{"id": "42397280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42397280", "title": "53rd Syedna succession controversy (Dawoodi Bohra)", "text": "53rd Syedna succession controversy (Dawoodi Bohra)\n\nThe 52nd Da'i al-Mutlaq of the Dawoodi Bohras, Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin, died in January 2014. As per the tenets of the sect each predecessor is required to nominate his successor prior to his death. His death sparked a succession crisis where two rival claimants emerged for the title of 53rd Dā'ī al-Mutlaq: his son, Mufaddal Saifuddin, and his half-brother, Khuzaima Qutbuddin, who was previously \"Mazoon\" (first assistant to the Dā'ī) of the Dawoodi Bohra.\n\nPrior to 2014, Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin suffered a stroke in a London on 1 June 2011 and on 4 June 2011, Mufaddal Saifuddin was named his successor. Following this, Mufaddal Saifuddin assumed this role as the successor and his appointment was welcomed by the Dawoodi Bohra community. In the Dawoodi Bohra Mithaq (oath of allegiance), Mufaddal Saifuddin's name was taken alongside Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin's. Together, Mohammed Burhanuddin and Mufaddal Saifuddin traveled the globe looking after the affairs of the community up until 2014.\n\nFollowing the Syedna's death, Mufaddal took up the office of Da'i al-Mutlaq, as per the appointment by Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin. Khuzaima Qutubuddin claiming to have been appointed heir 50 years earlier in secrecy, challenged Mufaddal's right to be Dai in court. He also took office as the 53rd Dā'ī of Dawoodi Bohras with two headquarters, the primary being in Darus Sakina in Thane and the other in Saifee Mahal where Mufaddal resides.\n\nThe challenge created a divide in the community with the vast majority aligning with Mufaddal Saifuddin whilst a small but not insignificant number aligned with Khuzaima Qutbuddin. Mufaddal Saifuddin assumed control of the Dawoodi Bohra administration and infrastructure. He is largely accepted as the Bohras' leader by government and other public bodies. The UK Charity Commission has stated in writing, that \"our view is that His Holiness Syedna Mufaddal Saifuddin is the current incumbent of the office of Dai al-Mutlaq.\"\n\nThe issue is also historic in the sense that similar case was put up in the court of Mughal emperor Akbar, in year 1591AD, where succession was challenged. There is also a unique case (Chandabhoy Galla Case) filed in the British time court in Mumbai, in 1917 and decided in 1921, where claim was based on modality of succession earlier done. In the both of these case challenger were defeated, Syedna Dawood Bin Qutubshah remained Dai in 1591AD and, ownership of the Chandabhoy Galla remained with Syedna Taher Saifuddin. \n\nMufaddal Saifuddin states that he has been appointed a number of times in presence of multiple witnesses. These incidences are:\nFor three years from 2011 to 2014 Mufaddal Saifuddin assumed the role of Syedna's successor. In the Dawoodi Bohra Mithaq (oath of allegiance), Mufaddal Saifuddin's name was taken alongside Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin's as the successor. Together, Mohammed Burhanuddin and Mufaddal Saifuddin traveled the globe looking after the affairs of the community up until Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin's death in 2014. Henceforth, he assumed the role of the 53rd Da'i al-Mutlaq.\n\nIn 2011 up to 2014, Khuzaima Qutbuddin and his family had publicly declared and congratulated Mufaddal Saifuddin as the successor. On a few occasions, Khuzaima Qutbuddin was seen participating in public gatherings seated below Mufaddal Saifuddin. Until the Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin's death, there wasn't any indication of objection from Khuzaima Qutbuddin.\n\nFollowing the Syedna's death in January 2014, Khuzaima Qutbuddin, who was the second in command to Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin, claimed the title of the 53rd Dā'ī l-Muṭlaq of the Dawoodi Bohras. Khuzaima Qutbuddin claims that Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin performed nass on him 49 years ago in 1965 a ritual during which he appointed him as his successor in private without any witnesses. Qutbuddin states that Syedna Burhanuddin told him that this was because otherwise, 'swords would be crossed'.\n\nThe rift between the two claimants started to appear even before the death of Burhanuddin, with followers of Khuzaima Qutbuddin rallying support for Khuzaima. A group formed in 2013 in support of Burhanuddin's half-brother Khuzaima Qutbuddin, who was Mazoon, serving second under Dai al Mutlaq. Khuzaima has denied formation of any separate sect by publishing a public affidavit.\n\nKhuzaima Qutbuddin died on 30 March 2016. On 31 March 2016 the family of Khuzaima Qutbuddin released a statement that Khuzaima Qutbuddin had conferred nass (announcement of successor) on his son Taher Fakhruddin.\n\nOn 4 June 2011 (corresponding to 3 Rajab al-Asab 1432H), His Holiness Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin gathered three of his sons (commonly referred to as Shehzadas), namely Qusai, Idris and Ammar; his daughter Husaina; son in law Dr Moiz, and grandson Abdul Qadir to his room at Cromwell Hospital. He made a declaration appointing his son Mufaddal Saifuddin as his successor, and instructed them to inform the Dawoodi Bohra community. Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin then summoned Mufaddal Saifuddin and his eldest son Qaidjoher Ezzuddin to Cromwell Hospital, where a short Majlis was held in Cromwell Hospital, Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin was congratulated on his appointment, drank sherbet and everyone present performed salaam to Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin and Mufaddal Saifuddin.\n\nThese sequence of events were cited in a Majlis held by Qaidjoher Ezzuddin in al Masjid ul Husseini in Northolt; London on 5 June 2011. The video of this Majlis was recorded and was broadcast on the same day in Dawoodi Bohra community centers worldwide. These events were also documented in an official report (Arabic: مثال) by the office of His Holiness, Alvazaratus Saifiyah. This document was published and distributed to entire Dawoodi Bohra community during the month of Radaman in 2011.\n\nKhuzaima Qutbuddin challenged this ascension and claimed that Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin was too ill to have spoken coherently, and medically unfit to move or drink sherbet.\n\nIn reply to these allegations, an audio recording of the appointment, and a video recording of the Majlis in Cromwell Hospital was shown to the entire Dawoodi Bohra community on 18 May 2014 (corresponding to 19 Rajab al Asab 1435H). This video confirmed Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin speaking coherently to his family, drinking sherbet and presiding over the Majlis, therefore affirming the events described by Qaidjoher Ezzuddin and the Alvazaratus Saifiyah document. Qutbuddin has not responded to this video.\n\nAt the time of Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin's stroke his sons, attendant physician and son-in-law, Dr Moiz bhaisaheb and surviving daughter were present in London with him along with other close family members. Neither Qutbuddin nor his family were present before or subsequently.\n\nThe medical report presented by Khuzaima Qutbuddin explicitly ruled out the possibility of the Syedna having any ability to coherently speak or move.\nThe review was done by Dr Daniel Mankens, chairman of Neurology Beaumont Hospital, Michigan. He writes, 'It is inconceivable that someone his age and with neurological deficits would have such a profound, yet transient recovery.' He goes on to say that 'family members usually report even the slightest improvement to medical staff. It surprises me that such an event would not be documented in the medical record, much less reported to the medical staff'. Based on this review report, Qutbuddin claimed that 'the succession was not done in London Hospital' as Mohammad Burhanuddin suffered from a 'full stroke at the age of 100 that made it difficult for him to write, speak, or move'.\n\nThe doctors behind these reports had never met nor treated Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin at any time and gave their opinions based on medical reports and the explanations provided by Khuzaima Qutbuddin.\n\nMeanwhile, the specialists who treated, attended to Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin and who actually wrote the medical reports do not agree with these opinions. Dr John Francis Costello; Consultant in Respiratory Medicine, and Neurologist Dr Omar Malik, both who had attended to Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin at Cromwell Hospital in London have stated, in writing, that His Holiness was capable of making the declaration and of conducting a ceremony, even though his speech was slurred. Further, Dr Costello stated that he believes the report provided by the USA doctor Dr Daniel Menkes is incorrect. He confirmed that his patient, Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin indeed did communicate his wishes on a variety of issues during his admission.\n\nOn 4 June, the day of the Nass in question, Dr Costello noted that there was evidence of continued improvement in Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin's health He confirmed that although he did not witness the said Nass, there was no doubt that Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin was able to effectively communicate his wishes whilst at Cromwell Hospital, particularly in his mother toungue Lisan al-Dawat.\n\nIn regards to His Holiness's intellective state, both Dr Costello and Dr Malik confirmed that he was of sound cognitive state, and that he was able to clearly communicate with his family and medical staff. In regards to the reports by the USA doctors, Dr Omar denied there was any evidence of a receptive speech problem. Dr Costello further expresses he felt a special connection with His Holiness as he often greet him with a smile of recognition, looked him in the eye, interacted in English, and even become lively at times.\n\nA year later in 2012, Dr Costello was invited on stage to meet Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin. In his medical report he notes that Syedna instantly smiled at him with recognition, and shook his hand for a lengthy time.\n\nThese reports were submitted in court in the sworn affidavit submitted by Shehzada Qaidjoher Ezzuddin the eldest son of Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin before the Bombay High Court.\n\nOn 8 June 2011, Dr John Francis Costello noted improvements in His Holiness's health and there were discussions about his wishes to travel to Mumbai for to attend the death anniversary of his father Syedna Taher Saifuddin which was to be held on 20 June 2011. By 15 June 2011, there was further improvement. Dr John Francis Costello approved of sending His Holiness to Mumbai in an air ambulance as it was deemed safe and appropriate. On this day, Dr Costello recalls having a short coherent conversation in English with His Holiness about his journey to Mumbai. On 17 June 2011, His Holiness was discharged from Cromwell Hospital and traveled to Mumbai, as planned, in an air ambulance. These sequence of events, His Holiness's wishes to travel and the doctor's approval are of paramount significance because the group loyal to Qutbuddin allege that His Holiness was forced to travel against his own will despite suffering a stroke. Dr Costello's letter proves otherwise.\n\nA ceremony was arranged in Raudat Tahera Mumbai on 20 June 2011 (corresponding to 19th Rajab 1432H) to declare Mufaddal Saifuddin as the Dā'ī. The entire ceremony was recorded and was broadcast on the same day to Dawoodi Bohra community centers worldwide. This video was posted by Qutbuddin's website and re-posted by another Youtube user. Images of this ceremony are also available online.\n\nFrom 2011 up to 2014, Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin, despite his stroke, went on pilgrimages, traveled across India, overseas, and presided over many community gatherings.\n\nIn 1432H, He presided over the Eid al-Fitr Majlis with Mufaddal Saifuddin seated besides him. Following the Ramadan of 2011 (1432H), Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin went on a pilgrimage to Karbala, Najaf and Cairo.\n\nIn the Hijri year of 1433H (November 2011), Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin held the Muharram gatherings in Mumbai. On 2 Muharram Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin conducted the first sermon, and presided over every Majlis at night until Ashura of 1432H. Following this, he traveled to Galiakot to the on a pilgrimage to the mausoleum of Syedi Fakhruddin Shaheed. There he performed the opening of the new Mosque of Partapur, Rajasthan on 28 Muharram 1433. In the month of Safar he went on a pilgrimage to Hasanpeer. There, on 4 Safar he performed the opening of the new Masjid in Rampura and named it Mohammedi Masjid. He then traveled to Ahmedabad for Chehlum, where Mufaddal Saifuddin presided over the sermons. During this visit, his son Huzaifa Mohyuddin died in Ahmedabad, and the funneral rites were carried out by Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin and Mufaddal Saifuddin. On 18 Jan 2012, Narendra Modi visited the Syedna in Ahmedabad to offer his condolences. On 20 January 2012, (26 Safar 1433H), he laid the foundation of the Qutbi Mazaar Development Project in Ahmedabad. He then visited Dongam on 27 Safar 1433H.\n\nOn 6 Rabi' al-awwal 1433H, he traveled to Pune where he was welcomed by a large gathering. On the 10th of Rabi' al-awwal the Chief Minister of Madhya Pradesh Hon. Mr. Shivraj Singh Chouhan accompanied by other Govt Officials met the Syedna and expressed their condolences on the death of Shahzada Huzaifa Mohiyuddin. On 4 February 2012, on Milad al-Nabi day in Pune, her presided over the Majlis seated above Mufaddal Saifuddin for 3 hours, listening to his entire sermon. On 4 Rabi' al-thani, he presided over the Milad Majlis in Saifee Masjid Mumbai, as Mufaddal Saifuddin conducted the sermons seated besides him.\n\nOn 12 March 2012, on the eve of Syedna's 101st birthday, he presided over the birthday celebrations and procession with Narendra Modi seated besides him. The following day, he presided over the Majlis while Mufaddal Saifuddin conducted the sermons seated besides him. In 1433H (August 2012) Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin presided over the Eid al-Fitr Majlis with Mufaddal Saifuddin seated besides him.\n\nOn 19 June 2012 (30 Rajab 1433H), Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin traveled to London. On 11 Sha'ban 1433H (30 June 2012), Asif Ali Zardari called on the Syedna and visited him at Masjid ul HusseiniLondon. In a public congregation at Masjid ul Husseini London on 14 July 2012, Dr Costello was invited on stage to meet Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin. In his medical report he notes that Syedna instantly smiled at him with recognition, and shook his hand for a lengthy time.\n\nIn the Hijri year of 1434H (November 2012), Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin held the Muharram gatherings in Surat. On 27 November 2012 (14 Moharram 1434H), he held the Nikah ceremony of community members in the Rasme Saify ceremony in Surat. In Mumbai, on 27 May 2013 (18 Rajab 1434H) he presided over the death anniversary of Syedna Taher Saifuddin and the final day examinations of Al Jamea tus Saifiyah.\n\nIn the Hijri year of 1435H (November 2013), Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin held the Muharram gatherings in Mumbai. For 10 days, Mufaddal Saifuddin conducted the sermons during the day, and the Syedna would preside over the Majlis at night. On the day of Ashura the Syedna presided over the sermons conducted by Mufaddal Saifuddin.\n\nOn 12 January 2014, he presided over the Majlis of Milad al-Nabi in Raudat Tahera, Mumbai. This was the Syedna's last public gathering before his death five days later on 17 January 2014.\n\nMufaddal Saifuddin assumed this role as the successor of Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin and his appointment was welcomed by the Dawoodi Bohra community. Together, Mohammed Burhanuddin and Mufaddal Saifuddin undertook the leadership after the affairs of the community.\n\nOn 9 June 2011, then Chief Minister of Gujarat, Narendra Modi congratulated Mufaddal Saifuddin on his succession. On 15 June 2011 the office of Syenda Mohammed Burhanuddin, The Alvazaratus Saifiyah instructed Dawoodi Bohras to take Mufaddal Saifuddin's name alongside Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin's as the successor in their Mithaq (oath of allegiance).\n\nA month later, in Sha'ban, Mufaddal Saifuddin led the examinations of Al Jamea tus Saifiyah on behalf of Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin. During the month of Ramadan and Eid al-Fitr, Saifuddin led the community prayers and Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin presided over the Eid al-Fitr Majlis with Mufaddal Saifuddin seated besides him. Following the Ramadan of 2011 (1432H), Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin went on a pilgrimage to Karbala, Najaf and Cairo.\n\nIn the Hijri year of 1433H (November 2011), Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin held the Muharram gatherings in Mumbai. On 2 Muharram Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin conducted the first sermon and instructed Mufaddal Saifuddin to conduct the remaining nine sermons until Ashura seated besides him.\n\nOn 4 January 2012, on Milad al-Nabi day in Pune, as his successor Mufaddal Saifuddin conducted the sermon on behalf of Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin. Syedna Burhanuddin sat besides him for 3 hours listening to Saifuddin's entire sermon. On 12 March 2012, on the eve of Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin's 101st birthday. Narendra Modi attended the birthday celebrations and procession besides Syedna Mohammed Burhanudin and Mufaddal Saifuddin. The following day, as the successor, Mufaddal Saifuddin conducted the sermons with Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin seated on the stage besides him. On 4 Rabi' al-thani, he conducted the sermons of the Milad Majlis in Saifee Masjid Mumbai, with Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin seated besides him. On 1 April 2012, he conducted the sermon and Majlis of Fatima Al Zahra on 10 Jumada al-awwal 1433H in Surat. On 9 Rajab1433H (29 May 2012), he led annual examinations of Al Jamea tus Saifiyah on behalf of Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin in Saify Mahal, Mumbai. On 15 June 2012, Mufaddal Saifuddin traveled to Indore and was received with a rousing welcome as Syedna's successor.\n\nDuring the month of Ramadan 1433H (August 2012) and Eid al-Fitr, Saifuddin led the community prayers and Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin presided over the Eid al-Fitr Majlis with Mufaddal Saifuddin seated besides him. Following that, Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin appointed Mufaddal Saifuddin as the Amir al-hajj for the Hajj pilgrimage on 14 October 2012 (29 Zil Qadah 1433H).\n\nIn the Hijri year of 1434H (November 2012), Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin held the Muharram gatherings in Surat. Mufaddal Saifuddin to conducted ten sermons until Ashura with Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin seated besides him.\n\nMufaddal Saifuddin then traveled to many cities within India Yemen, Ethiopia, South Africa, Tanzania, Kenya, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Kuwait, UAE - where he was welcomed as the Syedna's successor by the community and Government officials. There he held numerous sermons, religious and community gatherings.\n\nSyedna Mohammed Burhanuddin's 102nd birthday celebrations were held in Mumbai. The Syedna presided over the Majlis on 1 March 2013, and Mufaddal Saifuddin conducted the sermon on 2 March 2013. Mufaddal Saifuddin's first official correspondence as successor was in May 2013 during the celebration of Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin's Golden Jubilee, in which he instructed the community to set out on religious pilgrimages. In the month of Rajab of 2013, he conducted the annual examinations of Al Jamea tus Saifiyah on behalf of Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin.\n\nIn the Hijri year of 1435H (November 2013), Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin held the Muharram gatherings in Mumbai. For 10 days, Mufaddal Saifuddin conducted the sermons during the day, and Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin would preside over the Majlis at night. On the day of Ashura Mufaddal Saifuddin conducted the Ashura sermon seated besides Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin.\n\nOn 23 December 2013, Mufaddal Saifuddin traveled to Udaipur to conduct the sermons of Chehlum 1435H. A video recording of this sermons was broadcast in community centers worldwide on 16 January 2014.\n\nKhuzaima Qutbuddin and his family had even publicly declared and congratulated Mufaddal Saifuddin as the successor. On a few occasions, Khuzaima Qutbuddin was seen participating in public gatherings seated below Mufaddal Saifuddin. Until the Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin's death, there wasn't any indication of objection from Khuzaima Qutbuddin.\n\nSyedna Mohammed Burhanuddin died on 17 January 2014 (corresponding to 16 Rabi al Awwal 1435H) in Mumbai, India.\n\nMufaddal Saifuddin, who had already been publicly appointed and accepted as the successor, assumed the position of the 53rd Da'i al-Mutlaq of the Dawoodi Bohra community. Saifuddin was in Colombo at the time and immediately traveled to Mumbai via Chennai. He conducted his first Jumu'ah Salah in Sri Lanka and arrived in Saify Mahal, Mumbai that evening to conduct and lead the Janaza and funeral rites. Khuzaima Qutbuddin, who at the time was already in Saify Mahal, Mumbai, left for his residence in Thane prior to Mufaddal Saifuddin's arrival. Mufaddal Saifuddin led the Janaza rites throughout the night. and thousands of mourners attended the funeral on Saturday 18 January 2016 led by Mufaddal Saifuddin.\n\nOn the morning of Saturday 18 January, as the Janaza left Saify Mahal en route to Raudat Tahera for burial, Khuzaima Qutbuddin sent out an email campaign to Dawoodi Bohra Community members attaching a PDF letter addressed to Mufaddal Saifuddin stating his claim. That evening, around 36 hours after Syedna's death, Qutbuddin posted a YouTube video of himself on his website claiming that he was the 53rd Da'i al-Mutlaq, having been appointed in total secrecy in 1965.\n\nOn 20 January 2016, Khuzaima Qutbuddin's name was removed Dawoodi Bohra from all official community records as the Mazoon. Following that, on 24 January 2016, Khuzaima Qutbuddin issued a Public Notice claiming that he was the sole Trustee of all the Wakfs/Trusts of the Dawoodi Bohra Community.\n\nOn 30 January 2016, thousands of Dawoodi Bohras gathered at Azad Maidan, Mumbai in support of Mufaddal Saifuddin as the 53rd Da'i al-Mutlaq, pledged their allegiance to him and dissociated from the breakaway faction formed by Khuzaima Qutbuddin. Mufaddal's elder brother Qaidjoher Ezzuddin stated that \"nass was performed on Mufaddal not once but a number of times\". Similarly peace marches were organised in community centers worldwide where resolutions were signed and handed over to Government officials. A number of prominent personalities offered their condolences to Mufaddal Saifuddin as Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin's son and successor. These personalities include Sheikh Khalifa bin Zayed Al Nahyan, Sheikh Mohammed bin Rashid Al Maktoum, Narendra Modi, Mahinda Rajapaksa, Nawaz Sharif, Uhuru Kenyatta, Cardinal Oswald Gracias, Mohammad Hamid Ansari, Manmohan Singh, Sonia Gandhi, Salman Khurshid, Ministers, Members of Parliament, Consulates, representatives of religious communities, prominent citizens, professionals and intellectuals.\n\nIn April 2014, Khuzaima Qutbuddin filed action in the Mumbai High Court against the succession of Mufaddal Saifuddin.\n\nIn January 2014, Qutbuddin published a public affidavit on his website declaring his position and legal status of properties, claiming to be the sole trustee of all the trusts in the Dawoodi Bohra community. Qutbuddin filed petitions against Saiffudin concerning the succession controversy in Bombay High court and Gujrat High Court. Khuzaima published a public affidavit on his website declaring his position and legal status of properties\n\nThe late Syedna's half-brother Qutbuddin went to the High Court claiming the position of 53rd and to restrict Saifuddin from discharging the duties as the 53rd Dā'ī. The prime contention of the 700-page petition to the High Court was to have Qutbuddin, the half-brother, legally declared as the 53rd Dā'ī al-Mutlaq of the 1.2-million-strong Bohra community, while simultaneously preventing his nephew, Mufaddal Saifuddin, from acting as the Dā'ī.\n\nJustice SJ Kathawala of the Bombay High Court recused himself from hearing the suit filed by Qutbuddin as he had appeared for the late Syedna in the past, creating a conflict of interest. The Lawyers appearing for Saifuddin had no objection to Justice SJ Kathawala from hearing the suit, however Qutbuddin's lawyer Mr Kadam requested the judge to recuse himself from the case. This delayed the suit before being placed before Justice Gautam Patel at the High Court.\n\nQutbuddin sought relief including entry to Saify Mahal, the house of the community leader,filed a 700-page suit asking the court to restrain Mufaddal Saifuddin to act as the Da'i al-Mutlaq. In reply to the suit, defendant Mufaddal Saifuddin filed a detailed 494-page affidavit on 23 April 2014. Justice Gautam Patel said it would be better to hold the trial rather than decide on interim relief. The Bombay High Court later agreed that it is willing to conduct a speedy, day-to-day trial\n\nIn September 2014, the court had framed issues in the matter, where each side will have to prove he was conferred valid nass, or the official declaration of succession. The matter was then fixed for 11 December 2014, to determine the admissibility of the documents placed on record by both sides. The issues framed on 15 September 2014 in Suit No. 336 of 2014 were:\nThe case began with the new judge asking Qutbuddin, what requirements had to be fulfilled for \"pronouncing a Syedna's successor\", such as witnesses, publicity and acceptance by the community. He also asked Qutbuddin to spell out what he did to establish his right as the spiritual head since 2011 when his nephew was publicly pronounced the successor by the late Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin. This followed a reply from Saifuddin's attorney and the late Syedna's eldest son Qaidjoher Ezzuddin, which contested Qutbuddin's claim.\nOn behalf of Mufaddal Saifuddni, Ezzuddin stated that there was \"overwhelming evidence\" that Saifuddin was chosen by the late Dai to be his successor and between 2011 when he was appointed the successor and in January 2014 when the 52nd Dai passed away - Saifuddin \"operated within the community as the successor designate\". Also, after his father's demise, Saifuddin was given misaq (oath of allegiance) by 500 Jamaats all over the world and high dignitaries.\n\n\"As per court proceedings, Qutbuddin's lawyer pointed out that Saifuddin's earlier pleading of succession was only referring the pronouncement done in year 2011 at London hospital, but after demise of late Syedna, now the case is put up in different way and now it refers that pronouncements were 'made in 1969, 1994 and 2005 and only reconfirmation was done in 2011'.\"\n\nQutbuddin alleged that \"[s]ince 1980, defendant (Saifuddin) and his family implemented a devious scheme to malign him\" Justice Patel declined Kadam's plea to pass an order for access to Qutbuddin to his office in Saify Mahal and his apartment at Al Azhar. \"They say they are not preventing you,\" said Justice Patel.\n\nThe cross examination of Qutbuddin commenced on 27 April 2015. with Qutbuddin taking to the witness box eight times until his death.\n\n1) 27 April 2015: Qutbuddin claimed that there were indications of support from his siblings, however none of his 20 siblings openly supported him, nor did they give their Mithaq to him.\n\nSaifuddin's counsel Iqbal Chagla questioned Qutbuddin on the meaning of various terminologies used in the community and degrees for knowledge of scriptures awarded by Al Jamea tus Saifiyah and conferred by the Dai. Qutbuddin admitted to being conferred the degree of \"Al Aleem Al Bare\" (The Outstanding Scholar) by his father, Syedna Taher Saifuddin but denied he was conferred any degree by his late brother Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin. This was to bring forth his knowledge of Islamic studies and degrees being conferred by the principal of the Dawoodi Bohra community's educational institute. Qutbuddin also told the court that the highest title is the \"Umdat al Ulama al Muwahhadeen\" (support of unparalleled scholar), which was given to Burhanuddin by the 51st dai.\n\nQutbuddin claimed that he did not challenge Saifuddin's claims at the time because he (Qutbuddin) had been asked to maintain his appointment in confidence by Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin. He prayed and hoped that \"Syedna Burhanuddin Saheb would recover and set the position right in the manner he deemed appropriate\".\n\n2) 28 April 2015: Qutbuddin admitted to being informed that a \"majlis\" was to be held on 6 June 2011 at Saifee Masjid and the reason for it. When asked what the reason for the \"majlis\" was, Qutbuddin replied,\"The majlis was because His Holiness' health was not good and an announcement was to be made of the alleged nass conferred on the defendant (Saifuddin).\" He admitted to drinking the celebratory sherbat offered. \"That was routine,<nowiki>\"</nowiki> said Qutbuddin. When asked if the majlis had been convened for condolence, would sherbat have been offered, he replied,\"No.<nowiki>\"</nowiki> He added that the \"majlis\" was not a condolence meeting. \"I did, in fact, pray for the long life of the Syedna,<nowiki>\"</nowiki> he said.\n\nQutbuddin also said that two attempts were made to kill him; first in Indore during Muharram and the second in Yemen, however, he named no suspects, nor dates, in court.\n\n3) 29 July 2015: Qutbuddin said that he was referred to as \"al Walad al Ahabb,\" meaning the 'beloved son'. According to him, this carried the meaning that he was the successor. Counsel Iqbal Chagla, however, suggested to him that one Hussain Dawoodbhai of Sri Lanka was also referred to as \"al Walad al Ahabb\". Qutbuddin alleged that the meaning may be the same but the context was different.\n\nQutbuddin also confirmed that shortly after Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin's sroke in 2011, he had called Qaidjoher Ezzuddin in London to wish the Syedna and his successor.\n\n4) - 31 July 2015: Qutbuddin told Court he was very hurt at being prevented from visiting Raudat Tahera. Chagla asked him if there has been a single instance when he was prevented. Qutbuddin replied that he had sent his sons to visit the mausoleum a few months ago. \"They were actually beaten and pushed away.<nowiki>\"</nowiki> he said. But Chagla asked, \"Have you personally been prevented from visiting the Raudat Tahera?<nowiki>\"</nowiki>. He replied \"I did not go because my security advised me not to do so.\". When Chagla asked if the statement that he was prevented from visiting is incorrect, Qutbuddin said, \"I don<nowiki>'t agree. I stand by my statement.\"</nowiki> \n\nCounsel Iqbal Chagla, showed several documents to Qutbuddin and sought his reply on whether those were written by the 52nd Dai and whether he recognized it. To some he accepted and to some he replied in the negative or sought to study them.\n\n5) - 3 Aug 2015: Qutbuddin claimed that even his father, Syedna Taher Saifuddin, had viewed him as a successor. In an earlier hearing, he alleged that Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin had appointed him as the \"Mazoon\" and gave a sermon, at that time he said 'I was a beloved son', and this carried the meaning that he was his successor. He again reiterated the same thing by saying that it is correct that his appointment as Mazoon was done in a public sermon by the 52nd Dai.\n\n6) - 4 Aug 2015: Qutbuddin was asked about the exact phrase used by Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin in his sermon on 10 Dec 1965 and when according to him, he said that you are his beloved son? Qutbuddin replied, \"Al-waladul-ahabb.\" Chagla asked him whether the translation of Al-walad ul-ahabb meant \"the\" beloved son or \"my\" beloved son. Qutbuddin maintained it meant \"my\" beloved son. He was then shown paragraph 28 (a) at page 64 of his plaint where it stated \"my [lit. 'the'] beloved son\". Qutbuddin was questioned as to what the meaning of [lit. 'the'] was and whether he agreed that the meaning of the phrase was in fact \"the\" beloved son. Qutbuddin said that he was confused as to why he said \"my\" when the translation provided by his son in the plaint stated the words \"[lit. 'the']\". When asked whether the translation done in the plaint was incorrect, he said he was confused. Around more than 400 questions were asked in which the examination centered around the sermon of 52nd Dai which mentioned the word \"beloved son\".\n\n7) 24 Aug 2015: Chagla asked Qutbuddin whether Mufaddal Saifuddin and his brothers were his pupils in matters of \"spiritual guidance \". He replied, \"Not regularly. But only once in a while\". When asked how often, he replied, \"They were regular during one period of time but not later.\" He said Burhanuddin sent his sons to him and this was for about ten years during his reign. While he could not remember the exact period they were his pupils, Qutbuddin added that they came to him from the time of his father, the 51st Dai.\n\nQutbuddin later stated that \"if not all then many\" persons of higher spiritual value knew he was made the \"mansoos\" (successor) and even offered him \"sajda\" (prostration). He alleged that Saifuddin and his brothers used to offer him \"sajda\". When asked whether \"sajda\" (physical prostration) could be offered to a person other than a dai, Qutbuddin said, \"Sajda is offered only to a dai or the mansoos or to a person known as one who will succeed the dai.\" \"I remember my sisters would sometimes do so (offer him sajda). I do not remember if my brothers did it\".\n\n8) 25 Aug 2015: Qutbuddin stated that in the last years of his life, late Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin was not as mentally alert as he used to be. When advocate Iqbal Chagla asked whether Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin was in full control of his mental and physical faculties till the end, Qutbuddin answered, \"I felt and believed that his health had deteriorated during the last two and a half years of his life.\" He said Syedna Burhanuddin was \"unable to function and carry out his activities as before.\"\n\nThe hearings were later fixed from 22 April to 2 May 2016, however, after Khuzaima Qutbuddin's death on 30 March 2016, the Bombay High Court cancelled these two dates.\n\nAccording to Indian law, upon the death of a plaintiff a suit will not abate immediately upon death but rather after 90 days if no action is taken by the legal heirs or representatives of the plaintiff. As Fakhruddin intends to continue the case, it is likely that such an application would be made and the case would not abate. Accordingly, Justice Patel also said if Fakhruddin decides that he would like to be substituted as plaintiff he will have to file a chamber summons to set aside the abatement of the suit, and that \"Nobody requires an order that that the suit has abated\".\nOn 4 July 2016, Taher Fakhruddin reported that he has written a letter to Mufaddal Saifuddin in which he mentions that he has filed a Chamber Summons in the Bombay High Court as the plaintiff in place of his late father Khuzaima Qutbuddin.\n\nA senior counsel commented that the Da'i al-Mutlaq is not a hereditary title that can be passed on from a father to a son; it’s an appointment that is made. This is the basis on which Khuzaima Qutbuddin had challenged the naming of Mufaddal Saifuddin as the 53rd Syedna. Taher Fakhruddin will have to prove that his father had been appointed as the Syedna, and only then can he claim the same. On 7 March 2017, Justice Gautam Patel allowed Taher Fakhruddin's plea to be substituted as plaintiff in this suit, stating that although Taher Fakhruddin was free to file a separate suit, including him in the current suit would save judicial time, money and valuable amounts of paper. The matter was set for direction on 25 April 2017. The court then fixed the dates of 8, 11 and 12 December 2017 for the cross examination of Taher Fakhruddin.\n\nThe cross examination of Taher Fakhruddin commenced on 8 December 2017.\n\n8 December 2017: Anand Desai appeared for Taher Fakhruddin. The petitioner submits letters as evidence. Examination-in-chief of Fakhruddin, Anand Desai cross examined Fakhruddin aasking him the function of the \"mazoon mutlaq\" and \"mukasir\", to which he replied that \"\"Mazoon\" administers the oath to the believers, shows them the position of the Dai\" and the \"\"mukasir\" does what the Dai wants them to do and that they don't have absolute authority\". On the subject of \"nass\", Fakhruddin said there was no one prescribed method, but there must be a clear communication of \"nass\" in the form of a direct statement by the preceding dai to the one he confers the nass, or there must be an indication from the Dai. He further claimed that no witnesses were needed during \"nass,\" and there were historical precedents for a private \"nass\". He stated that a \"nass\" is irrevocable and final, \"It can't be changed or superseded\". He was also asked as to what happens when a successor passes away before the dai. He added that 6th Dai told 7th dai who to appoint as 8th Dai; and the 28th Dai appointed the 29th Dai in accordance with the wishes of the 27th Dai.\n\n22 March 2018: Justice Gautam Patel commented on what appeared to be contradictions between Taher Fakhruddin's written submissions and his court testimony in regard to Taher Fakhruddin's statementsthat Queen Arwa al-Sulayhi was 'to be the single witness to the nass he conferred via the Sijil-ul-Bisharat.' This contradiction was pointed out three times, following which Justice Patel expressed his impatience with the slow pace of this case into its fourth year.\n\nGujarat High Court issued an interim order on 16 April 2014 prohibiting Saifuddin from acting as the 53rd Dā'ī and his supporters from dealing with the trust properties. Khuzaima filed eight writ petitions before Gujarat High Court pertaining to the succession controversy. This order was rescinded to allow Mufaddal Saifuddin full control over and use of all properties in Gujarat, provided that as the sole trustee, nothing is done to degenerate the value of the trust, effectively allowing him to operate as the 53rd Dai, but without granting such recognition. This situation was to remain pending the outcome of the Bombay High Court.\n\nIn May 2014, Khuzaima Qutbuddin approached the UK Charity Commission claiming that there was no valid appointee as the Da'i al-Mutlaq. On 15 August 2014, the UK Charity Commission altered their position in favour of Mufaddal Saifuddin. The Commission established that there is someone in office, albeit that their position is being challenged. They also stated in writing, that \"our view is therefore that His Holiness Syedna Mufaddal Saifuddin is the current incumbent of the office of Dai al-Mutlaq.\" They further stated that Mufaddal Saifuddin can continue to administer the Charity until the outcome of the Bombay High Court case is known.\n\n\n\nThe Progressive Dawoodi Bohra took a neutral stance in wake of the succession controversy, citing dubious claims of both the would-be successors and the wealth accumulated by the late Syedna's family. The Progressives' Central Board warned the claimants that they would be \"consigned to the dustbins of history\" if they do not adapt and act more fairly. Several community members interviewed welcomed the court action as they looked forward to corruption in the community being exposed.\n\n\"The Times of India\" reported that \"most Dawoodi Bohra back Syedna Burhanuddin's second son, Syedna Mufadda Saifuddin, and hold him as its 53rd spiritual leader\". There were reports that some Bohras who support Qutbuddin have been forced to swear allegiance to Saifuddin through social isolation and threats of divorce between married couples. A cover story on the Bohra survey revealed that most Bohras (46%) support Khuzaima over Mufaddal and many are in the community due to fear and force \n\nHowever, the neutrality of this survey poll has been disputed citing reasons that it was carried out by an anonymous group, where the majority of the respondents were not Bohras, and it did not get any statistics from the Dawoodi Bohra head office in Mumbai. The survey was carried out by 399 respondents (0.0004% of community) from which a majority of respondents did not belong to the Dawoodi Bohra community, thus questioning the bias and validity of the report. Further, the article that was published in the Hindustan Times and the Mumbai Mirror had contradictory results with glaring dissimilarities among poll statistics, whereas the same media outlets had previously published that hundreds of thousands had gathered in support of Mufaddal Saifuddin, once again questioning the validity of the survey.\n"}
{"id": "11464332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11464332", "title": "Anti-money laundering software", "text": "Anti-money laundering software\n\nAnti-Money Laundering (AML) Software is software used in the finance and legal industries to meet the legal requirements for financial institutions and other regulated entities to prevent or report money laundering activities. There are four basic types of software that address anti-money laundering:\ntransaction monitoring systems, currency transaction reporting (CTR) systems, customer identity management systems and compliance management software.\n\nAnti-money laundering guidelines came into prominence globally after the September 11, 2001 attacks and the subsequent enactment of the USA PATRIOT Act in the United States and the establishment of the Financial Action Task Force on Money Laundering (FATF). By 2010 many jurisdictions globally required financial institutions to monitor, investigate and report transactions of a suspicious nature to the financial intelligence unit in their respective country.\n\nAn entire industry developed around providing software to analyze transactions in an attempt to identify transactions or patterns of transactions, called structuring, which requires a SAR filing, or other suspicious patterns that qualify for SAR reporting. Financial institutions faced penalties for failing to properly file CTR and SAR reports, including heavy fines and regulatory restrictions, even to the point of charter revocation.\n\nThere are four basic types of software addressing AML business requirements:\n\nThese software applications effectively monitor bank customer transactions on a daily basis and, using customer historical information and account profile, provide a \"whole picture\" to the bank management. Transaction monitoring can include cash deposits and withdrawals, wire transfers and ACH activity. In the bank circles, these applications are known as \"AML software\".\n\nEach vendor's software works somewhat differently. Some of the modules which should be present in an AML software are:\n\nThe definition for Customer Identity Management Systems varies in different regions and jurisdictions. Most vendors include the following features in their solutions:\n\nThere are solutions based on artificial intelligence, which are characterized by much better efficiency in detecting money laundering, comparing to rule-based approach. Especially, deep neural networks are able to discover complex interdependencies between various activities performed to launder money. This translates into fewer false alarms and more accurate detection. In the near future, transaction monitoring systems will be based on machine learning rather than on rules and scenarios.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57218270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57218270", "title": "Behest loan", "text": "Behest loan\n\nThe term behest loan refers to a loan granted to individuals or corporations favored by a powerful government official despite their lack of qualifications to receive such a loan. It is a mechanism for graft and political corruption particularly used in authoritarian regimes, where financial institutions such as banks are placed under intense pressure to approve such loans \"at the behest\" of high officials. The term has historically been most associated with the cronies of former Philippine president Ferdinand Marcos, although other officials have also been accused of engaging in the practice. \n"}
{"id": "43632326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43632326", "title": "Brenner v. Scott", "text": "Brenner v. Scott\n\nIn Brenner v. Scott and its companion case, Grimsley v. Scott, a U.S. district court found Florida's constitutional and statutory same-sex marriage bans unconstitutional. On August 21, 2014, the court issued a preliminary injunction that prevents that state from enforcing its bans and then stayed its injunction until stays are lifted in the three same-sex marriage cases then petitioning for a writ of certiorari in the U.S. Supreme Court–\"Bostic\", \"Bishop\", and \"Kitchen\"–and for 91 days thereafter. When the district court's preliminary injunction took effect on January 6, 2015, enforcement of Florida's bans on same-sex marriage ended.\n\nThe state defendants appealed to the Eleventh Circuit Court of Appeals, where it was styled \"Brenner v. Armstrong\".\n\nCivil rights attorneys Bill Sheppard (Sheppard, White, Kachergus, & DeMaggio P.A) and Sam Jacobson (Bledsoe, Jacobson, Schmidt, Wright, & Wilkinson) filed \"Brenner v. Scott\" on behalf of a Leon County, Florida, same-sex couple seeking to have their Canadian marriage recognized by the state. Both plaintiffs in this case are state employees; James Brenner works for the state forest service and Charles Jones works in the state department of education. They complained of being unable to designate each other as a spouse in the state retirement benefits program because of Florida's nonrecognition of and refusal to license same-sex marriage. A second couple (Steven Schlairet & Ozzie Russ) were added to the Brenner suit on March 16, 2014. Steven is a retired hospital administrator, and Ozzie manages a local fast food restaurant. This couple sought to obtain a marriage license from the Washington County Court House, in Chipley, Florida. As a result of the Clerk of Courts' refusal to issue the marriage license to this couple, they joined the Brenner lawsuit.\n\nCivil rights attorneys and the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU) filed \"Grimsley v. Scott\" on behalf of South Florida-based LGBT-advocacy group SAVE and eight same-sex couples seeking recognition of their marriages legally established in other jurisdictions.\n\nBoth cases were filed in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Florida and assigned to U.S. District Judge Robert Lewis Hinkle. \"Brenner\" was initially filed on February 28, 2014, and \"Grimsley\" on March 13, 2014. Each case names Florida Governor Rick Scott as the lead defendant. On April 21, 2014, Judge Hinkle ordered the \"Brenner\" and \"Grimsley\" cases consolidated for case-management purposes, though they remain separate on the docket.\n\nOn August 21, 2014, Judge Hinkle issued a ruling in \"Brenner\" and \"Grimsley\" that granted the same-sex couple plaintiffs' motion for a preliminary injunction. In ordering the injunction, Judge Hinkle found that Florida's statutory and constitutional bans on same-sex marriage were unconstitutional:\n\nJudge Hinkle added:\nJudge Hinkle's injunction ordered the Secretary of the Florida Department of Management Services and the Florida Surgeon General \"and their officers, agents, servants, employees, and attorneys\" to cease enforcing Florida's ban on same-sex marriage. It also ordered the Clerk of Court of Washington County to issue a marriage license to two of the plaintiffs. He issued a temporary stay of his preliminary injunction, pending resolution of the three same-sex marriage cases that were then petitioning for a writ of certiorari before the U.S. Supreme Court, and for 91 days thereafter: \"Bostic v. Schaefer\", \"Bishop v. Smith\", and \"Kitchen v. Herbert\". He also removed the governor and attorney general as defendants.\n\nIn a separate part of his injunction, which he did not stay, he ordered the state to revise the death certificate of Carol Goldwasser to include the name of her wife, Arlene Goldberg, one of the plaintiffs. They had married in New York in 2011.\n\nOn October 7, 2014, following the U.S. Supreme Court's rejection the previous day of \"certiorari\" in \"Bostic\", \"Bishop\", and \"Kitchen\", the Brenner and Grimsley plaintiffs filed separate motions asking Judge Hinkle to lift his stay before the 91-day period under the original order expired. The state defendants indicated that they object to lifting the stay. Judge Hinkle rejected that request on November 5, and on November 19 the state asked the Eleventh Circuit to extend Hinkle's stay pending appeal. An Eleventh Circuit panel of Frank Hull, Charles Wilson, and Adalberto Jordan denied that request on December 3.\n\nOn December 15, the state asked Justice Clarence Thomas, as Circuit Justice for the Eleventh Circuit, to stay Hinkle's preliminary injunction. Attorney General Pam Bondi based her request on the need to maintain statewide uniformity, noting Hinkle's injunction was directed to just one of Florida's sixty-seven clerks of court. Justice Thomas referred the request to the full court which, on December 19, rejected Florida's request with Justices Scalia and Thomas dissenting for the record.\n\nOn December 23, the Washington County Clerk of Court, whom Hinkle's injunction ordered to issue a marriage license to one of the plaintiff couples, filed an emergency request asking Hinkle if she was also required to issue marriage licenses to all qualified same-sex couples once his injunction took effect. On December 24, Judge Hinkle issued an order in which he noted that his injunction applied to the Secretary of the Department of Management Services, the Surgeon General, \"and their officers, agents, servants, employees, and attorneys—and others in active concert or participation with any of them\". He gave the Secretary until December 29 to explain whether he believes the injunction as written applies to each court clerk. Two briefs for the plaintiff same-sex couples told the court that all Florida clerks of court act \"in concert\" with the state defendants, that the statute that penalizes a clerk for issuing a marriage license to a same-sex couple was unenforceable because it was based on the statute the court ruled unconstitutional, and that the court could extend its order to cover all Florida clerks if necessary. In the brief for the Secretary of DMS, Attorney General Bondi said the court could make its order more specific and that a clerk is an \"independent constitutional officer\" not subject to the Secretary. An amicus brief filed by Florida Family Action said that the injunction as written applied to one clerk and that the district court lacked jurisdiction to modify it since the case had been appealed. On January 1, 2015, Judge Hinkle explained the scope of his injunction, writing that the Constitution rather than his order authorizes all Florida clerks to issue licenses to same-sex couples and that while clerks are free to interpret his ruling differently they should anticipate lawsuits if they fail to issue such licenses.\n\nIn response, the law firm advising the Florida Association of Court Clerks reversed its earlier position and recommended that all clerks issue marriage licenses to same-sex couples. Between the time of Judge Hinkle's decision and its implementation, clerks in thirteen counties–Baker, Calhoun, Clay, Duval, Franklin, Holmes, Jackson, Liberty, Okaloosa, Pasco, Santa Rosa, Wakulla, and Washington–announced they would issue such licenses but no longer provide courthouse wedding services to avoid having to officiate at the wedding of a same-sex couple.\n\nHinkle's stay expired on January 6, 2015, and same-sex marriage became legal throughout Florida.\n\nWith Scott removed as a defendant, Dr. John H. Armstrong, the state's Surgeon General and Secretary of Health became the lead defendant and the case \"Brenner v. Armstrong\". He and the remaining defendants appealed to the Eleventh U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals. All briefings were completed in December 2014 when the state declined its right to reply to the plaintiffs. On February 4, 2015, the Eleventh Circuit Court of Appeals put its same-sex marriage cases on hold until the Supreme Court rules in pending cases.\n\nThe state of Florida has dropped their appeal in the Brenner v. Armstrong case with the 11th Circuit Court of Appeals. Despite same-sex marriage being legal in Florida, as of February 2016 the case is still awaiting a final injunction order in the Northern District Court from Judge Hinkle.\n\nJudge Hinkle issued his final order in the case on March 30, 2016. Hinkle's summary judgment affirmed the unconstitutionality of Florida's now defunct ban on same-sex marriage and explicitly ordered the state government to ensure equal treatment of same-sex couples in all areas of Florida law.\n\nOn October 6, 2014, the U.S. Supreme Court denied certiorari without recorded dissent in all the cases it had been asked to consider from appellate courts in the Fourth, Seventh, and Tenth Circuits, allowing the circuit court decisions striking down marriage bans to stand. The cases were: \"Bogan v. Baskin\" (Indiana); \"Walker v. Wolf\" (Wisconsin); \"Herbert v. Kitchen\" (Utah); \"McQuigg v. Bostic\" (Virginia); \"Rainey v. Bostic\" (Virginia); \"Schaefer v. Bostic\" (Virginia); and \"Smith v. Bishop\" (Oklahoma). This effectively started the clock ticking on Judge Hinkle's decision in the Northern District of Florida, 91 days from this date his stay would lift unless the state of Florida was able to get the 11th Circuit Court of Appeals or the Supreme Court to extend the stay. On November 13, commenting in an unrelated case on behalf of himself and Justice Antonin Scalia, Justice Clarence Thomas wrote that the Supreme Court \"often review[s] decisions striking down state laws, even in the absence of a disagreement among lower courts... But for reasons that escape me, we have not done so with any consistency, especially in recent months\". He referenced denials of certiorari or denials of a stay in \"Herbert\", \"Bishop\", \"Bostic\", \"Walker v. Wolf\", \"Otter v. Latta\", and \"Parnell v. Hamby\".\n\nThe Supreme Court rejected a petition for certiorari before judgment in \"Robicheaux v. George\" (Louisiana) on January 12, 2015, and on January 16 agreed to hear the appeal in the four cases from the Sixth Circuit, consolidating them as one case titled \"Obergefell v. Hodges\". It presented these questions to the parties:\nThe court heard oral arguments on April 28. On June 26, 2015, the Supreme Court answered both questions in the affirmative.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7807261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7807261", "title": "California Fair Employment and Housing Act of 1959", "text": "California Fair Employment and Housing Act of 1959\n\nThe California Fair Employment and Housing Act of 1959, codified as Government Code §§12900 - 12996, is a powerful California statute used to fight sexual harassment and other forms of unlawful discrimination in employment and housing, which was passed on September 18, 1959.\n\nThe FEHA is the principal California statute prohibiting employment discrimination covering employers, labor organizations, employment agencies, apprenticeship programs and any person or entity who aids, abets, incites, compels, or coerces the doing of a discriminatory act. It prohibits employment discrimination based on race or color; religion; national origin or ancestry, physical disability; mental disability or medical condition; marital status; sex or sexual orientation; age, with respect to persons over the age of 40; and pregnancy, childbirth, or related medical conditions. The FEHA also prohibits retaliation against anyone for opposing any practice forbidden by the Act or for filing a complaint, testifying, or assisting in proceedings under the FEHA.\n\nAn amendment passed in 1978 requires employers to provide an unpaid job-protected leave to employees disabled by pregnancy (also known as \"pregnancy disability leave\") for up to four months. The legality of this statute and its consistency with federal law was upheld by the Supreme Court in \"California Federal Savings & Loan Ass'n v. Guerra\" (1987). After the passage of the federal Pregnancy Discrimination Act of 1978, pregnant employees in California also became eligible to receive temporary disability insurance benefits under the California State Disability Insurance program.\n\nVarious individual states within the United States have anti-discrimination laws which sometimes differ from federal law; these laws are provided in addition to the federal law, and may offer more desirable avenues to victims of harassment and discrimination.\n\nThe FEHA was adopted with the stated purpose of providing effective remedies to eliminate certain types of employment discrimination.\n\nThe FEHA offers protections that are similar and often more potent that those available under federal counterparts, like Title VII and the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990. These protections include, but are not limited to, attorney fee awards and reimbursement of certain case related expenses to prevailing plaintiffs. Additionally, the FEHA sometimes applies different and less stringent standards for meeting the criteria related to harassment, discrimination, and retaliation.\n\nCalifornia law and the FEHA also allow for the imposition of punitive damages when a corporate defendant's officers, directors or managing agents engage in harassment, discrimination, or retaliation, or when such persons approve or consciously disregard prohibited conduct by lower-level employees in violation of the rights or safety of the plaintiff or others.\n\nThe California Court of Appeals opinion in the landmark sexual harassment case of \"Weeks. v. Baker & McKenzie\" is a good example of how the FEHA works to protect employees in California. Settlements in FEHA cases can actually be quite complex and require complex negotiations.\n\nWhether seeking an investigation under FEHA or a suit in court, the process usually begins with the victim filing a complaint of discrimination with the California Department of Fair Employment and Housing.\n\n"}
{"id": "1717420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1717420", "title": "Castle doctrine", "text": "Castle doctrine\n\nA castle doctrine, also known as a castle law or a defense of habitation law, is a legal doctrine that designates a person's abode or any legally occupied place (for example, a vehicle or home) as a place in which that person has protections and immunities permitting one, in certain circumstances, to use force (up to and including deadly force) to defend oneself against an intruder, free from legal prosecution for the consequences of the force used. The term is most commonly used in the United States, though many other countries invoke comparable principles in their laws.\n\nA person may have a duty to retreat to avoid violence if one can reasonably do so. Castle doctrines lessen the duty to retreat when an individual is assaulted within one's own home. Deadly force may either be justified, the burdens of production and proof for charges impeded, or an affirmative defense against criminal homicide applicable, in cases \"when the actor reasonably fears imminent peril of death or serious bodily harm to him or herself or another\". The castle doctrine is not a defined law that can be invoked, but a set of principles which may be incorporated in some form in many jurisdictions. Castle doctrines may not provide civil immunity, such as from wrongful death suits, which have a much lower burden of proof.\n\nJustifiable homicide in self-defense which happens to occur inside one's home is distinct, as a matter of law, from castle doctrine because the mere occurrence of trespassing—and occasionally a subjective requirement of fear—is sufficient to invoke the castle doctrine, the burden of proof of fact is much less challenging than that of justifying a homicide in self-defense. With justifiable homicide in self-defense, one generally must objectively prove to a trier of fact, against all reasonable doubt, the intent in the intruder's mind to commit violence or a felony. It would be a misconception of law to infer that because a state has a justifiable homicide in self-defense provision pertaining to one's domicile, it has a castle doctrine protecting the estate and exonerating any duty whatsoever to retreat therefrom. The doctrine can be misused as a pretext for extrajudicial punishment in private spaces. The use of this legal principle in the United States has been controversial in relation to a number of cases in which it has been invoked, including the deaths of Japanese exchange student Yoshihiro Hattori and Scottish businessman Andrew de Vries.\n\nThe legal concept of the inviolability of the home has been known in Western civilization since the age of the Roman Republic. In English common law the term is derived from the dictum that \"an Englishman's home is his castle\" (see \"Semayne's case\"). This concept was established as English law by the 17th century jurist Sir Edward Coke, in his \"The Institutes of the Laws of England\", 1628:\n\nFor a man's house is his castle, et domus sua cuique est tutissimum refugium [and each man's home is his safest refuge]. \nEnglish common law came with colonists to the New World, where it has become known as the castle doctrine. The term has been used in England to imply a person's absolute right to exclude anyone from their home, although this has always had restrictions, such as bailiffs having increasing powers of entry since the late-20th century.\n\nAccording to 18th-century Presbyterian minister and biblical commentator Matthew Henry, the prohibition of murder found in the Old Testament contains an exception for legitimate self-defense. A home defender who struck and killed a thief caught in the act of breaking in at night was not guilty of bloodshed. \"If a thief is caught breaking in and is struck so that he dies, the thief owes no blood-debt to the home-defender; but if the thief lives, he owes a blood-debt to the home-defender and must make restitution.\"\n\nBy the 18th century, many US state legal systems began by importing English common law such as Acts of Parliament of 2 Ed. III (Statute of Northampton), and 5 Rich. II (Forcible Entry Act 1381) in law since 1381—which imposed criminal sanctions intending to discourage the resort to self-help. This required a threatened party to retreat, whenever property was \"involved\" and resolve the issue by civil means.\n\nThen as now, there were English politicians who were for or against the use of self-help over state-help. William Blackstone, in Book 4, Chapter 16 of his \"Commentaries on the Laws of England\", proclaims that the laws \"leave him (the inhabitant) the natural right of killing the aggressor (the burglar)\" and goes on to generalize in the following words:\n\nNot only was the doctrine considered to justify defense against neighbors and criminals, but any of the Crown's agents who attempted to enter without a proper warrant as well. It should be noted that prohibitions of the Fourth Amendment to the United States Constitution share a common background with current castle doctrine laws.\n\nIn 1841, The Preemption Act was passed to \"appropriate the proceeds of the sales of public lands... and to grant 'pre-emption rights' to individuals\" who were already living on federal lands (commonly referred to as \"squatters\"). During this same period, claim clubs sprung up all over the US advocating vigilance and the castle doctrine. This was in concurrence with the culture of manifest destiny which led to westward expansion and the American Indian Wars, the last of which ended by the 1920s.\n\nOn the American frontier, the doctrine of no duty to retreat extended outside a residence. It asserted that a man in an altercation that he did not provoke was not obliged to flee from his attacker, but was free to stand his ground and defend himself. A state Supreme Court justice wrote in 1877,\n\nAmerican West historian Richard M. Brown wrote that under the circumstances, for a man in the American West to flee under such circumstances would be cowardly and un-American. \nLegendary dentist and gambler Doc Holliday successfully used this defense when he shot Billy Allen as he entered a saloon. Holliday owed Allen $5 which Allen wanted paid and had threatened Holliday. Although Allen was unarmed at the time, Holliday had received reports that Allen had been armed and looking for him earlier in the day. During the subsequent trial, Holliday asserted he was within his rights and the jury agreed. He was acquitted on March 28, 1885.\n\nToday, the penal and civil forcible-entry laws of most American states forbid the use of force in the recovery of possession of land. At most the Castle Doctrine is an affirmative defense for individuals inevitably charged with criminal homicide, not a permission or pretext to commit homicide—which is generally unlawful. A minority of states, permit individuals who have the right of immediate possession of land to use reasonable force to regain possession of that land.\n\nThe term \"make my day law\" came to be used in the United States in 1985 when Colorado passed a law that shielded people from any criminal or civil liability for using force against a home invader, including deadly force. (The law's nickname is a reference to the line \"Go ahead, make my day\" (meaning 'do something so I have an excuse to kill you') uttered by actor Clint Eastwood's character \"Dirty Harry\" Callahan in the 1983 police film \"Sudden Impact\".)\n\nEach jurisdiction incorporates the castle doctrine into its laws in different ways. The circumstance in which it may be invoked include the premises covered (abode only, or other places too), the degree of retreat or non-deadly resistance required before deadly force can be used, etc. Typical conditions that apply to some castle doctrine laws include:\n\n\nIn Colorado, the make-my-day statute provides the occupant with immunity from prosecution only for force used against a person who has made an unlawful entry into the dwelling, but not against a person who remains unlawfully in the dwelling.\n\nIn addition to providing a valid defense in criminal law, many laws implementing the castle doctrine, particularly those with a \"stand-your-ground clause,\" also have a clause which provides immunity from any \"civil\" lawsuits filed on behalf of the assailant (for damages/injuries resulting from the force used to stop them). Without this clause, an assailant could sue for medical bills, property damage, disability, and pain & suffering as a result of the injuries inflicted by the defender; or, if the force results in the assailant's death, his/her next-of-kin or estate could launch a wrongful death suit. Even if successfully rebutted, the defendant (the homeowner/defender) may still have to pay high legal costs leading up to the suit's dismissal. Without criminal/civil immunity, such civil action could be used as revenge against a lawfully acting defender (who was, originally, the assailant's victim).\n\nUse of force in self-defense which causes damage or injuries to other, non-criminally-acting parties, may not be shielded from criminal or civil prosecution, however.\n\nIn US jurisdictions where the castle doctrine applies, there is no duty to retreat before deadly force is used against an intruder by a person in their home or, in some jurisdictions, just simply where the person can legally be.\n\nMost states in the United States have stand-your-ground laws where individuals can use deadly force in any location one is legally allowed to be without first attempting to retreat.\n\nIn Colorado, the make-my-day statute \"was not intended to justify use of physical force against persons who enter a dwelling accidentally or in good faith.\" In other words, \"the unlawful entry element requires a culpable mental state of 'knowingly' on the part of the intruder.\"\n\nA list of states and their most applicable body of law to justifying homicide in protection of the abode is listed below. Because not all states truly invoke castle doctrine, justifiable homicide in defense of life—which is nearly universal in adoption, but with narrower application—is often what is invoked as a pretext to protect the home. However, the mere fact that one is trespassing is an inappropriate or inadequate defense per se to justifying homicide in many states.\n\nThe castle doctrine in its traditional absolute and extrajudicial form is antiquated in most states. However, its vestige saliently remains as a set of principles which are incorporated to a variegated extent through both statutory and case law. It is commonly manifested as an affirmative defense to criminal homicide that occurred within a home; in some states though it slightly enhances the conditions for justifiable homicide in self-defense by laying down no duty to retreat or avert a violent encounter, or by even granting a blanket rebuttable presumption of required killing in defense of life. Where principles are statutized in a penal code, a homicide may be excused criminally, but be a wrongful death civilly. In a strict sense, simple justifiable homicide in self-defense which happens to occur inside one's home is actually distinct as a matter of law from castle doctrine's no duty to retreat in defense of one's domicile. Self-defense protects life while castle doctrine defends estate. While most American states forbid the use of force in the recovery of possession of land, a minority of jurisdictions do invoke pure castle doctrine which unconditionally authorizes violent self-help in protection of one's domicile. States still espousing the archaic form tend to be conservative, or have unique issues such as a primarily rural population in a harsh or adverse environment which critically demands high broad skill in self-reliance. It is invoked in areas often associated with small local governments and very long response times from law enforcement. Dense urban jurisdictions repeatedly find that injustices, mistakes, and avoidable escalation from violent self-help often outweigh any benefit, especially when potential occurrences are frequent, initial police response is usually less than 7–15 minutes away, and legal remedies are local.\n\nIn addition to the states listed above, the U.S. Territory of Guam has the Castle doctrine as law.\n\nThese states uphold castle doctrine in general, but may rely on case law instead of specific legislation, may enforce a duty to retreat, and may impose specific restrictions on the use of deadly force:\n\nAustralian states have differing self-defence laws. Under South Australian law, the general defence appears in s15(1) Criminal Law Consolidation Act 1935 (SA) for defending a person's life, and s15A(1) for defending property, subject to a hybrid test, i.e. the defendant honestly believed the threat to be imminent and made an objectively reasonable and proportionate response to the circumstances as the accused subjectively perceived them.\n\nIn July 2003, the Rann Government (SA) introduced laws allowing householders to use \"whatever force they deem necessary\" when confronted with a home invader. Householders who kill or injure a home invader escape prosecution provided they can prove they had a genuine belief that it was necessary to do so to protect themselves or their family. The law was strongly opposed by then-Director of Public Prosecutions Paul Rofe, QC, and lawyer Marie Shaw, who is now a District Court Judge.\n\nSince 1917, with the enacting of the first Brazilian Civil Code, a possessor of a thing, moveable or immoveable, is allowed, in case of disturbance (\"turbação\") or expulsion (\"esbulho\"), to \"maintain or to reintegrate himself [at the possession of a thing] using its own force, as well as he does it soon\". The acts of force employed by the possessor shall not exceed the necessary ones for eliminating the disturbance or for reintegration (Article 502 of the former Civil Code; Federal Ordinary Law 3.071/1917). This possibility remained untouched on the Brazilian Civil Code of 2002 (Federal Ordinary Law 10.406/2002), in its Article 1.210.\n\nSelf-defence of possession is not allowed for the cases of threat (\"ameaça\"). It is needed for the possessor to be effectively and physically disturbed in its possession (\"turbação\") or completely severed from it (\"esbulho\"). A possessor acting under the prescriptions of the Article 1.210 of the Civil Code shall be exempt of any civil or criminal responsibility. In terms of Tort Law, Article 188, inc. I, of the Civil Code states that is not an unlawful act \"the regular exercise of a right recognized by the law\".\n\nAccording to the Criminal Code of Canada Sections 34 and 35, (which were updated in 2012 with the passage of bill C-26) force, up to and including lethal force may be used in defence of one's life or \"peaceably\" possessed property or the defence of another's life or \"peaceably\" possessed property, and is not considered an offence so long as the person believes that force is being used against them in the case of self-defence, that someone is about to or has broken into or damaged property in the case of defence of property, that they are acting in defence of themselves, someone else or \"peaceably\" possessed property, and that the act is reasonable in the circumstances. The criminal code also lays out the factors in either case that will be used to determine what constitutes \"reasonable given the circumstances\". The changes made by the government were to clarify the laws involving self-defence and defence of property, and to help legal professionals to apply the law as believed to reflect the values Canadians hold to be acceptable.\n\nIn English common law a defendant may seek to avoid criminal or civil liability by claiming that he acted in self-defence. This requires the jury to determine whether the defendant believed that force was necessary to defend him or herself, his or her property, or to prevent a crime, and that the force used was reasonable. While there is no duty to retreat from an attacker and failure to do so is not conclusive evidence that a person did not act in self-defence, it may still be considered by the jury as a relevant factor when assessing the merits of a self-defence claim. The common law duty to retreat was repealed by the Criminal Law Act 1967. This duty never existed when a person is somewhere he has a lawful right to be, but due to the repeal, now extends to public places, etc.\n\nGerman law allows self-defense against an unlawful attack, without any duty to retreat. Courts have interpreted this law as applicable to home invasion, including the use of lethal force against law enforcement in cases where the home owner was of the mistaken belief that the intrusion was an unlawful attack on his life.\n\nUnder the terms of the Defence and the Dwelling Act enacted in 2011, property owners or residents are entitled to defend themselves with force, up to and including lethal force. Any individual who uses force against a trespasser is not guilty of an offense if he or she honestly believes they were there to commit a criminal act and a threat to life. However, there is a further provision which requires that the reaction to the intruder is such that another reasonable person in the same circumstances would likely employ. This provision acts as a safeguard against grossly disproportionate use of force, while still allowing a person to use force in nearly all circumstances.\n\nThe law was introduced in response to DPP v. Padraig Nally. The Act largely places previous Irish common law jurisprudence regarding self-defense on a statutory footing.\n\nIsraeli law allows property owners to defend themselves with force. This law was introduced in response to the trial of Shai Dromi, an Israeli farmer who shot Arab intruders on his farm late at night in 2007.\n\nItaly passed a law in 2005 that would allow property owners to defend themselves with force. The law's practical application is however highly controversial: Italian judiciary system is rather complex and using force is, more often than not, not recommended at all, since the property owner might get sued for disproportionate use of force.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22539338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22539338", "title": "Communication rights", "text": "Communication rights\n\nCommunication rights involve freedom of opinion and expression, democratic media governance, media ownership and media control, participation in one's own culture, linguistic rights, rights to education, privacy, assemble, and self-determination. They are also related inclusion and exclusion, quality and accessibility to means of communication.\n\nA \"right to communicate\" and \"communication rights\" are closely related, but not identical. The former is more associated with the New World Information and Communication Order debate, and points to the need for a formal legal acknowledgment of such a right, as an overall framework for more effective implementation. The latter emphasizes the fact that an array of international rights underpinning communication already exists, but many are often ignored and require active mobilization and assertion.\n\nThe concept of the right to communicate began in 1969 with Jean D’Arcy, a pioneer in French and European television in the 1950s and by 1969 Director of the United Nations Radio and Visual Services Division, where he was involved in international policy discussions arising out of the recent innovations in satellite global communications. He recognized that the communication rights relating to freedom of expression embodied in the U. N. Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) adopted in 1948 would need to be re-examined in the context of global, interactive communication between individuals and communities. He called for the need for the recognition of a human right to communicate that would encompass earlier established rights. He thus was the first to link communication and \"universal\" human rights. His call was taken up by academics, policy experts, and public servants who evolved into the Right to Communicate Group, the many non-governmental and civil society organisations that made up the Platform for Co-operation on Communication and Democratisation, and the Communication Rights in the Information Society (CRIS) Campaign.\n\nThe first broad-based debate on media and communication globally, limited mainly to governments, ran for a decade from the mid-1970s. Governments of the South, by then a majority in the UN, began voicing demands in UNESCO concerning media concentration, the flow of news, and ‘cultural imperialism’. The MacBride Report (1981) studied the problem, articulating a general ‘right to communicate’. The debate was compromised, however, by Cold War rhetoric, and fell apart after the US and the UK pulled out of UNESCO.\n\nThe \"MacBride Report\" became unavailable until the World Association for Christian Communication (WACC) sponsored its republication in 1988. WACC held the secretariat of the CRIS Campaign 2000–05.\n\nInterest in the right to communicate languished during the 1980s as there was no mass movement to promote it for the simple reason few people had direct experience with interactive communication over global electronic networks. This situation changed dramatically in the 1990s with a cluster of innovations that included the Internet, the World Wide Web, search engines, availability of personal computers, and social networking. As more people participated in interactive communication and the many challenges it raised in regard to such communication rights as free of speech, privacy, and freedom of information, they began to develop a growing consciousness of the importance of such rights to their ability to communicate.\n\nA result of this growing communicative consciousness is a renewed research interest in and political advocacy for a right to communicate (see references). From the 1990s onwards, NGOs and activists became increasingly active in a variety of communication issues, from community media, to language rights, to copyright, to Internet provision and free and open source software. These coalesced in a number of umbrella groups tackling inter-related issues from which the pluralistic notion of communication rights began to take shape, this time from the ground up.\n\nEach Pillar [of Communication Rights] relates to a different domain of social existence, experience and practice, in which communication is a core activity and performs key functions. The for the four [pillars is,] that each involves a \"relatively autonomous sphere of social action\", yet \"depends on the others\" for achieving its ultimate goal - they are necessary interlocking blocks in the struggle to achieve communication rights. Action can be coherently pursued under, each, often in collaboration with other social actors concerned with the area more generally; while bridges can and must be built to the other areas if the goal is to be achieved.\n\n\"The role of communication and media in exercising democratic political participation in society.\"\n\n\"The terms and means by which knowledge generated by society is communicated, or blocked, for use by different groups.\"\n\n\"The exercise of civil rights relating to the processes of communication in society.\"\n\n\"The communication of diverse cultures, cultural forms and identities at the individual and social levels.\"\n\nA ‘right to communicate’ and ‘communication rights’ are closely related, but not identical, in their history and usage. In the Cold War tensions of the 1970s and 1980s, the former became associated with the New World Information and Communication Order (NWICO) debate, thus, efforts within UNESCO to formulate such a right were abandoned. The latter emphasizes the fact that an array of international rights underpinning communication already exists, but many are too often ignored and require active mobilisation and assertion. While some, especially within the mass media sector, still see the right to communicate as a \"code word\" for state censorship,the technological innovations in interactive electronic, global communication of recent decades are seen by others as challenging the traditional mass media structures and formulations of communication rights values arising from them, thereby renewing the need to re-consider the need for a right to communicate.\n\n \n\n\n"}
{"id": "11612215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11612215", "title": "Competition Bureau (Canada)", "text": "Competition Bureau (Canada)\n\nThe Competition Bureau () is an independent Canadian law enforcement agency that ensures that markets operate in a competitive, innovative manner.\n\nHeaded by the Commissioner of Competition, the Bureau is responsible for the administration and enforcement of the \"Competition Act\", the \"Consumer Packaging and Labelling Act\", the \"Textile Labelling Act\" and the \"Precious Metals Marking Act\".\n\nThe current Interim Commissioner of Competition is Matthew Boswell. He served as Senior Deputy Commissioner of Competition before being appointed to his current position.\n\nThe Commissioner is responsible for the administration and enforcement of the \"Competition Act\" and three labelling statutes, the \"Consumer Packaging and Labelling Act\", the \"Precious Metals Marking Act\" and the \"Textile Labelling Act\".\n\nUnder the \"Competition Act\", the Commissioner can launch inquiries, challenge civil and merger matters before the Competition Tribunal, make recommendations on criminal matters to the Public Prosecution Service of Canada, and intervene as a competition advocate before federal and provincial bodies.\n\nAs head of the Canadian Competition Bureau, the Commissioner leads the Bureau's participation in international fora such as the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) and the International Competition Network (ICN), to develop and promote coordinated competition laws and policies in an increasingly globalized marketplace.\n\n\nThe Mergers and Monopolistic Practices Branch reviews proposed merger transactions and investigates practices that could negatively impact competition. The Mergers Directorate reviews proposed mergers to assess whether the transactions are likely to substantially prevent or lessen competition in the marketplace. The Monopolistic Practices Directorate detects, investigates and deters business practices that have a negative impact on competition, such as abuse of dominance, as well as certain types of anti‑competitive agreements or arrangements between competitors.\n\nThe Cartels and Deceptive Marketing Practices Branch fights criminal or deceptive business practices that hurt consumers and competition in the marketplace. The Cartels Directorate detects, investigates and deters genuine cartels, including conspiracies, agreements or arrangements among competitors and potential competitors to fix prices, rig bids, allocate markets or restrict supply. The Directorate also reaches out to stakeholders engaged in procurement to enable them to detect and deter bid-rigging and other cartel activities.The Deceptive Marketing Practices Directorate detects, investigates and deters false or misleading representations and deceptive marketing practices identified under the Competition Act. The Directorate also enforces related legislation, i.e. the Consumer Packaging and Labelling Act (except as it relates to food), the Precious Metals Marking Act and the Textile Labelling Act.\n\nThe Competition Promotion Branch encourages the adoption of pro-competition positions, policies, and behaviors by businesses, consumers, regulators, government and international partners. The Branch also provides economic analysis in support of enforcement, and leads the Bureau's planning and reporting processes. Also within this branch is the International Affairs Directorate, which establishes working relationships with foreigns competition law agencies and tribunals.\n\nThe Corporate Services Branch provides advice, planning and services for the effective operation of the Bureau's financial, asset, information management and human resource activities, as well as access to information, privacy, values and ethics, security and procurement matters. The Branch also provides expertise in complaint management and evidence collection and preservation in support of the Bureau's mandate.\n\nThe Competition Bureau Legal Services of the Department of Justice is responsible for providing legal services to the Commissioner and for representing the Commissioner on all matters other than those for which the Public Prosecution Service of Canada is responsible.\n\nThe Competition Law Section of the Public Prosecution Service of Canada is responsible for initiating and conducting criminal prosecutions on behalf of the Attorney General of Canada and for advising the Bureau on criminal investigations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1103580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1103580", "title": "Concrete masonry unit", "text": "Concrete masonry unit\n\nA concrete masonry unit (CMU) is a standard size rectangular block used in building construction.\n\nThose that use cinders (fly ash or bottom ash) are called cinder blocks in the United States, breeze blocks (\"breeze\" is a synonym of \"ash\") in the United Kingdom, and hollow blocks in the Philippines. In New Zealand and Canada they are known as concrete blocks (a name common in the United States also). In New Zealand, they are also called construction blocks. In Australia they are also called Besser blocks and Besser bricks, because the Besser Company was a major supplier of machines that made concrete blocks. Clinker blocks use clinker as aggregate. In non-technical usage, the terms \"cinder block\" and \"breeze block\" are often generalized to cover all of these varieties.\n\nConcrete blocks are made from cast concrete (e.g. Portland cement and aggregate, usually sand and fine gravel, for high-density blocks). Lower density blocks may use industrial wastes, such as fly ash or bottom ash, as an aggregate. Lightweight blocks can also be produced using autoclaved aerated concrete.\n\nThe use of blockwork allows structures to be built in the traditional masonry style with layers (or courses) of staggered blocks. Concrete blocks may be produced with hollow centers (cores) to reduce weight or improve insulation. Blocks come in modular sizes, with the most popular typically referred to (by their thickness) as \"4-inch\", \"6-inch\", \"8-inch\", and \"12-inch\". In the US, CMU blocks are nominally wide and long. Their actual dimensions are their nominal dimensions, minus ⅜ in any direction (to allow for mortar joints regardless of their orientation as laid). In Ireland and the UK, blocks are usually excluding mortar joints. In Australia, New Zealand and Canada, blocks are usually excluding mortar joints.\n\nBlock cores are typically tapered so that their top surface (as laid) has a greater surface on which to spread a mortar bed and for easier handling. Most CMU's have two cores, but three- and four-core units are also produced. A core also allows for the insertion of steel reinforcement to span courses in order to increase tensile strength. This is accomplished by grouting the voids of blocks containing rebar with concrete. Thus reinforced, CMU walls are better able to resist lateral forces such as wind load and seismic forces.\n\nA variety of specialized shapes exist to allow special construction features. U-shaped blocks or knockout blocks with notches to allow the construction of bond beams or lintel assemblies, using horizontal reinforcing grouted into place in the cavity. Blocks with a channel on the end, known as \"jamb blocks\", allow doors to be secured to wall assemblies. Blocks with grooved ends permit the construction of control joints, allowing a filler material to be anchored between the un-mortared block ends. Other features, such as radiused corners known as \"bullnoses\" may be incorporated. A wide variety of decorative profiles also exist.\n\nConcrete masonry units may be formulated with special aggregates to produce specific colors or textures for finish use. Special textures may be produced by splitting a ribbed or solid two-block unit; such factory-produced units are called \"split-rib\" or \"split-face\" blocks. Blocks may be scored by grooves the width of a mortar joint to simulate different block modules. For example, an block may be scored in the middle to simulate masonry, with the grooves filled with mortar and struck to match the true joints.\n\nConcrete block, when built in tandem with concrete columns and tie beams and reinforced with rebar, is a very common building material for the load-bearing walls of buildings, in what is termed concrete block structure (CBS) construction. American suburban houses typically employ a concrete foundation and slab with a concrete block wall on the perimeter. Other common uses for concrete block wall is interior fire-rated partition walls, and exterior backup wall for attachment of building envelope systems and façades.\n\nConcrete masonry walls may be ungrouted, partially grouted, or fully grouted, the latter two enhancing their structural strength. Additionally, steel reinforcement bars (rebar) can be used both vertically and horizontally inside a CMU wall to maximize its structural performance. The cells in which the rebar is placed must be grouted for the bars to bond to the wall. For this reason, high seismic zones typically only allow fully grouted walls in their building codes. The American design code that guides design engineers in using CMU as a structural system is the \"Masonry Standards Joint Committee's Building Code Requirements & Specification for Masonry Structures\" (TMS 402/ACI 530/ASCE 5). The compressive strength of concrete masonry units and masonry walls varies from approximately to based on the type of concrete used to manufacture the unit, stacking orientation, the type of mortar used to build the wall, and other factors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "515644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=515644", "title": "Constitutional court", "text": "Constitutional court\n\nA constitutional court is a high court that deals primarily with constitutional law. Its main authority is to rule on whether laws that are challenged are in fact unconstitutional, i.e. whether they conflict with constitutionally established rules, rights, and freedoms, among other things.\n\nIn 1919 the First Austrian Republic established the first dedicated constitutional court, the Constitutional Court of Austria, which however existed in name only until 10 October 1920, when the country's new constitution came into effect, upon which the court gained the power to review the laws of Austria's federal states. The Czechoslovakian Constitution of 1920, which came into effect on 2 February 1920, was the first to provide for a dedicated court for judicial review of parliamentary laws, but the court did not convene until November 1921.\n\nThe list in this article is of countries that have a separate constitutional court. Many countries do not have separate constitutional courts, but instead delegate constitutional judicial authority to their general court system, with the final decision-making power resting in the supreme court. Nonetheless, such courts are sometimes also called \"constitutional courts\". For example, the Supreme Court of the United States has been called the world's oldest constitutional court because it was one of the earliest courts in the world to invalidate a law as unconstitutional (\"Marbury v. Madison\"), even though it is not a separate constitutional court, hearing as it does cases not touching on the Constitution.\n\nPrior to 1919, the United States, Canada and Australia had adopted the concept of judicial review by their courts following shared principles of their similar common law legal systems, which they, in turn, had inherited from British legal practice. (The United Kingdom itself does not have a codified constitution to be reviewed by such a court.)\nThe Parthenopean Republic constitution of 1799, written by Mario Pagano, envisaged such a body (\"eforato\"), but lasted only 6 months.\nCountries with separate constitutional courts include:\n\n"}
{"id": "30874872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30874872", "title": "Constitutionalism", "text": "Constitutionalism\n\nConstitutionalism is \"a complex of ideas, attitudes, and patterns of behavior elaborating the principle that the authority of government derives from and is limited by a body of fundamental law\".\n\nPolitical organizations are constitutional to the extent that they \"contain institutionalized mechanisms of power control for the protection of the interests and liberties of the citizenry, including those that may be in the minority\". As described by political scientist and constitutional scholar David Fellman:\nConstitutionalism has prescriptive and descriptive uses. Law professor Gerhard Casper captured this aspect of the term in noting, \"Constitutionalism has both descriptive and prescriptive connotations. Used descriptively, it refers chiefly to the historical struggle for constitutional recognition of the people's right to 'consent' and certain other rights, freedoms, and privileges. Used prescriptively, its meaning incorporates those features of government seen as the essential elements of the... Constitution\".\n\nOne example of constitutionalism's descriptive use is law professor Bernard Schwartz's five volume compilation of sources seeking to trace the origins of the U.S. Bill of Rights. Beginning with English antecedents going back to Magna Carta (1215), Schwartz explores the presence and development of ideas of individual freedoms and privileges through colonial charters and legal understandings. Then in carrying the story forward, he identifies revolutionary declarations and constitutions, documents and judicial decisions of the Confederation period and the formation of the federal Constitution. Finally, he turns to the debates over the federal Constitution's ratification that ultimately provided mounting pressure for a federal bill of rights. While hardly presenting a straight line, the account illustrates the historical struggle to recognize and enshrine constitutional rights and principles in a constitutional order.\n\nIn contrast to describing what constitutions are, a prescriptive approach addresses what a constitution should be. As presented by the Canadian philosopher Wil Waluchow, constitutionalism embodies\n\nOne example of this prescriptive approach was the project of the National Municipal League to develop a model state constitution.\n\nWhether reflecting a descriptive or prescriptive focus, treatments of the concept of constitutionalism all deal with the legitimacy of government. One recent assessment of American constitutionalism, for example, notes that the idea of constitutionalism serves to define what it is that \"grants and guides the legitimate exercise of government authority\". Similarly, historian Gordon S. Wood described this American constitutionalism as \"advanced thinking\" on the nature of constitutions in which the constitution was conceived to be a \"\"sett of fundamental rules\" by which even the supreme power of the state shall be governed.\" Ultimately, American constitutionalism came to rest on the collective sovereignty of the people, the source that legitimized American governments.\n\nOne of the most salient features of constitutionalism is that it describes and prescribes both the source and the limits of government power. William H. Hamilton has captured this dual aspect by noting that constitutionalism \"is the name given to the trust which men repose in the power of words engrossed on parchment to keep a government in order.\"\n\nThe study of constitutions is not necessarily synonymous with the study of constitutionalism. Although frequently conflated, there are crucial differences. A discussion of this difference appears in legal historian Christian G. Fritz's \"American Sovereigns: The People and America's Constitutional Tradition Before the Civil War\", a study of the early history of American constitutionalism. Fritz notes that an analyst could approach the study of historic events focusing on issues that entailed \"constitutional questions\" and that this differs from a focus that involves \"questions of constitutionalism.\" Constitutional questions involve the analyst in examining how the constitution was interpreted and applied to distribute power and authority as the new nation struggled with problems of war and peace, taxation and representation. However,\n\nA similar distinction was drawn by British constitutional scholar A.V. Dicey in assessing Britain's unwritten constitution. Dicey noted a difference between the \"conventions of the constitution\" and the \"law of the constitution\". The \"essential distinction\" between the two concepts was that the law of the constitution was made up of \"rules enforced or recognised by the Courts\", making up \"a body of 'laws' in the proper sense of that term.\" In contrast, the conventions of the constitution consisted \"of customs, practices, maxims, or precepts which are not enforced or recognised by the Courts\" but \"make up a body not of laws, but of constitutional or political ethics\".\n\nConstitutionalism has been the subject of criticism for its previous ignorance of economic issues but this criticism is now taken into account by the development of constitutional economics.\n\nConstitutional economics is a field of economics and constitutionalism and describes and analyzes the specific interrelationships between constitutional issues and the structure and functioning of the economy. The term “constitutional economics” was used by American economist James M. Buchanan as a name for a new academic sub-discipline. Buchanan received in 1986 the Nobel Prize in Economic Sciences for his \"development of the contractual and constitutional bases for the theory of economic and political decision-making\". Buchanan rejects \"any organic conception of the state as superior in wisdom, to the individuals who are its members\". This philosophical position is, in fact, the very subject matter of constitutional economics.\n\nA constitutional economics approach allows for a combined economic and constitutional analysis, helping to avoid an unidimensional understanding. Buchanan believes that a constitution, intended for use by at least several generations of citizens, must be able to adjust itself for pragmatic economic decisions and to balance interests of the state and society against those of individuals and their constitutional rights to personal freedom and private happiness. Constitutional economics draws substantial inspiration from the reformist attitude which is characteristic of Adam Smith's vision, and that Buchanan’s concept can be considered the modern-day counterpart to what Smith called \"the science of legislation\".\n\nConcurrently with the rise of academic research in the field of constitutional economics in the U.S. in the 1980s, the Supreme Court of India for almost a decade had been encouraging public interest litigation on behalf of the poor and oppressed by using a very broad interpretation of several articles of the Indian Constitution. This is a vivid example of a \"de facto\" practical application of the methodology of constitutional economics.\n\nThe Russian school of constitutional economics was created in the early 21st century with the idea that constitutional economics allows for a combined economic and constitutional analysis in the legislative (especially budgetary) process, thus helping to overcome arbitrariness in the economic and financial decision-making: for instance, when military expenses (and the like) dwarf the budget spending on education and culture. In the English language, the word \"constitution\" possesses a whole number of meanings, encompassing not only national constitutions as such, but also charters of public organizations, unwritten rules of various clubs, informal groups, etc. The Russian model of constitutional economics, originally intended for transitional and developing countries, focuses entirely on the concept of the state constitution. In 2006, the Russian Academy of Sciences officially recognized constitutional economics as a separate academic sub-discipline. Since many countries with transitional political and economic systems continue to treat their constitutions as abstract legal documents disengaged from the economic policy of the state, the practice of constitutional economics becomes there a decisive prerequisite for democratic development of the state and society.\n\nUsed descriptively, the concept of constitutionalism can refer chiefly to the historical struggle for constitutional recognition of the people's right to \"consent\" and certain other rights, freedoms, and privileges.\n\nAmerican constitutionalism has been defined as a complex of ideas, attitudes and patterns elaborating the principle that the authority of government derives from the people, and is limited by a body of fundamental law. These ideas, attitudes and patterns, according to one analyst, derive from \"a dynamic political and historical process rather than from a static body of thought laid down in the eighteenth century\".\n\nIn U.S. history, constitutionalism, in both its descriptive and prescriptive sense, has traditionally focused on the federal constitution. Indeed, a routine assumption of many scholars has been that understanding \"American constitutionalism\" necessarily entails the thought that went into the drafting of the federal constitution and the American experience with that constitution since its ratification in 1789.\n\nThere is a rich tradition of state constitutionalism that offers broader insight into constitutionalism in the United States. While state constitutions and the federal constitution operate differently as a function of federalism from the coexistence and interplay of governments at both a national and state level, they all rest on a shared assumption that their legitimacy comes from the sovereign authority of the people or popular sovereignty. This underlying premise, embraced by the American revolutionaries with the Declaration of Independence unites American constitutional tradition.\n\nBoth experience with state constitutions before and after the federal constitution as well as the emergence and operation of the latter reflect an ongoing struggle over the idea that all governments in America rested on the sovereignty of the people for their legitimacy.\n\nThe United Kingdom is perhaps the best instance of constitutionalism in a country that has an uncodified constitution. A variety of developments in 17th century England, including \"the protracted struggle for power between King and Parliament was accompanied by an efflorescence of political ideas in which the concept of countervailing powers was clearly defined,\"\nled to a well-developed polity with multiple governmental and private institutions that counter the power of the state.\n\nThe recent move of the Japanese government for revisions of its 1947 constitution under Shinzō Abe's administration is criticized as anticonstitutionalist in the sense that the new constitution would impose obligations on citizens rather than protect their human rights.\n\nFrom the mid-sixteenth to the late eighteenth century, the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth utilized the \"liberum veto\", a form of unanimity voting rule, in its parliamentary deliberations. The \"principle of \"liberum veto\" played an important role in [the] emergence of the unique Polish form of constitutionalism.\" This constraint on the powers of the monarch were significant in making the \"[r]ule of law, religious tolerance and limited constitutional government... the norm in Poland in times when the rest of Europe was being devastated by religious hatred and despotism.\"\n\nThe prescriptive approach to constitutionalism addresses what a constitution should be. Two observations might be offered about its prescriptive use.\n\nStarting with the proposition that \"'Constitutionalism' refers to the position or practice that government be limited by a constitution, usually written,\" analysts take a variety of positions on what the constitution means. For instance, they describe the document as a document that may specify its relation to statutes, treaties, executive and judicial actions, and the constitutions or laws of regional jurisdictions. This prescriptive use of Constitutionalism is also concerned with the principles of constitutional design, which includes the principle that the field of public action be partitioned between delegated powers to the government and the rights of individuals, each of which is a restriction of the other, and that no powers be delegated that are beyond the competence of government.\n\nThe Constitution of May 3, 1791, which historian Norman Davies calls \"the first constitution of its kind in Europe\", was in effect for only a year. It was designed to redress longstanding political defects of the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth and its traditional system of \"Golden Liberty\". The Constitution introduced political equality between townspeople and nobility (\"szlachta\") and placed the peasants under the protection of the government, thus mitigating the worst abuses of serfdom.\n\nConstitutionalist was also a label used by some independent candidates in UK general elections in the early 1920s. Most of the candidates were former Liberal Party members, and many of them joined the Conservative Party soon after being elected. The best known Constitutionalist candidate was Winston Churchill in the 1924 UK general election.\n\nAfter the democratically elected government of president Juan Bosch in the Dominican Republic was deposed, the Constitutionalist movement was born in the country. As opposed to said movement, the Anticonstitutionalist movement was also born. Bosch had to depart to Puerto Rico after he was deposed. His first leader was Colonel Rafael Tomás Fernández Domínguez, and he wanted Bosch to come back to power once again. Colonel Fernández Domínguez was exiled to Puerto Rico where Bosch was. The Constitutionalists had a new leader: Colonel Francisco Alberto Caamaño Deñó.\n\nLegal scholar Jeremy Waldron contends that constitutionalism is often undemocratic:\nConstitutionalism has also been the subject of criticism by Murray Rothbard, who attacked constitutionalism as incapable of restraining governments and does not protect the rights of citizens from their governments:\n[i]t is true that, in the United States, at least, we have a constitution that imposes strict limits on some powers of government. But, as we have discovered in the past century, no constitution can interpret or enforce itself; it must be interpreted by \"men\". And if the ultimate power to interpret a constitution is given to the government's own Supreme Court, then the inevitable tendency is for the Court to continue to place its imprimatur on ever-broader powers for its own government. Furthermore, the highly touted \"checks and balances\" and \"separation of powers\" in the American government are flimsy indeed, since in the final analysis all of these divisions are part of the same government and are governed by the same set of rulers.\n\nThe scope and limits of constitutionalism in Muslim countries have attracted growing interest in recent years. Authors such as Ann E. Mayer define Islamic constitutionalism as \"constitutionalism that is in some form based on Islamic principles, as opposed to constitutionalism that has developed in countries that happen to be Muslim but that has not been informed by distinctively Islamic principles\". However, the concrete meaning of the notion remains contested among Muslim as well as Western scholars. Influential thinkers like Mohammad Hashim Kamali and Khaled Abou El Fadl, but also younger ones like Asifa Quraishi and Nadirsyah Hosen combine classic Islamic law with modern constitutionalism. The constitutional changes initiated by the Arab spring movement have already brought into reality many new hybrid models of Islamic constitutionalism.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44564910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44564910", "title": "CopyCamp", "text": "CopyCamp\n\nCopyCamp is an international conference devoted to copyright, organized in Warsaw by the Modern Poland Foundation. Representatives of cultural institutions, the media, creative sectors, academic, legal, political and non-governmental circles gather annually to discuss the influence of copyright on the circulation of cultural goods and social changes taking place all over the world.\n\nStrategic partners are Trust for Civil Society in Central and Eastern Europe, Google, Samsung Electronics and Stowarzyszenie Autorów ZAiKS. Among other partners supporting the first three editions of the conference were: Coalition for Open Education, Kronenberg Foundation, Copyright for Creativity and National Audiovisual Institute. Every year, the event is organized under the honorary patronage of the Ministry of Administration and Digitization and academically supported by Interdisciplinary Centre for Mathematical and Computational Modelling. The third edition of CopyCamp was co-finansed by the International Visegrad Fund.\n\nThe speakers of the first edition organized in 2012 in kino Kultura were Nina Paley, Jan Błeszyński, Lidia Geringer de Oedenberg, Michał Kwiatkowski, Jarosław Lipszyc, Alek Tarkowski, Elżbieta Traple, Hieronim Wrona and Paweł Zalewski, among others.\n\nIn 2013 the conference took place on October 1 in kino Muranów with Eben Moglen as a special guest. Other speakers were Edwin Bendyk, Barbara Fatyga and Wojciech Orliński, among others.\n\nCopyCamp 2014 took place on November 6–7 in kino Praha with two keynote speakers: Cory Doctorow and Birgitta Jónsdóttir next to such figures as Michał Boni, Lucie Guibault, Novika, Yngve Slettholm, Piotr Waglowski, Attila Szervác and Michał Wiśniewski, among others. At the third edition of CopyCamp, special attention was paid to the perspective of the Visegrad Group countries.\n\nAll artistic and scientific materials, logos, photographs, audio and video recordings are under CC-BY-SA or compatible licences.\n\n"}
{"id": "23900623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23900623", "title": "Copyright law of Egypt", "text": "Copyright law of Egypt\n\nEgyptian copyright law has evolved over time. The currently applicable legislation in Egypt with regard to copyright is Book Three of the \"\", which entered into force on 3 June 2002, the day following its publication in the \"Official Gazette\". The implementing decree is \"\" (effective by Issue No. 12, \"Official Gazette\", 29 March 2005).\n\nPrior to 1954, there was no legislation in Egypt protecting artistic and literary property. Despite the absence of any such legislation, indigenous and mixed courts invoked principles of natural law and justice to protect intellectual property rights. However, indigenous and mixed courts had two different approaches to sanctioning violations. Indigenous courts refused to apply criminal law provisions, on the ground that no criminal responsibility could be determined in the absence of a specific legislative text dealing with artistic and literary property. On the other hand, mixed courts did not wait for implementing regulations to be enacted. In a hearing on 17 February 1941, the Criminal Chamber of Cassation, Mixed Court of Appeal, ruled that performance of a song or musical composition, without the authorization of the author or composer, was considered as an offence punishable under Article 351 of the Penal Law.<ref name=\"WIPO/ACE/2/6\"></ref>\n\nLiterary and artistic protection were dealt with for the first time by Egyptian law in 1954, with the promulgation of Law No. 354 of 1954 on the Protection of Copyright. Article 20 of the law provided for a term of protection of 50 years after the author's death, although this was reduced to 15 years from publication in the case of \"works of photography and audiovisual works that are not of creative character and merely consist of a mechanical reproduction of scenes.\" Official documents were explicitly excluded from copyright protection (Art. 4).\n\nThe 1954 law was repealed in its entirety when the new Intellectual Property Law 82 of 2002 entered into force on 3 June 2002. The new law retains many provisions contained in the previous law, notably the 50-year \"p.m.a.\" term of copyright protection (Art. 160). However, it also introduces several new concepts, among them the concept of national folklore (Art. 138 & 142). The new law also deals for the first time ever with the protection of neighbouring rights (Art. 153 and following).\n\nHowever, the new law is not without its critics. The International Intellectual Property Alliance (IIPA) has repeatedly highlighted in its reports a number of shortcomings in the law, stating in its \"Special 301 Report\" published in 2009 that \"the Copyright Law and the Implementing Decree, while suitable to enforce against copyright piracy in general, left unresolved some TRIPS deficiencies, other ambiguities in protection, and important gaps for protection recommended by IIPA in order to modernize protection.\" Among the controversial provisions of the law is Article 148, which states that all foreign-language literary works fall into the public domain if they are not translated into Arabic within three years of publication.\n\nIn late 2007, reports surfaced in the media that Egypt intended to pass a law requiring the payment of royalties whenever copies were made of its antiquities and monuments. Zahi Hawass, the head of the Supreme Council of Antiquities, told AFP news agency that the law would not affect buildings such as the Luxor Las Vegas hotel because it was not an exact copy of a pyramid and its interior was completely different. BBC News stated that \"MPs are expected to pass\" the law, although it is unclear whether the proposal ever made it through Parliament.\n\nEgypt is a signatory to various international copyright agreements. The Berne Convention entered into force in Egypt on 7 June 1977, and the Phonograms Convention on 23 April 1978. Egypt became a member of the World Trade Organization on 30 June 1995.\n\nAs early as 1985, Egypt has been targeted by the IIPA. Based on the results of the Special 301 Report (which \"examines in detail the adequacy and effectiveness of intellectual property rights\" in many countries around the world), the United States Trade Representative (USTR) placed Egypt on the \"Priority Watch List\" in 1992. The USTR lowered Egypt to the \"\" in 2008. The problem of piracy is pervasive in Egypt. The IIPA stated in a 2009 report that Egypt is \"a nightmare market for right holders, stunted by piracy, difficult bureaucracy, and almost unparalleled market access hurdles.\" Trade losses due to copyright piracy amounted to nearly $119 million in 2007, with a piracy level of 32% for books and 15% for records and music.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "984654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=984654", "title": "Declaratory judgment", "text": "Declaratory judgment\n\nA declaratory judgment, also called a declaration, is the legal determination of a court that resolves legal uncertainty for the litigants. It is a form of legally binding preventive adjudication by which a party involved in an actual or possible legal matter can ask a court to conclusively rule on and affirm the rights, duties, or obligations of one or more parties in a civil dispute (subject to any appeal). The declaratory judgment is generally considered a statutory remedy and not an equitable remedy in the United States, and is thus not subject to equitable requirements, though there are analogies that can be found in the remedies granted by courts of equity. A declaratory judgment does not by itself order any action by a party, or imply damages or an injunction, although it may be accompanied by one or more other remedies.\n\nA declaratory judgment is generally distinguished from an advisory opinion because the latter does not resolve an actual case or controversy. Declaratory judgments can provide legal certainty to each party in a matter when this could resolve or assist in a disagreement. Often an early resolution of legal rights will resolve some or all of the other issues in a matter.\n\nA declaratory judgment is typically requested when a party is threatened with a lawsuit but the lawsuit has not yet been filed; or when a party or parties believe that their rights under law and/or contract might conflict; or as part of a counterclaim to prevent further lawsuits from the same plaintiff (for example, when only a contract claim is filed, but a copyright claim might also be applicable). In some instances, a declaratory judgment is filed because the statute of limitations against a potential defendant may pass before the plaintiff incurs damage (for example, a malpractice statute applicable to a certified public accountant may be shorter than the time period the IRS has to assess a taxpayer for additional tax due to bad advice given by the C.P.A.).\n\nDeclaratory judgments are authorized by statute in most common-law jurisdictions. In the United States, the federal government and most states enacted statutes in the 1920s and 1930s authorizing their courts to issue declaratory judgments.\n\nThe filing of a declaratory judgment lawsuit can follow the sending by one party of a cease-and-desist letter to another party. A party contemplating sending such a letter risks that the recipient, or a party related to the recipient (such as a customer or supplier), may file for a declaratory judgment in their own jurisdiction, or sue for minor damages in the law of unjustified threats. This may require the sender to appear in a distant court, at their own expense. So sending a cease-and-desist letter presents a dilemma to the sender, as it would be desirable to be able to address the issues at hand in a candid manner without the need for litigation. Upon receiving a cease-and-desist letter, the recipient may seek a tactical advantage by instituting declaratory-judgment litigation in a more favorable jurisdiction.\n\nSometimes the parties agree in advance of discussions that no declaratory-judgment lawsuit will be filed while the negotiations are continuing. Sometimes a lawsuit is filed, but not served, before sending such a notice, to preserve a jurisdiction advantage without engaging the judicial process fully. Some parties send cease-and-desist letters that make \"an oblique suggestion of possible infringement\" to lower the risk of the recipient filing a declaratory-judgment lawsuit.\n\nDeclaratory judgments are common in patent litigation, as well as in other areas of intellectual property litigation, because declaratory judgments allow an alleged infringer to \"clear the air\" about a product or service that may be a business's focal point. For example, in a typical patent-infringement claim, when a patent owner becomes aware of an infringer, the owner can simply wait until he pleases to bring an infringement suit. Meanwhile, the monetary damages continuously accrue – with no effort expended by the patent owner, apart from marking the patent number on products the patent owner sold or licensed. On the other hand, the alleged infringer could do nothing to rectify the situation if no declaratory judgment existed. The alleged infringer would be forced to continue to operate his business with the cloud of a lawsuit over his head. The declaratory-judgment procedure allows the alleged infringer to proactively bring suit to resolve the situation and eliminate the cloud of uncertainty looming overhead.\n\nCommon claims for declaratory judgment in patent cases are non-infringement, patent invalidity, and unenforceability. To bring a claim for declaratory judgment in a situation where a patent dispute may exist or develop, the claimant must establish that an actual controversy exists. If there is a substantial controversy of sufficient immediacy and reality, the court will generally proceed with the declaratory-judgment action. The court may even hear the action if the patentee has not filed a cease and desist letter. The standard for an actual controversy was most recently addressed by the Supreme Court in \"MedImmune, Inc. v. Genentech, Inc.\", 549 U.S. 118 (2007). But even if an actual controversy exists, the declaratory-judgment statute is permissive—a district court, in its discretion, may decline to hear a declaratory-judgment action.\n\nUsually the claimant is actually making, using, selling, offering to sell or importing or is prepared to actually make, use or sell, offer to sell or import an allegedly infringing device or method, and usually the patent owner has claimed that such activities by claimant will result in patent infringement. An express threat of litigation is not needed, nor is it a guarantee that jurisdiction will be granted. Some factors courts have considered in this analysis are whether a patent owner has asserted its rights against an alleged infringer in a royalty dispute, whether the owner has sued a customer of an alleged infringer, or whether an owner has made statements regarding its patents in trade magazines.\n\nThe patent owner must be very careful when communicating with possible infringers. If a patent owner does suggest that there is patent coverage of what an alleged infringer is doing or planning to do, the alleged infringer may bring suit. The alleged infringer, as the plaintiff in the suit, can choose the venue subject to constitutional restrictions and the state long-arm statute of the forum in question. The suit can be brought in any forum if the local federal district court can properly obtain personal jurisdiction over the alleged infringer. The patent owner being sued for a declaratory judgment created a situation where he has lost the \"home-field advantage\". Travel costs to a distant courthouse can be substantial, and a party litigating in a distant forum may have to hire a local attorney, if required by the local rules, in addition to the regular patent litigation counsel.\n\nAlso, distant juries sometimes prefer the \"home-town\" guy over the foreigner. Defendants in infringement cases should also not forget the utility of a declaratory judgment as a counterclaim. If a defendant brings a declaratory-judgment counterclaim, the plaintiff may not be able to so easily drop the suit if the outcome begins to look dismal because plaintiff now has to defend the counterclaim.\n\nPatent owners should also be aware that a counterclaim of infringement is a compulsory counterclaim to a claim for declaratory judgment of non-infringement. If a patent owner fails to assert an infringement counterclaim in a declaratory-judgment non-infringement suit, the patent infringement claim will be deemed waived.\n\n"}
{"id": "95816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=95816", "title": "Direct democracy", "text": "Direct democracy\n\nDirect democracy or pure democracy is a form of democracy in which people decide on policy initiatives directly. This differs from the majority of most currently established democracies, which are representative democracies.\n\nIn a representative democracy, people vote for representatives who then enact policy initiatives. In direct democracy, people decide on policies without any intermediary. Depending on the particular system in use, direct democracy might entail passing executive decisions, the use of sortition, making laws, directly electing or dismissing officials, and conducting trials. Two leading forms of direct democracy are participatory democracy and deliberative democracy.\n\nSemi-direct democracies in which representatives administer day-to-day governance, but the citizens remain the sovereign, allow for three forms of popular action: referendum (plebiscite), initiative, and recall. The first two forms—referendums and initiatives—are examples of direct legislation.\n\nA 'compulsory referendum' subjects the legislation drafted by political elites to a binding popular vote. This is the most common form of direct legislation. A 'popular referendum' empowers citizens to make a petition that calls existing legislation to a vote by the citizens. Institutions specify the timeframe for a valid petition and the number of signatures required, and may require signatures from diverse communities to protect minority interests. This form of direct democracy effectively grants the voting public a veto on laws adopted by the elected legislature, as is done in Switzerland.\n\nA 'citizen-initiated referendum' (also called an initiative) empowers members of the general public to propose, by petition, specific statutory measures or constitutional reforms to the government and, as with referendums, the vote may be binding or simply advisory. Initiatives may be direct or indirect: With the direct initiative, a successful proposition is placed directly on the ballot to be subject to vote (as exemplified by California's system). With an indirect initiative, a successful proposition is first presented to the legislature for their consideration; however, if no acceptable action is taken after a designated period of time, the proposition moves to direct popular vote. Such a form of indirect initiative is utilized by Switzerland for constitutional amendments.\n\nA deliberative referendum is a referendum that increases public deliberation through purposeful institutional design.\n\nPower of recall gives the public the power to remove elected officials from office before the end of their term.\n\nThe earliest known direct democracy is said to be the Athenian democracy in the 5th century BC, although it was not an inclusive democracy: women, foreigners, and slaves were excluded from it. The main bodies in the Athenian democracy were the assembly, composed of male citizens; the boulê, composed of 500 citizens; and the law courts, composed of a massive number of jurors chosen by lot, with no judges. There were only about 30,000 male citizens, but several thousand of them were politically active in each year, and many of them quite regularly for years on end. The Athenian democracy was \"direct\" not only in the sense that decisions were made by the assembled people, but also in the sense that the people through the assembly, boulê, and law courts controlled the entire political process, and a large proportion of citizens were involved constantly in the public business. Modern democracies, being representative, not direct, do not resemble the Athenian system.\n\nAlso relevant to the history of direct democracy is the history of Ancient Rome, specifically the Roman Republic, beginning around 509 BC. Rome displayed many aspects of democracy, both direct and indirect, from the era of Roman monarchy all the way to the collapse of the Roman Empire. Indeed, the Senate, formed in the first days of the city, lasted through the Kingdom, Republic, and Empire, and even continued after the decline of Western Rome; and its structure and regulations continue to influence legislative bodies worldwide. As to direct democracy, the ancient Roman Republic had a system of citizen lawmaking, or citizen formulation and passage of law, and a citizen veto of legislature-made law. Many historians mark the end of the Republic with the passage of a law named the \"Lex Titia\", 27 November 43 BC, which eliminated many oversight provisions.\n\nModern-era citizen lawmaking began in the towns of Switzerland in the 13th century. In 1847, the Swiss added the \"statute referendum\" to their national constitution. They soon discovered that merely having the power to veto Parliament's laws was not enough. In 1891, they added the \"constitutional amendment initiative\". Swiss politics since 1891 have given the world a valuable experience base with the national-level constitutional amendment initiative. In the past 120 years, more than 240 initiatives have been put to referendums. The populace has been conservative, approving only about 10% of these initiatives; in addition, they have often opted for a version of the initiative rewritten by government. (See \"Direct democracy in Switzerland\" below.)\n\nSome of the issues surrounding the related notion of a direct democracy using the Internet and other communications technologies are dealt with in e-democracy and below under the term \"electronic direct democracy\". More concisely, the concept of open source governance applies principles of the free software movement to the governance of people, allowing the entire populace to participate in government directly, as much or as little as they please.\n\nAthenian democracy developed in the Greek city-state of Athens, comprising the city of Athens and the surrounding territory of Attica, around 600 BC. Athens was one of the very first known democracies. Other Greek cities set up democracies, and even though most followed an Athenian model, none were as powerful, stable, or well-documented as that of Athens. In the direct democracy of Athens, the citizens did not nominate representatives to vote on legislation and executive bills on their behalf (as in the United States) but instead voted as individuals. The public opinion of voters was influenced by the political satire of the comic poets in the theatres.\n\nSolon (694 BC), Cleisthenes (608–607 BCE), and Ephialtes (562 BC) all contributed to the development of Athenian democracy. Historians differ on which of them was responsible for which institution, and which of them most represented a truly democratic movement. It is most usual to date Athenian democracy from Cleisthenes, since Solon's constitution fell and was replaced by the tyranny of Peisistratus, whereas Ephialtes revised Cleisthenes' constitution relatively peacefully.\nHipparchus, the brother of the tyrant Hippias, was killed by Harmodius and Aristogeiton, who were subsequently honored by the Athenians for their alleged restoration of Athenian freedom.\n\nThe greatest and longest-lasting democratic leader was Pericles; after his death, Athenian democracy was twice briefly interrupted by oligarchic revolution towards the end of the Peloponnesian War. It was modified somewhat after it was restored under Eucleides; the most detailed accounts are of this 4th-century modification rather than of the Periclean system. It was suppressed by the Macedonians in 322 BC. The Athenian institutions were later revived, but the extent to which they were a real democracy is debatable.\n\nThe pure form of direct democracy exists only in the Swiss cantons of Appenzell Innerrhoden and Glarus. The Swiss Confederation is a semi-direct democracy (representative democracy with strong instruments of direct democracy). The nature of direct democracy in Switzerland is fundamentally complemented by its federal governmental structures (in German also called the ).\n\nMost western countries have representative systems. Switzerland is a rare example of a country with instruments of direct democracy (at the levels of the municipalities, cantons, and federal state). Citizens have more power than in a representative democracy. On any political level citizens can propose changes to the constitution (popular initiative), or ask for an optional referendum to be held on any law voted by the federal, cantonal parliament and/or municipal legislative body.\n\nThe list for mandatory or optional referendums on each political level are generally much longer in Switzerland than in any other country; for example any amendment to the constitution must automatically be voted on by the Swiss electorate and cantons, on cantonal/communal levels often any financial decision of a certain substantial amount decreed by legislative and/or executive bodies as well.\n\nSwiss citizens vote regularly on any kind of issue on every political level, such as financial approvals of a school house or the building of a new street, or the change of the policy regarding sexual work, or on constitutional changes, or on the foreign policy of Switzerland, four times a year. Between January 1995 and June 2005, Swiss citizens voted 31 times, on 103 federal questions besides many more cantonal and municipal questions. During the same period, French citizens participated in only two referendums.\n\nIn Switzerland, simple majorities are sufficient at the municipal and cantonal level, but at the federal level double majorities are required on constitutional issues.\n\nA double majority requires approval by a majority of individuals voting, and also by a majority of cantons. Thus, in Switzerland a citizen-proposed amendment to the federal constitution (i.e. popular initiative) cannot be passed at the federal level if a majority of the people approve but a majority of the cantons disapprove. For referendums or propositions in general terms (like the principle of a general revision of the Constitution), a majority of those voting is sufficient (Swiss Constitution, 2005).\n\nIn 1890, when the provisions for Swiss national citizen lawmaking were being debated by civil society and government, the Swiss adopted the idea of double majorities from the United States Congress, in which House votes were to represent the people and Senate votes were to represent the states. According to its supporters, this \"legitimacy-rich\" approach to national citizen lawmaking has been very successful. Kris Kobach claims that Switzerland has had tandem successes both socially and economically which are matched by only a few other nations. Kobach states at the end of his book, \"Too often, observers deem Switzerland an oddity among political systems. It is more appropriate to regard it as a pioneer.\" Finally, the Swiss political system, including its direct democratic devices in a multi-level governance context, becomes increasingly interesting for scholars of European Union integration.\n\nIn 1871 after the establishment of the Paris Commune, the Parisians established a decentralized direct system of government with appointed organizers to make sense of the largely spontaneous uprising. While it still refused women the right to vote, they were heavily involved in the consensus before votes took place. Everything from the military to when meetings took place was democratized, and such decentralization and aforementioned democratization led many members of the First Internationale to regard the Paris Commune as a stateless society.\n\nDue to the short lifespan of the Commune, only one citywide election was held and the structures necessary to facilitate future organized elections on large scales was largely nonexistent. However, the influence of direct democratization in the Paris Commune is not to be understated.\n\nIn the New England region of the United States, towns in areas such as Vermont decide local affairs through the direct democratic process of the town meeting. This is the oldest form of direct democracy in the United States, and predates the founding of the country by at least a century.\n\nDirect democracy was not what the framers of the United States Constitution envisioned for the nation. They saw a danger in tyranny of the majority. As a result, they advocated a representative democracy in the form of a constitutional republic over a direct democracy. For example, James Madison, in Federalist No. 10, advocates a constitutional republic over direct democracy precisely to protect the individual from the will of the majority. He says,\n\nJohn Witherspoon, one of the signers of the Declaration of Independence, said: \"Pure democracy cannot subsist long nor be carried far into the departments of state – it is very subject to caprice and the madness of popular rage.\" Alexander Hamilton said, \"That a pure democracy if it were practicable would be the most perfect government. Experience has proved that no position is more false than this. The ancient democracies in which the people themselves deliberated never possessed one good feature of government. Their very character was tyranny; their figure, deformity.\"\n\nDespite the framers' intentions in the beginning of the republic, ballot measures and their corresponding referendums have been widely used at the state and sub-state level. There is much state and federal case law, from the early 1900s to the 1990s, that protects the people's right to each of these direct democracy governance components (Magleby, 1984, and Zimmerman, 1999). The first United States Supreme Court ruling in favor of the citizen lawmaking was in \"Pacific States Telephone and Telegraph Company v. Oregon\", 223 U.S. 118 in 1912 (Zimmerman, December 1999). President Theodore Roosevelt, in his \"Charter of Democracy\" speech to the 1912 Ohio constitutional convention, stated: \"I believe in the Initiative and Referendum, which should be used not to destroy representative government, but to correct it whenever it becomes misrepresentative.\"\n\nIn various states, referendums through which the people rule include:\n\nTerritories held by the Zapatistas in Mexico also employ elements of direct democracy. At a local level, people attend a general assembly of around 300 families where anyone over the age of 12 can participate in decision-making, these assemblies strive to reach a consensus but are willing to fall back to a majority vote. Each community has 3 main administrative structures: (1) the \"commissariat\", in charge of day-to day administration; (2) the \"council for land control\", which deals with forestry and disputes with neighboring communities; and (3) the \"agencia\", a community police agency. The communities form a federation with other communities to create an autonomous municipalities, which form further federations with other municipalities to create a region. The Zapatistas are composed of five regions, in total having a population of around 300,000 people.\n\nIn Syrian Kurdistan, in the cantons of Rojava, a new model of polity is exercised by the Kurdish freedom movement, that of Democratic confederalism. This model has been developed by Abdullah Öcalan, the leader of the Kurdistan Workers' Party, on the basis of the Kurdish revolutionary experience and traditions, and of the theory of Communalism developed by Murray Bookchin. At the opposite of the Nation-State model of sovereignty, Democratic confederalism rests on the principle of radical self-government, where political decisions are taken in popular assemblies at the level of the commune, which will send delegates to the confederate level of the district and the canton. This bottom-up political structure coexists with the democratic self-administration, as organized in the Charter of the Social Contract adopted by the cantons of Rojava in 2014. These two structures constitute a situation characterized as one of dual power by David Graeber, though a peculiar one as they are both formed by the same movement.\n\nCompared to other experiences categorized as ones of direct democracy such as OWS, the Rojava experiment presents only several elements of direct democracy, namely the organization of the self-governing communes in popular assemblies where everybody can participate, the confederation of these communes through imperative and recallable mandates, the rotation of charges (often biannually) and the absence of a centralized power. In theory, Öcalan describes the principle of Democratic Confederalism as follows: \"In contrast to a centralist and bureaucratic understanding of administration and exercise of power confederalism poses a type of political self-administration where all groups of the society and all cultural identities can express themselves in local meetings, general conventions and councils.\". In practice, Rojava is organized on a system of \"Four Level Councils\": the Commune, the Neighborhood, the District, and the People's Council of West Kurdistan. Each level nominates delegates for the next level with imperative mandates as well as recallable mandates.\n\nAs democratic autonomy rests on the equal political engagement of members of the community, the Kurdish women's movement aims at changing the historical exclusion of women from the public sphere as well as at educating women, creating space where they can participate and produce their own decisions. This commitment to women's liberation is instantiated in the principle of dual leadership and 40 percent quota and in the many political spaces created for women's education as well as their political and economic emancipation. Women are therefore fully included in the project of direct democracy. In order to contribute to their political emancipation, Kurdish women created a new science, Jineologî or \"women's science\", in order to give to women access to knowledge, the very foundation of power in society. Moreover, political emancipation is not seen as sufficient to ensure women's liberation if it does not rest on the possibility of women for self-defense. Therefore, Kurdish women created the Women's Protection Units (YPJ) which forms, along with the People's Protection Units (YPG), the Kurdish armed forces.\n\nThe Rojava cantons are governed through a combination of district and civil councils. District councils consist of 300 members as well as two elected co-presidents- one man and one woman. District councils decide and carry out administrative and economic duties such as garbage collection, land distribution and cooperative enterprises. `\n\nDemocratic theorists have identified a trilemma due to the presence of three desirable characteristics of an ideal system of direct democracy, which are challenging to deliver all at once. These three characteristics are \"participation\" – widespread participation in the decision making process by the people affected; \"deliberation\" – a rational discussion where all major points of view are weighted according to evidence; and \"equality\" – all members of the population on whose behalf decisions are taken have an equal chance of having their views taken into account. Empirical evidence from dozens of studies suggests deliberation leads to better decision making. The most popularly disputed form of direct popular participation is the referendum on constitutional matters.\n\nFor the system to respect the principle of political equality, either \"everyone\" needs to be involved or there needs to be a representative random sample of people chosen to take part in the discussion. In the definition used by scholars such as James Fishkin, deliberative democracy is a form of direct democracy which satisfies the requirement for deliberation and equality but does not make provision to involve everyone who wants to be included in the discussion. Participatory democracy, by Fishkin's definition, allows inclusive participation and deliberation, but at a cost of sacrificing equality, because if widespread participation is allowed, sufficient resources rarely will be available to compensate people who sacrifice their time to participate in the deliberation. Therefore, participants tend to be those with a strong interest in the issue to be decided and often will not therefore be representative of the overall population. Fishkin instead argues that random sampling should be used to select a small, but still representative, number of people from the general public.\n\nFishkin concedes it is possible to imagine a system that transcends the trilemma, but it would require very radical reforms if such a system were to be integrated into mainstream politics.\n\nAnarchists have advocated forms of direct democracy as an alternative to the centralized state and capitalism; however, others (such as individualist anarchists) have criticized direct democracy and democracy in general for ignoring the rights of the minority, and instead have advocated a form of consensus decision-making. Libertarian Marxists, however, fully support direct democracy in the form of the proletarian republic and see majority rule and citizen participation as virtues. The Young Communist League USA in particular refers to representative democracy as \"bourgeois democracy\", implying that they see direct democracy as \"true democracy\".\n\nDemocratic schools modeled on Summerhill School resolve conflicts and make school policy decisions through full school meetings in which the votes of students and staff are weighted equally.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4928626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4928626", "title": "DomainKeys Identified Mail", "text": "DomainKeys Identified Mail\n\nDomainKeys Identified Mail (DKIM) is an email authentication method designed to detect forged sender addresses in emails, (email spoofing), a technique often used in phishing and email spam. \n\nDKIM allows the receiver to check that an email claimed to have come from a specific domain was indeed authorized by the owner of that domain. It achieves this by affixing a digital signature, linked to a domain name, to each outgoing email message. The recipient system can verify this by looking up the signer's public key published in the DNS. A valid signature also guarantees that some parts of the email (possibly including attachments) have not been modified since the signature was affixed. Usually, DKIM signatures are not visible to end-users, and are affixed or verified by the infrastructure rather than the message's authors and recipients.\n\nDKIM is defined in RFC 6376, dated September 2011, as a \"Proposed standard\".\n\nDKIM resulted in 2004 from merging two similar efforts, \"enhanced DomainKeys\" from Yahoo and \"Identified Internet Mail\" from Cisco. This merged specification has been the basis for a series of IETF standards-track specifications and support documents which eventually resulted in STD 76, currently RFC 6376.\n\"Identified Internet Mail\" was proposed by Cisco as a signature-based mail authentication standard,\nwhile DomainKeys was designed by Yahoo to verify the DNS domain of an e-mail sender and the message integrity.\n\nAspects of DomainKeys, along with parts of Identified Internet Mail, were combined to create DomainKeys Identified Mail (DKIM).\nTrendsetting providers implementing DKIM include Yahoo, Gmail, AOL and FastMail. Any mail from these organizations should carry a DKIM signature.\n\nDKIM became one of the two pillars on which DMARC was founded, in the early 2010s. Discussions about DKIM signatures passing through indirect mail flows, formally in the DMARC working group, took place right after the first adoptions of the new protocol wreaked havoc on regular mailing list use. However, none of the proposed DKIM changes passed. Instead, mailing list software was changed.\n\nIn 2017, another working group was launched, DKIM Crypto Update (dcrup), with the specific restriction to review signing techniques. RFC 8301 was issued in January 2018. It bans SHA-1 and updates key sizes (from 512-2048 to 1024-4096). RFC 8463 was issued in September 2018. It adds an elliptic curve algorithm to the existing RSA. The added key type, codice_1 is adequately strong while featuring short public keys, more easily publishable in DNS.\n\nThe original \"DomainKeys\" was designed by Mark Delany of Yahoo! and enhanced through comments from many others since 2004. It is specified in Historic RFC 4870, superseded by Standards Track RFC 4871, DomainKeys Identified Mail (DKIM) Signatures; both published in May 2007. A number of clarifications and conceptualizations were collected thereafter and specified in RFC 5672, August 2009, in the form of corrections to the existing specification. In September 2011, RFC 6376 merged and updated the latter two documents, while preserving the substance of the DKIM protocol. Public key compatibility with the earlier DomainKeys is also possible.\n\nDKIM was initially produced by an informal industry consortium and was then submitted for enhancement and standardization by the IETF DKIM Working Group, chaired by Barry Leiba and Stephen Farrell, with \nEric Allman of sendmail,\nJon Callas of PGP Corporation, Mark Delany and Miles Libbey of Yahoo!, and Jim Fenton and Michael Thomas of Cisco Systems attributed as primary authors.\n\nSource code development of one common library is led by \"The OpenDKIM Project\", following the most recent protocol additions, and licensing under the New BSD License.\n\nDKIM provides for two distinct operations, signing and verifying. Either of them can be handled by a module of a mail transfer agent (MTA). The signing organization can be a direct handler of the message, such as the author, the submission site or a further intermediary along the transit path, or an indirect handler such as an independent service that is providing assistance to a direct handler. Signing modules insert one or more codice_2 header fields, possibly on behalf of the \"author\" organization or the originating service provider. Verifying modules typically act on behalf of the \"receiver\" organization, possibly at each hop.\n\nThe need for this type of validated identification arose because spam often has forged addresses and content. For example, a spam message may claim to be from sender@example.com, although it is not actually from that address or domain or entity, and the spammer's goal is to convince the recipient to accept and to read the email. It is difficult for recipients to establish whether to trust or distrust any particular message or even domain, and system administrators may have to deal with complaints about spam that appears to have originated from their systems but did not. DKIM specification allows signers to choose which header fields they sign, but the codice_3 field must always be signed.\nDKIM allows the signer (\"author\" organization) to communicate which emails it considers legitimate. It does not directly prevent or disclose abusive behavior. This ability to distinguish legitimate mail from potentially forged mail has benefits for recipients of e-mail as well as senders.\n\nDKIM is independent of Simple Mail Transfer Protocol (SMTP) routing aspects in that it operates on the RFC 5322 message—the transported mail's header and body—not the SMTP envelope defined in RFC 5321. Hence the DKIM signature survives basic relaying across multiple MTAs.\n\nThe codice_4 header field consists of a list of codice_5 parts. Tags are short, usually only one or two letters. The most relevant ones are b for the actual digital signature of the contents (headers and body) of the mail message, bh for the body hash, d for the signing domain, and s for the selector. The default parameters for the authentication mechanism are to use SHA-256 as the cryptographic hash and RSA as the public key encryption scheme, and encode the encrypted hash using Base64.\n\nBoth header and body contribute to the signature. First, the message body is hashed, always from the beginning, possibly truncated at a given length (which may be zero). Second, selected header fields are hashed, in the order given by h. Repeated field names are matched from the bottom of the header upward, which is the order in which codice_6 fields are inserted in the header. A non-existing field matches the empty string, so that adding a field with that name will break the signature. The codice_2 field of the signature being created, with bh equal to the computed body hash and b equal to the empty string, is implicitly added to the second hash, albeit its name must not appear in h —if it does, it refers to another, preexisting signature. For both hashes, text is canonicalized according to the relevant c algorithms. The result, after encryption with the private key and encoding using Base64, is b. Algorithms, fields, and body length are meant to be chosen so as to assure unambiguous message identification while still allowing signatures to survive the unavoidable changes which are going to occur in transit. No data integrity is implied.\n\nThe receiving SMTP server uses the domain name and the selector to perform a DNS lookup. For example, given the signature\n\nA verifier queries the TXT resource record type of codice_8. Here, codice_9 is the \"author\" domain to be verified against (in the d field), codice_10 is a selector given in the s field while codice_11 is a fixed part of the protocol. There are no CAs nor revocation lists involved in DKIM key management, and the selector is a straightforward method to allow signers to add and remove keys whenever they wish—long lasting signatures for archival purposes are outside DKIM's scope. Some more tags are visible in the example:\n\nThe data returned from the query is also a list of tag-value pairs. It includes the domain's public key, along with other key usage tokens and flags. The receiver can use this to then decrypt the hash value in the header field and at the same time recalculate the hash value for the mail message (headers and body) that was received. If the two values match, this cryptographically proves that the mail was signed by the indicated domain and has not been tampered with in transit.\n\nSignature verification failure does not force rejection of the message. Instead, the precise reasons why the authenticity of the message could not be proven should be made available to downstream and upstream processes. Methods for doing so may include sending back an FBL message, or adding an \"Authentication-Results\" header field to the message as described in RFC 7001.\n\nDomainKeys is covered by assigned to Yahoo! Inc. For the purpose of the DKIM IETF Working Group, Yahoo! released the now obsolete DK library under a dual license scheme: the \"DomainKeys Patent License Agreement v1.2\", an unsigned version of which can still be found, and \"GNU General Public License v2.0 (and no other version)\".\n\nThe primary advantage of this system for e-mail recipients is in allowing the signing domain to reliably identify a stream of legitimate email, thereby allowing domain-based blacklists and whitelists to be more effective. This is also likely to make certain kinds of phishing attacks easier to detect.\n\nThere are some incentives for mail senders to sign outgoing e-mail:\n\nDKIM is a method of labeling a message, and it does not itself filter or identify spam. \nHowever, widespread use of DKIM can prevent spammers from forging the source address of their messages, a technique they commonly employ today. \nIf spammers are forced to show a correct source domain, other filtering techniques can work more effectively. \nIn particular, the source domain can feed into a reputation system to better identify spam. \nConversely, DKIM can make it easier to identify mail that is known not to be spam and need not be filtered. \nIf a receiving system has a whitelist of known good sending domains, either locally maintained or from third party certifiers, it can skip the filtering on signed mail from those domains, and perhaps filter the remaining mail more aggressively.\n\nDKIM can be useful as an anti-phishing technology. Mailers in heavily phished domains can sign their mail to show that it is\ngenuine. Recipients can take the absence of a valid signature on mail from those domains to be an indication that the mail is probably forged. The best way to determine the set of domains that merit this degree of scrutiny remains an open question. DKIM used to have an optional feature called ADSP that lets authors that sign all their mail self-identify, but it was demoted to historic status in November 2013. Instead, DMARC can be used for the same purpose and allows domains to self-publish which techniques (including SPF and DKIM) they employ, which makes it easier for the receiver to make an informed decision whether a certain mail is spam or not. For example, using DMARC, eBay and PayPal both publish policies that all of their mail is authenticated, and requesting that any receiving system, such as Gmail, should reject any that is not.\n\nBecause it is implemented using DNS records and an added RFC 5322 header field, DKIM is compatible with the existing e-mail infrastructure. In particular, it is transparent to existing e-mail systems that lack DKIM support.\n\nThis design approach also is compatible with other, related services, such as the S/MIME and OpenPGP content-protection standards.\nDKIM is compatible with the DNSSEC standard and with SPF.\n\nDKIM requires cryptographic checksums to be generated for each message sent through a mail server, which results in computational overhead not otherwise required for e-mail delivery. This additional computational overhead is a hallmark of digital postmarks, making sending bulk spam more (computationally) expensive.\nThis facet of DKIM may look similar to hashcash, except that the receiver side verification is not a negligible amount of work, and a typical hashcash algorithm would require far more work.\n\nDKIM's non-repudiation feature prevents senders (such as spammers) from credibly denying having sent an email. It has proven useful to news media sources such as WikiLeaks, which has been able to leverage DKIM body signatures to prove that leaked emails were genuine and not tampered with, definitively repudiating claims by Hillary Clinton's 2016 US Presidential Election running mate Tim Kaine, and DNC Chair Donna Brazile.\n\nThe RFC itself identifies a number of potential attack vectors.\n\nDKIM signatures do not encompass the message envelope, which holds the return-path and message recipients. Since DKIM does not attempt to protect against mis-addressing, this does not affect its utility.\n\nA concern for any cryptographic solution would be message replay\nabuse, which bypasses techniques that currently limit the level of abuse from larger domains. Replay can be inferred by using per-message public keys, tracking the DNS queries for those keys and filtering out the high number of queries due to e-mail being sent to large mailing lists or malicious queries by bad actors.\n\nFor a comparison of different methods also addressing this problem see e-mail authentication.\n\nAs mentioned above, authentication is not the same as abuse prevention. An evil email user of a reputable domain can compose a bad message and have it DKIM-signed and sent from that domain to any mailbox from where they can retrieve it as a file, so as to obtain a signed copy of the message. Use of the l tag in signatures makes doctoring such messages even easier. The signed copy can then be forwarded to a million recipients, for example through a botnet, without control. The email provider who signed the message can block the offending user, but cannot stop the diffusion of already-signed messages. The validity of signatures in such messages can be limited by always including an expiration time tag in signatures, or by revoking a public key periodically or upon a notification of an incident. Effectiveness of the scenario can hardly be limited by filtering outgoing mail, as that implies the ability to detect if a message might potentially be useful to spammers.\n\nDKIM currently features two canonicalization algorithms, simple and relaxed, neither of which is MIME-aware. Mail servers can legitimately convert to a different character set, and often document this with \"X-MIME-Autoconverted\" header fields. In addition, servers in certain circumstances have to rewrite the MIME structure, thereby altering the \"preamble\", the \"epilogue\", and entity boundaries, any of which breaks DKIM signatures. Only plain text messages written in us-ascii, provided that MIME header fields are not signed, enjoy the robustness that end-to-end integrity requires.\n\nThe OpenDKIM Project organized a data collection involving 21 mail servers and millions of messages. 92.3% of observed signatures were successfully verified, a success rate that drops slightly (90.5%) when only mailing list traffic is considered.\n\nThe problems might be exacerbated when filtering or relaying software makes changes to a message. Without specific precaution implemented by the sender, the footer addition operated by most mailing lists and many central antivirus solutions will break the DKIM signature. A possible mitigation is to sign only designated number of bytes of the message body. It is indicated by l tag in DKIM-Signature header. Anything added beyond the specified length of the message body is not taken into account while calculating DKIM signature. This won't work for MIME messages.\n\nAnother workaround is to whitelist known forwarders; e.g., by SPF. For yet another workaround, it was proposed that forwarders verify the signature, modify the email, and then re-sign the message with a Sender: header. However, it should be noted that this solution has its risk with forwarded 3rd party signed messages received at SMTP receivers supporting the RFC 5617 ADSP protocol. Thus, in practice, the receiving server still has to whitelist known \"message streams\".\n\nIn October 2012, \"Wired\" reported that mathematician Zach Harris detected and demonstrated an email source spoofing vulnerability with short DKIM keys for the codice_12 corporate domain, as well as several other high-profile domains. He stated that authentication with 384-bit keys can be factored in as little as 24 hours \"on my laptop,\" and 512-bit keys, in about 72 hours with cloud computing resources. Harris found that many organizations sign email with such short keys; he factored them all and notified the organizations of the vulnerability. He states that 768-bit keys could be factored with access to very large amounts of computing power, so he suggests that DKIM signing should use key lengths greater than 1,024. \n\n\"Wired\" stated that Harris reported, and Google confirmed, that they began using new longer keys soon after his disclosure. According to RFC 6376 the receiving party must be able to validate signatures with keys ranging from 512 bits to 2048 bits, thus usage of keys shorter than 512 bits might be incompatible and shall be avoided. The RFC 6376 also states that signers must use keys of at least 1024 bits for long-lived keys, though long-livingness is not specified there.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "986871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=986871", "title": "Drug test", "text": "Drug test\n\nA drug test is a technical analysis of a biological specimen, for example urine, hair, blood, breath, sweat, and/or oral fluid/saliva — to determine the presence or absence of specified parent drugs or their metabolites. Major applications of drug testing include detection of the presence of performance enhancing steroids in sport, employers and parole/probation officers screening for drugs prohibited by law (such as cannabis, cocaine, methamphetamine, and heroin) and police officers testing for the presence and concentration of alcohol (ethanol) in the blood commonly referred to as BAC (blood alcohol content). BAC tests are typically administered via a breathalyzer while urinalysis is used for the vast majority of drug testing in sports and the workplace. Numerous other methods with varying degrees of accuracy, sensitivity (detection threshold/cutoff), and detection periods exist.\n\nA drug test may also refer to a test that provides quantitative chemical analysis of an illegal drug, typically intended to help with responsible drug use.\n\nThe following chart gives approximate detection periods for each substance by test type.\n\nThe detection windows depend upon multiple factors: drug class, amount and frequency of use, metabolic rate, body mass, age, overall health, and urine pH. For ease of use, the detection times of metabolites have been incorporated into each parent drug. For example, heroin and cocaine can only be detected for a few hours after use, but their metabolites can be detected for several days in urine. The chart depicts the longer detection times of the metabolites.\n\nOral fluid or saliva testing results for the most part mimic that of blood. The only exceptions are THC (tetrahydrocannabinol) and benzodiazepines. Oral fluid will likely detect THC from ingestion up to a maximum period of 6–12 hours. This continues to cause difficulty in oral fluid detection of THC and benzodiazepines.\n\nBreath air for the most part mimics blood tests as well. Due to the very low levels of substances in the breath air, liquid chromatography—mass spectrometry has to be used to analyze the sample according to a recent publication wherein 12 analytes were investigated.\n\nRapid oral fluid products are not approved for use in workplace drug testing programs and are not FDA cleared. Using rapid oral fluid drug tests in the workplace is prohibited in only:\n\nUrine analysis is primarily used because of its low cost. Urine drug testing is one of the most common testing methods used. The enzyme-multiplied immune test is the most frequently used urinalysis. Complaints have been made about the relatively high rates of false positives using this test.\n\nUrine drug tests screen the urine for the presence of a parent drug or its metabolites. The level of drug or its metabolites is not predictive of when the drug was taken or how much the patient used. Rather, it is simply a confirmatory report indicating the presence of the parent drug or its metabolites.\n\nUrine drug testing is an immunoassay based on the principle of competitive binding. Drugs which may be present in the urine specimen compete against their respective drug conjugate for binding sites on their specific antibody. During testing, a urine specimen migrates upward by capillary action. A drug, if present in the urine specimen below its cut-off concentration, will not saturate the binding sites of its specific antibody. The antibody will then react with the drug-protein conjugate and a visible colored line will show up in the test line region of the specific drug strip.\n\nWhen an employer requests a drug test from an employee, or a physician requests a drug test from a patient, the employee or patient is typically instructed to go to a collection site or their home. The urine sample goes through a specified 'chain of custody' to ensure that it is not tampered with or invalidated through lab or employee error. The patient or employee’s urine is collected at a remote location in a specially designed secure cup, sealed with tamper-resistant tape, and sent to a testing laboratory to be screened for drugs (typically the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration 5 panel). The first step at the testing site is to split the urine into two aliquots. One aliquot is first screened for drugs using an analyzer that performs immunoassay as the initial screen. To ensure the specimen integrity and detecting possible adulterant, some other parameters such as, urine creatinine, pH, and specific gravity are tested along in this initial test. If the urine screen is positive then another aliquot of the sample is used to confirm the findings by gas chromatography—mass spectrometry (GC-MS) or liquid chromatography - mass spectrometry methodology. If requested by the physician or employer, certain drugs are screened for individually; these are generally drugs part of a chemical class that are, for one of many reasons, considered more abuse-prone or of concern. For instance, oxycodone and diamorphine may be tested, both sedative analgesics. If such a test is not requested specifically, the more general test (in the preceding case, the test for opiates) will detect the drugs, but the employer or physician will not have the benefit of the identity of the drug.\n\nEmployment-related test results are relayed to a medical review office (MRO) where a medical physician reviews the results. If the result of the screen is negative, the MRO informs the employer that the employee has no detectable drug in the urine, typically within 24 hours. However, if the test result of the immunoassay and GC-MS are non-negative and show a concentration level of parent drug or metabolite above the established limit, the MRO contacts the employee to determine if there is any legitimate reason—such as a medical treatment or prescription.\n\nOn-site instant drug testing is a more cost-efficient method of effectively detecting drug abuse amongst employees, as well as in rehabilitation programs to monitor patient progress. These instant tests can be used for both urine and saliva testing. Although the accuracy of such tests varies with the manufacturer, some kits boast extremely high rates of accuracy, correlating closely with laboratory test results.\n\nBreath test is a widespread method for quickly determining alcohol intoxication. A breath test measures the alcohol concentration in the body by a deep-lung breath. There are different instruments used for measuring the alcohol content of an individual though their breath. Breathalyzer is a widely known instrument which was developed in 1954 and contained chemicals unlike other breath-testing instruments. More modernly used instruments are the infrared light-absorption devices and fuel cell detectors, these two testers are microprocessor controlled meaning the operator only has to press the start button.\n\nTo get accurate readings on a breath-testing device the individual must blow for approximately 6 seconds and need to contain roughly 1.1 to 1.5 liters of breath. For a breath-test to result accurately and truly an operator must take steps such as avoiding measuring “mouth alcohol” which is a result from regurgitation, belching, or recent intake of an alcoholic beverage. To avoid measuring “mouth alcohol” the operator must not allow the individual that’s taking the test to consume any materials for at least fifteen minutes before the breath test. When pulled over for a driving violation if an individual in the United States refuses to take a breath test that individual's driver's license can be suspend for a 6 to 12 months time period.\n\nHair analysis to detect drugs of abuse has been used by court systems in the United States, United Kingdom, Canada, and other countries worldwide. In the United States, hair testing has been accepted in court cases as forensic evidence following the Frye Rule, the Federal Rules of Evidence, and the Daubert Rule. As such, hair testing results are legally and scientifically recognized as admissible evidence. \n\nAlthough some lower courts may have accepted hair test evidence, there is no controlling judicial ruling in either the federal or any state system declaring any type of hair test as reliable.\n\nHair testing is now recognized in both the UK and US judicial systems. There are guidelines for hair testing that have been published by the Society of Hair Testing (a private company in France) that specify the markers to be tested for and the cutoff concentrations that need to be tested. Drugs of abuse that can be detected include Cannabis, Cocaine, Amphetamines and drugs new to the UK such as Mephedrone.\n\nIn contrast to other drugs consumed, alcohol is deposited directly in the hair. For this reason the investigation procedure looks for direct products of ethanol metabolism. The main part of alcohol is oxidized in the human body. This means it is released as water and carbon dioxide. One part of the alcohol reacts with fatty acids to produce esters. The sum of the concentrations of four of these fatty acid ethyl esters (FAEEs: ethyl myristate, ethyl palmitate, ethyl oleate and ethyl stearate) are used as indicators of the alcohol consumption. The amounts found in hair are measured in nanograms (one nanogram equals only one billionth of a gram), however with the benefit of modern technology, it is possible to detect such small amounts. In the detection of ethyl glucuronide, or EtG, testing can detect amounts in picograms (one picogram equals 0.001 nanograms).\n\nHowever, there is one major difference between most drugs and alcohol metabolites in the way in which they enter into the hair: on the one hand like other drugs FAEEs enter into the hair via the keratinocytes, the cells responsible for hair growth. These cells form the hair in the root and then grow through the skin surface taking any substances with them. On the other hand, the sebaceous glands produce FAEEs in the scalp and these migrate together with the sebum along the hair shaft (Auwärter et al., 2001, Pragst et al., 2004). So these glands lubricate not only the part of the hair that is just growing at 0.3 mm per day on the skin surface, but also the more mature hair growth, providing it with a protective layer of fat.\n\nFAEEs (nanogram = one billionth of a gram) appear in hair in almost one order of magnitude lower than (the relevant order of magnitude of) EtG (picogram = one trillionth of a gram). It has been technically possible to measure FAEEs since 1993, and the first study reporting the detection of EtG in hair was done by Sachs in 1993.\n\nIn practice, most hair which is sent for analysis has been cosmetically treated in some way (bleached, permed etc.). It has been proven that FAEEs are not significantly affected by such treatments (Hartwig et al., 2003a). FAEE concentrations in hair from other body sites can be interpreted in a similar fashion as scalp hair (Hartwig et al., 2003b).\n\nPresumptive substance tests identify a suspicious substance, material or surface where traces of drugs are thought to be, instead of testing individuals through biological methods such as urine or hair testing. The test involves mixing the suspicious material with a chemical in order to trigger a color change to indicate if a drug is present. Most are now available over-the-counter, and do not require a lab to read results.\n\nBenefits to this method include that the person who is suspected of drug use does not need to be confronted or aware of testing. Only a very small amount of material is needed to obtain results, and can be used to test powder, pills, capsules, crystals, or organic material. There is also the ability to detect illicit material when mixed with other non-illicit materials. The tests are used for general screening purposes, offering a generic result for the presence of a wide range of drugs, including Heroin, Cocaine, Methamphetamine, Amphetamine, Ecstasy/MDMA, Methadone, Ketamine, PCP, PMA, DMT, MDPV, and may detect rapidly evolving synthetic designer drugs. Separate tests for Marijuana/Hashish are also available.\n\nThere are five primary color-tests reagents used for general screening purposes. The Marquis reagent turns into a variety of colors when in the presence of different substances. Dille-Koppanyi reagent uses two chemical solutions which turns a violet-blue color in the presence of barbiturates. Duquenois-Levine reagent is a series of chemical solutions that turn to the color of purple when the vegetation of marijuana is added. Van Urk reagent turns blue-purple when in the presence of LSD. Scott Test's chemical solution shows up as a faint blue for cocaine base.\n\nSaliva / oral fluid-based drug tests can generally detect use during the previous few days. Is better at detecting very recent use of a substance. THC may only be detectable for 2–24 hours in most cases. On site drug tests are allowed per the Department of Labor.\n\nDetection in saliva tests begins almost immediately upon use of the following substances, and lasts for approximately the following times:\n\n\nA disadvantage of saliva based drug testing is that it is not approved by FDA or SAMHSA for use with DOT / Federal Mandated Drug Testing. Oral fluid is not considered a bio-hazard unless there is visible blood; however, it should be treated with care.\n\nSweat patches are attached to the skin to collect sweat over a long period of time (up to 14 days). These are used by child protective services, parole departments, and other government institutions concerned with drug use over long periods, when urine testing is not practical. There are also surface drug tests that test for the metabolite of parent drug groups in the residue of drugs left in sweat.\n\nDrug-testing a blood sample measures whether or not a drug or a metabolite is in the body at a particular time. These types of tests are considered to be the most accurate way of telling if a person is intoxicated. Blood drug tests are not used very often because they need specialized equipment and medically trained administrators.\n\nDepending on how much marijuana was consumed, it can usually be detected in blood tests within six hours of consumption. After six hours has passed, the concentration of marijuana in the blood decreases significantly. It generally disappears completely within 30 days.\n\nAnabolic steroids are used to enhance performance in sports and as they are prohibited in most high-level competitions drug testing is used extensively in order to enforce this prohibition. This is particularly so in individual (rather than team) sports such as athletics and cycling.\n\nCan occur at any time, usually when the investigator has reason to believe that a substance is possibly being abused by the subject by behavior or immediately after an employee-related incident occurs during work hours. Testing protocol typically conforms to the national medical standard, candidates are given up to 120 minutes to reasonably produce a urine sample from the time of commencement (in some instances this time frame may be extended at the examiners discretion).\n\nIn the case of life-threatening symptoms, unconsciousness, or bizarre behavior in an emergency situation, screening for common drugs and toxins may help find the cause, called a \"toxicology test\" or \"tox screen\" to denote the broader area of possible substances beyond just self-administered drugs. These tests can also be done post-mortem during an autopsy in cases where a death was not expected. The test is usually done within 96 hours (4 days) after the desire for the test is realized. Both a urine sample and a blood sample may be tested. A blood sample is routinely used to detect ethanol/methanol and ASA/paracetamol intoxication. Various panels are used for screening urine samples for common substances, e.g. \"triage 8\" that detects amphetamines, benzodiazepines, cocaine, methadone, opiates, cannabis, barbiturates and tricyclic antidepressants. Results are given in 10–15 min.\n\nSimilar screenings may be used to evaluate the possible use of date rape drugs. This is usually done on a urine sample.\n\nBefore testing samples, the tamper-evident seal is checked for integrity. If it appears to have been tampered with or damaged, the laboratory rejects the sample and does not test it.\n\nNext, the sample must be made testable. Urine and oral fluid can be used \"as is\" for some tests, but other tests require the drugs to be extracted from urine. Strands of hair, patches, and blood must be prepared before testing. Hair is washed in order to eliminate second-hand sources of drugs on the surface of the hair, then the keratin is broken down using enzymes. Blood plasma may need to be separated by centrifuge from blood cells prior to testing. Sweat patches are opened and the sweat collection component is removed and soaked in a solvent to dissolve any drugs present.\n\nLaboratory-based drug testing is done in two steps. The first step is the screening test, which is an immunoassay based test applied to all samples. The second step, known as the confirmation test, is usually undertaken by a laboratory using highly specific chromatographic techniques and only applied to samples that test positive during the screening test. Screening tests are usually done by immunoassay (EMIT, ELISA, and RIA are the most common). A \"\" drug testing method which could provide screening test capabilities to field investigators has been developed at the University of Illinois.\n\nAfter a suspected positive sample is detected during screening, the sample is tested using a confirmation test. Samples that are negative on the screening test are discarded and reported as negative. The confirmation test in most laboratories (and all SAMHSA certified labs) is performed using mass spectrometry, and is precise but expensive. False positive samples from the screening test will almost always be negative on the confirmation test. Samples testing positive during both screening and confirmation tests are reported as positive to the entity that ordered the test. Most laboratories save positive samples for some period of months or years in the event of a disputed result or lawsuit. For workplace drug testing, a positive result is generally not confirmed without a review by a Medical Review Officer who will normally interview the subject of the drug test.\n\nUrine drug test kits are available as on-site tests, or laboratory analysis. Urinalysis is the most common test type and used by federally mandated drug testing programs and is considered the Gold Standard of drug testing. Urine based tests have been upheld in most courts for more than 30 years. However, urinalysis conducted by the Department of Defense has been challenged for reliability of testing the metabolite of cocaine. There are two associated metabolites of cocaine, benzoylecgonine (BZ) and ecgonine methyl ester (EME), the first (BZ) is created by the presence of cocaine in an aqeous solution with a pH greater than 7.0, while the second (EME) results from the actual human metabolic process. The presence of EME confirms actual ingestion of cocaine by a human being, while the presence of BZ is indicative only. BZ without EME is evidence of sample contamination, however, the US Department of Defense has chosen not to test for EME in its urinalysis program.\n\nA number of different analyses (defined as the unknown substance being tested for) are available on Urine Drug Screens.\n\nSpray (sweat) drug test kits are non-invasive. It is a simple process to collect the required specimen, no bathroom is needed, no laboratory is required for analysis, and the tests themselves are difficult to manipulate and relatively tamper-resistant. The detection window is long and can detect recent drug use within several hours.\n\nThere are also some disadvantages to spray or sweat testing. There is not much variety in these drug tests, only a limited number of drugs can be detected, prices tend to be higher, and inconclusive results can be produced by variations in sweat production rates in donors. They also have a relatively long specimen collection period and are more vulnerable to contamination than other common forms of testing.\n\nHair drug testing is a method that can detect drug use over a much longer period of time, and is often used for highly safety-critical positions where there is zero tolerance of illegal drug use. Standard hair follicle screen covers a period of 30 to 90 days. The growth of head hair is usually at the rate of 0.5 inches per month. The hair sample is cut close to the scalp and 80 to 120 strands of hair are needed for the test. In the absence of hair on the head, body hair can be used as an acceptable substitute. This includes facial hair, the underarms, arms, and legs or even pubic hair. Because body hair grows at a different rate than head hair, the timeframe changes, with scientists estimating that drug use can be detected in body hair for up to 12 months. Currently, most entities that use hair testing have prescribed consequences for individuals removing hair to avoid a hair drug test.\n\nThe claim that a hair test cannot be tampered with has been shown to be debatable. One study has shown that THC does not readily deposit inside epithelial cells so it is possible for cosmetic and other forms of adulteration to reduce the amount of testable cannabinoids within a hair sample.\n\nThe results of federally mandating drug testing were similar to the effects of simply extending to the trucking industry the right to perform drug tests, and it has been argued that the latter approach would have been as effective at lower cost.\n\nPsychologist Tony Buon has criticized the use of workplace drug testing on a number of grounds, including:\n\n\nTony Buon has also reported by the CIPD as stating that \"drug testing captures the stupid—experienced drug users know how to beat the tests\".\n\nFrom a penological standpoint, one purpose of drug testing is to help classify the \npeople taking the drug test within risk groups so that those who pose more of a danger to the public can be incapacitated through incarceration or other restrictions on liberty. Thus, the drug testing serves a crime control purpose even if there is no expectation of rehabilitating the drug user through treatment, deterring drug use through sanctions, or sending a message that drug use is a deviant behavior that will not be tolerated.\n\nA study in 2004 by the Independent Inquiry into Drug Testing at Work found that attempts by employers to force employees to take drug tests could potentially be challenged as a violation of privacy under the Human Rights Act 1998 and Article 8 of the European Convention of Human Rights. However, this does not apply to industries where drug testing is a matter of personal and public safety or security rather than productivity.\n\nIn consultation with Dr. Carlton Turner, President Ronald Reagan issued Executive Order 12564. In doing so, he instituted mandatory drug-testing for all safety-sensitive executive-level and civil-service Federal employees. This was challenged in the courts by the National Treasury Employees Union. In 1988, this challenge was considered by the US Supreme Court. A similar challenge resulted in the Court extending the drug-free workplace concept to the private sector. These decisions were then incorporated into the White House Drug Control Strategy directive issued by President George H.W. Bush in 1989. All defendants serving on federal probation or federal supervised release are required to submit to at least three drug tests. Failing a drug test can be construed as possession of a controlled substance, resulting in mandatory revocation and imprisonment.\n\nThere have been inconsistent evaluation results as to whether continued pretrial drug testing has beneficial effects.\n\nTesting positive can lead to bail not being granted, or if bail has already been granted, to bail revocation or other sanctions. Arizona also adopted a law in 1987 authorizing mandatory drug testing of felony arrestees for the purpose of informing the pretrial release decision, and the District of Columbia has had a similar law since the 1970s. It has been argued that one of the problems with such testing is that there is often not enough time between the arrest and the bail decision to confirm positive results using GC/MS technology. It has also been argued that such testing potentially implicates the Fifth Amendment privilege against self-incrimination, the right to due process (including the prohibition against gathering evidence in a manner that shocks the conscience or constitutes outrageous government conduct), and the prohibition against unreasonable searches and seizures contained in the Fourth Amendment.\n\nAccording to Henriksson, the anti-drug appeals of the Reagan administration \"created an environment in which many employers felt compelled to implement drug testing programs because failure to do so might be perceived as condoning drug use. This fear was easily exploited by aggressive marketing and sales forces, who often overstated the value of testing and painted a bleak picture of the consequences of failing to use the drug testing product or service being offered.\" On March 10, 1986, the Commission on Organized Crime asked all U.S. companies to test employees for drug use. By 1987, nearly 25% of the Fortune 500 companies used drug tests.\n\nAccording to an uncontrolled self-report study done by DATIA and Society for Human Resource Management in 2012 (sample of 6,000 randomly selected human resource professionals), human resource professionals reported the following results after implementing a drug testing program: 19% of companies reported a subjective increase in employee productivity, 16% reported a decrease in employee turnover (8% reported an increase), and unspecified percentages reported decreases in absenteeism and improvement of workers' compensation incidence rates.\n\nAccording to US Chamber of Commerce 70% of all illicit drug users are employed. Some industries have high rates of employee drug use such as construction (12.8%), repair (11.1%), and hospitality (7.9-16.3%).\n\nA person conducting a business or undertaking (PCBU—the new term that includes employers) has duties under the work health and safety (WHS) legislation to ensure a worker affected by alcohol or other drugs does not place themselves or other persons at risk of injury while at work. Workplace policies and prevention programs can help change the norms and culture around substance abuse.\n\nAll organisations—large and small—can benefit from an agreed policy on alcohol and drug misuse that applies to all workers. Such a policy should form part of an organisations overall health and safety management system. PCBUs are encouraged to establish a policy and procedure, in consultation with workers, to constructively manage alcohol and other drug related hazards in their workplace. A comprehensive workplace alcohol and other drug policy should apply to everyone in the workplace and include prevention, education, counselling and rehabilitation arrangements. In addition, the roles and responsibilities of managers and supervisors should be clearly outlined.\n\nAll Australian workplace drug testing must comply with Australian standard AS/NZS4308:2008.\n\nIn Victoria, roadside saliva tests detect drugs that contain:\n\nIn February 2016 a New South Wales magistrate \"acquitted a man who tested positive for cannabis\". He had been arrested and charged after testing positive during a roadside drug test, despite not having smoked for nine days. He was relying on advice previously given to him by police.\n\nIn the United States federal criminal system, refusing to take a drug test triggers an automatic revocation of probation or supervised release.\n\nIn Victoria, Australia the driver of the car has the option to refuse the drug test. Refusing to undergo a drug test or refusing to undergo a secondary drug test after the first one, triggers an automatic suspension and disqualification for a period of 2 years and a fine of AUD$1000. The second refusal triggers an automatic suspension and disqualification for a period of 4 years and an even larger fine.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13400079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13400079", "title": "Edict of Châteaubriant", "text": "Edict of Châteaubriant\n\nThe Edict of Châteaubriant, issued from the seat of Anne, duc de Montmorency in Brittany, was promulgated by Henri II of France, 27 June 1551. The Edict was one of an increasingly severe series of measures taken by Henry II against Protestants, whom he regarded as heretics. In the preamble, the Edict frankly reported that previous measures against heresy in the kingdom had proved ineffectual. \"Heretics\", the Edict reported, met in conventicles, infected schools, invaded the judicial bench and forced toleration upon judges. To ensure more rigorous judgements, in 1547 Henri had already created a special judicial chamber drawn from members of the \"parlements\", solely to judge cases of heresy, (called by Protestants the \"Chambre Ardente\" (the \"Burning Chamber\"). The Edict contained quite detailed provisions: it called upon the civil and ecclesiastical courts to detect and punish all heretics, and placed severe restrictions on Protestants, including loss of one-third of property granted to informers, who were also granted immunity and confiscations of property both moveable and immovable belonging to those who had fled to Geneva, with whom the king's subjects were forbidden to correspond or to send money. Fourteen of its forty-six articles were concerned with censorship; its terms strictly regulated the press by prohibiting the sale, importation or printing of any book unapproved by the Faculty of Theology at the University of Paris, then or, now it was implied, in the future. Booksellers were to display a copy of the Faculty's printed list of prohibited books alongside a list of books for sale. Delegates of the Faculty were to make visits twice a year to each bookseller to ensure that the provisions were complied with. Since 1542 it had been a requirement that any shipment of books into France be opened and unpacked in the presence of delegates from the Faculty of Theology, which now, according to Roger Doucet, \"assumed the intellectual direction of the kingdom.\"\n\nThough the Edict went so far as to forbid the discussion of religious topics at work, in the fields, or over meals, it proved insufficient to stem the rising tide of reform in religion. Sterner measures would be taken in the next edict of the series, the Edict of Compiègne, 1557, which applied the death penalty for all convictions of heresy.\n\n"}
{"id": "756290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756290", "title": "Entrenched clause", "text": "Entrenched clause\n\nAn entrenched clause or entrenchment clause of a basic law or constitution is a provision that makes certain amendments either more difficult or impossible to pass, making such amendments inadmissible. Overriding an entrenched clause may require a supermajority, a referendum, or the consent of the minority party.\n\nOnce adopted, a properly drafted entrenchment clause makes some portion of a basic law or constitution irrevocable except through the assertion of the right of revolution.\n\nAny amendment to a basic law or constitution which would not satisfy the prerequisites enshrined in a valid entrenched clause would lead to so-called \"unconstitutional constitutional law\", that is, an amendment to constitutional law text that would appear to be constitutional law by its form, albeit unconstitutional due to the procedure used to enact it or due to the content of its provisions.\n\nEntrenched clauses are, in some cases, justified as protecting the rights of a minority from the dangers of majoritarianism. In other cases, the objective may be to prevent amendments to the basic law or constitution which would pervert the fundamental principles enshrined in it. However, entrenched clauses are often challenged by their opponents as being undemocratic.\n\nEternity clauses are a type of entrenched clause.\n\nAs Australian Parliaments have inherited the British principle of parliamentary sovereignty, they may not entrench themselves by a regular act. Therefore, the entrenchment of the national flag in the \"Flags Act\" of 1953 is without force as the entrenchment clause could be removed (through normal legislative amendment) by later parliaments.\n\nThe Commonwealth Constitution is entrenched as it may only be amended by referendum; the amendment must gain the support of a majority of Australian voters nationwide, plus a majority of voters in a majority of states. These provisions are specified in section 128. The Imperial Parliament's power to amend it in Australian law was limited by the \"Statute of Westminster Adoption Act\" 1942 and terminated by the \"Australia Act\" 1986.\n\nState laws respecting the constitution, powers or procedure of the parliament of a state need to follow any restrictions specified in state law on such acts, by virtue of section 6 of the \"Australia Act\". This power does not extend to the whole constitution of the state, and the Parliament of Queensland has ignored entrenchments in amending its constitution. Consequently, it is possible that the entrenchment clauses are unentrenchable, preventing state law from having effectively entrenching clauses.\n\nEntrenched clauses of the Constitution of Brazil are listed in Article 60, Paragraph 4:\n\nArticle X of the Constitution of Bosnia and Herzegovina, defining the amendment procedure, provides in paragraph 2 that the rights and freedoms as established in Article II of the Constitution may not be eliminated or diminished, and that the paragraph 2 itself may not be altered.\n\nArticle 9 of the Czech Constitution, which concerns supplementing and amending the Constitution, states that \"the substantive requisites of the democratic, law-abiding State may not be amended.\" This provision was invoked in 2009 when the Constitutional Court of the Czech Republic abolished a Constitutional Act adopted to invoke one off early legislative election. The disputed act was seen as an individual decision in violation of then-effective constitutional procedure regulating early elections.\n\nThe French Constitution states in Title XVI, Article 89, On Amendments to the Constitution, \"The republican form of government shall not be the object of any amendment\" thus forbidding the restoration of the monarchy or the empire.\n\nThe Basic Law for the Federal Republic of Germany (\"Grundgesetz\") provides in its eternity clause (Article 79 section 3) that any amendment would be \"inadmissible\" if such amendment would provide that the Federal Republic would not consist of states (\"Länder\") any more, that the states would no longer be entitled to participate in the federal law-making procedures, or if \"the basic principles\" of Articles 1 and 20 would be affected. \"The basic principles\" are as follows:\n\n\nThe original purpose of this eternity clause was to ensure that the establishment of any dictatorship in Germany would be clearly illegal; in legal practice the clause was used by plaintiffs at the Federal Constitutional Court challenging constitutional amendments that affected Articles 1, 10, 19, 101, and 103 regarding restrictions of legal recourse. Although these basic principles are protected from being repealed, their particular expression may still be amended; such as to clarify, extend or refine an entrenched principle.\n\nThe Constitution of Honduras has an article stating that the article itself and certain other articles cannot be changed in any circumstances. Article 374 of the Honduras Constitution asserts this unmodifiability, stating, \"It is not possible to reform, in any case, the preceding article, the present article, the constitutional articles referring to the form of government, to the national territory, to the presidential period, the prohibition to serve again as President of the Republic, the citizen who has performed under any title in consequence of which she/he cannot be President of the Republic in the subsequent period.\" This unmodifiable article has played an important role in the 2009 Honduran constitutional crisis.\n\nThe Article 37 on the Chapter 16 of the Constitution of Indonesia manages constitutional amendment procedure, yet it also specifies that the unitary state status of Indonesia is unmodifiable.\n\nThere are several examples of entrenched clauses which ultimately failed in their objectives, since their protections were undermined in unintended ways. The Constitution of the Irish Free State was required in parts to be consistent with the 1922 Anglo-Irish Treaty, including the Oath of Allegiance and the Governor-General. The checks to protect this were removed by, for example, the Irish taking control of advice to the Governor-General, and when the Senate proved obstructive, its abolition.\n\nArticle 139 of the Constitution of Italy, promulgated in 1947, provides that the republican form of government shall not be a matter for constitutional amendment.\n\nAnother example of entrenchment would be the entrenching of portions of the Malaysian Constitution related to the Malaysian social contract, which specifies that citizenship be granted to the substantial Chinese and Indian immigrant populations in return for the recognition of a special position for the indigenous Malay majority. The Constitution did not initially contain an entrenched clause; indeed, one of the articles later entrenched, Article 153, was initially intended to be subject to a sunset clause. However, after the May 13 incident of racial rioting in 1969, Parliament passed the Constitution (Amendment) Act 1971. The Act permitted criminalisation of the questioning of Articles 152, 153, 181, and Part III of the Constitution.\n\nArticle 152 designates the Malay language as the national language of Malaysia; Article 153 grants the Malays special privileges; Article 181 covers the position of the Malay rulers; and Part III deals with matters of citizenship. The restrictions, which even covered Members of Parliament, made the repeal of these sections of the Constitution unamendable or repealable by \"de facto\"; however, to entrench them further, the Act also amended Article 159(5), which covers Constitutional amendments, to prohibit the amending of the aforementioned Articles, as well as Article 159(5), without the consent of the Conference of Rulers — a non-elected body comprising the rulers of the Malay states and the governors of the other states.\n\nIn the Constitution of Morocco, eternity clauses exist that ensure certain provisions cannot be amended, including the role of Islam in the nation's law, and the role of the King of Morocco in law.\n\nSection 268 of the Electoral Act (part of the Constitution of New Zealand) declares that the law governing the maximum term of Parliament, along with certain provisions of the Electoral Act relating to the redistribution of electoral boundaries, the voting age, and the secret ballot, may only be altered either by three-quarters of the entire membership of the House of Representatives, or by a majority of valid votes in a popular referendum. Section 268 itself is not protected by this provision, so a government could legally repeal Section 268 and go on to alter the entrenched portions of law, both with a mere simple majority in Parliament.\n\nAnother example of a failed entrenched clause was in the South Africa Act, the initial constitution of the Union of South Africa. The constitution's entrenched clauses protected voting rights in the Cape Province, including those of some Coloureds, but they lost their votes after the Government restructured the Senate and packed it with its sympathisers so that they were able to achieve the required supermajority in what is known as the Coloured vote constitutional crisis.\n\nArticle 4 of Part 1 of the Constitution of Turkey states that the \"provision of Article 1 of the Constitution establishing the form of the state as a Republic, the provisions in Article 2 on the characteristics of the Republic, and the provision of Article 3 shall not be amended, nor shall their amendment be proposed.\"\n\nThe doctrine of parliamentary supremacy holds that Parliament may pass any law it wishes, including that it can't be limited by previous laws.\n\nNotions of entrenchment have emerged in consideration of a number of constitutional statutes, including the Parliament Acts 1911 and 1949. (See \"Jackson v A-G\" [2005].)\n\nArticle V of the United States Constitution temporarily shielded certain clauses in Article I from being amended. The first clause in Section 9, which prevented Congress from passing any law that would restrict the importation of slaves prior to 1808, and the fourth clause in that same section, a declaration that direct taxes must be apportioned according to the state populations, were explicitly shielded from Constitutional amendment prior to 1808. \n\nArticle V also shields the clause of Article I, Section 3, which provides for equal representation of the states in the United States Senate, from being amended, though not absolutely. This has been interpreted to require unanimous ratification of any amendment altering the composition of the United States Senate. However, the text of the clause would indicate that the size of the Senate could be changed by an ordinary amendment if each state continued to have equal representation.\n\nProvisions may also be entrenched in the constitutions of corporate bodies. An example is in the memoranda and articles of a company limited by guarantee, in which the principles of common ownership may be entrenched. This practice can make it almost impossible for the company's members to dissolve the company and distribute its assets amongst them. This idea has more recently been extended in the UK through the invention of the community interest company (CIC) which incorporates an asset lock. Other companies in the UK may make provision for entrenchment of certain articles so that, for example, the specified articles may only be amended or repealed by agreement of all the members of the company or by a court order. In India there is similar provision in section 5 of the Companies Act 2013.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29387516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29387516", "title": "False accusation", "text": "False accusation\n\nFalse accusations (or groundless accusations or unfounded accusations or false allegations or false claims) can be in any of the following contexts:\n\nWhen there is insufficient supporting evidence to determine whether an accusation is true or false, it is described as \"unsubstantiated\" or \"unfounded\". Accusations that are determined to be false based on corroborating evidence can be divided into three categories:\n\nA false allegation can occur as the result of intentional lying on the part of the accuser; or unintentionally, due to a confabulation, either arising spontaneously due to mental illness or resulting from deliberate or accidental suggestive questioning, or faulty interviewing techniques. Researchers Poole and Lindsay suggested in 1997 applying separate labels to the two concepts, proposing the term \"false allegations\" be used specifically when the accuser is aware they are lying, and \"false suspicions\" for the wider range of false accusations in which suggestive questioning may have been involved.\n\nWhen a person is suspected of a wrongdoing for which they are in fact responsible, \"false accusation may be used to divert attention from one's own guilt\". False accusation may also arise in part from the conduct of the accused, particularly where the accused engages in behaviors consistent with having committed the suspected wrongdoing, either unconsciously or for purposes of appearing guilty. \n\nAdditionally, once a false accusation has been made – particularly an emotionally laden one – normal human emotional responses to being falsely accused (such as fear, anger, or denial of the accusation) may be misinterpreted as evidence of guilt.\n\nA false accusation of rape is the intentional reporting of a rape where no rape has occurred. It is difficult to assess the prevalence of false accusations because they are often conflated with non-prosecuted cases under the designation \"unfounded.\" However, in the United States, the FBI \"Uniform Crime Report\" in 1996 and the United States Department of Justice in 1997 stated 8% of rape accusations in the United States were regarded as unfounded or false. Studies in other countries have reported their own rates at anywhere from 1.5% (Denmark) to 10% (Canada). Due to varying definitions of a \"false accusation\", the true percentage remains unknown.\n\nA false allegation of child sexual abuse is an accusation that a person committed one or more acts of child sexual abuse when in reality there was no perpetration of abuse by the accused person as alleged. Such accusations can be brought by the victim, or by another person on the alleged victim's behalf. Studies of child abuse allegations suggest that the overall rate of false accusation is under 10%, as approximated based on multiple studies. Of the allegations determined to be false, only a small portion originated with the child, the studies showed; most false allegations originated with an adult bringing the accusations on behalf of a child, and of those, a large majority occurred in the context of divorce and child-custody battles.\n\nResearch by the Workplace Bullying Institute, suggests that \"falsely accused someone of 'errors' not actually made\" is the most common of all bullying tactics experienced, in 71 percent of cases.\n\nWorkplace mobbing can be considered as a \"virus\" or a \"cancer\" that spreads throughout the workplace via gossip, rumour and unfounded accusations.\n\nThe case has been made that diagnoses of Münchausen syndrome by proxy, that is harming someone else in order to gain attention for oneself, are often false or highly questionable.\n\nIn 1999, Pathe, Mullen and Purcell wrote that popular interest in stalking was promoting false claims. In 2004, Sheridan and Blaauw said that they estimated that 11.5% of claims in a sample of 357 reported claims of stalking were false.\n\nRage by a narcissist is directed towards the person that they feel has slighted them. This rage impairs their cognition, therefore impairing their judgment. During the rage, they are prone to shouting, fact distortion and making groundless accusations.\n\nPsychological projection can be established as a means of obtaining or justifying certain actions that would normally be found atrocious or heinous. This often means projecting false accusations, information, etc., onto an individual for the sole purpose of maintaining a self-created illusion.\n\n"}
{"id": "5245176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5245176", "title": "Feature group", "text": "Feature group\n\nA Feature Group, in North American telephone industry jargon, is most commonly used to designate various standard means of access by callers to competitive long distance services. \nThey defined switching arrangements from local exchange carriers central offices to interexchange carriers. These arrangements were described in an official tariff of the National Exchange Carrier Association, filed with the Federal Communications Commission (FCC).\n\nWhile there are other feature groups for local access, the four common feature groups exist for access from the local subscriber to competitive long-distance carriers:\n\nThese Feature Group alternatives allowed the LEC's end users to make long distance calls using the interexchange carrier's network, when non-stored program-controlled exchanges could not be modified to provide equal access. By the mid 1990s, Equal Access features in exchange software had rendered Feature Group D universally available in modern landline exchanges; the others are either used for calling card applications or are obsolete.\n"}
{"id": "3283572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3283572", "title": "Finnegan, Henderson, Farabow, Garrett &amp; Dunner", "text": "Finnegan, Henderson, Farabow, Garrett &amp; Dunner\n\nFinnegan, Henderson, Farabow, Garrett & Dunner LLP, commonly known as Finnegan, is an international intellectual property law firm based in Washington, DC, United States. Finnegan was founded on March 1, 1965 by Marc Finnegan and Douglas Henderson in Washington, DC. It is one of the largest law firms focusing exclusively on the practice of intellectual property (IP) law, practicing all aspects of patent, trademark, copyright, and trade secret law, including counseling, prosecution, licensing, and litigation. Finnegan (known as Finnegan Europe LLP in the United Kingdom and the Fei Han Foreign Affairs Law Firm in Taiwan ), also represents clients on IP issues related to European patents and trade marks, international trade, portfolio management, the Internet, e-commerce, government contracts, antitrust, and unfair competition.\n\nAs a place to work, Finnegan has been identified by \"Working Mother\" magazine as a top 100 company for working mothers since 2011 and ranked in the top 10 in the \"2016 Vault Guide to the Top 100 Law Firms\" in the categories Best Law Firms to Work For, Diversity, Formal Training, and Substantive Work, and ranked #2 for the firm’s Intellectual Property Practice.\n\n\nFinnegan has been consistently ranked one of the most prestigious law firms for intellectual property in the world. As such, Finnegan is among the most competitive firms for incoming associates, who usually possess advanced degrees in engineering and science in addition to a law degree. In 2018, the firm employed more than 40 former U.S. Federal Circuit clerks, and offered bonuses to incoming associates upon completing district and appellate court clerkships.\n\n"}
{"id": "6478401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6478401", "title": "German declaration of war against the Netherlands", "text": "German declaration of war against the Netherlands\n\nAt 6:00 am (Amsterdam Time) on 10 May 1940, during the Battle of the Netherlands, the German envoy Count von Zech-Burkersroda gave the Dutch Minister of Foreign Affairs Van Kleffens a message. It was not an actual declaration of war. The message was later interpreted by the Dutch as a declaration of war; however from the German side it was at the time seen as a mere warning, hopefully intimidating the Dutch enough to accept German military protection. At this moment the German troops had already transgressed the Dutch border.\n\nIn the early hours of 10 May the German minister of foreign affairs Joachim von Ribbentrop ordered the German envoy in the Netherlands, Count Julius von Zech-Burkersroda, who had been living in the Netherlands for many years representing the German government, to deliver a message to the Dutch government. Around 04:00 local time the Dutch minister of foreign affairs Eelco van Kleffens was recalled from the Dutch war council to his department in order to receive the message. It was not easy for Van Kleffens to reach the building as The Hague was already under attack by German paratroopers and nervous Dutch soldiers manning checkpoints suspected anyone to be a fifth columnist. He was even arrested and released only on orders of the General Headquarters.\n\nOn arrival Van Kleffens received the envoy around 6:00 in his office, who entered, guarded by two Dutch officers, in tears. He had with him a transcription in German of the telegram. He should have reformulated it, but had been unable to, apparently having been overcome by his emotions, feeling deeply ashamed of the actions by his fellow countrymen. When facing Van Kleffens he was unable to speak but merely cried; after a while Van Kleffens asked him to hand over the paper so that he could read it himself.\n\nIt was directly apparent to Van Kleffens that the message entailed an offer to become a German protectorate (like Denmark had done a month earlier) under threat of complete annihilation of the Dutch state if the Dutch would refuse to comply. It would have to be made clear immediately that the Netherlands intended to continue the fight together with their allies; however, by the Dutch Constitution for a Dutch declaration of war, consent was needed of the States-General of the Netherlands. Therefore, he chose to answer that the Dutch government considered the Kingdom of the Netherlands to be already in a state of war with Germany as a result of the German military action. He answered by writing a reply with a blue aniline pencil on a small paper.\n\nMany Dutch sources treat the telegram text as if it were a German declaration of war and change the typical style into standard sentences.\n\n"}
{"id": "49171934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49171934", "title": "Guarantee (international law)", "text": "Guarantee (international law)\n\nGuarantee – a method to ensure the fulfilment of international obligations, when a state promises to help the other state to fulfil its obligations, when some third party hinders that.\n\nPreviously other methods to ensure fulfilment of international obligations, like oaths or receiving hostages, were also called guarantees.\n\nOne example of such an obligation can be neutrality. For example, before World War I neutrality of Switzerland, Belgium and Luxembourg had been guaranteed.\n\n"}
{"id": "15627169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15627169", "title": "Gutierre de Hevia", "text": "Gutierre de Hevia\n\nDon Gutierre de Hevia y Valdés (died December 2, 1772) was a Spanish military man, who was head of the Spanish Marine Corps and present when Spain lost Havana during the British expedition against Cuba.\n\nBorn at Tortona, Italy, he joined the Spanish Navy in 1720. In Cadiz, he was involved in a duel and killed his opponent. He was trialed but acquitted, and left for the Americas. He made career in the Spanish Marine Corps and was the third man to set foot on enemy territory during the expedition to Oran in 1732.\n\nIn 1740, he served in the successful defense of Cartagena under general Blas de Lezo against a British invasion force under Admiral Edward Vernon, and was wounded.\n\nIn 1747 he received his first command of the warship \"Nueva España\". In 1759 he commanded the \"Fenix\" that was part of the convoy that brought Charles III, the new King of Spain, from Naples to Spain. For this, he received the titles of \"Marqués del Real Transporte and Vizconde del Buen Viaje\", and became Squadron leader.\n\nIn 1761, he was sent to Havana with a fleet of 12 ships to defend the city against an expected attack by the British, as Spain had entered the Seven Years' War that year, on the side of France.\n\nOn June 6, 1762, a powerful English invasion force under George Keppel, 3rd Earl of Albemarle began the siege of Havana. The fleet of Hevia played no part in the battle, all the guns and men were disembarked and used to defend the forts. The city was finally taken on 13 August. Hevia neglected to burn his fleet, which fell intact in the hands of the British.\n\nHevia and the surviving Spanish troops were transported to Spain. On his arrival, the Madrid government caused him to be tried by a court-martial. He was stripped of his titles and condemned to house arrest for 10 years. Thanks to the influence of his father-in-law don Juan José Navarro, Marqués de la Victoria, he was pardoned on September 17, 1765 on the occasion of the wedding of Charles, the Prince of Asturia.\n\nHe was reinstated as head of the Marine Corps and was based in Cadiz. He died in 1772 at Isla de León.\n\n"}
{"id": "4015722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4015722", "title": "High Bailiff", "text": "High Bailiff\n\nThe High Bailiff () is a legal position held within the Isle of Man. The High Bailiff is the head stipendiary magistrate.\n\nThe current High Bailiff is His Worship John Needham, who took office on 30 January 2010 on the retirement of Mr Michael Moyle. Mr Needham was previously Clerk to the Justices. The current Deputy High Bailiff is Her Worship Jayne Hughes.\n\nThe High Bailiff and his deputy are appointed by the Lieutenant Governor. The High Bailiff and Deputy High Bailiff are ex officio Judicial Officers of the High Court of Justice of the Isle of Man and Coroners of Inquests.\n\nOriginally there was a High Bailiff of each of the four towns of the Island, Castletown, Ramsey, Peel and Douglas. In 1911 the offices of High Bailiff of Castletown and Douglas, and the offices of High Bailiff of Peel and Ramsey, were merged. Those offices were merged in turn in 1933 to form a single office of High Bailiff of the Isle of Man.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26355234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26355234", "title": "Howard W. Hunter Law Library", "text": "Howard W. Hunter Law Library\n\nThe Howard W. Hunter Law Library is the library of the J. Reuben Clark Law School at Brigham Young University (BYU), Provo, Utah. It was named for Howard W. Hunter, the 14th President of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints who had been a lawyer in the Los Angeles area before he was called as a member of the Quorum of the Twelve.\n\nThe Hunter Law Library has only had its current name since 1995. However the library dates back 1975. It was renamed at the time of its expansion in 1995, which was also only a short time after Hunter's death. Hunter had been an early advocate of the founding of the BYU law school as a member of the BYU Board of Trustees and had also been closely connected with recruiting Rex E. Lee to be the first dean.\n\nThe library was expanded largely through a donation from Jon M. Huntsman, Sr. who had been Hunter's stake president and a good friend and wanted to honor him by having the library named for him.\n\nThe Hunter Law Library has over 450,000 volume and volume equivalents and over 4,000 active serial subscriptions. The current director is Kory D. Staheli, who has held this position since 2005 when he replaced Constance Lundburg.\n\nThe library is located in the same building as the Clark Law School, but it has clear internal entrances which are the security points beyond which books that have not been checked out may not go. Although geared towards the needs of law school students any BYU student may check out materials from the law library or access LexisNexis through the libraries system.\n\n"}
{"id": "16746969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16746969", "title": "Index of children's rights articles", "text": "Index of children's rights articles\n\nArticles related to children's rights include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1702294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1702294", "title": "Interconnection", "text": "Interconnection\n\nIn telecommunications, interconnection is the physical linking of a carrier's network with equipment or facilities not belonging to that network. The term may refer to a connection between a carrier's facilities and the equipment belonging to its customer, or to a connection between two (or more) carriers.\n\nIn United States regulatory law, interconnection is specifically defined (47 C.F.R. 51.5) as \"the linking of two or more networks for the mutual exchange of traffic.\"\n\nOne of the primary tools used by regulators to introduce competition in telecommunications markets has been to impose interconnection requirements on dominant carriers.\n\nUnder the Bell System monopoly (post Communications Act of 1934), the Bell System owned the phones and did not allow interconnection, either of separate phones (or other terminal equipment) or of other networks; a popular saying was \"Ma Bell has you by the calls\".\n\nThis began to change in the landmark case Hush-A-Phone v. United States [1956], which allowed some non-Bell owned equipment to be connected to the network, and was followed by a number of other cases, regulatory decisions, and legislation that led to the transformation of the American long distance telephone industry from a monopoly to a competitive business.\n\nThis further changed in FCC's \"Carterfone\" decision in 1968, which required the Bell System companies to permit interconnection by radio-telephone operators.\n\nToday the standard electrical connector for interconnection in the US, and much of the world, is the registered jack family of standards, especially RJ11. This was introduced by the Bell System in the 1970s, following a 1976 FCC order. Since then, it has gained popularity worldwide, and is a de facto international standard.\n\nOutside of the U.S., Interconnection or \"Interconnect regimes\" also take into account the associated commercial arrangements. As an example of the use of commercial arrangements, the focus by the EU has been on \"encouraging\" incumbents to offer bundles of network features that will enable competitors to provide services that compete directly with the incumbent. Further the interconnect regime decided upon by the regulator has a major impact on the development/rate of growth of market segments. According to Source8 (an EU based consultancy) two examples from the UK of this are: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "12547405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12547405", "title": "Jena Six", "text": "Jena Six\n\nThe Jena Six were six black teenagers in Jena, Louisiana, convicted in the 2006 beating of Justin Barker, a white student at the local Jena High School, which they also attended. Barker was injured on December 4, 2006, by the members of the Jena Six, and received treatment at an emergency room. While the case was pending, it was often cited by some media commentators as an example of racial injustice in the United States. Some commentators believed that the defendants had been charged initially with too-serious offenses and had been treated unfairly.\n\nA number of events had taken place in and around Jena in the months before the Barker assault, which the media have associated with an alleged escalation of local racial tensions. These events included the hanging of rope nooses from a tree in the high school courtyard, two violent confrontations between white and black youths, and the destruction by fire of the main building of Jena High School. Extensive news coverage related to the Jena Six often reported these events as linked. Federal and parish attorneys concluded from their investigations that assessment was inaccurate for some of the events; for instance, the burning of the high school was an attempt to destroy grade records.\n\nSix students (Robert Bailey, then aged 17; Mychal Bell, then 16; Carwin Jones, then 18; Bryant Purvis, then 17; Jesse Ray Beard, then 14; and Theo Shaw, then 17) were arrested in the assault of Barker. Mychal Bell was initially convicted as an adult of aggravated battery and conspiracy to commit aggravated battery. His convictions were overturned on the grounds that he should have been tried as a juvenile. Before a retrial in juvenile court, Bell pleaded guilty to a reduced charge of simple battery. The other five defendants later pleaded \"no contest\" to the same offense, and were convicted.\n\nThe Jena Six case sparked protests by people who considered the arrests and subsequent charges, initially attempted second-degree murder, as excessive and racially discriminatory. The protesters asserted that white Jena youths involved in similar incidents were treated more leniently. On September 20, 2007, between 15,000 and 20,000 protesters marched on Jena in what was described as the \"largest civil rights demonstration in years\". Related protests were held in other US cities on the same day. Subsequent reactions included songs alluding to the Jena Six, numerous editorials and opinion columns, and congressional hearings.\n\nAt Jena High School, about 10% of students are black and roughly 90% are white, reflecting the population of the town of Jena, which has about 3,000 people. Some early reporting indicated that students of different races seldom sat together, for instance in the cafeteria, although this has been disputed. According to early reports of the school environment, black students when outside typically sat on bleachers near the auditorium, while white students sat under a large tree in the center of the school courtyard, referred to as the \"white tree\" or \"prep tree\". According to some of the school's teachers and administrators, the tree in question was not a \"white tree,\" and students of all races had sat under it at one time or another.\n\nAt a school assembly held on August 31, 2006, a black male freshman asked the principal whether he could sit under the tree. According to Donald Washington, United States Attorney for the Western District of Louisiana, the principal said the question was posed in a \"jocular fashion\". The principal told the students they could \"sit wherever they wanted\". CNN reported that the freshman and his friends sat under the tree.\n\nThe following morning, students and staff discovered rope nooses hanging from the tree; reports differ as to whether there were two or three nooses. A black teacher described seeing both white and black students \"playing with [the nooses], pulling on them, jump-swinging from them, and putting their heads through them\" that same day. Craig Franklin, assistant editor of \"The Jena Times\", said the nooses were hung as a prank by three students directed at white members of the school rodeo team. The school's investigating committee had concluded that \"the three young teens had no knowledge that nooses symbolize the terrible legacy of the lynchings of countless blacks in American history.\" The names of those who hung the nooses were not publicly disclosed.\n\nThe school disciplinary process that followed is unclear. It was reported that the principal learned that three white students were responsible and recommended expulsion, that the board of education overruled his recommendation, and that school superintendent Roy Breithaupt agreed with the overruling. It was initially reported that the punishment was reduced to three days of in-school suspension. Under the district's Crisis Management Policy Procedures, the three students were isolated at an alternative school \"for about a month\", spent two weeks on in-school suspension, served Saturday detentions, had to attend Discipline Court, were referred to Families in Need of Services, and had to have an evaluation before they were able to return to school.\n\nThe school superintendent was quoted as saying, \"Adolescents play pranks. I don't think it was a threat against anybody.\" Black residents of Jena have said that this comment stoked racial tensions leading to subsequent events.\n\nAccording to US Attorney Donald Washington, the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) investigators found that the hanging of the nooses \"had all the markings of a hate crime\". But, it could not be prosecuted as such since juveniles are rarely prosecuted in the federal system, and this offense did not meet departmental standards for charges to be brought. La Salle Parish District Attorney J. Reed Walters stated that Washington had found no federal statute under which the teens could be prosecuted, just as he had found no applicable state statute. Walters opined: \"The people that [hung the nooses] should be ashamed of what they unleashed on this town.\"\n\nThe school treated the incident seriously and called police to the school in the days after the noose incident. The principal called an assembly on September 6, 2006. The Jena Police Department asked Parish Attorney Walters to attend and speak at the assembly. Already pressed for time due to a case under preparation, Walters felt that the students were not paying proper attention to him. He warned them, \"I can be your best friend or your worst enemy. With the stroke of a pen I can make life miserable for you or ruin your life. So I want you to call me before you do something stupid.\" Though black students say Walters was looking at them when he made the comments, Walters and school board member Billy Fowler, also present, deny it. Walters said that he was irritated at \"two or three girls, white girls, [who] were chit-chatting on their cellphones or playing with their cellphones\".\n\nOn November 30, 2006, the main building of the high school was destroyed by arson. Although it would be many months before the perpetrators were known, the news media later widely cited the fire as a racially charged event leading up to the assault on Barker. On December 28, 2007, LaSalle Parish Sheriff- elect Scott Franklin announced that an investigation had shown that the fire was set in an effort to destroy grade records in the building and to close the school for a time. Six male suspects (three juveniles and three adults) had been arrested, and two more adult males were being sought. They were racially diverse. Franklin indicated that the fire was not racially motivated, and had no connection to the Jena Six. Two of the arson defendants pleaded guilty, and were sentenced to ten years in prison, with restitution ordered in the amount of $10 million.\n\nOn December 1, 2006, a private party was held at the Jena Fair Barn. Bailey and four other black youths tried to enter the party at about 11:00 p.m. According to U.S. Attorney Washington, they were told by a woman that no one was allowed inside without an invitation. The youths persisted, stating that some friends were already at the party. A white male, who was not a student, moved in front of the woman and a fight ensued. After the fight broke up, the woman told both the white male and the black students to leave the party. Once outside, the black students were involved in another fight with a group of white males who were not students. Justin Sloan, a white male, was charged with battery for his role in the fight and was put on probation. Bailey later said that one of the white males broke a beer bottle over his head, but there are no records of Bailey receiving medical treatment.\n\nThe following day, an incident occurred at the \"Gotta Go\" convenience store, outside Jena in unincorporated LaSalle Parish, between Matt Windham and three black youths, including Bailey. Law enforcement reported that their accounts contradicted each other. Windham alleged that Bailey and his friends chased him, that he ran to get his gun, and that the students wrestled it away from him. According to the black students, as they left the convenience store, they were confronted by Windham with a shotgun. They said they wrestled the gun away from him and fled the scene. Bailey was charged with disturbing the peace, second-degree robbery, and theft of a firearm.\n\nOn December 4, 2006, 17-year-old Justin Barker, a white Jena High School student, was punched, kicked, and stomped on while at school by a group of black students. They first said that he had made a racist joke; some changed their account and said their actions were in response to the three nooses. Superintendent Breithaupt described the battery as a \"premeditated ambush and attack by six students against one. The victim attacked was beaten and kicked into a state of bloody unconsciousness.\"\nBarker was released from a local emergency room after three hours of treatment and observation for a concussion and an eye that had swollen shut. The emergency physician's record shows that he also had injuries to his face, ears, and hand. He attended his school's class ring ceremony and dance that evening. He later testified, \"I waited 11 years to go to it. I wasn't going to let that get in my way.\" He left the dance early due to pain. During the trial, Barker testified that his face was badly swollen after the attack and that he suffered a loss of vision in one eye for three weeks. He said that he had suffered recurring headaches and forgetfulness since the attack.\n\nUS Attorney Washington states he does not believe the noose incident and the beatings were related. Walters likewise said that he believes there is no linkage between the noose incident and the beating. \"When this case was brought to me and during our investigation and during the trial, there was no such linkage ever suggested. This compact story line has only been suggested after the fact.\" Although Washington believes that both the noose hangings and the Barker battery were symptoms of racial tension, he has also said that there was no apparent lingering anger among students at the school after the nooses were found.\n\nLaw enforcement arrested six students, eventually dubbed the \"Jena Six\", who were accused in the attack on Barker. Five of them (Robert Bailey, Jr., then 17; Mychal Bell, then 16; Carwin Jones, then 18; Bryant Purvis, then 17; and Theo Shaw, then 17) were charged with attempted murder. The sixth student, Jesse Ray Beard (also known as Jesse Rae Beard), was charged as a juvenile. Walters charged Mychal Bell as an adult, although he was only 16, because of his previous criminal record and because Walters believed Bell initiated the attack.\n\nDistrict Judge J. P. Mauffray, Jr. presided over Bell's trial. On the first day of trial, June 26, 2007, Walters reduced the charges to aggravated second-degree battery and conspiracy to commit aggravated second-degree battery. The charge of aggravated battery requires the use of a \"dangerous weapon\", and Walters argued that the tennis shoes worn by Bell while allegedly kicking Barker were dangerous weapons. A number of witnesses testified that they saw Bell strike Barker, while other witnesses were unsure Bell was involved at all.\n\nBefore the trial began, public defender Blane Williams had urged Bell to accept a plea bargain. At trial he rested the defense case without calling any witnesses or offering any evidence. The six members of Bell's jury were all white. The 150-person jury pool included black citizens, who make up 10 percent of the parish's population, but none of the 50 potential jurors who showed up was black. Williams did not challenge the composition of the jury pool.\n\nThe jury found Bell guilty, and he faced the possibility of up to 22 years in prison. The judge scheduled sentencing for September 20, 2007. Bell's new defense attorneys, Bob Noel, Walter Lee Perkins Jr., Peggy Sullivan, Louis Scott and Carol Powell-Lexing, requested a new trial on the grounds that Bell should not have been tried as an adult. A request to lower Bell's $90,000 bond was denied on August 24, 2007, due to his juvenile record. Bell had been put on probation for a battery that occurred December 25, 2005. While on probation, he was convicted of another battery charge and two charges of criminal damage to property. One of the battery charges was reportedly for punching a 17-year-old girl in the face. The media had initially reported that Bell had no prior criminal record. On September 4, 2007, Judge Mauffray vacated the conspiracy conviction on the grounds that Bell should have been tried as a juvenile, but he let the battery conviction stand. Bell appealed his conviction, principally on the ground that he had been improperly tried as an adult. On September 14, 2007, Louisiana's Third Circuit Court of Appeals overturned Bell's battery conviction, agreeing that this remaining charge was not among those for which a juvenile may be tried as an adult.\n\nFollowing the appellate ruling, on September 21, 2007, Judge Mauffray denied the request for Bell to be eligible for bail pending possible further appeal. On September 26, Parish Attorney Walters announced that the prosecution would not appeal the appellate ruling, but would try Bell as a juvenile. Bell was released on $45,000 bond, subject to electronic monitoring and under the supervision of a probation officer.\n\nOn October 11, 2007, Mauffray found that Bell had violated the terms of his probation for previous convictions. The judge sentenced Bell to 18 months in a juvenile facility on two counts of simple battery and two counts of criminal destruction of property, and Bell was taken into custody. According to Walters, the matter was unrelated to the assault on Barker, and it had not been referred to during the Barker proceedings. The defense filed a motion to dismiss the Barker charges on the ground that retrying Bell would amount to double jeopardy. On November 8, 2007, Mauffray denied the motion.\n\nBell's retrial in the Barker assault was scheduled for December 6. Three days before the trial began, he pleaded guilty to a reduced charge of battery, and was sentenced to 18 months in a juvenile facility, with credit for time served. He agreed to testify against any of the other assault defendants at trial. All appeals were dropped as part of the plea agreement.\n\nOn September 4, 2007, charges against Carwin Jones and Theo Shaw were reduced to aggravated second-degree battery and conspiracy, as were those of Robert Bailey, Jr. on September 10. Bryant Purvis was arraigned on reduced charges of aggravated battery and conspiracy to commit aggravated battery on November 7, 2007, and pleaded not guilty. Because Louisiana law considers seventeen-year-olds to be adults for purposes of criminal culpability, the charges for these four were unaffected by the appellate ruling overturning Bell's conviction.\n\nProceedings were on hold for some time pending resolution of various motions to require Mauffray to recuse himself. On July 31, 2008, Mauffray was removed from the cases by Judge Thomas Yeager for making questionable comments about the defendants. The Louisiana Supreme Court assigned Judge Yeager to hear the five remaining cases by order signed August 4, 2008. Walters appealed the recusal order, but his appeal was dismissed on March 4, 2009, as moot, or no longer relevant, as Mauffray had left the bench at the end of 2008.\n\nOn June 26, 2009, the remaining five defendants entered pleas of \"no contest\" to a charge of simple battery. The court found them guilty as charged, and sentenced each to a fine of $500 (waived in regards to Shaw due to the time he spent in jail), $500 to be paid as court costs, restitution to be paid to the Barker family (with whom the defendants were ordered to have no contact), and seven days of unsupervised probation. The defendants' lawyers read a statement apologizing to the Barker family and to the town. Addressing the rumors that the attack had been provoked by Barker using a racial epithet, they said on behalf of the defendants:\n\nTo be clear, not one of us heard Justin use any slur or say anything that justified Mychal Bell attacking Justin nor did any of us see Justin do anything that would cause Mychal to react.\nYeager, who presided over the plea and sentencing, also ordered the youths to avoid criminal activity, and not to disavow the statement made on their behalf in court. On June 26, it was announced that the civil case by Barker against the Jena Six members had been settled on undisclosed terms. His civil case against the school board was pending.\n\nInitially, the Jena Six were largely ignored by the United States national media, though covered locally and within Louisiana. Both \"The Jena Times\" and \"The Town Talk\" (a regional newspaper published in Alexandria, Louisiana) covered the story from its inception. A number of African-American bloggers also covered the story before there was mainstream national press coverage. The first piece on the case to be published by an outside source ran on May 9, 2007, in \"Left Turn\", a small alternative news magazine.\n\nThe first mainstream US print media outlet to cover the matter was the \"Chicago Tribune\", whose Southwest Bureau Chief, Howard Witt, wrote a piece covering the story on May 20. Witt had received a summary of the situation from Alan Bean, a Texas minister who had founded the advocacy group Friends of Justice. The group sent its document to other reporters and bloggers. In it Bean demanded that outside authorities, not those in LaSalle Parish, deal with the case, and that no incarceration of the defendants occur. Britain's \"The Observer\" also featured an article on the case on May 20.\n\nA segment on a BBC program \"This World\" followed on May 24. The case began to receive more extensive national media coverage in July 2007, with CNN interviewing Jena residents and parents of those involved. Given the racial history of the Deep South, many news reports from Jena evoked the Civil Rights Movement, referred to historic lynching, or Jim Crow.\n\nSome sources pointed to inaccurate reporting by the media. The Associated Press published an article noting the various reporting errors that have been made, including whether the tree was a \"white tree\", the number of nooses, and the discipline given to the noose-hanging students. Based on this, MTV posted a retraction for incorrect information that it had reported on the case from other news sources.\n\nMany major editorial pages and columnists have been sympathetic to the supporters of the Jena Six. They have used the case to discuss broader trends of racism in the US criminal justice system and to call for a renewed civil rights movement. Most editorials were published around the time of the Jena rally. \"The New York Post\", in a September 23, 2007, editorial, stated \"it's impossible to examine the case of the so-called Jena Six without concluding that these black teens have been the victims of a miscarriage of justice, with a clearly racial double standard at work.\" Byron Williams, writing on the \"Huffington Post\", was one of several to cite the Urban League's 2005 finding that the average black male convicted of aggravated assault serves 48 months in prison, one-third longer than a comparable white man. The 2005 report also found that a black male who is arrested is three times more likely to go to jail than a white male arrested for the same crime. Citing the same statistics, syndicated columnist Clarence Page wrote that \"The best legacy for the Jena March 6 would be a new movement, dedicated this time to the reduction and elimination of unequal justice wherever it appears. I don't care who leads it, but it shouldn't be for blacks only.\" Writing in the \"New York Times\", Professor Orlando Patterson of Harvard University used the case to highlight the use of the prison system as a means of \"controlling young black men\", which is one factor in a broader \"crisis in relations between men and women of all classes and, as a result, the catastrophic state of black family life\".\n\nOther columnists have argued that inaccuracies in the media coverage unfairly tarnish the town and have led to a national overreaction, part of the tendency in the 24-hour news cycle. \"Dallas Morning News\" columnist Heather MacDonald, while condemning the noose hangings as a \"despicable provocation\", said that \"the media, the (race) advocates and pandering politicians have erupted in an outpouring of seeming joy at the alleged proof that America remains a racist country.\" In a column in the \"Kansas City Star\", Jason Whitlock drew attention to what he called factual inaccuracies in reporting of the story. He focused on the piece circulated by Bean to news outlets, \"Bean's story is framed—by his own admission—as an indictment of the criminal justice system and the people in power in Jena and, therefore, the story is unfairly biased.\" Craig Franklin, assistant editor of \"The Jena Times\", who says that he is the only writer to have covered this story from its inception, wrote in \"The Christian Science Monitor,\" \"I have never before witnessed such a disgrace in professional journalism. Myths replaced facts ... the truth about Jena will eventually be known.\"\n\nThe case provoked reactions that the charges against the Jena Six were disproportionate and racially motivated. Supporters of the Jena Six circulated online petitions, raised money for legal defense, and held a demonstration in Jena on September 20, 2007. This event attracted thousands marching in protest.\n\nRallies in support of the Jena Six were held in Jena on September 20, 2007, the date upon which Bell was scheduled for sentencing. An estimated 15,000 to 20,000 demonstrators attended the rally that day, severely overtaxing the facilities of the small town. Protesters took buses from such distant cities as Los Angeles and Washington, DC. Because of the congestion on the roads leading to Jena, many protesters left their vehicles and continued into town on foot. Attendees included civil rights activists Jesse Jackson, Al Sharpton, and Martin Luther King III, and rappers Mos Def and Salt-n-Pepa. Rapper-actor Ice Cube attended and financially supported the rally. Darryl Hunt, an African American who was wrongfully convicted of the rape and murder of a young white newspaper reporter in 1984, was scheduled as a keynote speaker. The demonstrators were addressed by Darryl Matthews, General President of Alpha Phi Alpha fraternity, who said, \"It is sobering to know that in 2007 Martin Luther King's dream of equal treatment, respect, fairness and opportunity is still not realized.\"\n\nSeveral songs have been produced in response to the Jena Six case. John Mellencamp released a song and video called \"Jena\", with lyrics such as \"Jena, take your nooses down\" which gained considerable media attention, and which Mellencamp described as a \"condemnation of racism.\" The video juxtaposes images of Jena, the high school, and the tree with video from the 1960s, including civil rights marchers and police beatings. Video of John F. Kennedy and Martin Luther King speaking and an image of a black man in shackles are also included in the video. The song and video led to Jena's mayor, Murphy R. McMillan, issuing a statement rebutting the accusations he believed were expressed and implied in the video. An episode of the \"Salt-N-Pepa Show\" on VH1 was filmed at the Jena rally. Bomani Armah released a song called \"Jena 6\".\n\n\"Blood at the Root\" is a play written by Dominique Morisseau about the Jena 6. Blood at the Root premiered on March 28, 2014 at Penn State Center Stage. The story is told through the lens of one of the Jena 6's sister, who also attended the high school. The audience is able to experience the series of events that led up to the convictions from multiple students' unique perspective. It has toured internationally and has been described as \"catalyzing conversations on difficult and essential questions of race and justice.\"\n\nMany online petitions have circulated calling for various actions in response to the Jena Six case. Online advocacy group Color of Change, which had previously advocated for victims of Hurricane Katrina, called for District Attorney Walters to drop all charges and for Governor Kathleen Blanco to investigate his conduct. Color of Change raised more than $212,000 for the Jena Six legal defense, largely through online donations. While the NAACP provided a link to the fund through its website, initially, the donation link on the NAACP Jena Six support page steered potential donors to the generic NAACP donation page, with no way to designate funds for the Jena Six. Black bloggers objected, and several days later, the link was altered to reach the defense fund.\n\nThe Southern Poverty Law Center represented Beard, hired local defense counsel to represent Bailey, and helped coordinate the overall defense strategy.\n\nIn the months following the Jena Six rally, controversy arose about accounting and dispersal of the legal defense funds. Questions about the money were first sparked by photos posted on Robert Bailey's former MySpace account, which show him with quantities of hundred dollar bills stuffed in his mouth. The controversy expanded when radio host Michael Baisden accused Color of Change of being \"shady\" with their use of the funds. Color of Change responded to the accusations by posting links to canceled checks on their web site. In his November 10 report, \"Chicago Tribune\" correspondent Howard Witt noted that Color of Change was the only national civil rights group to be fully transparent with their use of the funds. But Witt raised broader questions about the funds, which totaled more than half a million dollars. He reported that attorneys for Bell claimed that they have yet to receive any money from him, and that the six families had refused to publicly account for the donations.\n\nOn September 22, 2007, the FBI opened an investigation of a white supremacist website that listed the addresses of five of the Jena Six and the telephone numbers of some of their families \"in case anyone wants to deliver justice\". An FBI spokeswoman said the agency believed that the website \"essentially called for their lynching\". Civil rights advocate Al Sharpton has said that some of the families have continuously received threatening and harassing phone calls.\n\nOn September 25, 2007, Representative John Conyers (D), Chairman of the House Judiciary Committee, announced that he would hold congressional hearings on what he described as \"the miscarriages of justice that have occurred in Jena, Louisiana,\" with the goal of pressuring the United States Department of Justice into taking action. The hearing took place on October 16, 2007; Washington and Sharpton, among others, testified. Walters was invited to testify but declined. Most Republican members of the committee declined to attend. Representative Sheila Jackson Lee (D-Texas) said to Washington and other Justice Department officials, \"Shame on you. ... As a parent, I'm on the verge of tears,\" and said, \"I want to know what you're going to do to get Mychal Bell out of jail!\" US Attorney Washington responded that the federal government had a limited role to play in the matter.\n\nRepresentative Lee and other members of the Congressional Black Caucus called upon outgoing Louisiana Governor Blanco to pardon the Jena Six on December 19, 2007, stating that \"we believe Mychal Bell and the Jena 6 have paid a sufficient debt to society for any transgressions they may have committed.\" Blanco's office responded that she cannot grant pardons without a recommendation from the state Pardon Board, and no meeting of that body was scheduled during her remaining term of office. Walters commented that Representative Lee's \"passion for racial equality is admirable, but her grasp of the facts is not.\" He indicated that the attack on Barker was not just a schoolyard fight \"but rather an unprovoked, unforeseen assault on a young man who had nothing to do with the hanging of the nooses.\" Governor Blanco's term of office ended without any pardons being granted.\n\nOn July 31, 2007, the school had the controversial tree cut down. School Board member Fowler said, \"There's nothing positive about that old tree. It's all negative. And I'm serving on the new School Board, and we're wanting to start fresh on some things.\" According to Fowler, the tree would have had to have been cut down to make way for the rebuilding of the school after the fire. Others thought that taking down the tree was not an effective way to address any problems of racism in Jena. \"Cutting down that beautiful tree won't solve the problem at hand,\" said Caseptla Bailey, Robert Bailey's mother. \"It still happened.\" The remains of the building have been cleared, and a bid accepted for the reconstruction.\n\nJones and Purvis attended the BET Hip Hop Awards in Atlanta on October 13, 2007, and were invited to present the award for Video of the Year. When the two defendants came out on stage, they were greeted by a standing ovation. Emcee Katt Williams joked, \"They don't look so tough, do they?\" The two members delivered speeches thanking family, friends, the \"Hip-Hop Nation\", and those who came to Jena.\n\nJustin Barker and his parents filed a civil suit on November 29, 2007, against the parents of those accused of beating him, the adult members of the Jena Six (as of the time of the attack), an additional student named Malcolm Shaw, and the LaSalle Parish School Board. Barker's medical bills from his emergency room visit totaled more than $5,000. The lawsuit alleges that the LaSalle Parish School Board inadequately supervised students and failed to maintain discipline. The Barkers also allege that the school board did not implement a plan to \"discourage the dangerous activity of threatening and attacking other students while in possession of actual knowledge of said threats and prior attacks while the students are on school grounds\".\n\nThe case was on hold pending resolution of the criminal cases. When the Barkers' attorney learned that Jesse Ray Beard was using defense funds (which might be garnished under a civil suit) to pay for private school, he decided to push ahead with the case. Following a motion by Bell's civil attorney to recuse Mauffray in the civil case, proceedings were put on hold again pending appointment of a judge to hear that recusal motion. Mauffray subsequently retired. On March 16, 2009, Judge Ronald Lewellyan was assigned to hear the civil case. On June 26, 2009, Judge Lewellyan approved a settlement of Barker's claims against the Jena Six, though the claim against the school board remained pending.\n\nIn February 2007, Jesse Ray Beard was charged with, and subsequently convicted of and sentenced for, simple battery, simple criminal damage to property less than $500, and simple assault. He received a suspended sentence of incarceration, and was placed on house arrest. On July 9, 2008, Beard, by then aged 17, was released from house arrest so that he could attend a summer program and football camp in New York. It was revealed at a hearing on that date that Beard had been recommended for expulsion for 13 disciplinary actions, but that the recommendation had been overturned. In New York, he stayed with Alan Howard, a local attorney who represented Beard in the civil suit, and worked as an intern in the attorney's office, while taking summer courses to prepare him for junior year. He was required to return to Jena by August 11.\n\nOn August 6, Judge Yeager terminated Beard's probation (he remained under the conditions of his bail release in the Barker incident) so he could attend the Canterbury School in Connecticut. Half of the $39,900 annual tuition was paid for with Jena Six defense fund money. At Canterbury, Beard played on the basketball, baseball, and football teams and graduated in 2010. Beard attended Hofstra University in New York, where he earned an academic scholarship and played on the lacrosse team.\n\nBryant Purvis, aged 19, was arrested on February 7, 2008, for an assault causing bodily injury on a fellow high school student in Texas, where he now resides. Purvis was placed on probation for a year and required to do community service. He enrolled at Ranger College, a junior college, attending on a basketball scholarship. In 2011, Purvis transferred to Grambling State University and played basketball there.\n\nCorwin Jones was arrested on May 10, 2008, at the age of 19 in LaSalle Parish on a charge of misdemeanor simple battery. The Sheriff's Department alleges that three days earlier, Jones had struck a man from behind as several people, including Jones, came toward the man and his friends, with Jones' companions carrying baseball bats. Jones denied fault, saying that the incident was caused by a fight the previous day in which Jones says he was not involved, that he had been harassed and intimidated, and \"that the incident that day 'struck a nerve and I reacted'.\" Jones had previously been arrested on January 24, 2008, on a trespass-related charge. According to his father, Jones received his diploma from Jena High School because he had completed his school work before his arrest. He moved out of Jena and was working in a hotel.\n\nOn May 10, Bell was stopped in Olla, Louisiana, for speeding and not having proper vehicle insurance while on a weekend pass from his sentence. Bell was not supposed to leave Monroe, Louisiana, during the pass. The vehicle was towed due to the lack of insurance. In an interview televised on CNN on August 24, 2008, Bell admitted to having struck Barker in 2006 and described Jena as \"a real racist town\". On August 27, 2008, the Louisiana High School Athletic Association turned down Bell's request for an extra year of athletic eligibility. Marcus Jones, Bell's father, blamed Bell's attorney at the time of the plea agreement for the denial. \"If it weren't for his attorney, Mychal would be able to play football\", Jones said. \"They coerced him into taking that plea agreement. If he wouldn't have taken that plea, he wouldn't be in the position he's in now.\" In 2014, Bell was attending Southern University in Baton Rouge.\n\nAfter the hearing, Jones allegedly spat in the face of his son's attorney, Carol Powell-Lexing, and supposedly pushed her to the floor. Jones denied assaulting Powell-Lexing, saying he would never get into a physical fight with a woman. Jones was charged with assault. Despite the alleged assault, Powell-Lexing continued as part of Bell's defense team.\n\nOn December 24, 2008, Bell was arrested and charged with shoplifting, resisting arrest, and simple assault. According to police, Bell was caught as he and another male attempted to steal $370 worth of clothing from Dillard's department store. While being arrested, he reportedly resisted a security guard and off-duty police officer. He was released on $1,300 bond. On December 29, 2008, Bell shot himself in the chest with a .22-caliber pistol in a failed attempt at suicide, telling police he was tired of all the media attention. As the hospital in Monroe was unable to stop his internal bleeding, Bell was transferred to a hospital in Shreveport for specialist care. Powell-Lexing denied that Bell had tried to kill himself, saying that the gun went off while Bell was attempting to clean it.\n\nOn January 15, 2009, CNN featured an interview with Bell; he said that he had obtained a gun out of despair following the shoplifting arrest, first tried to shoot himself in the head, but the gun misfired, and that he then shot himself in the chest. Bell said he had returned to school and still hopes to receive a college football scholarship. As the shoplifting and related charges were Bell's first as an adult, he was eligible for a diversion program; the charges were dismissed in early 2010. Bell enrolled at Southern University in 2009. In 2011, Bell played in two games with the Southern Jaguars football team.\n\nOn May 22, 2010, Bell was arrested and charged with simple battery after an incident at a Jena barber shop. According to the arresting officers, after being read his Miranda rights, Bell told them that he attacked the man for \"running his mouth\". Bell said he punched the victim in the face, put him in a headlock and rammed his head into a table. On December 13, 2014, according to a message on Twitter, Bell graduated from Southern University with a bachelor's degree in education interdisciplinary studies.\n\nRobert Bailey attended high school at Shaw High School in Columbus, Georgia, where he was granted an extra year's eligibility to play football.\n\nTheo Shaw was able to attend classes at another high school and have his credits transferred to Jena. He received a Jena High School diploma although he took part in the graduation ceremony at the other school. on June 3, 2018, he graduated from the University of Washington's School of Law, having received a full scholarship as a Gates Public Service Law Scholar.\n\n"}
{"id": "2514888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2514888", "title": "Jury selection", "text": "Jury selection\n\nJury selection is the selection of the people who will serve on a jury during a jury trial. The group of potential jurors (the \"jury pool\", also known as the \"venire\") is first selected from among the community using a reasonably random method. Jury lists are compiled from voter registrations and driver license or ID renewals. From those lists, summons are mailed. A panel of jurors is then assigned to a courtroom. The prospective jurors are randomly selected to sit in the jury box. At this stage they will be questioned in court by the judge and/or attorneys in the United States. Depending on the jurisdiction, attorneys may have an opportunity to mount a \"challenge for cause\" argument or use one of a limited number of peremptory challenges. In some jurisdictions that have capital punishment, the jury must be death-qualified to remove those who are opposed to the death penalty. Jury selection and techniques for \"voir dire\" are taught to law students in trial advocacy courses. However, attorneys sometimes use expert assistance in systematically choosing the jury, although other uses of jury research are becoming more common. The jury selected is said to have been \"empaneled\".\n\nSelected jurors are generally subjected to a system of examination whereby both the prosecution (or plaintiff, in a civil case) and defense can object to a juror. In common law countries, this is known as \"voir dire\". \"Voir dire\" can include both general questions asked of an entire pool of prospective jurors, answered by means such as a show of hands, and questions asked of individual prospective jurors and calling for a verbal answer. In some jurisdictions, the attorneys for the parties may question the potential jurors; in other jurisdictions, the trial judge conducts the \"voir dire\".\n\nThe method and scope of the possible rejections varies between countries:\n\nIn the United States the process of \"voir dire\" is often much more in depth than in other countries and its practical implementation is somewhat controversial because of this. The amount of privacy that the potential jurors are afforded when asked questions raises the issue of the definition of \"impartial jury\". Some people are skeptical as to whether the intensive questioning of potential jurors looks not just for inherent bias but for a potential to be emotionally swayed. On the other hand, proponents argue that this method gives both sides more confidence in the verdict.\n\nPart XX of the \"Criminal Code of Canada\" allows for a jury in a Canadian murder trial to consist of twelve jurors. However, a minimum of ten jurors and a maximum of 14 jurors may hear the evidence a trial. At the end of trial, a maximum of twelve jurors and minimum of ten jurors may deliberate. \n\nSection 631(2.2) as well as section 643 of the \"Criminal Code\" specify that a jury may consist of either 12, 13 or 14 members, however, 12 is most common. Section 631(2.2) allows a judge to order that 13 or 14 jurors be sworn in under certain circumstances. \n\nJurors may also be excused during trial. According to section 644(1) of the \"Criminal Code\", a judge may discharge any juror during the trial due to illness or “other reasonable cause” such as impartiality (see \"R v Tsouma\" (1973) and R v Holcomb (1973)). Section 644(2) further specifies that a jury is still properly constituted to complete its duties even if a juror is discharged during the trial as long as the number of jurors is not reduced below ten. \n\nAt the conclusion of trial and following the jury charge, a maximum of twelve jurors may deliberate. It requires the judge to pull numbers from a box in order to determine which jurors should be discharged in order to reduce the number of jurors down to twelve.\n\nJury Identification\nWhen empanelling the jury, section 631(3) of the Criminal Code states that the court clerk will draw out the appropriate number of juror cards and read out the name and number of each card in the courtroom. In this sense, the identity of the jurors will be revealed to all parties. However, s. 631(3.1) goes on to say that judge can order that the clerk of the court shall only call out the number on each card, thereby withholding the names of the jury members. This generally takes place upon application by the prosecutor or when the judge deems it necessary in order to protect the safety and privacy of the jury members. \n\nUnder s. 631(6) of the Code, the presiding judge may then make an order either directing that the identity of a jury member or any information that could reveal their identity not be published or broadcast in any way; or limiting access to or the use of that information. These amendments to s. 361 were introduced in 2001, with the purpose of “protecting jurors from intimidation, and enabling jurors to participate effectively by making them free to act without being subjected to threats, prejudice, intimidation or physical injury” (R v Jacobson, [2004] O.J. No. 1432 (OSCJ), at para 23).\n\nPeremptory Challenges \n\nIn Canada, the number of peremptory challenges (i.e., challenges for which no reason be given) for jury selection is governed by Section 634 of the Criminal Code of Canada. The number of peremptory challenges varies depending on the nature of the offence. The prosecutor and the accused are each allowed: twenty challenges for first-degree murder or high treason; twelve challenges for any offence, except first-degree murder or high treason, where a term of imprisonment exceeding five years is a possible sentence, and; four challenges where the accused is charged with a lesser offence (s. 634 (2), Criminal Code of Canada). \n\nWhere multiple offences are tried together, the greatest number applicable is used (i.e., in an offence involving first-degree murder and armed robbery, the accused and the prosecutor are each entitled to twenty peremptory challenges) [s. 634 (3), Criminal Code of Canada]. \n\nWhen multiple accused are tried together, each accused is entitled to the same number that they would receive if tried separately, while the prosecutor has as many challenges as the total number available to all of the accused (i.e., in a case wherein two co-accused are charged with first-degree murder, each receives twenty peremptory challenges, and the prosecutor receives forty) [s. 634 (4), Criminal Code of Canada].\n\nThe amount of peremptory challenges can also vary according to the circumstances of the jury. The prosecutor and the accused are each entitled to one additional peremptory challenge if there are 13 jurors, or two additional challenges each in the case of 14 jurors (s. 634 (2.01), Criminal Code of Canada). As well, the number of peremptory challenges increases accordingly if the judge makes an order for alternate jurors at a rate of one additional challenge for each party per alternate juror (s. 634 (2.1), Criminal Code of Canada). In the event that replacement jurors are required, each party is similarly entitled to one peremptory challenge per replacement (s. 634 (2.2) Criminal Code of Canada). \nChallenge for Cause\nSection 638 of the Criminal Code of Canada provides the basis upon which an individual juror may be challenged for cause. A party seeking to challenge a prospective juror’s partiality must first demonstrate to the court that there is an ‘air of reality’ to the application (see R v Sherratt, [1991] 1 SCR 509). A party may do this by establishing that there is a realistic potential for partiality (see R v Williams, [1998] 1 SCR 1128). \nSection 640 of the Criminal Code sets out the procedures for dealing with a challenge for cause. A challenge for cause based on the enumerated grounds under section 638, other than the juror’s name not appearing on the panel, will be tried by the last two jurors to be sworn. If no Jurors have been sworn the judge will appoint two persons to try the challenge for cause. Upon application by the accused, the court may exercise its discretion to exclude all sworn and unsworn jurors from the court room until the challenge for cause is decided. The two triers of the challenge for cause must decide the question on a balance of probabilities. \n\nPre-Hearing Conference \nPart XX of the \"Criminal Code of Canada\" provides for Procedure in Jury Trials. \nSection 625.1 of the \"Criminal Code of Canada\" is the authority for a pre-hearing conference. \n\nA pre-hearing conference is a conference held prior to the beginning of a trial. It is held between the prosecutor and the accused (or counsel for the accused) and is presided over by the court. The purpose of a pre-hearing conference is to promote a fair and expeditious trial. It considers matters that would be better decided before the start of the trial and makes arrangements for the decisions of those matters. \n\nEither the prosecutor, defence or the judge may initiate a motion for a pre-hearing conference. \n\nA pre-hearing conference is mandatory for any case to be tried by jury (per s. 625.1(2) of the Criminal Code of Canada). It must be presided over by a judge of the court that will try the accused, and must be held in accordance with the rules of court made under sections 482 and 482.1. \n\nCase Law: A pre-hearing conference judge does not have the jurisdiction to review the Crown disclosure decisions or to order disclosure .\n\nIn the United States, capital cases (cases where the prosecution pursues the death penalty), the jury must often be \"death-qualified\". A death-qualified jury is one in which all members of the venire that categorically object to capital punishment are removed. This has the effect of ensuring that the jury will be willing to hand down a sentence of death, if they feel the crime warrants it. The United States Supreme Court has ruled that the practice is constitutional. Critics object to death-qualification because empirical evidence has shown that death-qualified jurors are more likely to convict defendants of crimes than are jurors generally.\n\nIn the 1970s and 1980s in the United States, scientific jury selection—the use of expert assistance to more effectively use peremptory challenges — became more common. The practice has proven controversial because of fears that it gives lawyers the ability to \"fix\" the jury and enhances the distorting effect of money. However, research indicates that the effect of the practice is modest at best.\n\nCurrently, the more generic jury consulting or jury research is increasingly more common as attorneys trying high-stakes cases demand assistance through all parts of the trial process. The still more generic field of trial consulting also contains a myriad of other tools and techniques not directly related to juries.\n\n\"Jury packing\" is \"illegally or corruptly influencing a jury by making available for jury service persons known to be biased or partial in a particular case to be tried\". The term also is applied pejoratively to jury selection procedures which are legal but perceived as unfair. In the nineteenth century, the prosecution had unlimited peremptory challenges in England and Ireland, whereas the defence were limited to six in England or 20 in Ireland. Peter O'Brien as Crown Prosecutor during the Irish Land War was nicknamed \"Peter the Packer\" by supporters of the Irish Land League. The pool from which a jury panel is selected may not have the same demographics as the general population; until the nineteenth century or later in many jurisdictions, jury service, as with the electoral franchise, was restricted to male property owners. \n\nIn three studies of legal authoritarianism, attitudes toward psychiatrists, and attitude toward the insanity defense were examined as predictors of conviction-proneness in insanity defense cases. Some experts believe that 85% of cases litigated are won or lost in the jury selection phase.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49092737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49092737", "title": "K9 Killer", "text": "K9 Killer\n\nK9 Killer is a Belgian Malinois dog who works with the Kruger National Park's Special Operations Team to prevent rhinoceros poachers in South Africa. On 6 January 2016, the dog was awarded a PDSA Gold Medal for his anti-poaching work. Amos Mizmba is the owner of K9 Killer.\n\nThe Belgian Malinois, a working class dog, can be employed for personal protection and scent tracking. They must receive training so they can channel their high energy drive tasks that their owners have given them. When Belgian Malinois are young, they require a lot of stimuli from their surroundings so that they can get used to them as they grow older.\n\nThe Belgian Malinois is a Belgian herding breed that originated from a small town in Belgium called Malines. The other name for a Belgian Malinois is the Chien de Berger (bair-zhai) Belge (belzh). This lively and energetic breed can be family friendly with the proper training and care. It can suffer from health problems, like most other breeds. Retinal atrophy, hip/elbow dysplasia, etc. Because of its energy an intelligence, the breed was enlisted in World War I.\n\nK9 Killer's lineage can be followed to the Iraq war and the Belgian Police. His father had parents that served for the United States in the Iraq War. His mother was bred from two Belgian police dogs and was entered into an exchange program and sent to South Africa.\n\nIn Kruger National Park canines are being used in the tracking and apprehension of poachers. This work includes scent detection of firearms and illegal animal parts. Once suspects have been detected in the park, K9 Killer is loaded into a helicopter and flown to a drop off location. As of the last 4 years K9 Killer has led to the arrest of 115 poachers in Kruger National Park's. In order for K9 Killer to remain on the scent trails of humans he had to be introduced to the scents of animals in Kruger National Park at a young age. This 2-year training program desensitized K9 Killer to the smells of animals.\n\nKruger National Park, in South Africa, suffers from rhinoceros poaching every year. Rhinoceros poaching has “increased from 13 poached rhinos in 2007 to 1,215 in 2014” (BBC News). Kruger National Park, however, has enlisted the help of a special Belgian Malinois, Killer. Alongside Killer's handler, Amos Mzimba, Killer has aided in the arrests of more than 115 rhinoceros poachers illegally hunting within the park grounds. \n\nThe PDSA Gold Medal was awarded to K9 Killer in January 2016 for his fight against anti-poaching in South Africa. Through the protection of human and non-human life, pets must show dedication to their duties in order to receive this honor.\n"}
{"id": "3665169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3665169", "title": "Lahore Declaration", "text": "Lahore Declaration\n\nThe Lahore Declaration was a bilateral agreement and governance treaty between India and Pakistan. The treaty was signed on 21 February 1999, at the conclusion of a historic summit in Lahore, and ratified by the parliaments of both countries the same year.\n\nUnder the terms of the treaty, a mutual understanding was reached towards the development of atomic arsenals and to avoid accidental and unauthorised operational use of nuclear weapons. The Lahore Declaration brought added responsibility to both nations' leadership towards avoiding nuclear race, as well as both non-conventional and conventional conflicts. This event was significant in the history of Pakistan and it provided both countries an environment of mutual confidence. In a much-covered televised press conference in both countries, Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif and Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee signed the treaty. It was the second nuclear control treaty signed by both countries and pledged to continue the use of the first treaty, NNAA, was signed in 1988. The Lahore treaty was quickly ratified by the parliaments of India and Pakistan and came into force the same year.\n\nThe Lahore Declaration signalled a major breakthrough in overcoming the historically strained bilateral relations between the two nations in the aftermath of the publicly performed atomic tests carried out by both nations in May 1998. Widely popular in the public circles in Pakistan and hailed by the international community, the relations would soon lose impetus with the outbreak of the controversial Kargil debacle in May 1999.\n\nThe Lahore treaty was one of the most important and historical treaties of India and Pakistan to normalise the relations to ease up the military tensions in South Asia. In 1972, the Shimla Treaty was acceded to establish peaceful relations in the aftermath of the disastrous war in 1971 and committed both nations to resolving bilateral disputes by peaceful dialogue and co-operation. In 1978, Pakistan made a proposal to limit the nuclear race between two countries and to establish South Asia Nuclear Weapon Free Zone (SANWFZ), for which negotiations were never concluded.\n\nIn 1988, Pakistan and India reached an important understanding towards controlling the nuclear weapons, and signed the NNAA treaty. Despite many proposals, the nuclear race continued and the cold war had been heightened over the issue of Kashmir. The domestic pressure and the increasingly political momentum, India conducted the nuclear tests (see: Operation Shakti) on May 1998, in spite of international pressure. Responding to India's test, Pakistan equalised the nuclear magnitude in South Asia after performing its own series of atomic tests, (see: Chagai-I), all in the end month of May 1998. The tests invited condemnation and economic sanctions on both countries and many fear in the international community that in a wake of intensified conflict, it could lead to nuclear war.\n\nIn 1998, the Foreign ministries of both countries had been initiating peace process to ease up the tension in the region. On 23 September 1998 both governments signed an agreement recognising the principle of building an environment of peace and security and resolving all bilateral conflicts, which became the basis of the Lahore Declaration. On 11 February 1999, the Pakistan Foreign Office announced the state visit of Indian Prime minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee aboard the maiden bus service between the two countries.\n\nBefore the arrival of Indian Prime Minister, a warm welcome awaited Indian Prime Minister Vajpayee when he arrived at Wagah by the inaugural bus service between New Delhi and Lahore. He was received by Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif and the units of Pakistan Army gave the Indian Prime minister a guard of honour. It embarked on a historic visit to Pakistan, travelling on the inaugural bus service connecting the Indian capital of New Delhi with the major Pakistani city of Lahore, establishing a major transport link for the peoples of both nations. The inaugural bus also carried Indian celebrities and dignitaries such as Dev Anand, Satish Gujral, Javed Akhtar, Kuldip Nayar, Kapil Dev, Shatrughan Sinha and Mallika Sarabhai. He was received amidst great fanfare and media attention at the Pakistani border post of Wagah by Pakistan Prime minister Nawaz Sharif, with whom he had been at loggerheads a year before over the nuclear tests controversy. The summit was hailed worldwide as a major breakthrough and milestone in bilateral relations and a historic step towards ending conflict and tensions in the region.\n\nThe Lahore declaration is one notable treaty after the 1988 NNAA treaty and the 1972 Shimla Treaty. After the two Prime ministers signed the agreement, the foreign secretaries of Pakistan Shamshad Ahmad and India K. Raghunath signed an MoU on 21 February 1999, identifying measures aimed at promoting an environment of peace and security between the two countries. The MOU reaffirmed the continued commitment of their respective governments to the principles and purposes of the UN Charter.\n\nThe MoU reiterated the determination of both countries to implementing the Simla Agreement in letter and spirit; and that an environment of peace and security is in the national interest of both countries and that resolution of all outstanding issues, including Jammu and Kashmir, is essential for this purpose. The parliaments of both countries quickly ratified and acceded the treaties following the signatures.\n\nThe Lahore Declaration was signed on 21 February along with a memorandum of understanding (MoU) after three rounds of talks between the Indian and Pakistani leaders. In its content, both governments asserted their commitment to the vision of peace, stability and mutual progress and their full commitment to the Shimla Agreement and the UN Charter. Both governments recognised through the Lahore Declaration that the development of nuclear weapons brought added responsibility to both nations towards avoiding conflict and promoted the importance of Confidence-building measures, especially to avoid accidental and unauthorised use of nuclear weapons. India and Pakistan also decided to give each other advance notification of ballistic missile flight tests and accidental or unexplained use of nuclear weapons to avoid the outbreak of a nuclear conflict. Its important \"inter alia\" stated:\n\n\nThe Lahore Declaration and the MoU incorporated a joint commitment to intensify efforts to resolve the Kashmir conflict and other dispute, to enhance bilateral dialogue and to implement nuclear safeguards and measures to prevent conflict. Both governments condemned terrorism and committed to non-interference in each other's internal affairs and the objectives of the South Asia Association for Regional Cooperation and promote human rights.\n\nIn the joint statement issued after the conclusion of the summit, both governments said that their foreign ministers would meet periodically and consult each other on issues pertaining to the World Trade Organization and information technology. A two-member ministerial committee was to be established to investigate human rights issues, civilian detainees and missing prisoners of war. The Indian Prime Minister thanked his Pakistani counterpart and issued an invitation for a future summit in India.\n\nThe Lahore treaty was very popular in Pakistan's civil society sphere. The general population polls were widely welcomed this move by the Nawaz Sharif Government to normalise relations with India. The news channels, television outlets, and print media widely hailed this move by the Government of Nawaz Sharif to normalise relations with India. Except \"JI\", the far-right party was critical of this treaty; all major political forces in Pakistan, including PPP, hailed and congratulated Nawaz Sharif for successfully reaching the Lahore treaty.\n\nHowever, it was speculated in the Pakistan's news media that many in Pakistan military did not approve of the treaty and consequently worked to subvert it and escalate tensions between the two nations. The reception for Vajpayee, described as the leader of an \"enemy-combatant nation,\" was boycotted by the chiefs of Pakistan military, and those included the Chairman joint chiefs and army chief General Pervez Musharaff, air chief ACM PQ Mehdi and naval chief Admiral Fasih Bokhari. A terrorist attacks claimed the lives of civilians continued even as the summit was about to take place.\n\nThe Lahore Declaration was hailed warmly in India and in the global media and by governments of other nations, forging optimism after the global tensions over the 1998 nuclear tests. The initiative bolstered the popularity of the Vajpayee government in India, cementing his standing as a statesman.\n\nThe relations between the two nations were completely transformed at the outbreak of the Kargil War in May 1999, following the sudden revelation that Pakistani soldiers had infiltrated into Indian Administered Kashmir; the Indian Army was deployed to evict the Pakistan army soldiers and retake capture the disputed territory. The two-month-long conflict claimed the lives of hundreds of soldiers on both sides and brought both nations close to full-scale war and possible nuclear conflict. After this conflict, the \"Lahore Treaty\" was stalled and no further discussions took place between the two countries on promoting the dialogue and CBMs initiated at Lahore in February 1999.\n\nThe conflict was followed by an Atlantique incident in which the Indian Air Force intercept and shot down the Pakistan Navy's reconnaissance aircraft; a total of eleven naval personnel were killed. After months of contentious relations with the military and judiciary, a military coup d'état was staged by Pakistan Armed Forces that overthrew the Government of Nawaz Sharif and brought the chairman joint chiefs General Pervez Musharraf, believed to be responsible for the Kargil incursion, to power, thus exacerbating doubts over the future of the relations between the two nations. Despite many political difficulties, India reiterated the necessity of implementing the Simla and Lahore treaties and said India would support the Simla Agreement, Lahore Declaration, and the issue of cross-border terrorism.\n"}
{"id": "20153125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20153125", "title": "Legal governance, risk management, and compliance", "text": "Legal governance, risk management, and compliance\n\nLegal Governance, Risk Management, and Compliance or \"LGRC\", refers to the complex set of processes, rules, tools and systems used by corporate legal departments to adopt, implement and monitor an integrated approach to business problems.\nWhile Governance, Risk Management, and Compliance refers to a generalized set of tools for managing a corporation or company, Legal GRC, or LGRC, refers to a specialized – but similar – set of tools utilized by attorneys, corporate legal departments, general counsel and law firms to govern themselves and their corporations, especially but not exclusively in relation to the law.\nOther specializations within the realm of governance, risk management and compliance include IT GRC and financial GRC. Within these three realms, there is a great deal of overlap, particularly in large corporations that have legal and IT departments, as well as financial departments.\n\nLegal governance refers to the establishment, execution and interpretation of processes and rules put in place by corporate legal departments in order to ensure a smoothly-run legal department and corporation.\n\nLegal risk management refers to the process of evaluating alternative regulatory and non-regulatory responses to risk and selecting among them. Even with the legal realm, this process requires knowledge of the legal, economic and social factors, as well as knowledge of the business world in which legal teams operate. In an organizational setting, risk management refers to the process by which an organization sets the risk tolerance, identifies potential risks and prioritizes the tolerance for risk based on the organization’s business objectives, and manages and mitigates risks throughout the organization.\n\nLegal compliance is the process or procedure to ensure that an organization follows relevant laws, regulations and business rules. The definition of legal compliance, especially in the context of corporate legal departments, has recently been expanded to include understanding and adhering to ethical codes within entire professions, as well. There are two requirements for an enterprise to be compliant with the law, first its policies need to be consistent with the law. Second, its policies need to be complete with respect to the law.\nThe role of legal compliance has also been expanded to include self-monitoring the non-governed behavior with industries and corporations that could lead to workplace indiscretions.\nWithin the LGRC realm, it is important to keep in mind that if a strong legal governance component is in place, risk can be accurately assessed and the monitoring of legal compliance be carried out efficiently. It is also important to realize that within the LGRC framework, legal teams work closely with executive teams and other business departments to align their goals and ensure proper communication.\n\nLegal Consistency is a property that declares enterprise policies to be free of contradictions with the law. Legal Consistency has been defined as not having multiple verdicts for the same case \n. The antonym Legal Inconsistency is defined as having two rule that contradict each other. Other common definitions of consistency refer to “treating similar cases alike”. In the enterprise context, legal consistency refers to “obedience to the law”. In the context of legal requirements validation, legal consistency is defined as, \" Enterprise requirements are legally consistent if they adhere to the legal requirements and include no contradictions.\"\n\nLegal Completeness is a property that declares enterprise policies to cover all scenarios included or suggested by the law. Completeness suggests that there are no scenarios covered by the law that cannot be implemented in the enterprise. In addition, it implies that all scenarios not allowed by the law are not allowed by the enterprise.\n\nEnterprise policies are said to be legally complete if they contain no gaps in the legal sense. Completeness can be thought of in two ways: Some scholars make use of a concept of ‘obligational’ completeness such as Ayres and Gertner. \nAccording to this usage, a system or a contract is ‘obligationally’ complete if it specifies what each party is to do in every situation, even if this is not the optimal action to take under some circumstances. Others discuss ‘enforceability’ completeness in the sense that failing to specify key terms can lead a court to characterize a system as being too uncertain to enforce (May & Butcher v the King 1934), and hence a system may be complete with respect to enforceability. This leads to the following definition: enterprise regulations or requirements are legally complete if it specifies what each party is to do in each situation while covering all gaps in the legal sense.\n\nLebogang says. Like the Sarbanes-Oxley act, legal industry thought leaders saw a need for a new framework for legal GRC, and borrowed heavily from IT, RIM and other industries to try to come up with new, clear processes and rules to make navigating the choppy waters of the post-financial crisis legal world go as smoothly as possible.\n\nThe Legal GRC Center for Innovation is a nonprofit institute for the advancement of the concepts and applications of Legal GRC. The LGRC Center for Innovation serves as a forum for legal industry leaders to discuss and determine ways to systematize and streamline within the legal industry. The membership of the LGRC-CFI is made up of a group of [thought leaders] in the legal, business, IT, and RIM fields. They meet in online forums and at periodic conventions and summits to determine best practices for Legal GRC. The LGRC-CFI also publishes a blog and several industry-specific white papers regularly. The LGRC Center for Innovation addresses legal governance, risk management, and compliance exclusively.\n\nThe Institute on Governance (IOG), although it does not address LGRC exclusively, is a useful resource for knowledge on governance in general, and has collected some significant basics about legal governance online.\nThe IOG is an independent, Canadian, nonprofit [think tank] founded in 1990 to promote better governance for public benefit. Through our research and services we help public organizations and societies realize their objectives by putting good governance into practice.\n\nThe Association of Corporate Counsel (\"ACC\"), formerly the American Corporate Counsel Association (\"ACCA\"), is an association of in-house counsel, attorneys who work for corporations. The association publishes the magazine ACC Docket and arranges one of the United States’ largest annual meetings for in-house attorneys. ACC was founded in 1982. It currently has more than 24,000 members from over 10,500 corporations in 77 countries.[1]\nThe ACC does not address LGRC exclusively, but can be credited with laying some foundations for corporations – the original practitioners of governance, risk management, and compliance – and legal departments to begin to work together on overarching issues of governance, risk management, and compliance.\n\n"}
{"id": "5756979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5756979", "title": "List of English statutes", "text": "List of English statutes\n\nThis is a list of medieval statutes and other laws issued under royal authority in the Kingdom of England before the development of Parliament. These instruments are not considered to be Acts of Parliament, which can be found instead at the List of Acts of the Parliament of England.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5678544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5678544", "title": "List of law schools in Sweden", "text": "List of law schools in Sweden\n\nThis is a list of law schools in Sweden.\n\nMaster of Laws (\"Juristprogrammet\"):\n\nOther educations in law:\n"}
{"id": "46399898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46399898", "title": "Melissa Rogers", "text": "Melissa Rogers\n\nMelissa Rogers is an American church-state lawyer and non-resident senior fellow in Governance Studies at the Brookings Institution. She previously served as special assistant to President Obama and executive director of the White House Office of Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships.\n\nRogers grew up a member of the Baptist Church. Rogers is a Phi Beta Kappa graduate of Baylor University.[xiii] She holds a law degree from the University of Pennsylvania.\nRogers served as the director of the Center for Religion and Public Affairs at Wake Forest University Divinity School and a non-resident senior fellow at the Brooking Institution. She served as general counsel of the Baptist Joint Committee for Religious Liberty. From 2000-2003, she directed the Pew Forum on Religion and Public Life, a grant project of the Pew Charitable Trusts.\n\nIn 2008 Rogers co-authored a casebook, \"Religious Freedom and the Supreme Court,\" published by Baylor University Press.\nIn 2009, President Obama appointed Rogers to serve as the chair of his Advisory Council on Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships, a panel of faith and civic leaders from different religious and political backgrounds. In 2010, President Obama issued an executive order instructing federal agencies to implement a number of the panel's recommendations. That year Rogers led a group of religious and civil rights leaders in drafting \"Religious Expression in American Public Life: A Joint Statement of Current Law\", which indicates their points of agreement with the law of church and state as it applies to religious expression in the public square. The First Freedom Center gave Rogers its First Freedom Award.\nIn 2011 she was named to a subgroup of the State Department’s Religion and Foreign Policy Working Group. Before her appointment, Rogers had been critical of the Obama administration’s handling of some church-state issues in an interview with the Huffington Post with respect to the Affordable Care Act’s contraception mandate. She stated that the administration erred in only exempting houses of worship from the ACA’s requirement that employers include contraception coverage in their health insurance policies. Her ideas later became the basis for the administration’s accommodation of the interests of a wider set of religious entities.\nIn 2014, the Baptist Joint Committee gave Rogers its J.M. Dawson Religious Liberty Award. In 2015, Rogers continued to lead the White House Office of Faith-Based and Neighborhood Partnerships.\n\nAfter a Sikh man in California was attacked and severely injured, Rogers represented the Obama administration at his house of worship in Rockville, Maryland, where she spoke out against hate crimes. She also spoke at a commemorative service one year after the Charleston Church Shootings.\n\n"}
{"id": "57787415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57787415", "title": "Ministry of Justice (United Arab Emirates)", "text": "Ministry of Justice (United Arab Emirates)\n\nThe Ministry of Justice of the United Arab Emirates was created in 1971, shortly after the federal government was established. The ministry oversees the court system of the United Arab Emirates and any associated prosecutorial services. Other responsibilities include appointing judges and providing licenses to attorneys, translators, and legal experts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25146700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25146700", "title": "National Elections Commission (Liberia)", "text": "National Elections Commission (Liberia)\n\nThe National Elections Commission (NEC) of the Republic of Liberia is an autonomous agency in Liberia that supervises the national elections of Liberia.\n\nThe following people are members of the Commission of 2013\n\nIn 2009, a $17.5 million contract was offered to the NEC by USAID through the International Foundation for Electoral Systems. The money was provided to support the Commission in holding the 2011 and 2014 general elections. The aid was greeted by then election commissioner, James Fromayan.\n"}
{"id": "1312284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1312284", "title": "Official Language Act (Quebec)", "text": "Official Language Act (Quebec)\n\nThe Official Language Act of 1974 (French \"Loi sur la langue officielle\"), also known as Bill 22, was an act of the National Assembly of Quebec, commissioned by Premier Robert Bourassa, which made French the sole official language of Quebec, Canada. Provincial desire for the Official Language Act came after the repeal of Bill 63. It was ultimately supplanted by the Charter of the French Language (also known as Bill 101) in 1977, which imposed French as the only language for advertising and education (with many exceptions).\n\nThe legislation was drafted in an attempt to follow the recommendations of the Commission of Inquiry on the Situation of the French Language and Linguistic Rights in Quebec. The act made French the official language in a number of areas:\n\nThat English was an official language in Quebec as well, was declared on July 19, 1974, by McGill University law faculty's most expert counsellors, disputing Bill 22. The testifiers were Dean Frank R. Scott, John Peters Humphrey, chief planner of the United Nations' Declaration of Human Rights, Irwin Cotler and four additional legal teachers:\n\nSection 1, which provides that French is 'the official language of the province of Quebec,' is misleading in that it suggests that English is not also an official language in Quebec, which it is by virtue of Section 133 of the BNA Act and the federal Official Languages Act. ... No legislation in the National Assembly proclaiming French the sole official language in the province can affect these bilingual areas protected by the BNA Act.\n\nJohn Ciaccia and George Springate were suspended from the Liberal caucus for almost two months in 1974 for voting with the Opposition when the Robert Bourassa government passed Bill 22.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38108305", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38108305", "title": "Patent box", "text": "Patent box\n\nA patent box is a special tax regime used by several countries to incentivise research and development by taxing patent revenues differently from other commercial revenues. It is also known as intellectual property box regime, innovation box or IP box.\nIn the early 1970s Ireland introduced the first scheme in its Corporation Tax. Section 34 of the 1973 Finance Act allowed total tax relief in respect of royalties and other income from licenses patented in Ireland. \n\nThe concept was applied in 2001 by the French Tax Authorities as a reduced rate of tax on revenue from IP licensing or the transfer of qualified IP. Within Europe, Belgium, Hungary, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Spain and the United Kingdom have also introduced similar schemes.\n\nThe Irish Patent Box system is one of the key benefits for companies paying Irish corporation tax. The system was criticised by Lionel Jospin in the early 2000s and more recently by both the EU (Ecofin assessment 2014) and the OECD under its Base Erosion and Profit-Shifting (BEPS) project. The system has been key to attracting international IT companies to Ireland. The economic benefits of beneficial tax regimes for revenues from patents led to similar schemes being introduced in France in 2000 and amended in 2005 & 2010.\n\nIP box rules were changed in October 2016, valid since July 2016 - reduced the list of the qualified IP incomes, no patents nor trademarks anymore. 80% of income is exempted after deducting the real expenses, giving an effective tax rate of 2.5% or less.\n\nThe scheme which had existed since 1973 was withdrawn in 2010 under the National recovery Plan 2011-2015 of the Republic of Ireland. It exempted revenue from qualifying Patents from Irish corporation tax. The exemption is to be replaced by a “Knowledge Development Box” in 2015 offering a reduced tax rate of 6.25% on qualifying profits generated in periods commencing on or after 1 January 2016.\n\nThe key difference in the Irish KDB to those of other European countries is its compliance with the OECD’s Base Erosion and Profit Shifting (BEPS) programme, Ireland’s is the first patent-box type system to offer compliance in this area. Companies availing of the current R&D tax credit should be aware of the KDB and the potential for them to take advantage of both systems.\n\nIntroduced in 1979 the Patents and royalties regime allows companies paying French corporation tax to pay a reduced rate of 15% (instead of 33%) on patent and royalties income as they are treated as a long term capital gain. If the licensee is a French corporation and actually uses the qualified IP licensed, the licensee may deduct the royalty payments from its income taxable at the standard 33.33% rate even if the licensor is taxed at the reduced 15% rate\n\nThe Netherlands introduced a patent box tax regime referred to as the ‘innovation box’ in January 2007. This initial regime applied only to patents and applied a 10% rate of corporate tax. On 1 January 2010 the regime was expanded to include a much wider range of IP and the headline rate was reduced to 5%. The reduced rate of corporate tax applies to the net positive income derived from the qualifying IP ( gross income minus all related expenses and depreciation).\n\nThe patent box scheme in Belgium was introduced in January 2007, and is known as a patent income deduction (PID). The last revision applies from July 2016. This PID allows a company, liable to pay Corporation Tax in Belgium, to deduct from its taxable income 85% of gross patent income. The remaining 15% of gross patent income is taxed at the standard corporation tax rate of 34% (including a 3% surtax). This results in an effective tax rate of 5.1% on the qualifying income.\n\nThe Luxembourg IP regime has been abolished. IP regimes claimed before July 2016 can still continue to benefit from the preferential rate for the next 5 years. It is expected that Luxembourg creates a new IP regime following the OECD criteria.\n\nIn Luxembourg IP regime became effective in January 2008 and amended in 2008 to also exclude qualifying IP assets from Luxembourg’s net wealth tax. The scheme applies to the net income derived from the use of qualifying intellectual property acquired or developed after December 2007. 80% of income is exempted, giving an effective tax rate of 5.76%.\n\nHungary introduced a scheme in 2003 including a provision according to which 50% of the pre-tax amount of the royalties received may be deducted from the tax base, this reducing the effective corporate tax rate on such royalties from 9% to 4.5%. The legislation is BEPS compliant.\n\nAs of January 1, 2008, 50% of the gross income of Spanish domiciled companies derived from qualified Intellectual Property is exempt from Spain’s Corporation tax resulting in an effective tax rate of 15%.\n\nThe United Kingdom introduced a Patent Box scheme in 2013 taxing qualifying IP at 10%.\nThe Patent Box in the UK is a tax incentive introduced in 2013 designed to encourage companies to make profits from their patents by reducing the UK tax paid on those profits.\n\nThe UK Patent Box went live in April 2013. The UK government wants to encourage high-value growth in UK plc through a competitive tax regime that supports UK R&D from conception to commercialisation. The Patent Box forms a key part of this strategy by encouraging companies to \"commercialise\" their patents and R&D in the UK. Other countries (eg.Belgium, Luxembourg, the Netherlands) already operate schemes to provide incentives for companies to retain and commercialise existing patents\n\nThe scheme was first proposed in the 2009 Pre-Budget Report and went through various iterations and public consultations until final legislation was passed in the Finance Act 2012. The legislation is now formally a new Part 8A of the Corporation Tax Act 2010 entitled \"Profits Arising from the Exploitation of Patents etc\". The Finance (No.2 Bill) 2015/16 includes proposed amendments, which, if implemented, will amend the patent box rules.\n\nThe Patent Box initiative is complementary to the R&D tax incentives which encourage companies to \"undertake\" their R&D in the UKhb\n\nThe Patent Box allows a 10% tax rate on profits derived from any products that incorporate patents. The net benefit for claiming companies is likely to be several percentage points of their corporate earnings, given that the main rate of UK corporation tax is 20 per cent.\n\nThe steady state cost, after the initial phasing- in period, of the Patent Box is forecast to be approximately £1.1 billion in terms of corporation tax revenues foregone by HM Treasury.\n\nThe claim process is as follows:\n\nCompanies must calculate their qualifying Patent Box profit and then apply a specific formula in their tax computation to calculate the deduction in their tax liability. Then they can take the tax deduction as a benefit in their CT600 tax return.\nThe formula to calculate the amount of the tax deduction is\n\nwhere \n\nQualifying patents must have been granted by an approved patent-granting body, including the UK Intellectual Property Office, the European Patent Office, and designated European territories: Austria; Bulgaria; the Czech republic; Denmark; Estonia; Finland; Germany; Hungary; Poland; Portugal; Romania; Slovakia and Sweden.\n\nCurrently, the Patent Box excludes patents registered in territories such as the USA, France, and Spain because of differences in the search and approval process for patent applications.\n\nThe Patent Box excludes products that only have copyright or trademark protection.\n\nThere are five categories (“heads”) of qualifying income: \n\nIncome generated from exclusive licenses will be qualifying income on both sides of the agreement – i.e. for the licensor \"and\" the licensee – subject to specific conditions concerning the meaning of exclusivity.\n\n“IP-derived income”, where patented products or processes are used in the manufacture or delivery of non-patented products or services, will be qualifying income to the extent of a notional royalty which values the specific patented product or process as a proportion of the value of the non-patented product or service.\n\n\n\nThe following situations will be against the law:\nReasonable and commercially appropriate steps to restructure corporate arrangements to take advantage of the Patent Box will be considered legitimate.\n\n\nThe Enterprise Investment Scheme (EIS) and Seed Enterprise Investment Scheme (SEIS) give generous income and capital gains tax relief to individuals who invest in small early stage businesses.\n\nThe government established a working group to complement wider consultation on the Patent Box and to discuss options and proposals in more detail. Members of the Working Group include representatives from: HMRC and HM Treasury; industry (GlaxoSmithKline; Dyson; ARMSyngenta), the financial services community including large accounting firms (PWC; Deloitte; KPMG; Ernst and Young); independent consultants and representatives from the technology commercialisation sphere and professional bodies.\n\nThe UK government is in the process of gathering evidence to submit to the Forum for Harmful Tax Practices (FHTP), part of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD), in the forum's work on international base erosion and profit shifting, specifically Action Point 5 of the OECD Action Plan published in July 2013. The forum provides member countries with the opportunity to review each other’s tax arrangements and to challenge harmful tax initiatives.\n\nAction 5 focuses on “substantial activity” that must occur in a jurisdiction for a company to benefit from a specific preferential tax regime.\n\nThe UK government publicly supports the current work around Action 5 to ensure a better understanding of what constitutes economic substance when businesses carry out R&D activities, so as to effectively address those instances where preferential tax regimes might present an opportunity to shift profits.\n\nOptions being discussed include a new method of calculating benefits for IP-incentive tax schemes. This is the so-called nexus approach (where underlying expenditure to create the IP is used to define the proportion of qualifying income generated from the IP), rather than the conventional transfer pricing approach (where transfer pricing principles define a substantial activity test and either the IP commercialisation activity passes the test or it does not, and all IP income thus either qualifies or it does not).\n\nThese discussions are also informed by work being carried out by the Economic and Financial Affairs Council (ECOFIN) and the EU Code of Conduct Group, which started in 2013 to look at the workings of the UK Patent Box scheme. The Code of Conduct Group operates on a similar basis to the FHTP. The Code of Conduct Group partnered with the FHTP in these discussions in early 2014.\n\nFollowing a sustained period of international tax scrutiny led by Germany in the FHTP and the EU Code of Conduct Group, a compromise agreement for the UK patent box scheme based on a modified nexus approach was announced by the UK and Germany on 11 November 2014. The acceptance of a nexus based approach will have significant implications for the UK patent box scheme; fundamentally, patent box relief will now be restricted to profits generated from IP initially developed in the UK.\nThe main points in the Anglo-German accord have been announced as follows:\nThe UK and Germany submitted their proposal to the OECD Forum on Harmful Tax Practices during its meeting on 17–19 November, and they have also committed to seek formal approval from the OECD and G20 at the January 2015 meeting of the OECD’s Committee on Fiscal Affairs.\n\nSwitzerland allows companies who predominantly trade internationally to benefit from the advantageous “mixed-company” status that allows them to be taxed at a rate of just 8,5%. In 2007 the European Commission alleged the tax schemes for holding, mixed and domiciliary companies violated the 1972 FTA between the EU and Switzerland as it was State Aid. Although the Swiss government refuted the allegation in May 2012 the Swiss cantons gave the federal government the go-ahead to commence a tax dialogue with the EU. In May 2014 the EU and Switzerland reached an agreement whereby the disputed tax regimes would be abolished.\n\nIn 2011 the canton of Nidwalden introduced the Licence Box rule which allows companies located in Nidwalden to benefit from a cantonal tax rate on net license income reduced by 80% the effective corporate income tax rate is 8.8%\n\n\nCriticism\n\nResources\n"}
{"id": "1033182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1033182", "title": "Pet passport", "text": "Pet passport\n\nThe Pet Travel Scheme (\"PETS\") is a system which allows animals to travel easily between member countries without undergoing quarantine. A pet passport is a document that officially records information related to a specific animal, as part of that procedure. The effect is to drastically speed up and simplify travel with and transport of animals between member countries, compared to previous procedures, if the regulations are followed.\n\nPETS was originally introduced for the benefit of animals entering or returning to the United Kingdom from other European Union countries, since historically the UK had very strong controls to safeguard against rabies including a compulsory six-month quarantine period on imports of many animals.\n\nOn 1 October 2001, a number of European Union countries introduced the PETS scheme, under which animals from any member country may freely travel (with the correct procedure) to any other member country on approved carriers. Over time the scheme has rolled out to other countries such as the United States, Canada, Australia and New Zealand.\n\nThe pet passport itself comes in multiple forms, sometimes a pink A4 sheet, sometimes a small blue booklet. It contains the microchip or tattoo number of the animal, the certification that it has had a rabies vaccination, and needs to be signed by an officially approved veterinary surgeon.\n\nA new style passport with laminated strips and additional security measures was introduced in the UK in December 2014. Old style passports remain valid.\n\nThe passport is not to be confused with a much smaller folder (sometimes purple coloured), routinely issued by vets, which records the complete vaccination history of the pet.\n\nEvery country has different requirements, both for export and import of animals, although some features are common to all.\n\nAll countries:\nSome countries:\n\nIn some countries the formal passport is needed. Others will accept documentation in any form so long as it provides clear evidence of the procedure being followed. Usually the animal and its papers are checked thoroughly both on boarding or export and upon arrival.\n\nA pet passport alone can be used to enter some countries if it records all relevant information (e.g., the UK), but it will not suffice to enter many countries. For instance Guatemala, in common with almost every country operating such a scheme, demands that all imported pets have a rabies vaccination, but will not accept the pet passport as proof of said vaccination. They require the proof of the rabies vaccination in the animal's records.\n\nTapeworm treatment must be administered by a vet not less than 24 hours and not more than 120 hours (1–5 days) before scheduled arrival time.\n\nTapeworm treatment – (dogs only): before entering the UK, all pet dogs (including assistance dogs) must be treated for tapeworm. The treatment must be administered by a vet not less than 24 hours and not more than 120 hours (1–5 days) before its scheduled arrival time in the UK. (There is no mandatory requirement for tick treatment. No treatment is required for dogs entering the UK from Finland, Ireland or Malta).\n\nProhibition on the transport of dogs and cats in the passenger cabin, or as baggage – British law precludes all animals entering the UK either in the cabin or in the hold as 'excess' or 'checked' baggage. Unlike the UK, most western countries do allow airlines to carry dogs/cats on flights provided that specific requirements are met regarding the container in which the pet will travel.\n\nAll animals (except guide dogs) travelling to the UK must travel in the hold as manifest cargo. Most airlines do not offer cargo services to individual passengers directly and specialist agents must be used. UK law does not prohibit the transport of dogs and cats in the cabin or as hold baggage when departing from the UK, but restrictions may be imposed by individual airlines or destination countries. See Other useful information below for further travel details.\n\nAlthough a participant in the PETs scheme, to bring pets into Japan from member states there are several separate procedures that must be followed. These do not cover Iceland, Australia, New Zealand, Fiji, Hawaii, and Guam, which have designated region (rabies free) status. If you take a pet out of Japan, it may take between 6 months to a year for it to re-enter. Including prior contact with Japanese Quarantine several months before entry:\n\nTo take a dog or cat out of Japan, on top of the necessary injections and microchip, you must:\n\nThe PETS scheme is not yet standardised. This leads to much confusion. Every journey between any two countries should be researched separately to ensure that the animal will be accepted for travel upon arrival at the departure point.\n\n\nA correctly prepared cat or dog may be imported without quarantine into the United Kingdom from the following countries under the \"pet passport\" scheme, but only by an authorised transport company:\n\nAndorra, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, Gibraltar, Greece, Hong Kong, Iceland, Italy, Liechtenstein, Luxembourg, Monaco, Netherlands, Norway, Portugal, San Marino, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland and the Vatican, Antigua and Barbuda, Ascension Island, Australia, Barbados, Bahrain, Bermuda, Cayman Islands, Cyprus, Falkland Islands, Fiji, French Polynesia, Guadeloupe, Jamaica, Japan, Réunion, Malta, Martinique, Mauritius, Mayotte, Montserrat, New Caledonia, New Zealand, St. Helena, St. Kitts & Nevis, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, Singapore, Sweden, Taiwan, United States, Vanuatu, Wallis and Futuna.\n\n"}
{"id": "38388438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38388438", "title": "Pickup v. Brown and Welch v. Brown", "text": "Pickup v. Brown and Welch v. Brown\n\nPickup v. Brown (12-17681) and Welch v. Brown (13-15023) are 2012 lawsuits in the United States challenging the constitutionality of California Senate bill SB 1172, which banned conversion therapy (therapy aimed at changing sexual orientation) on children under the age of 18, effective January 2013.\n\nThe lead plaintiff in \"Pickup\" is David Pickup, a conversion therapist and spokesman for the National Association for Research & Therapy of Homosexuality. Additional plaintiffs include several conversion therapy practitioners, two anonymous minors, and two anonymous parents. The defendants in the case include the Governor of California Jerry Brown, the Secretary of the State and Consumer Services Agency, the Executive Officer of the California Board of Behavioral Sciences, the President of the California Board of Psychology, and the President of the Medical Board of California, all in their official capacities.\n\nIn December 2012, the district court judge hearing \"Pickup\" declined to issue an injunction blocking SB 1172, but the judge hearing \"Welch\" did issue an injunction. Both cases were appealed to the Ninth Circuit and consolidated. The circuit court heard oral arguments in the cases on April 17, 2013, and on August 29 upheld SB 1172 and reversed the lower court order granting a preliminary injunction. \"The plaintiffs in the case asked the Supreme Court of the United States to review the Ninth Circuit’s decision. However, on June 30, 2014, the Supreme Court declined to grant review, sending the law into effect.\" The Supreme Court later explicitly referenced a specific line of argument in this case relating to the standard of scrutiny that should be afforded to regulations of professional speech.\n"}
{"id": "2938157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2938157", "title": "Romanus Pontifex", "text": "Romanus Pontifex\n\nRomanus Pontifex, Latin for \"The Roman Pontiff\", is a papal bull written in 1454 by Pope Nicholas V to King Afonso V of Portugal. As a follow-up to the \"Dum Diversas\", it confirmed to the Crown of Portugal dominion over all lands south of Cape Bojador in Africa. Along with encouraging the seizure of the lands of Saracen Turks and non-Christians, it repeated the earlier bull's permission for the enslavement of such peoples. The bull's primary purpose was to forbid other Christian nations from infringing the King of Portugal's rights of trade and colonisation in these regions, particularly amid the Portuguese and Castilian competition for ascendancy over new lands discovered.\n\nThis bull should not be confused with a September 21, 1451 bull by the same name, also written by Nicholas V, relieving the dukes of Austria from any potential ecclesiastical censure for permitting Jews to dwell there. \n\nAround 1312 Genoese navigator Lancelotto Malocello came upon the Canary Islands. The Portuguese travelled there in 1341 both to trade and raid. By 1346 slave raiding was occurring. However, the first attempt at permanent colonization was sponsored by the Castilians in 1402. During the 14th century, a variety of forces competed for control of the Canaries: Genoese, Catalan-Mallorcan, Castilian, and Portuguese. In the following century, Castile and Portugal were the primary contenders.\n\nIn the early 15th century the Portuguese searched for a sea route to India to participate in the spice trade. As a first step, Prince Henry the Navigator launched expeditions to explore the West Coast of Africa. This experience, exerted a deep impression so that his reign later on was marked by an ambitious expansion that resulted to exploratory achievements. This, however, led to disputes between the Portuguese and the Castilians regarding control along the African coast. As an independent third party, the Pope would, on occasion, be asked to arbitrate disputes between kingdoms. On January 5, 1443, in the papal bull \"Rex regum\", Eugenius IV took a neutral position on the disputed claims of Castile and Portugal over territory in Africa, which both claimed.\n\nIt was not until Alfonso V of Portugal responded to a Papal call for aid against the Turks, who eventually seized Constantinople in 1453, that Pope Nicholas V supported the Portuguese claims in the bull \"Dum Diversas\".\n\nNonetheless, in 1454 a fleet of caravels from Seville and Cadiz traded along the African coast and upon their return, were intercepted by a Portuguese squadron. One of the ships was captured with crew and cargo taken to Portugal. Enrique IV of Castile threatened war. Afonso V appealed to the Pope for moral support of Portugal's right to a monopoly of trade in lands she discovered.\n\nThe bull, issued in January 1454, endorsed Portuguese possession of Cueta (which they already held), and the exclusive right to trade, navigation, and fishing in the discovered lands. It provided an exemption from a Canon Law prohibition of trading with infidels. The bull also allowed enslavement of natives, principally for use as slaves for rowing in galleys, similar to the treatment captured Christians afforded in Islamic territories.\n\nThe bull praises earlier Portuguese victories against the Muslims of North Africa and the success of expeditions of discovery and conquest to the Azores and to Africa south of Cape Bojador. It also repeats earlier injunctions not to supply items useful in war such as weaponry, iron or timber to either Muslims or non-Christians. In \"Dum Diversas\", the European trade with Muslims was strictly prohibited but the \"Romanus Pontifex\" gave the King of Portugal an exception, provided that the trade did not include iron, weapons, and wood for building. Overall, there were the threats of ecclesiastical punishments, including excommunication and interdiction, for those who violate the provisions of the papal grant. \n\nThe substance of the Bull's articles are as follows:\n\nKing Afonso V gave a ceremonial lecture on the bull in Lisbon Cathedral on October 5, 1455 to inform the foreign representatives of commerce. With the bull the Portuguese had a monopoly for trade in the new areas in Africa and Asia. It also served as the legal basis for boarding foreign ships in that area. Historian Stephen Bown notes that, \"... Prince Henry and King Afonso V had now also shrouded Portuguese commercial activities in a cloak of pious devotion to the church's work\". Along with the right of conquest, the \"Romanus Pontifex\" effectively made the Portuguese king and his representatives as the church's direct agents of ecclesiastical administration and expansion. The Portuguese authorities sent to colonise lands were not only commanded to build churches, monasteries, and holy places, but also authorized to perform religious functions such as hearing confessions, granting of absolution, and the administration of sacraments.\n\nIn 1493 Pope Alexander VI issued the Bull \"Inter caetera\" stating one Christian nation did not have the right to establish dominion over lands previously dominated by another Christian nation. Together, the \"Dum Diversas\", the \"Romanus Pontifex\" and the \"Inter Caetera\" have been interpreted as serving as a justification for the Age of Imperialism. They were also early influences on the development of the slave trade of the 15th and 16th centuries, even though the papal bull Sublimus Dei of 1537 forbade the enslavement of non-Christians. The executive brief for Sublimus Dei was withdrawn by the Pope after protests by the Spanish monarchy. Paul III publicly sanctioned slavery in Rome in 1545, the enslavement of Henry VIII in 1547 and the purchase of Muslim slaves in 1548.\n\nNorman Housley observes that \"it would be unfair to criticize the papal court exclusively for its failure to be more discriminating in its grants or to take more frequently the kind of action which Eugenius IV adopted in 1454 over the Canaries\". The idea of discovery, and the conversion and enslavement that accompanied it, were identified with hard-held concepts of crusade and chivalry at that time.\n\nIn the 1823 case \"Johnson v. M'Intosh\" Chief Justice John Marshall found a \"universal recognition\" of a so-called Discovery doctrine that held that discovery gave title to the government by whose subjects, or by whose authority, it was made, against all other European governments, which title might be consummated by possession.\n\nSpain did not rest her title solely on the grant of the Pope. Her discussions respecting boundary, with France, with Great Britain, and with the United States, all show that she placed it on the rights given by discovery. Portugal sustained her claim to the Brazils by the same title.\n\nMost of the opinion is dicta; thus, all that the opinion holds with respect to aboriginal title is that it is inalienable, a principle that remains well-established law in nearly all common law jurisdictions.\n\nThis decision was upheld in the 1831 case \"Cherokee Nation v. Georgia\", giving Georgia authority to extend state laws over Cherokees within the state, and famously describing Native American tribes as \"domestic dependent nations.\" This decision was modified in \"Worcester v. Georgia\", which stated that the U.S. federal government, and not individual states, had authority in Indian affairs, but it maintained the loss of right to title upon discovery by Europeans.\n\nIn recent years, Native American groups including the Taíno and Onondaga have called on the Vatican to revoke the bulls of 1452, 1455, and 1493. The Haudenosaunee countered the papal bulls with the Two Row Wampum conditionally accepting the bulls stating through the two row wampum \"You say that you are our Father and I am your Son We will not be like Father and Son, but like Brothers. This wampum belt confirms our words. '. Neither of us will make compulsory laws or interfere in the internal affairs of the other. Neither of us will try to steer the other's vessel.\"\n\nAfter Vasco da Gama found the sea route to India in 1498, the Portuguese practiced trading for four centuries. Portuguese clerics were only responsible for the needs of the Portuguese, and clerics of other nations were not allowed to operate in Portuguese India.\n\nIn Goa, envoys of the Pope were arrested and sent back to Portugal.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38410581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38410581", "title": "Section 5 of Indian Limitation Act", "text": "Section 5 of Indian Limitation Act\n\nSection 5 of the Indian Limitation Act, 1963 (Act 36 of 1963)is an enabling provision to assist the litigants who failed to do an act within the prescribed time period as originally fixed under various enactments. Whether Section 5 of the Indian Limitation Act, 1963 will applicable to the Execution Proceedings instituted under the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (Act 5 of 1908)?.\n\nSection 5 of the Indian Limitation Act, 1963 (Act 36 of 1963)is an enabling provision to assist the litigants who failed to do an act within the prescribed time period as originally fixed under the various enactments. For example, a litigant who failed to file an Appeal before the superior courts within the permissible time period as originally fixed then he can file it after the expiry of the prescribed time period provided he has to show “sufficient cause” for non-filing the Appeal within the time period. Likewise while running a case either before the subordinates’ courts or any superior courts; the litigants have to file necessary applications under various enactments for smooth running of the case, but such an applications has not been filed in-time then he can file it latter on provided he has to shown “sufficient cause” for late filing of the same.\n\n\nSection 5 of the Indian Limitation Act, 1963 which runs as follows:\n\n\"5. Extension of prescribed period in certain cases: Any appeal or any application, other than an application under any of the provisions of Order XXI of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908), may be admitted after the prescribed period, if the appellant or the applicant satisfies the court that he had sufficient cause for not preferring the appeal or making the application within such period.\"\n\n\"Explanation:\" The fact that the appellant or the applicant was misled by any order, practice or judgment of the High Court in ascertaining or computing the prescribed period may be sufficient cause within the meaning of this section.\n\n\"Rule 105: Hearing of application: (1) The Court, before which an application under any of the foregoing rules of this Order is pending, may fix a day for the hearing of the application.\n\n(2) Where on the day fixed or on any other day to which the hearing may be adjourned the applicant does not appear when the case is called on for hearing, the Court may make an order that the application be dismissed.\n\n(3) Where the applicant appears and the opposite party to whom the notice has been issued by the Court does not appear, the Court may hear the application exparte and pass such order as it thinks fit.\"\n\n\"Explanation:\" An application referred to in sub-rule (1) includes a claim or objection made under rule 58.\n\nThereafter a proviso was added to sub-rule (3) by way of an Amendment made by the Madras High Court which was published by the Tamil Nadu Government Gazette dated 27-02-1972, Part V, Page 1523 which is applicable to both Tamil Nadu and Puducherry Courts and the proviso which runs as follows: \"“Provided that an application may be admitted after the said period of thirty days if the applicant satisfies the Court that he had sufficient cause for not making the application within such period”\"\n\nA major amendment was made to the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908) by way of Amendment Act 104 of 1976, Amendment Act 46 of 1999 and Amendment Act 22 of 2002 and all those Amendment Acts in its \"“Repeal and Savings Clauses”\" clearly specifics that any amendment made or any provision inserted in the principal Act by a State Legislature or High Court shall also stand repealed, except insofar as it is consistent with the provisions of the principal Act.\n\nSo again a doubt arises that what is meant by \"“Principal Act”\" with reference to the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908) for which lot of judicial pronouncements are there which unanimously held that \"“Principal Act”\" which refers only to the \"body of the Code\" or the \"Sections Part of the Code\" and not to the First Schedule of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908.\n\nAs such in view of Section 122 of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 the High Courts have the powers to annul, alter or add to all or any of the rules in the First Schedule of Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 and it implies that the High Courts have not powers to amend the \"body of the Code\" or the \"Sections Part of the Code\"...\n\nIn view of the Amendments made to the First Schedule of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908) which discusses the Orders and Rules for implementing the Act among which a Proviso to sub-rule (3) of Rule 105 of Order XXI which paves ways to the defaulting litigants who satisfies the Court that he had “sufficient cause” for not making the application within the prescribed period.\n\nSo Section 5 of the Indian Limitation Act, 1963 which strictly prohibits from entertaining any application under this Section before the Executing Court which implies in its words that, “Any appeal or any application, other than an application under any of the provisions of Order XXI of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908)\" as such the Madras High Court has made an Amendment to the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 thereby a new Proviso was added to sub-rule (3) to Rule 105 of Order XXI (vide Tamil Nadu Government Gazette dated 27-02-1972, Part V, Page 1523) which paves ways to the defaulting litigants who satisfies the Court that he had “sufficient cause” for not making the application within the prescribed period as held by the Hon’ble Madras High Court in its landmark decision dated 12-08-2011 in N.Rajendran Vs. Shriram Chits Tamil Nadu Private Limited, rep. by its Branch Manager which is reported in [2011 (5) Madras Law Weekly 174].\n\nAs mandated under Section 5 of the Indian Limitation Act, 1963 (Act 36 of 1963) no application would be maintainable before the Executing Court under this provision as such it is clearly concluded that Section 5 of the Indian Limitation Act, 1963 is strictly non-applicable to Execution Proceedings and the aggrieving party who lost his rights by way of his default may seek remedy under the provisions of the Code of Civil Procedure, 1908 (5 of 1908) itself since it seems to be a “Self-contained Enactment” for every exigencies arisen thereof.\n\n 4. http://courtverdict.com/\n\n"}
{"id": "1234366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1234366", "title": "Solemn vow", "text": "Solemn vow\n\nIn Catholic canon law, a solemn vow is a vow (\"a deliberate and free promise made to God about a possible and better good\") that the Church has recognized as such.\n\nAny other vow, public or private, individual or collective, concerned with an action or with abstaining from an action, is a simple vow. Even a vow accepted by a legitimate superior in the name of the Church (the definition of a \"public vow\") is a simple vow if the Church has not granted it recognition as a solemn vow. In canon law a vow is public (concerning the Church itself directly) only if a legitimate superior accepts it in the name of the Church; all other vows, no matter how much publicity is given to them, are classified as private vows (concerning directly only those who make them). The vow taken at profession as a member of any religious institute is a public vow, but in recent centuries can be either solemn or simple.\n\nThere is disagreement among theologians as to whether the distinction between solemn and simple vows derives simply from a decision of the Church to treat them differently or whether, in line with the opinion of Saint Thomas Aquinas, a solemn vow is, antecedently to any decision by the Church, a more strict, perfect and complete consecration to God.\n\nAquinas held that the only vows that could be considered solemn were those made by receiving the holy orders as a member of the Catholic Hierarchy, or by the religious profession of the rule as a member of a Catholic religious order. As a unique exception to this traditional dichotomy, the Benedictine abbots could be consecrated bishops by an analogue apostolic authority (like another bishop, an archbishop, or the pope). This practice was contemplated by the canonical law since the Middle Age, as it is testified by the later life of Peter Cellensis. Since the XVIII century, consecrators and episcopal lineage were extended to the Benedectine monks-bishops.\n\nAs support for his view, he cited the fact that these two vows alone were considered to make the celebration of marriage invalid. A man who promised, either to a human being or to God (thus making a vow), to marry a certain woman was bound by that promise or vow, but if he broke it and married a different woman, the marriage was nonetheless considered valid. Similarly, if he made a vow to enter a particular religious institute or become a priest, but instead entered a different institute or decided to marry, the religious profession or the marriage, despite being a violation of his vow, was still considered valid. But once he had received holy orders or made religious profession, any marriage he contracted was considered null and void.\n\nSolemn vows were originally considered indissoluble. Not even the Pope could dispense from them. If for a just cause a religious was expelled, the vow of chastity remained unchanged and so rendered invalid any attempt at marriage, the vow of obedience obliged in relation, generally, to the bishop rather than to the religious superior, and the vow of poverty was modified to meet the new situation but the expelled religious \"could not, for example, will any goods to another; and goods which came to him reverted at his death to his institute or to the Holy See\".\n\nOriginally, the vows taken by profession in any of the religious institutes approved by the Holy See were classified not only as public but also as solemn. This was declared by Pope Boniface VIII (1235 – 1303).\n\nThe situation changed in the 16th century. In 1521, two years after the Fifth Lateran Council had forbidden the establishment of new religious institutes, Pope Leo X appointed a rule with simple vows for those tertiaries attached to existing institutes who undertook to live in a community. In 1566 and 1568, Pope Pius V rejected this class of institute, but they continued to exist and even increased in number. After at first being merely tolerated, they afterwards obtained approval. Only on almost the last day of the 19th century were they officially reckoned as religious, when Pope Leo XIII recognized as religious all men and women who took simple vows in such congregations.\n\nA special case applied to the Jesuits. In the 16th century, Ignatius of Loyola obtained authorization for the members of the Society of Jesus to be divided into the professed with solemn vows and the coadjutors with dispensable simple vows. Nevertheless, before Pope Leo XIII's reforms in the 19th century, these simple vows constituted them religious in the true and proper sense of the word, with the consequent privileges and exemption of regulars, including the vows being a diriment impediment to matrimony, etc. In theory, the recognition as religious for simple vows had universal validity, but in practice, the Roman Curia considered it an exclusive privilege to the Society of Jesus.\n\nOn the basis of the distinction between solemn and simple vows, the 1917 Code of Canon Law made several other distinctions in relation to religious institutes, which it defined as legitimately established associations in accordance with which the members make public vows, either perpetual vows or temporary ones that are to be renewed periodically. It reserved the name \"religious \"order\"\" for institutes in which the vows were solemn, and used the term \"religious \"congregation\"\" for those with simple vows. The members of a religious \"order\" for men were called \"regulars\", those belonging to a religious \"congregation\" were simply \"religious\", a term that applied also to regulars. For women, those with simple vows were simply \"sisters\", with the term \"nun\" reserved in canon law for those who belonged to an institute of solemn vows, even if in some localities they were allowed to take simple vows instead.\n\nHowever, the 1917 Code abolished the distinction according to which solemn vows, unlike simple vows, were indissoluble. It recognized no totally indispensable religious vows and thereby abrogated for the Latin Church the special consecration that distinguished \"orders\" from \"congregations\", while keeping some juridical distinctions.\n\nA juridical distinction that the 1917 Code maintained was its declaring invalid any marriage attempted by solemnly professed religious or by those with simple vows to which the Holy See had attached the effect of invalidating marriage, while stating that no simple vow rendered a marriage invalid, except in the cases in which the Holy See directed otherwise. Thus solemnly professed religious were barred absolutely from marriage, and any marriage they attempted was invalid. Those who made simple vows were obliged not to marry, but if they did break their vow, the marriage was considered valid but illicit.\n\nAnother difference was that a professed religious of solemn vows lost the right to own property and the capacity to acquire temporal goods for himself or herself, but a professed religious of simple vows, while being prohibited by the vow of poverty from using and administering property, kept ownership and the right to acquire more, unless the constitutions of the religious institute explicitly stated the contrary.\n\nThese were two of the nine juridical consequences (apart from spiritual effects) of the difference between solemn and simple vows.\n\nAfter publication of the 1917 Code, many institutes with simple vows appealed to the Holy See for permission to make solemn vows. The Apostolic Constitution \"Sponsa Christi\" of 21 November 1950 made access to that permission easier for nuns (in the strict sense), though not for religious institutes dedicated to apostolic activity. Many of these institutes of women then petitioned for the solemn vow of poverty alone. Towards the end of the Second Vatican Council, superiors general of clerical institutes and abbots president of monastic congregations were authorized to permit, for a just cause, their subjects of simple vows who made a reasonable request to renounce their property except for what would be required for their sustenance if they were to depart.\n\nThe 1983 Code of Canon Law maintains the distinction between solemn and simple vows, but no longer makes any distinction between their juridical effects. For instance, while under the 1917 Code solemn vows rendered a subsequent marriage invalid, but simple vows only made the marriage illicit, the current Code of Canon Law states that \"those bound by a public perpetual vow of chastity in a religious institute invalidly attempt marriage\".\n\nRenunciation of the right to own property is now a matter for the constitutions of the religious institute in question and is associated not with the solemnity of the vows but with their perpetuity. The 1983 Code states:\n"}
{"id": "14625830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14625830", "title": "Tax attribute", "text": "Tax attribute\n\nThe United States Internal Revenue Code contains a limited number of specific statutory provisions excluding from income economic benefits that would otherwise constitute gross income under the Code. IRC § 108 constitutes one such exclusion. Section 108 excludes discharge of indebtedness from gross income under certain specified conditions, such as when the discharge occurs in bankruptcy or when the taxpayer is insolvent. Under ordinary taxation principles, discharge of debt would clearly fall within the broad definition of gross income provided by the Code. Section 108 thus provides a measure of relief for certain taxpayers who find themselves facing serious financial difficulties.\n\nUnfortunately for financially troubled taxpayers, exclusion under § 108 comes at a cost. Under § 108(b)(1), \"the amount excluded from gross income under … subsection (a)(1) shall be applied to reduce the tax attributes of the taxpayer\". Thus, excluding income under § 108 requires a taxpayer to postpone his or her tax liability by decreasing dollar-for-dollar certain \"tax attributes\" that would otherwise be available to offset future income. \"Id.\" § (b)(3)(A).\n\nSection 108(b)(2) provides the general rule that taxpayers must reduce seven specified tax attributes in the following order. These attributes are:\n\n\nShould a taxpayer decide that he or she would be better situated preserving loss carryovers until the next taxable year, however, he or she may elect to apply any or all of the excluded income to reduce basis in property before reducing another attribute. To the extent that a taxpayer applies excluded income for purposes other than basis reduction under the election, the taxpayer must follow the prescribed order. Regardless of whether a taxpayer makes an election, any reductions in basis are governed by § 1017.\n"}
{"id": "9500362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9500362", "title": "The Dalmarnock fire tests", "text": "The Dalmarnock fire tests\n\nThe Dalmarnock fire tests are a series of fire experiments that were conducted in a real high-rise building in the United Kingdom.\n\nIn 2006, the BRE Centre for Fire Safety Engineering at the University of Edinburgh, conducted this series of large-scale fire tests in a high-rise building in collaboration with the BBC series \"Horizon\", EPSRC, Glasgow Housing Association, Strathclyde Fire Brigade, Glasgow Caledonian University, Lion TV, Arup, BRE, Xtralis and Powerwall Systems Ltd, among other contributors.\n\nThe building, a 23-storey reinforced-concrete tower located at 4 Millerfield Place in Dalmarnock, Glasgow, was scheduled for demolition and hence was evacuated of tenants. Three main experiments were conducted over two days, from 25 to 26 July 2006. Tests One and Two took place in identical flats, the main compartment of which had been fitted with regular living room and office furniture, arranged to provide conditions that favour repeatability. Test Three was a smaller smoke management experiment held in one of the two main emergency exit stairwells.\n\nTests One and Two were fully instrumented with a high sensor density, including measurements of temperature, incident heat, gas velocities, smoke obscuration, wall temperature and structure deflection, among others. The tests varied in that Test One allowed the fire to develop freely to post-flashover conditions, while Test Two incorporated sensor-informed ventilation management and was extinguished before post-flashover conditions were attained. Both tests had approximately 300 sensors monitoring several different characteristics of the fire environment, but Test One had about 160 additional sensors monitoring the structural response.\n\nThese experiments endeavoured to establish a highly monitored fire in a realistic residential scenario, allowing for several different modern fire safety engineering tools to be tested. The comprehensive set of data collected is being used for validation of different mathematical models of fire dynamics. Because the data has a spatial resolution high enough to be comparable to typical resolutions of CFD fire models, the tests are specially well suited for validation of this type of models. The tests also form an integral part of the research conducted for the FireGrid research project, that is, the development of emergency control systems that use continuous sensor data and computer modelling, to provide forecast of the fire evolution and aid the efficient deployment of resources.\n\nAnalysis of the copious amounts of test data collected will take several years to complete. Nevertheless, there has been significant dissemination activities of the findings to date in the form of several related journal and conference papers; a one-day seminar introducing the tests and highlighting the analysis and conclusions to date (held in Edinburgh, November 2007); and a book detailing the tests and analysis completed to date was published in November 2007. The book, entitled \"The Dalmarnock Fire Tests: Experiments and Modelling\", comprises material covering characterisation and comparison of both the Test One and Test Two fires; experimental error analysis; evaluation of the fire detection systems; calculation of heat transfer to the structure; analysis of the structural behaviour; evaluation of ceiling fibre reinforced polymer (FRP) performance; and comparison of both a priori and a posteriori computational fire, modelling against experimental data allowing for an evaluation of such the current use of tools.\n\nThe overall aim of the Dalmarnock fire tests is to improve understanding of how building fire emergencies can be handled in the most effective manner, while providing further insights into the fundamentals of compartment fire dynamics and fire-induced structural behaviour.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36814988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36814988", "title": "The Laws of Australia – Encyclopedia", "text": "The Laws of Australia – Encyclopedia\n\nThe Laws of Australia – Encyclopedia is an encyclopaedia of the laws of Australia. Published by Lawbook Co. (Westlaw), it is one of the two foremost legal encyclopaedias in Australia, the other being \"Halsbury's Laws of Australia\" by LexisNexis.\n\n\"The Laws of Australia\", like other legal encyclopaedias, provides a summary on the current state of laws of Australia. Subjects are arranged systematically with case and statute law authorities which support legal propositions. \n"}
{"id": "2223277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2223277", "title": "Trespass to land", "text": "Trespass to land\n\n\"Trespass to land\" is a common law tort or crime that is committed when an individual or the object of an individual intentionally (or, in Australia, negligently) enters the land of another without a lawful excuse. Trespass to land is \"actionable per se\". Thus, the party whose land is entered upon may sue even if no actual harm is done. In some jurisdictions, this rule may also apply to entry upon public land having restricted access. A court may order payment of damages or an injunction to remedy the tort.\n\nBy law, trespass for mesne profits is a suit against someone who has been ejected from property that did not belong to them. The suit is for recovery of damages the trespasser caused to the property and for any profits he or she may have made while in possession of that property.\n\nFor a trespass to be actionable, the tortfeasor must voluntarily go to a specific location, but need not be aware that he entered the property of a particular person. If A forces B unwillingly onto C's land, C will not have action in trespass against B, because B's actions were involuntary. C may instead claim against A. Furthermore, if B is deceived by A as to the ownership or boundaries of C's land, A may be jointly liable with B for B's trespass.\n\nIn most jurisdictions, if a person were to accidentally enter onto private property, there would be no trespass, because the person did not intend any violation. However, in Australia, negligence may substitute the requirement for intent.\n\nIf a trespass is actionable and no action is taken within reasonable or prescribed time limits, the land owner may forever lose the right to seek a remedy, and may even forfeit certain property rights. \"See Adverse possession\" and Easement by prescription.\n\nTrespass may also arise upon the easement of one person upon the land of another. For example, if A grants B a right to pass freely across A's land, then A would trespass upon B's easement by erecting a locked gate or otherwise blocking B's rightful access.\n\nIn some jurisdictions trespass while in possession of a firearm, which may include a low-power air weapon without ammunition, constitutes a more grave crime of armed trespass.\n\nThe maxim \"cuius est solum, eius est usque ad coelum et ad infernos\" (whoever owns the land owns it all the way to the heavens and to hell) is said to apply, however that has been limited by practical considerations. For example, aerial trespass is limited to airspace which might be used (therefore aeroplanes cannot be sued). Landowners may not put up structures to prevent this. The courts have been more lenient with underground trespass. The Kentucky Court of Appeal in Edwards v Sims (1929) 24 SW 2d 619 seems to affirm the maxim without qualification, whereas the New South Wales Supreme Court in Australia seemed more reluctant to do so in Di Napoli v New Beach Apartments (2004) Aust Torts Reports 81-728. There is therefore an asymmetry between aerial and underground trespass, which may be resolved by the fact the ground is almost always used (to support buildings and other structures) whereas airspace loses its practical use above the height of skyscrapers.\n\nThere may be regulations that hold a trespasser to a higher duty of care, such as strict liability for timber trespass (removing trees beyond a permitted boundary), which is a type of trespass to chattels as a result of a trespass to land.\n\nSome cases also provide remedies for trespass not amounting to personal presence, as where an object is intentionally deposited, or farm animals are permitted to wander upon the land of another. Furthermore, if a new use of nearby land interferes with a land owner's quiet enjoyment of his rights, there may be an action for nuisance, as where a disagreeable aroma or noise from A drifts across the land of B.\n\nTrespass ab initio is when a person is granted access to land but then abuses that access. The entry to the land is considered to have been a trespass from the beginning. This only applies to access given by law, not to access given by a person (as established by the Six Carpenters' Case).\n\nIn English law, trespass to land involves the \"unjustifiable interference with land which is in the immediate and exclusive possession of another\". Land is defined as the surface, subsoil, airspace and anything permanently attached to the land, such as houses. It is not necessary to prove that harm was suffered to bring a claim, and is instead actionable \"per se\". While most trespasses to land are intentional, it can also be committed negligently. Accidental trespass also incurs liability, with an exception for entering land adjoining a road unintentionally (such as in a car accident). Although previously a pure tort, the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994 created some circumstances in which trespass to land can also be a crime.\n\nTrespass is an offence under Scots Law; however, the legislation was amended under the Land Reform (Scotland) Act 2003 which established universal access rights to most land and inland water. These reforms do not apply (hence trespass remains an offence) to:\n\nIn most states, a criminal trespass to land is defined by statute and constitutes a misdemeanor. In some states, it may be a felony under certain circumstances (e.g., trespassing on a research facility or school property). Remedies between private parties for trespass may include an injunction or money damages.\n\n"}
