{"id": "1962178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1962178", "title": "Acrotomophilia", "text": "Acrotomophilia\n\nAcrotomophilia (from the Greek ἀκρότομος \"having the top cut off\" (from ἄκρον \"akron\" \"extremity\" and -τομος \"-tomos\" from τέμνω \"temno\" \"I cut\") and φιλία \"philia\" \"love\") is a paraphilia in which an individual expresses strong sexual interest in amputees. It is a counterpart to \"apotemnophilia\", the sexual interest in \"being\" an amputee.\n\nAcrotomophiles may be attracted to amputees because they like the way they look or they may view the amputee’s stump as a phallic object which can be used for sexual pleasure. Acrotomophiles may enjoy the idea of dominating the amputee during couples play and they may also become aroused with the thought of having to take care of an amputee.\n\nIn a survey of acrotomophiles, leg amputations were preferred over arm amputations, amputations of a single limb over double amputations, and amputations that left a stump over amputations that left no stump. According to Solvang (2007), “Devotees adhere to standard conceptions of attractiveness in all other matters outside of amputations.” A Jungian explanation for the fetish is that it stems from a desire to resolve discontinuities in the collective subconscious by means of distorting the geometric representation of man, which traditionally involves five points, six when focusing on male sexuality, and seven when discussing incarnations of the Logos from certain religious cultures.\n\nSome people question whether amputating one's own body parts or operating on a partner for the sake of sexual pleasure is ethical. For some, modifying the body is a private ritual of self-ownership and freedom of choice. Psychiatrists may make a diagnosis of Body integrity identity disorder (B.I.I.D.).\n\nThe term \"amelotatism\" has also been used to describe acrotomophilia. The sexual interest in \"being\" an amputee is \"apotemnophilia\". John Money (1977) used the terms \"autoapotemnophilia\" and \"alloapotemnophilia\" to describe the erotic interest of wanting to be or appear as an amputee versus wanting amputees as sexual partners; neither term has been widely used since. The term \"teratophilia\" is used to describe arousal from deformed or monstrous people.\n\n"}
{"id": "8354624", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8354624", "title": "Activism at Ohio Wesleyan University", "text": "Activism at Ohio Wesleyan University\n\nActivism has played an important role in the history of Ohio Wesleyan University; The founders of Ohio Wesleyan University expressed a hope that the university \"is forever to be conducted on the most liberal principles.\" OWU has espoused activism in its academic philosophy. Alumni of the school have prominently engaged in controversial issues of their times on three central issues—the scope of justice; distributive justice based on race, gender, and income; and institutions related to preserving social structures.\n\nOn August 5, 1846, the university's first president, Edward Thomson, delivered his inaugural address. He maintained that the college was a product of the liberality of the people of Delaware, and it was fortunate that Ohio Wesleyan was founded in a community divided in religious and political opinions; Thomson believed that the friction of a mixed society prevented dogmatism and developed energy. The spirit of the college, he said, is the spirit of liberty.\n\nThomson stated in the early days of Wesleyan that a college education should be a barrier to avarice by furnishing \"the understanding, the taste, and the perspective that directs us to life's higher purposes ... It would serve political tranquillity, both by accrediting the truly apt candidates for office and by creating citizenry astutely able to assert its liberty against any government's tendency to encroach\".\n\nThomson was frequently vocal in the national political debates of his time, notably slavery and the expansion of the United States. In 1857 he denounced the argument that southern Christians \nThe Underground Railroad, used as a \"transportation system\" for anti-slavery activists to free black slaves fleeing from the South to Canada, was extensively utilized in Ohio. In the 19th century, Ohio had one of the most active Underground Railroad operations in the nation. One of the state's most frequently used corridors on the Underground Railroad passed through Delaware County near Ohio Wesleyan University, now marked along the bikeway trail at U.S. Routes 23 and 36 in the city of Delaware.\n\nElizabeth Boynton Harbert (class of 1864), a women's suffrage activist, published several books on women's issues and suffrage, \"Out of Her Sphere\" and \"The Woman's Kingdom\", and was the chief editor of a women's suffrage newspaper, \"The New Era\", in 1885 Despite women's suffrage being a controversial issue, Harbert became an associate president of the World's Unity League, vice-president of the Woman's Civic League of Pasadena, vice-president of the Southern California Woman's Press Association, and president of the National Household Economic Association.\n\nBranch Rickey, a 1903 graduate of Ohio Wesleyan, is regarded as a significant figure in the history of professional baseball for breaking the sport's racial barrier. An racial incident early in Rickey's life when he was as a baseball coach for Ohio Wesleyan in 1910 would play an important role in his decision thirty years later. Rickey's team visited a hotel in South Bend, Indiana, where the hotel manager refused to provide a room for Rickey's black baseball player Charley Thomas. Rickey eventually convinced the manager to allow him to share his own room with Thomas. Rickey recalled Thomas rubbing at his hands, ashamed of the color of his skin and vowed, \"Charley, the day will come when they won't have to be white.\" In 1943 Rickey became president and general manager of the Brooklyn Dodgers. Beginning with the 1946 signing of African American player Jackie Robinson for the Dodgers, Rickey became renowned for his role in the racial integration of the game. Rickey's feelings on integration were a primary motivating factor in his decision.\n\nIn the war years of 1917–1919, the break between the United States and Germany struck a military tone on campus. Individual students were volunteering in the Marines, in the Canadian Forces, and other forms of service. As America entered World War I the U.S. War Department inaugurated the Students' Army Training Corps, a program designed to use existing colleges and universities as training facilities for new military personnel. On the morning of October 1, 1918, about 150,000 college boys on US campuses transformed into student soldiers. This was the induction into the Students' Army Training Corps. In Delaware, on campus, approximately 400 students were given the oath of allegiance. The men received the regular army training and academic instruction prescribed by the Committee on Education and Special Training of the War Department. The mode of student activities changed: campus traditions were put aside, and athletic events were cancelled throughout the fall semester of 1918.\n\nIn 1966, students established an Upward Bound program, funded by the Economic Opportunity Act of 1964, to help prepare students from lower-income and poverty areas for college. The Arts Castle, the Early Childhood Center, the Big Pal/Little Pal Program, the Andrews House, the Office of Community Service, and the International Ambassador High School Program are among the many programs founded since the 1970s to provide services to the larger community in Delaware.\n\nElden Smith, Wesleyan's 11th president, appointed a commission in 1968 to study student life and to refine and further edit Wesleyan's previously too-broad Statement of Aims. The commission's report recommended four criteria that OWU's educators should foster: perception, critical judgement, enjoyment, and active responsibility for the problems of society. On \"active responsibility for the problems of society\", the report stated, \"A socially concerned individual who had no capacity for enjoyment, who exercised glib and trite rather than critical judgement, and who had no perception of reality, would be a public menace. Perhaps this is the meaning of 'do-gooder'. On the other hand, the absence of active responsibility for social problems might degenerate into obsession with self, and that perception might become dilettantism.\"\n\nIn 1969, the Commission on Student Life drafted a new form of student life. It formed the Wesleyan Council of Student Affairs (WCSA) with the right to decide basic policies on matters related to student life. The group was controversial from the start: more than two hundred students held a sit-in at the student union to gain faculty approval for issues-oriented representation. WCSA became involved in the first major controversy on the Wesleyan campus in the 1960s: its representatives called for the elimination of academic credit and existence for ROTC and demanded access to the University's budget and general financial statements.\n\nThe escalation of the Vietnam War in the early 1960s had a significant impact on Ohio Wesleyan students. A small minority had been concerned with the war for several years, but the bombing of North Vietnam and the Gulf of Tonkin Resolution in August 1964 raised campus-wide awareness almost overnight. The Vietnam War, so distant, became a huge presence on campus, affected ideas of community, student power, and free speech, and influenced daily decisions like class choices and social interactions. The first stirrings of protest against the war occurred in late 1964. In December, the Wesleyan Council of Student Affairs voted to send a letter to President Lyndon B. Johnson opposing the expansion of the war and advocating withdrawal. Opposing expansion was a fairly moderate position, but calling for withdrawal was much more radical.\n\nWesleyan was the first college campus in the country to demonstrate against President Richard Nixon's decision to invade Cambodia on April 30, 1970. Following the demonstration, two hundred students occupied the Air Force ROTC building on campus to protest both the war and the awarding of academic credit for ROTC participation. The ROTC was seen as an extension of the \"Pentagon's war machine.\"\n\nPresident Wenzlau, then the president of OWU, attempted to disperse the protesters but was shouted down. The students demanded that the school hold a campus referendum on the issue of ROTC campus disbandment and that the vote be binding on university policy.\n\nWenzlau called for an emergency faculty meeting on May 1, 1970. The faculty body, surrounded by more than 300 students, decided to hold a faculty meeting later in the month when the entire faculty body would be present. The faculty meeting authorized sending a telegram to Nixon demanding an immediate unilateral cease-fire for all US troops in Cambodia, Laos, and Vietnam.\n\nThe student referendum was held on May 22, 1970. The student body was split on the issue of ROTC, while 67 percent voted to censure the Vietnam War.\n\nOWU students continued to demand more say in university affairs, in addition to making a strong stand on national issues. The Wesleyan Council for Student Affairs and the administration battled over appropriate wording for alcohol and visitation policies. Several hundred students staged a \"drink-in\" at the MUB (the student union) in 1971. In the spring of 1971, students set up a tent community called \"The People's Park\" in front of Sturges Hall to protest housing policies. Students became involved in decisions on several faculty tenure denials, the academic schedule, and plans for a new gymnasium. Starting in 1970, the Board of Trustees approved a student seat on its board, which was to be filled every three years.\n\nMary King, class of 1963, worked alongside the Reverend Dr. Martin Luther King, Jr. in the U.S. civil rights movement when she was a young student, and was a member of the staff of the Student Nonviolent Coordinating Committee (SNCC).\n\nReverend Martin Luther King frequently spoke in the U.S. against the South African government in the 1960s, urging Americans to end trade and investments in that country. Following political activity by South Africa's blacks in 1985, the government declared a state of emergency.\n\nThe resurgence of campus activism regarding racism existing elsewhere in the world came in response to David Warren's, the 13th president, involvement in the issue. In his inauguration Warren stated: \"If there is one phrase which I believe best characterizes our Wesleyan education, it is: 'Here I stand.' Within these three words of Martin Luther—'Here I stand'—is compressed the whole of our historical endeavor...\"\n\nIn the 1980s the most organized campus movement was against investments in companies doing business in South Africa. By February 1987, student political action had brought Ohio Wesleyan to pledge to fully divest any holdings connected to South Africa. The OWU Committee on Divestment was organized in 1988 and funded many activities related to its cause. It sponsored an Anti-Apartheid Week, candlelight vigils, and protest marches. One event which drew a lot of media attention was the 1988 demonstration before the Board of Trustees. Students carried a black and white paper chain as they climbed up the student union ballroom. As their leader announced \"Divest!\", students broke the symbolic paper chain.\n\nRecent years have witnessed activism by student groups on the issues of the Iraq War, race, globalization, and women's reproductive rights.\n\nIn April 2002 about a hundred Wesleyan students gathered on The Mall in Washington, D.C. during a weekend of protests for an array of causes, including the Middle East crisis, and also to denounce lending policies of the World Bank. In February 2003 approximately 100 OWU students travelled to New York City to protest US actions in Iraq, with partial funding from the Wesleyan Chaplain's office.\n\nDuring \"Ohio Wesleyan University Against the War\" on October 5 and November 17, 2004, more than one hundred students held peace rallies in front of Delaware's City Hall.\nOn March 17, 2005, the Student Union on Black Awareness (SUBA) and the College Democrats organized a protest on Sandusky Street in Delaware against racial injustice on campus and in the country. University president Mark Huddleston also participated in the protest. During his own college years, President Huddleston had mediated between protesters and administration, favoring classic liberal education over brick-throwers.\n\nAcademic pursuit and activism have found an intersection in the form of an annual event called The \"Sagan National Colloquium\". Established in 1984, the SNC annually spotlights an issue of concern in the liberal arts — the impact of science on society, race and reality, censorship and power, and the role of globalization.\n\n"}
{"id": "30749442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30749442", "title": "Afro-Surinamese", "text": "Afro-Surinamese\n\nAfro-Surinamese people are the inhabitants of Suriname of Sub-Saharan African ancestry. They are descended from slaves brought to work on sugar plantations. Many of them escaped the plantations and formed independent settlements together, becoming known as Maroons. They maintained vestiges of African culture and language. \n\nMost of the slaves imported to Suriname came from Central Africa (more than 66,900 slaves, 31.6% of the total number), Ghana (more than 53,000, 25% of the total) and Bight of Benin (more than 34,700, 16.4% of the total). Thousands of slaves also arrived from Senegambia (more than 1,300, 0.7% of the total) and the current Sierra Leone (more than 1,400, 0.7% of the total), Windward Coast (more than 7,520, 3.6% of the total) and Bight of Biafra (more than 4,300, 2.1% of the total).\n\nThe Akans from the central Ghana were, officially, the predominant slave group in Suriname. However, in practice, slaves from Loango, purchased in Cabinda, Angola, were the largest group of slaves in Suriname since 1670; they surpassed the number on the Gold Coast in almost all periods. Enslaved people including the Ewe (who live in southern Ghana, Togo and Benin), Yoruba (from Benin) and Kongo (who live in the Republic of Congo, Democratic Republic of Congo and Angola), all left their cultural footprints in Suriname.\n\nThe Dutch were involved in the slave trade during the early colonial years. They sought office space for their plantations. The space they received was when the British in the Treaty of Breda (1667) gave land on the northern coast of South America, ceded to them in exchange for New York. Suriname became a slave colony. Slaves were rapidly shipped from Africa to Suriname to work on coffee and sugar plantations for the Dutch and other Europeans.\n\nOver time, the slaves got used to their new environment and they created space for their African religion with many 'wintis', spirits. Some slaves asked their spirits for help with fleeing from the plantation.\n\nThus, every Saturday night under the watchful eye of the plantation owners and black overseers, dance parties were held until late into the night, to the great amusement of the slaveowners.\n\nAfro-Surinamese scholar Gloria Wekker argues, for example, that working-class Afro-Surinamese women retained pre-colonial African cultural understandings of gender, sexuality, and spirituality. She, and other theorists, argue that African cultural retentions are found most often in Afro-diasporic communities that either had irregular contact with dominant groups of the host community or that shielded their cultural retentions from their colonizers. As Wekker observes, Surinamese slaves socialized, communicated, and communed with little white cultural, social, or linguistic interference.\n\nEscaped slaves in French Guiana and Suriname fled to the interior and joined with indigenous peoples to create several independent tribes, among them the Saramaka, the Paramaka, the Ndyuka (Aukan), the Kwinti, the Aluku (Boni), and the Matawai. Because of their long isolation in interior Rain Forests, they maintained more African culture than did ethnic Africans in the cities. From 1972 to 1978, two American professors, S. Allen Counter and David L. Evans, made seven voyages upriver into the maroon areas. Both African Americans, they wanted to contact these communities and learn about the peoples, to see what African cultures they followed.\n\nBy the 1990s, the maroons in Suriname had begun to fight for their land rights to protect territory which they had long occupied. They won an important case in 2007 at the Inter-American Court of Human Rights, which ruled they had rights to their traditional lands.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "862311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=862311", "title": "Age of majority", "text": "Age of majority\n\nThe age of majority is the threshold of adulthood as recognized or declared in law. It is the moment when minors cease to be considered such and assume legal control over their persons, actions, and decisions, thus terminating the control and legal responsibilities of their parents or guardian over them. Most countries set the age of majority at 18. The word \"majority\" here refers to having greater years and being of full age as opposed to \"minority\", the state of being a minor. The law in a given jurisdiction may not actually use the term \"age of majority\". The term typically refers to a collection of laws bestowing the status of adulthood. The age of majority does not necessarily correspond to the mental or physical maturity of an individual.\n\nAge of majority should not be confused with the age of maturity, age of sexual consent, marriageable age, school-leaving age, drinking age, driving age, voting age, smoking age, gambling age, etc., which each may be independent of and set at a different age from the age of majority.\n\nAlthough a person may attain the age of majority in a particular jurisdiction, they may still be subject to age-based restrictions regarding matters such as the right to vote or stand for elective office, act as a judge, and many others.\n\nAge of majority can be confused with the similar concept of the age of license, which also pertains to the threshold of adulthood but in a much broader and more abstract way. As a legal term of art, \"license\" means \"permission\", and it can implicate a legally enforceable right or privilege. Thus, an age of license is an age at which one has legal permission from government to do something. The age of majority, on the other hand, is legal \"recognition\" that one has grown into an adult.\n\nAge of majority pertains solely to the acquisition of the legal control over one's person, decisions and actions, and the correlative termination of the legal authority of the parents (or guardian(s), in lieu of parent(s)) over the child’s person and affairs generally.\n\nMany ages of license are correlated to the age of majority, but they are nonetheless legally distinct concepts. One need not have attained the age of majority to have permission to exercise certain rights and responsibilities. Some ages of license are actually higher than the age of majority. For example, to purchase alcoholic beverages, the age of license is 21 in all U.S. states. Another example is the voting age, which prior to the 1970s was 21 in the US, as was the age of majority in all or most states. In the Republic of Ireland the age of majority is 18, but one must be over 21 years of age to stand for election to the Houses of the Oireachtas. Also, in Portugal the age of majority is 18, but one must be at least 25 years of age to run for public office. A child who is legally emancipated by a court of competent jurisdiction automatically attains to their maturity upon the signing of the court order. Only emancipation confers the status of maturity before a person has actually reached the age of majority.\n\nIn almost all places, minors who are married are automatically emancipated. Some places also do the same for minors who are in the armed forces or who have a certain degree or diploma.\n\nIn many countries minors can be emancipated: depending on jurisdiction, this may happen through acts such as marriage, attaining economic self-sufficiency, obtaining an educational degree or diploma, or participating in a form of military service. In the United States, all states have some form of emancipation of minors.\n\nThe following list the age of majority in countries (or administrative divisions) in the order of lowest to highest:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nReligions have their own rules as to the age of maturity, when a child is regarded to be an adult, at least for ritual purposes:\n"}
{"id": "50024908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50024908", "title": "Akbuzat", "text": "Akbuzat\n\nAkbuzat (, from Ak is \"white\" + Turkic буҙат \"Curly Horse\") is the most famous \"kubair\" (epic poem) of the Bashkirs. It is analog many similar epics (the Pegasus).\n\nThe main hero of Akbuzat epic poem is Hauban. He went to the Underwater kingdom for search the сurly horse Akbuzat and diamond sword.\n"}
{"id": "47242936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47242936", "title": "And Hope to Die", "text": "And Hope to Die\n\nAnd Hope to Die (, ) is a 1972 French-Italian thriller-drama film directed by René Clément and starring Jean-Louis Trintignant and Robert Ryan. It is loosely based on the novel \"Black Friday\" by David Goodis.\n\nA French fugitive heads for Montreal, Canada where he joins a gang of criminals who are about to kidnap a crimelord's mentally challenged daughter. The scheme goes as planned until the girl accidentally dies. The kidnappers decide to move forward with the plan as if she were still alive. \n\n"}
{"id": "1289723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1289723", "title": "Antisexualism", "text": "Antisexualism\n\nAntisexualism is opposition or hostility towards sexual behavior and sexuality.\n\nOther terms whose meanings overlap or are synonymous or interchangeable with antisexualism include \"sex-negativism\", \"sex-negative movement\", \"sex-negativity\", \"antisexuality\", \"demonization of sex\" or as an adjective, \"anti-sex\" or \"sex-negative\". In a broader scope, it may refer to a general opposition to sexuality, especially tending to reduce or eliminate the sex drive or sexual activity or a prudish and coitophobic force in society that suppress sexual freedom and disseminate antisexual opinions. When such an aversion involves hatred it is sometimes termed miserotia or miserotism.\n\nSome forms of early ascetic Gnosticism held all matter to be evil, and that unnecessary gratifications of the physical senses were to be avoided. Married couples were encouraged to be chaste. The Skoptsys were a radical sect of the Russian Orthodox Church that practiced castration and amputation of sexual organs. The Skoptsy believed that Christ had been castrated during his crucifixion, and it was this castration that brought about salvation. Boston Corbett, who was involved in killing John Wilkes Booth, castrated himself after being mocked and tempted by prostitutes. Ann Lee was the founder of the Shakers, a radical Protestant sect that opposed procreation and all sexual activity. The Shakers were more opposed to pregnancy than anything else. Father Divine, founder of the International Peace Mission Movement, advocated religious abstinence from sex and marriage and taught that sexual objectification is a root cause of undesirable social and political conditions.\n\nJohn Harvey Kellogg, the inventor of the \"corn flakes\" variety of breakfast cereal, was opposed to all forms of sexual activity, especially masturbation. \"The Road to Wellville\" satirized his life and practices. According to some sources, the early Christian theologian Origen castrated himself to avoid temptation and remain pure.\n\nThe most popular venue of antisexuals is the Antisex.info (Antisexual Stronghold) website founded by Yuri Nesterenko. He has been widely recognized as the leading antisexual activist since he launched a FidoNet-based antisexual community in 1995. The community claims to have created the International Antisexual Movement (IAM). While putting forward the slogan \"Say No to sex\", the spokesmen of the IAM endeavor for people to understand that no sexual urges are so violent that they may not be deterred through mental reason, or else transformed through abstinence. Some members of the IAM say they have successfully overcome the desire for sex.\n\n"}
{"id": "2007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2007", "title": "Archery", "text": "Archery\n\nArchery is the art, sport, practice or skill of using a bow to shoot arrows. The word comes from the Latin \"arcus\". Historically, archery has been used for hunting and combat. In modern times, it is mainly a competitive sport and recreational activity. A person who participates in archery is typically called an archer or a \"bowman\", and a person who is fond of or an expert at archery is sometimes called a toxophilite.\n\nThe bow and arrow seems to have been invented in the later Paleolithic or early Mesolithic periods. The oldest signs of its use in Europe come from the in the north of Hamburg, Germany and dates from the late Paleolithic, about 10,000–9000 BC. The arrows were made of pine and consisted of a main shaft and a long fore shaft with a flint point. There are no definite earlier bows; previous pointed shafts are known, but may have been launched by spear-throwers rather than bows. The oldest bows known so far comes from the Holmegård swamp in Denmark. Bows eventually replaced the spear-thrower as the predominant means for launching shafted projectiles, on every continent except Australasia, though spear-throwers persisted alongside the bow in parts of the Americas, notably Mexico and among the Inuit.\n\nBows and arrows have been present in Egyptian & neighboring Nubian culture since its respective predynastic & Pre-Kerma origins. In the Levant, artifacts that could be arrow-shaft straighteners are known from the Natufian culture, (c. 10,800–8,300 BC) onwards. The Khiamian and PPN A shouldered Khiam-points may well be arrowheads.\n\nClassical civilizations, notably the Assyrians, Greeks, Armenians, Persians, Parthians, Indians, Koreans, Chinese, and Japanese fielded large numbers of archers in their armies. Akkadians were the first to use composite bows in war according to the victory stele of Naram-Sin of Akkad. Egyptians referred to Nubia as \"Ta-Seti,\" or \"The Land of the Bow,\" since the Nubians were known to be expert archers, and by the 16th Century BC Egyptians were using the composite bow in warfare . While the Bronze Age Aegean Cultures were able to deploy a number of state-owned specialized bow makers for warfare and hunting purposes already from the 15th century BC. The Welsh longbow proved its worth for the first time in Continental warfare at the Battle of Crécy. In the Americas archery was widespread at European contact.\n\nArchery was highly developed in Asia. The Sanskrit term for archery, dhanurveda, came to refer to martial arts in general. In East Asia, Goguryeo, one of the Three Kingdoms of Korea was well known for its regiments of exceptionally skilled archers.\n\nCentral Asian tribesmen (after the domestication of the horse) and American Plains Indians (after gaining access to horses) became extremely adept at archery on horseback. Lightly armoured, but highly mobile archers were excellently suited to warfare in the Central Asian steppes, and they formed a large part of armies that repeatedly conquered large areas of Eurasia. Shorter bows are more suited to use on horseback, and the composite bow enabled mounted archers to use powerful weapons. Empires throughout the Eurasian landmass often strongly associated their respective \"barbarian\" counterparts with the usage of the bow and arrow, to the point where powerful states like the Han Dynasty referred to their neighbours, the Xiong-nu, as \"Those Who Draw the Bow\". For example, Xiong-nu mounted bowmen made them more than a match for the Han military, and their threat was at least partially responsible for Chinese expansion into the Ordos region, to create a stronger, more powerful buffer zone against them. It is possible that \"barbarian\" peoples were responsible for introducing archery or certain types of bows to their \"civilized\" counterparts—the Xiong-nu and the Han being one example. Similarly, short bows seem to have been introduced to Japan by northeast Asian groups.\n\nThe development of firearms rendered bows obsolete in warfare, although efforts were sometimes made to preserve archery practice. In England and Wales, for example, the government tried to enforce practice with the longbow until the end of the 16th century. This was because it was recognised that the bow had been instrumental to military success during the Hundred Years' War. Despite the high social status, ongoing utility, and widespread pleasure of archery in Armenia, China, Egypt, England and Wales, America, India, Japan, Korea, Turkey and elsewhere, almost every culture that gained access to even early firearms used them widely, to the neglect of archery. Early firearms were inferior in rate-of-fire, and were very sensitive to wet weather. However, they had longer effective range and were tactically superior in the common situation of soldiers shooting at each other from behind obstructions. They also required significantly less training to use properly, in particular penetrating steel armour without any need to develop special musculature. Armies equipped with guns could thus provide superior firepower, and highly trained archers became obsolete on the battlefield. However, the bow and arrow is still an effective weapon, and archers have seen action in the 21st century. Traditional archery remains in use for sport, and for hunting in many areas.\n\nEarly recreational archery societies included the Finsbury Archers and the Ancient Society of Kilwinning Archers. The latter's annual Papingo event was first recorded in 1483. (In this event, archers shoot vertically from the base of an abbey tower to dislodge a wood pigeon placed approximately 30 meters above.) The Royal Company of Archers was formed in 1676 and is one of the oldest sporting bodies in the world. Archery remained a small and scattered pastime, however, until the late 18th century when it experienced a fashionable revival among the aristocracy. Sir Ashton Lever, an antiquarian and collector, formed the Toxophilite Society in London in 1781, with the patronage of George, the Prince of Wales.\n\nArchery societies were set up across the country, each with its own strict entry criteria and outlandish costumes. Recreational archery soon became extravagant social and ceremonial events for the nobility, complete with flags, music and 21 gun salutes for the competitors. The clubs were \"the drawing rooms of the great country houses placed outside\" and thus came to play an important role in the social networks of the local upper class. As well as its emphasis on display and status, the sport was notable for its popularity with females. Young women could not only compete in the contests but retain and show off their sexuality while doing so. Thus, archery came to act as a forum for introductions, flirtation and romance. It was often consciously styled in the manner of a Medieval tournament with titles and laurel wreaths being presented as a reward to the victor. General meetings were held from 1789, in which local lodges convened together to standardise the rules and ceremonies. Archery was also co-opted as a distinctively British tradition, dating back to the lore of Robin Hood and it served as a patriotic form of entertainment at a time of political tension in Europe. The societies were also elitist, and the new middle class bourgeoisie were excluded from the clubs due to their lack of social status.\n\nAfter the Napoleonic Wars, the sport became increasingly popular among all classes, and it was framed as a nostalgic reimagining of the preindustrial rural Britain. Particularly influential was Sir Walter Scott's 1819 novel, \"Ivanhoe\" that depicted the heroic character Lockseley winning an archery tournament.\n\nThe 1840s saw the second attempts at turning the recreation into a modern sport. The first Grand National Archery Society meeting was held in York in 1844 and over the next decade the extravagant and festive practices of the past were gradually whittled away and the rules were standardized as the 'York Round' - a series of shoots at 60, 80, and 100 yards. Horace A. Ford helped to improve archery standards and pioneered new archery techniques. He won the Grand National 11 times in a row and published a highly influential guide to the sport in 1856.\nTowards the end of the 19th century, the sport experienced declining participation as alternative sports such as croquet and tennis became more popular among the middle class. By 1889, just 50 archery clubs were left in Britain, but it was still included as a sport at the 1900 Paris Olympics.\n\nIn the United States, primitive archery was revived in the early 20th century. The last of the Yahi Indian tribe, a native known as Ishi, came out of hiding in California in 1911. His doctor, Saxton Pope, learned many of Ishi's traditional archery skills, and popularized them. \n\nFrom the 1920s, professional engineers took an interest in archery, previously the exclusive field of traditional craft experts. They led the commercial development of new forms of bow including the modern recurve and compound bow. These modern forms are now dominant in modern Western archery; traditional bows are in a minority. In the 1980s, the skills of traditional archery were revived by American enthusiasts, and combined with the new scientific understanding. Much of this expertise is available in the \"Traditional Bowyer's Bibles\" (see Further reading). Modern game archery owes much of its success to Fred Bear, an American bow hunter and bow manufacturer.\n\nDeities and heroes in several mythologies are described as archers, including the Greek Artemis and Apollo, the Roman Diana and Cupid, the Germanic Agilaz, continuing in legends like those of Wilhelm Tell, Palnetoke, or Robin Hood. Armenian Hayk and Babylonian Marduk, Indian Karna (also known as Radheya/son of Radha), Abhimanyu, Eklavya, Arjuna, Bhishma, Drona, Rama, and Shiva were known for their shooting skills. The famous archery competition of hitting the eye of a rotating fish while watching its reflection in the water bowl was one of the many archery skills depicted in the Mahabharata. \n\nPersian Arash was a famous archer. Earlier Greek representations of Heracles normally depict him as an archer.\n\nThe Nymphai Hyperboreioi (Νύμφαι Ὑπερβόρειοι) were worshipped on the Greek island of Delos as attendants of Artemis, presiding over aspects of archery; Hekaerge (Ἑκαέργη), represented distancing, Loxo (Λοξώ), trajectory, and Oupis (Οὖπις), aim.\n\nYi the archer and his apprentice Feng Meng appear in several early Chinese myths, and the historical character of Zhou Tong features in many fictional forms. Jumong, the first Taewang of the Goguryeo kingdom of the Three Kingdoms of Korea, is claimed by legend to have been a near-godlike archer. Archery features in the story of Oguz Khagan.\n\nIn West African Yoruba belief, Osoosi is one of several deities of the hunt who are identified with bow and arrow iconography and other insignia associated with archery.\n\nWhile there is great variety in the construction details of bows (both historic and modern), all bows consist of a string attached to elastic limbs that store mechanical energy imparted by the user drawing the string. Bows may be broadly split into two categories: those drawn by pulling the string directly and those that use a mechanism to pull the string.\n\nDirectly drawn bows may be further divided based upon differences in the method of limb construction, notable examples being self bows, laminated bows and composite bows. Bows can also be classified by the bow shape of the limbs when unstrung; in contrast to traditional European straight bows, a recurve bow and some types of longbow have tips that curve away from the archer when the bow is unstrung. The cross-section of the limb also varies; the classic longbow is a tall bow with narrow limbs that are D-shaped in cross section, and the flatbow has flat wide limbs that are approximately rectangular in cross-section. The classic D-shape comes from the use of the wood of the yew tree. The sap-wood is best suited to the tension on the back of the bow, and the heart-wood to the compression on the belly. Hence, a cross-section of a yew longbow shows the narrow, light-coloured sap-wood on the 'straight' part (riser) of the D, and the red/orange heartwood forms the curved part of the D, to balance the mechanical tension/compression stress. Cable-backed bows use cords as the back of the bow; the draw weight of the bow can be adjusted by changing the tension of the cable. They were widespread among Inuit who lacked easy access to good bow wood. One variety of cable-backed bow is the Penobscot bow or Wabenaki bow, invented by Frank Loring (Chief Big Thunder) about 1900. It consists of a small bow attached by cables on the back of a larger main bow.\n\nIn different cultures, the arrows are released from either the left or right side of the bow, and this affects the hand grip and position of the bow. In Arab archery, Turkish archery and Kyūdō, the arrows are released from the right hand side of the bow, and this affects construction of the bow. In western archery, the arrow is usually released from the left hand side of the bow for a right-handed archer.\n\nCompound bows are designed to reduce the force required to hold the string at full draw, hence allowing the archer more time to aim with less muscular stress. Most compound designs use cams or elliptical wheels on the ends of the limbs to achieve this. A typical let-off is anywhere from 65% to 80%. For example, a 60-pound bow with 80% let-off only requires 12 pounds of force to hold at full draw. Up to 99% let-off is possible. The compound bow was invented by Holless Wilbur Allen in the 1960s (a US patent was filed in 1966 and granted in 1969) and it has become the most widely used type of bow for all forms of archery in North America.\n\nMechanically drawn bows typically have a stock or other mounting, such as the crossbow. Crossbows typically have shorter draw lengths compared to compound bows. Because of this, heavier draw weights are required to achieve the same energy transfer to the arrow. These mechanically drawn bows also have devices to hold the tension when the bow is fully drawn. They are not limited by the strength of a single archer and larger varieties have been used as siege engines.\n\nThe most common form of arrow consists of a shaft, with an arrowhead at the front end, and fletchings and a nock at the other end. Arrows across time and history have normally been carried in a container known as a quiver, which can take many different forms. Shafts of arrows are typically composed of solid wood, bamboo, fiberglass, aluminium alloy, carbon fiber, or composite materials. Wooden arrows are prone to warping. Fiberglass arrows are brittle, but can be produced to uniform specifications easily. Aluminium shafts were a very popular high-performance choice in the latter half of the 20th century, due to their straightness, lighter weight, and subsequently higher speed and flatter trajectories. Carbon fiber arrows became popular in the 1990s because they are very light, flying even faster and flatter than aluminium arrows. Today, the most popular arrows at tournaments and Olympic events are made of composite materials, in particular the X10 and A/C/E, made by Easton,\n\nThe arrowhead is the primary functional component of the arrow. Some arrows may simply use a sharpened tip of the solid shaft, but separate arrowheads are far more common, usually made from metal, stone, or other hard materials. The most commonly used forms are target points, field points, and broadheads, although there are also other types, such as bodkin, judo, and blunt heads.\nFletching is traditionally made from bird feathers, but solid plastic vanes and thin sheet-like spin vanes are used. They are attached near the nock (rear) end of the arrow with thin double sided tape, glue, or, traditionally, sinew. The most common configuration in all cultures is three fletches, though as many as six have been used. Two makes the arrow unstable in flight. When the arrow is \"three-fletched\", the fletches are equally spaced around the shaft, with one placed such that it is perpendicular to the bow when nocked on the string, though variations are seen with modern equipment, especially when using the modern spin vanes. This fletch is called the \"index fletch\" or \"cock feather\" (also known as \"the odd vane out\" or \"the nocking vane\"), and the others are sometimes called the \"hen feathers\". Commonly, the cock feather is of a different color. However, if archers are using fletching made of feather or similar material, they may use same color vanes, as different dyes can give varying stiffness to vanes, resulting in less precision. When an arrow is \"four-fletched\", two opposing fletches are often cock feathers, and occasionally the fletches are not evenly spaced.\n\nThe fletching may be either \"parabolic\" cut (short feathers in a smooth parabolic curve) or \"shield\" cut (generally shaped like half of a narrow shield), and is often attached at an angle, known as \"helical\" fletching, to introduce a stabilizing spin to the arrow while in flight. Whether helicial or straight fletched, when natural fletching (bird feathers) is used it is critical that all feathers come from the same side of the bird. Oversized fletchings can be used to accentuate drag and thus limit the range of the arrow significantly; these arrows are called \"flu-flus\". Misplacement of fletchings can change the arrow's flight path dramatically.\n\nDacron and other modern materials offer high strength for their weight and are used on most modern bows. Linen and other traditional materials are still used on traditional bows. Several modern methods of making a bowstring exist, such as the 'endless loop' and 'Flemish twist'. Almost any fiber can be made into a bowstring. The author of \"Arab Archery\" suggests the hide of a young, emaciated camel. Njál's saga describes the refusal of a wife, Hallgerður, to cut her hair to make an emergency bowstring for her husband, Gunnar Hámundarson, who is then killed.\n\nMost archers wear a bracer (also known as an arm-guard) to protect the inside of the bow arm from being hit by the string and prevent clothing from catching the bowstring. The bracer does not brace the arm; the word comes from the armoury term \"brassard\", meaning an armoured sleeve or badge. The Navajo people have developed highly ornamented bracers as non-functional items of adornment. Some archers (nearly all female archers) wear protection on their chests, called chestguards or plastrons. The myth of the Amazons was that they had one breast removed to solve this problem. Roger Ascham mentions one archer, presumably with an unusual shooting style, who wore a leather guard for his face.\n\nThe drawing digits are normally protected by a leather tab, glove, or thumb ring. A simple tab of leather is commonly used, as is a skeleton glove. Medieval Europeans probably used a complete leather glove.\n\nEurasiatic archers who used the thumb or Mongolian draw protected their thumbs, usually with leather according to the author of \"Arab Archery\", but also with special rings of various hard materials. Many surviving Turkish and Chinese examples are works of considerable art. Some are so highly ornamented that the users could not have used them to loose an arrow. Possibly these were items of personal adornment, and hence value, remaining extant whilst leather had virtually no intrinsic value and would also deteriorate with time. In traditional Japanese archery a special glove is used that has a ridge to assist in drawing the string.\n\nA release aid is a mechanical device designed to give a crisp and precise loose of arrows from a compound bow. In the most commonly used, the string is released by a finger-operated trigger mechanism, held in the archer's hand or attached to their wrist. In another type, known as a back-tension release, the string is automatically released when drawn to a pre-determined tension.\n\nStabilizers are mounted at various points on the bow. Common with competitive archery equipment are special brackets that allow multiple stabilizers to be mounted at various angles to fine tune the bow's balance.\n\nStabilizers aid in aiming by improving the balance of the bow. Sights, quivers, rests, and design of the riser (the central, non-bending part of the bow) make one side of the bow heavier. One purpose of stabilizers are to offset these forces. A reflex riser design will cause the top limb to lean towards the shooter. In this case a heavier front stabilizer is desired to offset this action. A deflex riser design has the opposite effect and a lighter front stabilizer may be used.\n\nStabilizers can reduce noise and vibration. These energies are absorbed by viscoelastic polymers, gels, powders, and other materials used to build stabilizers.\n\nStabilizers improve the forgiveness and accuracy by increasing the moment of inertia of the bow to resist movement during the shooting process. Lightweight carbon stabilizers with weighted ends are desirable because they improve the moment of interia while minimizing the weight added.\n\nThe standard convention on teaching archery is to hold the bow depending upon eye dominance. (One exception is in modern Kyudo where all archers are trained to hold the bow in the left hand.) Therefore, if one is right-eye dominant, they would hold the bow in the left hand and draw the string with the right hand. However, not everyone agrees with this line of thought. A smoother, and more fluid release of the string will produce the most consistently repeatable shots, and therefore may provide greater accuracy of the arrow flight. Some believe that the hand with the greatest dexterity should therefore be the hand that draws and releases the string. Either eye can be used for aiming, and the less dominant eye can be trained over time to become more effective for use. To assist with this, an eye patch can be temporarily worn over the dominant eye.\n\nThe hand that holds the bow is referred to as the \"bow hand\" and its arm the \"bow arm\". The opposite hand is called the \"drawing hand\" or \"string hand\". Terms such as \"bow shoulder\" or \"string elbow\" follow the same convention.\n\nIf shooting according to eye dominance, right-eye-dominant archers shooting conventionally hold the bow with their left hand. If shooting according to hand dexterity, the archer draws the string with the hand that possesses the greatest dexterity, regardless of eye dominance.\n\nTo shoot an arrow, an archer first assumes the correct stance. The body should be at or nearly perpendicular to the target and the shooting line, with the feet placed shoulder-width apart. As an archer progresses from beginner to a more advanced level other stances such as the \"open stance\" or the \"closed stance\" may be used, although many choose to stick with a \"neutral stance\". Each archer has a particular preference, but mostly this term indicates that the leg furthest from the shooting line is a half to a whole foot-length from the other foot, on the ground.\n\nTo load, the bow is pointed toward the ground, tipped slightly clockwise of vertical (for a right handed shooter) and the shaft of the arrow is placed on the arrow rest or shelf. The back of the arrow is attached to the bowstring with the nock (a small locking groove located at the proximal end of the arrow). This step is called \"nocking the arrow\". Typical arrows with three vanes should be oriented such that a single vane, the \"cock feather\", is pointing away from the bow, to improve the clearance of the arrow as it passes the arrow rest.\n\nA compound bow is fitted with a special type of arrow rest, known as a launcher, and the arrow is usually loaded with the cock feather/vane pointed either up, or down, depending upon the type of launcher being used.\n\nThe bowstring and arrow are held with three fingers, or with a mechanical arrow release. Most commonly, for finger shooters, the index finger is placed above the arrow and the next two fingers below, although several other techniques have their adherents around the world, involving three fingers below the arrow, or an arrow pinching technique. \"Instinctive\" shooting is a technique eschewing sights and is often preferred by traditional archers (shooters of longbows and recurves). In either the split finger or three finger under case, the string is usually placed in the first or second joint, or else on the pads of the fingers. When using a mechanical release aid, the release is hooked onto the D-loop.\n\nAnother type of string hold, used on traditional bows, is the type favoured by the Mongol warriors, known as the \"thumb release\", style. This involves using the thumb to draw the string, with the fingers curling around the thumb to add some support. To release the string, the fingers are opened out and the thumb relaxes to allow the string to slide off the thumb. When using this type of release, the arrow should rest on the same side of the bow as the drawing hand i.e. Left hand draw = arrow on left side of bow.\n\nThe archer then raises the bow and draws the string, with varying alignments for vertical versus slightly canted bow positions. This is often one fluid motion for shooters of recurves and longbows, which tend to vary from archer to archer. Compound shooters often experience a slight jerk during the drawback, at around the last inch and a half, where the draw weight is at its maximum—before relaxing into a comfortable stable full draw position. The archer draws the string hand towards the face, where it should rest lightly at a fixed \"anchor point\". This point is consistent from shot to shot, and is usually at the corner of the mouth, on the chin, to the cheek, or to the ear, depending on preferred shooting style. The archer holds the bow arm outwards, toward the target. The elbow of this arm should be rotated so that the inner elbow is perpendicular to the ground, though archers with hyper extendable elbows tend to angle the inner elbow toward the ground, as exemplified by the Korean archer Jang Yong-Ho. This keeps the forearm out of the way of the bowstring.\n\nIn modern form, the archer stands erect, forming a \"T\". The archer's lower trapezius muscles are used to pull the arrow to the anchor point. Some modern recurve bows are equipped with a mechanical device, called a clicker, which produces a clicking sound when the archer reaches the correct draw length. In contrast, traditional English Longbow shooters step \"into the bow\", exerting force with both the bow arm and the string hand arm simultaneously, especially when using bows having draw weights from 100 lbs to over 175 lbs. Heavily stacked traditional bows (recurves, long bows, and the like) are released immediately upon reaching full draw at maximum weight, whereas compound bows reach their maximum weight around the last inch and a half, dropping holding weight significantly at full draw. Compound bows are often held at full draw for a short time to achieve maximum accuracy.\n\nThe arrow is typically released by relaxing the fingers of the drawing hand (see Bow draw), or triggering the mechanical release aid. Usually the release aims to keep the drawing arm rigid, the bow hand relaxed, and the arrow is moved back using the back muscles, as opposed to using just arm motions. An archer should also pay attention to the recoil or \"follow through\" of his or her body, as it may indicate problems with form (technique) that affect accuracy.\n\nThere are two main forms of aiming in archery: using a mechanical or fixed sight, or barebow.\n\nMechanical sights can be affixed to the bow to aid in aiming. They can be as simple as a pin, or may use optics with magnification. They usually also have a peep sight (rear sight) built into the string, which aids in a consistent anchor point. Modern compound bows automatically limit the draw length to give a consistent arrow velocity, while traditional bows allow great variation in draw length. Some bows use mechanical methods to make the draw length consistent. Barebow archers often use a sight picture, which includes the target, the bow, the hand, the arrow shaft and the arrow tip, as seen at the same time by the archer. With a fixed \"anchor point\" (where the string is brought to, or close to, the face), and a fully extended bow arm, successive shots taken with the sight picture in the same position fall on the same point. This lets the archer adjust aim with successive shots to achieve accuracy.\n\nModern archery equipment usually includes sights. Instinctive aiming is used by many archers who use traditional bows. The two most common forms of a non-mechanical release are split-finger and three-under. Split-finger aiming requires the archer to place the index finger above the nocked arrow, while the middle and ring fingers are both placed below. Three-under aiming places the index, middle, and ring fingers under the nocked arrow. This technique allows the archer to better look down the arrow since the back of the arrow is closer to the dominant eye, and is commonly called \"gun barreling\" (referring to common aiming techniques used with firearms).\n\nWhen using short bows or shooting from horseback, it is difficult to use the sight picture. The archer may look at the target, but without including the weapon in the field of accurate view. Aiming then involves hand-eye coordination—which includes proprioception and motor-muscle memory, similar to that used when throwing a ball. With sufficient practice, such archers can normally achieve good practical accuracy for hunting or for war. Aiming without a sight picture may allow more rapid shooting, not however increasing accuracy.\n\nInstinctive shooting is a style of shooting that includes the barebow aiming method that relies heavily upon the subconscious mind, proprioception, and motor/muscle memory to make aiming adjustments; the term used to refer to a general category of archers who did not use a mechanical or fixed sight.\n\nWhen a projectile is thrown by hand, the speed of the projectile is determined by the kinetic energy imparted by the thrower's muscles performing work. However, the energy must be imparted over a limited distance (determined by arm length) and therefore (because the projectile is accelerating) over a limited time, so the limiting factor is not work but rather power, which determined how much energy can be added in the limited time available. Power generated by muscles, however, is limited by force–velocity relationship, and even at the optimal contraction speed for power production, total work by the muscle is less than half of what it would be if the muscle contracted over the same distance at slow speeds, resulting in less than 1/4 the projectile launch velocity possible without the limitations of the force–velocity relationship.\n\nWhen a bow is used, the muscles are able to perform work much more slowly, resulting in greater force and greater work done. This work is stored in the bow as elastic potential energy, and when the bowstring is released, this stored energy is imparted to the arrow much more quickly than can be delivered by the muscles, resulting in much higher velocity and, hence, greater distance. This same process is employed by frogs, which use elastic tendons to increase jumping distance. In archery, some energy dissipates through elastic hysteresis, reducing the overall amount released when the bow is shot. Of the remaining energy, some is dampened both by the limbs of the bow and the bowstring. Depending on the arrow's elasticity, some of the energy is also absorbed by compressing the arrow, primarily because the release of the bowstring is rarely in line with the arrow shaft, causing it to flex out to one side. This is because the bowstring accelerates faster than the archer's fingers can open, and consequently some sideways motion is imparted to the string, and hence arrow nock, as the power and speed of the bow pulls the string off the opening fingers.\n\nEven with a release aid mechanism some of this effect is usually experienced, since the string always accelerates faster than the retaining part of the mechanism. This makes the arrow oscillate in flight—its center flexing to one side and then the other repeatedly, gradually reducing as the arrow's flight proceeds. This is clearly visible in high-speed photography of arrows at discharge. A direct effect of these energy transfers can clearly be seen when dry firing. Dry firing refers to releasing the bowstring without a nocked arrow. Because there is no arrow to receive the stored potential energy, almost all the energy stays in the bow. Some have suggested that dry firing may cause physical damage to the bow, such as cracks and fractures—and because most bows are not specifically made to handle the high amounts of energy dry firing produces, should never be done.\nModern arrows are made to a specified 'spine', or stiffness rating, to maintain matched flexing and hence accuracy of aim. This flexing can be a desirable feature, since, when the spine of the shaft is matched to the acceleration of the bow(string), the arrow bends or flexes around the bow and any arrow-rest, and consequently the arrow, and fletchings, have an un-impeded flight. This feature is known as the archer's paradox. It maintains accuracy, for if part of the arrow struck a glancing blow on discharge, some inconsistency would be present, and the excellent accuracy of modern equipment would not be achieved.\n\nThe accurate flight of an arrow is dependent on its fletching. The arrow's manufacturer (a \"fletcher\") can arrange fletching to cause the arrow to rotate along its axis. This improves accuracy by evening pressure buildups that would otherwise cause the arrow to \"plane\" on the air in a random direction after shooting. Even with a carefully made arrow, the slightest imperfection or air movement causes some unbalanced turbulence in air flow. Consequently, rotation creates an equalization of such turbulence, which, overall, maintains the intended direction of flight i.e. accuracy. This rotation is not to be confused with the rapid gyroscopic rotation of a rifle bullet. Fletching that is not arranged to induce rotation still improves accuracy by causing a restoring drag any time the arrow tilts from its intended direction of travel.\n\nThe innovative aspect of the invention of the bow and arrow was the amount of power delivered to an extremely small area by the arrow. The huge ratio of length vs. cross sectional area, coupled with velocity, made the arrow more powerful than any other hand held weapon until firearms were invented. Arrows can spread or concentrate force, depending on the application. Practice arrows, for instance, have a blunt tip that spreads the force over a wider area to reduce the risk of injury or limit penetration. Arrows designed to pierce armor in the Middle Ages used a very narrow and sharp tip (\"bodkinhead\") to concentrate the force. Arrows used for hunting used a narrow tip (\"broadhead\") that widens further, to facilitate both penetration and a large wound.\n\nUsing archery to take game animals is known as \"bow hunting\". Bow hunting differs markedly from hunting with firearms, as distance between hunter and prey must be much shorter to ensure a humane kill. The skills and practices of bow hunting therefore emphasize very close approach to the prey, whether by still hunting, stalking, or waiting in a blind or tree stand. In many countries, including much of the United States, bow hunting for large and small game is legal. Bow hunters generally enjoy longer seasons than are allowed with other forms of hunting such as black powder, shotgun, or rifle. Usually, compound bows are used for large game hunting due to the relatively short time it takes to master them as opposed to the longbow or recurve bow. These compound bows may feature fiber optic sights, stabilizers, and other accessories designed to increase accuracy at longer distances. Using a bow and arrow to take fish is known as \"bow fishing\".\n\nCompetitive archery involves shooting arrows at a target for accuracy from a set distance or distances. This is the most popular form of competitive archery worldwide and is called target archery. A form particularly popular in Europe and America is field archery, shot at targets generally set at various distances in a wooded setting. Competitive archery in the United States is governed by USA Archery and National Field Archery Association (NFAA), which also certifies instructors.\n\nPara-Archery is an adaptation of archery for athletes with a disability governed by the World Archery Federation (WA), and is one of the sports in the Summer Paralympic Games. There are also several other lesser-known and historical forms of archery, as well as archery novelty games and flight archery, where the aim is to shoot the greatest distance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10949851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10949851", "title": "Armenians in Germany", "text": "Armenians in Germany\n\nArmenians in Germany are ethnic Armenians living within the modern republic of Germany. Like much of the Armenian diaspora, most Armenians immigrated to Germany after the Armenian Genocide of 1915. Others came later, fleeing conflicts in places like Iran, Azerbaijan and Lebanon. Another influx came fleeing nationalist persecution in Turkey. After World War II, many Soviet Armenians, former POWs in particular, fled to the American occupied areas of Germany. While many traveled on, some settled in the country, providing a base for later asylum-seekers.\n\nThe first Armenian organization was the \"Armenian Colony of Berlin\", established in 1923. By 1975, Armenian associations would be established in Hamburg, Berlin, Cologne, Frankfurt, Stuttgart and Munich. In the 1980s, other associations were created in Bremen, Braunschweig, Bielefeld, Duisburg, Neuwied, Bonn, Hanau, Eppingen, Nuremberg, Kehl and elsewhere.\n\nPresently, there are about 35,000 naturalized Armenians and 15,000 asylum-seeking Armenians living in Germany today. Their population is concentrated in Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania, many of which are Armenian asylum-seekers from Armenia, for whom the Armenian Church provides services, baptisms, Bible readings and community support. The Diocese of Germany bears all the costs of supporting Armenians from post-Soviet Armenia and regards this service as part of its mission.\n\nWhile the German parliament has adopted a resolution that recognizes the \"organized expulsion and destruction of the Armenians\", and states that \"numerous independent historians, parliaments and international organizations\" have recognized the event as genocide, the resolution does not state such itself. The resolution also contains an apology for Germany's role in the Genocide (The German Monarchy was an\nally of Ottoman Turkey during World War I, and did not intervene despite ample evidence of a policy of extermination) and calls on Turkey to examine its role in the ethnic cleansing.\n\nThis resolution is deemed significant due to the comparatively large number of \nTurkish nationals living in Germany.\n\n"}
{"id": "26036734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26036734", "title": "Bangi–Ntomba languages", "text": "Bangi–Ntomba languages\n\nThe Bangi–Ntomba languages are a group of Bantu languages spoken in the Democratic Republic of Congo and the Republic of the Congo. They are coded Zone C.30 in Guthrie's classification, and included the trade language Lingala, one of four national languages of the DRC and two of the RC.\n\nAccording to Nurse & Philippson (2003), apart from the Ngiri languages (to Ngondi–Ngiri) and Budza (Buja), and together with a few additional languages such as Mongo-Nkundu, they form a valid node. Using Guthrie's listing, they are:\n\n\nLingala and Bangala developed as trade languages, primarily on a Bangi lexical base.\n\n"}
{"id": "53740357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53740357", "title": "Bhat People", "text": "Bhat People\n\nThe Bhats are an Indo-Aryan clan of Kshatriyas formed through the unification of gotras of Suryavanshi, Agnivanshi, Chandravanshi and Nagavanshi descent. The Bhats reside primarily in the Punjab district of India.\n\nThe Bhats are an Indo-Aryan people. The main two Y-DNA haplogroups that have been identified in this community are R1a1 and R2. \n\nThe main MtDNA haplogroups that have been identified in this community are haplogroup U and M3.\n\nA high frequency of Bhats possess light hair and light eyes; Blue, Grey, Green and Hazel eyes being prime amongst them.\n\nThe Bhats are descended from four ancient Kshatriya lineages, originating from outside of the Punjab region. Specifically from the areas encompassing Rajasthan, Madhya Pradesh, Sindh and northeast Gujarat.\n\nIn the Vedic period the Kshatriya ancestors of the Bhats were nobles, soldiers and kinsmen. As the period declined so did the need for excess nobility, many Kshatriyas left to live in villages with their families- losing their positions in society, but maintaining their status.\n\nThe Bhats initially came together as a \"biradari\": an ethno-social circle unified under the religion of Sikhism. Their conversion to the faith owed to the missionary efforts of Changa Bhat Rai from whom the name of the \"bhiradari\" originates. They are also colloquially known as Bhatras.\n\nThe primary occupation of members of the \"biradari\" was to evangelise and bring converts into Sikhism through serving as missionaries. However many of the Bhats worked under other occupations; as traders, businessmen, astrologers, clairvoyants and ayurvedic healers.\n\nHowever in recent years through immigration and the social elevation enabled through education Bhats have been able to work in upper and middle-class occupations.\n\nThe Kshatriyas adhered to the Vedic religion, which later branched into Hinduism, the descendants of these Kshatriyas were the first Bhats, abandoning their ancestral religion circa the 16th Century AD in favour of Sikhism. \n\nThe majority of Bhats are Sikhs however there do exist visible minorities of Hindus, Christians and Buddhists among populations of the community who now reside across the world.\n\nMany Bhats of the older generation who profess to be Sikhs still adhere to Vedic customs such as; avoiding the consumption of beef and bovine products, fasting on auspicious days, offering worship to deities and performing pilgrimage to sacred sites in the Himalayas and along the riverbanks of the Indo-Gangetic plain.\n\nThe Bhat people are subdivided into twenty-two Kshatriya Gotras.\nThe Bhats are descended from four lineages.\n\nVanshis\n\nGotras\n\n"}
{"id": "2322703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2322703", "title": "British Fantasy Society", "text": "British Fantasy Society\n\nThe British Fantasy Society (BFS) was founded in 1971 as the British Weird Fantasy Society, an offshoot of the British Science Fiction Association. The society is dedicated to promoting the best in the fantasy, science fiction and horror genres.\n\nIn 2000, the BFS won the Special Award: Non-Professional at the World Fantasy Awards. The society also has its own awards, the annual British Fantasy Awards, created in 1971 at the suggestion of its president, the author Ramsey Campbell. It held its first Fantasycon in 1975.\n\nThe current British Fantasy Society has no direct connection with the earlier science fiction group using the same name from 1942 to 1946.\n\nThe BFS currently publishes two magazines, \"BFS Horizons\", its fiction publication; and the \"BFS Journal\", its non-fiction and academic publication. Each has two issues a year, with alternating schedules. These are available in both print and electronically. It also produces a monthly members only email, which rounds up news, reviews and usually includes an exclusive short story. Previous publications include \"Prism\", which featured news, reviews and columns, \"Dark Horizons\", which featured fiction, non-fiction and poetry, and enjoyed the patronage of many established authors, artists, critics and journalists, and \"New Horizons\", issued twice a year from 2008 to 2010, which published fiction and articles, but not poetry. There was also \"Shelflings\", an ezine collecting reviews from the BFS website.\n\nThe society continues to produce a series of publications, including numbered chapbooks of works by William Hope Hodgson, Michael Moorcock, Ramsey Campbell, Peter Tremayne, August Derleth, and M. R. James. Magazines previously published include \"Winter Chills\" (later renamed \"Chills\"), edited by Peter Coleborn, and \"Mystique: Tales Of Wonder\", edited by Mike Chinn. Both these magazines were independent publications, but linked to the BFS, and in the case of \"Mystique\", absorbed into \"Dark Horizons\" after a few issues. Paperback titles include \"Clive Barker: Mythmaker for the Millennium\" by Suzanne J. Barbieri, and \"Annabel Says\", a modern ghost story by Simon Clark and Stephen Laws. In 2007 it published \"HP Lovecraft in Britain: a Monograph\", written by Stephen Jones and illustrated by Les Edwards.\n\n\"Dark Horizons\", the journal of the British Fantasy Society, was published from 1971 to 2010, before being folded into the British Fantasy Society Journal. Its contents and subject matter varied, according to the tastes of the editors and the contents of the other magazines being published by the BFS at the same time, but generally included some combination of fantasy, science-fiction and horror-related fiction, articles, poetry and artwork.\n\nIts editors included:\n\n\nThe BFS Journal is produced biannually and collects together non-fiction articles on Fantasy, Horror and Science Fiction. These include academic papers, book and film reviews, author interviews and more. The current editor for the BFS Journal is Allen Stroud, who took over from Stuart Douglas in 2016.\n\nAnother notable member of the British Fantasy Society is the author Stephen Gallagher.\n\n"}
{"id": "43688669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43688669", "title": "Camden bench", "text": "Camden bench\n\nThe Camden bench is a type of concrete street furniture. It was commissioned by the Camden London Borough Council and installed in Camden, London in 2012. It is designed specifically to influence the behaviour of the public by restricting undesirable behaviour, a principle known as hostile architecture, and instead be usable only as a bench. Because the design is \"defined far more by what it is not than what it is\" the bench has been called the \"perfect anti-object\" and a \"masterpiece of unpleasant design\". \"Feature sites\" for introduction of the bench were on Great Queen Street and High Holborn.\n\nProduced by UK company Factory Furniture, the bench is designed to deter use for sleeping, littering, skateboarding, drug dealing, graffiti and theft. It attempts to achieve this primarily through angular surfaces (deterring sleepers and skateboarders), an absence of crevices or hiding places, and non-permeable materials (a waterproof anti-paint coating). It is not secured to the ground and can be moved by a crane attaching to built-in anchor points. Due to its weight it is also designed to function as a roadblock.\n\nA Camden bench has been used as part of an installation artwork by Roger Hiorns.\n\nThe design has achieved several awards:\n\nIt has also been accredited as:\n\nThe Camden bench received criticism as being a prime example of a wider trend of urban design that is anti-homeless, known as hostile architecture. The designers contend that: \"Homelessness should never be tolerated in any society and if we start designing in to accommodate homeless then we have totally failed as a society. Close proximity to homelessness unfortunately makes us uncomfortable so perhaps it is good that we feel that and recognise homelessness as a problem rather than design to accommodate it.\"\n\nCritics also claimed it is emblematic of a society where freedom in public space has been curtailed and deviance from accepted forms of behaviour have been made impossible. The designers claim in response: \"[Because] there is no 'correct' way to sit on it... it becomes a far more inclusive seat encouraging social interaction.\"\n\nPopular criticism focused on subverting restrictions imposed by the bench, for example by attempting to skateboard on it.\n\nThe technical specifications are:\n\n"}
{"id": "32544241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32544241", "title": "Canadian diaspora", "text": "Canadian diaspora\n\nThe Canadian diaspora is the group of Canadians living outside the borders of Canada. As of a 2010 report by the Asia Pacific Foundation of Canada, there were 2.8 million Canadian citizens abroad (plus an unknown number of former citizens and descendents of citizens). For comparison, that is a larger population than six of the ten Canadian provinces. More than 9% of all Canadian citizens live outside of Canada. That compares to 1.7% of Americans, 2.6% of Chinese citizens, 3.3% of French citizens, 4.3% of Australians, 9% of British citizens, and 21.9% of New Zealanders.\n\nIn past decades, most Canadians leaving the country have moved to the United States. In the 1980s, Los Angeles had the fourth largest Canadian population of any city in North America, with New York close behind. Other countries and cities have emerged as major sites of Canadian settlement, notably Hong Kong, London, Beirut, Sydney, Paris, and Dubai. The population in New York experienced continued growth in the 2000s, doubling between 2000 and 2008 to 21,000, representing the eighth largest foreign-born group in the Borough of Manhattan.\n\nMany Canadians in the United States are there without legal permission; a 2008 report by the Urban Institute estimated that \"65,000 and 75,000 undocumented Canadians currently live in the United States\".\n\nThe largest Canadian populations abroad by country are: \nCitizens born in Canada make up about 58% of the diaspora, the other 42% being people born outside Canada who became naturalized as Canadian citizens and then moved out again, often back to their country of origin, or sometimes to a third country. Native-born Canadians had an exit rate of about 1.33% over ten years from 1996 to 2006, compared to 4.5% for naturalized Canadians. Most Canadians in the United States are native-born, while most Canadians in Hong Kong are naturalized Canadians who were born in Hong Kong.\n\nFor native-born Canadians, the United States is the primary destination, and the emigration rate varies substantially by ethnicity. It is especially high among Middle Eastern, Eastern European, and South Asian Canadians, indicating that the English-speaking and well-educated children of immigrants are often highly mobile. French Canadians have the highest rate of return to Canada at 29%. Among naturalized Canadians, exit rates vary by country of origin, being highest among Canadians from typically highly developed countries (Hong Kong, United States, Taiwan, France). Exit rates among Canada's two largest immigrant populations, Mainland Chinese and Indians, were very low during 1996 to 2006 but have risen.\n\nBritish Columbians are particularly likely to go overseas, more than twice as likely as an Ontarian, and five times more likely as a Quebecer, according to a 2007 survey by \"The Vancouver Sun\". Many of these are Hong Kong returnees; the so-called \"astronauts\" or \"yacht people\" who moved to Vancouver from Hong Kong in the 1980s and 90s, but later returned. However, two-thirds of Canadians overseas (in 2007) were Canadian-born, outnumbering returning immigrants.\n\nCanadians living abroad cannot vote on Canadian elections after a period of five years residing overseas. This is also similar to other Westminster democracies.\n\n"}
{"id": "483581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=483581", "title": "Chuvash people", "text": "Chuvash people\n\nThe Chuvash people (; , ; , ) are a Turkic ethnic group, native to an area stretching from the Volga Region to Siberia. Most of them live in the Republic of Chuvashia and surrounding areas, although Chuvash communities may be found throughout the Russian Federation.\n\nThere is no universally accepted etymology of the word \"Chuvash\", but there are two main theories that try to explain it: one suggests that the word \"Chuvash\" may be derived from Common Turkic \"jăvaš\" (‘friendly’, ‘peaceful’), as opposed to \"şarmăs\" (‘warlike’). Another theory is based on the \"Tabghach\", an early medieval Xianbei clan and founders of the Northern Wei dynasty in China. The Old Turkic name \"Tabghach\" (\"Tuoba\" in Mandarin) was used by some Inner Asian peoples to refer to China long after this dynasty. Gerard Clauson has shown that through regular sound changes, the clan name Tabghach may have transformed to the ethnonym Chuvash.\n\nThere are rival schools of thought on the origin of the Chuvash people. One is that they originated from a mixing between the Turkic Sabir tribes of Volga Bulgaria and also according to some researches with local Finno-Ugric populations.\n\nAccording to another theory, the Chuvash may be descended from the Volga Bulgars.\n\nThey have been subjected to much infusion and influence, not only from Russian and Turkic peoples, but also from neighboring Finnic tribes, with whom they were persistently and mistakenly identified for centuries, perhaps aided by the fact that the Chuvash language is a highly divergent form of Turkic, and was not easily recognized as such. Chuvash is classified, alongside the extinct Bulgar language, as the only remaining member of the Oghuric branch of the Turkic language family.\n\nPhysical anthropologists using the racial frameworks of the early 20th Century saw the Chuvash as a mixed Finno-Ugric and Turkic people.\n\nIn surveys of mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA), haplogroups J2 (mostly J2a) and E are most common among the Chuvash, followed by N and R1a. \n\nSubclades of Y-DNA haplogroups R1 and N are most common among the Chuvash. According to Rootsi et al. 2004, Tambets et al. 2004 (79 samples), and Trofimova 2005 (43 samples) the following distribution of haplogroups is obtained:\nHaplogroups Q and C are rare among Chuvashes. Chuvash carriers of Haplogroup R1a (19% in hundreds of samples) are Balto-Slavic Z282 subclade.\n\nA study sampling of unrelated 96 Chuvashes concluded:\nLater, the assertion H, U, and K are \"absent in Altaic or Mongolian populations\" turned into \"virtually absent in Altaic or Mongolian populations.\" The MtDNA gene pool was found to be 89.1% Caucasoid, 9.1% East Asian and 1.8% unidentified.\n\nAccording to autosomal analyses: \"Present-day Chuvash speak an Altaic-Turkic language and are genetically related to Caucasians (Georgians), Mediterraneans, and Middle Easterners, and not only to Central or Northern Europeans; Chuvash contain little indications of Central Asian-Altaic gene flow. Thus, present-day Chuvash who speak an Altaic-Turkic language are probably more closely related to ancient Mesopotamian-Hittites and northern European populations than to central Asia-Altaic people.\"\n\nFinally, an autosomal analysis detected an indication of Oghur and possibly Bulgar ancestry, from which the Chuvashes developed their language: \"Chuvashes, the only extant Oghur speakers showed an older admixture date (9th century) than their Kipchak-speaking neighbors in the Volga region. According to historical sources, when the Onogur-Bolgar Empire (northern Black Sea steppes) fell apart in the 7th century, some of its remnants migrated northward along the right bank of the Volga river and established what later came to be known as Volga Bolgars, of which the first written knowledge appears in Muslim sources only around the end of the 9th century. Thus, the admixture signal for Chuvashes is close to the supposed arrival time of Oghur speakers in the Volga region.\"\n\nAnother study admitted substantial Finno-Ugric component in Chuvashes, unlike its complete absence in Bashkirs, but noted that some aspects of HLA in Volga Tatars are close to Chuvashes and Bulgarians, declaring the suggestion of Bulgar descent.\n\nAccording to other study of HLA the Bulgar descent of the Chuvash can not be confirmed and that Bulgarians and Chuvashes are clearly different:\nChuvash people are divided into two main groups: \n\nThe Turkic ancestors of the Chuvash people are believed to have come from central Siberia, where they lived in the Irtysh basin (between the Tian Shan and Altay) from at least the end of the third millennium BC. In the beginning of the first century AD, the Bulgars started moving west through Zhetysu and the steppes of modern-day Kazakhstan, reaching the North Caucasus in 2nd–3rd centuries AD. There they established several states (Old Bulgaria on the Black Sea coast and the Suar Duchy in modern-day Dagestan.\n\nOld Bulgaria broke up in the second half of the 7th century after a series of successful Khazar invasions. Some of its population fled north, to the Volga-Kama region, where they established Volga Bulgaria, which eventually became extremely wealthy: its capital being the 4th largest city in the world. Shortly after that, the Suvar Duchy was forced to become a vassal state of Khazaria. About half a century later, the Suvars took part in the Arab–Khazar wars of 732–737.\n\nIt is believed that the Chuvash people came in strong contact with Iranian tribes. \n\nThey speak the Chuvash language and have some pre-Christian traditions. In addition to Chuvash, many people also use the Russian language.\n\nToday Chuvash people are Eastern Orthodox Christians and belong to the Russian Orthodox Church. They retain some pre-Christian (or pagan) traditions in their cultural activities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23582792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23582792", "title": "Coronation of the Holy Roman Emperor", "text": "Coronation of the Holy Roman Emperor\n\nThe Coronation of the Holy Roman Emperor was a ceremony in which the ruler of Europe's then-largest political entity received the Imperial Regalia at the hands of the Pope, symbolizing both the pope's alleged right to crown Christian sovereigns and also the emperor's role as protector of the Roman Catholic Church. The Holy Roman Empresses were crowned as well.\n\nThe Holy Roman Empire was established in the year 800 under Charlemagne. Later emperors were also crowned by the pope or other Catholic bishops, until Charles V became the last Holy Roman Emperor to be crowned by a pope, by Clement VII at Bologna, in 1530. Thereafter, until the abolition of the empire in 1806, no further crownings by the Pope were held. Later rulers simply proclaimed themselves \"Imperator Electus Romanorum\" or \"Elected Emperor of the Romans\" after their election and coronation as German king, without the ultimate formality of an imperial coronation by the Pope in Rome.\n\nSuccessors of Charlemagne were crowned in Rome for several centuries, where they received the imperial crown in St. Peter's from the pope.\n\nThe Iron Crown of Lombardy (with the title \"King of Italy\" or \"King of the Lombards\") was conferred in the Church of St. Ambrose at Milan or at the cathedral of Monza, that of Burgundy at Arles, and the German crown —which came to be the most important of all — was usually given at Aachen, until 1562 when, until the last German coronation in 1792, the Emperors-elect were crowned Kings in Germany in Frankfurt Cathedral, which had already in 1356 also become the established site for the imperial elections.\n\nThe German coronation ceremony first required the electors to meet at Frankfurt, under the presidency of the Elector-Archbishop of Mainz, who formally summoned the electors and who always had the right of the last vote. Once a candidate was selected, the new emperor was led to the high altar of the cathedral and seated. He was then conducted to a gallery over the entrance to the choir, where he seated himself with the electors while proclamation was made of his election. The coronation itself took place on a subsequent day.\n\nIf the coronation was performed (as it usually was before 1562) at the Palatine Chapel at Aachen, (now the Aachen Cathedral), then the Archbishop of Cologne, as diocesan, was the chief officiant, and was assisted by the two other clerical electors, the Archbishop of Mainz and the Archbishop of Trier. These three Archbishop-Electors meet the Emperor-elect at the entrance of the church and the Archbishop of Cologne says the prayer, \"Almighty, everlasting God, your servant...etc.\" Then the choir sings the antiphon, \"Behold, I sent my Angel...etc.\" (\"Ecce mitto Angelum meum...\"), as the Emperor-elect and then the Archbishops proceed into the church. The Archbishop of Cologne then said the prayers, \"God, who knows the human race...etc.\" and \"Almighty and everlasting God of heaven and earth...etc.\" The Mass is then begun, the propers being those of the Feast of the Epiphany. After the opening collect, the collect for the Feast of St. Michael. After the sequence is sung the Litany of the Saints and then the Archbishop of Cologne puts six questions to the Emperor-elect: 1. Will he defend the holy faith? 2. Will he defend the holy church? 3. Will he defend the kingdom? 4. Will he maintain the laws of the Empire? 5. Will he maintain justice? 6. Will he show due submission to the Pope? To each of these he responds, \"I will.\" The Emperor-elect then lays two fingers on the altar and swears. The Recognition then followed and when the Emperor-elect is presented and asked if those assembled accepted him as their king, they respond, \"Let it be done\" three times.\n\nThe Archbishop of Cologne then said the prayers, \"Bless, Lord, this king...etc.\" and \"Ineffable God...etc.\" The Archbishop then anointed him with the oil of the catechumens on his head, his breast and his shoulders, saying, \"I anoint you king with the oil of sanctification in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit. Amen.\" and then on the palms of both hands, saying, \"Let these hands be anointed, as kings and prophets were anointed and as Samuel anointed David to be king may you be blessed and established king in this kingdom over this people, whom the Lord, your God, has given you to rule and govern, which he vouchsafes to grant, who with the Father and the Holy Spirit, lives and reigns...etc.\" and on the palms of both hands. He was then vested in the imperial robes, which included buskins, a long alb, a dalmatic, stole crossed priest-wise over the breast, gloves and the mantle. The sword was given the German king with the words, \"Receive this sword at the hands of us bishops...etc.\" The ring was given him with the words, \"Receive this ring of royal dignity...etc.\" The sceptre and orb are both given to the king with the words, \"Receive this rod of virtue and equity...etc.\" Finally the crown was set on his head conjointly by the three archbishop-electors with the words, \"Receive this royal crown...etc.\" The Oath was taken again, this time in the direct form in both Latin and German, \"I promise and pledge in the sight of God...etc.\" The responsory, \"My soul is longing...etc.\" and the king is enthroned with the words, \"Stand fast and hold firmely...etc.\" At the coronation of Charles V the Archbishop-Elector of Mainz preached a homily at this point.\n\nThe coronation of the queen consort followed and was conducted jointly by the Archbishop-Electors of Mainz and Trier. The Te Deum was then sung during which Charles V dubbed a number of knights with the imperial sword, although at subsequent coronations this took place after the Coronation proper. The Mass was then concluded,\nduring which the king communed im one kind. Whenever the coronations were performed at Aix-la-Chapelle, the new king was made a canon of the church at its conclusion. From 1562 to 1792 the German coronation took place before the Altar of St. Bartholomew in the crossing of the Frankfurt Cathedral.\n\nThe Roman imperial coronation evolved over the thousand years of the empire's existence from an originally very simple ritual (but which by its very simplicity paralleled and most clearly demonstrated its origins in its Byzantine counterpart) to one of increasing complexity. The oldest manuscript of the Roman imperial coronation ritual is found in the 9th century Gemunden Codex and while it is uncertain for whom (if anyone) the ritual described in it was intended to be used in it we come the closest to seeing the very types of forms which would have been used for Charlemagne himself. The ritual began with a short prayer for the Emperor, \"Hear our prayer, Lord, and those of your servant...\". This was immediately followed by the prayer, \"Look, Almighty God, with a serene gaze on this, your glorious servant...\", in which a golden crown was placed on the Emperor's head during the words of the concluding phrase of this prayer, \"Through whom honor and glory are yours through infinite ages of ages. Amen.\" A sword was then given to the Emperor with the word, \"Receive this sword by the hands of bishops, who, though unworthy, are consecrated to be in the place and authority of the holy Apostles, deliver it to you, with our blessing, to serve for the defense of the holy Church, divinely ordained, and remember of whom the Psalmist prophesied, saying, 'Gird the sword upon your thigh, O most Powerful One, that with it you may exercise equity.'\", a form which would have a long history both in the imperial coronation ritual and in those of numerous European royal coronation rituals as well. The \"Laudes Imperiale\" (a series of formal acclamations that originated in Roman times—see below) were then chanted. The ceremony traditionally took place in the Italian city of Bologna.\n\nIn its more developed form during the High Middle Ages, before the coronation proper the Emperor and went in procession first to the Church of St. Mary in Turri, where the emperor took an oath to protect the Roman Church, \"In the name of Christ, I, Frederick, the Emperor, promise, pledge and guarantee in the sight of God and the blessed Apostle Peter that I will be the protector and defender of this holy Roman Church in all ways useful to her, however many, in so far as I am supported by divine assistance according to my knowledge and ability.\" The imperial party then proceeded to the Basilica of St. Peter.\nThe Emperor was met at the silver door of St. Peter's by the Cardinal Bishop of Albano, who says the prayer, \"God in whose hands are the hearts of kings...\". He then entered the church, where the Cardinal Bishop of Porto said the prayer, \"Inscrutable God, Author of the world...\" The Emperor then went up into the choir and the Litany of the Saints then sung while the Emperor lay prostrate before the Altar of St. Peter. The Emperor then went to the Altar of St. Maurice, the patron saint of the Empire, where the Cardinal Bishop of Ostia anointed him on his right forearm and on the nape of his neck with the Oil of the Catechumens as he said the prayer, \"Lord God with whom is all power, ...\" or the prayer, \"God the Son of God...\" Following this, the Emperor proceeded to the Altar of St. Peter, where the Pope handed him a sword with the words, \"Receive the imperial sword for vindication over evil...\" and then kisses him. The Pope then gird the Emperor with the sword saying, \"Receive the sword upon your thigh...\" and kisses him again. The Emperor brandished the sword and returned it to its sheath. The Pope next handed the sceptre to the emperor with the words, \"Receive the royal sceptre, the rod of virtue...\" and lastly crowned him with the words, \"Receive the sign of glory...\" and kisses the Emperor a third time. The Germans present then chanted the \"Laudes Imperiale\" in German and Mass was celebrated.\n\nIn the coronation of Henry VI and Constantia we see the Roman imperial ritual in substantially its final form; the imperial coronation ritual used for Henry VII in 1312 and that found in the Roman Pontifical of 1520 differ from it only in certain details.\nThe Emperor and Empress go in procession to St. Mary in Turri, the choir singing, \"Behold, I send an angel\" (1312--The Emperor is received as a brother canon by the canons of the church and dressed in a surplice and an almuce.) The Emperor takes the Oath to defend the Roman Church and swears fealty to the Pope and his successors and kisses the Pope's feet. The Pope gives the Emperor the Kiss of Peace and the procession sets out for the Basilica of St. Peter, the choir singing, \"Blessed be the Lord God of Israel\" .\n\nAt the Silver Door of the Basilica the Cardinal Bishop of Albano says the prayer, \"God in whose hands are the hearts of kings.\" As the Pope enters the Basilica the responsory \"Peter, do you love me?\" is sung. At the \"Rota porfiretica\" the Pope puts several questions to the Emperor about his faith and duty and then he retires to vest for the Mass. The Cardinal Bishop of Porto says the prayer, \"Unerring God, Author of the World.\" The Emperor goes to the Chapel of St. Gregory where he is vested in amice, alb and cincture and is then led to the Pope who 'makes him a cleric. The Emperor is then vested in tunicle, dalmatic, pluviale, mitre, buskins and sandals. The Cardinal Bishop of Ostia in the meanwhile goes to the Silver Door where the Empress is waiting and on meeting her says the prayer, \"Almighty, eternal God, fount and source of goodness\" and then leads her to the Altar of St. Gregory to await the Pope's procession.\n\nThe Pope proceeds to the Confession of St. Peter and beginning the Mass. After the Kyrie, while the Emperor and Empress lie prostrate before the Confession, the Archdeacon sings the Litany of the Saints. The Emperor and Empress then rise and go to the Altar of St. Maurice where the Cardinal Bishop of Ostia anoints the Emperor with the Oil of the Catechumens on his right forearm and on the nape of his neck, while he says the prayers, \"The Lord God Almighty, whose all power is\" and \"God the Son of God.\" The Cardinal Bishop of Ostia then says the prayer, \"God who alone has immortality\" for the Empress and then anoints her on the breast with the Oil of the Catechumens while he says, \"The grace of the Holy Spirit through my humble ministry descend upon you copiously.\"\n\nThe Pope then descends to the Altar of St. Maurice (and 1312--kisses the Emperor 'after the manner of a deacon'). The Pope then give the Emperor a ring with the words, \"Receive this ring the visible witness of holy faith...\" and then the short prayer, \"God with whom is all power...\" (a much shorter version of the prayer said at the anointing). The Pope girds the sword on the Emperor with the words, \"Receive this sword with the blessing of God...\" and the prayer, \"God whose providence...\" and then crowns the Emperor with the words, \"Receive the Crown of royal excellence...\" The Pope gives the Emperor the Scepter with the words, \"Receive the Scepter of royal power, the rod of royal rectitude, the staff of virtue...\" and the prayer, \"Lord, fount of all honor...\"\n\nThe Pope returns to the Altar of St. Peter and the Gloria in excelsis is sung and the Pope says the collect, \"God of all kings...\" (In the 1312 and later coronations this is said after the collect for the feastday and after these collects the \"Laudes Imperiale\" are sung). The Epistle and the gradual is sung.\n\nThe \"Laudes Imperiale\" are sung and then the Gospel is read by the Emperor. At the Offertory the Emperor offers bread, candles and gold and the Emperor offers the Pope the wine and the Empress the water for the chalice. (1312--The Emperor serves the Pope 'as a subdeacon offering him the chalice and water cruet.) Both the Emperor and the Empress communicate and in 1312 after Communion the Emperor kisses the Pope's cheek and the Empress kisses the Pope's hand. (After 1312 at the end of the Mass the Pope if he chooses may say the prayers, \"Look, we ask you, Lord, with a serene countenance...\", \"Bless, Lord, we ask you, this prince...,\" or \"God, Father of eternal glory...\").\n\nOn leaving the Basilica the Emperor swore in three places to maintain the rights and privileges of the Roman people.\n\nThe Roman imperial coronation ritual had certain unique elements which distinguished it from those of the royal coronation rituals developed in the European royal coronation rituals, e.g., the stational character of the ritual in which individual parts of the ritual took place in different parts of the papal basilica (usually that of St. Peter's in the Vatican) and the imperial coronation is quite unique in not having a solemn enthronement of the monarch (or even any use of a throne at all) in its ritual. Instead of an enthronement ritual we find the chanting of the \"Laudes Regiae\", which paralleled in both form and importance its Byzantine imperial counterpart. Indeed, only those European coronation rituals which were directly modelled on the Roman imperial ritual, i.e., the papal coronation and the royal coronation ritual in the Roman Pontifical, also include such chanting of a \"Laudes\".\n\nThe custom of the emperors going to Rome to be crowned was last observed by Frederick III in 1440, his grandson, Charles V was crowned by the Pope in Bologna in 1530; after that only the German coronation ritual was celebrated.\n\nR. M. Woolley states that the accounts of the coronations of the Latin emperors of Constantinople are very scant and provide no record of the actual texts used in these ceremonies, but from what is recorded it may be assumed that these imperial coronations were modelled on the forms used for the coronations of the Holy Roman Emperors, rather than those traditionally used for the coronations of the Byzantine emperors.\n\nIt is unclear as to which crown was used for either the German royal coronation or the Roman imperial coronation. Lord Twining suggests that when the German royal coronation still took place at Aachen, the silver-gilt crown on the reliquary bust of Charlemagne was used, since the Imperial Crown or \"Reichskrone\" is made of gold. This is reinforced by medieval sources that refer to the Iron Crown of Italy, the silver crown of Germany and the gold crown of the Roman Empire. Twining indicates that it is also unclear as to what crown was used for the imperial coronation in Rome, and indicates that the Imperial Crown might have been worn by the emperor-elect for his formal entry into the city of Rome, with another gold crown, perhaps provided by the pope, being used in the actual imperial coronation ritual itself. One of these latter crowns, specifically that used for the imperial coronation of Frederick II, may be the Byzantine style closed crown found in the tomb of his mother, Constance of Sicily, in the Cathedral of Palermo. Apparently, once Frankfurt had become the normal site for the German royal coronation, the Imperial Crown was always used and thus eventually became identified as the Crown of Charlemagne.\n\nThe Imperial Crown was originally made for Otto I (probably in the workshops of Reichenau abbey, the single arch of the crown from front to back originally separating the two halves of the now collapsed inner cap like the ribbon which similarly caused the 10th bishops' miters to bulge up on either side. Thus the Imperial Crown is the first example of the miter crown worn as a unique privilege of the Holy Roman Emperors and Empresses. Later personal crowns of the Emperors were worn over miters with points like that of contemporary bishops' miters, the miter eventually becoming a part of the crown itself, although in the Baroque period the two halves of the miter took the form of two hemispheres.\n\nUp to and including the coronation of Richenza of Northeim at Cologne in 1125, Holy Roman Empresses and German queens were usually anointed and crowned separately from their husbands, unless joint ceremony was required by political circumstances. From then on, joint coronation ceremonies were more common.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1844155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1844155", "title": "Creative class", "text": "Creative class\n\nThe creative class is a posited socioeconomic class identified by American economist and social scientist Richard Florida, a professor and head of the Martin Prosperity Institute at the Rotman School of Management at the University of Toronto. According to Florida, the creative class are a key driving force for economic development of post-industrial cities in the United States.\n\nFlorida describes the creative class as comprising 40 million workers (about 30 percent of the U.S. workforce). He breaks the class into two broad sections, derived from Standard Occupational Classification System codes:\n\nIn addition to these two main groups of creative people, the usually much smaller group of Bohemians is also included in the creative class.\n\nIn his 2002 study, Florida concluded that the creative class would be the leading force of growth in the economy expected to grow by over 10 million jobs in the next decade, which would in 2012 equal almost 40% of the population.\n\nThe social theories advanced by Florida have sparked much debate and discussion. Florida's work proposes that a new or emergent class—or demographic segment made up of knowledge workers, intellectuals and various types of artists—is an ascendant economic force, representing either a major shift away from traditional agriculture- or industry-based economies or a general restructuring into more complex economic hierarchies.\n\nThe theses developed by Florida in various publications were drawn from, among other sources, U.S. Census Bureau demographic data, focusing first on economic trends and shifts apparent in major U.S. cities, with later work expanding the focus internationally.\n\nA number of specific cities and regions (including California's Silicon Valley, Boston's Route 128, The Triangle in North Carolina, Austin, Seattle, Bangalore, Dublin and Sweden) have come to be identified with these economic trends. In Florida's publications, the same places are also associated with large Creative Class populations.\n\nFlorida argues that the creative class is socially relevant because of its members' ability to spur regional economic growth through innovation (2002).\n\nWalter Grünzweig, professor for American Studies at Technical University of Dortmund, has shown that the origin of the term “creative class” does not lie with Florida, but instead goes back to a passage in Ralph Waldo Emerson's essay \"Power\" in his collection \"The Conduct of Life\" (1860).\n\nFlorida says that the creative class is a class of workers whose job is to create meaningful new forms (2002). It is composed of scientists and engineers, university professors, poets and architects, and also includes \"people in design, education, arts, music and entertainment, whose economic function is to create new ideas, new technology and/or creative content\" (Florida, 2002, p. 8). The designs of this group are seen as broadly transferable and useful. Another sector of the Creative Class includes positions that are knowledge intensive; these usually require a high degree of formal education (Florida, 2002). Examples of workers in this sector are health professionals and business managers, who are considered part of the sub-group called Creative Professionals. Their primary job is to think and create new approaches to problems. Creativity is becoming more valued in today's global society. Employers see creativity as a channel for self-expression and job satisfaction in their employees. About 38.3 million Americans and 30 percent of the American workforce identify themselves with the creative class. This number has increased by more than 10 percent in the past 20 years.\n\nThe creative class is also known for its departure from traditional workplace attire and behavior. Members of the creative class may set their own hours and dress codes in the workplace, often reverting to more relaxed, casual attire instead of business suits and ties. Creative class members may work for themselves and set their own hours, no longer sticking to the 9–5 standard. Independence is also highly regarded among the creative class and expected in the workplace (Florida, 2002).\n\nThe Creative Class is not a class of workers among many, but a group believed to bring economic growth to countries that can attract its members. The economic benefits conferred by the Creative Class include outcomes in new ideas, high-tech industry and regional growth. Even though the Creative Class has been around for centuries, the U.S. was the first large country to have a Creative Class dealing with information technology, in the 1960s and 1970s. In the 1960s less than five percent of the U.S. population was part of the Creative Class, a number that has risen to 26 percent. Seeing that having a strong Creative Class is vital in today's global economy, Europe is now almost equal with America's numbers for this group. Inter-city competition to attract members of the Creative Class has developed.\n\nFollowing an empirical study across 90 nations, Rindermann et al. (2009) argued that high-ability classes (or smart classes) are responsible for economic growth, stable democratic development, and positively valued political aspects (government effectiveness, rule of law, and liberty).\n\nFlorida's use of census and economic data, presented in works such as \"The Rise of the Creative Class\" (2002), \"Cities and the Creative Class\" (2004), and \"The Flight of the Creative Class\" (2007), as well as \"Bobos in Paradise\" by David Brooks (whose \"bobos\" roughly correspond to Florida's creative class), and NEO Power by Ross Honeywill (whose NEOs deliver a more sophisticated level of evidence), has shown that cities which attract and retain creative residents prosper, while those that do not stagnate. This research has gained traction in the business community, as well as among politicians and urban planners. Florida and other Creative Class theorists have been invited to meetings of the National Conference of Mayors and numerous economic development committees, such the Denver mayor's Task Force on Creative Spaces and Michigan governor Jennifer Granholm's Cool Cities Initiative.\n\nIn \"Cities and the Creative Class\", Florida devotes several chapters to discussion of the three main prerequisites of creative cities (though there are many additional qualities which distinguish creative magnets). For a city to attract the Creative Class, he argues, it must possess \"the three 'T's\": Talent (a highly talented/educated/skilled population), Tolerance (a diverse community, which has a 'live and let live' ethos), and Technology (the technological infrastructure necessary to fuel an entrepreneurial culture). In \"Rise of the Creative Class\", Florida argues that members of the Creative Class value meritocracy, diversity and individuality, and look for these characteristics when they relocate (2002).\n\nAs Florida demonstrates in his books, Buffalo, New Orleans and Louisville are examples of cities which have tried to attract the Creative Class but, in comparison to cities which better exemplify the \"three 'T's\", have failed. Creative Class workers have sought out cities that better accommodate their cultural, creative, and technological needs, such as Chapel Hill, San Francisco, Washington, D.C., Austin, Seattle, Toronto, Ontario and Portland, Oregon. Florida also notes that Lexington and Milwaukee, Wisconsin have the ingredients to be a \"leading city in a new economy\".\n\nThe \"Creativity Index\" is another tool that Florida uses to describe how members of the Creative Class are attracted to a city. The Creativity Index includes four elements: \"the Creative Class share of the workforce; innovation, measured as patents per capita; high tech industry, using the Milken Institute's widely accepted Tech Pole Index…; and diversity, measured by the Gay Index, a reasonable proxy for an area's openness\" (2002, pp. 244–5). Using this index, Florida rates and ranks cities in terms of innovative high-tech centers, with San Francisco being the highest ranked (2002).\n\nFlorida and others have found a strong correlation between those cities and states that provide a more tolerant atmosphere toward culturally unconventional people, such as gays, artists, and musicians (exemplified by Florida's \"Gay Index\" and \"Bohemian Index\" developed in \"The Rise of the Creative Class\"), and the numbers of Creative Class workers that live and move there (2002).\n\nResearch involving the preferences and values of this new socioeconomic class has shown that where people choose to live can no longer be predicted according to conventional industrial theories (such as \"people will go to where the jobs/factories are\"). Creative workers are no longer bound by physical products, rather working with intellectual products. Their migration to metropolitan urban areas where creative work is available is more due to the attraction of leisure life and community rather than actual work. Although the Creative Class works towards the globalization of progressive and innovative ideas and products, they can also be considered to value local community and local autonomy. Sociologists and urban theorists have noted a gradual and broad shift of values over the past decade. Creative workers are looking for cultural, social, and technological climates in which they feel they can best \"be themselves\".\n\n\"The main assumption underlying this approach is that creative workers seek creative outlets in all aspects of their lives and therefore migrate to cities that actively support their preferred lifestyles\" (Donegan et al., 2008, p. 181).\n\nEach year Florida and the Martin Prosperity Institute release the Global Creativity Index, an international study of nations, ranking countries on the 3Ts of economic development - talent, technology, and tolerance. \"The GCI is a broad-based measure for advanced economic growth and sustainable prosperity based on the 3Ts of economic development - talent, technology, and tolerance. It rates and ranks 139 nations worldwide on each of these dimensions and on our overall measure of creativity and prosperity\" (Florida et al., 2015). The GCI takes into account the diversity of geographical locations noting their openness as the means for progressive ideas to prosper. \"Tolerance and openness to diversity is part and parcel of the broad cultural shift toward post-materialist values... Tolerance—or, broadly speaking openness to diversity—provides an additional source of economic advantage that works alongside technology and talent\" (Florida, 2012, p. 233). Diversity allows these locations to attract creative individuals and therefore stimulate economic growth. The findings from the 2015 GCI measured 139 countries on their creativity and prosperity. Ranked number one on the 2015 GCI is Australia.\n\nShare of Gross National Product spent on Research and Development is constantly raising at world level. Creative activities are growing at a fast pace in most advanced countries. 60% of the products that will be sold in 2030 do not yet exist. Repetitive works are being robotized. The whole world is becoming a \"Creational Society\".\n\nThe diverse and individualistic lifestyles enjoyed by the Creative Class involve active participation in a variety of experiential activities. Florida (2002) uses the term \"Street Level Culture\" to define this kind of stimulation. Street Level Culture may include a \"teeming blend of cafes, sidewalk musicians, and small galleries and bistros, where it is hard to draw the line between participant and observer, or between creativity and its creators\" (p. 166). Members of the Creative Class enjoy a wide variety of activities (e.g., traveling, antique shopping, bike riding, and running) that highlight the collective interest in being participants and not spectators (Florida, 2002).\n\nNumerous studies have found fault with the logic or empirical claims of Florida's Creative Class theory. This body of critical empirical research demonstrates how the Creative Class thesis, and the associated creative city policy prescriptions, in fact exacerbate social and economic inequalities in cities in North America, Europe, Australia, and Asia. Jamie Peck argues that the Creative Class theory offers no causal mechanism and suffers from circular logic. John Montgomery writes that \"what Florida has devised is a set of indices which simply mirror more fundamental truths about creative milieux or dynamic cities.\" Montgomery also disagrees with the cities that Florida designates as most creative, writing that London, not Manchester and Leicester, should be one of the top in the U.K. A critique of Florida's research and theoretical framework has been developed by Matteo Pasquinelli (2006) in the context of Italian Operaismo.\n\nScholars in the disciplines of economics, geography, sociology, and related social sciences have challenged Florida's conception of the \"creative class\", particularly for the perceived fuzziness of the concept and the lack of analytical precision. A number of studies have found problems with Florida's statistical indices. Hoyman and Faricy, using Florida's own indices, find no statistical evidence that cities with higher proportions of Creative Class workers correlated with any type of economic growth from 1990–2004. By using metropolitan areas as the unit of analysis, the high degree of socio-spatial variation across the metropolitan region is ignored. Studies and popular accounts have questioned whether the creative class is more likely to live in the homogenous, low-density suburban periphery.\n\nSocial scientists have also identified problems with the occupational composition of the creative class. Economic geographer Stefan Kratke challenges the inclusion of financial and real estate professionals within the creative class on two accounts: 1) these individuals played a decisive role as the \"dealer class\" in the ongoing financial crises, and therefore cannot be considered a basis for sustainable urban and regional economic growth; and 2) the financial and real estate industries (especially in headquarter cities) are economically significant regional/urban players only because they are largely \"reliant on inflows of wealth created by productive activities in other regions.\" Moreover, Kratke argues that the \"political class\" is also ill-suited to be included within creative class, as they are, in many cases, implicated in neoliberal financial deregulation and the rise in highly unstable urban and regional growth regimes evident through real estate bubbles across the United States and in other countries. In \"Urban Development and the Politics of the Creative Class\", Ann Markusen argues that workers qualified as being in the Creative Class have no concept of group identity, nor are they in occupations that are inherently creative. Markusen also notes that the definition of the Creative Class is based largely on educational attainment, suggesting that Florida's indices become insignificant after controlling for education. Markusen argues that Florida \"does not seem to understand the nature of the occupational statistics he uses\" and calls for the major occupational groups to be disaggregated. She questions the inclusion of particular occupations within these broad categories such as claim adjusters, funeral directors, tax collectors, yet argues that \"[t]hese occupations may indeed be creative, but so too are airplane pilots, ship engineers, millwrights, and tailors – all of whom are uncreative in Florida's tally.\" Moreover, it is questioned whether human creativity can be conflated with education since \"[p]eople at all levels of education exercise considerable inventiveness.\"\n\nResearch shows that economic growth is experienced when the significance of scientifically/technologically and artistically creative workers is taken into account, but this macro-level conclusion can be drawn without Florida's creative class theory, which provides more of an \"affirmation of contemporary class relations.\" Other scholars have criticized the very basis for Florida's definition of \"creativity\" which many argue is conceived of narrowly and is only valued for the potential for financial and economic growth. Studies have too questioned Florida's argument that jobs and economic growth follow the creative class, and the migration patterns of the creative class have been challenged. Rather than validating Florida's causal logic that attracting the creative class will lead to economic growth, empirical research shows that successful regions pull and maintain human capital.\n\nThe creative class thesis—and Richard Florida himself—have been criticized for what appears to be a change in Florida's prognosis for America's ailing Rust Belt cities. Florida's message was so quickly and enthusiastically adopted by cities because he argued that any city had the potential to become a vibrant, creative city with the right infrastructure investments, policies, and consulting advice. A 2009 article, \"The Ruse of the Creative Class\", questions Florida's costly speaking engagements in struggling industrial cities in which he offered optimistic prognoses—and his more recent pronouncements that many American cities may never be saved in the wake of the Great Recession. The creative class thesis has also drawn criticisms for relying on inner city property development, gentrification, and urban labor markets reliant on low-wage service workers, particularly in the hospitality industry. Florida has called for service workers' wages to rise.\n\nCreative Class Struggle, a Toronto-based collective, has brought these criticisms outside academic circles, challenging Florida's Creative Class theories as well as their widespread adoption into urban policy. The group manages an online clearinghouse for information about creative city strategies and policies, publishes a newsletter and other materials, and works to engage the media and public in critical discussion. In June 2009, Creative Class Struggle and art magazine \"Fuse\" organized a public forum in Toronto to debate these issues.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46216210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46216210", "title": "Dargin writing", "text": "Dargin writing\n\nDargin writing is a written form of communication representing the North East Caucasian Dargin language. This language has approximately 439,000 speakers, most of whom live in the Russian republic of Dagestan. Additionally, Darlin writing is used in the Russian Republics of Kalmykia, Khantia-Mansia, and Chechnya, as well as nearby countries of Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan,\nTurkey, Turkmenistan, Ukraine, and Uzbekistan. \n\nThe Arabic alphabet was adapted as the Dargin phonetics alphabet in 1920, but it was poorly adapted to the sounds of the Ukrainian language. So in 1928, as part of the All-Union project on Romanization, the Latin-based alphabet was adopted for Dargin. In the same year, the first primer in this alphabet was published (cupanov r. Nuşala ʐaꝗ-sawet. Mәħәc-qala, 1928). Initially the Dargin Romanized alphabet had no capital letters. After the reform of 1932 capital letters were introduced, some Latin letters were excluded and the alphabet took the form shown in the table:\nThe Cyrillic alphabet was adopted in 1938. In the 1960s, the letter ПI, пI was added.\n\n"}
{"id": "51541096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51541096", "title": "Disability in ancient Rome", "text": "Disability in ancient Rome\n\nAncient Romans with disabilities were recorded in the personal, medical, and legal writing of the period. While some people with disabilities were sought as slaves, others with disabilities that are now recognized by modern medicine were not considered disabled. Some disabilities were deemed more acceptable than others. Small, scattered medical references contain the only direct acknowledgments of disability in ancient Rome.\n\nSoranus of Ephesus (a Methodic doctor who worked in Rome) wrote in his extant treatise on gynaecology that only certain children were worth raising, listing the various tests one could perform on a child to identify disabilities which might render them not worthy. The treatise also states that the physical and mental fitness of a midwife or wet nurse also needed to be assessed by parents.\n\nThe later Roman physician Galen also mentioned the deficiencies of people with disabilities in his works on anatomy, claiming that both physical and mental handicaps resulted from physical imbalances of the four humors. As such, he held to the traditional triad of melancholy, mania, and phrenitis as the three categories of mental disorder.\n\nRoman doctors separated mental disorders into two categories: those that could be cured, and those that were not of the body. Amongst the latter were addictions, most commonly \"vinolentia\" (alcoholism).\n\nRoman doctors had a variety of terms to describe different degrees of optical impairment. Aulus Cornelius Celsus in his treatise \"On Medicine\" (\"De Medicina)\", devoted a chapter to the subject of common eye infections, disease, problems, and their cures.\n\nThe Twelve Tables included a law that said disabled or deformed children should be put to death, usually by stoning. They also stipulated that if a free person or a slave is injured and subsequently disabled by an individual, the injurer has to pay a certain amount of money or is punished by being disfigured in a similar fashion.\n\nIn addition, Dionysius of Halicarnassus wrote that the city's founder Romulus required children who were born disabled to be exposed on a hillside. Historians think that this was a fairly common practice due to a believed high number of congenital defects due to the prevalence of poor nutrition, incest, and disease. As time passed however, enforcement of this law became less and less common until eventually in the third century it was reversed by a new law requiring parents to take care of infants who were disabled.\n\nIn \"Commentarii de Bello Gallico\", Julius Caesar mentions that the Gauls commonly maimed his centurions, usually by blinding them, mentioning that four centurions out of a cohort were blinded. Soldiers disabled in such circumstances were given a stipend by the state once they retired.\n\nMany late period Emperors, such as Nero or Caligula, are known to have used disfigurement or disablement as punishments for legal infractions, as well as personal attacks.\n\nBlindness or partial blindness was highly regarded in the Roman psychemany individuals became famous after losing an eye. Notably, slaves would sometimes enter gladiatorial matches with a patch over a functioning eye, though historians disagree on whether this was in reference to the mythical cyclops or to make the gladiator appear more experienced. It is also known that many mythological figures, as well as known historical individuals, were thought by the Romans to have been blinded in return for favors from their gods. Such gifts varied from foresight to talent in singing. The language of the day also made note of those who were fully blind, \"caecus\", and those who were partially sighted, \"luscus\". Some blind children became beggars.\n\nDisabilities from injuries received while in the military were seen as marks of honor as opposed to simple disfigurements, with injuries to the eyes appearing most frequently in both common soldiers and famous personalities such as Hannibal. Many Roman writers, such as Seneca the Younger, would write about the physical failures of prominent Roman civilians who had earned no such honor and that they wished to lampoon. Roman leaders typically had themselves depicted as physically perfect in statues and coinage. Pliny describes a wealthy but disabled man as being worthy of pity.\n\nDeformed slaves were so popular that Plutarch writes about the different kinds of deformations on display at the Monster Markets. It was recorded that many Roman women kept hunchbacks as pets; it was also recorded that hunchbacks appeared in the court of Caligula.\n\nIndividuals with spinal deformities were fairly common in public life, and in fact hunchbacks were in some places considered to be a source of luck for others. Further, they were occasionally known to rise to stations of eminent advisors, such as Nero's advisor Vatinius. \n\nThat the god Vulcan was lame yet worked as a smith has led many historians to believe that disabled Romans similarly specialized to accommodate their injuries but were not outcast.\n\n"}
{"id": "39747894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39747894", "title": "Doping at the Asian Games", "text": "Doping at the Asian Games\n\nWhat follows is a list of all the athletes that have tested positive for a banned substance either during or before an Asian Games in which they competed. Any medals listed were revoked.\n\n"}
{"id": "29878300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29878300", "title": "Economic development incentive", "text": "Economic development incentive\n\nAn economic development incentive can be strictly defined as “cash or near-cash assistance provided on a discretionary basis to attract or retain business operations. In practice, however, it is a broadly used term denoting an array of benefits designed to promote new business activity or to encourage business or job retention. These benefits principally encompass tax and economic incentives provided by federal, state or local governmental bodies. Other entities, such as utilities and non-profits, can also make incentives available for these purposes. They accord the recipient, in some manner, a monetary benefit (i.e., tax incentives) or an in-kind benefit (e.g., state regulatory releases of environmental liability, municipal infrastructure improvements). Private enterprises, including individuals, are generally the ultimate beneficiary of economic development incentives. Depending on the incentive in question, other qualified parties are eligible to receive them, as in the case of municipalities, utilities, or economic development agencies.\n\nEconomic development incentives consist of two classes of benefits: (i) one mandatory or automatic and (ii) the other discretionary. The former classes of benefits generally comprise tax incentives, which are established by federal, state or local law, immediately triggered by a specified type of business activity. For example, a private enterprise automatically qualifies for a state sales and use tax exemption or rebate when it purchases manufacturing equipment. Discretionary incentives can consist of either tax or economic benefits and can be established by federal, state or local law, by policy of a public body or other entity, or by negotiation among transaction participants. Generally speaking, discretionary incentives consist of more complicated arrangements than automatic or mandatory incentives, and necessitate a private enterprise to solicit the incentive from, and to negotiate with, the public body or other entity conferring them.\n\nThe following illustrates economic development incentives made available to private enterprises or other recipients:\n\n• Industrial development bond financing, exempting interest from federal or state income taxes, for designated capital expenditures.\n\n• Federal or state new markets income tax credits for qualified capital investment for low-income communities or for low-income persons.\n\n• State or local taxable bond financing used to effect ad valorem property tax exemptions.\n\n• Tax increment financing, allocating all or a portion of new taxes (i.e., ad valorem property taxes, sales taxes) generated by projects or capital investment for the direct or indirect benefit of a private enterprise.\n\n• Federal or state job training grants funded to local governments or private enterprises for the training of new employees or the re-training of existing employees.\n\n• Refundable or non-refundable state income tax credits for job creation or retention, or capital investment, by private enterprises.\n\n• Enterprise or development zones, exempting all or a portion of certain taxes otherwise imposed on property or business activity within the zone from state or local taxes.\n\n• State and local low interest or forgivable loans made available to private enterprises financing capital investment.\n\n• State grants or subsidies by public bodies to private enterprises for new project development.\n\n• Local property transfers to private enterprises at below market or nominal consideration.\n\n• State and local grants for the rehabilitation of environmentally impacted sites (brownfields sites) funded to local governments or private enterprises.\n\n• Utility incentives provided by utilities or non-profits for capital investment.\n\n• Local property tax exemptions for construction or retrofitting of buildings to qualify for LEED certifications.\n\nA number of factors come into play in the adoption of economic development incentive programs by public bodies. This section summarizes certain of these considerations.\n\nPublic bodies can develop well-articulated strategies, guiding their adoption and implementation of economic development programs. For example, the federal government can offer tax credits, encouraging development of renewable energy sources as a national initiative. A state can promulgate economic development legislation as a tactical move, seeking to expand the presence of a particular business sector in its jurisdiction, while a municipality can adopt a special property tax incentive program oriented toward redevelopment of its central business district.\n\nAn uninformed observation about incentives could lead one to the conclusion that a jurisdiction or local community with a weak business and employment base tends to offer more favorable incentives than one with a strong business and employment base. Although this correlation exists in certain instances, it is by no means an accurate reflection in each case of the approach public bodies take in allocating incentives to private enterprises. For instance, a state with a strong business and employment base can leverage its financial position to offer incentive packages to a certain business class as a way to participate in an emerging national business sector. Similarly, a municipality with a weak business and employment base can be reticent to offer economic development incentives because of financial and political consequences. A municipality fitting this profile, however, could be receptive to providing incentives based on new project taxes, not otherwise available to it, generated by the recipient.\n\nThe level of competition among adjacent jurisdictions or local communities, or other entities (i.e., utilities) can impact the adoption and implementation of these programs. A state may legislate an aggressive incentive program to preempt adjacent states from luring inbound businesses to their jurisdictions. A local community may, however, offer economic development incentives merely as a defensive measure to maintain parity with adjacent communities.\n\nThe composition of a state’s or local community’s economic base can be a factor in the adoption of incentive programs. A state may offer attractive incentive packages to an under-represented business class as a way to diversify its economy. Similarly, a local community can orient its incentive policies toward particular businesses in an effort to counterbalance its reliance on one business sector (e.g., manufacturing).\n\nThe state and local tax structure of a jurisdiction can affect the availability of incentives in the jurisdiction A state may offer to private enterprises a variety of economic development incentives to offset a higher income or property tax regime. Conversely, a jurisdiction with a low tax structure can be less inclined to promulgate aggressive incentive programs to benefit private enterprises.\n\nA public body’s experience with an incentive program can impact its approach toward incentive arrangements. The prior experience with an insolvent company enrolled in a program can prompt a public body to adopt rigorous prequalification criteria as part of its incentive screening process. Likewise, the failure of a recipient to meet public body’s expectations about a project (e.g., employment) can prompt it to impose strict project commitments on new incentive recipients. Conversely, an incentive program with a successful track record of business expansion or retention can encourage the expansion of the program or the adoption of new incentive programs.\n\nDifferent constituencies affected by economic development policies can also influence tax incentive programs or arrangements. Taxpayers often use the courts as a vehicle to challenge tax incentives. Taxing districts constitute another pool of opponents to these programs. For instance, certain school districts not infrequently challenge tax incentive programs or arrangements because of a reduction or loss of their tax revenue allocations. Other public bodies can oppose tax incentives, as in the case of county tax authorities, because of their impact on taxing districts and public services.\n\nMany discretionary incentive programs require the recipient to meet an inducement test as one criterion to qualify for the incentive. Under this test, the recipient must demonstrate that the incentive in question has induced, on some basis, the targeted business activity. Depending on the program, it can consist on one end of the spectrum a stringent “but for test” used for tax exempt bond financing under federal tax law and frequently for many state taxable bond issue programs. On the other end of the spectrum, it can be a broad standard of conduct, demonstrating the recipients’ general intention to initiate the targeted business activity as a result of the incentive.\n\nA private enterprise seeking an incentive under a more stringent inducement test typically must obtain some governmental or other action authorizing the incentive, such as a resolution or ordinance, before it can make contractual arrangements for the incentivized activity. As a case in point, prior to waiving closing conditions to purchase real estate, or entering into binding vendor contracts for a new project, a private enterprise must receive a resolution or other governmental action, authorizing the incentive from the relevant public body to satisfy this test. Therefore, incentive programs which have more stringent inducement tests often create practical issues for a private enterprise seeking incentives. They necessitate careful management of the underlying business transaction and the incentive transaction, including milestone dates, to meet the legal requirements of the incentive and the business objectives of the recipient.\n\nState and local public bodies sometimes establish investment, employment or other project commitments, which must be met and maintained during a test period in exchange for discretionary incentives. Under these arrangements, the recipient must repay all or a portion of the benefit received, if it fails to meet or maintain the designated metric of performance during the test period. These recapture arrangements are commonly referred to as “clawbacks.” For example, if a recipient fails to create or maintain a minimum level of new positions during a specified test period, it may be required to repay a portion of the benefit based on a prearranged formula.\n\nIn addition, non-governmental entities, such as utilities, can incorporate clawback provisions as part of their incentive packages. A utility offering an in-kind benefit to a private enterprise, such as the installation of on-site energy infrastructure improvements, can stipulate that the project must reach and maintain certain energy usage thresholds as a means for the utility to recover its investment. If the recipient fails to meet these requirements, the utility can assess a charge based on a prearranged formula analogous to a governmental clawback.\n\nEconomic development incentives have come under close scrutiny from many quarters. They question the economic benefit to public bodies and local communities, and the wisdom of the public policies, promoting them. Some suggest that most incentives are relatively modest in relation to the incentivized business activity and, therefore, have no demonstrative impact on the recipient’s decision making. As a corollary, some argue economic development incentives merely facilitate the relocation of a private enterprise’s business or employment from one venue to another venue, and do not foster any new meaningful business activity. Under this line of reasoning, a recipient can relocate essentially the same operation from one community to another community in a jurisdiction by taking advantage of the other community’s ad valorem property tax incentive program. The incentive, in effect, cannibalizes the public resources of the jurisdiction at the expense of affected taxing districts.\n\nSome commentators have also contended that these programs contribute to the corruption of public officials in their administration as a basis to discredit them. The media have publicized flagrant conduct by some companies, and the mismanagement by certain public bodies, under these programs as a repudiation of economic development incentives.\n\nNegative commentary about economic development incentives can result in sweeping generalizations, without distinguishing the incentives used, the public policy goals sought, or the transaction participants involved. Federal, state and local governmental bodies by their nature have individual agendas in adoption of economic development programs, although they may be complementary. For instance, a state may promulgate legislation, mindful of its economic base as a whole, while regional development consortiums and local public bodies primarily focus their attention on more local considerations.\n\nEconomic development incentives vary in purpose and by type. For instance, a utility incentive designed to foster economic development in a local community has distinctive characteristics and goals from an ad valorem property tax incentive used to encourage redevelopment of blighted areas in that community. Similarly, state tax incentives directed toward capital investment are different from state income tax credits based on employment.\n\nCertain commentators view business operations or facilities as fungible objects, easily portable from one jurisdiction or community to another. Business relocations can, in fact, require significant investment, resources and personnel for planning and implementation. They can be disruptive to the business and undermine morale of employees, if not properly managed. Therefore, such decisions are not made lightly by businesses, irrespective of the availability of incentives to facilitate them.\n\nIn addition, economic development incentives should not be viewed as merely promoting static business activity, but as structures promoting and capturing organic growth of the recipient at the project level and indirectly promoting growth of related businesses. Public officials no doubt have this expectation in mind by authorizing economic development programs, even in business and employment retention incentives.\n\nCritics of these programs also do not fully appreciate the increasing reliance of the private sector in today’s business environment on economic development incentives for business expansion or retention. Incentive packages can constitute a meaningful contribution toward project investment. Consequently, business enterprises with incentive experience, frequently will include incentives as part of project site selection checklists and will treat them as relevant budget line items. As a case in point, a recipient relies on incentives to offset higher development or operation costs (i.e., site or labor costs) in its selection of a location for a new project. The emergence of public-private partnerships reflects the importance that the private enterprises place on the availability of economic development incentives under these initiatives.\n\nFurthermore, the sporadic occurrence of mismanagement or misuse of these programs by either public officials or private enterprises should not be used to undermine their efficacy to promote economic development as a whole. The inclusion of tighter prequalification criteria and effective control and other measures in economic development transactions by public bodies and other sponsors should mitigate many of these anomalies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12444488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12444488", "title": "Gypsies Are Found Near Heaven", "text": "Gypsies Are Found Near Heaven\n\nGypsies Are Found Near Heaven (, lit. \"The gypsy camp goes to heaven\"; also known as Queen of the Gypsies) is a 1975 Soviet romantic drama film by Emil Loteanu, loosely based on short stories (\"Makar Chudra\" and \"Old Izergil\") by Maxim Gorky. Set in early 20th century Austria-Hungary, the film tells a love story between the gypsy girl Rada and the horse thief Zobar of Gorky's early 1892 short story \"Makar Chudra\" ().\n\nOne of the songs near the introduction of the film had become popular on YouTube as the \"Gypsy Song\".\n\nIt was the most attended movie in the Soviet Union in 1976, with 64.9 million tickets sold.\n\nThe film takes place in the beginning of the 20th century in a gypsy camp on the Tisza river in the Zakarpattia region on the outskirts of the Austro-Hungarian Empire.\n\nTwo young proud gypsies Loiko (Grigore Grigoriu) and Rada (Svetlana Toma) fall in love but believe that family life is a ball and chain that would fetter their independence. The first time Loiko meets Rada is when he becomes wounded and she finds him and heals him. Then the horse thief and the beauty meet again when Loiko accompanies Bucha (Borislav Brondukov) from Rada's gypsy camp and comes into the camp itself, which is headed by old Nur (Mikhail Shishkov).\n\nLocal middle-aged landowner-nobleman Antol Siladi (Ion Sandri Scurea) also falls in love with Rada whom he meets during his walks through the city, but she rejects him in full view of her camp and the unfortunate amorous gentleman curses the young gypsy. The bold and lucky horse thief Loiko successfully steals a white mare as Rada wishes. However he incurs the wrath of the authorities who are preparing a raid in his encampment, and the proud and beautiful sister of Loiko – Rusalina (Nelli Volshaninova) makes resistance attempts. Loiko's father finally gives his son over to the gendarmes, who sent his friend Talimon (Pavel Andrejchenko) shortly before that to the master Balint (Vasyl Symchych) for the purpose of debt collection. Unfortunately Balint says that Loiko promised to come to the estate as it was previously understood, and his servant stabs the gypsy with forks in the stables.\n\nMeanwhile local authorities sentence Loiko to death but nevertheless Loiko manages to escape his penalty although he ends up losing his friend Bubulia (Sergiu Finiti) who comes to his aid. The horse thief catches up with Rada's gypsy camp and presents the gypsy mare to her. Rada has fun with Loiko on the river bank and then spends the night with him during which she offers him grape juice.\n\nAt the end of the film Loiko, despite the gloomy predictions of the old gypsy healer comes accompanied by his old friend Aralambi (Nikolai Volshaninov) into Rada's camp and asks his blacksmith friend Makar Choudhra (Barasbi Mulayev) to act as an advocate of the wedding. Then, he completes his girlfriend's previous condition of their wedding - to kneel (which is humiliation for the Roma) in front of her with all encampment and then kills Rada and stands in front of her body on his knees. Father of Rada – the old soldier Danilo (Vsevolod Gavrilov) who was present at his daughter's murder, kills Loiko with a knife.\n\n\nThe film skillfully captures music and dancing. Songs such as \"Malyarkitsa\", \"Dyves and rat\", \"Apple\", \"Nane tsoha\" and others which were previously sung in the 1930s were chosen by composer Eugene Doga and sung anew by Roma theater performers from the Romen Theatre. Roma cameos in the film were played by actors of that theater and of the Moldavian film studio, and the role of the mayor and his entourage - the actors of the Lithuanian Film Studios because the episodes were filmed in the city of Vilnius and Kaunas, as the old architecture of these cities sometimes very similar to the Bessarabia town.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10837666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10837666", "title": "Irish Red Cross", "text": "Irish Red Cross\n\nThe Irish Red Cross Society was formally established by nurse Elizabeth O'Herrin of Dublin City Hospital on 1 July 1939 under the terms of the Red Cross Act 1938. Its constitution is based on the Geneva Conventions of 1949, their additional Protocols of 1977 and 2005 (the Geneva Conventions), to which Ireland is a party, Acts of the Oireachtas and relevant provisions of the international Red Cross and Red Crescent Movement.\n\nThe society has been supported by the Irish Department of Defence and it receives €739,000 p.a. from them. In addition to that, the Department of Defence gives €130,000 annually to the International Committee of the Red Cross. In the past few years the organisation has gone through significant management and operational changes. In 2011 a new Secretary General was appointed together with a new senior management team.\n\nFormerly the Irish White Cross had worked in the Irish Free State in 1921–28.\n\nThe society is organised on a voluntary basis. In Ireland, its activities include mountain rescue, first aid education of the public, the provision of first aid and ambulance services at public events, as well as other community services including therapeutic hand care for the elderly and training of carers. Outside Ireland, the society provides relief and humanitarian services in response to natural disasters and in regions of conflict.\n\nThe headquarters of the Irish Red Cross is located at 16 Merrion Square North, Dublin 2. The society is a member of the International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies.\n\nThe firstaid services section of the society is organised into regions, areas, branches and units for command and administration purposes.\n\nThere are four regions in the country each with a Regional Director of Units who is responsible for co-ordination of the units in their region through their Area Directors of Units.\n\nThere are 28 areas in the Irish Red Cross (The Red Cross in Northern Ireland is part of the British Red Cross). Areas are normally divided up to match county borders i.e. the Clare Red Cross area has the same geographical bounders as county Clare itself. In this way the Red Cross differs from other organisations like the Civil Defence which is divided according to local council areas. The only exception to this being with Red Cross Areas in Dublin, they are aligned to local council areas due to the population of the city and outlying areas, this meaning there are four Red Cross Areas in Dublin.\n\nEach area is commanded and administered by an \"Area Director of Units\" shortened normally to \"ADU\". This person is appointed for a three-year term by the Central Council. The Person however is a Volunteer and receives no payment for his/her work as are all person involved in the uniformed section, the person will normally have been a volunteer for a number of years and risen through the ranks. The ADU will normally appoint a deputy director of units (DADU) and a number of assistant area directors (AADU) to assist him. The DADU is second in command of the area and may take responsibility for a particular duty (e.g. Ambulance cover on public duties). The AADU's will normally have charge over a particular section within the area (e.g. cadet members) or a particular responsibility (e.g. equipment and training)\n\nThe ADU is assisted by the Area Committee, whose members are elected from the branch committees in the area each year at an A.G.M.\n\nEach Area will have a number of branches in it, the number varying according to area. The branch is run by a committee of its own\nmembers, also elected at an A.G.M. each year.\n\nEach Branch has a number of units in it the number again varying according to the branch. The unit is the main training group within that area, there may for example normally be only one unit in a village or group of village depending on population, whereas a city may have a number of units due to the population. The Unit is commanded and administered by the \"Unit Officer\" a person appointed by the ADU. The appointment last for one year but the person may be re-appointed continually. The Unit Officer is assisted by a \"Sub-Unit Officer\" and by \"Assistant Unit Officers\" also appointed by the ADU. The unit is where all members of the IRC would training and also where public first aid courses would be run from. Depending on the size of the Branch there may be different units for different age groups.\n\nPersons may join the Irish Red Cross from 5 years of age, there is no maximum age. The Age profiles are broken as follows:\n\nNot all areas currently have units for the youngest age range as they area a new inclusion, within them very basic \"First Aid\" is taught, things such as how to call an ambulance to putting on a plaster, progressing to higher levels as the member grows older.\n\nThe Ranks in the IRC are in descending order:\n\nAll the Ranks (bar the novice member) are on navy epaulets, worn on the shoulders for the working uniform.\n\nThe Irish Red Cross has a fleet of both road and off-road ambulances in Ireland. It also has specialised Support vehicles, Command vehicles, mountain bikes, search dogs and a boat. The vehicles in the Area depending on locally need and decided upon by the ADU. These Fleets along with all IRC members provide a backup to the ambulance service in case of major emergency.\n\nThe IRC offers members of the public a number of courses. In particular Practical First Aid and Occupational First Aid, as well as skin camouflage and hand care. The Irish Red Cross is a provider of First Aid Certification in Republic of Ireland. As a PHECC training institute it also offers the Cardiac First Response (C.F.R.) course.\n\nIf a person is a member of the Red Cross they can go on to Complete other courses such as:\n\n\nHowever a member while encouraged to do some of these courses need not and can help the society by other means, such as fundraising activities, relief work or other areas.\n\nThe Irish Red Cross provides ambulance and medical cover at a large amount of public events and functions the year round and across Ireland, including events such as concerts, motor sport events, equestrian events, rugby, soccer and GAA matches. While the events organizers are normally charged a fee, this money however does not go to the people on duty but rather to help fund the activities of the local branch.\n\nThe Irish Red Cross also provides relief services locally, nationally and internationally. Locally services range from \"meals on wheels\" to home visits and transport of the elderly, to nationally disaster relief such as in the wake of the flooding in Ireland in 2009. Internationally the IRC will collect donations for major relief works such as the 2010 Haiti earthquake, and will also send members abroad to assist with relief works.\n\nThe Irish Red Cross provide a range of community services and activities. These include Therapeutic Hand Care Service, Skin camouflage service, Babysitting course, Helping You to Care Course, First Aid Training and an Entertainment Troupe Service.\n\nSection 4 of the 1938 Act created the offence of using \"for the purpose of trade or business or any other purpose whatsoever \" a \".. heraldic emblem of the red cross on a white ground formed by reversing the Federal colours of Switzerland or any emblem closely resembling such heraldic emblem\" without the express permission of the Minister for Defence.\n\nIn 2009, some financial irregularities were revealed anonymously on an anonymous blog by a whistleblower, Noel Wardick, who was head of the international department. The Irish Red Cross sought court orders to obtain Mr Wardick's identity from UPC and Google, which were granted. Wardick was dismissed. Wardick had revealed that €162,000 collected locally for the 2004 Asian tsunami had remained unspent in a bank account years after the event.\n\nIn 2010, an internal enquiry into Wardick's allegations found other such bank accounts, and proposals to overhaul the IRC's management were discussed in the Dáil on 15 December. Questions were answered by Tony Killeen, then the Minister of Defence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20040246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20040246", "title": "Japanese expatriates in the Netherlands", "text": "Japanese expatriates in the Netherlands\n\nJapanese people in the Netherlands include expatriates from Japan and their descendants, as well as Dutch citizens of Japanese ancestry.\n\nAs of 2009, there were 7,524 persons of Japanese origin living in the Netherlands, according to the figures of the Statistics Netherlands office. In general, they are transient foreign residents employed by Japanese companies.\n\nAccording to a 1996 survey, 80% of Japanese in the Netherlands consisted of Japanese company employees and their families. Another 10% were Japanese civil servants on overseas postings, researchers, and students. The remainder were long-term residents, largely Japanese women married to Dutch men. Most live in Amsterdam. However, there are also about 150 living in Maastricht, mostly employees of Mitsubishi and their spouses and children.\n\nStatistics Netherlands' 2009 figures with regards to persons of Japanese background show:\nFor a total of 7,524 persons. This represented growth of about 2.4% over the previous year's total, and about 18% over the total for 1996, the earliest year for which statistics are made available. However, they still form only a minute proportion, little over two-tenths of a percent, of all persons of foreign background in the Netherlands.\n\nThe workplace is one of the most important sites of cross-cultural encounters for Japanese working in the Netherlands. Japanese company offices in the Netherlands are generally small in size, numbering less than 100 employees. The decision-making processes in Japanese and Dutch corporate cultures are superficially similar, both relying on achieving consensus from stakeholders and subordinates rather than devolving decision-making authority to a single person. The need for Japanese expatriate middle-managers to refer plans back to headquarters in Japan, in addition to the emphasis on collective responsibility for the results of plans agreed to by consensus, means that decision-making in Japanese companies proceeds more slowly than in Dutch companies. Nevertheless, Dutch employees in Japanese companies perceive the decision-making process as achieving better and more thorough results despite its slow pace.\n\nJapanese expatriate employees in the Netherlands put in longer hours than local employees. Dutch employees feel that their Japanese superiors and colleagues put in such long hours because they use their time inefficiently; furthermore, they feel little pressure to adopt those same working hours, asserting that the Japanese managers simply receive more benefits and salary in line with their increased responsibility. However, their Japanese colleagues resent this attitude, feeling that Dutch colleagues \"leave work undone on their desk and go home\", leaving it for the late-working Japanese to complete. Japanese managers find they have to delineate job requirements and responsibilities more explicitly for Dutch employees than they would for Japanese employees in Japan, due to the local cultural emphasis on individual responsibility above collective responsibility.\n\nAs of 2000, when eating outside the home, Japanese expatriates in the Netherlands most commonly patronise Chinese restaurants (29% of meals eaten out); Japanese restaurants run a close second at 25%, Italian restaurants at 19%, and French restaurants at 10%. However, they deride the Japanese restaurants of the Netherlands as low-quality and expensive. They also cook Japanese food at home, though in a pattern different from that in Japan; they consume less fish and more meat dishes (especially \"nikujaga\"), and often have to find substitutes for preferred vegetables which are unavailable locally. Preparing Japanese food is often viewed as troublesome due to these limitations, and many Japanese wives express that they only prepare such dishes because their husbands prefer them; when the husbands are away, they cook Western-style food instead. However, the community in Amsterdam at least have some Japanese-style grocery stores available locally. For the community in Maastricht, fewer such options are available; many cross the border to Germany to do their shopping in Düsseldorf and take advantage of the many specialised grocery shops which have popped up to serve the city's significant Japanese community, or band together and order groceries—especially fish prepared in the Japanese style—to be shipped down from Amsterdam. Another common option is to grow herb seasonings, especially garland chrysanthemum, perilla, and cryptotaenia, in one's own back garden.\n\nAmsterdam has one Japanese-medium day school, The Japanese School of Amsterdam. There is also the Japanese School of Rotterdam.\n\nThe Saturday Japanese supplementary schools in the Netherlands include: Japanese Saturday School Amsterdam (JSSA; アムステルダム日本語補習授業校 \"Amusuterdamu Nihongo Hoshū Jugyō Kō\"), The Hague-Rotterdam Japanese Saturday School (ハーグ・ロッテルダム日本語補習授業校 \"Hāgu Rotterudamu Nihongo Hoshū Jugyō Kō\") in Rotterdam, Stichting the Japanese School of Tilburg (ティルブルグ日本語補習授業校 \"Tiruburugu Nihongo Hoshū Jugyō Kō\"), and Stichting Maastricht Japanese Supplementary School (ティルブルグ日本語補習授業校 \"Tiruburugu Nihongo Hoshū Jugyō Kō\").\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21830639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21830639", "title": "Juan Ramon Sanchez", "text": "Juan Ramon Sanchez\n\nJuan Ramon Sanchez (born 1955) is the Chief United States District Judge of the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania.\n\nBorn in Vega Baja, Puerto Rico, Sanchez received a Bachelor of Arts degree from City College of New York in 1978 and a Juris Doctor from the University of Pennsylvania Law School in 1981. He was a Staff attorney of Legal Aid of Chester County, Pennsylvania, from 1981 to 1983. He was in private practice in West Chester, Pennsylvania, from 1983 to 1984, and was then an attorney for the County of Chester Public Defender's Office from 1984 to 1997. He was a judge on the Court of Common Pleas for Chester County from 1998 to 2004.\n\nOn November 25, 2003, Sanchez was nominated by President George W. Bush to a seat on the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Pennsylvania vacated by Jay Waldman. Sanchez was confirmed by the United States Senate on June 23, 2004, and received his commission on June 24, 2004.\n\nOn August 1, 2018, Sanchez became the first Latino chief judge of the Eastern District of Pennsylvania, due to the announced retirement of Lawrence F. Stengel.\n"}
{"id": "9447608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9447608", "title": "Judeo-Yemeni Arabic", "text": "Judeo-Yemeni Arabic\n\nJudeo-Yemeni Arabic (also known as Judeo-Yemeni and Yemenite Judeo-Arabic) is a variety of Arabic spoken by Jews living or formerly living in Yemen. The language is quite different from mainstream Yemeni Arabic, and is written in the Hebrew alphabet. The cities of Sana'a, Aden, al-Bayda, and Habban District and the villages in their districts each have (or had) their own dialect.\n\nThe vast majority of Yemenite Jews have relocated to Israel and have shifted to Modern Hebrew as their first language. In 1995, Israel was home to 50,000 speakers of Judeo-Yemeni in 1995, while 1,000 remained in Yemen. According to Yemeni rabbi al-Marhabi, most of these have since left for the United States. , fewer than 300 Jews were believed to remain in Yemen.\n\nJudeo-Arabic languages\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58909465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58909465", "title": "Lamont Stephenson", "text": "Lamont Stephenson\n\nLamont Stephenson (born April 2, 1975) is an American criminal who was added to the FBI Ten Most Wanted Fugitives list on October 11, 2018. He is wanted for the murder of his fiancee, Olga Dejesus, in Newark, New Jersey in October of 2014. The FBI is offering a reward of $100,000 for his capture.\n"}
{"id": "48910159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48910159", "title": "Line of succession to the former Egyptian throne", "text": "Line of succession to the former Egyptian throne\n\nUnder the Muhammad Ali dynasty, the line of succession to the former Egyptian throne was subject to a number of changes during its history. From its founding in 1805 until 1866, the dynasty followed the imperial Ottoman practice of agnatic seniority, whereby the eldest male in any generation would succeed to the throne. In 1866, however, the then Khedive of Egypt Isma'il Pasha obtained a \"firman\" from the Ottoman Emperor which restricted the succession to the male-line descendants of Isma'il Pasha. The resulting succession remained in force until the abolition of the Egyptian monarchy in 1953, following the 1952 Egyptian Revolution.\n\nIn 1914, however, the British government deposed Khedive Abbas II, the senior descendant of Isma'il, and proclaimed a protectorate over Egypt. His son Muhammad Abdel Moneim lost his place as heir apparent, and the throne passed to the lines of Abbas II's uncles Hussein Kamel and Fuad I. A Royal Edict of 13 April 1922 specifically excluded Abbas II from the succession, though it stated that \"this exception shall not apply to his sons and their progeny.\" As a result, the descendants in the male line from Prince Muhammad Abdel Moneim remained eligible for the throne and retained a senior position in the order of precedence of the Kingdom of Egypt.\n\n"}
{"id": "24977127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24977127", "title": "Muhammad bin Yahya Hamid ad-Din", "text": "Muhammad bin Yahya Hamid ad-Din\n\nMuhammad bin Yahya Hamid ad-Din (1839 in Sana'a – 4 June 1904 in Qaflat Idhar ()) was an Imam of Yemen who led the resistance against the Ottoman occupation in 1890–1904.\n\nMuhammad bin Yahya Hamid ad-Din was a descendant of the founder of the Zaidi state in Yemen, Imam al-Mansur al-Qasim (d. 1620). As a middle-aged scholar, he experienced the Ottoman occupation of highland Yemen in 1872. In 1876, Muhammad and other religious leaders of San'a were arrested by the Turks due to a dispute with the Ottoman authorities. They were brought to Hudaydah where they were kept under surveillance for two years. Muhammad survived the exile and returned to San'a. Meanwhile, Zaidi resistance was kept alive by local groups including the followers of imams al-Mutawakkil al-Muhsin (d. 1878) and al-Hadi Sharaf ad-Din (d. 1890). These were unable to threaten Turkish rule in San'a and the coastland, although large parts of the highlands could not be controlled by Ottoman administration.\n\nAfter the death of al-Hadi Sharaf ad-Din, the Zaidi ulema agreed to choose his brother-in-law Muhammad bin Yahya Hamid ad-Din, for lack of more suitable candidates. On being summoned, Muhammad left San'a for Sa'dah further to the north, where resistance was based. His full title as imam was al-Mansur billah Ahmad ad-Din Muhammad. This occurred in July 1890 (or, in another version, May 1891). \nMuhammad had access to the treasury of his predecessor, which facilitated his leadership. He allotted stipends of grain and money to the ulema, and circulated letters among the tribesmen. He was able to stir up most of the northern tribes against the Turkish officials and troops. A number of towns and forts around San'a, such as Hajjah, Yarim and Dhamar, were captured by the imam's followers. In 1892 San'a itself was besieged for a while by rebel troops. The initial successes of Muhammad's followers decreased the prestige of the Turks, already unpopular through extortions and maladministration.\n\nAlthough the Turks were able to prevail, they were never able to regain the military initiative. Reinforcements of troops could not stop the expansion of Muhammad bin Yahya Hamid ad-Din's sphere of influence. The hit-and-run tactics of the tribesmen wore out the Ottoman militaries. Sultan Abdul Hamid II sent messages to Muhammad in 1891 and 1896, asking him to submit and accept a stipend and an Ottoman rank. Muhammad flatly declined the offers. He replied that his aim was not political power for its own sake, but rather the implementation of the shariah law, protection of the people from rapacious officials, and the prohibition of wine consumption and prostitution. The Turkish officials were alleged to act against Islamic precepts. In other words, Muhammad was able to frame his resistance in the professed protection of religion, against the secular and Western-influenced Turks.\nImamic resistance continued with new outbreaks of fighting in 1898. In the following year the imam asked the Sultan of Lahej in South Yemen to ask the British in Aden for protection. This did not lead to any results. Although his authority was not uncontested, Muhammad bin Yahya Hamid ad-Din was generally able to revive the glories of the early Qasimid imams. He put an end to customary laws in most of the northern tribal areas, organized stipends for men of religion, and alms for widows, orphans and teachers. He died in 1904, leaving a son, Yahya Muhammad Hamid ed-Din, who was accepted as his successor as imam. Yahya would eventually drive the Turks out of Yemen in 1918.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34063653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34063653", "title": "Multicultural media in Canada", "text": "Multicultural media in Canada\n\nMulticultural media in Canada also referred to as “ethnic media” or “third media” (as it does not use either French or English language) is media, which responds to the needs of ethnic minorities of Canada. The objective of multicultural media in Canada is to create a voice for a community of a particular ethnic background, challenge social injustices, and foster cultural pride for minority and immigrant Canadians. Ethnic media do not always target new immigrants, though much of this particular media works to eliminate feelings of isolation in the dominant culture. Multicultural media also services Canadian-born individuals of a visible minority as well as diasporic ethnicities. Ultimately, multicultural media in Canada, whether it is delivered in English, French or the respective language of the culture, is to contribute to the cultural maintenance and ethnic cohesion of the culture in question but also help members of minorities to integrate into larger Canadian society. The third-language media are especially important for new immigrants, as they are usually the main source of information for those who have yet to become proficient in one of the official languages. Thus, third-language media provide crucial information on education, training, and job seeking for these immigrants.\n\nThe promotion of multicultural media began in the late 1980s as the multicultural policy was legislated in 1988. In the Multiculturalism Act, the federal government proclaimed the recognition of the diversity of Canadian culture. Thus, multicultural media became an integral part of Canadian media overall. Upon numerous government reports showing lack of minority representation or minority misrepresentation, the Canadian government stressed separate provision be made to allow minorities and ethnicities of Canada to have their own voice in the media.\n\nToday ethnic media is available across Canada from small newspapers to full-fledged broadcasting stations run by the private sector, such as OMNI TV. Due to the difficulty of acquiring licensing and space on the electromagnetic spectrum due to costs and threshold of the spectrum itself, many ethnic cultures in Canada have third-language channels through satellite television. However, this still creates exclusion of minorities from mass media as found in Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission's review of the 1999 Ethnic Broadcasting Policy found technological access and financial constraints hindered many ethnic minorities from accessing specialty television.\n\nIn 1971 Canada became the first country to introduce a Multiculturalism policy. By 1988, the policy became an act of Parliament known as the Multiculturalism Act. The act proclaimed the federal governments policy to recognize the diversity of cultures in Canadian society. It also provided the overall framework for management of ethnocultural and racial diversity in Canada. Similarly the Broadcasting Act of 1991 asserts the Canadian broadcasting system should reflect the diversity of cultures in the country.\n\nThe CRTC is the governmental body which enforces the Broadcasting Act. The CRTC revised their Ethnic Broadcasting Policy in 1999 to go into the details on the conditions of the distribution of ethnic and multilingual programming. One of the conditions that this revision specified was the amount of ethnic programming needed in order to be awarded the ethnic broadcasting license. According to the act, 60% of programming on a channel, whether on the radio or television, has to be considered ethnic in order to be approved for the license under this policy. However, this quota does not specify which language this programming be in thus not considering the needs of the ethnic audiences.\n\nIn most major Canadian cities ethnic radio is available. Whether it is an ethnic designated time slot on a commercial station, on community or campus radio, or a 24-hour multilingual operation, ethnic radio is accessible. An example of the latter is CHIN radio. Created by Johnny Lombardi in 1966, CHIN radio has become the largest multicultural and multilingual radio station in Ontario. The station is delivers programming in more than 30 languages to 30 different cultural communities in the southern Ontario and Greater Toronto Area region. Have branched out to the Ottawa and Gatineau region, CHIN also delivers programming in 18 languages there as well. The success of the station can be credited to CHIN’s unique way in providing quantitative research about their audiences to advertisers. Using custom studies and current demographic records provides CHIN the accurate numbers behind their audiences, making advertisers support the ethnic broadcaster. Due to the success of CHIN, many companies have begun to specialize in ethnocentric demographic and lifestyle data to help predict not only the media preferences of ethnic audiences but also their spending habits. No longer merely relying on Statistics Canada for information on minorities in the nation gives a more of a well-rounded look at the complexities of Canadians of various cultural backgrounds. This information is crucial in perfecting how to market to ethnic audiences.\n\nRecently CHIN Radio has been reaching out to the official language speaking audiences. This includes the children of immigrants who grew up with English and French as their dominant language but want to learn more about their heritages traditional music, cuisine, and fashion. To reach to this segment of the population, CHIN has added a few English shows to their airwaves. CHIN also holds the popular CHIN Picnic every year to further attract non-ethnic listeners.\n\nThere are hundreds of ethnic newspapers available throughout the country. These papers have become increasingly more high-level in both the way they are run and the stories they cover. The larger dailies are Ming Pao, Sing Tao Daily, the World Journal (Chinese) and Corriere Canadese (Italian).\n\nSome other notable papers are Ghanaian News, a monthly newspaper that focuses on news relating to Ghanaian immigrants now living in Toronto or Montreal, the cities the paper is distributed in. Its contents mainly pertain to news from Ghana as well as news on Ghanaian Canadians. Mostly Ghanaian News stresses cultural retention and investing back into the home country.\n\nThe Montreal Community Contact is another minority paper serving the Montreal black public. Founded in 1992 by Egbert Gaye, the Montreal Community Contact contains stories pertaining to all black regardless of country of origin (unlike Ghanaian News). Ninety per cent of the paper is devoted to issues confronting foreign and Canadian born black people in Montreal. The stories in the Montreal Community Contact go in-depth on issues concerning the black community. The paper also reports stories on small business started by members of the black community as well as successful black Canadians. However the paper does its best to not be biased as it also reports on conflict and crime within the community it serves. Ultimately however the Montreal Community Contact tries to promote a positive image of the black community.\n\nThe role of ethnic television media is to provide informational programming, which pertains to the needs of the various cultural communities within Canada. The information provided by these programs gives these communities information that the mainstream media does not provide.\n\nOmni Television provides ethnic programming to cities in Ontario, British Columbia and Alberta. Their programming is mostly produced in Canada with a few shows from the various diasporas. The television system's three stations are offered on basic cable and show 60 percent or more of their programming in 40 languages to 50 ethnocultural communities. Knowing the importance of appealing not only to recent immigrants but also to the second and third generation immigrants, Omni, along with the other Canadian ethnic television stations, have started to raise the quality of programming. These shows are much slicker and better produced than ethnic programs of the past. Furthermore, shows produced at Omni, such as \"Canadian Desi\", understand the complexities of the minorities they serve. The show, which can be understood by both Urdu and Hindi speaking audiences, understands the vast cultural differences of these audiences. As such, generic words with no particular cultural weight are used as well as subtitles in either language when necessary.\n\nCJNT-DT is a multicultural broadcast television station in Montreal owned independently from Omni Television (owned by Channel Zero since 2009), whose roots are traced back to a public access ethnic cable channel that launched in the 1980s called La Télévision Ethnique du Québec (TEQ). The station broadcasts approximately 60 percent of its programming in seven languages. The station has the unusual distinction of being the only multicultural television station to be affiliated with an English-language television system as it served as an affiliate of CH (later E!) from 2001 to 2009 under the ownership of Canwest; as a CH/E! affiliate, the station aired select programming from the system in varied languages such as Spanish, Portuguese and Italian, in order to partially fulfill its language requirements. In May 2012, Rogers Media announced the purchase of CJNT from Channel Zero, with the intent to affiliate the station with its primary television system Citytv rather than affiliate the station with Omni Television (though some of Omni's ethnic programming will likely be supplied to fulfill ethnic programming requirements).\n\nAnother Canadian ethnic television service is specialty cable channel Telelatino. Serving Italian and Spanish Canadian audiences, the station is available in 3.5 million Canadian homes on the second tier. Telelatino is also committed to reaching out to a bigger audience outside of first generation immigrants. It has tried to grab a larger audience by introducing third-language programming in English as well as dubbing a second audio in English over its third-language programming. As it is majority owned by Corus Entertainment, TLN also shows children shows from YTV and Treehouse TV dubbed in Spanish. The audiences of ethnic stations are large enough to matter to advertisers, and this was made most obvious in the case of Italian-Australian comic Joe Avati's local Canadian tour. With TLN's promotion of the tour, Avati sold out 1800 seats for $50 each in 15 minutes. With this success due in part to TLN’s promotion, Avati expanded his tour by seven more shows in southern Ontario and Montréal. TLN subsidizes their 60 percent third language shows by showing 40 percent English programming. Many ethnic broadcasters use this 60/40 model.\n\nThe need for ethnic newspapers is high as the representation of ethnic minorities is low in mainstream Canadian newspapers. The newsgathering staffs of 37 newspapers from across the 10 Canadian provinces only have 3.4 per cent non-white individuals. In fact, 22 out the 37 newspapers have an all white staff. With no diversity in ethnicities the stories being presented through the mainstream papers do not present issues of interest to minorities or present an accurate picture of minority culture to the mainstream audience. This is in part due to the lack of structure in funneling minorities into the reporting and editing sphere, a structure that is present in the United States. As such the black community in Montreal, for example, receive limited coverage in mainstream papers. This coverage is usually around “black” events such as Black History Month in February or during summer for Nuit D’afrique and Carifestival. This “calendar journalism” presents a very limited view of these communities and only further removes them from being included in to mainstream discourse as this coverage further perpetuates otherness. If the black community does get coverage in the mainstream English papers of Montreal, it is to highlight a black athletes success at a sporting event, or to highlight a violent crime. This only further perpetuates stereotypes of the black community both good and bad. The reductionist coverage of black individuals in the cities mainstream print publications is undoubtedly related to the lack of diversity in the newsrooms. Ultimately the Multicultural Policy, which was created to avoid this under and misrepresentation, does not address the racism that causes these structural inequalities in the media.\n\nThus the \"Montreal Community Contact\" has not changed the mainstream coverage of the black community in their city. Once one looks at the numbers, this is not hard to understand. Despite the 159,000 black people in Montreal in 2001, the \"Contact\" only had a circulation of less than 8,000 papers. Only 7% of the community read the paper that year. Furthermore, there is limited mainstream access to the paper. The \"Montreal Community Contact\" is distributed by being left at ethnic stores or black community centres. This is a common distribution strategy for many ethnic newspapers in Canada. This is problematic as by making the paper only available to the ethnic audiences, little impact is made in changing the image of minorities to the mainstream population. Furthermore, the papers cannot impact the community’s image of itself as it is not accessible to all members of the community.\n\nOne of the problems ethic television station face is the lack of both qualitative and quantitative research information about their audiences. Audience measurement numbers such as the A.C. Nielson and BBM do not have the metrics to provide accurate tacking of ethnic audiences. This problem led to OMNI’s purchase of the Manifold Data Mining to provide the numbers to verify the Chinese and South Asian markets purchasing power to advertisers. However, other channels that wish to corroborate their ethnic audience numbers do not have such tools thus severely effecting they’re funding from advertisers.\n\nAnother issue, which affects the ethnic broadcasters, is the way their audiences have come to see their news coverage. In Minelle Mahtani’s article “Racializing the Audience: Immigrant Perceptions of Mainstream Canadian English-Language TV News”, Mahtani found that ethnic audiences are unconvinced of the TV news channels geared towards minorities. In a focus group of Iranian immigrants conducted in Vancouver one participant stated “If I’m really looking for information I will turn to CBC…if I want serious information I wouldn’t watch Channel M.” Other participants of the focus groups deemed ethnic channels as “fluffy” or not providing information relevant to them. What is more is, these participants felt that ethnic media did not represent their lives in a less reductionist manner than mainstream media. Thus the audiences of ethnic media still do not feel their cultures’ complexities are represented accurately or at all. The ethnic broadcasts that focused on cultural events did not serve their needs and the ethnic audiences wanted more “inclusive and representative storytelling”. The ethnic television stations lack of legitimacy in mainstream realm further affects the minorities’ view of them. By tackling this issue of legitimacy, the ethnic broadcasters will not only help their image to mainstream audiences but also to their target audiences.\n\nRecently, Canada has seen the advance of the “Grey market satellite system”. These are subscription based TV services not owned by Canadian companies but have subscribers in Canada. In September 2002 the President of the Canadian Cable Televisions Association estimated as many as 700,000 illegal satellites were in Canada. Most of these dishes are not purchased from Canadian companies. This revenue could have gone to licensed Canadian companies such as Bell ExpressVu or Rogers Digital Cable. Immigrants who want and need programs and stations from their native home countries purchase many of these dishes. The figures point to a need for an expansion of third-language media as well as a lack of satisfaction of existing third-language media in Canada. Despite the need to grow third-language media further, in 2003 the government rejected adding more foreign-language broadcasters. In the same year, the CRTC stated in a report “Canadians enjoy access to a wide variety of ethnic services”. This statement was extremely problematic as at that time, though there were 93 foreign-owned channels licensed for broadcasting in Canada but only 10 were in languages other than English or French. Also, though most third-language broadcasters are approved by the CRTC they do not have carriers, making them inaccessible to Canadians. Furthermore, in the 14 largest TV markets, only 4 analogue specialty services were available which only catered to Italian, Spanish, Cantonese, South Asian and Greek communities. With the limited numbers of ethnic programming provided by the legal means, the immigrant and ethnic communities’ reliance on “illegal” satellite services only grows.\n\nIn February 2004 there was an attempt to amend the Radiocommunication Act to increase the penalty for transmitting or decoding unauthorized satellite signal. As the CRTC refused to add more third-language channels to the existing cable and satellite services, many saw this amendment as a direct attack on the minorities whose needs were not being met by the framework set in place. The amendment did not go through as it was seen as an attack on cultural diversity.\n\nBy mid-2004, the CRTC allowed access to more third-language channels but only to subscribers who already paid for ethnic channels based in Canada.\n\nAl Jazeera English was approved for broadcasting in Canada by the CRTC in 2004. There was support for the station by the Muslim and Arabic communities in Canada. However, the Canadian Jewish Congress was less than enthusiastic about the networks availability in Canada. They stated “Under the guise of a seemingly legitimate news agency, Al Jazeera has provided hatemongers and terrorists with a platform for their view.” Ultimately, many in the Jewish communities found the station allowed and promoted anti-Semitic sentiments. The CRTC eventually concluded that though Al Jazeera had not promoted any such hateful views yet, it could potentially. This finding is extremely problematic as it gives any community or lobbyist the power to influence what channels are and are not approved by the CRTC. Any station can potentially promote hateful or spiteful messages. To allow any segment of the population to influence the CRTC’s decision on an ethnic channel can keep any third-language station off of Canadian airwaves legally. In the case of Al Jazeera, the CRTC made it the responsibility of the cable and satellite distributors to alter or delete any “abusive comments” made on Al Jazeera programming. The censorship power is otherwise forbidden to distributors. The authorization of this censorship can be seen as an act of racism on behalf of the CRTC as they only granted this censorship authority for this Arabic station. This marked the Arabic message as a deviant and ultimately uncanadian message, further perpetuating a growing Muslimphobia in the post 9/11 landscape. Furthermore, by passing the responsibility of censorship to distributors, the CRTC ensured the network would not receive carriage by the Canadian cable and satellite distributors. As Shaw Communications President Peter Bissonette explained by taking the responsibility which came with Al Jazeera, meant having a human monitoring the channel for 24 hours, who was fluent in Arabic, and knew contemporary broadcasting standards. Due to this demand in human and technological services, Al Jazeera is still not viewed on television in Canadian homes legally.\n\n"}
{"id": "1163417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1163417", "title": "Participatory budgeting", "text": "Participatory budgeting\n\nParticipatory budgeting (PB) is a process of democratic deliberation and decision-making, in which ordinary people decide how to allocate part of a municipal or public budget. Participatory budgeting allows citizens to identify, discuss, and prioritize public spending projects, and gives them the power to make real decisions about how money is spent.\n\nPB processes are typically designed to involve those left out of traditional methods of public engagement, such as low-income residents, non-citizens, and youth. A comprehensive case study of eight municipalities in Brazil analyzing the successes and failures of participatory budgeting has suggested that it often results in more equitable public spending, greater government transparency and accountability, increased levels of public participation (especially by marginalized or poorer residents), and democratic and citizenship learning.\n\nThe frameworks of PB differentiate variously throughout the globe in terms of scale, procedure, and objective. PB, in its conception, is often contextualized to suit a region's particular conditions and needs. Thus, the magnitudes of PB vary depending on whether it is carried out at a municipal, regional, or provincial level. In many cases, PB has been legally enforced and regulated; however, some are internally arranged and promoted. Since the original invention in Porto Alegre, Brazil, in 1988, PB has manifested itself in a myriad of designs, with variations in methodology, form, and technology. PB stands as one of several democratic innovations such as British Columbia's Citizens' Assembly, encompassing the ideals of a participatory democracy. Today, PB has been implemented in nearly 1,500 municipalities and institutions around the world.\n\nMost broadly, all participatory budgeting schemes allow citizens to deliberate with the goal of creating either a concrete financial plan (a budget), or a recommendation to elected representatives. In the Porto Alegre model, the structure of the scheme gives subjurisdictions (neighborhoods) authority over the larger political jurisdiction (the city) of which they are part. Neighborhood budget committees, for example, have authority to determine the citywide budget, not just the allocation of resources for their particular neighborhood. There is, therefore, a need for mediating institutions to facilitate the aggregation of budget preferences expressed by subjurisdictions.\n\nAccording to the World Bank Group, certain factors are needed for PB to be adopted: \"[...]strong mayoral support, a civil society willing and able to contribute to ongoing policy debates, a generally supportive political environment that insulates participatory budgeting from legislators' attacks, and financial resources to fund the projects selected by citizens.\" In addition, there are generally two approaches through which PB formulates: top-down versus bottom-up. The adoption of PB has been required by the federal government in nations such as Peru, while there are cases where local governments initiated PB independent from the national agenda such as Porto Alegre. With the bottom-up approach, NGO's and local organizations have played crucial roles in mobilizing and informing the community members.\n\nPB processes do not adhere to strict rules, but they generally share several basic steps:\n\n\nParticipatory Budgeting was first developed in the 1980s by the Brazilian Workers' Party, drawing on the party's stated belief that electoral success is not an end in itself but a spring board for developing radical, participatory forms of democracy. While there were several early experiments (including the public budgeting practices of the Brazilian Democratic Movement in municipalities such as Pelotas ), the first full participatory budgeting process was implemented in 1989, in the city of Porto Alegre, Brazil, a capital city of the state of Rio Grande do Sul, and a busy industrial, financial, and service center, at that time with a population of 1.2 million. The initial success of PB in Porto Alegre soon made it attractive to other municipalities. By 2001, more than 100 cities in Brazil had implemented PB, while in 2015, thousands of variations have been implemented in the Americas, Africa, Asia and Europe.\n\nIn its first Title, the 1988 Constitution of Brazil states that \"All power originates from the people, who exercise it by the means of elected representatives or directly, according to the terms of this Constitution.\" The authoring of the Constitution was a reaction to the previous twenty years of military dictatorship, and the new Constitution sought to secure individual liberty while also decentralizing and democratizing ruling power, in the hope that authoritarian dictatorship would not reemerge.\n\nBrazil's contemporary political economy is an outgrowth of the Portuguese empire's patrimonial capitalism, where \"power was not exercised according to rules, but was structured through personal relationships\". Unlike the Athenian ideal of democracy, in which all citizens participate directly and decide policy collectively, Brazil's government is structured as a republic with elected representatives. This institutional arrangement has created a separation between the state and civil society, which has opened the doors for clientelism. Because the law-making process occurs behind closed doors, elected officials and bureaucrats can access state resources in ways that benefit certain 'clients', typically those of extraordinary social or economic relevance. The influential clients receive policy favors, and repay elected officials with votes from the groups they influence. For example, a neighborhood leader represents the views of shop owners to the local party boss, asking for laws to increase foot traffic on commercial streets. In exchange, the neighborhood leader mobilizes shop owners to vote for the political party responsible for the policy. Because this patronage operates on the basis of individual ties between patron and clients, true decision-making power is limited to a small network of party bosses and influential citizens rather than the broader public.\n\nIn 1989, Olívio Dutra won the mayor's seat in Porto Alegre. In an attempt to encourage popular participation in government and redirect government resources towards the poor, Dutra institutionalized the PT's organizational structure on a citywide level. The result is one example of what we now know as Participatory Budgeting.\n\nA World Bank paper suggests that participatory budgeting has led to direct improvements in facilities in Porto Alegre. For example, sewer and water connections increased from 75% of households in 1988 to 98% in 1997. The number of schools quadrupled since 1986.\n\nThe high number of participants, after more than a decade, suggests that participatory budgeting encourages increasing citizen involvement, according to the paper. Also, Porto Alegre's health and education budget increased from 13% (1985) to almost 40% (1996), and the share of the participatory budget in the total budget increased from 17% (1992) to 21% (1999). In a paper that updated the World Bank's methodology, expanding statistical scope and analyzing Brazil's 253 largest municipalities that use participatory budgeting, researchers found that participatory budgeting reallocates spending towards health and sanitation. Health and sanitation benefits accumulated the longer participatory budgeting was used in a municipality. Participatory budgeting does not merely allow citizens to shift funding priorities in the short-term – it can yield sustained institutional and political change in the long term.\n\nThe paper concludes that participatory budgeting can lead to improved conditions for the poor. Although it cannot overcome wider problems such as unemployment, it leads to \"noticeable improvement in the accessibility and quality of various public welfare amenities\".\n\nBased on Porto Alegre more than 140 (about 2.5%) of the 5,571 municipalities in Brazil have adopted participatory budgeting.\n\nAs of 2015, over 1,500 instances of PB have been implemented across the five continents. While the democratic spirit of PB remains the same throughout the world, institutional variations abound.\n\nFor example, the Dominican Republic, Bolivia, Guatemala, Nicaragua, and Peru have implemented participatory budgeting in all local governments, and a number of towns and cities in Portugal, France, Italy, Germany, and Spain have also initiated participatory budgeting processes. In Canada, participatory budgeting has been implemented with public housing, neighbourhood groups, and a public schools, in the cities of Toronto, Guelph, Hamilton, and West Vancouver. Since its emergence in Porto Alegre, participatory budgeting has spread to hundreds of Latin American cities, and dozens of cities in Europe, Asia, Africa, and North America. In some cities, participatory budgeting has been applied for school, university, and public housing budgets. In France, the Region Poitou-Charentes is notable for launching participatory budgeting in its secondary schools. These international approaches differ significantly, and they are shaped as much by their local contexts as by the Porto Alegre model.\n\nParticipatory budgeting in Porto Alegre occurs annually, starting with a series of neighborhood, regional, and citywide assemblies, where residents and elected budget delegates identify spending priorities and vote on which priorities to implement. Porto Alegre spends about 200 million dollars per year on construction and services, this money is subject to participatory budgeting. Annual spending on fixed expenses, such as debt service and pensions, is not subject to public participation. Around fifty thousand residents of Porto Alegre now take part in the participatory budgeting process (compared to 1.5 million city inhabitants), with the number of participants growing year on year since 1989. Participants are from diverse economic and political backgrounds.\n\nThe participatory budgeting cycle starts in January and assemblies across the city facilitate maximum participation and interaction. Each February there is instruction from city specialists in technical and system aspects of city budgeting. In March there are plenary assemblies in each of the city's 16 districts as well as assemblies dealing with such areas as transportation, health, education, sports, and economic development. These large meetings—with participation that can reach over 1,000—elect delegates to represent specific neighborhoods. The mayor and staff attend to respond to citizen concerns. In the following months, delegates meet weekly or biweekly in each district to review technical project criteria and district needs. City department staff may participate according to their area of expertise. At a second regional plenary, regional delegates prioritize the district's demands and elect 42 councillors representing all districts and thematic areas to serve on the Municipal Council of the Budget. The main function of the Municipal Council of the Budget is to reconcile the demands of each district with available resources, and to propose and approve an overall municipal budget. The resulting budget is binding, though the city council can suggest, but not require changes. Only the Mayor may veto the budget, or remand it back to the Municipal Council of the Budget (this has never happened).\n\nThe city of Rosario in Argentina mixed participatory budgeting with an approach called ‘gender budgeting’. In practice it means taking appropriate actions to involve more women in the participatory budgeting process, and to make all participants more sensitive of gender issues and the impact of the participatory budgeting projects on these issues.\n\nThe first recorded Participatory Budgeting process in the United States of America is in the Rogers Park neighborhood of Chicago, Illinois. Led by the ward's Alderman, Joe Moore, Chicago's 49th Ward is undertaking this process with the Alderman's \"Menu Money.\" Menu Money is a yearly budgeted amount each of Chicago's 50 wards receives for use on capital expenses. This money in other wards is typically allocated at the complete discretion of a ward's Alderman. Since 2011 more examples have been occurring in the US, in New York City, and now citywide in Vallejo, California, and most recently in Greensboro, NC. In Boston, the first youth-led participatory budgeting process in the US allows teens to decide how to spend $1 million of the city's budget.\n\nCambridge's first PB occurred in 2014-2015, with $528,000 allocated towards the implementation of six winning projects. Winning projects included one hundred healthy trees, twenty laptops for a community center, bilingual books for children learning english, a public bathroom in Central Square, bike report stations, and free public wifi in six outdoor locations.\n\nNew York City's Participatory Budgeting process (PBNYC) is the largest in North America. The process began in 2011-2012 as a pilot program in four City Council districts. In its sixth year (2016-2017), PBNYC has grown to include 31 of the city's 51 districts. Community members in each district decide how to spend at least $1 million of their City Council member's discretionary funds.\n\nPBNYC cycles run from early fall through the spring. Districts hold neighborhood meetings to collect ideas for community improvement projects. Idea collection is focused particularly on hard-to-reach communities, such as immigrants with limited English proficiency, youth, senior citizens, and public housing residents. Volunteers then research community needs and work with city agencies to turn ideas into concrete proposals. The proposals are put to a community vote, which is open to any resident of the district over the age of 14. City agencies implement the winning projects.\n\nIn Toronto Community Housing, PB is part of a broader \"tenant participation system.\" PB has been a part of Toronto Community Housing since 2001. This inspired the launch of a three-year pilot of PB at the ward-level in Toronto, beginning in 2015. In the months of May and June 2018 the city will begin debating what to do with PB at the municipal-level, following annual evaluations of the pilot. Thirty-seven projects have been voted for through the entirety of the three-year pilot process, comprising a total of $1.8 million in residents directly allocating funds towards projects.\n\nCiting the case of Toronto, Community Voices Heard (CVH) has called for PB within the New York City Housing Authority (NYCHA). As part of a platform for democratizing and improving access to public housing, CVH has advocated for developing a kind of participatory system tied together by PB. CVH also advocates for a gradual increase of money being allocated through PB as residents become increasingly familiarized with the process.\n\nAs part of a broader platform for pushing greater investment and public housing, in early 2014 the LA Human Right to Housing collective began advocating for the use of PB in the Housing Authority of the City of Los Angeles (HACLA). This was in response to a budget corruption scandal in November 2012 in HACLA.According to the Collective, nearly one-hundred residents mobilized to demand PB at a HACLA Agency Plan hearing in August 2014. In response, HACLA launched a \"values driven participatory budgeting process\" developed and coordinated by a consultant. This was a six-week process, consisting of \"resident consultation\" that fed into decisions ultimately made by administration and management. Participatory elements of the process were \"a resident survey\" and \"resident review of site specific budgets.\" The Collective regarded both the design and distribution of the survey to be unsatisfactory. Coupled with a lack of technical support, any kind of resident-focused collective deliberation or evidence of resident influence on the outcome of the process, the Collective deemed the process \"participatory in name only.\"\n\nTo counter this, the Collective sought to scale up their campaign for a \"true participatory budgeting\" process by initiating a Model PB process. The process included a combination of one-on-one and door-to-door outreach with deliberation through meetings and assemblies of residents. The Model PB process resulted in tenants and the Collective deepening their critique of HACLA's PB \"in name only\" as well as putting forward a number of recommendations to create a \"true PB\" process.\n\nSince 2014 a youth PB process has operated in the city of Boston. Today the process allows persons aged between 12 and 25 years old to decide how to allocate one million dollars.\n\nIn 2013-2014 MIT's International Development Group within the school's Department of Urban Studies and Planning conducted an $8,000 PB process. Voting was not over allocating money to specific project proposals, but rather to determining exact allotments to four broad distinct budget categories: field trips, social events, project funding, and cultural event series. To determine precise allotments, \"each participant allocated a percentage value of the $8,000 to each category. The average for each category was taken and a preliminary set of results was disclosed.\" The MIT intra-departmental process provides an example of how PB can be utilized to not only determine the allocation of funds within a specific budget category, but also to determine how funds are distributed across budget categories.\n\nIn Spring 2015 Sullivan High School conducted a $25,000 participatory budgeting process. Seventy percent of the student body voted in the process, with the money allocated towards building a new recreation room.\n\nWithin PBNYC youth participation has been semi-formalized in various forms. This includes the youth-led formation of the District 39 PB Youth Committee. District 3 also possesses a PB Youth Committee December 2015, which works in collaboration with an organization called Friends of the High Line. In his State of the City address, Mayor Bill de Blasio announced that PB would be launched in every public high school. Each participating school will receive $2,000 for students to allocate through PB. PB has also been launched at various colleges in the City University of New York. These have included Queens College, Brooklyn College, City Tech, Hunter College, and the CUNY Graduate Center.\n\nTen high schools allocated $55,000 of district-wide funds in Phoenix through PB.\n\nIn 2013 a $25,000 PB process was launched at Palo Alto Community College. Initially this was only open to faculty and staff. In fall 2015 the process was opened to students as well. The 2018 process expanded the pot of funds from $25,000 to $50,000.\n\nPB in the United Kingdom was initially introduced as part of the 'New Labour' Party's decentralization agenda that aimed to empower the local governments in the first decade of the 21st century. Hazel Blears, the Labour MP, \"[...] played a key role in the inclusion of PB on the national policy agenda[...],\" pushing for greater community participation and empowerment in the governmental structure. Within this new political ambiance, the British PB, inspired by Porto Alegre's example, gained traction for implementation, especially through the active engagement of local NGO's and community activists, namely the Community Pride Initiative.\n\nThe first attempt at PB was initiated as a pilot in the city of Bradford in 2004, and its \"procedural model consists of two main steps: the elaboration of project schemes by local community groups and a decision about these schemes by all involved groups during a public meeting.\" The Bradford process, while limited to small funding, helped PB spread to other cities such as Newcastle. In addition to the bottom-up activism in local communities, Blears's initiative for PB on the national level helped promote its implementation and diffusion more broadly, and by 2011, there were at least 150 recorded cases of PB, albeit being limited to small funding and designated personnel. The \"UK style\" of PB, as Anja Rocke puts it, \"in form of small grant-spending processes with no secured financial basis and organized at the margins of the political system,\" failed to gain enough momentum to be established nationally as a formal decision-making procedure.\n\nThe Scottish Government has made a commitment to participatory budgeting, saying \"We support PB as a tool for community engagement and for developing participatory democracy in Scotland\". In addition, the Scottish Government and the Convention of Scottish Local Authorities have agreed that at least 1% of local government budgets will be subject to participatory budgeting by the end of 2021, potentially amounting to £100million.\n\nThe Scottish Government allocates funding for participatory budgeting through the Community Choices Fund, delivered in partnership between the Government, local authorities, communities and third sector organisations.\nThere is a national network to support participatory budgeting called the PB Scotland Network. Glasgow Community Planning Partnership has worked with What Works Scotland to develop a toolkit to assess the impact of its PB activities and develop an improvement plan.\n\nA number of analyses and reviews of participatory budgeting in Scotland have been published since 2015, including:\n\n\"Participatory budgeting in Scotland: an overview of strategic design choices and principles for effective delivery\". Produced by What Works Scotland and the Glasgow Centre for Population Health, this reviewed international research, evaluations, grey literature and commentary and drew upon learning and insights from a PB pilot in Govanhill in Glasgow. (Published December 2015).\n\n\"A Review of First Generation Participatory Budgeting in Scotland\". This examined the growth and development of the first generation of participatory budgeting in Scotland in order to generate insight to support the strategic and operational leadership and delivery of future participatory budgeting. The review was commissioned by What Works Scotland and was undertaken by researchers from the Glasgow Centre for Population Health and What Works Scotland. (Published October 2016).\n\n\"Public service reform and participatory budgeting: How can Scotland learn from international evidence?\" A documentary film exploring how Glasgow and Fife community planning partnerships learnt about implementing participatory budgeting on a study trip to Paris, a European leader in mainstreaming PB. (Published July 2017)\n\n\"Evaluating Participatory Budgeting Activity in Scotland – Interim Report Year 2.\" Produced by researchers based at Glasgow Caledonian University for the Scottish Government. It identified any impact that PB has had on local communities, local services, and local democracy in Scotland across 20 local authority areas with a more detailed analysis of 6 local authorities.(Published Nov 2017).\n\nIn 2005, the national government revised its Local Finance Act to promote citizen participation in the local government budgeting process in response to a few of the local governments that initially took a bottom-up approach in experimenting with forms of PB. Since then, the Ministry of Security and Public Administration invested in the nation-wide promotion of PB system diffusion, and under Myung Bak Lee's Administration in 2011, the newly revised Local Finance Act required all local governments to adopt PB.\n\nBefore the 2011 decree, approximately 45% of local governments had already been utilizing the PB system, and it took 3 years for the remaining municipalities to fulfill the mandate. The PB System of Seoul Metropolitan Government served as the benchmark for other local governments' adoption of PB in those years. Seoul, city with the world's 4th highest GDP, runs a PB committee of 300 people representing 25 districts. The committee is then split into 11 different budgetary fields such as parks and recreation, culture, environment, and etc. In its first year, Seoul citizens voted and finalized on 223 projects worth 50.3 billion KRW, and most recently in 2017, the PB system finalized 766 projects amounting to 59.3 billion KRW (approximately 55 million USD).\n\nA comprehensive study of Korea's PB in 2016 suggests that PB in Korea has allocated most of public budget to the following three areas: land/local development, transportation, and culture and tourism. Transparency in budget documents and information sharing has increased since 2011, and the approval rates by local PB committees averaged to approximately 70%. On the other hand, the study also points out that the lack of citizen capacity, inadequate resources for smaller municipalities, and limited representativeness of vested interests as some of the most unresolved challenges in Korea's PB implementation.\n\nIndia's experience with PB has been limited despite its 74th Constitutional Amendment, which proposes to the state and local governments the formation of ward committees composed of local citizens to direct ward-level budgets. Such initiative was not implemented, and thus there were only few cities that experimented with PB, which are Bangalore, Myso, Pune, and Hiware Bazar.\n\nBangalore was the first to implement PB in India in 2001 with the help of a local NGO. Similarly, Pune was able to adopt PB in 2006 with the help of several local NGOs. Pune's PB system was met with a large response from its local citizens, and multiple online and offline workshops were carried out to foster the implementation As a result, Pune has experienced both increased citizen participation and budget allocation, which are directed primarily towards roads, electricity, slum-improvement, and water shortage. Influenced by Pune's PB, Pimpri-Chinchwad, the fifth-most populated city of Maharashtra, also began to adopt the framework soon after.\n\nHiware Bazar may have served as the most successful example of PB in India. On June 25, 2015, Delhi Deputy chief Minister Manish Sisodia presented the Swaraj Budget. The Aam Admi Party Swaraj Budget was prepared based on voting from the people of different constituencies. In each constituency three meetings were held; each meeting was attended by 200–300 residents, and a list of key issues was prepared, which was then voted on to decide the top priorities. As a result, the village, once bereft of water, education, and basic needs for life, is now self-sufficient with a high per capita income.\n\nFor South Africa, the mechanisms for citizen participation is written in its constitution. Each municipality has its budgetary committee formed with representatives from its 'wards' that deal directly with its budgeting. The World Bank Group's research lists Mangaung and Ekurhuleni municipalities as representative cases to demonstrate the typical PB process in South Africa. First, the process for the council is fixed by the mayor, who sets up certain deadlines for the council to deliberate within. Then, the municipality is divided geographically into 'wards', and the public budget is drawn with any desired submission from the community through their ward representatives. The tentatively accumulated budget plan is then publicized so that any citizens or \"stakeholders\" can make their final inputs, and the final version is submitted to the national and provincial governments for approval.\n\nOn a nation-wide level, the South African municipalities, as a result of PB, have witnessed the public budget \"shift from infrastructure development to local economic development, a higher priority for citizens.\" Currently, PB is being carried out in 284 municipalities, each varying slightly in its process. The rate of transparency for the municipal governments has increased because the sub-organization ward committees are able to maintain consistently ongoing communication with the citizens. Regardless, the challenges in South African local governance still prevail as a result of the lack of resources and limited capacities assigned to PB. Furthermore, language barriers and cultural differences also provide immediate obstacles for holistic communications between various wards and social groups within the municipalities.\n\nThe Better Neighbourhoods participatory budgeting project of the wider citizen sourcing Better Reykjavik project of the City of Reykjavik was established in 2011. Nearly 2 million Euros (300 million ISK) has been allocated each year with over citizen proposed 100 projects funded most years. The project is mostly driven by digital participation with secure electronic voting.\n\nBuenos Aires adopted the PB process in 2001 hoping to emerge a political economy. There were manipulators like people watching the system and third parties forming for or against the PB system. Buenos aires used a system where the communities allocated where the government would take action first by ranking where the cities resources would go. After participation decreased by 50% in the 2005 cycle, PB came to an end and \"the new communes\" emerged.\n\nReviewing the experience in Brazil and Porto Alegre a World Bank paper points out that lack of representation of extremely poor people in participatory budgeting can be a shortcoming. Participation of the very poor and of the young is highlighted as a challenge. What are the insights regarding the opportunities for and barriers to accomplishing the goal of participatory-based budgeting? It takes leadership to flatten the organizational structure and make conscious ethical responsibilities as individuals and as committee members try to achieve the democratic goals means that the press should be present for the public, and yet the presence of the press inhibits the procedural need for robust discussion. Or, while representation is a cornerstone to participatory budgeting, a group being so large has an effect on the efficiency of the group. Participatory budgeting may also struggle to overcome existing clientelism. Other observations include that particular groups are less likely to participate once their demands have been met and that slow progress of public works can frustrate participants.\n\nIn Chicago, participatory budgeting has been criticized for increasing funding to recreational projects while allocating less to infrastructure projects.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19449872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19449872", "title": "Pojulu people", "text": "Pojulu people\n\nThe Pojulu (or Pajulu) ethnic groups are of the savanna lands in the , in the region of South Sudan. They are Nilotic peoples and part of the Karo people — which also includes Bari, Mundari, Kakwa, Kuku, and Nyangwara.\n\nThe Pojulu differentiate into smaller clans of Nyori, Morsak, Wonduruba, Goduck, Lobora, Moje, Mulusuk, Pirisa, Malari, Mankaro, Sadim, Jomi, Nyiga, Komojok, Limbe, Mundu, Jebele, Maraga and a few other smaller ones. The population of the Pojulu is estimated to be one million.\n\nThe majority of the Pojulu population are located in Lainya county of [Yei state] former Central Equatoria state, including Mukaya Payam. The Pojulu are also found in Juba and Yei counties of the state. Pojulu people also occupy the area from Lainya to Kagwada, Kopera, Jamara and Mukaya. The centre of Pojulu will be Kenyi Payam from Mundu 20 miles, Mukaya 18 miles, Wonduruba 21 miles, Bereka 15 miles, Lainya 9 miles and from Kagwada 22 miles.\n\nThe name Pojulu is derived from several sources. The Pojulu can be differentiated in the way all Bari speakers pronounce words, the way all other Bari speakers say their greetings, and the way each group socialize — such as along the roads from Juba up to Lainya and from Lainya to Bereka and Wonduruba.\n\nThe environment in Central Equatoria is typically tropical. There can be arid periods with less rain. The neighbouring tribes are Bari to the east, Nyangwara to the north, Kakwa to the south, Mundu to the west, and Avukaya to the northwest.\n\nThe Pojulu people speak the Kutuk na Pojulu language, as other Karo people, but with particular dialectic variation which highlights the difference between the Pojulu among the Karo. This Bari language has some distinct variations linked to people's daily activities and traditions that have evolved over time from these experiences.\n\nThere is little knowledge about the origin of the Pojulu as a people, and their relation to the Bari and other Bari-speaking ethnic groups.\n\nAccording to the 'Toposa Traditional History', the Bari-speaking people, of whom the Pojulu are an offshoot, are believed to have originated in the Kidepo Valley in the Kapoeta region. These Bari-speaking people were, however, forced out of Kapoeta and moved south and west by the Toposa, who are also believed to have migrated from Masindi port in Uganda. Being strong warriors, the Toposa raided and fought the Bari-speaking groups and took their girls, boys, women, and stock animals.\n\nTherefore, the roots of the Pojulu community were traced through the use of linguistics and oral traditions to Bari ancestors in Kapoeta. The present Pojulu people are therefore pure descendants of in-common Bari ancestors through kinship. The present Toposa live in the Kidepo Valley, where the Pojulu originated. Statistically, the 21st-century Pojulu population is over 1.5 million people (2004 estimate).\n\nIn the past, the Pojulu forged a rare alliance with Moro, Mundu against the marauding Azande armies. This cut off the main Azande force and led to the formation of the Makaraka.\n\nThe common ancestor of Bari groups was called Julu Lo Jululon. The dispersion of the Bari group from Kapoeta region might have been caused by several factors, which include:\n\nThis common Julu Lo Jululon ancestor, together with all his people followed the Nile and settled along the Eastern Bank of the White Nile. From here a second dispersion took place possibly due to pressure for more land. It is from here where the Pojulu (are believed to have) declared their independence from the major Bari group, broke away, crossed the Nile westwards and continued their journey up to Gumbiri near the present geographical zone.\n\nIn the Gumbiri area, a third or final dispersion of the Pojulu people took place probably due to power struggle or lack of enough agricultural land. Then the Pojulu settled down in their present geographical locations. This was before the European Scramble for Africa.\n\nThe pre-history of the genesis of the Pojulu people originating from Kapoeta is illustrated by the similarities in the studies of linguistics and oral histories of the Toposa, Bari and the Pojulu peoples. These three groups have similar words in their languages:\n\nFor most of the South Sudanese Civil War, the fighting was focused in the Greater Upper Nile region. After the clashes in Juba in 2016, the fighting largely shifted to the previously safe haven of Equatoria, where the bulk of SPLM-IO forces went for shelter. Accounts point to both sides targeting civilians on ethnic lines between the Dinka and the dozens of ethnic groups among the Equatorians who are historically in conflict with the Dinka, such as the Karo, who include the Bari. Witnesses report Dinka soldiers threatening villagers that they will kill all Kakwa, another Karo people, for their alleged support to Machar and killing Pojulu people while sparing those who they find can speak Dinka. A UN investigation said rape was being used a tool of ethnic cleansing and Adama Dieng, the U.N.'s Special Adviser on the Prevention of Genocide, warned of genocide after visiting areas of fighting in Yei.\n\nThe Pojulu economy is predominantly agrarian. The majority of Pojulu people are peasants practicing mixed farming: subsistence agriculture in which the main crops are cassava, sorghum, maize, simsim, groundnut, wheat, sweet potatoes, cabbages, beans, onions, tomatoes, ((Okra)), etc. The Pojulu keep goats, sheep, few pigs, chicken, ducks and cattle in some suitable areas due to the prevalence of tsetse fly which rendered cattle herding very difficult.\n\nThe Loka Plantation Teak forest is the largest teak plantation in Africa. The planted forest reserves within the Pojulu area are at Kawale, Lijo, Loka West, and Nuni.\n\nThe Pojulu Economy depends largely on subsistence production. It is an economy which aims to meet the daily food needs of the Pojulu community. Activities range from reliance on animal husbandry to total dependence on crop production. The Pojulu use human labour combined with the most elementary tools locally made. This primitive mode of production has always dominated the lives of the Pojulu.\n\nThe Pojulu grow both staple and cash crops. The staple crops are for consumption and include cassava, sesame, maize, beans, and groundnuts. The cash crops include tobacco, cotton, coffee, and timber.\n\nThe Pojulu are not sophisticated in agricultural implements. They use local agricultural tools made locally by their own blacksmiths, using scrap iron. The local blacksmiths produce tools such as hoes, sickles, axes, arrows, spears, and knives.\n\nAnimal wealth in Pojulu land includes goats, sheep, chickens, and cattle. They are raised for food, marriage dowries, and as 'animal cash crops' earning the Pojulu money to enable them to purchase other goods and services.\n\nThe Pojulu practice \"Mole\" – a type of collective farming where a group of people—5–10 or more—are called to clear a field for a neighbour or relative in one or two days. Here, a goat is slaughtered and beer is brewed for these people. This system of farming is advantageous. It clears hectares of land just in a day or so. \"Lukonin\" is also practiced, where two or more people agree to work in their farms on rotational basis. This system also saves time and effort. Women also do the same during preparation of land for planting and weeding of crops.\n\nPast colonial regimes did nothing to improve the Pojulu reliance on subsistence agriculture. Successive Arab governments since Sudan independence perpetuated this primitive mode of production. The continuous civil wars exacerbated the problems until the 2011 formation of South Sudan. However, despite the practice of subsistence agriculture, the Pojulu never suffered a major famine. There was self-sufficiency in food production for local consumption in the Pojulu community. This food sufficiency is now sustaining the remnants from the civil wars in the Pojulu land.\n\nThe Pojulu chiefs play a great role in encouraging agricultural production. In the villages, chiefs pass local orders banning people from coming to the town or local station in the mornings. Bars for \"Kwete\" can be closed until noon, resulting in morning work at the farms. The chiefs are polygamous. Citizens volunteer to grow food crops for chiefs and their families. Meanwhile, during visits to the villages, the chiefs return food to needy families, a 'Pojulu food relief program.'\n\nLike other communities, the Pojulu have evolved an oral culture expressed in songs, poems, dance, music, folklore, magic.\n\nPojulu is the name by which this Bari-speaking ethnic community is known. Pojulu society ascribe to certain norms and values. As with other communities, pojulu is a male dominated society. The eldest male member of the family is entrusted with the responsibility of caring for the rest unless he demonstrates incompetence and irresponsibility.\n\nIn most Pojulu areas, the eldest male members are charged with the entire responsibilities of the family or clan and elder daughters are also considered responsible for the well-being of the older people. This is one of the reasons that led Pojulu women taking the role of being good carers. The Pojulu of today is different from the Pojulu of 50 years ago.\n\nMarriage begins with courtship and once the prospective bride and groom have decided to marry each other, the matter is then reported to both families for endorsement. Pojulu dowry is in the form of goats, cattle and cash money. This is accompanied by celebrations and merriment. The Pojulu dowry is not settled at one go – even if there were prospects for that. The explanation is to maintain links and relationship between the two families, and during the marriage event there is a whole celebration for the whole relatives which includes dancing, drinking, singing and conversations.\n\nThe Pojulu specifically marry to produce children. Provision of services by the wife is secondary. If the new wife fails to conceive within a reasonable length of time, this creates worry and disappointment to the two families. Marriage in the Pojulu takes several methods and steps:\n\nThis is a marriage arranged by both parents of a girl and parents of a boy. When both families have agreed to the marriage, then the dowry is paid in installments until it is completed.\n\nThis is normally in social, cultural activities. For example, dances, funerals, marriage ceremonies, schools and/or even at homes. Following this, contacts are initiated and in most cases through associates (friends, relatives and/or parents), love messages are transmitted to both parties.\n\nIn this stage, the two families or lovers begin to exchange visits to acquaint themselves and/or study each other. Other visits may be followed by exchange of presents which range from pottery, basketry, handcraft, food items, beer, etc. In some instances, songs and praises are constructed to express the feelings by the two parties.\n\nIn recognition of the above steps, both families—aware of what is happening—begin to make necessary arrangements to have the two parties announce their intentions in the presence of the members family members, friends and wellwishers. This stage is considered the most binding for any meaningful marriage in the Pojulu culture. It is likened to taking an oath. Part of the bride wealth is normally settled, and once accepted the occasion is celebrated with drinks, food and dances lasting for days.\n\nFollowing declaration of marriage, the handing over ceremony is performed. This ceremony is prepared well in advance for the bride to be escorted to her new home. It is a commitment of both families, friends and wellwishers. On the side of the bride, the family ensures provision of support for domestic items such as cooking pots, bedding, and other domestic appliances necessary for starting a new home. Drinks are prepared for this function. On the side of the bridegroom, the family also prepares to receive their son's in-laws and the new bride. This occasion in itself is a big celebration characterized by dances and drinking. In performing this function, the balance of the bride wealth may be settled.\n\nAnother important feature in this function following the above, a few days later, is empowerment. The active player in this process is normally the mother-in-law through arrangements with the father-in-law of the bride to introduce her to her full responsibilities and to witness the first time the bride eats food prepared by her mother-in-law. This is a long Pojulu tradition that a bride or bridegroom does not eat food in the family where she/he is married to or marrying from until this function is performed. This is believed to be a measure of integrity and respect.\n\nIn this kind of marriage, the boy takes the girl by force. It is a marriage that involves a lot of problems between the two families and may cause tribal or clan fights. However, after a heated debate and amicable discussion, marriage may be agreed upon and dowry is then paid.\n\nAs it is briefly mentioned above, this is the normal and civilized method of marriage. Because choice of this marriage is an affair of both the boy and girl. When the relationship between the boy and the girl becomes strong, the girl then reveals it to her parents. The boy and girl are interviewed on whether they love each other and are willing to get married. Then, the parents give their approval or rejection. This is followed by screening of both families to check whether any one family has a social defect or bad social history. Neither the boy nor the girl will eat in either home, nor parents with future in-laws. Marriage is by parental consent and it is considered the most advisable and preferable of all marriages.\n\nThe main aim of the Pojulu marriage is to produce children. It is for this reason that the mothers of the girls are advised to be strict on their girls' behaviors and movement. They are advised and coached well to be good housewives and good future mothers.\n\nIn a Pojulu family, there can be 'problems' which make lives of a new married woman uncomfortable. The new wife is kept under suspicion throughout her life in the household:\n\nToday, however, as a result of effects of civilization and the influence of religions such as Christianity, some of these 'problems' have been abandoned.\n\nImmediately after giving birth, the mother of the newly born child is confined in her hut or room for seven days, but assisted by young children. She will have her meals in the room with the young children while taking care of her new baby. The whole period of her confinement may last 21 days. During this period, other women in the family or co-wives are charged with the responsibility of all the daily services in the house.\n\nThe occasion of giving a name to the newly born child is called \"Yiji\" in the Pojulu. Much food is prepared, e.g. meat, beans, variety of oils, beer, etc. Some people may slaughter a goat because of happiness in a new family member being added to their number.\n\nAfter the traditions are performed, usually by women, a dance is staged when the women, their husbands and most of the youth in the location join in the dance and drink to the health of the newborn.\n\nDeath, when it occurs—even in a natural circumstance of disease or old age—is usually attributed to some mishap and to it having been instigated. Family members have their heads shaved throughout the mourning period. Mourning may last up to a month.\n\nIn the Pojulu, death is treated with caution and respect for the deceased. A burial is normally done in the morning or evening—in the cooler hours of the day. Before any burial of the dead, maternal uncles have to be consulted and cleared of their requirements. The funerals can be peaceful if the traditional requirements are fulfilled otherwise, abrogation of the traditions/demands causes chaos. Christianity though has had quite an impact so much so that some traditional requirements considered evil in the Church are no longer being practiced. Today, many funerals are conducted in a Christian way.\n\nThe Pojulu chief has the role of a political leader with judicial powers. It is hereditary, usually falling to the eldest son of the departed chief. The Pojulu chief is always assisted by a council of elders, who come from different clans or families. The criterion of choosing these people is wisdom, bravery, and experience in matters pertaining to the tribe.\n\nThe Pojulu, like other Bari-speaking people, believe in a Supreme Being god (ŋun) who is the creator. They also believe in the existence of spirits of the departed ancestors. Many of these beliefs are now fading under the influence of modernity and Christianity.\nChoir in Pojulu\n\nThe Pojulu practiced African Traditional Religion before the introduction of Christianity. They practice some form of ancestral spirit worship. They strongly believe in one God. According to the Pojulu, it is He who creates, protects and destroys all mankind, irrespective of race, religion or political orientation. They believe that humankind is subject to the one Supreme power of God.\n\nThere was among the Pojulu, a religion known as the Biri religion. This was a cultural import. The Biri religion came to the Pojulu, brought by the Muna Akufi between 1910–1917. In this religion, people were baptized; however, unlike Christianity, in the Biri religion, water is not used in baptism. When Christianity was introduced, it was accepted without resistance. The first man was baptised by water in 1920, in Lainya County.\n\nTraces of the Biri religion are still known among the Pojulu today in the names of the converts. Because believers of the Biri religion received names such as Makambili, Kamara, Doromo, Piri-Piri, Kamisa, Maamet, Malangi, etc. The converts became disciples. They were considered holy and they spread the Biri religion to other lands. They traveled from village to village – converting unbelievers into the Biri religion. This was their fellowship. When the Biri religion died out, it gave way to Christianity which was better able to meet the spiritual and material needs of the believers.\n\nSince the Ottoman Empire, and through the Mahdiya, Islam has little impact on the Pojulu. And during the era of General Ibrahim Abboud (1958–1964), attempts were made to introduce Islam to the Pojulu. These attempts were unsuccessful. Khalwa and Maahads flourished in the major towns and it was in these towns that some Pojulu converted to Islam and adopted Islamic names.\n\nChristianity is foreign to the Pojulu; it came to Yei in 1916 and spread throughout Pojulu lands. In 1929, Nugent School was opened in Loka, and from there Christianity became more widespread. The African Traditional Religions (ART) prepared some of the Pojulu to practice Christianity. Christian Pojulus have gathered to create and develop Christian institutions, such as St. Peters Yondoru, and to train Christian leaders.\n\nEducation to the Pojulu is lifelong. It takes place anywhere in the community, at work and at play and from cradle to the grave. Such education is defined as the \"aggregate of all the process by means of which a person develops abilities, attitudes, and other forms of behavior of positive value in the society in which they live\". Education includes all the learning experiences that shape one into a person.\n\nThe goals of Pojulu traditional education include:\n\nThe Pojulu initiated and developed their own indigenous system of education suited to their environment and for their needs. The Pojulu therefore have practiced education since their cultural formation.\n\nThe home is the child's first school in the Pojulu society. The fireplace is the classroom. It is here that the foundation should be laid for a life of service. Its principle is to be taught not merely in theory but in practice. They are to shape the whole personality and life of the Pojulu child.\n\nThe subject matter taught at home is various and wide. Very early the lesson of helpfulness is taught the child. As soon as strength and reasoning powers are sufficiently developed, they are given duties to perform at home. They are encouraged to help the father and the mother and convenience them first before their own needs, to watch for opportunities, to cheer and assist brothers, sisters, playmates and to show kindness to the aged, the sick, the old and the unfortunate. They are taught to find joy in service and sacrifice for the goods of others and the community at large.\n\nThe family circle, the neighbours and the tribal groupings exercised great influence and impact on the growth, development and education of the Pojulu child. This is the principle of communitarians, that the Pojulu child is not left to the parents to bring it up. The community also participates in the development and education of the child. The child is a collective responsibility of the parents, clan and the tribe.\n\nPojulu indigenous type of education starts at the time the child is born and ends with death. The Pojulu system of education is a participatory, practical system of education. It imparts what the child must know through the family and clan traditions. It is generally an informal education. In this system, there are no buildings, classrooms or schools, only the fireplace, big shady trees, etc., which provide the classrooms. Teachers are available in the person of the father, the mother, grandmother, baby-sitter, brothers and sisters, relatives and the entire community or neighbourhood.\n\nMost skills about knowledge about things and the environment are absorbed by children through observation and initiation of the elders and older peers. Some children learn by apprenticeship. The importance of both parents on the growing and developing child is of great value as they are closest to the child.\n\nParents and the community teach the children the laws and customs of the clan and tribe, which govern moral code, civic codes, and general rules of etiquette in the community. This category includes the study of civics, sociology and the tribal laws. The late president of Kenya, Mzee Jomo Kenyatta, wrote \"when the child has grown beyond childhood, the father takes charge of part of the boy's education, and the mother takes the whole responsibility of the girl's education and a part of the boy's education.\"\n\nThe girls do domestic duties to help their mothers, such as cooking and family care. They also learn preparation of land for planting and weeding of crops. The boys' duties include rearing domestic animals and gathering firewood for cooking and heat. Boys learn about vegetation identifying their types, uses and names—including various trees in the nearby forest. They learn which trees are useful for building houses and grain stores, such as those which resist white ants. They must identify which trees are good for making bows and arrows for weapons in hunting animals. The boys also learn about the birds: which are edible and/or harmful to crops; and how to trap or hunt them.\n\nThe boys and girls learn the plants that provide the Pojulu with herbal medicines, such as \"Dikori Ti – Melo\", in the community medicine tradition.\n\nThe first missionaries to enter Yei were Reverends Shaw and Gwynne in 1911. However missionary activity did not begin in Yei until 1917 when schools were founded; there had been a prevalence of sleeping sickness in the area, affecting both the Pojulu and missionaries.\nIn 1929, missionary work extended to Loka where Nugent School was opened for boys. This was the only Christian intermediate missionary school in Pojulu land. Lainya Technical School was also opened around the same time, for training in the trades, such as for carpenters, masons and brick makers, and plumbers.\n\nThe Roman Catholic Diocese of Yei built the Yei Girls' School in 1940. This school recruited pupils as far as Pojulu land in Loka and Lainya. Miss Gilbert became the headmistress of the Yei Girls' School, until retirement in the late 1960s. Pupils were taught in Bangalla, and later in Bari and English.\n\nThe long running Second Sudanese Civil War caused drastic changes in the lives of the Pojulu. Many were displaced and this eroded their social and family fabric. At its formal conclusion in 2005 a separate administrative unit was established separating the Pojulu from the Kakwa and others in Yei River District. In 2011 the Pojulu lands became part of the new nation of South Sudan.\n\nThe diaspora of the Pojulu people is highlighted by the move to Uganda, Kenya, Ethiopia, Democratic Republic of Congo (DRC), South Africa and Egypt. Others live in displaced people's camps in Juba, Sudan, Khartoum and other towns. Some are now living in the US, UK, Israel, Europe, New Zealand and Australia.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1500470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1500470", "title": "Pullela Gopichand", "text": "Pullela Gopichand\n\nPullela Gopichand (born 16 November 1973) is a former Indian badminton player. Presently, he is the Chief National Coach for the Indian Badminton team. He won the All England Open Badminton Championships in 2001 becoming the second Indian to achieve this feat after Prakash Padukone. He runs the Gopichand Badminton Academy. He received the Arjuna Award in 1999, the Dronacharya Award in 2009 and the Padma Bhushan – India's third highest civilian award – in 2014.\n\nPullela Gopichand was born on 16 November 1973 to Pullela Subash Chandra and Subbaravamma at Nagandla, Prakasam district, Andhra Pradesh . Initially, he was interested in playing cricket, but his elder brother encouraged him to take up badminton instead. His family settled in Nizamabad for a while. He did his schooling from St. Paul's High School, Hyderabad. He joined A. V. College, Hyderabad and graduated in public administration. He was the captain of the Indian combined universities badminton team in 1990 and 1991.\n\nGopichand was coached by S. M. Arif before Prakash Padukone accepted him at Prakash Padukone academy. He also trained under Ganguly Prasad at the SAI Bangalore. Gopichand won his first National Badminton Championship title in 1996, and went on to win the title five times in a row, until 2000. He won two gold and one silver at the Indian national games, 1998 held at Imphal. At the international level, he represented India in 3 Thomas Cup tournaments. In 1996 he won a gold in the SAARC badminton tournament at Vijayawada and defended the crown in the next games held at Colombo in 1997. At the 1998 Commonwealth Games, he won a silver in the team event and a bronze in men's singles. In 1999, he won the Toulouse open championship in France and the Scottish open championship in Scotland. He also emerged winner at the Asian satellite tournament held at Hyderabad in the same year, and lost in the final match of the German grand prix championship.\n\nIn 2001, he won the prestigious All England Open Badminton Championships at Birmingham. He defeated then world number one Peter Gade in the semi-finals before defeating Chen Hong of China to lift the trophy. He became the second Indian to achieve the feat after Prakash Padukone, who won in 1980.\n\nAfter retiring from his playing career, Pullela Gopichand founded the Gopichand Badminton Academy in 2008, after reportedly mortgaging his own house. Nimmagadda Prasad, a renowned industrialist donated ₹50 Million on a condition to win a medal for India at olympics in badminton. The academy produced several badminton players including Saina Nehwal, P. V. Sindhu, Parupalli Kashyap, Srikanth Kidambi, Arundhati Pantawane, Gurusai Datt and Arun Vishnu. Saina Nehwal went on to win the bronze medal at the 2012 Summer Olympics and P.V. Sindhu the silver medal at the 2016 Summer Olympics. Gopichand also served as the official Indian Olympic Badminton Team coach at the 2016 Brazil's Rio Olympics.\n\n\nGopichand married fellow badminton player P.V.V. Lakshmi on 5 June 2002. They have two children, a son named Vishnu and a daughter named Gayathri. His daughter Gayathri, who is the elder of the two siblings, is the current U-13 National Badminton Champion. His son Vishnu is currently training at Gopichand academy.\n"}
{"id": "7328180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7328180", "title": "Qiandao Lake incident", "text": "Qiandao Lake incident\n\nThe Qiandao Lake incident () refers to the 1994 kidnap and murder of Taiwanese tourists and local guides and staff in the Qiandao Lake scenic area, in Zhejiang, People's Republic of China (\"China\"). Insensitive treatment by the local government and police force after the event, including censoring information and unprofessional criminal investigation procedures, led to a public backlash in Taiwan (\"Republic of China\") against the Chinese government. This led to increased support in Taiwan for independence.\n\nOn March 31, 1994, a ferry named \"Hai Rui\" (海瑞号) was hijacked by three men in Qiandao Lake, located in Chun'an County, Hangzhou, in Zhejiang Province. The ship ended up on fire, and all 32 people on board at the time were killed, including 24 passengers from Taiwan, along with 6 Chinese crew and two Chinese tour guides.\n\nThe \"Hai Rui\" ferry was supposed to have returned on the night of the 31st. Instead, on the morning of April 1, it was discovered ablaze. The local civilians immediately reported it to the police. The police did not find any passengers or sailors on the ship initially, and the Chun'an County government organized police, on-duty troops and civilians to search in the Qiandao Lake region, but did not discover any of the missing passengers. After the fire was put out, the police discovered 32 bodies in the lower cabin of the ship. However, during the investigation of the case, the local police department did not inform the general public of the progress of the investigation. This led to the public's belief that the local government was blocking information, concealing the events and controlling the media.\n\nOn April 2, 1994, the Hangzhou police department arranged medical experts to analyze all the discovered bodies. On April 4, the families of the victims arrived in Chun'an County from Taiwan. China's Association for Relations Across the Taiwan Straits (ARATS) set up receptions in various cities to accommodate the families; at the same time, the Taiwanese Straits Exchange Foundation (SEF) requested assistance in getting the families to the scene of the incident, to deal with related issues, but this was refused by ARATS. On April 6, the Zhejiang provincial police department joined the investigation.\n\nOn the same day, the Zhejiang government invited Master Jiyun of the Hangzhou Lingyin Temple to do the ceremony that release souls from purgatory, but denied the families of the victims to visit the remains of the victims and the request to review the autopsy report. Under the protest of the families, the remains were cremated in Tonglu County in Hangzhou. The remains of the victims were given to the families to bury; the ashes of the Taiwanese tourists were given to their family for them to bring back to Taiwan with the assistance of the Taiwanese Changfeng Travel Agency.\n\nThe People's Republic of China local government initially reported this as a ship fire, but this statement was strongly opposed by the families of the victims and other Taiwanese people. The foreign media also issued all kinds of reports and speculations. On April 9, the then president of Taiwan Lee Teng-hui publicly criticized the Communist Party of China as acting \"like bandits\", and claimed that the case was robbery committed by Chinese People's Liberation Army soldiers, as had been claimed by Taiwanese intelligence. After the case was over, some thought that the reason that the provincial government of Zhejiang did not publicize case facts was not to jeopardise the investigation. But, there were other opinions that thought it was essentially censorship. On April 12, the vice president of the ARATS Tang Shubei met the deputy general secretary of the SEF Shi Qiping, and proclaimed that the incident was only a ship fire, and stressed that China authorities would deal with the problems created by the incident to their best ability.\n\nHowever, the Taiwanese side strongly disagreed with the statement by Tang. They believed that China local government initially blocked the information, and then refused to change its attitude. The Taiwanese authority responded to this by announcing \"all interflows between the two straights to be temporarily stopped\", and halted all tour travels to China starting May 1. The Board of Trade of the Taiwan stopped the discussion on the investment case to the China, and the Board of Education stopped the culture interflow between the two straits. The travel agencies were also halted from going on tour to the PRC. All the connections between Taiwan and China were nearly completely cut off.\n\nOn April 15 the three suspects were arraigned by the court. On April 17, the PRC Zhejiang provincial police department announced that the case had been solved, and that it was a \"major robbery, arson and murder case\". Three suspects were arrested. Two of the suspects were military personnel, one being a retired serviceman, another being the brother of an armed police officer. Regardless, the families of the victims questioned the possibility of 32 men subdued by three criminals. On April 18 the PRC Premier Li Peng announced talks to explain the case. On May 8, the Taiwanese SEF organized a group to go to the scene of the incident to comprehend the case. On June 3, PRC authorities in Hangzhou City announced public prosecution. On June 10, the common pleas of the Hangzhou City reached the last instance. During the trial, the ARATS invited the SEF to visit the public prosecution, and contacted the SEF once again before the last instance, but was refused by the SEF. The families of the victims also refused to visit the process of the trial.\n\nOn June 12, the verdict was made, and the three suspects Wu Lihong, Hu Zhihan, Yu Aijun were all charged of robbery and murder, and were sentenced to death. On June 19, the three convicted were executed.\n\nThe Chinese government avoided further clarification of several disputed points that the Taiwanese authorities addressed. The Taiwanese Mainland Affairs Council announced a statement on June 15 that criticized the way the PRC authorities treated the Qiandao Lake Incident, which may lead the case to be unsettled. Because evidence was unclear, information about the case could not be verified and therefore led to speculations and rumors. Eventually, the Qiandao Lake Incident turned from a regular criminal case into a serious political event.\n\nTo a greater extent, the Qiandao Lake Incident jeopardized the reconciliation on the relations between Taiwan and China. It was a crucial event that turned the public opinion of Taiwan around on the matters of Chinese reunification. The percentage of Taiwanese people that supported reunification decreased by a margin of 20% after the incident, while the percentage in support of Taiwan independence instantly went up by a margin of 10%. Around half the general population supported the present situation between Taiwan and China to be unchanged. These were the direct consequences of the incident, which displayed the dissatisfaction of the Taiwanese people against the China government. As a result, Taiwanese tourism in China suffered major setbacks, as the Taiwanese government temporarily halted group tour travel to China after the incident.\n\n"}
{"id": "38455192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38455192", "title": "QikPad", "text": "QikPad\n\nQikPad was a free collaboration software tool based on EtherPad that allowed multiple users to see text updates in real time.\n\nQikPad shut down in late 2014.\n\nQikPad allows multiple users to see updates made to a pad in real time. Users can collaborate on a range of different documents and projects.\n\nQikPad works with no sign-up required. Once a pad has been created, functions include:\n\nQikPad is a browser-based application that runs on various operating systems, including Windows, Mac OS and Linux. Tested browsers include Internet Explorer 7+, Firefox 3.0+, Chrome 4+, and Safari 4+.\n\nQikPad is a web-based tool, so will work on any computer with a broadband connection.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1148591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1148591", "title": "Randall Woodfield", "text": "Randall Woodfield\n\nRandall Brent \"Randy\" Woodfield (born December 26, 1950) is an American serial killer, rapist, kidnapper, and robber who was dubbed The I-5 Killer or The I-5 Bandit by the media due to the crimes he committed along the Interstate 5 corridor running through Washington, Oregon, and California. Before his capture, the I-5 Killer was suspected of multiple sexual assaults and murders. Though convicted in only one murder, he has been linked to a total of 18, and is suspected of having killed up to 44 people.\n\nA native of Oregon, Woodfield was the third child of a prominent Newport family. He began to exhibit abnormal behaviors during his teenage years, and was arrested for indecent exposure while still in high school. An athlete for much of his life, Woodfield played as a wide receiver for the Portland State Vikings, and was drafted by the NFL in 1974 to play for the Green Bay Packers, but was cut from the team during training after a series of indecent exposure arrests.\n\nIn 1975, he began a string of robberies and sexual assaults on women in Portland, which he committed at knifepoint. Between 1980 and 1981, Woodfield committed multiple murders in cities along the I-5 corridor in Washington, Oregon, and California; his earliest-documented murder was that of Cherie Ayers, a former classmate whom he had known since childhood, in December 1980. After committing numerous robberies, sexual assaults, and murders, Woodfield was arrested in March 1981, and convicted in June for the murder of Shari Hull and attempted murder of her co-worker, Beth Wilmot, and sentenced to life imprisonment plus 90 years. In a subsequent trial, he was convicted of sodomy and improper use of a weapon in a sexual assault case, receiving 35 additional years to his sentence.\n\nWoodfield has never confessed to any of the crimes he has been accused or convicted of. Though he has only been convicted of one murder and one attempted murder, he has been linked via DNA and other methods to numerous unsolved homicides in the ensuing decades. Authorities have estimated his total number of killings to be as a many as 44, and CBS News named him one of the deadliest serial killers in American history. He is currently incarcerated at the Oregon State Penitentiary.\n\nWoodfield was born December 26, 1950 in Salem, Oregon, the third child of an upper-middle-class family. His mother was a homemaker, and his father was an executive at Pacific Northwest Bell. He has two older sisters, one of whom went on to become a doctor, and the other an attorney. The Woodfield family was \"well-known and respected\" in their community.\n\nWoodfield was raised in Otter Rock, Oregon, a small seaside town on the central Oregon coast, approximately north of Newport. Popular among his peers, Woodfield was a football star at Newport High School. Though his childhood was by all accounts stable, Woodfield began to exhibit sexually dysfunctional behaviors during junior high school, particularly exposing himself in public. While in high school, Woodfield exposed himself to a group of teenage girls on Yaquina Bay Bridge, and was arrested for indecent exposure. His football coaches helped conceal the incident to prevent him from being ousted from the team, though his parents forced him to attend therapy over the incident.\n\nAfter graduating high school, Woodfield's criminal record was expunged, and he attended Treasure Valley Community College in Ontario, Oregon, later transferring to Portland State University in Portland in 1970, where he played for the Portland State Vikings as a wide receiver. At Portland State, he was active in Campus Crusade for Christ, a Christian student group, and lived in an apartment located on the South Park Blocks.\n\nGary Hamblet, Woodfield's football coach, recalled: \"When he was with me, he was the nicest, most gentlemanly kid I ever knew. He was quiet and polite, hard-working and real coachable. He sucked in everything I tried to coach him.\" Other teammates and peers of Woodfield recalled him as \"soft-spoken\" and \"kind of a loner\" who \"didn't have a lot of friends,\" but noted his athletic capabilities. Despite his thriving in college, Woodfield was arrested on several occasions for petty crimes: first in 1970 for vandalizing the apartment of his ex-girlfriend, and later in 1972 for public indecency in Vancouver, Washington. In 1973, he was arrested again for public indecency in Multnomah County.\n\nWoodfield chose to drop out of college three semesters shy of graduating with his B.S. in physical education, and was selected as a wide receiver in the 1974 NFL Draft by the Green Bay Packers in the 17th round (428th pick). Woodfield tried to establish himself with the Packers during Coach and General Manager Dan Devine's last season, but could not shake his problems with a trip across the country. He signed a contract in February 1974 but was cut during training camp, failing to make the team's final roster. After being cut by the Packers, Woodfield played the 1974 season with the semi-pro Manitowoc Chiefs and worked for Oshkosh Truck. A similar arrest, in Portland, earned him more suspended time in June 1973. In 1974, after a dozen \"flashing\" incidents called unwelcome attention to Woodfield, the Packers formally cut him from the NFL.\n\nWoodfield left Wisconsin in late 1974 and returned to Portland, disgraced by his failure to maintain his football career. In early 1975, several Portland women were accosted by a knife-wielding man, forced to perform oral sex and then robbed of their handbags. Law enforcement responded to the string of crimes by having female police officers act as decoys. On March 3, 1975, Woodfield was arrested after being caught with marked money from one of the undercover officers. Upon interrogation, he confessed to the crimes, blaming poor sexual impulse control, which he claimed was a result of his use of steroids. In April 1975, he pled guilty to reduced charges of second-degree robbery. Woodfield was sentenced to ten years in prison, but was freed on parole in July 1979, after having served four years.\n\nOn October 9, 1980, Cherie Ayers, an X-ray technician and former classmate of Woodfield, was raped and murdered in her apartment in the 9000 block of SW Ninth Place in downtown Portland. Her body was discovered on October 11 by her fiancé; she had been bludgeoned and stabbed repeatedly in the neck. Ayers, a University of Oregon graduate, had known Woodfield since second grade, having attended the same schools in Newport. During Woodfield's prior four-year imprisonment, he and Ayers had corresponded via letters. Suspecting Woodfield's involvement, Ayers' family provided his name to law enforcement; he was questioned but refused to sit for a polygraph test. Homicide detectives found his answers generally \"evasive and deceptive\" but, because his blood type did not match semen found in the victim's body, no charges were filed.\n\nOne month later, on the morning of November 27 (Thanksgiving Day), Woodfield arrived at the north Portland home of Darcey Renee Fix, 22, planning to assault her. Woodfield had known Fix during college as an ex-girlfriend of one his close friends. Douglas Keith Altig, 24, was at Fix's home when Woodfield arrived. Both Fix and Altig were subsequently bound and shot to death execution-style in the home, and Fix's .32-caliber revolver was missing from the scene. Due to his acquaintance with Fix, Woodfield was questioned in the murders, but law enforcement found no concrete evidence pointing to his involvement.\n\nAfter committing the murders of Fix and Altig, Woodfield began a series of robberies throughout the northwest: On December 9, 1980, Woodfield, wearing a fake beard, held up a Vancouver, Washington gas station at gunpoint. In Eugene, Oregon four nights later, on December 13, he raided an ice cream parlor; on December 14, he robbed a drive-in restaurant in Albany. During one of the robberies, Woodfield wore what appeared to be a Band-Aid or athletic tape across the bridge of his nose, similar to nasal strips worn by football players. On December 21, Woodfield (again wearing a false beard) accosted a waitress in Seattle, trapping her in a restaurant bathroom and forcing her at gunpoint to masturbate him.\n\nBy January 1981, law enforcement had dubbed the robber the \"I-5 Bandit\", given his apparent preference for committing crimes along the Interstate 5 corridor. On January 8, he held up the same Vancouver gas station he had robbed in December, this time forcing a female attendant to expose her breasts after he emptied the cash register. Three days later, on January 11, he robbed a market in Eugene. The next day, January 12, he shot and wounded a female grocery clerk at a store in Sutherlin, Oregon.\n\nOn January 14, a man matching the description of the I-5 bandit and wearing a false beard invaded a home occupied by two sisters, aged eight and ten; he forced the girls to disrobe and sexually assaulted them. Four days later, in Salem, a man matching the same description entered an office building and sexually abused two women, Shari Hull and Beth Wilmot, after which he killed Hull and wounded Wilmot, leaving her for dead. On January 26 and 29, he traveled to southern Oregon and committed robberies in Eugene, Medford and Grants Pass. In the latter location, two females, a clerk and customer, were assaulted by the robber.\n\nOn February 3, 1981, the bodies of Donna Eckard, 37, and her 14-year-old daughter were found together in a bed in their home at Mountain Gate, California, north of Redding. Each had been shot several times in the head. Forensic tests showed that the girl had also been sodomized. The same day in Redding, a female store clerk was kidnapped, raped and sodomized in a holdup. An identical crime was reported in Yreka on February 4, with the same man robbing an Ashland, Oregon motel that night. Five days later in Corvallis, a man matching the I-5 Bandit's description held up a fabric store, molesting the clerk and her customer before he left. On February 12, 1981, robberies committed by a man matching the I-5 Bandit's description occurred in Vancouver, Olympia, and Bellevue, Washington; the Olympia and Bellevue incidents included three sexual assaults.\n\nUpon an impending visit to Portland, Woodfield planned a Valentine's Day party at the city's downtown Marriott Hotel, inviting friends and acquaintances from college. After no guests came, Woodfield drove to the Beaverton home of 18-year-old Julie Reitz, whom Woodfield had met while working as a bouncer at The Faucet, a bar in Portland. He arrived at her home around 2 a.m. on February 15; around 4 a.m., he raped and then shot Reitz in the head, killing her. Police investigating the scene determined that Reitz had had a glass of wine with her attacker, and had also begun to prepare coffee: A package of instant coffee was discovered on the kitchen counter, and water in a kettle had been left to completely boil down.\n\nBy February 28, the investigation was now focused on Woodfield, but by then the I-5 Bandit had struck three more times: in Eugene on February 18 and 21, and with another sexual assault in Corvallis on February 25. Detectives in Marion County assembled a call log showing Woodfield had placed calls via calling cards at pay phones near the murder sites around the times they were committed.\n\nOn March 5, 1981, Woodfield was brought into the Salem Police Department for an interrogation after Lisa Garcia positively identified him in a photo lineup. His apartment in Springfield, Oregon was subsequently searched two days later by warrant; inside, law enforcement discovered a spent .32 shell casing inside a racquetball bag, as well as a roll of tape that matched the tape found on the victims. On March 7, Woodfield was taken into custody after being positively identified by several Oregon robbery victims. On March 16, indictments for murder, rape, sodomy, attempted kidnapping, armed robbery, and illegal possession of firearms were initiated from various jurisdictions in Washington and Oregon.\n\nIn the summer of 1981, Woodfield was tried in Salem for the murder of Hull, as well as charges of sodomy and attempted murder (of Wilmot). Wilmot testified against him in the trial, and was key in the prosecution's conviction. Chris Van Dyke, son of actor Dick Van Dyke, was the Marion County, Oregon District Attorney at the time and prosecuted the case. Van Dyke would later characterize Woodfield as \"the coldest, most detached defendant I've ever seen.\" On June 26, 1981, after three-and-a-half hours of deliberation, Woodfield was convicted on all counts and sentenced to life in prison plus 90 years.\n\nIn October 1981, a second trial was held in Benton County, in which Woodfield received sodomy and weapons charges tied to one of the attacks in a restaurant bathroom. Prior to this trial, his counsel attempted to move the trial from Willamette Valley; he felt that, owing to the publicity the case received, Woodfield would not get a fair trial there. The judge in the case denied counsel's request, along with a request to hypnotize a prosecution witness in an effort to determine if that witness had been influenced by the media coverage. Woodfield was convicted by the jury, and had an additional 35 years added to his already-instated sentence.\n\nDespite the apparent links with countless other crimes and homicides, Woodfield would not be prosecuted for the majority of the crimes he was believed to have committed. Unable to afford multiple trials, the State of Oregon was satisfied with Woodfield's existing life sentence.\n\nWoodfield is serving his sentences at the Oregon State Penitentiary in Salem. In October 1983, he was injured by a fellow inmate during a prison disturbance. In April 1987, Woodfield filed a $12 million libel suit against author Ann Rule, the true crime author who had written \"The I-5 Killer\". The account of Woodfield's life and crime spree became a best-selling book in 1984. The Federal Court in Oregon dismissed the lawsuit in January 1988, citing that the statute of limitations on such a lawsuit had been exhausted.\n\nBy 1990, after the discovery of more victims, Woodfield was suspected in as many as 44 homicides. In 2001 and 2006, DNA testing linked Woodfield to two additional murders in Oregon that occurred from 1980 and 1981.\n\nDuring his time in the penitentiary, Woodfield has married three times and divorced twice. Some letters he wrote from prison were eventually sold online as a collection titled, \"The Serial Killer Letters\" and published by The Charles Press. In one of these letters, he wrote to journalist Jennifer Furio:\n\nThe majority of Woodfield's victims were petite white women in their twenties, many of middle-class backgrounds. A great deal of his victims—particularly in instances of robbery and sexual assault—were young employees of restaurants and convenience stores located along Interstate 5, which Woodfield traversed in his 1974 Champagne Edition gold Volkswagen Beetle. In some instances, Woodfield's attacks were undertaken entirely at random, while in others, the murders were incited by rejected sexual advances. His level of acquaintance with his victims varied; some he knew personally, while others were complete strangers.\n\nDuring his robberies, assaults, and killings, Woodfield typically concealed his identity by wearing a hoodie, a fake beard, and most curiously, a strip of athletic tape across his nose. Police believe Woodfield may have done so to obscure his features and prevent victims from identifying him in a police lineup. Woodfield's victims were typically killed via gunshot, and his crimes were sexually-motivated.\n\nJim Lawrence, a detective for Portland's cold case unit, noted Woodfield's lack of remorse or responsibility in his crimes, saying: \"If you’re talking about somebody moving toward some form of rehabilitation, they had to at some point acknowledge they are responsible for their own behaviors. That is not Randy Woodfield.\" Lawrence also noted Woodfield's egotism during his early interrogations: \"When he was interviewed, he'd tell detectives that he'd never rape a girl. He said he didn't have to. They wanted him.\" Ann Rule, who documented Woodfield's crimes in her book \"The I-5 Killer\", suggested that rejection and feelings of inadequacy were factors that drove him to violence, particularly against women. She also characterized Woodfield as a \"smooth ladies' man\" whose good looks and disposition aided his ability to trap victims.\n\nUnlike many serial killers, whose killing patterns are characterized by intervals, or \"cooling off periods,\" Woodfield's murders and other crimes escalated rapidly, increasing in successive frequency.\n\nWoodfield never confessed to any of the murders of which he has been accused or linked to. Though convicted only in the murder of Shari Hull, Woodfield has been linked to numerous other murders via DNA and other methods; criminologists and detectives have provided estimated total numbers of killings ranging from 25 to as many as 44 unsolved homicides. Woodfield is also estimated to have committed at least 60 unsolved rapes. The following is a list of Woodfield's confirmed victims:\n\n\n\nRetracing Woodfield's movements along Interstate 5, law enforcement have identified at least 25 other potential murders, while other estimations suggest up to 44. Notable are Martha Morrison (17), who disappeared in Eugene, Oregon in September 1974, and was found murdered the following month near Vancouver, Washington; her remains were unidentified until 2015. Both Woodfield and Ted Bundy have been considered suspects in her murder.\n\nDuring the spring of 1980, Marsha Weatter (19) and Kathy Allen (18) vanished while hitch-hiking from the Spokane, Washington area to their hometown of Fairbanks, Alaska. Their bodies were found in May 1981; suspected serial killer Martin Lee Sanders was later connected to their murders, but as of 2018 the case remains unsolved.\n\nIn 2011, Woodfield was the subject of a Lifetime television film \"Hunt for the I-5 Killer\". The film was based on the book \"The I-5 Killer\" by Ann Rule. In the film, Woodfield is portrayed by Canadian actor Tygh Runyan.\n\nThe American deathcore band The I-5 Killer is named after Woodfield.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5440248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5440248", "title": "Reihendorf", "text": "Reihendorf\n\nThe Reihendorf (\"row village\", plural: \"Reihendörfer\") or Hufendorf (\"oxgang village\") is the name used of a particular form of linear settlement in German-speaking countries that is characterized by rows of houses situated along a linear object such as a riverbank, road, valley, or stream. \n\n\"Reihendörfer\" may consist of a one or two rows of houses or farmsteads; the latter being arranged either side of the village street. The farmland associated with each dwelling is adjacent to it, which has the advantage of saving time and reducing the effort involved in transportation. The farm can be worked just outside the farmyard or within it e.g. manure can be readily transported from stall to field and the harvest can be easily brought in to the barns. The farmers also have better oversight of their land.\n\nA \"Reihendorf\" does not usually have common land.\n\nSpecific forms of \"Reihendorf\" include the \"Straßendorf\", (\"road village\") which is an elongated village that runs along a road, the \"Waldhufendorf\", typical of forest clearings, the \"Marschhufendorf\", found in marshland, and the \"Hagenhufendorf\", which runs along one side of a river.\n\n"}
{"id": "2686250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2686250", "title": "Roberto Hernández (starting pitcher)", "text": "Roberto Hernández (starting pitcher)\n\nRoberto Heredia Hernández (born August 30, 1980) is a Dominican former professional baseball pitcher. He played in Major League Baseball (MLB) for the Cleveland Indians, Tampa Bay Rays, Philadelphia Phillies, Los Angeles Dodgers, Houston Astros and Atlanta Braves.\n\nHernández was a regular part of the Indians' starting rotation for six years under the name of Fausto Carmona, which he had used to obtain a visa to pitch in the United States. After his true name and age were revealed (he had claimed to be three years younger than he is), he missed much of the 2012 season due to lack of a valid visa, followed by a suspension from MLB for identity fraud. He returned as a regular starting pitcher with the Tampa Bay Rays in 2013 and the Philadelphia Phillies in 2014. In mid-2014, the Phillies traded him to the Los Angeles Dodgers.\n\nHernández (as Carmona) was signed as an amateur free agent by the Cleveland Indians on December 28, 2000. In 2003, he compiled a record of 17-4 with a 2.06 ERA in 24 starts for the Class-A Lake County Captains. This led to him being honored as the Most Outstanding Player of the South Atlantic League, receiving All-Star honors both from the South Atlantic League and for all of Class-A and he was named the Indians' 2003 Minor League Player of the Year (receiving the \"Lou Boudreau Award\"). He split 2004 between the Kinston Indians of the Carolina League and the Akron Aeros of the AA Eastern League. Combined, he was 10–10 with a 4.09 ERA in 28 starts.\n\nThe following year, 2005, he split between the Aeros and the AAA Buffalo Bisons of the International League. He was 13–9 with a 3.68 ERA in 26 starts.\n\nOn April 15, 2006, Hernández made his MLB debut when he started the game against the Detroit Tigers at Comerica Park. He pitched 6 innings giving up one earned run and striking out four. He earned the win, which was his only win of the season.\n\nOn July 20, 2006, the Indians traded closer Bob Wickman to the Atlanta Braves, and the Indians chose Hernández to fill the role. In the span of seven days (from July 30 through August 5), Hernández recorded four losses and three blown saves for the Indians, including walk-off home runs surrendered to Boston's David Ortiz and Detroit's Iván Rodríguez. Hernández lost the closer's role to Tom Mastny soon thereafter.\n\nAfter the closer experiment, Hernández was demoted to the Buffalo Bisons, the Indians' Class Triple-A affiliate, where he was placed back in a starter's role. He was promoted to Cleveland again in September, and finished the season as a starter. Hernández ended the 2006 season with a record of 1–10 and a 5.42 ERA.\n\nIn , Hernández was originally slated to be the Indians' spot starter and to start the season at the team's minor league affiliate, Triple-A Buffalo. However, after Cliff Lee went down with an abdominal strain in spring training that would force him to miss at least the first three weeks of the season, the Indians gave Hernández the opportunity to start in Lee's place. In his first start of the season on April 13, the Chicago White Sox battered him for six earned runs in innings.\n\nHernández quickly rebounded, holding the New York Yankees' potent offense to just 2 ER in 6 IP in his next start. He received a no decision, however, when Joe Borowski allowed six runs in the ninth inning to give the Yankees the win. Hernández settled into a groove and won his next five starts, allowing just 5 ER over 39 IP. In the streak, Hernández beat two-time American League Cy Young Award winner Johan Santana of the Minnesota Twins twice and in one of his starts against the Twins, center fielder Torii Hunter was quoted saying, \"I can't wait until we face normal pitchers. This guy's sinker is practically unhittable.\" The first victory came on April 24 in Minnesota, when Hernández allowed just 2 ER over IP. The second win came at home on May 17, when Hernández tossed his first career complete game shutout, scattering just four hits along the way.\n\nOn July 25, Hernández tossed eight shutout innings against the Boston Red Sox in a 1–0 Indians win. The victory capped a 5–0 July for Hernández. Hernández went on to go 19–8 with a 3.06 ERA and 215 innings pitched for the 2007 season.\n\nHernández received serious consideration for the AL Cy Young award, along with teammate CC Sabathia, Boston's Josh Beckett and the Angels' John Lackey. True to his dominant 2007 regular season form, Hernández, in his 1st career postseason game in Game 2 of the 2007 ALDS against the Yankees and Andy Pettitte, allowed 1 earned run on 3 hits over 9 innings in an extra-inning win for Cleveland. He finished fourth in the 2007 Cy Young vote.\n\nOn October 20, Hernández was battered by the Red Sox in Game 6 of the 2007 ALCS, surrendering seven runs in two plus innings. The big blow was J.D. Drew's first inning, two out Grand Slam to center field. He was knocked out of the game in the third inning of the Indians' 12–2 loss to the Sox at Fenway Park.\nOn April 10, , the Indians signed Hernández to a four-year $15 million contract extension through 2011 with three individual club options through 2014. If all options had been exercised, Hernández would have made $43 million, with another $5 million available in escalators.\n\nHernández started the 2008 season off strong before going down on May 24 with a left hip strain after running to cover first base. He stayed on the disabled list for 2 months before making his return to the starting rotation on July 26.\n\nOn September 19 against Detroit, Hernández hit Gary Sheffield with a pitch. The two exchanged words as Sheffield walked to first base with his bat tucked under this arm. Before the next pitch, Hernández made a pick-off throw to first base. Sheffield again started exchanging words with Hernández, and this time charged the mound inducing a bench-clearing brawl. Hernández was seen landing several punches to Sheffield's head, which left him bloodied. Hernández and Sheffield were both ejected, along with Indians catcher Víctor Martínez and Tigers second baseman Plácido Polanco.\n\nHernández had a subpar season, starting 24 games for Cleveland, going 5–12 with 6.32 ERA. He struck out 79 batters in 125.1 innings. The Indians finished the year 4th in the AL Central with 65–97 record. Hernández improved dramatically from 2009 and was honored with his 1st All Star selection. He had a 13–14 record with a 3.77 ERA, while striking out 124 batters in 210.1 innings.\n\nOn February 28, 2011, Indians Manager Manny Acta announced that Hernández had been selected as his starter for Cleveland's season opener against the Chicago White Sox. The April 1 start would be his first on opening day.\n\nIn front of a sellout crowd of 41,721 fans at Cleveland's ballpark Progressive Field, Hernández started the 2011 season for the Indians. Hernández posted the worst opening day start in Major League history, as he became the first starting pitcher to allow 10 runs in a team's first game. Hernández was the losing pitcher as he threw 88 pitches over 3.0 innings, allowed 11 hits, surrendered 2 home runs, walked 1, had 10 earned runs and left the game with an earned run average of 30.00. When pulled from the game, he was booed by fans. In that game, he became the first starting pitcher to allow 10 runs in a team's first game in over 60 years. The last pitcher to allow 10-plus runs in an opener was Early Wynn of the who accomplished the feat on April 19, 1948. In that game Wynn surrendered 12 runs but managed to pitch innings.\n\nOn July 16, 2012, Hernández was granted a visa to work in the U.S. On July 21, he began serving a 3-week suspension delivered by the MLB for age and identity fraud. While he served the suspension, Hernandez was allowed to pitch simulated games and in the minors. He rejoined the Indians on August 11. He started his first game since 2011 on August 15 against the Los Angeles Angels of Anaheim. He ended the season with a 7.53 ERA in innings.\n\nHernández was signed by the Tampa Bay Rays on December 18, 2012 to a 1-year contract. He was named their number 5 starter before the season. He recorded his first career win under his real name on April 21. On July 30, 2013 Hernandez recorded his first complete game with the Rays, a 5-2 defeat of the Arizona Diamondbacks.\n\nThe Philadelphia Phillies signed Hernández for the 2014 season for $4.5 million. After five starts, during which he compiled a 5.81 ERA, he was available to pitch out of the bullpen, as off days meant the Phillies would not need him for over a week. Around that time, Phillies analyst Ricky Bottalico commented, \"All in all, I like what I've seen from Roberto Hernandez early in the ball games, but it's seems to be fourth, fifth, sixth innings, you're seeing a laboring guy out there. The one thing he's got to do is relax himself. It seems like he's trying to be a little too fine with his pitches. When you do that as a pitcher and you're not relaxed, you're going to make mistakes ... one thing he can do is take a deep breath. Getting deeper into games is getting tougher and tougher for him.\" Subsequently, he rebounded, and had totaled 23 appearances (20 starts) with the Phillies, during which he posted an ERA of 3.87.\n\nOn August 7, 2014, Hernández was traded to the Los Angeles Dodgers for either two players to be named later or cash considerations (the players turned out to be minor leaguers Jesmuel Valentín and Víctor Arano). He made his first start as a Dodger the following day, allowing two runs in six innings against the Milwaukee Brewers. Hernández started nine games for the Dodgers, with a 2–3 record and 4.74 ERA.\n\nHernández signed a minor league contract with the Houston Astros in February 2015. He was designated for assignment on July 29, 2015 to create room for Jed Lowrie who was activated from the disabled list. He was released on August 9.\n\nHernández signed a minor league contract with the Toronto Blue Jays on December 18, 2015, that included an invitation to spring training and a March 28 opt-out. He exercised his March 28 opt-out after learning he would not make the Opening Day roster. Had he made the team out of spring training, the contract would have paid Hernández $1.25 million for the 2016 season. He signed another minor league contract with the Jays on April 20, and was to report to extended spring training. Hernández was assigned to the Triple-A Buffalo Bisons on April 27, and released on July 3.\n\nOn July 15, 2016, Hernández signed a minor league contract with the Atlanta Braves. He was added to the Braves roster in August, and designated for assignment on August 12 after making two starts.\n\nHernández is known for his hard sinker and exhibiting good control of his pitches. He did not throw exceptionally hard when he debuted in the minor leagues at age 21, but has since developed a fastball that can reach 97 mph. He also throws a slider and a changeup, but relies mostly on his hard sinker to get many ground ball outs.\n\nIn January 2012, Dominican police arrested Hernández after he left the U.S. Consulate, accusing him of using a false identity to obtain a visa. Police reported his real name as Roberto Heredia Hernández, and that he is three years older than he reported. The Indians placed Hernández on the restricted list. Officials in both countries received assistance in the case from a woman in the Dominican Republic who claimed she falsified a birth certificate for Hernández in exchange for $26,000, but when Hernández's father failed to pay her, she contacted the authorities. Hernández has stated that Fausto Carmona was his grandfather. \n"}
{"id": "47094309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47094309", "title": "Romani people in Morocco", "text": "Romani people in Morocco\n\nSome reports suggest the existence of Romani people in Morocco. Thomas (2000) states that \"Xoraxane or Muslim Gypsies have been reported in Morocco. It is suspected that Kalo (or Calo) Gypsies from Spain have migrated to Morocco for business reasons. However no government statistics can substantiate this supposition. Similarly, it may be true that French speaking Gypsies or Manouche may have in the past or still today traveled and worked in Morocco but there is no evidence of this at the moment.\"\nPhillips (2001) mentions rather speculatively that \"Some Kali or Gitan are probably in Morocco.\" The available reports are not sufficiently precise to confirm the Romani identity or even existence of such groups, but in the event that they exist and are of Romani origin, they would have immigrated to the territory of the present day Morocco ultimately from South Asia, and proximately from Spain and/or Algeria.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22543346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22543346", "title": "Roper Center for Public Opinion Research", "text": "Roper Center for Public Opinion Research\n\nThe Roper Center for Public Opinion Research at Cornell University is one of the world’s leading archives of social science data, specializing in data from public opinion surveys. The Center’s mission is to collect, preserve, and disseminate public opinion data; to serve as a resource to help improve the practice of survey research; and to broaden the understanding of public opinion through the use of survey data in the United States and abroad. Founded in 1947 by Elmo Roper, the Roper Center holds data ranging from the 1930s, when survey research was in its infancy, to the present. Its collection now includes over 22,000 datasets and adds hundreds more each year. In total, the archive contains responses from millions of individuals on a vast range of topics.\n\nMost of the surveys in the Roper Center were conducted on national samples, but there are also some state and local surveys, as well as a number of surveys of special populations of interest. Nearly all of the surveys are based on representative samples drawn according to the best practices of the time. Most of the data are from the United States, but over 100 nations are represented. Since its beginning, the Roper Center has focused on surveys conducted by the news media and commercial polling firms. However, it also holds many academic surveys, including important historical collections from the National Opinion Research Center and Princeton University's Office of Public Opinion Research.\n\nThe Roper Center has a strong presence in the public opinion community and maintains cooperative relationships with other archives around the world. Its board of directors contains representatives from both academic and commercial public opinion research. The Roper Center moved from the University of Connecticut to Cornell University in 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "243943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=243943", "title": "Ruhrdeutsch", "text": "Ruhrdeutsch\n\nRuhrdeutsch (Ruhr German) is a German variety of Low German spoken in the Ruhr area. Most linguists consider it a regiolect. Ruhrdeutsch as a concept has to be understood as a group of many differing regional and local variants, based on the different dialects existing in this partly Rhenish, partly Westphalian area before the industrialization.\n\nThrough immigration its vocabulary has been influenced by Polish and Yiddish to a small extent, although this influence has proved to be smaller than thought.\n"}
{"id": "19487297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19487297", "title": "S. P. B. Charan", "text": "S. P. B. Charan\n\nSripathi Panditharadhyula Gonda Balasubrahmanyam Charan , popularly known as S. P. B. Charan, or Charan is an Indian film playback singer, actor and producer known for his works primarily in Tamil cinema.\n\nSon of popular Indian singer S. P. Balasubrahmanyam, he first worked as a playback singer in Tamil and Telugu cinema. He ventured into acting with the 2003 Kannada film \"Hudugigagi\" and is probably best known for his performance in the 2008 film \"Saroja\". He has established a film production company called Capital Film Works, and produced several Tamil films, including the cult hit \"Chennai 600028\" in 2007 and the National Film Award-winning \"Aaranya Kaandam\" in 2012.\n\nCharan was born to singer S. P. Balasubrahmanyam and his wife, Savitri in a Telugu Brahmin family. He was born and raised in Chennai. He has a sister, Pallavi. He received a bachelor's degree in Business Administration from Pace University in New York, USA in 1997 and completed a two-year course in Film and Television.\n\nCharan first acted with his father in a film called \"Maha Yedabidangi\", directed by K. S. L. Swamy, but the film was not released. Balachander's son Kailasam approached him to act in the television serial \"Oonjal\", produced by K. Balachander and directed by Sundar K. Vijayan. It was followed by Radan's \"Annamalai\". He also starred in a TV serial named \"Bommaigal\" in Tamil and \"Akka Chellulu\" in Telugu. His first release was the Kannada film \"Hudugigagi\" in 2003, directed by B. Manjunath. In 2008, he played one of the lead roles in Venkat Prabhu's \"Saroja\". On his performance, Sify wrote: \"S.P.B Charan as Jagapathy Babu suits the role and is fantastic\". He acted in \"Va\", in which he played Shiva's prospective brother-in-law. He acted in two Tamil films \"Vanavarayan Vallavarayan\" and \"Vizhithiru\".\n\nCharan established the film production company Capital Film Works, in 2002. Their first production was the film \"Unnai Charanadainthen\", in which Charan played the lead role, alongside his friend Venkat Prabhu. The film, which notably featured musical score by Charan's father, Balasubrahmanyam, received four Tamil Nadu State Film Awards. Charan revealed that he decided to produce the film after hearing Samuthirakani's narration. He further produced the Jayam Ravi-starrer \"Mazhai\" (2005), a remake of the Telugu film \"Varsham\", which was not well received. His next production was Venkat Prabhu's directorial debut \"Chennai 600028\" (2007), considered a trend-setting film that featured 11 newcomers in the lead and became one of 2007's biggest commercial as well as critical successes. In 2011, his sixth production \"Aaranya Kaandam\", was released to critical acclaim and became noted for getting 52 cuts by the regional Central Board of Film Certification. Although it did not achieve the expected box office success, Charan won a Swarna Kamal at the 59th National Film Awards as a producer of the film. His next production will be \"Thirudan Police\", by another debutant, Caarthick Raju.\n\nCharan began working as a playback singer in 1997 with \"Deepangal pesum\" from \"Devathai\", under Ilaiyaraaja's direction. About being the son of an icon, he stated: \"my voice sounds so much like appa, people might not want to use a similar voice. When SPB himself is rocking, why would composers need his clone?\" He has sung for composers A. R. Rahman and Devi Sri Prasad. Charan's most popular songs include \"Nagila Nagila\" from \"Alaipayuthey\", \"Mellaga\" from \"Varsham\", \"Nenu Nenuga Lene\" from \"Manmadhudu\", \"I Love you Shailaja\" from \"Mazhai\", \"Please Sir\" from \"Boys\", \"Maaja Maaja\" from \"Jillunu Oru Kadhal\", \"Oru Nanban Irundhal\" from \"Enakku 20 Unakku 18\", \"O Shanti\" from \"Vaaranam Aayiram\", \"Nee Naan\" from \"Mankatha\". In 2010, he recorded a song on the \"Kadhal 2 Kalyanam\" soundtrack for Yuvan Shankar Raja and recorded with his father for the first time in Tamil for the film \"Aadukalam\", for which they both won the Vijay Award for Best Male Playback Singer.\n\nIn 1996, he and childhood friends Venkat Prabhu and Premgi Amaren set up a music band called Next Generation, which also had Yugendran and Thaman as members.\n\nIn September 2011, Sona Heiden pressed sexual assault charges against Charan after an encounter at a party. While on bail, he counter-sued for defamation. In a deal brokered by his father, the case was withdrawn after Charan made an apology. After his first marriage ended in divorce, he married again in early 2012. Charan underwent a notable weight loss in late 2010. In response to speculation, he stated it was in response to becoming health-conscious.\n\nList of songs sung by S. P. B. Charan.\n"}
{"id": "45321575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45321575", "title": "Social protection in Armenia", "text": "Social protection in Armenia\n\nSocial protection is an important state institution, which deals with the population's social protection and realization of people's social rights.\n\nState social protection system of the Republic of Armenia is financed by the state budget. The services provided within this institution are free for citizens. Ministry Labour and Social Affairs coordinates the services provision process.\n\nThe Ministry of Public Assistance was established in November 1918, at the time when the second Government of the First Republic of Armenia was reorganizing. On April 8, 1919 it was renamed “The Ministry of Labor and Public Assistance”. Until July 5, 1919 the Ministry of Food used to organize food purchasing and distributing works. But, on July 5, 1919 the Ministry of Food being dissolved, its functions were transferred to the Ministry of Labor and Public Assistance. On January 8, 1920 the Ministry was renamed “The Ministry of Reconstruction and Public Assistance”. It comprised the Orphanage, Migration, Labor Organization, Medical and Sanitary, Labor Protection, Architecture and Construction Departments. \n1918–1920 were particularly hard times; the First World War, the Genocide of 1915 and lasting wars with the Turks had left behind hundreds of thousands of refugees. Finally, the Armenian people gained the independence they had been dreaming of for ages. The First Republic of Armenia was established, ready to move on and withstand all difficulties. Despite all these hardships, the Ministry of Reconstruction and Public Assistance had representatives both in Georgia and Azerbaijan, making allocations to fulfill the basic needs of the Armenians, living in Georgia and Azerbaijan. One Minister often headed up more than one Ministry at the time since there were problems within the Republic, as well as urgent issues related to borders’ defense, weapon acquisition and foreign relations. In general, the Ministers of those times were literate and highly educated national leaders.\n\nWhen Armenia became part of the Soviet Union, Bolshevik leaders came to replace those Ministers. They were conceptualized and highly educated national leaders, who afterwards got high-ranking positions but were fusilladed in 1937. \nOn December 8, 1920 the Ministry was organized as the Commissariat of Reconstruction and Care. Later, on December 21 it was renamed “People’s Commissariat for Social Security”. On March 12, 1925 it was again renamed and this time bore the name of “People’s Commissariat of Labor and Social Security”. In 1946, the Ministry for Social Security of the ASSR (Armenian Soviet Socialist Republic) was once again reorganized. The Ministry consisted of the Pensions and Benefits Department, Job Placement and Household Management, Supervising, Controlling, Medical-Working Expertise, Financial, Planning, Capital Construction and Administrative Departments, Central Accountancy and Individual Pensioners’ Inspectorate.\nThe Ministry headed the Departments responsible for Pensions and Benefits Calculation and Payout, as well as Republic Centers of Information and Computing, Boarding Houses for the disabled, the elderly and children, the Experimental-Industrial Enterprise of Prosthetics and Orthopedics, and the Clinic of Prosthetics and Medical-Working Expertise, the Committees of Republic, Regional and District Medical-Working Expertise, the Deaf and Dump Associations, the Social Security Departments of the Regional and City Soviets of the People’s Deputies.\n\nIn 1990, in the post-Soviet period, the RA Ministry for Social Security was reorganized into the Ministry of Labor and Social Security.\nAfter the parliamentary elections of 1995, according to the Presidential Decree, the Government structure underwent changes; the Ministry was reorganized into the Ministry of Social Security, Employment, Migration and Refugee Affairs.\nIn 1996, according to the Presidential Decree, the Government underwent new structural changes. On November 8, 1996 the Ministry was reorganized into the Ministry of Social Security. On February 28, 2000 according to the RA President’s Decree, the Ministry was merged into the Ministry of Health and Social Security. \nOn May 20, 2000 according to the RA President’s Decree, the Ministry was separated as the RA Ministry of Social Security. On December 25, 2003 pursuant to the RA President’s Decree, it was renamed the Ministry of Labor and Social Affairs.\nThe first years of these transitional period were incredibly hard ones for the Armenian people. The consequences of the earthquake of 1988 ( it had destroyed the third of the country’s territory and killed about 25 thousands of people) were still vivid, let alone the blockade, the immigration of the displaced persons (DP), the energy crisis, unemployment and so on.\n\nIn 1992, it was officially announced that the poverty rate in the Republic reached 94%. It meant that people were desperate, and the country which had just gained independence could not overcome the socio-economic difficulties all alone. The RA Government was implementing economic reforms at the time, the Legislative Field was in the formation process.\nHumanitarian aid was of primary importance. The RA President assigned the RA Government to set up a system that would organize the works on addressed distributions of the humanitarian aid. A working group of relevant specialists was formed, a clear set of regulations elaborated, and the “Paros” system realized.\nIn order to make this system operate, there was formed the Social Services’ Institute within the Ministry of Social Security. It had its own territorial offices contributing to the “Paros” system implementation. The latter came to distinctly specify the poverty rate among needy families as well as regulate the operative and unbiased distribution of the provided humanitarian aid. \nSocial Services were funded from the State budget. Beneficiary services were provided free of charge. The RA Ministry of Labor and Social Security was in charge of the coordination of those social services, as well as conducted the unified policy, carried out the methodological and organizational assistance.\n"}
{"id": "32236297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32236297", "title": "Sociedad Coral de Bilbao", "text": "Sociedad Coral de Bilbao\n\nThe Bilbao Choral Society (Sociedad Coral de Bilbao) is an association devoted to fostering musical activity. Founded in 1886 under the name \"Orfeón Bilbaíno\", the Bilbao Choir (in Basque known as \"Bilboko Koral Elkartea\") is a non-profit cultural association declared \"of General Interest\" by the Basque Autonomous Government. Nowadays it comprises three adult choirs and a conservatory choir.\n\nDuring its long life, the Society has been awarded numerous prizes and distinctions, both in Spain and abroad, such as the Medal of Merit in the Beautiful Arts on the occasion of its 100th anniversary.\n\nThe senior Choir started in 1886 with Choirmaster Cleto Zabala, featuring only male voices. A few years later women were admitted. Throughout the choir's long career, it has been conducted by the following masters: Aureliano Valle, Jesús Guridi, Arturo Inchausti, Timoteo Urrengoechea, J. M. Olaizola, Modesto Arana, Rafael Frühbeck de Burgos, Juan Cordero, Urbano Ruiz Laorden, Julen Ezkurra, Gorka Sierra, Iñaki Moreno, Joan Cabero, Julio Gergely and actually by Enrique Azurza.\n\nThe Choir specialises in the great Symphonic-choral repertoire and has worked with many important conductors, namely: Fernández Arbós, Pérez Casas, Wladimir Golscham, Jesús Arámbarri, Lamote de Grignon, Ataúlfo Argenta, Jascha Horenstein, Sir Malcolm Sargent, Odón Alonso, Antoni Ros Marbá, Miguel Angel Gómez Martínez, Moshe Atzmon, Mstislav Rostropovich, Theo Alcántara, Michel Plasson, Víctor Pablo Pérez, Jan Lathan-Koenig, Arturo Tamayo, Aldo Ceccato, Hans Graf, Juanjo Mena, Gianandrea Noseda, Elio Boncompagni, Michaël Schönwadt, Georges Prêtre, Alexander Rahbari, John Nelson, Josep Pons, Jerzy Semkow, Alexandre Dmitriev, Yutaka Sado, Martin Haselböck, Michiyoshi Inoue, Eric Whitacre and Chistoph Spering.\n\nThe Bilbao Choir regularly takes part in Stage Productions of operas and zarzuelas and even representations of works like Claude Debussy's \"Le Martyre de Saint Sébastien\", together with the avant-garde stage company La Fura dels Baus.\n\nThe work of the Society also includes choral works and operas of composers such as Mikis Theodorakis (Medea, 1990; premiered at the Arriaga Theatre in Bilbao) and Francisco Escudero (\"Gernika\", opera; presented in Concert version)).\n\nThe Choir has premiered in Spain such works as Johannes Brahms's \"Ein Deutsches Requiem\", Carl Orff's \"Carmina Burana\", Giuseppe Verdi's \"Requiem\", Gyorgy Ligeti's \"Requiem\", Felix Mendelssohn-Bartholdy's \"Elijah\" or Vaughan Williams' \"Hodie\". A female section of the choir presented in the Guggenheim Bilbao Museum atrium Mike Oldfield's \"Music of the Spheres\"\n\nRecent recordings, mostly of stage music include \"Goyescas\", opera by Enric Granados; Puccini's \"Turandot\", Francisco Escudero's \"Gernika\", as well as Jesús Guridi's \"Amaya\" and \"El Caserío\".\n\nThe Euskeria Choir is the junior choir of the society. It is currently conducted by Urko Sangroniz.\n\nThe Conservatory Choir, or Children Choir, was founded in 1984 by Gorka Sierra. José Luis Ormazabal has been chorus master since 1995. The Choir has performed all over Spain, including the Auditorio Nacional in Madrid, with Mahler's 8th Symphony. Their most relevant recording includes works by Spanish composers Antón García Abril and Jesús Guridi.\n\n"}
{"id": "2110601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2110601", "title": "Société Anonyme (art)", "text": "Société Anonyme (art)\n\nSociété Anonyme, Inc. was an art organization founded in 1920 by Katherine Dreier, Man Ray and Marcel Duchamp. The society sponsored lectures, concerts, publications, and exhibitions of modern art, including the International Exhibition of Modern Art at the Brooklyn Museum in 1926. Between 1920 and 1940 they held 80 exhibitions showing mostly Cubist and abstract art.\n\nMan Ray picked the name \"Société Anonyme\", having seen it in French magazines, but knowing little French, assumed it referred to some anonymous society. It actually means \"Corporation\", but Duchamp thought it a fine name and later while the legal paperwork was being written up the \"Inc.\" was added, making its English translation, \"Corporation, Inc.\".\n\nThe Société's headquarters in New Jersey closed in 1928, but Dreier continued to organize events, and accumulate artwork to add to the Société Anonyme's collection. Dreier donated the collection to the Yale University Art Gallery in 1941.\n\nOn April 30, 1950, the 30th anniversary of the Société Anonyme's first exhibition, Dreier and Duchamp hosted a dinner at the New Haven Lawn Club, where they formally dissolved the organization. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "4823001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4823001", "title": "Ulysses Club", "text": "Ulysses Club\n\nThe Ulysses Club is a club for motorcyclists over age 40 in Australia. A sibling organisation of the same name exists in New Zealand.\n\nThe Ulysses Club was formed for motorcyclists aged 40 years and older at the instigation of Stephen Dearnley in Sydney, Australia in December 1983 in reply to a letter in the now defunct \"Bike Australia\" magazine, the editor being Peter \"The Bear\" Thoeming. The name \"Ulysses Club\" was the idea of Rob Hall, while the club's motto of \"Grow Old Disgracefully\" was devised by his then-girlfriend Pat Lynch. Peter \"The Bear\" Thoeming sketched the \"old man\" logo that is still used by the club in its original hand-sketched form. The inaugural meeting of the club was held in Sydney on 6 December 1983 when the five people present approved a draft constitution and the \"Ulysses Club\" was duly formed. From this meeting a draft constitution was adopted, and the three basic principles or purposes of the club were formulated. These principles are:\n\n\nThese original purposes are entrenched in the club's constitutions and have remained unchanged.\nAt that initial meeting the five founding members became an interim management committee, until two months later, on 7 February 1984, 11 of the club's total membership of 25 members attended the club's first annual general meeting, formally electing the very first National Committee and adopting the club's constitution.\n\nThe name comes from \"Ulysses\" by Alfred, Lord Tennyson. It tells how the great Greek hero Ulysses, now middle-aged and securely in charge of his kingdom of Ithaca, is getting bored with things around him and longs to go adventuring again with his shipmates of old. It describes very well indeed the sort of person who still has enough spark to go on riding into middle and later years.\n\nIt is the largest organisation of its kind with over 138 branches in Australia and it now has branches in Germany, Vietnam (2008), South Africa (1997), Norway, Zimbabwe, the Netherlands, Switzerland, France, Great Britain and Cuba, with external members of the Australian club in Italy, Papua New Guinea, Singapore, Fiji, China, Austria, Thailand and the United States.\n\nMembership of the club is open to any person, subject to National Committee approval, who has attained the age of 40 years and who holds a current motorcycle licence.\nAdditionally, the spouse or regular companion of a member, who has attained the age of 40 years, may also be admitted as a member on application.\nMembership now stands around 16,000.\n\nA number of New Zealanders joined the Ulysses Club in the 1980s, creating an informal \"New Zealand branch\" with about 100 members, but the cost of administering members across the Tasman and sending them the newsletter cost the club more than the membership fees, so in 1988 the Secretary Pete Reynolds visited members in Hawkes Bay and Invercargill and encouraged them to form a New Zealand organisation. By the end of 1988, the New Zealand Ulysses Club has a membership of 360.\n\nBy early 2013, the club had 3000 current members in 29 branches.\n\nThe club's annual general meeting (AGM) is held each year between 1 January and 30 June. The purpose of the AGM is to affirm minutes of the previous meeting, receive reports, consider the financial statements for the year ending 31 December previous and to elect office bearers.\n\n== ULYSSES CLUB NATIONAL RALLY\n\nEach year the Ulysses Club National Rally is held in a different location throughout Australia. The locations of the Ulysses Club National Rally are chosen by the National Committee and ratified by the Extended NatCom meeting, usually three years prior to the event being held. The Ulysses Club National Rally event has formal fixtures running for four days of the event, namely the Road Safety Forum on the Thursday, the Extended NatCom meeting held on the Friday, the Grand Parade and Opening / Civic Ceremony on the Saturday morning and the AGM itself on the Saturday afternoon. These are followed by the Saturday night dinner and the Sunday morning church service, and finally the closing ceremony after the church service.\nAdditional to these fixtures, trade displays, bike test rides, organised rides, and social gatherings have been included in past events by the host committee, starting as early as the Monday preceding the actual meeting weekend, for the benefit and entertainment of visiting members.\n\nIn 2009 the Annual General Meeting was held in Penrith, New South Wales and attracted some 3,500 members to the city. Albany, Western Australia was the scene of the 2010 Annual General Meeting and club members camped at Centennial Oval for the week of the event. Approximately 3200 members attended the event.\n\nThe 2011 annual general meeting was held in Newcastle, New South Wales with about 3,000 members participating in the parade through town prior to the meeting commencing. In 2012 Mildura was selected as the venue for the event with approximately 4,000 members attending and contributing between 5 to 10 million to the local economy.\n\n"}
{"id": "39699359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39699359", "title": "Women in Bulgaria", "text": "Women in Bulgaria\n\nWomen in Bulgaria are European women who live in and are from Bulgaria. Women's position in Bulgarian society has been influenced by a variety of cultures and ideologies, including\nthe Byzantine and Ottoman cultures, Eastern Orthodox Christianity, communist ideology, and contemporary globalized Western values.\n\nBulgarian women live in a society that is customarily patriarchal. While Bulgaria is often described as a patriarchal society, women may have substantial authority in household budgeting or agricultural decision making. Both men and women have the right to vote and own property. Despite decades of socialist ideology of gender equality, women are often employed in lower paying jobs, remain responsible for most household chores, and represent more than half the registered unemployed. They also occupy leadership positions less frequently than men. In 1996, fewer than 14 percent of postsocialist parliamentary representatives have been women, and only one in five municipal councilors were women in that year. By 2014, women represented 20.4% of the Parliament.\n\nLimited women's suffrage was first granted in 1937, and women obtained full voting rights in 1944. During the communist era nevertheless, civil rights and freedoms for both women and men were merely symbolic, due to the authoritarian nature of the government. As of 2017, there were 23.8% women in parliament.\n\nMany women entered paid employment during the socialist era, when an ideology of gender equality was promoted, and they made up nearly half the workforce in the late twentieth century. Women are frequently employed as teachers, nurses, pharmacists, sales clerks, and laborers, and less often involved in management, administration, and technical sciences. Women are also largely responsible for household tasks—child care, cooking, cleaning, and shopping. Agricultural labor is divided according to gender, with men working with animals and machinery and women doing more hand labor in crop production, although flexibility exists in response to specific situations. Despite this, the gender segregation in the workforce is somewhat less pronounced in Bulgaria than in other European countries. Compared to the European average, Bulgarian women have a higher involvement in traditionally male fields such as science, maths, computing and engineering; and a lower involvement in the service field. Also, the gender pay gap (in 2013) is 13.0% in Bulgaria, which is lower than the European Union average of 16.2%.\nAs of 2014, the employment rate (age 15-64) for women was 58.2% while for men it was 63.9%. The employment rate for both sexes has been relatively low during the past two decades, due to hardships experienced by the national economy after the fall of the communism. Nevertheless, the exact involvement in the labour force is quite difficult to determine, due to the presence of the unregulated informal sector. According to World Bank, women in 2014 made up 46.6% of the total labour force, pretty much the same as in 1990 (47.9%). Bulgarian women's strong involvement in the economy can be seen in the fact that almost all employed women work full-time - the highest percentage among employed women in the EU. Before the communist era, Bulgaria (like other Eastern European countries) was a largely rural agricultural society, with women being integrated in the rural agricultural work. As such, they occupied a relatively high status in society (although not equal to men). Under the communist regime, the country was industrialized and \"modernized\", and people came from rural areas to urban areas. The communist new ideology and economy integrated women in paid employment - in the late 1970s, Bulgaria had the highest percentage of working women in the world. Women were integrated in almost all fields, including science and medicine, nevertheless they were strictly under the control of the state, were educated to be submissive to the state authorities (who were mostly male), and had very little power of self-expression. The fall of the communist had mixed results for women: while their economic security was affected (although this affected men too - as both men and women lost, in large numbers, their state-guaranteed jobs), women got the newly discovered freedom to open business, freely pursue artistic and cultural activities, and have freedom of speech. While the newly emerging, 'wild', unrestricted capitalism of the 1990s was often hostile to women, many women have, in fact, succeeded: one-third of company owners and top managers in Bulgaria are women. The high involvement of women in business is common to countries in the Eastern European region: \"Overall, Eastern Europe continues to top the rankings in gender equality, with 35 percent of senior roles in the region held by women and just 16 percent of businesses with no women in senior management\", according to a 2007 study.\n\nThe literacy rate is slightly lower for women compared to men: the literacy rate is 98.1% for females, while for males it is 98.7% (aged 15 or older, data from 2015). Illiteracy is particularly high among Roma women.\n\nThe Constitution of Bulgaria provides for gender equality: Art. 6.(1) All persons are born free and equal in dignity and rights. (2) All citizens shall be equal before the law. There shall be no privileges or restriction of rights on the grounds of race, national or social origin, ethnic self-identity, sex, religion, education, opinion, political affiliation, personal or social status or property status\".\n\nBeing part of the European Union (since 2007), Bulgaria is subject to its directives. Bulgaria is also a party to CEDAW. Bulgaria has ratified the Council of Europe Convention on Action against Trafficking in Human Beings in 2007.\n\nDiscrimination is legally prohibited. The \"Protection Against Discrimination Act\" (2004) is Bulgaria's main anti-discrimination law. At Article 4 it states: \"Any direct or indirect discrimination on grounds of gender, race, nationality, ethnicity, human genome, citizenship, origin, religion or belief, education, convictions, political affiliation, personal or social status, disability, age, sexual orientation, marital status, property status, or on any other grounds established by law or by an international treaty to which the Republic of Bulgaria is a party, shall be banned.\" \n\nWomen and men have equal legal rights. Both men and women own property such as land, buildings, and animals, and inheritance is partible (i.e., property is divided among all heirs rather than going to a single heir). In practice, some heirs may be disinherited or may receive more land than their siblings, and daughters traditionally inherited less land than sons. The latter was sometimes explained in terms of the often large dowries of household goods and sometimes land or livestock that women traditionally took into marriage. Houses were traditionally often inherited by youngest sons, who brought their wives to live in the family home.\n\nThe maternal mortality rate in Bulgaria is 11 deaths/100,000 live births (as of 2010). The total fertility rate (TFR) in Bulgaria is 1.45 children born/woman (2015 estimates), which is below the replacement rate, and one of the lowest in the world. Abortion in Bulgaria is legal on request during the first 12 weeks of pregnancy, and at later stages for medical reasons.\n\nIn terms of military organization, women have historically been known to have been recruited to become soldiers for the Bulgarian army, particularly during critical times.\n\nWhile marriage was traditionally very important in Bulgaria, there has been a rapid increase in unmarried cohabitation after the fall of communism. The transition from communism to market economy had a great impact on the demographic behavior of the population. After the fall of communism, the legal and social pressure to get married has declined, and the population has started to experience new life styles. As of 2014, 58.8% of children were born to unmarried mothers. In the European Values Study (EVS) of 2008, the percentage of Bulgarian respondents who agreed with the assertion that \"Marriage is an outdated institution\" was 27.2%. A new Family Code came into effect in 2009, modernizing family law. Legally, Bulgaria has long recognized the equality of men and women in family law. This is explicitly stipulated in the Family Code, Art 2, which defines seven principles of family relations, one of which is \"equality between the man and the woman\". This is reinforced at Art 13, titled, \"Equality between spouses\" which states: \"The spouses shall have equal rights and obligations in the matrimony.\" Despite legal equality, societal norms of the Balkan culture often consider the wife to be in a position of subordination to the husband.\n\nBulgaria is part of the paradox of many Eastern European societies: a long tradition of involvement of women in public working life, and high professional status for women; but at the same time leniency towards domestic violence. A 1996 report stated that: \"Society recognizes women's intellectual abilities. For fifty years now, women constitute half of the labour force in the country. The situation in the family is different. The relationship model is a patriarchal one.\"\nIn the 21st century, with the entry in the EU, Bulgaria has revised its policy on family violence, particularly by enacting its first domestic violence law, the 2005 Protection against Domestic Violence Act. In 2015, Bulgaria repealed Article 158 of the Penal Code, which stated that a perpetrator of several sexual offences could escape prosecution by marrying the victim.\n\n"}
{"id": "40724182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40724182", "title": "Women in Kiribati", "text": "Women in Kiribati\n\nWomen in Kiribati are women who live in or are from the atoll nation of Kiribati. The role of Kiribati women is described in the publication \"Kiribati, A Situation Analysis of Children, Women and Youth\" (2005) as \"largely defined by her age and marital status\". Prestige is inherent to the married Kiribati woman, but she is considerably under the authority of her husband.\n\nIn general - and despite the changing trends in Kiribati society - women are often treated as \"subordinate to men\". By tradition, Kiribati women can inherit and own land. However, they \"usually still have less access to modern type of resources\". But is a growing number of female Kiribati people who participate in skilled work, professional jobs, and governmental roles. To safeguard the reputation of Kiribati women, traditional restrictions apply, particularly values that are related to chastity. The responsibility of the women of Kiribati in household includes cooking meals, cleaning, infant care and welfare of the family. As figures in a Kiribati village, their social responsibilities and obligations - according to the so-called \"unimane\" - include meeting the \"buknibwai\" or \"village shares\", composed of sharing portions of \"food, money and entertainment-related activities\" to other villagers. For the community, women are responsible for producing \"cash and traditional goods\", and also includes fund-raising activities for the church. 50% if Kiribati's workforce are composed of women.\n\nIn Kiribati politics, UN Women stated that 4.3% of parliamentary seats are held by female politicians.\n\n"}
{"id": "16084878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16084878", "title": "Women in Turkey", "text": "Women in Turkey\n\nThe role of women in contemporary Turkey is defined by an ongoing gender equality struggle, contributing elements of which include predicate conditions for EU membership candidacy, prevalent political tides that favour restrictive patriarchal models, and woman's rights activism. Women in Turkey continue to be the victims of rape and honor killings; furthermore research by scholars and government agencies indicate widespread domestic violence in Turkish population. That being said, there are many historical records of brave inspirational Turkish women fighting to make a difference. \n\nWomen in Turkey also face significant disparities in employment, and, in some regions, education. The participation of Turkish women in the labor force is less than half of that of the European Union average and while several campaigns have been successfully undertaken to promote female literacy, there is still a gender gap in secondary education and an increasing gender gap in higher education. There is also widespread occurrence of childhood marriages in Turkey, the practice being especially widespread in the eastern and central parts of the country. One should keep in mind this is not the doing of religious beliefs rather it is in part due to certain laws and restrictions. One reason that has decreased women attending University was in correlation to the Hijab ban. There were many religious women that struggled with this law, as they were told to take off their heads scarf in exchanged to attend university and the workplace. In some rural lands like \"Rize\" women play a big role in being the bread winners. However it is important to consider in some regions, cultures and values are different. A working women doesn't necessarily have to equal a free and successful women. \n\nDiscrimination based on gender is banned by the Turkish constitution. The Turkish feminist movement began in the 19th century during the decline of the Ottoman Empire. The ideal of gender equality was embraced after the declaration of the Republic of Turkey by the administration of Mustafa Kemal Atatürk, whose modernizing reforms included a ban on polygamy and the provision of full political rights to Turkish women by 1930.\n\nIn the course of the 16th and 17th centuries during the Sultanate of Women, women of the Imperial Harem had extraordinary influence on politics of Ottoman Empire. Many of the Sultans during this time were minors and it was their mothers, like Kösem Sultan, or sometimes daughters of the sultan as Mihrimah Sultan, leaders of the Harem, who effectively ruled the Empire. Most of these women were of slave origin. The period started in 1520 during the reign of Suleyman the Magnificent until 1656, the reign of Mehmed IV.\n\nDuring the decline of the Ottoman Empire in the 19th century, educated women within the elites of Istanbul began to organise themselves as feminists. With the Tanzimat reforms, improving women's conditions was considered as part of a wider modernisation effort. Ottoman women's movement began to demand rights. They fought to increase women's access to education and paid work, to abolish polygamy, and the peçe, an Islamic veil. Early feminists published woman magazines in different languages and established different organizations dedicated to the advancement of women. The first women's association in Turkey, the Ottoman Welfare Organization of Women, was founded in 1908 and became partially involved in the Young Turks Movement. Writers and politicians such as Fatma Aliye Topuz, Nezihe Muhiddin and Halide Edip Adıvar also joined the movement. In her novels, Halide Edip Adıvar criticised the low social status of Turkish women and what she saw as the lack of interest of most women in changing their situation.\n\nDuring the Turkish War of Independence, Kara Fatma a widow proved herself as a successful militia leader.\nAfter the founding of the Turkish Republic in 1923, the feminist movement gradually became part of the Kemalist modernization efforts. Polygamy was banned, divorce and inheritance rights were made equal. In the 1930s, Turkey gave full political rights to women, including the right to elect and be elected locally (in 1930) and nationwide (in 1934). There still remained, however, a large discrepancy between formal rights and the social position of women. In the 1980s, women's movements became more independent of the efforts to modify the state. After the 1980 Turkish coup d'état, women from both urban and academic milieus began to meet in reading groups and discuss feminist literature together. In these \"awareness-raising groups\", which were established notably in Istanbul, Ankara and Izmir, they criticized the standard construction of the family as well as the gender-specific role behavior that was forced on women. Independent feminist women's magazines were founded to expose the frequency of sexual harassment and violence against women. In 1987 feminists organized the first public protest against male violence, followed by campaigns against sexual harassment, \"purple needle\", and campaigns seeking the right of self-determination over the female body. These campaigns arose due to women's wish to reject the traditional patriarchal code of ethics, honor, and religion which left men to decide the fate of the female body. The second wave of the women's movement in Turkey reached a wider and more diverse group of women than the first women's movement.\n\nThe acceptance of women's issues as an independent political and planning problem was discussed for the first time in the Fifth Five Year Development Plan (1985–1990), and \"the General Directorate for the Status and Problems of Women\" was established as a national mechanism in 1990. The General Directorate, which was connected to the Prime Ministry in 1991, has been carrying out its activities under the responsibility of a State Ministry. It conducts a large variety of activities with the objective of protecting women's rights, of strengthening the position of women in social, economic, cultural and political life, and of providing the equal utilization of rights, opportunities and capacities. Since the 1990s, feminist discourse has become institutionalized, with the foundation of women's studies centers and university programs at universities such as Marmara University or as Istanbul University. In 1993, Tansu Çiller became the first female Prime Minister of Turkey.\n\nIn 2002 the Turkish government reformed Turkish criminal and civil law, and since then, the rights of women and men during marriage, divorce, and any subsequent property rights have all been equalized. A criminal law has been established that deals with the female sexuality as a matter of individual rights, rather than as a matter of family honor. Additions to the Turkish constitution oblige the state to use all the necessary means to promote the equality of the sexes. Family courts were also created, labour laws were instituted to prohibit sexism, and programs were created to educate against domestic violence and to improve access to education for girls.\n\nTurkey is a party to the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women since 1985, as well as to its Optional Protocol since 2002.\n\nArticle 10 of the Turkish Constitution bans any discrimination, state or private, on the grounds of sex. It is the first country which had a woman as the President of its Constitutional Court, Tülay Tuğcu. In addition, Turkish Council of State, the supreme court for administrative cases, also has a woman judge Sumru Çörtoğlu as its President.\n\nThe article 41 of the Turkish Constitution was revised to read that the family is \"based on equality between spouses\". The new code also granted women equal rights to property acquired during marriage, which was supposedly meant to give economic value to women’s labor within the family household.\n\nThe minimum age for marriage was also raised to 18 (17 with parental consent). In cases of forced marriage, women have right to ask an annulment within the first 5 years of marriage. In 2004, an update to article 10 of the constitution placed the responsibility for establishing gender equality on the state: \"men and women have equal rights. The state shall have the obligation to ensure that this equality exists in practice\".\n\nIn 2005, the Turkish penal code was changed to criminalize marital rape and harshen the sentences for those convicted of honor killings, which previously carried reduced sentenced because of \"provocation\". The Human Rights Directorate reported that the number of honor killings committed in Turkey rose to 220 in 2007, with most of the killings occurring in major cities.\n\nThe Islamic headscarf, worn by more than 20% of Turkish women, is allowed to women working in public offices during the practice of their functions. Girl students in primary and secondary education also are allowed to use headscarf.\n\nThe first wave of Turkish feminism occurred in the early 20th century, when women's organizations began to demand equality in civic and political rights. During this early period, the women's rights claims overlapped with the Kemalist reform process in the aftermath of the Republic.\n\nSecond wave feminism reached Turkey in the 1980s, bringing up issues common to the movement which had emerged in the West in the 1960s, such as the elimination of violence against women, the oppression experienced in the family and the challenge against virginity tests, then a common practice for women who were about to get married or who had been subjected to sexual assault.\n\nThe rise of a global civil society and the internationalization of women’s organizations and the accession of Turkey to the European Union have given women’s organizations the possibility of accessing foreign funds. The number of women’s organizations as well as the projects that these organizations conduct have increased.\n\nIn 1930s for the first time Turkish women entered politics. The first elected female mayor was (1930). In the elections held on 8 February 1935 18 women entered the parliament. One of them, Hatı Çırpan was a muhtar (village head) of a village prior to entrance to parliament. The first female city mayor was Müfide İlhan in 1950. \nAlthough representation of women in political and decision making bodies is relatively low, Tansu Çiller has been Prime Minister between 1993 and 1996. The number of women in the Turkish parliament has increased to 14.3% after the Turkish general election, 2011 (79 individuals in the parliament), most of them are affiliated with the Justice and Development Party. In 1975 the percentage was 10.9 and in 2006 it was 16.3. Only 5.58 percent of mayors are women and in the whole of Turkey there is one governor (among 81) and 14 local governors.\n\nThe murders of women in Turkey increased from 66 in 2002 to 953 in the first seven months of 2009. In the Eastern and Southeastern Anatolia regions in particular, women face domestic violence, forced marriages, and honor killings. Şefkat-Der, a Turkish non-governmental organization, has suggested granting licensed, tax-free guns to women as a way to combat domestic violence. On 8 March 2017, a mob illegally entered the Istanbul Bilgi University campus and attacked students celebrating International Women’s Day, also, students mentioned that they had been threatened on Twitter before the incident.\n\nBetween 2002 and 2009, the murder rate of women skyrocketed by 1,400 percent.\n\nOn 2010, the Turkish anti-violence group Mor Cati created a video attempted to raise awareness of violence toward women in a public way. The group placed large posters of women jumping for joy, their arms and legs splayed out beyond the frame's borders, all around Istanbul. The text next to the women reads, \"I want to live in freedom.\" The organization then set up hidden video cameras, which purport to show male passersby kicking and ripping off the cutouts' arms and legs.\n\nOn 2013 about 28,000 women were assaulted, according to official figures. Of those, more than 214 were murdered, monitors say, normally by husbands or lovers.\n\nOn November 2015, Izmir Bar Association’s Women’s Rights and Legal Support Office said that the last decade has not only seen the increase in the numbers of women subject to violence, but that the violence itself has become more intense and barbaric, \"bordering on torture.\". They also stated that the number of femicides in the last few years has ranged between 5,000 and 6,000, adding that the State either cannot or do not disclose exact records, so different platforms try to fill in this gap in terms of adequate data through media monitoring,\". The journalist Ceyda Ulukaya, made an interactive \"\"Femicide Map\" of Turkey. The project, supported by the Platform for Independent Journalism, contains detailed data about 1,134 femicide victims between 2010 and 2015, including the victims, the identity of the accused/murderer, the reason and links to newspaper stories about their murders. Both qualitative and quantitative data showed that the majority of the victims were killed by husbands/ex-husbands (608 cases) and boyfriends/ex-boyfriends (161). The most often-cited reason of the murder is that the woman wanted a divorce or refused reconciliation.\n\nOn 15 March 2017, Turkish Interior Ministry has announced that a total of 20 women were killed while under temporary state protection between 2015 and 2017. An average of 358 women a day applied to law enforcement officers after suffering violence in 2016. Around five women every hour, or 115 a day, were faced with the threat of murder. The Umut Foundation, released statistics regarding violence against women in Turkey on International Women’s Day, showing that 397 women were killed in Turkey in 2016. A total of 317 women were killed with weapons in 2016, a slight increase over the 309 women killed with weapons – out of a total of 413 – in 2015. On 6 July 2017, a pregnant Syrian woman was raped and killed with her 10-month-old baby in the Sakarya Province, Turkey.\n\nIn the monthly report of the group \"We Will Stop Femicide\", in May 2017, it mention that 328 women were killed in 2016 while in the first five months of 2017, 173 women were killed across Turkey compared with 137 in the same period of 2016. Also, 210 Turkish women killed or forced to commit suicide in 2012 in misogynist attacks by men. Women’s activists told that the rise in killings had come as more women sought to exercise their rights, including divorcing abusive partners.\n\n294 women killed in 2014 and 237 in 2013.\n\nFrom 2010 till May 2017, 118 women have been killed in İzmir alone.\n\nOn December 2016, a man attacked a pregnant woman, in Manisa for jogging at a park.\n\nAccording to reports monitoring the number of women killed at the hands of abusive men, 41 women were killed in August 2018 in Turkey.\n\nA 2002 study by Ayranci, et al. observed that in Turkey, 36.4% of women complained about physical violence and 71% mentioned physical, psychological or sexual assault during pregnancy.\n\nAccording to report by the Turkish government dating from 2009, 42% of the surveyed women said they had been physically or sexually abused by their husband or partner. Almost half of them never speaking to anyone about this, and only 8% approach government institutions for support. When they do approach them, police and gendarmerie sometimes prefer to attempt to \"reconcile\" the families rather than protecting them. While the rates of violence are particularly high among poor, rural women, one third of the women in the highest economic brackets have also been subject to domestic violence.\n\nA 2009 survey conducted by a leading Turkish university stated that some 42 percent of women over age 15 in Turkey and 47 percent of rural women have experienced physical or sexual violence at the hands of a husband or partner at some point in their lives.\n\nAccording to a United Nations report published in July 2011, 39% of women in Turkey had suffered physical violence at some time in their lives, compared with 22% in the United States. Even though every municipality with more than 50,000 inhabitants is required by law to have at least one women’s shelter, there are just 79 in the whole country.\n\nOn May 2011, the Human Rights Watch said in a report that Turkey's flawed family violence protection system leaves women and girls across the country unprotected against domestic abuse. The 58-page report, \"‘He Loves You, He Beats You': Family Violence in Turkey and Access to Protection,\" documents brutal and long-lasting violence against women and girls by husbands, partners, and family members and the survivors' struggle to seek protection.\n\nIn 2012, Turkey was the first country to ratify the Istanbul Convention.\n\nOver 37% of Turkish women said they had experienced physical or sexual violence - or both - according to an exhaustive 2014 survey of 15,000 households by the country’s family ministry.\n\nAccording to the We Will Stop Women Homicides Platform, 294 women were killed in 2014, and 60% of them perished at the hands of husbands and boyfriends.\n\nOn 3 October 2017, a woman who took refuge in a women’s shelter due to being subjected to violence from her husband was killed by him at Kastamonu.\n\nOn 9 October 2017, Habertürk reported that the number of electronic bracelets given for domestic violence incidents throughout Turkey is only 30, although some 120,000 women are subjected to violence by men every year in the Turkey.\n\nOn November, 2017, according to a study conducted by a student at Muğla Sıtkı Koçman University, mentioned that 28.5 percent of the respondents said they have witnessed domestic abuse. In the same study 52.9 percent of those who were involved in a relationship said they were subjected to \"dating abuse,\" described in the report as \"psychological harassment or physical aggression.\" The report also revealed that 6.25 percent of victims said they were touched without their consent and 4.54 said they were raped. The study also showed that abusers are overwhelmingly men.\n\nA total of 365 women were killed by men in the first 11 months of 2017, according to data compiled by the \"We Will Stop Femicide\" activist platform based on news reported in the media. The report also stressed that women who are victims of sexual abuse tend to be neglected by their families, which pushes them to undertake independent measures for their self-protection. Among many victimized women, some end up committing suicide. The report stated that in 15 November percent of the women killed were victims of murder for \"wanting to get a divorce,\" 11 percent were killed for \"taking decisions about their lives independently,\" 7 percent were killed for \"financial reasons,\" 4 percent were killed for \"turning down [the man’s] reconciliation efforts,\" and another 4 percent were killed over \"debates about their children.\" Most of the women killed in Turkey in November were aged between 25 and 35, with 75 percent of the women in this age range becoming victims after wanting to get divorce.\n\nIn 2017, a total of 409 women were killed and 387 children sexually abused in Turkey, according to data compiled by the group \"We Will Stop Femicide\".\n\nA report about October 2017 reveals that during that month 40 women have lost their lives due to femicide, while 25 women have been subject to sexual violence and 32 children have been sexually abused. Also, 20% of women who have been murdered, range between 19 and 24. In addition the report mention that 70% of victims have been murdered by their close relatives (partner, father, son, brother, etc.), and that 40% of victims have been shot dead, whereas 28% have been stabbed to death.\n\nAccording to a report released by the group \"We Will Stop Femicide\", 28 women were killed and 25 others were subjected to sexual violence in January 2018, added that also 147 children had been sexually abused during January. Twenty one percent of the women killed were murdered for making decisions regarding their own lives, while four percent of women were murdered for refusing to reunite with their former partners. 43 percent were between 36 and 65 years old, 14 percent were older than 66, and 11 percent were between 25 and 35 years old. The majority of the women were killed at home. The platform said the total number of femicides fell slightly compared to the final months of 2017.\n\nThe online database called the Monument Counter said that at least 337 women were killed by domestic violence in 2018.\n\nOn September 2016, Ayşegül Terzi, was called a \"devil\" and kicked by a man in face on a public bus, for wearing shorts. Footage showed the man telling her that those who wear shorts \"should die.\" In protest at the attack, the hashtag #AyşegülTerzininSesiOlalim, which translates into English as \"let’s be the voice of Aysegul Terzi\", was used thousands of times. Women in Turkey also posted images to social media of themselves wearing shorts in solidarity. On 18 September 2016, campaigners gathered in Istanbul to protest the attack and put pressure on authorities to focus on ending violence against women.\n\nOn June 2017, a female university student, Asena Melisa Sağlam, was attacked verbally and physically by a man on a bus in Istanbul for wearing shorts during the Muslim holy month of Ramadan. The incident was caught on security cameras. Also, later on the same month a woman was harassed on the street in Istanbul when a man accused her of wearing provocative clothing, saying she should be careful because she was \"turning people on.\"\n\nOn July 2017, hundreds of women marched in Istanbul on to protest against violence and animosity they face from men demanding they dress more conservatively. Protesters say there has been an increase in the number of verbal and physical attacks against women for their choice of clothing in Turkey in recent years. Also, later on the same month the security chief of the Maçka Democracy Park in the Şişli district of Istanbul verbally abused a young woman for the way she was dressed and he also called the police. On 30 July 2017, Women’s rights associations protested in the Park against such actions.\n\nOn 10 August 2017, two men on motorbikes sexually harassed two women, at İzmir. Then the women asked for help from two police officers in the street, but one of them started beating one of the women, according to the woman's testimony the \"officer said the harassers were right because we were ‘dressed inappropriately,’\". Security footage showed one of the police officers starting to beat one of the women.\n\nIn September 2017, at Ankara, neighbors complained to the manager of a apartment building about a woman for wearing shorts at her home, demanding that she must keep her curtains closed. The manager warned the woman to keep her curtains closed for her own sake.\n\nIn March 2018, a teacher at a religious vocational high school in Konya was dismissed from his post over comments he made about female students wearing gym clothes. He also wrote that physical education classes should be an optional class for students, as it “prepared girls for the devil.”\n\nAccording to a study, some commonly-expressed views on rape were given to individuals from various professions, who were asked to agree or disagree; results recorded that 33% of the police officers agreed that \"some women deserve rape\", 66% of police officers, as well as nearly 50% of other professional groups except the psychologists about 18% and 27% of psychiatrists, suggested that \"the physical appearance and behaviors of women tempt men to rape.\"\n\nIn 2015, Turkish university student Özgecan Aslan was murdered as she resisted a rape attempt on a minibus in Mersin. Her burnt body was discovered on 13 February. The murder was committed by Turkish minibus driver Ahmet Suphi Altındöken, his father Necmettin Altındöken and his friend Fatih Gökçe. According to Turkish Daily Sabah, Özgcan Aslan became a symbol for Turkish women who are the victims of violence.\n\nIn 2013, \"The Guardian\" reported that 'the rape and torture of Kurdish prisoners in Turkey are disturbingly commonplace'. According to a report from Amnesty International in 2003, Hamdiye Aslan, who was accused of supporting the Kurdish separatist group, the PKK, had been detained in Mardin Prison, south-east Turkey, for almost three months in which she was reportedly blindfolded, anally raped with a truncheon, threatened and mocked by officers.\n\nReporting on cases of sexual abuse in Turkey is often difficult; the issue is still taboo in Turkish culture, as well as the fact that much of Turkish media don't report on such cases as they tarnish the country's modern and secular image. The result of this is that many injustices within Turkey, including systematic rapes carried out in prisons to maintain power over communities, go unheard by the rest of the world.\n\nA July 2008 Turkish study by a team from Dicle University on honor killings in the Southeastern Anatolia Region, the predominantly Kurdish area of Turkey, has so far shown that little if any social stigma is attached to honor killing. The team interviewed 180 perpetrators of honor killings and it also commented that the practice is not related to a feudal societal structure, \"there are also perpetrators who are well-educated university graduates. Of all those surveyed perpetrators, 60 percent are either high school or university graduates or at the very least, literate\". In 2010 a 16-year-old girl was buried alive by relatives for befriending boys in Southeast Turkey; her corpse was found 40 days after she went missing. There are well documented cases, where Turkish courts have sentenced whole families to life imprisonment for an honor killing. Such a case was on 13 January 2009, where a Turkish Court sentenced five members of the same family to life imprisonment for the honor killing of Naile Erdas, a 16-year old Kurdish girl who got pregnant as a result of rape.\n\nA June 2008 report by the Turkish Prime Ministry's Human Rights Directorate said that in Istanbul alone there was one honor killing every week, and reported over 1,000 during the previous five years. It added that metropolitan cities were the location of many of these, whilst the perpetrators of these crimes in such cities mostly originated from Eastern Turkey. The mass migration during the past decades of rural population from Southeastern Turkey to big cities in Western Turkey has resulted in cities such as Istanbul, Ankara, Izmir, and Bursa having the highest numbers of reported honor killings. Most honour-related crimes happen in the rural Kurdish region, where a feudal, patriarchal system survives, but as Kurds have fled these regions, the crime is also spreading into cities across Turkey. Honor killings continue have some support in the conservative parts of Turkey, especially in southeastern Turkey, where most of the crimes take place. A survey where 500 men were interviewed in Diyarbakir found that, when asked the appropriate punishment for a woman who has committed adultery, 37% of respondents said she should be killed, while 21% said her nose or ears should be cut off.\n\nIn 2008, critics have pointed out that Turkey has become a major market for foreign women who are coaxed and forcibly brought to the country by international mafia to work as sex slaves, especially in big and touristic cities.\n\nIn 15 February 2015, a social media campaign started in order to let women share their own sexual harassment stories under the hashtag #sendeanlat (you tell your story too), after a 20-year-old woman was brutally killed in Turkey. As of 25 February 2015, there were more than 800,000 tweets.\n\nIn 2015, the Turkish model, Didem Soydan, tweeted that she had received abusive text messages, after testifying and giving her cell phone number to police in the case of a woman who was forced into a car after being beaten. In addition, the actress Beren Saat, tweeted her own experiences about the sexual harassment and abuses.\n\nIn June 2018, the Turkish actress Hande Ataizi and a Turkish costume assistant accused the actor Talat Bulut of sexual harassment. A total of 56 producers and directors in Turkey supported the victims with a written statement. In the statement it mention that: \"We know it is hard for a woman to expose harassment and abuse incidents in Turkey\". The male actor had rejected the allegations and threatened to launch a countersuit.\n\nAs of September 2018, there are a total of 132 Women's shelters in Turkey. Only the province of Bitlis does not have a shelter for women. Most of those facilities are run by the Family, Labor and Social Services Ministry while others are operated by municipalities, the Immigration Authority (Göç İdaresi) and the Purple Roof (Mor Çatı), an NGO. According to data from 2016, 102 shelters under the Family Ministry accommodated 29,612 women and 17,956 children. Thirty-three facilities operated by municipalities sheltered 2,088 women and 1,433 children. And 66 women and 23 children were hosted at the shelter run by the NGO.\n\nAslı Elif Sakallı, from the Purple Roof Women’s Shelter Foundation, said that only one or two social workers are employed at shelters that host 25 to 30 women. She also added that some employees at the shelters who are not conscious about gender equality could make statements such as: “But clearly you deserved this.”\n\nIn 2017, the mufti of the Kocaeli’s Gölcük district had likened women without headscarves to products sold at half price. In 2018, the mufti of the Zonguldak said that \"women should enter the sea in a way that other women cannot see them. Even women should hide their bodies from other women,”\n\nWhile still trailing male literacy rates, female literacy rates in Turkey have grown substantially to 91.8% in 2015. Illiteracy is particularly prevalent among rural women, who are often not sent to school as girls. Half of girls aged between 15 and 19 are neither in the education system nor in the workforce. The government and various other foundations are engaged in education campaigns in Southeastern Anatolia to improve the rate of literacy and education levels of women. In 2008, 4 million women were illiterate, as opposed to 990 thousand men. A 2008 poll by the Women Entrepreneurs Association of Turkey showed that almost half of urban Turkish women believe economic independence for women is unnecessary reflecting, in the view of psychologist Leyla Navaro, a heritage of patriarchy.\n\nIn the 2012-2013, the schooling ratio of girls (at 99.61% as of 2014 according to the Turkish Statistical Institute) exceeded that of the boys for the first time in Turkish history. The gender gap in secondary education (5.3% lower than boys) remained, albeit at much lower levels in comparison to the 2002-2003 educational year (25.8%). However, the gender gap in higher education increased between 2002 and 2012 to 9.5%. Significant regional differences still persist, with only 15.9% of girls attending secondary school in the Muş Province as of 2010, as opposed to 82.4% in the Bilecik Province, the province with the highest percentage. In 2009, the provinces with the lowest schooling ratios for girls were Bitlis, Van and Hakkari, all in southeastern Turkey, while those with the highest ratios were Ankara, İzmir and Mersin, all in western Turkey. Dropout rates for girls at primary level are higher than boys, especially concentrating at the fifth and sixth years.\n\nDaily Habertürk reported on 9 January 2018, that only three state universities in Turkey have women rectors, despite women making up 43.58 percent of all academics in the country. According to education specialist Alaaddin Dinçer, the absence of women among universities’ boards of directors is the result of a \"consciously made decision.\"\n\nThe employment rate (for ages 15–64), as of 2015, was 30.5% for women, much lower than that of men which was 69.8%.\nIn 2011, out of 26 million employable women, only 5.9 million were in the labor force. 23.4% of women have either been forced by men to quit their jobs or prevented from working. The rate of women not covered by social security is 84% in the East and 87% in the Southeast.\n\nWomen’s employment has decreased since 2000 and the participation of women in the workforce lags behind some Islamic countries as well as western countries. One of the reasons for this is the increased migration of rural women, who would otherwise have been employed in the agriculture sector. Compared to other Islamic countries, including Saudi Arabia and Iran, Turkey is the only one with a diminishing rate of women’s employment.\n\nAccording to World Bank, women made up 30.5% of the labor force in 2014 (roughly unchanged from 1990 when they made up 30.8%).\n\nOn the other hand, it is possible that the involvement of women in the labour force is very underestimated, due to women working in the informal economy.\n\nDespite the relatively low involvement of women in the workforce compared to other countries, women in Turkey are quite well represented in the business world; for instance the proportion of women in business leadership roles in Turkey is almost twice higher than that of Germany.\n\nOn 19 October 2017, Turkish Enterprise and Business Confederation (TÜRKONFED) Chairman said that half of the women in Turkey’s labor force are unregistered and that the ratio of unregistered women workers in the country is much higher than that of men. He also, said that Turkey must raise women’s participation in the workforce to ensure sustainable development, adding that Turkey is the only country in Europe with an employment rate among women lower than 40 percent.\n\nAs of 2018, just 34% of women in Turkey work, by far the lowest of the 35 industrialised countries of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) where the average is 63%.\n\nIn June 19, 2018, the European Court of Human Rights has fined Turkey 11,000 euros over the government-owned electricity distribution company’s refusal to appoint a woman as a security officer on account of her gender. In October 1999 the female applicant, Hülya Ebru Demirel, passed a civil service exam and was informed that she would be appointed as a security officer at the Kilis branch of the Turkish Electricity Distribution company (TEDAŞ). However, the company refused to appoint her, citing her failure to fulfil the condition for the position to be “a man who has completed military service.” The applicant initially won a discrimination court case against the company in 2001 but that decision was overturned on appeal by the Supreme Administrative Court in December 2002. Demirel’s subsequent appeals were all reported to be unsuccessful, which ultimately led her to lodge an appeal at the ECHR on June 17, 2008.\n\nIn March 2018, Parliament Speaker İsmail Kahraman forbid the women of a troupe from being onstage, at a tribute to the anniversary of the Gallipoli Campaign at the Turkish Parliament. He was offended that actresses playing the mothers of soldiers would be giving guys public hugs.\n\nOn average, 28% of Turkish women were married before the age of 18. Because of the large regional differences in the incidence of underage marriages, as many as 40~50% are married as minors in some areas, particularly in eastern and Central Anatolia. A report by the Commission on Equality of Opportunity for Women and Men states that childhood marriages are \"widely accepted\" by Turkish society. A bride price is still paid in parts of Turkey.\n\nIn 2016, the governing Islamist conservative Justice and Development Party (AKP) sought to introduce legislation which would have made a child rape no longer punishable if the perpetrator would offer to marry his victim; this was withdrawn after a public outcry against what was widely seen as an attempt of \"legitimising rape and encouraging child marriage\".\n\nIn February 2018, daily Habertürk reported that the number of Turkish women illegally seeking surrogate mothers abroad, especially in countries where the practice is common and legal, such as in Greek Cyprus, Georgia and the United States, or women offering to become surrogates for money has been on the rise. This practice is forbidden by Turkish law.\n\nGeneral Directorate of Population and Citizenship Affairs, mentioned that 2,730 girls younger than 15 years old and 50,848 girls aged between 15 and 17 gave birth in 2001.\n\nTurkish Statistical Institute (TÜIK) mentioned that 16,396 girls aged between 15 and 17 gave birth across Turkey in 2016, as well as 234 girls younger than 15.\n\nIn 2017, officials in Turkey recorded the number of underage pregnancies at 15,216. Istanbul and the province of Gaziantep topped the list with 1,106.\n\nIn January 2018, media reports revealed that a single Istanbul hospital had covered up over 100 underage pregnancies in just six months.\n\nIn the first half of 2018, there were 625 underage conceptions in Istanbul and 499 in Gaziantep.\n\nDuring the 2017 and the first half of the 2018, there were 1,348 underage pregnancies in the province of Adana, 1,005 in the province of Diyarbakır and 1,313 in the province of Hatay. During this period, in only four provinces of Turkey the number of underage pregnancies fell below 10.\n\nA 2006 survey by the Turkish Economic and Social Studies Foundation estimated the prevalence of hair covering among Turkish women at 30%. There are regional variations: in 2005, 30% of women in Istanbul covered their hair, while in central and eastern Turkey, women are rarely seen on the streets, and wear headscarves in public.\n\nThe 2006 survey found that, compared to a previous study carried out in 1999, the number of women who employ headcoverings had increased in rural areas, but decreased in cities. It also found that the Çarşaf, Turkish version of Arabic niqab, was almost never worn by women in the 18–39 age group.\n\nFrom 1999 to 2006, women not wearing head coverings in the 25–39 age group rose from 28% to 41.5%, and in the 18–24 group increased from 40.5% to 50.7%. The prevalence also differs by income: in 2006, 37.2% of women in the medium income group were uncovered, compared to 71.2% in the higher income group.\n\nThe same survey asked single men whether they would want prospective wives to go covered: 56% responded no, 44% yes. Only 1.1% of covered women said they cover because of their spouses, fiancees or family.\n\nSince 1985, Turkish women have the right to freely exercise abortions in the first 10 weeks of pregnancy and the right to contraceptive medicine paid for by the Social Security. Modifications to the Civil Code in 1926 gave the right to women to initiate and obtain a divorce; only recognized in Malta (a EU country) for both men and women in 2011. Turkish prime minister Erdoğan argued that women should have at least three children.\n\nNo gender discrimination exists regarding the laws as well as their practice in the health sector in Turkey. On the other hand, prolific pregnancy and birth have a negative health impact on both the mother and the child. With the 1994 World Population and Development Conference, the Ministry of Health adopted a policy change which included the emotional, social and physical health of women and young girls with an integrated approach, rather than only reproductive health and family planning as it did in the past. Another initiative brought onto the agenda by the Ministry of Health after the Beijing Conference, is to ensure the participation of men in reproductive health and family planning.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n (Data as of January 1995.)\n\n"}
{"id": "23149465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23149465", "title": "Zadran (Pashtun tribe)", "text": "Zadran (Pashtun tribe)\n\nThe Zadran ( \"dzadrāṇ\"; pronounced \"dzādroṇ\" in Khost-Paktia dialect), also spelled Dzadran or Jadran, is a Pashtun tribe that inhabits the Loya Paktia region in southeastern Afghanistan (Khost, Paktia, and Paktika provinces) and parts of Waziristan in neighboring Pakistan. \"Zadran: Pashtun tribe mainly residing in the “Zadran Arc” a 9-district area encompassing portions of the Khost, Paktya, and Paktika provinces.\" \n\nThe Zadran are a branch of the Karlani tribal confederacy.\n\n"}
