{"id": "49347110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49347110", "title": "2005 Hong Kong electoral reform", "text": "2005 Hong Kong electoral reform\n\nThe 2005 Hong Kong electoral reform was carried out in late 2005 for the selection of the Chief Executive of Hong Kong (CE) in 2007 and Legislative Council of Hong Kong (LegCo) in 2008. The reform proposals were ultimately voted down by the pro-democracy camp.\n\nThe Hong Kong Special Administrative Region established in 1997 was governed by the Hong Kong Basic Law, the \"mini-constitution\" of the region. The Basic Law set out the selecting method of the Chief Executive of Hong Kong (CE) for the first two terms and the Legislative Council of Hong Kong (LegCo) for the first three terms. The selection method of the CE and LegCo was left blank for the 2007 Chief Executive and 2008 Legislative Council elections. Hong Kong Basic Law Article 45 promised that \"the ultimate aim is the selection of the Chief Executive by universal suffrage\" while Article 68 stipulated that \"the ultimate aim is the election of all members of the Legislative Council by universal suffrage\".\n\nThe politics of the constitutional reforms have dominated Hong Kong agenda since the handover, as the pro-democrats demanded all along an early implementation of universal suffrage for the CE and LegCo elections.\n\nOn 26 April 2004, the National People's Congress Standing Committee (NPCSC) reached a verdict stating that the elections of the 2007 CE and 2008 LegCo would not be returned by universal suffrage, thereby defeating the democrats' appeal for 2007/08 universal suffrage.\n\nIn March 2005, the unpopular Tung Chee-hwa resigned as Chief Executive, citing health reasons. Chief Secretary for Administration Donald Tsang succeeded in an uncontested election with the controversy over NPCSC's constitutional interpretation.\n\nOn 28 October, the Donald Tsang administration announced a blueprint for reforming the 2007/08 methods. The Fifth Report of the Task Force on Constitutional Development proposed limited reforms to the electoral methods for the 2007 and 2008 CE elections as constrained by the April 2004 NPCSC verdict.\n\nThe report proposed to expand the 800-member Election Committee to 1,600, in the process of which including all 529 District Councillors, including the appointed members by the government, in order to widen the base of the indirect electorate. The government also proposed to add 10 seats to the 2008 LegCo, with five directly-elected through geographical constituencies and five functional constituencies elected by District Councillors. The government claimed that this was the best deal they could muster given the constraints of the NPCSC verdict.\n\nAccording to Annex I and II of the Basic Law, an amendment of the electoral methods of CE and LegCo requires the consent of two-thirds majority of the LegCo, which means the 25 pro-democrats in the LegCo could veto the proposal if they vote \"en bloc\" against it.\n\nInitially, the mainstream democrats, represented by the Democratic Party and the Article 45 Concern Group which combined for 12 votes in the legislature indicated their willingness to approve the proposal on the condition that the 159 appointed members of the District Councils would be excluded in the expanded Election Committee. Many in the pro-democracy were ready to approve the proposal if the amendment be made, which included the Article 45 Concern Group. Although hardliners in the camp refused to make any concession\n\nIn the following weeks, the political winds shifted abruptly to a radical direction. The radical wing stepped up the call for full democracy by launching a signature campaign in newspapers. A dozen political parties and civil groups began for another mass rally just before the voting on the proposal. On 4 November, several democratic leaders met with religious leaders Bishop Joseph Zen and Reverend Chu Yiu-ming who persuaded them to vote \"en bloc\" against the government proposal. A week later, a political advertisement appeared on front pages of several newspapers showing a sandglass in black background with one written phrase: \"Tell me, would I live to see universal suffrage?\", addressed by \"a 78-year-old man.\"\n\nAs a result, the pro-democrats raised their stakes by demanding a clear road and timetable to full democracy. The claimed to veto the proposal unless the appointment system in the District Councils was abolished and a clear road map and timetable were offered. The representatives from the NPCSC and Hong Kong and Macao Affairs Office (HKMAO) invited social notables and legislators from the Article 45 Concern Group to a meeting but was turned down by the group. The Chief Executive also repeatedly appealed to the public for support on television and radio programmes.\n\nThe democrats launched a rally on 4 December demanding universal suffrage drew estimated 100,000 people. The high turnout strengthened the cause of the democrats to veto the proposal. On 21 December 2005, the proposal was turned down with 24 democrats voted \"en bloc\" against it, although there were continuing rumours that some might switch their position and supported it, except for Lau Chin-shek who abstained.\n\nA survey in late October 2005 showed that 58.8% of respondents accepted the government proposals while 23.6% disapproved, although 66% of the respondents supported a timetable for full democracy in the reform proposal . After the 3 December rally, a survey showed 49.9% accepted the proposal.\n\n"}
{"id": "53336674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53336674", "title": "2006 and 2007 Tunisia clashes", "text": "2006 and 2007 Tunisia clashes\n\nOn 23 December 2006 and 3 January 2007, Tunisian security forces engaged in clashes with members of a group with connections to the Islamist terror group Salafist Group for Preaching and Combat (GSPC) in the towns of Soliman and Hammam-Lif south of the capital Tunis, killing more than a dozen people.\n\nOn 23 December, two Islamists were killed and two arrested in a shootout with police in the town of Hammam-Lif south of Tunis.\n\nOn 3 January, at least two members of Tunisian security forces and twelve Islamists were killed, and fifteen arrested in a clash in a forested area near Soliman. \n\nAmong those killed was the leader of the group, Lassaad Sassi, a former Tunisian policeman who had spent time in Afghanistan and headed a terror network based in Milan, Italy. Sassi's group had reportedly established training camps in the mountains in Djebel Ressas and Boukornine south of the Tunisian capital. \n\nAccording to French daily \"Le Parisien\" at least 60 people were killed in the clashes. It was later revealed that the Islamists had been in possession of blueprints of foreign embassies as possible targets. The attacks were the most serious by Islamists in Tunisia since the Ghriba synagogue bombing in 2002.\n"}
{"id": "47529612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47529612", "title": "2015 Tianjin explosions", "text": "2015 Tianjin explosions\n\nOn 12 August 2015, a series of explosions killed 173 people and injured hundreds of others at a container storage station at the Port of Tianjin. The first two explosions occurred within 30 seconds of each other at the facility, which is located in the Binhai New Area of Tianjin, China. The second explosion was far larger and involved the detonation of about 800 tonnes of ammonium nitrate. Fires caused by the initial explosions continued to burn uncontrolled throughout the weekend, resulting in eight additional explosions on August 15.\n\nThe cause of the explosions was not immediately known, but an investigation concluded in February 2016 that an overheated container of dry nitrocellulose was the cause of the initial explosion.\n\nCensored news coverage of the event and the emergency response to it received criticism. The Chinese government also censored the internet and social media using the words \"Tianjin\" and \"explosion\", and announced it had taken down multiple websites for publishing \"false\" information.\n\nThe final casualty report was 165 deaths, 8 missing, and 798 non-fatal injuries.\n\nTianjin Dongjiang Port Ruihai International Logistics (), or Ruihai Logistics (), is a privately held logistics company established in 2011. It handles hazardous chemicals within the Port of Tianjin, such as flammable & corrosive substances, oxidizing agents, and toxic chemicals. The company, which employed 70, is designated by the Tianjin Maritime Safety Administration () as an approved agent for handling these hazardous chemicals at the port, and its operating license was renewed two months prior to the explosions. Its site contains multiple warehouses for hazardous goods, a fire pump and a fire pond.\n\nThe warehouse building, owned by Ruihai Logistics, is recorded in a 2014 government document as being a hazardous chemical storage facility for calcium carbide, sodium nitrate, and potassium nitrate. Safety regulations requiring that public buildings and facilities should be at least 1 kilometre away were not followed, and local inhabitants were unaware of the danger. The authorities stated that poor record keeping, damage to the office facilities and \"major discrepancies\" with customs meant that they were unable to identify the substances stored. State media revealed that Ruihai had only received its authorisation to handle dangerous chemicals less than two months earlier, meaning that it had been operating illegally from October 2014, when its temporary license had expired, to June 2015.\n\nThe first reports of a fire at a warehouse in the Binhai New Area began coming in at around 22:50 local time (14:50 UTC) on 12 August. The first responders were unable to keep the fire from spreading. Firefighters who first arrived on the scene proceeded to douse the fire with water as they were unaware that dangerous chemicals were stored on the site, thereby setting in motion a series of more violent chemical reactions.\n\nAt around 23:30 (15:30 UTC), the 1st explosion occurred and registered as a magnitude 2.3 earthquake, generating seismic shock-waves energetically equivalent to 2.9 tonnes of TNT. After 30 seconds, a 2nd more powerful explosion occurred, causing most of the damage and injuries with shock-waves felt many kilometres away. The second explosion registered as a magnitude 2.9 earthquake and generated seismic shock-waves with energy equivalent to 21.9 tonnes of TNT. The resulting fireballs reached hundreds of meters in height. Around 23:40 (15:40 UTC) on 15 August, a series of eight smaller explosions occurred in the port as fire from the original blasts continued to spread. The total energy release was equivalent to 28 tonnes of TNT, or 100GJ.\n\nThe explosion was large enough to be photographed by Himawari, a geostationary meteorological satellite operated by the Japan Meteorological Agency (JMA). Chinese scientists subsequently estimated that the second more powerful explosion involved the detonation of about 800 tonnes of ammonium nitrate, based on crater size and lethality radius.\n\nOne month after the explosion, official reports listed 173 deaths and 797 injuries. Media reported the area to be densely populated, with around 5,600 families living within 1.5 km radius of the plant, the closest being only 600 m away. Neither the developers nor the buyers were aware of the latent dangers of the activities at the nearby site; developers claimed also to be victims. According to the Tianjin government, more than 700 people were injured by the explosion, many with extensive injuries, mostly from burns and explosive blast injuries. Over a thousand firefighters were on scene, and 95 were killed. One surviving firefighter, a 19-year-old named Zhou Ti (), was found on the morning of 14 August. The death toll of the incident, which also included 11 police officers, was the worst for Chinese front line responders since the founding of the People's Republic of China in 1949.\n\nPhotographs and videos showed extensive destruction in and around the warehouse compound, with an enormous crater at the blast site. The buildings of seven more surrounding logistics companies were destroyed, and large quantities of intermodal container stacks were toppled and thrown by the forces of the explosions. More than eight thousand new cars from Hyundai, Kia, Volkswagen, Renault, and Toyota, parked in lots located near the blast site, were largely burned as a result of the initial explosions. Multiple buildings surrounding the blast site were declared \"structurally unsafe\". In total, 304 buildings, 12,428 cars, and 7,533 intermodal containers were damaged. Beyond insurance, the cost to businesses of the break in the supply chain caused by the explosions was estimated at $9 billion, making it the third most expensive supply chain disruption of 2015.\n\nApartment blocks from the site sustained shattered glass, loss of roof tiles and damage to ceilings – with 17,000 units being affected. Nearby Donghai Road Station suffered severe damage as a result of the explosions and was closed indefinitely, as was the rest of Line 9 of the Tianjin Metro beginning on 13 August. A Japanese department store four kilometres away reported damage to walls and ceilings. The explosions also affected the National Supercomputing Center of Tianjin several kilometres away, knocking out windows and causing some internal ceilings to collapse; the center's supercomputer Tianhe-1A itself was not damaged.\n\nIt is not known what chemicals were being stored at the site. In addition to vast quantities of sodium cyanide and calcium carbide, paperwork was discovered showing that 800 tonnes of ammonium nitrate and 500 tonnes of potassium nitrate were at the blast site. On 17 August, the deputy director of the public security bureau's fire department told CCTV: \n\nAmmonium nitrate, which is principally used in manufacturing fertilizer, has been implicated in a number of other fatal industrial explosions. A fire department spokesman confirmed that firefighters had used water in combating the initial fire, which may have led to water being sprayed on calcium carbide, releasing the highly flammable gas acetylene. This would have provided the fuel source for reaction with the oxidiser, ammonium nitrate and consequently detonate.\n\nAt least 700 tonnes of highly toxic sodium cyanide was stored at the site – 70 times the legal limit. Sodium cyanide leakage was reported in the sewer. On 13 August, sulphur dioxide, carbon monoxide and nitrogen oxides, all of which are toxic, were detected within of the origin of the explosion, but the levels conformed with the national standards. The government maintained that gases were undetectable from the site during initial testing on 14 August.\n\nWith the first rains after the initial explosions, coming on 18 August, white chemical foam covered the streets. Citizens complained of burning sensations and rashes on sensitive skin parts after coming into contact with rain droplets. However, meteorologists sought to reassure the public that the rain was not directly harmful to health, whilst the Environment Protection Board advised against exposure to the rain due to traces of cyanide dust reacting with water.\n\nThousands of dead sticklebacks washed up on the banks 6 km from the explosion site on 20 August, fuelling fears of water contamination. Officials downplayed the fears, saying that there were not high levels of cyanide in the river and that the fish likely died due to oxygen depletion in the water.\n\nRain on 25 August 2015 in the Binhai New Area brought more complaints of skin burns from volunteers and journalists. A bright white foam also appeared on the streets. Deng Xiaowen, director of Tianjin's environmental monitoring centre, questionably stated that the foam was \"a normal phenomenon when rain falls, and similar things have occurred before\".\n\nOn Thursday morning, the Chinese leaders ordered officers in the city to “make full effort in rescuing the injured, and search for those missing,” according to The Paper. Xi Jinping, the president of China, also said police should investigate the cause of the incident and punish those responsible for the blast.\n\nTianjin officials, initially concerned at public response, announced that 14 people had perished in the explosions, but were forced to raise the death toll to 44 once the scale of the explosions became clear. The \"South China Morning Post\" (SCMP) cited a Tianjin police source that officers had been instructed to remove bodies from the scene to deliberately understate the official death toll.\n\nThe morning following the explosion military personnel began to arrive in Tianjin to help with the search and recovery efforts. Extra equipment, such as bulldozers, were brought in to help with the clean-up operation. Over 200 nuclear and biochemical experts, including a team from the International Atomic Energy Agency, began arriving in Tianjin to assess the health risks from the chemicals being released into the atmosphere. Government personnel set up twelve temporary monitoring stations near the blast site with above-normal levels of pollutants being detected. A nearby drainage outlet was also closed, and water quality tested.\n\nFirefighting was suspended on the afternoon of 13 August due to the uncertainty of the content and quantity of hazardous materials being stored on site. A team of over 200 chemical specialists was deployed to the site to assess the hazardous materials on site and dangers to the environment, and to determine the best way to put out the remaining fires and proceed with search and rescue and clean-up operations. Later that day, rescue personnel were dispatched in an attempt to remove the 700 tonnes of sodium cyanide believed to be stored at the site, with hydrogen peroxide being prepared to neutralise the chemicals. Daily press conferences were organised. A press conference organised by local officials held on 14 August came to an abrupt end when a journalist began asking questions as to why such dangerous chemicals were stockpiled so near to housing estates.\n\nInitially, more than 3,500 area residents were staying in temporary shelters, but the number surpassed six thousand within three days. The government issued an evacuation order over concerns of further explosions; not all residents complied.\n\nSeveral hours after the initial blast, at 3:30 am on 13 August, Tianjin mayor and acting Communist Party Secretary Huang Xingguo arrived at TEDA Hospital to visit injured victims. Shortly thereafter, Guo Shengkun, the Minister of Public Security, visited the blast site in Tianjin and called for all-out efforts to save lives. The next few days saw more senior officials visit the explosion site, including Vice-Premier Liu Yandong, Vice-Premier Ma Kai, and Premier Li Keqiang accompanied by State Councilor Yang Jing.\n\nOn 15 August, local authorities ordered the evacuation of residents within a radius of the blast site, prompted by the threat of \"toxic substances\", including sodium cyanide.\n\nThe State Council ordered inspections of all businesses using dangerous chemicals and explosives across the country.\n\nHong Kong media announced that Li Liang, the major shareholder – owning 55%, was the nephew of former chairman of the CPPCC National Committee Li Ruihuan, who had been de facto leader of the Tianjin clique, and that the company may have been named after his brother and Li Liang's father; the remaining 45% was owned by Shu Zheng. Reports in state media one week after the explosion were contradictory, holding that Ruihai was owned via proxies by Yu Xuewei, a former senior executive at Sinochem, and Dong Shexuan, who served as the company's vice-president and had been arrested by police by the time of the reports. Dong Shexuan is the son of Tianjin port's former police chief Dong Peijun, who was a colleague of Wu Changshun, the former chief of the public security bureau of Tianjin. The Central Commission for Discipline Inspection (CCDI), CPC's anti-corruption body, charged Wu Changshun with bribery in 2014; Dong Peijun was also under investigation for corruption, but died that year.\n\nHowever,according to another resource that is familiar with this company,the involved people who have been disclosed including the representatives Zhifeng are only \"small ants\",the company has a deeper background behind.In fact, There are many actual controllers in the company. Dong Shexuan is only one of them who actually occupies a small share.\n\nAfter the explosions, the CCDI placed Yang Dongliang, Director of the State Administration of Work Safety and China's highest work-safety official, under investigation on 18 August 2015. Yang had previously served as Tianjin's vice mayor for 11 years. In 2012, Yang Dongliang had issued an order to loosen rules for the handling of hazardous substances, which may have enabled Ruihai to store toxic chemicals such as sodium cyanide.\n\nOn 27 August, Xinhua reported that police had arrested twelve people with suspected connections to the explosions, including Ruihai Logistics' chairman, vice-chairman, and at least three other managers, with the other seven people unnamed.\n\nOn 5 February 2016, the Chinese government issued the investigation report of the explosions. The report concluded the fire started in a container through auto-ignition of nitrocellulose, due to vaporization of the wetting agent during hot weather.\n\nOn 8 November 2016, Various courts in China handed jail sentences to 49 government officials and warehouse executives and staffs for their roles circumventing the safety rules that led to the disaster. The Chairman of Ruihai Logistics was sentenced to death with a two-year reprieve.\n\nTianjin authorities banned editors and reporters from sharing information about the disaster on Weibo and WeChat, and websites were ordered to follow state media.\n\nThe Tianjin internet police warned social media users to use only official casualty figures.\n\nTianjin Television had reported the explosion on their early morning news at 7:00 am, but citizens complained that the station had not reported live nor updated on the event, instead showing soap operas eight hours later.\n\nA great deal of specific information on the event, including the majority of early stage video was first released over social media sites, and in particular microblogging platforms like Weibo. Major media has drawn heavily from social media sources, greatly widening the audience. \"The Economist\" noted, \"Social media fills in the blanks left by official narratives of the Tianjin disaster. The most remarkable feature of the aftermath of the explosions in Tianjin, in northern China, has been the extraordinary contrast between the official reaction to the crisis, which has been profoundly flawed, and the online reaction, which has entirely dominated the agenda.\"\n\nProfessional and social media reports were censored by Chinese authorities. The censorship rate increased tenfold on the social media site Weibo, with users reporting the deletion of their posts regarding the blasts, with \"Tianjin\" and \"explosion\" being the most censored words. An article by \"Caijing\", which carried an interview with a firefighter who said that no-one on the front line had been informed of the dangerous chemicals on site that would react exothermically when mixed with water, was deleted after it had been reposted 10,000 times; many other posts mentioning the existence of deadly sodium cyanide were also expunged.\n\nThe Cyberspace Administration of China banned all journalists from posting to social media, and insisted on strict adherence to Xinhua copy. On 15 August, it announced that it had shut down 18 websites and suspended 32 more for spreading false information. More than 360 Weibo and public WeChat accounts which had allegedly been spreading such false rumors have been \"punished according to laws\". Of these accounts, over 160 were shut down permanently.\n\nPress freedom organization Reporters Without Borders (RSF) accused the Chinese state media of playing up the heroic efforts of rescue workers and firefighters while downplaying the causes of the explosions and the number of casualties. RSF said that censorship by the Chinese authorities showed \"a flagrant indifference to the public's legitimate concerns\".\n\nA CNN correspondent was interrupted by bystanders and forced to leave during a live report outside TEDA Hospital. A journalist from the Beijing News reported that he and two other reporters were chased by police, caught, searched, and made to delete photographs from their cameras and computers.\n\nImmediately following the blasts the company website was taken down fuelling suspicions that an attempt was being made to shield owners with powerful political connections. For several successive days, local residents seeking compensation for their homes protested in front of the venue of the daily press conference, they were joined by distraught families of missing firefighters, and confronted police angrily.\n\nThe Chinese public security minister threatened severe punishment for those found to be responsible for the explosions. However, the authorities did not release any significant information for several days about the chemicals and circumstances, causing public anger to mount during this time. Marking an official change of tack that suggested top-level endorsement, the official \"People's Daily\" joined in to criticise local officials' lack of candour and their use of bureaucratic jargon. In addition, the \"Global Times\" remarked on the inadequacy of emergency response and the reluctance of high-ranking officials to answer the public's questions and address their concerns until four days after the blasts. The \"People's Daily\" acknowledged that public scepticism of the reported death toll was fuelling rampant rumours; there was also disquiet over the emergency assistance provided and the way the aftermath was being handled. Attempting to defuse widespread anger at the lack of official transparency, mouthpieces of the ruling party declared that investigations would be thorough and transparent. Former deputy mayor, Yang Dongliang, was put under investigation for corruption; mayor Huang Xingguo proclaimed his \"unshirkable responsibility for this accident\". Authorities also released information about the ownership of Ruihai, as well as a confession by one beneficial owner for the proxy shareholdings.\n\nMeanwhile, Greenpeace Asia alleged that two Sinochem subsidiaries – Sinochem Tianjin Binhai Logistics Company (with a site) and Tianjin Port Sinochem Hazardous Goods Logistics Company Ltd. – had warehouses in the vicinity in close proximity to a primary and a nursery school, meaning that both were also in similar breach of laws.\n\nObservers stated that top officials always attempt to show such disasters as isolated instances, have never accepted political accountability nor addressed the underlying governance issues, and have always heavily censored any criticism of the central government. Willy Lam, professor at CUHK and senior fellow at The Jamestown Foundation, noted the highly unusual 4 days it took for Li Keqiang to make an official visit, suggesting that the lack of a top-ranking visitor to a major disaster site within 48 hours despite the proximity to Beijing reflected \"division among the leadership on who should be the fall guy.\"\n\nTianjin officials announced that as at the deadline on 3 September 2015, more than 9,000 households out of some 17,000 affected by the explosions had signed agreements to settle their damages claims. It was reported that some had chosen to sell their damaged apartments to private developers, who offered them around 130% of the original purchase price, while others accepted an offer from the local government promising to fix the damaged apartments. The local government offered an additional of ¥20,000 renminbi ($3,100) to those who agreed to settle their claims by the deadline. \"New York Times\" journalists, however, reported that some owners had faced heavy pressure from government officials to settle; similarly, owners who were employees in state-owned enterprises were under threat of dismissal from their bosses for not settling.\n\nOn 10 September 2015 China Daily reported that families of the firefighters killed in the explosions would each receive compensation of 2.3 million yuan (US$360,669), citing a report in Beijing News. It was also reported that a monument would be built on the site and that the government planned to compensate residents whose houses were damaged by repurchasing them at 1.3 times their purchase price.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18520388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18520388", "title": "Afro-Costa Ricans", "text": "Afro-Costa Ricans\n\nAfro-Costa Ricans are Costa Ricans of African ancestry.\n\nCosta Rica has four small minority groups: Mulattoes, Blacks, Amerindians and Asians. About 8% of the population is of Black African descent or Mulatto (mix of European and black) who are called Afro-Costa Ricans. Most of them are English-speaking descendants of 19th-century black Jamaican immigrant workers.\n\nThe first black people who arrived in Costa Rica came with the Spanish conquistadors. Slave trade was common in all the countries conquered by Spain, and in Costa Rica the first blacks seem to have come from specific sources in Africa- Equatorial and Western regions. The people from these areas were thought of as ideal slaves because they had a reputation for being more robust, affable and hard-working than other Africans.\nThe slaves were from what is now the Gambia (Mandingas), Guinea (specifically Wolofe), Ghanaian (Ashanti), Benin (specifically Ije / Ararás) and Sudan (Puras). Many of the slaves were also Minas (i.e. slaves from parts of the region extending from Ivory Coast to the Slave Coast), Popo (be imported tribes as Ana and Baribas), Yorubas and Congas (perhaps from Kongasso, Ivory Coast). Slaves also came from other places, such as neighboring Panama.\nHowever, the following century witnessed a gradual lessening of the differences between blacks and their white owners. As whites took black women as their concubines, they freed the children that were born from this union. The same thing started to happen with the \"zambos\", born of Amerindians and blacks. During the time of slavery, the slaves worked on cattle ranches of Guanacaste and the Central Valley plantations and cacao plantations in Matina, whose situation was more difficult. Over time, many whites freed their slaves and slavery was abolished in 1823, along with the other Central American countries.\n\nThe largest Costa Rican black community is from the Caribbean, which today constitutes the majority of the Costa Rican black population. Costa Rica has the largest Jamaican diaspora after Cuba and Panama and its development as a nation is witness to this contribution.\n\nSince 1850, fishermen of Afro-Caribbean origin began to settle in the Caribbean coast of Costa Rica, especially from Panama and the West Indies. They stayed in temporary camps during fishing seasons, from March to September, to plant coconuts, cassava, and yams, which were then harvested the following season. Since 1828, some of these fishermen began to settle in Costa Rica permanently with their families.\n\nTowards the second half of the 19th century, coffee became the main export of Costa Rica. The crops were transported from the Pacific Coast, by an inaccessible jungle terrain of the Atlantic Coast. To be taken to Europe, they had to turn back to South America, which increased the cost and removed competitiveness . To remedy this situation, in 1871 a railway and a port on the Atlantic Coast were constructed. Because of the scarcity of local labor, workers were imported from Italy, China, and the Caribbean and Central America. This coincided with an employment crisis in Jamaica that caused an exodus to neighboring countries. So on December 20, 1872, the \"Lizzie\", the first boat from Jamaica, arrived at the port of Limón with 123 workers to work on the railroad. From this moment, the number of Jamaican workers in Limon increased rapidly and the next year already saw over 1,000 Jamaican workers in the port, mostly of Ashanti origin.\n\nMany Jamaicans intended to return home, but most remained in the province of Limón on the Caribbean Coast. In 1890 the railways suffered a financial crisis, forcing many workers to sustain themselves by working in agriculture. This in turn saw the laborers establishing relationships and cultural exchanges with native populations of these areas. Later, the Jamaican workers began working for the banana industry, whose production grew to its peak in 1907.\n\nUsually these workers lived on the plantations and had little knowledge of Costa Rica beyond their immediate environment. The contact was minimal because the Costa Rican banana plantations were in foreign hands. They did not speak Spanish and retained Jamaican customs. They had their own schools with teachers brought from Jamaica. Until 1949 Costa Rica had segregation laws where Blacks lived exclusively in the Caribbean Province of Puerto Limón. By 2011 Afro-Costa Ricans were spread in all 7 Costa Rican provinces: 32% of them in San José, 16% in Alajuela, 15% in Limón, 10% in Heredia and 8% in Cartago and Guanacaste. Today, Afro-Costa Ricans are part of different disciplines and fields in Costa Rica.\n\nEight percent of the population is Afro-Costa Rican (black or mulatto), compared to 2.4 percent who are Amerindian and 83 percent who are of European heritage (including castizo and mestizo). In the province of Guanacaste, a significant portion of the population is Afro-mestizo, descended from a mix of local Amerindians, Africans and Spaniards. Until 1949 most Afro-Costa Ricans lived in Limón and were denied Costa Rican citizenship and thus the right to vote.\n"}
{"id": "22120932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22120932", "title": "AngloMockBa", "text": "AngloMockBa\n\nAngloMockBa is an international/British-Russian festival of arts, fashion, film, media, music, ideas and literature to be held in Moscow from 1–3 May. \n\nIt is understood to be the second edition of the Jewel of Russia Festival. According to the festival website, AngloMockBa is sponsored by TIME, Swissotel and BMI. Guests include leading British and Russian cultural and media personalities such as Michael Nyman, Martha Fiennes, Gavin Turk, Michael Craig-Martin, Stephen Jones, Andrei Konchalovsky, Masha Tsigal, William Orbit, Henry Holland, Dylan Jones and Stephen Frears. \n\nThe festival is directed by Liberatum and Red Square PR.\n\n"}
{"id": "45655698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45655698", "title": "Anti-corruption campaign under Xi Jinping", "text": "Anti-corruption campaign under Xi Jinping\n\nA far-reaching campaign against corruption began in China following the conclusion of the 18th National Congress of the Communist Party of China in 2012. The campaign, carried out under the aegis of Xi Jinping, General Secretary of the Communist Party of China (paramount leader), was the largest organized anti-graft effort in the history of Communist rule in China.\n\nUpon taking office, Xi vowed to crack down on \"tigers and flies\", that is, high-level officials and local civil servants alike. Most of the officials investigated were removed from office and faced accusations of bribery and abuse of power, although the range of alleged abuses varied widely. , the campaign has 'netted' over 120 high-ranking officials, including about a dozen high-ranking military officers, several senior executives of state-owned companies, and five national leaders. More than 100,000 people have been indicted for corruption. The campaign is part of a much wider drive to clean up malfeasance within party ranks and shore up party unity. It has become an emblematic feature of Xi Jinping's political brand.\n\nExecuted largely under the direction of the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection and its Secretary from 2012 to 2017 Wang Qishan along with corresponding military and judicial organs, the campaign was notable in implicating both incumbent and former national-level leaders, including former Politburo Standing Committee (PSC) member Zhou Yongkang and former military leaders Xu Caihou and Guo Boxiong. Such investigations broke the unspoken rule regarding 'PSC criminal immunity' () that has been the norm since the end of the Cultural Revolution.\n\nThe agency directly charged with overseeing the campaign is the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection (CCDI), which, at the time of the campaign, was headed by Secretary Wang Qishan, a politician known for his work in the financial sector and one of the seven members of the Politburo Standing Committee of the Communist Party. Wang was in charge of the day-to-day execution of the campaign. The CCDI's official mandate is to enforce party discipline, combat malfeasance, and punish party members for committing offenses. The CCDI is an internal agency of the party and therefore does not have judicial authority. In general, the CCDI investigates officials and, when necessary, forwards evidence gathered to judicial organs, such as the Supreme People's Procuratorate (in charge of investigation and prosecution), who proceeds to charge the accused with criminal wrongdoing and move the case to trial.\n\nWhile the CCDI formally reports into the Party Congress, nominally the highest representative body of the party which gathers once every five years, and is intended to be an 'independent' agency from a constitutional standpoint, in practice ultimate oversight of the agency falls under the purview of Xi Jinping by virtue of holding the office of General Secretary (i.e., \"de facto\" leader). Xi, who is also President, also directs anti-graft efforts of the military through his holding the office of Chairman of the Central Military Commission (i.e., commander-in-chief). The majority of reporting on the campaign by media sources have highlighted Xi Jinping's direct involvement in managing the campaign, which has become a central hallmark of his term in office. However, formal disciplinary measures meted out to high-ranking officials such as former Politburo members must undergo ratification by the sitting Politburo.\n\nCoordination of anti-corruption efforts in the provinces and state-owned enterprises have been carried out by \"central inspection teams\" (中央巡视组), which reports to the Central Leading Group for Inspection Work, which like the CCDI is also led by Wang Qishan. The inspection teams are typically 'stationed' for a few months at the organization they were tasked with overseeing, and are in charge of thorough audits into the conduct of officials and organizational practices. The inspection teams sends the results of the audits to the CCDI to enact formal investigative procedures such as \"Shuanggui\" (the practice of detaining individual party members for investigation).\n\nThe proposed constitutional changes published on February 25 envision the creation of a new anti-graft state agency that merges the Central Commission for Discipline Inspection and various anti-corruption government departments. The thus formed National Supervisory Commission will be the highest supervisory body in the country, and will be a cabinet-level organization outranking courts and the office of the prosecutor.\n\nAnti-corruption efforts have been on the agenda of successive Chinese leaders, though the effectiveness of these campaigns have varied. Since economic reforms began in 1978, political corruption in China has grown significantly. The types of offenses vary, though usually they involve trading bribes for political favours, such as local businesses trying to secure large government contracts or subordinates seeking promotions for higher office.\n\nAt the 18th Party Congress, both outgoing General Secretary Hu Jintao and incoming party leader Xi Jinping repeatedly emphasized corruption is a threat to the party's survival. Xi made special mention of corruption in his inaugural speech as General Secretary on November 15, 2012. In his first days in office, Xi vowed to crack down on \"tigers and flies\", that is, high-ranking officials and petty civil servants alike. He also warned his colleagues on the Politburo that corruption would \"doom the party and state.\"\n\nThe first salvos of the campaign was the abrupt sacking of Sichuan Deputy Party Secretary Li Chuncheng, which took place in December 2012, shortly after Xi took office as leader of the Communist Party. The first batch of central inspection teams were dispatched in the third quarter of 2013 to various Chinese provinces, including Jiangxi, Inner Mongolia, Chongqing, and Hubei. A handful of provincial-level officials were investigated for corruption and removed from office as a result of the first round of inspection work. Of these regions, the inspection team in charge of Jiangxi uncovered far-reaching official corruption in the province, bringing down about a dozen officials, including Vice Governor Yao Mugen. The inspection work in Hubei province also resulted in about a dozen cases, including that of Vice Governor Guo Youming. In Inner Mongolia, head of the party's regional United Front department Wang Suyi was detained.\n\nMeanwhile, in the latter half of 2013, a separate operation began to investigate officials with connections to Zhou Yongkang, former Politburo Standing Committee member and national security chief. Three sectors in which Zhou was known to carry immense influence were targeted for investigation, including the national oil sector (where Zhou was once a chief executive), Sichuan province (where Zhou was party chief), and security organs (once under the jurisdiction of the Central Political and Legal Affairs Commission, which Zhou headed). Senior officials, such as former China Petroleum chief executive Jiang Jiemin, senior Sichuan officials Li Chongxi and Guo Yongxiang, and former deputy minister of public security Li Dongsheng were all dismissed in 2013. Many of Zhou's former secretaries who later received promotions, including Ji Wenlin, Tan Li, Shen Dingcheng, and Li Hualin, were also rounded up for investigation.\n\nThe fall of Jiang Jiemin – who was seen as a close confidant of Zhou Yongkang and who also held membership on the elite Central Committee of the Communist Party of China – in September 2013 was seen as an unmistakable sign that the net was closing in on Zhou himself. On December 15, 2013, \"The New York Times\", in a front page article, confirmed that Zhou Yongkang was the ultimate target of the campaign, and that it would be only a matter of time before the investigation was made public. On January 30, 2014, \"Caixin\", a Chinese website known for its investigative journalism, released a video and an accompanying article entitled \"The Three 'White Gloves' of Zhou Bin\", detailing allegations about the wrongdoing of Zhou Yongkang's son, without mentioning the senior Zhou directly as a means to skirt censorship rules.\n\nIn November 2013, a second round of inspection teams were dispatched. These teams were sent to the provinces of Shanxi, Jilin, Yunnan, Anhui, Hunan and Guangdong, as well as the Xinhua News Agency, the Ministry of Commerce, and the state-owned company overseeing the construction of the Three Gorges Dam. In Guangdong, the inspections resulted in the abrupt downfall of the populist party chief of the provincial capital, Guangzhou, Wan Qingliang. In Yunnan, former provincial party chief Bai Enpei and Vice Governor Shen Peiping were implicated in corruption and detained.\n\nIn Shanxi, a coal-producing province in central China, the stationed inspection team picked up on a corruption labyrinth that seeped into almost all aspects of governance in the province, particularly the collusion between local politicians and business elites, most of whom ran coal companies. The inspection initially resulted in the dismissal of Deputy Party Secretary Jin Daoming, Vice Governor Du Shanxue, and Ling Zhengce, the brother of the once powerful chief presidential aide Ling Jihua.\n\nThe political drama in Shanxi played out over the third quarter of 2014, as the province experienced a wholesale cleansing of its political establishment with ferocity unseen in the post-Mao era China. Between August 23 and 29, 2014, four sitting members of the province's top governing council, the provincial Party Standing Committee, were sacked in quick succession, giving rise to what became known as the \"great Shanxi political earthquake\". The province's Party Secretary Yuan Chunqing was then abruptly transferred out of office, as the central authorities 'parachuted' then Jilin party chief Wang Rulin to take his place. During the transfer-of-power announcement in the provincial capital Taiyuan, Politburo Standing Committee member Liu Yunshan sat centre stage as party organization officials and provincial politicians ran the motions and exchanged obligatory political declarations to stabilize the province and maintain unwavering loyalty to the party centre.\n\nAs the public awaited word on the fate of Zhou Yongkang amid intense rumours circulating inside the country and in international media, on June 30, an explosive announcement came from Beijing that General Xu Caihou, former member of the Politburo and Vice Chairman of the Central Military Commission from 2004 to 2013, was being expelled from the party for taking bribes in exchange for promotions, and facing criminal prosecution. The CMC Vice-Chairman position is the highest position held by a military officer in China, as the Chairmanship (commander-in-chief) is customarily occupied by a civilian. Xu was the highest ranked PLA military officer ever to be implicated in corruption and the first Politburo member investigated for corruption since the sensational sacking of former Chongqing party chief Bo Xilai. Unlike the steady build-up of speculation surrounding the Zhou case, the announcement of Xu's expulsion from the party came without any apparent warning. Reports later surfaced that the 71-year-old general, who was going through medical treatment for bladder cancer at 301 Military Hospital in Beijing, was taken from his sick bed in March 2014 to be investigated.\nA month after Xu's fall, on July 30, 2014, state media finally broke months of silence on Zhou Yongkang with a press release naming him the subject of an investigation into \"severe disciplinary violations.\" The terse news bulletin, carried throughout Chinese media, signalled that Zhou was \"no longer a comrade\" but did not discuss criminal wrongdoing. Zhou was likely placed under some form of house arrest long prior to the announcement. The official confirmation that Zhou was under investigation made him the first Politburo Standing Committee member to fall from grace since the end of the Cultural Revolution, and broke the unspoken rule of \"PSC criminal immunity\" that has been the norm for over three decades. Moreover, it was unusual that the case against Zhou was pursued despite his having retired from office in 2012. Prior to Xi's ascension to power, corruption cases were typically targeted towards incumbent Politburo members, such as Chen Xitong, Chen Liangyu, and Bo Xilai. Zhou would be formally expelled from the party in December 2014, after the Politburo reviewed findings of his case. The internal investigation concluded that Zhou abused his power, maintained extramarital affairs with multiple women, took massive bribes, exchanged money and favours for sex, and \"leaked state and party secrets.\"\n\nThe fourth quarter of 2014 saw another flurry of officials detained for investigation. Criminal proceedings had also begun. On July 31, Wang Suyi was sentenced to fifteen years in prison for bribery. On August 5, Tong Mingqian was convicted of dereliction of duty in a vote-buying scandal and sentenced to five years in prison. In September 2014, the trial of former economic official Liu Tienan became the first high-profile televised trial of the campaign. On camera, a teary-eyed Liu recanted his crimes and lamented having ruined the future of his son, who was said to be complicit in his corrupt activities.\n\nOn December 22, 2014, Ling Jihua, former senior aide to paramount leader Hu Jintao and a political star whose ambitions were quashed by the untimely death of his Ferrari-driving son, also fell under the anti-graft dragnet. Ling was serving as the head of the party's United Front Work Department at the time, and also was Vice-Chairman of the Chinese People's Political Consultative Conference (CPPCC), a legislative advisory body. Ling hailed from the prominent Linghu political family from Pinglu County, Shanxi. Several of his relatives were reported as having been investigated beginning in the third quarter of 2014, in what seemed to be another 'encirclement campaign' similar to what was happening with Zhou Yongkang. It was later alleged that Ling served as somewhat of a ringleader for the so-called Xishan Society, a secret society-like network of high officials from Shanxi province.\n\nSu Rong, the fourth 'big tiger' who was then also serving as CPPCC Vice-Chairman, was already 'netted' earlier in the year, but was officially expelled from the party in February 2015. Su was better known for his lengthy career as party chief in three Chinese provinces, but his term in Jiangxi (2007 – 2013), where corruption was said to have flourished under his watch, was cited as the major reason for his downfall.\n\nSeveral provinces have faced the brunt of the anti-corruption campaign: Guangdong, Shanxi, Sichuan, and Jiangsu. In addition to tackling corruption, the campaign has also had the effect of reducing regional factionalism and dissecting entrenched patron-client networks that have flourished since the beginning of economic reforms in the 1980s. Xi Jinping had declared in his speeches that internal factionalism is as harmful to the party's ability to govern as corruption. As of November 2015, all 31 provincial-level divisions, including municipalities like Beijing and Shanghai, which were once considered to be relatively free of corruption, have seen at least one provincial-level official investigated for corruption.\n\nOf the most heavily targeted provinces, Shanxi has been the most notable 'disaster zone', with a total of nine officials of provincial rank investigated or dismissed for corruption, five of which were sitting members of the provincial party standing committee, the province's highest \"de facto\" governing body. At the time of the 18th Party Congress in November 2012, there were 13 seats on the provincial standing committee. By March 2015, less than a year after the \"political earthquake\", only three members of the original group remained, and only two members were born and raised in Shanxi province. The remainder have been removed from office, transferred out of the province, or otherwise replaced, indicating that the central authorities from Beijing had essentially 'taken over' political control of the province from Shanxi locals. Moreover, many municipal and local district leaders were also sacked and investigated for corruption in quick succession, such as in the cities of Datong, Lüliang, Yuncheng, Yangquan, and the provincial capital Taiyuan. According to official data, in 2013 alone, 26 officials of prefecture-department rank (厅局级) and 336 officials of county-division rank (县处级) were disciplined in Shanxi province.\n\nIn 2014, 17 county-level party chiefs were investigated in Shanxi. The sheer extent of the 'damage' the campaign inflicted on Shanxi's political scene was so great and the changes so abrupt that some important posts were left vacant for nearly a year. The inspection teams in the province uncovered widespread collusion between those who hold political power and the \"coal bosses\" that stack their wallets in exchange for favourable treatment in approving development projects. Even officials who were previously seen as incorruptible eventually caved into the systemic culture of graft.\n\nIn Guangdong, the campaign severely upset the political ecosystem that had long been dominated by native Cantonese politicians. Wan Qingliang, the popular and relatively youthful party chief of Guangzhou known for his frugality and accessibility, was sacked in the third quarter of 2014, and was also replaced by an outsider, former Tianjin vice mayor Ren Xuefeng. The province's top political advisor, Zhu Mingguo, also became one of the few incumbent officials of full provincial rank to be investigated for corruption. Vice Governor Liu Zhigeng, another native Cantonese official who was once the party chief of Dongguan, and Zhuhai party chief Li Jia, who had spent his entire political career in Guangdong, were also sacked. The breaking down of local patronage networks had already begun before the 18th Party Congress, and continued with greater intensity following the Congress under newly anointed party chief Hu Chunhua. The party leadership team in Shenzhen, China's most successful Special Economic Zone, also underwent significant changes, with party chief Wang Rong moving to a provincial office; several of Wang's subordinates were investigated for corruption.\n\nIn Jiangsu, home province of former party leader Jiang Zemin and disgraced security chief Zhou Yongkang, several 'native sons' with seemingly promising political futures underwent investigation. Nanjing mayor Ji Jianye was the \"first tiger\" to fall in the province. His dismissal was trumpeted by the city's then party chief Yang Weize as having \"removed a tumour\" from the provincial capital. In January 2015, Yang himself was also detained for investigation. Former provincial party secretary-general Zhao Shaolin and Executive Vice Governor Li Yunfeng were also rounded up for investigation.\n\nZhejiang, 'home turf' of paramount leader Xi Jinping and the site of much smaller-scale anti-corruption experimentation during Xi's term as party chief there, had been largely spared of high-profile political changes in the wake of the anti-corruption campaign. Whether this is because Xi instilled a puritan political culture in the province during his tenure there or because officials with patronage links to him were given favourable treatment was unclear. As of 2016, former provincial Party Standing Committee member Si Xinliang was the sole high official from the province to be investigated for disciplinary offenses.\n\nNotably, many of those investigated had served in the past as Party Chiefs of provincial capitals, making the position especially 'susceptible' for investigation. For example, Taiyuan (Chen Chuanping, Shen Weichen), Nanning (Yu Yuanhui), Jinan (Wang Min), Guangzhou (Wan Qingliang), Nanjing (Yang Weize), Xining (Mao Xiaobing), Urumqi (Li Zhi), Lanzhou (Lu Wucheng), Kunming (Qiu He, Zhang Tianxin, Gao Jinsong), and Chengdu (Li Chuncheng).\n\nReaction to the campaign has been mixed. It is believed to enjoy popular support among most ordinary Chinese, but has raised some concerns in the country's legal community. Much of the press coverage surrounding the campaign has included speculation over its aims and the political and economic effects of the campaign. Other observers have noted that the campaign takes place outside of the framework of legal due process, and that the campaign addresses only the symptoms and not the systemic causes of the problem.\n\nThe notion that the entire campaign amounts to nothing more than a \"political purge\" has been advanced in Western media outlets. British news magazine \"The Economist\" wrote in its \"Banyan\" column, \"it is hard not to see corruption allegations as the latter-day weapon of choice in the winner-takes-all power struggles that the party has always suffered\". Meanwhile, He Pin, editor at overseas Chinese news portal Boxun, likened Zhou Yongkang, Bo Xilai, Ling Jihua, and Xu Caihou, to a latter-day \"Gang of Four\", whose real crime was not corruption but conspiring to usurp power. Chinese writer Murong Xuecun, a continual critic of the Chinese Communist Party, wrote in an opinion article \"In my view, Xi's anti-corruption campaign looks more like a Stalinist political purge... he relies on the regulations of the party and not on the laws of the state, the people carrying it out operate like the KGB, and most cases cannot be reported on with any transparency.\"\n\nFactional struggle has been proposed as another explanation. \"The Economist\" cited a study by an Australian scholar which concluded that no Princelings, or descendants of the early Communist revolutionaries otherwise known as the \"red second generation\", have been targets of the anti-corruption campaign. Xi, himself considered a princeling; some also consider CCDI chief Wang Qishan a princeling through his father-in-law. However, the cohesiveness of the princelings as a political faction with similar policy preferences has not been well established. Indeed, just prior to Xi's ascension to power, Bo Xilai, arguably China's most high-profile princeling, was ousted from office as party chief of Chongqing and member of the Politburo. At the same time, between 2013 and 2015, almost all the high-level officials investigated or removed from office were from 'commoner' backgrounds, most of them farmers.\nOther observers acknowledge the campaign may be intended to achieve political ends but depict its ultimate aims as something far less sinister. Li Weidong, former editor of the \"Reform\" magazine in China, told Voice of America that by signalling that no one is off limits and by targeting retired officials, the campaign aimed to reduce the undue influence of party \"elders\" who were no longer in office but nevertheless wanted to interfere in political affairs. Writing for Radio Free Asia, Liu Qing, among others, suggest that the campaign's main aim was to extinguish vestiges of influence of former paramount leader Jiang Zemin.\n\nJiang's time in power saw a marked increase in patronage appointments that spanned the military, the provinces, and the party apparatus. Patron-client relationships, rather than merit, became the primary factor in securing promotions, giving rise to the formation of internal factions based on personal loyalty. Prominent examples of factions identified by observers include Jiang's Shanghai clique, Zhou Yongkang's spheres of influence in the state oil and public security sectors, and the so-called Xishan Society of Shanxi officials – apart from these well-known cases, political factionalism seemed to be the order of the day down to the lowest levels of party bureaucracy. This meant that factional patrons often exerted massive influence through informal channels rather than through the offices they hold. Indeed, the refusal of Jiang Zemin to relinquish his influence years after he had formally left office was said to have caused much unease with the party rank-and-file. It also had unduly constrained the ability of his successor Hu Jintao to enact systemic reforms or to carry out a cohesive agenda. By reversing this part of Jiang's legacy, some observers believe, Xi would be better equipped to discipline and unite the party under a common agenda. Proponents of this view believe that the ultimate aim of the campaign is to strengthen the role of institutions and stamp out factionalism and networks of personal loyalty, thereby creating a more united and meritocratic organization and achieving greater efficiency for governance.\n\nSeveral Chinese-language media sources rejected the notion that the corruption campaign should be likened to a political purge, calling this view naive and overly cynical. \"Duowei\" wrote that the campaign is part of a wider agenda of systemic reform aimed at restoring legitimacy of the Communist Party's mandate to rule, which – in the decades immediately prior – was heavily challenged by widespread corruption, a widening gap between rich and poor, social injustice, and excessive focus on material wealth. In this view, the campaign is consistent to the other initiatives focused on social justice undertaken by Xi, including pushing ahead legal reform, abolishing re-education through labour, and castigating local officials from meddling in judicial proceedings. Moreover, many officials implicated in the campaign were long retired or no longer serving in influential roles, and therefore posed no direct political threats to the incumbent administration. Chinese sociologist Hu Xingdou told \"Deutsche Welle\" that the campaign was only the first stage of a long-term strategy aimed at genuinely tackling corruption and speculated that the second stage will include the establishment of independent anti-corruption organs.\n\nBrookings Institution China scholar Cheng Li, in an article entitled \"Debunking Misconceptions About Xi Jinping’s Anti-corruption Campaign\", asserted that attributing ulterior motives to the campaign was not only wholly misleading but also unproductive. Li believes that not only has Xi's campaign had the effect of truly curbing corrupt practices at all levels of government, it has also restored public confidence in the Communist Party's mandate to rule, and has also returned massive ill-gotten gains back into state coffers which could be re-directed towards economic development. Li also refuted the \"political purge\" and \"factional warfare\" hypotheses, contending that Xi not only owes some of his own patronage to Jiang but also his anti-corruption drive has widespread consensus in the party.\n\nThe BBC's Jonathan Fenby, among others, believe that the campaign may also be motivated by economic rather than political goals. For example, by tackling graft in state-owned enterprises, seen as bastions of entitlement, entrenched vested interests, and glaring inefficiencies, the government is better able to pursue economic reform programs aimed at liberalizing markets, breaking up monopolies, and reducing state control. Hu Xingdou also suggested the campaign has helped Xi conduct some much-needed \"clean-up\" of entrenched vested interests before pushing ahead with much larger structural reforms.\n\nInvestigations by the party's disciplinary bodies are not part of the state judicial system. When an official is detained for an investigation, known as \"Shuanggui\", they are essentially placed under house arrest and are isolated from the outside world. The subject often must endure days of grueling interrogation. Data from the first half of 2014 showed that the conviction rate of those who were investigated in that time period to be around 99%. The CCDI and its local counterparts usually gather evidence covertly well in advance of detaining the subject. Generally, when an official is announced to be under investigation, the CCDI has already collected an overwhelming amount of hard evidence. China scholar Willy Lam also wrote that the CCDI has seen a massive expansion of its powers since Xi's ascension, and that it was increasingly involved in the governance of the state. Lam also contended that the CCDI seemed to be deriving most of its power from Xi Jinping personally.\n\nConversely, state media and some observers have pointed out that the CCDI has undergone significant structural reform in recent years aimed at making anti-corruption efforts more depoliticized, rules-based, and process-oriented. For much of its history the CCDI has been seen as a body that is largely inept at fighting corruption, but during the term of Hu Jintao the organization began a series of reforms strengthening its independence. Upon Xi's assuming the party leadership, further reforms were enacted to make the CCDI a \"bona fide\" control and auditing organization governed by a sophisticated set of rules and regulations to ensure professionalism and procedural fairness. Under Xi, the CCDI became much less likely to face interference from local barons and vested interests in performing its duties. It has also strengthened internal regulations on the manner in which investigations are to be conducted, to ensure that CCDI officials themselves do not abuse their power and break the very same rules they are tasked with enforcing.\n\nThere was some initial cynicism among the Chinese public about the intent of the campaign and its effectiveness. Earlier on, domestic and international observers commented on the possibility that the campaign is an emblematic feature of Chinese political culture which has, since its imperial days, invariably attempted tackling corruption in a high-profile manner when a new leader comes to power. The 2014 ranking of countries by the Corruption Perceptions Index actually ranked China lower than a year before, falling to 100th from 80th place. However, the extent and reach of the campaign has surprised even the most seasoned Chinese political observers.\n\nThere is a general consensus in the Chinese legal community that the endemic corruption is caused by the lack of an independent judiciary and a failure to enforce laws and regulations. They contend that these problems will not be permanently fixed until much deeper systemic problems are addressed. \"Guanxi\" and other social customs, may have also contributed to the prevalence of practices seen as corrupt from a strictly legal perspective but seem relatively benign from a cultural standpoint. Gift-giving during holidays, securing patrons for career advancement, hosting banquets at expensive restaurants to secure minor deals, exchanging favours, and navigating the complex web of \"guanxi\" to get things done was seen as an ordinary part of Chinese life. Indeed, many people did not see these activities as illegal or even morally problematic. Moreover, many regulations and law governing cadre work and public service were rarely enforced, resulting in two prevailing winds among Chinese officialdom that \"if everyone else is doing it then it must be okay,\" and that \"I probably won't ever be caught anyway\".\n\nFollowing the announcement of the campaign, former premier Zhu Rongji made a rare public statement voicing support for the campaign.\n\nIn October 2016, CCTV-1 aired a documentary which featured the confessions and pleas for forgiveness of some of those convicted called \"Always On The Road\".\n\nIn 2017, a Chinese TV drama series, called \"In the Name of the People\" was released. Its plot revolves around a prosecutor's efforts to unearth corruption in a fictional Chinese city.\n\n"}
{"id": "33942364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33942364", "title": "Belly dance", "text": "Belly dance\n\nBelly dance, also referred to as Arabic dance (, literally: \"oriental dancing\"), is an Arabic expressive dance which originated in Egypt and that emphasizes complex movements of the torso. It has evolved to take many different forms depending on the country and region, both in costume and dance style.\n\nThe term \"belly dance\" is a translation of the French term \"danse du ventre\", which was applied to the dance in the Victorian era, and referred to Egyptian and oriental female dances.\n\nIn Arabic, the dance is known as \"Raqs Sharqi\" (\"Eastern Dance\") or as \"Raqs Baladi\" in Egyptian Arabic (\"Country Dance\" or \"Folk Dance\").\n\nIn common with most folk dances, there is no universal naming scheme for belly dance movements. Some dancers and dance schools have developed their own naming schemes, but none of these is universally recognized.\n\nMany of the movements characteristic of belly dance can be grouped into the following categories:\n\n\nIn addition to these torso movements, dancers in many styles will use level changes, travelling steps, turns and spins. The arms are used to frame and accentuate movements of the hips, for dramatic gestures, and to create beautiful lines and shapes with the body, particularly in the more balletic, Westernised styles. Other movements may be used as occasional accents, such as low kicks and arabesques, backbends, and head tosses.\n\nBelly dancing is believed to have had a long history in the Middle East, but reliable evidence about its origins is scarce, and accounts of its history are often highly speculative. Several Greek and Roman sources including Juvenal and Martial describe dancers from Asia Minor and Spain using undulating movements, playing castanets, and sinking to the floor with \"quivering thighs\", descriptions that are certainly suggestive of the movements that are today associated with belly dance. Later, particularly in the 18th and 19th centuries, European travellers in the Middle East such as Edward Lane and Flaubert wrote extensively of the dancers they saw there, including the Awalim and Ghawazee of Egypt.\nIn the Ottoman Empire belly dance was performed by both boys and women in the Sultan's palace.\nBelly dance in the Middle East has two distinct social contexts: as a folk or social dance, and as a performance art.\n\nAs a social dance, belly dance (also called Raqs Baladi or Raqs Shaabi in this context) is performed at celebrations and social gatherings by ordinary people (male and female, young and old), in their ordinary clothes. In more conservative or traditional societies, these events may be gender segregated, with separate parties where men and women dance separately.\n\nHistorically, professional dance performers were the Awalim (primarily musicians and poets), Ghawazi, and Köçekler. The Maazin sisters may have been the last authentic performers of Ghawazi dance in Egypt, with Khayreyya Maazin still teaching and performing as of 2009.\n\nIn the modern era, professional performers (including dancers, singers, and actors) are not considered to be respectable in the Middle East, and there is a strong social stigma attached to female performers in particular, since they display their bodies in public, which is considered haram in Islam.\n\nMany bellydancers work in Cairo.\n\nThe modern Egyptian belly dance style (and the modern costume) are said to have originated in Cairo's nightclubs then been used in Egyptian cinema. Many of the local dancers went on to appear in Egyptian films and had a great influence on the development of the Egyptian style and became famous like Samia Gamal and Taheyya Kariokka both of whom helped attract the eyes to Egyptian style worldwide.\n\nEgyptian belly dance is noted for its controlled, precise movements.\n\nTurkish belly dance is referred to in Turkey as Oryantal Dans, or simply 'Oryantal'. The Turkish style of bellydance is lively and playful, with a greater outward projection of energy than the more contained Egyptian style. Turkish dancers are known for their energetic, athletic (even gymnastic) style, and their adept use of finger cymbals, also known as zils. Connoisseurs of Turkish dance often say a dancer who cannot play the zils is not an accomplished dancer. Floorwork, which has been banned in Egypt since the mid-20th century, is still an important part of Turkish bellydance.\n\nAnother distinguishing element of Turkish style is the use of a 9/8 rhythm, counted as 12-34-56-789, often referred to as Karsilama rhythm. Karşilama, in Turkish dance, is not a rhythm but a folkdance performed in a line, where as a 9/8 (dokuz sekiz) rhythm defines the count of the rhythm and is used both karşilama and Roman havasi.\n\nMany professional dancers and musicians in Turkey continue to be of Romani heritage, and the Roma people of Turkey have had a strong influence on the Turkish style\n\nLebanese style belly dance is somewhere between the Egyptian and Turkish styles. Lebanese dance takes from the classic oriental dance, but still incorporates a feisty, modern edge. There are large steps, backward leans to the torso, twisting hip rotations, large and busy arms and lots of shimmies. The types of techniques that are used in Lebanese style dance are quick layered shimmies and subtle internal movements. Lebanese dancers sometimes include kicks, splits, deep back bends, and Turkish drops.\n\nBelly dance was popularized in the West during the Romantic movement of the 18th and 19th centuries, when Orientalist artists depicted romanticized images of harem life in the Ottoman Empire.\n\nAlthough there were dancers of this type at the 1876 Centennial in Philadelphia, it was not until the 1893 Chicago World's Fair that it gained national attention. The term \"belly dancing\" is often credited to Sol Bloom, its entertainment director, but referred to the dance as \"danse du ventre\", the name used by the French in Algeria. In his memoirs, Bloom states, \"when the public learned that the literal translation was \"belly dance\", they delightedly concluded that it must be salacious and immoral ... I had a gold mine.\"\n\nAuthentic dancers from several Middle Eastern and North African countries performed at the Fair, including Syria, Turkey and Algeria—but it was the dancers in the Egyptian Theater of The Street in the Cairo exhibit who gained the most notoriety. The fact that the dancers were uncorseted and gyrated their hips was shocking to Victorian sensibilities. There were no soloists, but it is claimed that a dancer nicknamed Little Egypt stole the show. Some claim the dancer was Farida Mazar Spyropoulos, but this fact is disputed.\n\nThe popularity of these dancers subsequently spawned dozens of imitators, many of whom claimed to be from the original troupe. Victorian society continued to be affronted by the dance, and dancers were sometimes arrested and fined. The dance was nicknamed the \"Hoochie coochie\", or the shimmy and shake. A short film, \"Fatima's Dance\", was widely distributed in the Nickelodeon theaters. It drew criticism for its \"immodest\" dancing, and was eventually censored. Belly dance drew men in droves to burlesque theaters, and to carnival and circus lots.\n\nThomas Edison made several films of dancers in the 1890s. These included a Turkish dance, and Crissie Sheridan in 1897, and Princess Rajah from 1904, which features a dancer playing zills, doing \"floor work\", and balancing a chair in her teeth.\n\nRuth St. Denis also used Middle Eastern-inspired dance in D. W. Griffith's silent film \"Intolerance\", her goal being to lift dance to a respectable art form at a time when dancers were considered to be women of loose morals. Hollywood began producing films such as \"The Sheik\", \"Cleopatra\", and \"Salomé\", to capitalize on Western fantasies of the orient.\n\nWhen immigrants from Arab States began to arrive in New York in the 1930s, dancers started to perform in nightclubs and restaurants. In the late 1960s and early '70s many dancers began teaching. Middle Eastern or Eastern bands took dancers with them on tour, which helped spark interest in the dance.\n\nAlthough using Turkish and Egyptian movements and music, American Cabaret (\"AmCab\") belly dancing has developed its own distinctive style, using props and encouraging audience interaction.\n\nIn 1987, a distinctively American style of group improvisational dance, American Tribal Style Belly Dance, (ATS), was created. Although a unique and wholly modern style, its steps are based on existing dance techniques, including those from North India, the Middle East, and Africa. Many forms of \"Tribal Fusion\" belly dance have also developed, incorporating elements from many other dance and music styles including flamenco, ballet, burlesque, hula hoop and even hip hop. \"Gothic Belly Dance\" is a style which incorporates elements from Goth subculture.\n\nBelly dancers are thought to have come to Spain from Lebanon in the time of the Phoenicians (11th Century BC to 5th Century BC). When Arab family of the Umayyad came to Spain, they sent Basque singers and dancers to Damascus and Egypt for training in the Middle Eastern style. These dancers came to be known as Al Andalus dancers. It is theorised that the fusion of the Al-Andalus style with the dances of the Gypsies led to the creation of flamenco.\n\nBelly dance did not return to Spain until the 1980s, with the end of the Catholic regime of Franco.\n\nThe first wave of interest in belly dancing in Australia was during the late 1970s to 1980s with the influx of migrants and refugees escaping troubles in the Middle East, including drummer Jamal Zraika. These immigrants created a social scene including numerous Lebanese and Turkish restaurants, providing employment for belly dancers. Rozeta Ahalyea is widely regarded as the \"mother\" of Australian belly dance, training early dance pioneers such as Amera Eid and Terezka Drnzik. Belly dance has now spread across the country, with belly dance communities in every capital city and many regional centres.\n\nBelly dance has been in evidence in the UK since the early 1960s. During the 1970s and 1980s, there was a thriving Arabic club scene in London, with live Arabic music and bellydancing a regular feature, but the last of these closed in the early 1990s. Several prominent members of the British bellydance community began their dance careers working in these clubs.\n\nToday, there are fewer traditional venues for Arabic dance in the UK; however, there is a large amateur bellydance community. Several international bellydance festivals are now held in Britain. In addition, there are a growing number of competitions, which have increased in popularity in recent years.\n\nThe UK bellydance scene leans strongly towards the Egyptian/Arabic style, with little Turkish influence. American Tribal Style and Tribal Fusion bellydance are also popular.\n\nThe costume most commonly associated with belly dance is the 'bedlah' (; literally \"suit\") style, which typically includes a fitted top or bra, a fitted hip belt, and a full-length skirt or harem pants. The bra and belt may be richly decorated with beads, sequins, crystals, coins, beaded fringe and embroidery. The belt may be a separate piece, or sewn into a skirt.\n\nBadia Masabni, a Cairo cabaret owner during the early 20th century, is credited with creating the modern bedlah style. It has been suggested that the bedlah was inspired by glamorous Hollywood costuming, or created to appeal to Western visitors. Earlier costumes were made up of a full skirt, light chemise and tight cropped vest with heavy embellishments and jewelry.\n\nAs well as the two-piece bedlah costume, full length dresses are sometimes worn, especially when dancing more earthy baladi styles. Dresses range from closely fitting, highly decorated gowns, which often feature heavy embellishments and mesh-covered cutouts, to simpler designs which are often based on traditional clothing.\n\nIn Egypt dancers wear a bedlah. Alternatively they may wear a dress with mesh-filled cutouts.\n\nAs there is no prohibition on showing the abdomen in Lebanon, the bedlah style is more common. The skirts tend to be more sheer than Egyptian outfits, showing more of the dancer's body. The veil is more widely used than in Egypt. High heels are commonly worn. Lebanese dancers have more freedom than Egyptian style dancers in the type of costume they choose to wear.\n\nTurkish costumes are usually in the bedlah style. Distinctive features of many Turkish costumes include a V-shaped or triangular belt which may be shaped or contoured around the top edge, and a great deal of embellishment and beaded fringing on both the bra and the belt. Skirts are often fuller than their Egyptian counterparts, and are likely to be made of chiffon or velvet rather than lycra.\n\nIn the 1980s and '90s a very revealing costume style developed with skirts designed to display both legs up to the hip, and plunging bras or even pasties. Such styles still exist in some venues but there are also many Turkish belly dancers who wear more moderate costumes. Even so, many Turkish belly dance costumes reflect the playful, flirty style of Turkish belly dance.\n\nTribal belly dance costumes draw inspiration from traditional folkloric costumes across the globe and include circle skirts, pantaloons, and turbans or headdresses decked with feathers or flowers.\n\nBelly dance is a non-impact, weight-bearing exercise and is thus suitable for all ages. Many of the moves involve isolations, which improves flexibility of the torso. Belly dance moves are beneficial to the spine, as the full-body undulation moves lengthens (decompress) and strengthens the entire column of spinal and abdominal muscles in a gentle way.\n\nDancing with a veil can help build strength in the upper body, arm and shoulders. Playing the zills trains fingers to work independently and builds strength. The legs and long muscles of the back are strengthened by hip movements.\n\nProfessional belly dancers include:\nThe titular character of the \"Shantae\" series of video games developed by Wayforward Technologies is a belly dancing \"half-genie\", who uses magical belly dances to transform into various animals.\n\nThe Brazilian telenovela \"O Clone\" (also known as \"El Clon\" in Spanish-speaking countries and the United States) is set in Brazil and Morocco and featured belly dancing in many episodes. The lead character, Jade (Giovanna Antonelli), used it to entice her lover Lucas (Murilo Benício) and to soothe and seduce her husband Said (Dalton Vigh).\n\nSeveral James Bond films (including \"From Russia with Love\") and music videos have featured belly dancers. In \"The Man with the Golden Gun\", the belly dancer Saida wears a spent bullet in her navel, which Bond accidentally swallows while trying to retrieve it.\n\nDocumentaries about belly dance include \"American Bellydancer\", \"Journey of Desire: A Foreign Dancer in Cairo\", \"Belly, Sensual... Scarred... Sacred\", and \"Bellydancers of Cairo\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21303113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21303113", "title": "Capayán", "text": "Capayán\n\nThe Capayanes were an indigenous people, now extinct, that lived in Argentine territory.\n\nTheir geographical area was partly of the provinces of La Rioja, Catamarca, San Juan, from the mountainous zone understood to be between the limit of La Rioja with Catamarca on Colorado river and the surroundings of Jáchal river-Zanjón, in San Juan, including Andes, in the western part, up to the cords of the Velasco, where they were mixed with the Diaguitas. They occupied the fertile valleys of Famatina, Sanagasta, Yacampis, Guandacol and Jáchal. They had as neighbors in the northern part the diaguitas and in the southern part the huarpes.\n\nThey shared with the diaguitas or paziocas the language Kakán, or a derivation of it. Vestiges of their language are in completions as bis, wee or small stone, for example: Yacampis, Quilmebis, Guanchina, etc.\n\nThe Capayán knew the technology of the thread, and spun the wool of guanaco and llamas. Also they knew the metallurgy of copper and gold. They constructed channels and irrigation ditches to water their farmlands. Their cultivars were maize, zapallo, potato and quínoa. They widely used ceramics, principally in the production of funeral urns, decorated geometrically with the colors black, red and white, known as Sanagasta style or Angualasto style.\n\nTheir houses were of mud and adobe and were sometimes built at the foot of a great tree used as a roof. This technology of construction still lasts in the Riojan zone of Vinchina.\n\nAbout 1480, the Inca invaded the region of the diaguitas and capayanes, incorporating their territories into the Inca Empire (Tawantinsuyu). From 1607, the Spanish conquest resulted in their dispersion and later extinction at the end of the 18th century. The capayanes took part in an uprising in 1632 together with the olongastas and other diaguitas.\n\nToday a Catamarca's department takes their name (See Capayán Department).\n\nThe etymology of the name started to this people seems to be the word rune simi Kapak ñan (\"Great way\"), that is to say usually so called \" Way of the Inca \". The explanation for this would be in that the territory that they were living age sedates of a knot of communications very importantly in the south of the \"Tawantinsuyu\".\nThe majority of the authors consider the capayán due to the cultural common features (for example the use of the language kakán) as one of the parts of the pazioca (\"diaguitas\"), in the same way that it were the calchaquíes, olongastas, quilmes, though they would have differed for the genetic and cultural influence of the neighbors huarpes and after 1480 for the presence of Mitmakuna deported persons up to the region for the Incas, many of such mitimaes would have trade and manufacture of alcoholic maize drink and churumata.\n\n"}
{"id": "34867309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34867309", "title": "Child marriage in Afghanistan", "text": "Child marriage in Afghanistan\n\nAccording to UNICEF, child marriage is the \"formal marriage or informal union before age 18,\" and it affects more girls than boys. In Afghanistan, 57% of girls are married before they are 19. The most common ages for girls to get married are 15 and 16. Factors such as gender dynamics, family structure, cultural, political, and economic perceptions/ideologies all play a role in determining if a girl is married at a young age. \n\nThe practice of child marriage has been linked to detrimental consequences for girls, such as the inability to obtain an education and skills to work independently. Girls may also suffer physical harm, as their bodies are often not developed for childbirth, resulting in emotional, mental, and physical trauma for both the girl and her child.\n\nAccording to Afghan Civil Law Article 40, \"marriage is a contract between a male and female \nfor the establishment of a family.\" Article 70 sets the legal age of marriage to be 16 for females and 18 for males; Article 71 (subsection 1) gives a girl's marriage rights to her father or guardian before the legal age of 16, and marriages for minors under the age of 15 are not allowed under any circumstance. Despite the establishment of Civil Law, regional customs take precedence over national law, as well as Sharia law. Due to shortcomings in the implementation of the Civil law, child marriages are still prevalent. \n\nWhile new laws are being introduced progressively, the U.N. Development Programme’s annual Gender Inequality Index still ranks Afghanistan as the sixth worst country for female equality in the world. Statistics from the Afghan Independent Human Rights Commission showed that about 60-80% of the total marriages in Afghanistan are forced and/or underage marriage. \n\nIn 2009, Afghanistan passed the Law on the Elimination of Violence Against Women (EVAW), which guarantees penalties for domestic violence, abuses against women, as well as forced child marriage, yet the implementation of this law has not been thoroughly enforced, as there is also opposition for the law. In 2013, the Afghan parliament passed a law preventing girls from testifying against forced marriages, and the EVAW was protested by students at Kabul University, who deemed it \"un-Islamic\".\n\nIn Islam, marriage represents a couple’s acknowledgement of their social responsibility and an agreement to abide by the marriage contract’s terms and conditions. One of the conditions in the Islam marriage contract requires the verbal and written consent of both the bride and groom, as well as the female’s acceptance of the male’s proposal.\n\nSharia law, also known as Islamic law, dictates the following regulations concerning marriage: \n\nIslam, particularly the Sunni school of Hanafi, is central to Afghan culture. From the mid-18th to mid-19th century, Afghan society was mostly decentralized, leaving different ethnic groups to decide how they should practice and implement Hanafi principles. However, research has shown that family judges often made rulings that ignored the rights of women outlined in Sharia. \n\nLater, from 1880 to 1901, the Afghan ruler Amir Abd al-Rahman Khan created royal decrees based on Sharia which sought to eliminate child and forced marriage. Similarly, as ruler from 1901-1919, his son Amir Habibullah Khan kept the same legislation in place in order to advance the rights of women. \n\nFrom 1973-1978, President Muhammad Daoud passed legislation related to family law, which was based on the more liberal Maliki law, and Decree Number 7 outlawed child marriage for girls under 16 and boys under 18 years of age. Punishment for violators was also implemented, which included imprisonment for up to three years.\n\nBadal, or marriage based on exchange, happens when two families agree to exchange female members of their families, often to offset the cost of a marriage or to strengthen familial ties. Baad, or compensation, is a marriage that occurs to compensate a victim's family if a crime has been committed. Young girls are married into the victim's family, which is supposed to resolve the conflict. Girls are also placed into marriages in order to repay large debts. \n\nIn a study included in the report \"Early marriage in Afghanistan,\" regional differences accounted for a vast difference in child marriage incidence. Of the girls interviewed, 59% came from rural areas while 41% were from urban cities. Of those married at age 12, 75% resided in rural areas, as well. Literacy rate also displayed a strong correlation with child marriage, as out of 200 interviewees, 71% of parents who forced their daughters to marry, as well as 70% of the girls, and 50% of the husbands were illiterate. \n\nPoverty also proves to be a factor, as well, as parents marry girls because they have no financial resources to support them; unfortunately, when a girl is a child bride, it limits the opportunity for employment, and 94.3% of women interviewed reported they were unemployed, as they were subject to a childhood marriage. Daughters may also be given into marriage in order for parents to obtain economic benefits from the dowry, and since parents are often uneducated, marriage seems like an appropriate option for a girl's future stability.\n\nEarly child marriage places both the girl's health, as well as her child's health in jeopardy. Malnutrition, abuse, and HIV infection are a few of the detrimental health complications associated with early marriage. It has been reported that the risk of dying from childbirth and pregnancy is two times higher for girls between the ages of 15 and 19 than for older women. This, compounded with the fact that child marriages tend to occur in societies with poorer healthcare, results in higher rates of pregnancy complications and maternal mortality. \n\nIn Afghanistan, 34.1% of mothers who married early had children that were physically weak and 8.9% have reported that their children were born with a disability, in contrast to children in the United States, where 15 percent of children have a disability. Approximately 40.4% of early wed mothers report having a gynecological disease, and 20.2% suffer from a psychological disease. \n\nOutside of sub-Saharan Africa, Afghanistan has the second highest incidence of maternal deaths, and 32% of all deaths for girls ages 15–19 are pregnancy-related while 47% of deaths for women who were in the age range of 20-24 were also due to pregnancy complications. Fistula is one of the detrimental health effects caused by child marriage, and the 2011 survey conducted by the Social Health Development Program found that of the 3,040 women interviewed, 67% were between the ages of 16 and 20 when they were diagnosed with an obstetric fistula. Young mothers also suffer from pregnancy-induced hypertension as well as a higher risk of HIV infection.\n\nCurrently, the literacy rate for Afghan adolescent girls is about 21%. Once married, a child’s education often comes to an end. Usually, this happens because the child undertakes domestic responsibilities, as well as childcare. However, even if the child manages to get permission to attend school, the school administrators will often deny her a place in school, which is due to a belief that having married girls in a school is detrimental to the morals of unmarried girls. Depriving girls of an education inhibits their ability to obtain sustainable economic opportunities, which limits independence and further subjects them to poverty. A lack of education also forces girls to continue living in abusive situations, as they are unaware of other options.\n\nDomestic violence in Afghanistan is often exacerbated due to a variety of factors, such as poverty, illiteracy, and narcotics. The international NGO Global Rights reports in a 2006 survey that \"more than 85% of Afghan women reported that they had experienced physical, sexual, or psychological violence or forced marriage.\" Adverse health and economic impacts are linked to domestic violence, and studies indicate that approximately 2,000 girls have attempted suicide due to the unbearable conditions they were subject to. Even if girls attempt to escape from an abusive relationship, they are accused of running away, which can lead to arrest. Because they marry at a young age, girls who are child brides also have less power, which places them in a position where they may lack authority in every-day decisions, and research has shown that in time, they may even justify domestic violence.\n\nIn their chapter \"Giving Girls A Chance: An Agenda for Action,\" the United Nations Population Fund outlined the following strategies for improving the conditions of girls who are most vulnerable to early marriage: \n\n\n\n\nVarious international conventions have outlined regulations that prohibit child marriage. The following are organizations that have taken a stance against the practice of child marriage: \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23872543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23872543", "title": "Child pornography laws in the United Kingdom", "text": "Child pornography laws in the United Kingdom\n\nin England, Wales and Northern Ireland Child pornography laws are covered by the Protection of Children Act 1978 (\"the 1978 Act\"), which made it illegal to take, make, distribute, show, or possess for the intent of showing or distributing an indecent photograph of someone under the age of 18. The maximum penalty is 10 years in prison. In the context of digital media, saving an indecent image to a computer's hard drive is considered to be \"making\" the image, as it causes a copy to exist which did not exist before. Indecency is to be interpreted by a jury, who should apply the recognised standards of propriety. \n\nThe prohibition of content on the Internet that is potentially illegal under this law by British internet service providers is however self-regulatory, coordinated by the non-profit charity Internet Watch Foundation (who has partnerships with many major ISPs in the country).\n\nThe 1978 Act was extended in 1994 (by the Criminal Justice and Public Order Act 1994) to cover \"pseudo-photographs\" - images that appear to be photographs. The Sexual Offences Act 2003 amended the age of subjects to which the act applied from under 16 to under 18. In 2008 the Act was further extended (by the Criminal Justice and Immigration Act 2008) to cover tracings, and other works derived from photographs or pseudo-photographs. In 2009 all sexual images depicting under 18s, not just those that were derived from photographs or pseudo-photographs, were criminalised by the Coroners and Justice Act 2009, under which any possession of images also became a criminal offence (whereas before it was legal to possess hard copies of images so long as there was no intention to show or distribute them to others).\n\nSimilar legal provisions exist in Scotland but the 1978 Act does not extend to there.\n\n"}
{"id": "30481722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30481722", "title": "Chinese Haitians", "text": "Chinese Haitians\n\nChinese Haitians (French: \"Sino-Haïtien\") are Haitians of Chinese ancestry who immigrated to or was born in Haiti. There are about 230 Chinese people living in Haiti as of 2010.\n\nMany Chinese people living in Haiti are businessmen in governmental or other businesses while there are other Chinese nationals working in Haitian companies as well. With last names like Wu, Wah, Wawa, Fung, Fong-Ging, Fungcap, were the first known Chinese families arrived in Haiti in the late 1890s, fleeing crumbling dynasties, while continuous waves came into Haiti in the 1970s and 1980s with them mostly coming from Taiwan. There is only one Chinese restaurant in Haiti, the Wujiayuan Restaurant in Pétion-Ville, an upper-class neighborhood in Port-au-Prince. The restaurant was arranged as a shelter during the 2010 Haiti earthquake by China's foreign ministry.\n\nAbout 230 Chinese were in Haiti at the time of the disaster. Most are safe but eight Chinese police officers on a peacekeeping mission died in a collapsed United Nations building.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41862074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41862074", "title": "Corruption in Peru", "text": "Corruption in Peru\n\nTransparency International's 2016 Corruption Perception Index ranks the country 101st place out of 176 countries.\n\nPeru's most prominent political corruption scandal is probably the case of Alberto Fujimori, Peru's ex-President. Fujimori has been convicted of having ordered killings, embezzlement of public funds, abuse of power and corruption during his 10 years of presidency (1990-2000). In 2006, Fujimori fled to Japan with an alleged USD 600 million of public assets. He has been sentenced to a total of more than 30 years in prison.\n\nDuring his rule, Fujimori helped to maintain the government's image of honesty by using his advisor, Vladimiro Montesinos, to carry out the administration's corrupt procedures. Montesinos served as the head of the National Intelligence Service (SIN) where he systemtically bribed politicians, judges, and the news media. An empirical analysis of Montesinos' corruption conducted by John McMillan and Pablo Zoido describes how Montesinos used over 75% of SIN's unsupervised budget to bribe over 1,600 individuals. McMillan and Zoido estimate that at the height of the scandal more than U.S.$3.5 million was being paid monthly to various congressmen, judges and media executives. The most common bribes were paid to television-channel owners which allowed Fujimori's administration to control the media and politically influence Peruvians.\n\nAfter further scandals and facing a second impeachment vote, Pedro Kuczynski, his successor, resigned the presidency on 21 March 2018 following the release of videos showing alleged acts of vote buying, presenting his resignation to the Council of Ministers. As a result of the Odebrecht scandal and other controversies, in 2018 all of Peru's living former president were either imprisoned or the focus of corruption investigations.\n\nIrregular payments and bribes are often demanded from companies operating in Peru, and government contracts are often awarded to well-connected companies. Many companies experience the demand for facilitation payments as a result of Peru's extensive bureaucracy.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41108716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41108716", "title": "Corruption in Sweden", "text": "Corruption in Sweden\n\nCorruption in Sweden has been defined as \"the abuse of power\" by Swedish National Council for Crime Prevention (Brå). By receiving bribes, bribe takers abuse their position of power, which is consistent with how the National Anti-Corruption Unit of the Swedish Prosecution Authority specifies the term. Although bribes and improper rewards are central in the definition of corruption in Sweden, corruption in the sense of \"abuse of power\" can also manifest itself in other crimes such as misuse of office, embezzlement, fraud and breach of trust against a principal.\n\nThe provisions on bribery and taking a bribe are found in Chapter 10 of the Swedish Penal Code. Bribe giving is the criminal act of giving, promising or offering or receiving, accepting a promise of or demanding an improper reward, for the performance of duties. Anything of direct or indirect value to the recipient can be considered an improper reward. The provisions on taking a bribe and giving a bribe are applicable both within the public and the private sector. They are also applicable on acts of bribery committed abroad or if the persons involved are foreign, provided that the acts of bribery are subject to the jurisdiction of Swedish courts.\n\nThe level of corruption in Sweden is very low, according to a 2011 pan-European study by Transparency International. Transparency International's 2017 Corruption Perception Index ranks the country 6th place out of 180 countries. The legal and institutional framework in Sweden are considered effective in fighting against corruption, and the government agencies are characterized by a high degree of transparency, integrity and accountability. However, there are some municipal cases showing signs of irregular public procurement procedures between public and private actors.\nThe low levels of corruption are attributed to an efficient public administration, high quality comprehensive services to citizens and enterprises, and a long tradition of openness and transparency of Swedish society and institutions, along with a strong respect for the rule of law, according to an Anti-corruption European Commission report. According to the same report, The Special Eurobarometer on Corruption places Sweden among the countries with the least corruption in the EU. 40% of Swedish respondents believe that corruption is widespread in their country (EU average: 76%) and 12% feel personally affected by corruption in their daily life (EU average: 26%).\n\nThe number of cases reported, prosecuted and the number of convictions have been stable over time, according to a 2013 study by Brå. The study found that corruption in Sweden can mostly be described as being simple in nature, in that most cases involve smaller amounts, conference travel, dining and such.\n\nThe former Swedish agency Televerket, now a private company TeliaSonera is suspected of involvement in a corruption scandal in Azerbaijan, the Swedish newspaper Svenska Dagbladet reports. \nCorruption by proxy is the term used in these instances.\n\nThe head of facilities management at The Swedish Prison and Probation Service was sentenced to 3.5 years in prison in what in 2016 was the largest corruption case involving a civil servant in Sweden.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3815577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3815577", "title": "Countermovement", "text": "Countermovement\n\nA countermovement in sociology means a social movement opposed to another social movement. Whenever one social movement starts up, another group establishes themselves to undermine the previous group. Many social movements start out as an effect of political activism towards issues that a group disagrees with. “Researchers have used resource mobilization to study all manner of social and political movements such as environmentalism, father's rights groups, religious movements, and abortion rights”. The reason for the start of countermovement groups is that people are competing for resources for political influence. Countermovement groups are a part of American society that try to compete for government legislation to support their own views.\n\nThe resource mobilization theory is an important issue in countermovements. “Research mobilization theory was a response to social psychological theories that focused on grievances and viewed movements as collective identities”. This theory suggests that social movements organize their resources to make changes in society that fits in their views. As a social movement starts growing, there are those who oppose their views and in time start countermovements. \"For example, pro-life and pro-choice movements are countermovements to each other\". Other issues that have countermovement group have to deal with controversial issues as in global warming, fathers’ rights, religion, and war. These movements and countermovements will never have a resolution so they try to pass their views into government legislation. Countermovements main goal is to oppose the other movement to get their views into the mainstream. Many of these movements try to recruit people to gain popularity and in time gain political support.\n\nAn example of a countermovement has to deal with the environmental issues. Even with scientific facts and statistics that global warming exists, there are still groups that disagree that our environment is changing. As Jacques states, \"the reality of doubt in environmental problems is not due to science, but has to deal with politics--global politics to be specific\". Many who are “environmental skeptics” are saying that there are no environmental problems that will threaten humanity. Many of these skeptics are blaming environmentalist for stopping human progress to make standard of living rise. Environmentalists on the other hand blame factions within right-wing politics for this skepticism and becoming an anti-environmental countermovement. Jacques explains that, \"The concentration of skeptical claims from the 1990s onwards indicates an intense burst of interest in the environmental skeptical program and is consistent with a conservative countermovement against global environmental concern\".\n\nFathers’ Rights Groups have become a growing issue in American society. In response to the perceived high number of violent crimes committed against women by their male partners, the battered women’s movement (BWM) has been campaigning for greater awareness of domestic violence . (p. 723) With the widespread understanding that domestic violence is a serious problem in the United States and elsewhere, the BWM has found public support to create “tougher penalties against offenders and public vigilance against potential batterers, including fathers from dissolving families” (p. 723). At least partly in response to this, there has been a counter-movement of activists from the fathers’ rights movement (FRM) who argue that the battered women’s movements have created laws that targets men unfairly. Fathers’ rights groups have grown in numbers since the 1980s in Canada, the United Kingdom, Sweden, Australia, and the United States (p. 727). The fathers’ rights movement has argued that the legal system is making it difficult for them to be 'good fathers.' The FRM employs the argument that being a biological father is different from being a social father because a biological father is simply the individual who makes a genetic contribution, while a social father is one who engages in all of their children’s activities (p. 727) The FRMs \"have tapped into the emerging cultural notion that in the healthiest families fathers are involved in all aspects of their children's daily lives. (p. 727).\n\nThe most controversial of countermovements are about whether abortion should be legal or not, which is fought by pro-life and pro-choice groups. The pro-life group is opposed to abortion under most grounds, notably those \"on request\". Some pro-life proponents believe abortion to be justifiable when serious health issues are present for the mother, while other proponents believe that abortion is unjustifiable under any circumstance. The pro-choice group believes that a women has a right to abortion under all circumstances, often citing human rights do not encompass fetuses before fetal viability. Both of these groups tend to be adamant towards their views and neither sides' arguments seem to convince towards otherwise. “Although the issue of abortion is very controversial, most surveys indicate liberalization of public attitudes towards pregnancy termination between 1965 and the years immediately following Roe v. Wade Supreme Court decision which legalized abortion. Recent polls demonstrate that between 80% and 90% of Americans approve of abortion in the case of poor health, defective fetus, or rape, and between 40% and 50% indicate approval for other reasons. Only 10% would like to prohibit abortion under all circumstances”. There is also information that people who are usually pro-choice or pro-life come from very different backgrounds and have different values. “Sociodemographic analyses indicate that individuals who disapprove of abortion are usually committed to organized religion, such as Roman Catholicism or fundamentalist Protestants, are usually very traditional/conservative with regard to women’s role in life, and are less educated than those who are pro-choice”. Both groups will create logical fallacies because both of these countermovements will not agree to each other's issues. Both of these countermovements try to use emotional appeal by “abortion advocates tie their cause to the importance of ‘choice’, while pro-life activist point out the significance of protecting all forms of life”.\n\nIn summary, countermovements have been a part of every movement. Many of the countermovements have tried to stop the opposing movements to get rid of their movement and control the politics of the issue. All countermovements are competing for resources whether it is political influence, money, or enforcing their doctrine on others. No matter the movement that comes up now or in the future, there is another group who will disapprove and make a countermovement.\n"}
{"id": "7392508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7392508", "title": "Delayed open-access journal", "text": "Delayed open-access journal\n\nDelayed open-access journals are traditional subscription-based journals that provide free online access upon the expiry of an embargo period following the initial publication date.\n\nThe embargo period before an article is made available for free can vary from a few months to two or more years. In a 2013 study, 77.8% of delayed open access journals analyzed had an embargo of 12 months or less. 85.4% had an embargo period of 24 months or less. A journal subscription or an individual article purchase fee would be required to access the materials before this embargo period ends. Some delayed access journals also deposit their publications in open repositories when the author is bound by a delayed open-access mandate.\n\nThe rationale for the access delay is to provide eventual access to all would-be users while still requiring the institutions of researchers who need immediate access to keep paying the subscriptions that cover the costs of publication. The marginal costs of distributing an electronic journal to additional users are trivial in comparison to distributing printed copies of the publication. Delayed access publishers spend little or no additional funds while marketing their publications to a broader population than those with personal subscriptions or those affiliated with institutions that have institutional subscriptions or other forms of institutional access.\n\nThe assumptions underlying delayed access are that (1) active researchers have sufficient access through institutional subscriptions or licenses, that (2) researchers at institutions that cannot afford subscription access to a journal can use interlibrary loan or direct purchases to access the articles they need, and that (3) students and others affiliated with institutions that cannot afford subscription access to a given journal do not generally need to access articles as urgently as researchers do. It is not clear whether these assumptions are valid.\n\nAs a remedy for the fact that in the online era immediate access to research continues to be denied to those who need it most—i.e., researchers—if their institutions cannot afford to pay for it, researchers do have the option of providing open access to their own published research immediately, by self-archiving it in their institutional repositories. A growing number of research institutions and research funders worldwide are now beginning to adopt open-access mandates to ensure that their researchers self-archive.\n\nMany scholarly society journals have adopted the delayed access model. A 2013 study looked at more than 110,000 articles from 492 journals with delayed open access and found the impact factor of articles in delayed open access journals was twice as high as traditional closed access journals (and, three times as high as gold open access journal).\n\nDelayed access does increase access to scholarly research literature for many, but subscribing institutions continue to pay for immediate access during the embargo period. The wide range in embargo lengths – and the fact that open access is both defined and intended as the state of \"immediate access\" – limits the meaningfulness of classifying journals as \"delayed open-access\" journals. For example, Molecular Biology of the Cell has a one-month embargo, whereas Journal of the Physical Society of Japan has a 6-year embargo period. Hence delayed access journals are not included in the lists of open-access journals, such as the Directory of Open Access Journals (DOAJ). In January 2017, the Journal of Experimental Medicine announced that it will now be charging Article Processing Charges for delayed open access. \n\n"}
{"id": "39031198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39031198", "title": "Democratic Front (Bosnia and Herzegovina)", "text": "Democratic Front (Bosnia and Herzegovina)\n\nDemocratic Front (Bosnian and Croatian: \"Demokratska fronta\"; or DF/ДФ) is a social-democratic political party in Bosnia and Herzegovina founded by Željko Komšić, who left the Social Democratic Party of Bosnia and Herzegovina in July 2012.\n"}
{"id": "16645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16645", "title": "Demographics of Kazakhstan", "text": "Demographics of Kazakhstan\n\nThe demographics of Kazakhstan enumerate the demographic features of the population of Kazakhstan, including population growth, population density, ethnicity, education level, health, economic status, religious affiliations, and other aspects of the population. Some use the word Kazakh to refer to the Kazakh ethnic group and language (autochthonous to Kazakhstan as well as parts of Russia, China and Mongolia) and Kazakhstani to refer to Kazakhstan and its citizens regardless of ethnicity, but it is common to use Kazakh in both senses.\n\nOfficial estimates put the population of Kazakhstan at 18,137,300 as of December 2017, of which 44% is rural and 56% urban population. The 2009 population estimate is 6.8% higher than the population reported in the last census from January 1999 (slightly less than 15 million). These estimates have been confirmed by the 2009 population census, and this means that the decline in population that began after 1989 has been arrested and reversed.\n\nThe proportion of men makes up 48.3%, the proportion of women 51.7%. The proportion of Kazakhs makes up 63.6%, Russians 23.7%, Uzbeks 2.9%, Ukrainians 2.1%, Uygur 1.4%, Tatars 1.3%, Germans 1.1%, others 3.9%. Note that a large percentage of the population are of mixed ethnicity.\n\nThe first census in Kazakhstan was conducted under Russian Imperial rule in 1897, which estimated population at round 4 million people. Following censuses showed a growth until 1939, where numbers showed a decrease to 6,081 thousand relative to the previous census done 13 years earlier, due to famines of 1922 and 1933.\n\nBut since 1939 population has steadily increased to 16.5 million in the 1989, according to corresponding year census. Official estimates indicate that the population continued to increase after 1989, peaking out at 17 million in 1993 and then declining to 15 million in the 1999 census. The downward trend continued through 2002, when the estimated population bottomed out at 14.9 million, and then resumed its growth. Significant numbers of Russians returned to Russia. Kazakhstan underwent significant urbanization during the first 50 years of the Soviet era, as the share of rural population declined from more than 90% in the 1920s to less than 50% since the 1970s.\n\nAs of 2003, there were discrepancies between Western sources regarding the population of Kazakhstan. United States government sources, including the CIA World Fact Book and the US Census Bureau International Data Base, listed the population as 15,340,533, while the World Bank gave a 2002 estimate of 14,858,948. This discrepancy was presumably due to difficulties in measurement caused by the large migratory population in Kazakhstan, emigration, and low population density - only about 5.5 persons per km² in an area the size of Western Europe.\n\nStructure of the population (01.07.2008) (Estimates) :\n\nTotal fertility rate by regions of Kazakhstan: Mangystau - 3.80, South Kazakhstan - 3.71, Kyzylorda - 3.42, Atyrau - 3.29, Jambyl - 3.20, Aqtobe - 2.70, Almaty (province) - 2.65, Almaty (city) - 2.65, City of Astana - 2.44, West Kazakhstan - 2.29, Aqmola - 2.19, East Kazakhstan - 2.07, Qaragandy - 2.04, Pavlodar - 1.98, North Kazakhstan - 1.72, Qostanay - 1.70, Republic of Kazakhstan - 2.65. Thus it can be seen that fertility rate is higher in more traditionalist and religious south and west, and lower in the north and east, where the percentage of Slavic and German population is still relatively high.\n\nAccording to the Kazakhstan Demographic and Health Survey in 1999, the TFR for Kazakhs was 2.5 and that for Russians was 1.38. TFR in 1989 for Kazakhs & Russians were 3.58 and 2.24 respectively.\n\nSource: \"UN World Population Prospects\"\n\nKazakhstan's dominant ethnic group Kazakhs, traces its origin to 15th century, when a number of Turkic and some Mongol tribes united to establish the Kazakh Khanate. With cohesive culture and national identity, they constituted absolute majority on the land until Russian colonization.<br>\nRussian advancement into the territory of Kazakhstan began in the late 18th century, when the Kazakhs nominally accepted Russian rule in exchange for protection against repeated attacks by the western Mongolian Kalmyks. In the 1890s, Russian peasants began to settle the fertile lands of northern Kazakhstan, causing many Kazakhs to move eastwards into Chinese territory in search of new grazing grounds. The 1906 completion of the Trans-Aral Railway between Orenburg and Tashkent further facilitated Russian colonization. The first collectivized farms opened in Kazakhstan in 1921, populated primarily by Russians and Soviet deportees. In 1930, as part of the first Five Year Plan, the Kazakh Central Committee decreed the sedentarization of nomads and their incorporation into collectivized farms. This movement resulted in devastating famine, claiming the lives of an estimated 40% of ethnic Kazakhs (1.5 million), between 1930-33. Hundreds of thousands also fled to China, Iran and Afghanistan. The famine rendered Kazakhs a minority within Kazakhstan, and only after the republic gained independence in 1991 did Kazakhs recover a slim demographic majority within Kazakhstan.\n\nDemographics would continue to shift in the 1950-1960s, wherein as part of Nikita Khrushchev's Virgin Lands Campaign, hundreds of thousands of Soviet deportees were relocated to the Kazakh steppes in order to farm. As recognized in the 1959 census, the Kazaks became a minority for the first time in history, comprising just 30% of the total population of Kazakhstan. Russians numbered 42.7%.\n\nAccording to the 2009 census, the ethnic composition of Kazakhstan is approximately: 63.1% Kazakh, 23.7% Russian, 2.9% Uzbek, 2.1% Ukrainian, 1.4% Uyghur, 1.3% Tatar, 1.1% German, 1% Kyrgyz, and <1% Korean, Turkish, Azerbaijani, Belarusian, Dungan, Kurdish, Tajik, Polish, Chechen.\n\nFor current data, use these sites.\n"}
{"id": "30370316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30370316", "title": "Enggano language", "text": "Enggano language\n\nThe Enggano language, or Engganese, is a language of debated linguistic affiliation spoken on Enggano Island off the southwestern coast of Sumatra, Indonesia. It has variously been classified as either an Austronesian language or a language isolate. Roger Blench (2014) considers Enggano to be a language isolate with Austronesian loanwords, while Owen Edwards (2015) classifies Enggano as an Austronesian language with a non-Austronesian substratum. Either way, the general scholarly consensus is that Enggano is an aberrant language that has both Austronesian and non-Austronesian origins.\n\nWhen first contacted by Europeans, the Enggano people had more cultural commonalities with indigenous peoples of the Nicobar Islands than those of with Austronesian Sumatra. For instance, beehive houses were typical of both Enggano Island and the Nicobar Islands. However, there are no apparent linguistic connections with Nicobarese or other Austroasiatic languages.\n\nThe classification of Enggano is controversial, ranging from proposals that negate its inclusion in the Austronesian family all the way to classifications that place Enggano in the Northwest Sumatran subgroup together with other Austronesian languages of the area (e.g. Nias). \n\nBased on the low number of apparent Austronesian cognates, Capell (1982) concludes that Enggano is a language isolate rather than Austronesian as previously assumed. Blench (2009) picks up the question, though he leaves Enggano unclassified. Blench (2014) also considers Enggano to be a language isolate that has picked up Austronesian loanwords, and notes many basic vocabulary items in Enggano are of non-Austronesian origin. Based on lexical evidence from the Enggano language, Blench (2014) considers the Enggano people to be descendants of Pleistocene (pre-Neolithic) hunter-gatherers that had preceded the Austronesians.\n\nSubsequent material collected by Yoder (2011), however, suggests the language is Austronesian after all, albeit lexically divergent. \"Bak\" 'eye', for example, corresponds regularly with Malay \"mata\", but 'die' (Yoder \"ba’a\", Kähler \"ka’a\", presumably a prefix \"ba-\" or \"ka-\" with a root \"’a\") has no apparent connection to Austronesian \"mati ~ matay\"; indeed, of the most stable verb and noun roots, only a third have reasonable Austronesian cognates.\n\nEdwards (2015) also classifies Enggano as an Austronesian language that is a primary branch of Malayo-Polynesian, and notes that it clearly does not fit into the Barrier Islands-Batak subgroup of Malayo-Polynesian. Although Edwards (2015) considers Enggano to be clearly Austronesian, he considers it to be an Austronesian language that has a non-Austronesian substratum rather than a non-Austronesian language with Austronesian loanwords. Edwards (2015) notes that Enggano possesses many aberrant phonological features (such as a small phonological inventory) and a low lexical retention rate, which is more typical of Austronesian languages spoken in eastern Indonesia and Melanesia than rather than those of western Indonesia. Enggano's lexical retention rate (i.e., percentage of lexical items that are cognate with reconstructed Proto-Austronesian forms) is only 21% (46 out of 217 words), while the lexical retention rate for Malay is 59% (132.5 out of 223 words). Some non-Austronesian languages in Southeast Asia, such as Nancowry, Semelai, and Abui also have low lexical retention rates.\n\nEnggano has historically undergone nasal harmony in its identifiable Austronesian vocabulary, where all stop consonants and vowels in a word became nasal after a nasal vowel, and oral after an oral vowel, so that there is no longer a phonemic distinction between them. For example, *eũ’ada’a became \"eũ’ãnã’ã\", while nasal consonants are no longer found in \"’ub\" 'house' or \"’a-rib\" 'five' (cf. Malay \"rumah, lima\"). Enggano is the only western Austronesian language in which *t shifted to , an unusual change that occurred independently several times in Oceanic after *k shifted to glottal stop.\n\nThe only major linguistic treatment of Enggano was conducted by Hans Kähler in 1937; he published a grammar (1940), texts, and a dictionary (1987). However, phonology is limited to a simple inventory and a short paragraph of basic features; the grammar and dictionary disagree with each other, the dictionary is not consistent, some words are not legible, and doubts have been raised about the accuracy of the transcriptions. Nothofer (1992) discusses loanwords and also lists phonemes. Yoder (2011) is a thesis on Enggano vowels, with some comments on consonants; it will be followed here.\n\nStress was once reported to be penultimate but appears to occur on the final syllable. Alternating syllables preceding it have secondary stress.\n\nYoder and Nothofer report seven oral and seven nasal vowels:\n\nDiphthongs are .\n\nVowels do not occur word-initially in Enggano apart from what Yoder analyzes as before another vowel; these are then pronounced as semivowels . (Nothofer counts these as consonants restricted to initial position, which avoids the problem of not uncommon being analyzed as , when sequences of the same vowel are otherwise quite rare.) The vowels are all pronounced as semivowels in vowel sequences after medial glottal consonants , as in (a sp. tree) and 'wild'; otherwise, apart from diphthongs, vowel sequences are disyllabic, as in 'to graze'. optionally triggers a glide after a following glottal consonant, as in 'to say'. Diphthongs lower to etc. before a coda stop, as in 'ten', and undergo metathesis when that stop is glottal, as in 'twenty'. An intrusive vowel appears between glottal stop and another consonant (though not semivowels), as in 'female leader'; this does not affect the pattern of stress.\n\nIn many words, a final vowel transcribed by Kähler is not found in Yoder.\n\nThe offglide of diphthongs lowers before glottal consonants, and a glottal stop may intrude when another word follows, as in 'another'.\nYoder notes that the voiced stops are in complementary distribution, depending on whether the word has nasal vowels, but lists them separately. Voiced oral consonants, , do not occur in words with nasal consonants or vowels. Nasal consonants nasalize all vowels in a word, and there is therefore no contrast between and apart from the contrast between nasal and oral vowels. For example, with the oral stem \"tax\" 'bag', the possessive forms are \"tahi’\" 'my bag' and \"tahib\" 'your bag', but with the nasal stem 'age', the forms are \"’umunu’\" 'my age' and \"’umunum\" 'your age'.\n\nNothofer is similar, but does not list the uncommon consonants and and counts as consonants rather than allophones of vowels. Kähler's dictionary adds , as well as as marginal phonemes, and claims that are only found in southern villages. However, Yoder states that at the time of his research in 2010 there were no differences among the six villages on Enggano Island, and that initial and final are rare in native words. Medial and are in free variation in a few words, with older people preferring and younger speakers .\n\nIndependent and possessive pronouns in Yoder (2010) are,\nMost of these appear to be Austronesian: Compare Malay 1sg \"aku ~ ku\", 1. \"kami\", 1. \"kita\", 2pl \"kalian\", 3sg/pl \"dia\", and suffixes 1sg \"-ku\", 2sg \"-mu\", 3sg \"-nya\", with *k, *t (d), *l, *m, *n having shifted to \"’, k, r, b, d\" in Enggano, and with final consonants and (where possible) vowels being lost.\n\nThe possessive suffixes appear on nouns, and they are often preceded by a vowel. Few forms are attested, but this vowel is \"i\" or \"ai\" after (as with 'bag' in the phonology section), an echo vowel after several other consonants, and with several words not predictable on current evidence: \"’eam – ’ami’\" '(my) fishing rod' (Blench notes that \"’e-\" appears on many nouns in Kähler and may be a prefix, perhaps a determiner; cf. \"’ẽ’\" 'this'), \"dar – daru’\" '(my) husband', \"pi – pia’\" '(my) garden'. In a couple cases, an intact pronoun \"-’u\" or \"-ki\" is appended.\n\nAdjectives commonly have prefixes \"ka-, ka’-, ki-\"; the first two are attested in derivation, and the last is assumed as it is very common and many such adjectives otherwise appear to be reduplicated, as in \"kinanap\" 'smooth' (Yoder 2010).\n\nVerbs may have one or two prefixes and sometimes a suffix. Attested prefixes are \"ba-, ba’-, ia-, iah-, ka-, ka’-, kah-, ki-, kir-, ko-, pa-, pah-, ’a-.\" The functions of these are unknown. \"Ki-\" and \"pa-\" may occur together, as in \"pe, pape, kipe, kipape\", all glossed as 'give'. The three attested verbal suffixes are \"-i, -ar, -a’\" (Yoder 2010).\n\nThe counting system is, or at least once was, vigesimal: Kähler recorded \"kahai'i ekaka\" 'one man' = 20, \"ariba ekaka\" 'five man' = 100, \"kahai'i edudodoka\" 'one our-body' = 400. (The last may be based on two people counting together: each time I count all twenty of my digits, you count one of yours, so that when you have counted all of your digits, the number is 20×20 = 400.) However, most people now use Malay numerals when speaking Enggano, especially for higher numbers. Yoder (2010) recorded the following:\n1–5 are Austronesian, assuming \"ka-\" is a prefix on 'one' and \"’a-\" is a prefix on 2–5. Compare the remaining \"-hai’, -ru, -kər, -up, -rib\" with Lampung \"əsay, rua, təlu, əpat, lima\"; *s, *t, *l, *m have shifted to \"h, k, r, b\" in Enggano, and final consonants and (simple) vowels have been lost. \n\"’aki’akin\" 6 may be reduplication of \"’akər\" 3. \"’arib he ’aru\" 7 is 'five and two'. The two forms for 8 mean 'hugging', from the verb \"pã’ĩõp\" 'to hug', and 9 appears to be 'eight, one coming'; it may be shortened to \"kaba kahai’\" (no \"-i\") in enumeration. Yoder believes 10 may also be a verb, based on an unelicited root \"’ãũp\", as \"ki-\" and \"pa-\" are verbal prefixes (as in \"ki-pa-pe\" 'to give'); indeed, the apparent prefixes on 1–5 are identical to verbal prefixes as well.\n\nNumbers above 10 and 20 are formed with \"he ~ hi\" 'and': \"kĩpã’ãũp he ’aru\" 'ten and two' for 12, \"kahai’ kak he kĩpã’ãũp\" 'twenty and ten' for 30. \"kak\" is 'person', so twenty is 'one person'. Multiples of twenty are formed from \"kak\", as in \"’akər kak he kĩpã’ãũp\" 70, \"’arib kak\" 100 (also \"kahai’ ratuh\" from Malay \"ratus\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1969571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1969571", "title": "Farhad Darya", "text": "Farhad Darya\n\nFarhad Darya Nashir (; ; born September 22, 1962) is an Afghan singer, composer and music producer. He serves as the United Nations Development Program (UNDP) National Goodwill Ambassador for Afghanistan and is involved in numerous charitable organizations, such as \"Music Village\" and others. He has earned affection for not only his music but also patriotism. He has a fan base that stretches from his native Afghanistan to parts of Central Asia, and Tajikistan. Darya sings in various languages including Persian, Pashto, Uzbek, Urdu and English.\n\nDarya was born in Kabul, Afghanistan to ethnic Pashtun parents, he is the grandson of Sher Khan Nashir. He studied Persian literature while attending Kabul University. During this time, he wrote music for other artists under the pseudonym Abr (Cloud), and started playing Afghan and Indian classical music. He later left the university and enrolled in the Afghan Armed Forces.\n\nIn 1990 he immigrated to Germany and began singing again. After traveling through Prague and Hamburg, Darya arrived in Paris, where he would meet Sultana Emam. The two were married in 1993 and moved to Northern Virginia in the United States in 1995. A year later they gave birth to a son, Hejran Darya.\n\nSince Darya's television debut on Afghanistan's television network in 1980, he has released over two dozen albums. He founded a band, \"Goroh-e-Baran\" (meaning \"Rain Band\") with Asad Badie, which became one of the best known Afghan bands in the 1980s. Throughout his career Darya has sold over 2 million copies of albums - the acclaimed ones produced in exile, many of which deal with the Soviet-Afghan War and the resulting misfortunes of the war-torn nation. Most of the music is aimed at helping Afghans bringing peace and unity to their country, and deals with themes of national unity.\n\nHe released his \"Salaam Afghanistan\" album in 2003, with a DVD release of music videos in March 2004.\n\nIn September 2006, Darya's new single \"Salamalek\" in a collaboration with German musician Peter Maffay was released, as part of Maffay's album \"Begegnungen - Eine Allianz für Kinder\". It was Darya's first rock song.\n\nIn August 2007, Darya completed his new album \"HA!\" and was released in Afghanistan, followed by Germany in March 2008. The video of his song Dohle Bezan (Nazdeek Shodan) (\"Talk To Me\"/\"Closer\") from the album HA! premiered on Afghan's national television in February 2008. Later that year, Darya's new album \"Yahoo\" was released.\n\nHe has not worked on a new album since, but has released plenty of singles, including \"Attan\", \"Dew Hai Mast\", \"Nashkenad\" and \"Oo Ghaita\".\n\n\n\nDarya produced additional scoring and lyrics for \"Through Her Eyes\" a film by Mithaq Kazimi in 2007.\n\nDarya produced background music for the film In Foreign Land (1998).\n\n"}
{"id": "51564926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51564926", "title": "Gabbay Award", "text": "Gabbay Award\n\nThe Jacob and Louise Gabbay Award in Biotechnology and Medicine or Gabbay Award is an annual prize established in 1998 by the Jacob and Louise Gabbay Foundation to recognize outstanding work in the biomedical sciences. The award is administered by the Rosenstiel Basic Medical Sciences Research Center at Brandeis University in \"Waltham\", Massachusetts and is worth $15,000. The winner also receives a medal and delivers a lecture on his or her work. \n\nThe award was created to recognise scientists in academia, medicine or industry as early as possible in their careers whose work had outstanding scientific content and significant practical consequences in the biomedical sciences. Previously known as the Jacob Heskel Gabbay Award, it was renamed in 2016 in honor of Jacob's wife, Louise Gabbay, who was instrumental in founding the award.\n\nSource: Brandeis University\n\n"}
{"id": "9642233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9642233", "title": "Halbi language", "text": "Halbi language\n\nHalbi (also Bastari, Halba, Halvas, Halabi, Halvi, Mahari, Mehari) is an Eastern Indo-Aryan language, transitional between Oriya and Marathi. It is spoken by 500,000 people across the central part of India. It uses SOV word order (subject-object-verb), makes strong use of affixes, and places adjectives before nouns. It is often used as a trade language, but there is a low literacy rate.\n\nThe Mehari dialect is mutually intelligible with the other dialects only with difficulty. There are an estimated 200,000 second-language speakers (as of 2001). In Chhtisgarh Schooled males are fluent in Hindi. Some first language speakers use Bhatri as second language.\n\nHalbi is written in the Oriya & Devanagari script.\n"}
{"id": "3015921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3015921", "title": "Home Alive", "text": "Home Alive\n\nHome Alive is a Seattle-based anti-violence organization that offers self-defense classes on a sliding scale payment system. Home Alive once operated as a non-profit organization and now continues to operate as a volunteer collective. Home Alive sees its work as integrated into larger social justice movements, recognizing how violence is often perpetuated through oppression and abuse. Home Alive classes included basic physical self-defense, boundary setting, and advanced multi-week courses.\n\nFollowing the rape and murder of local singer Mia Zapata in 1993, a number of artists and musicians within Seattle began to meet and discuss the problems of violence within the community, and the lack of available resources such as self-defense classes, which were considered impractical and somewhat unaffordable. The birth of this organization was informal, with meetings originating as heated discussions in the living rooms of concerned women from the scene. However the group had trouble deciding how to organize and agreeing on the best methods of self-defense training to teach, so they chose to bring in teachers to help direct the course of their learning.\n\nThis group of women, now recognized as the founders of the organization, pooled resources such as arts and music benefits in order to raise funds and study self-defense. Classes were provided to the community originally for free, but then later on a sliding scale basis. This change occurred because the founders were advised not to offer the classes for free because attendees would not value the class if they did not pay for it. However, no one was turned away due to lack of funds. The group continues this work, providing classes to individuals, as before; but expanding to also educate establishments such as schools and businesses. With primary support still coming from the arts community, Home Alive continues to ground its self-defense education in a movement for social justice.\n\nViolence occurs in childhood sexual abuse, date rape, intimate partner violence, and sexual harassment. The founders tried out other self-defense classes but they found them lacking due to prices, and they offered restrictive rules for women. These rules included how women should dress conservatively and to never walk alone, thus this was another decision to create Home Alive.\n\nHome Alive offers tools, not rules, to everyone seeking more safety and connection in their lives. They promote consensual behavior, and believe that we all have a responsibility to respect each other's boundaries and right to self-determination. Home Alive taught not only physical self-defense but as well verbal boundaries like saying \"no\" when feeling uncomfortable, escape route techniques and much others including going to a therapist, writing in a journal, talking to friends and exercising. For the organization self-defense meant to do anything to make oneself feel strong and able to take care of oneself in order to feel safer.\n\nHome Alive moved to the Capitol Hill district in 2004.\n\nOn June 14, 2010 members of Home Alive's Board of Directors, together with the instructor collective, decided to close as a 501(c)(3) organization and to lay the Home Alive program dormant after 17 years in the community. They announced their decision to close in an email sent out to the Home Alive and Capitol Hill community, choosing to celebrate their years of work with an all ages party at Hidmo Eritrean cuisine featuring live music and an open mic. Home Alive included suggestions for other self-defense organizations in the wake of their closure such as INCITE! Women of Color Against Violence and Northwest Network as well as others.\n\nDeactivation occurred because of how difficult it was to maintain non-profit structure for the organization, as well as finding space and dependable funding. Members also found it difficult to maintain consistent leadership for the group, causing it to fall into disorganization. Home Alive consequently decided to move away from the formalized government structure of a non-profit and instead chose to create a website teaching self-defense. The website includes all of the curriculum and became volunteer-based.\n\nSince 2010 they have strayed away from the non-profit aspect of the organization and instead formed a small, loosely functioning volunteer collective. They also teach a handful of classes at high schools and for other progressive organizations. They have their curriculum available online for all to use.\n\nOn July 3, 2012 four Home Alive instructors, with the assistance of a few dedicated community members, launched a new website, Teach Home Alive, a site dedicated to archiving and sharing Home Alive's curriculum.\n\nThere are other resources that are available to victims as well as people looking to prevent violence against women or other groups. One of these is \"Her Wits About Her\": a powerful anthology that relates dozens of true self-defense success stories by women, dispelling the pervasive myth that it's better not to fight back. This book demonstrates how often a combination of strategies (yelling, negotiating, striking, positive self talk) can be incredibly effective in dangerous situations.\n\nHome Alive co-founder Cristien Storm's first book \"Living in Liberation: Boundary Setting, Self-Care and Social Change\" is a great visionary resource. Cristien argues that responses to violence can and should embody boundary setting, self care, and self-defense skills that interrupt victim-blaming, fear-based approaches and locate healing within the social context of community. This groundbreaking text roots boundary setting and self care in larger visions of happier and healthier communities, all the while holding on to the complexities of individual safety and social justice.\n\nMany live music venues in Seattle, San Francisco, and New York organized shows to benefit Home Alive, where there would be music and spoken word performances. These performances were put on by a variety of people including bands, such as The Posies, and founders of Home Alive, such as Christien Storm, who performed spoken word, Valerie Agnew, who performed with her band 7 Year Bitch, and Gretta Harley, who performed with her band Maxi Bad. The first show took place at Seattle venue, RKCNDY (also known as Rock Candy). During these shows organizers and volunteers would talk about Home Alive and there would be tables with information about Home Alive, as well. In addition to being fundraisers for Home Alive, these benefit shows were also used as a \"[way] to bring the music and arts communities together around tragedy, violence, and oppression\" to \"find ways to proactively address these issues.\" While funds from the shows went towards providing self-defense classes, it did not always go directly to Home Alive. In the case of shows put on in February and March 1996, the money was put into a bank account with the intent of inspiring other organizations to provide self-defense classes, which would be supported using funds from the bank account. If no one used the money within one year, it would be \"donated to women's shelters in the communities where the shows [took] place.\"\n\nIn more current events, partial proceeds from Capitol Hill Block Party in 2008 were also donated to Home Alive as well as in 2006 and 2007. In 2008 the University of Washington put on a performance of the \"Vagina Monologues\", and the proceeds from the show went the organization.\n\nHome Alive took hold by spreading the word to the community by making posters, zines, and newsletters. They organized benefit concerts, taught classes, and wrote the curriculum for the organization. As well they compiled a CD called \"Home Alive: the Art of Self Defense\" which included 44 tracks from various artists. The CD label was produced by Sony. Co-founder Gretta Harley was instrumental in helping produce the album. The CD included songs of empowerment, self-awareness, experiences with violence. Some tracks here were meant as goodbye songs, some are poems, and others merely rants. But there's no CD or \"tribute\" like it. Violent, intense and passionate, it pulls off the trick of pulling life from death. The artists included many Seattle local bands who wanted to contribute like Nirvana, Pearl Jam, and Soundgarden. The CD compilation gained recognition worldwide. Kathleen Hanna, lead singer of the Seattle punk band Bikini Kill and kick-starter of the Riot grrrl feminist movement, also appears on the album. The track Leaving Here on the album, covered by Pearl Jam, peaked as 24th in Mainstream Rock and 31st in Modern Rock Tracks on Billboard Singles in 1996.\n\nIn 2001, Home Alive released a second compilation album titled \"Flying Side Kick\". The album features 17 tracks from various artists including The Gossip, Amy Ray and the Butchies, The Need, the Pinkos, Sanford Arms and more. Proceeds from album sales went to Home Alive.\n\nHome Alive has received support from Joan Jett through a collaboration with Mia Zapata's former bandmates, The Gits. They performed, with Joan Jett as lead singer, under the name Evil Stig with proceeds benefitting Home Alive.\n\n\"Rock, Rage & Self Defense: An Oral History on Seattle's Home Alive\", a documentary on the collective, was released in 2013. It was a documentary by Rozz Therrien and Leah Michaels, two then-undergraduates at the University of Washington. Therrien graduated with a degree in American Ethnic Studies and Michaels graduated with a Bachelor of Arts in History. Originally just seeking information for class, they came together to create an oral history about the group Home Alive and did not find a lot of information on the Internet. Both Therrien and Michaels did not have any technical background in filmmaking and self-taught each other technical skills. They fundraised $10,000 to make the film in sound editing and to pay off legal fees through the Kickstarter campaign, grants and donations. In 2014 Therrien and Michaels are on tour screening their documentary across the country, and have recently shown support for the feminist movement YesAllWomen on their website in light of the 2014 Isla Vista killings. The creators hosted screenings of the documentary to various cities across the United States, and completed their last screening of their first tour on May 27, 2014.This raised awareness across the country about self-defense and the history of Home Alive.\n\nThe nine people considered responsible for founding the organization are:\n\n\nCristien Storm (one of the co-founders of Home Alive) stated that when they began the process of their band, everyone she knew was in a band and everyone supported each other throughout the community. Young women make their music as art and a sense of feminism\n\nHome Alive was created to demonstrate a sense of political activism, not just about going to shows and creating music. The bands supported each other and demonstrate a sense of collaboration and support through the use of music.\n\nCristien Storm also stated that the combination of all the events and experience that they have in their lives contributed to Home Alive. She implemented that the murder of Mia Zapata was not the one event that shape Home Alive, which is always used as the one event that shaped Home Alive.\n\nEven though Mia Zapata's death was not the only event that contributed to the creation of Home Alive, her death did lead to a special organization of a collective community, a community which evolved into Home Alive and the mission to provide affordable self-defense training, education tools and grassroots activism.\n\n\"Most of the courses we found were quite expensive. and what they taught made no sense to us. We're musicians, artists, actors; we work in establishments late at night. They were telling us to change our lives.\" The group created their own agenda and create unconventional classes that would caters to people that have similar background as them \n\n"}
{"id": "30249648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30249648", "title": "Human trafficking in Guyana", "text": "Human trafficking in Guyana\n\nGuyana is a source country for men, women, and children subjected to trafficking in persons, specifically conditions of forced prostitution and forced labor. Guyanese trafficking victim cases have been identified in the country, as well as in other countries in the region. Identified foreign victims have come from Venezuela and Brazil. Forced prostitution occurs in brothels on the coast and around mining camps, as well as in rum shops and Chinese restaurants. The common Guyanese practice of poor, rural families sending children to live with higher income family members or acquaintances in more populated areas has the potential to evolve into forced domestic servitude. Trafficking victims in Guyana may not self-identify to authorities due to fear of retribution from trafficking offenders, fear of resettlement to abusive home situations, and lack of awareness that human trafficking is a crime. Groups particularly vulnerable to human trafficking in Guyana include Amerindian females, foreign women (such as Brazilians) in prostitution, and children. During the reporting period, the U.S. Department of Labor reported results of a project that withdrew 984 children from exploitive child labor in logging and saw-milling, fishing, hazardous farming, factory work, mining, and freight handling from 2005 to 2009.\n\nThe Government of Guyana does not fully comply with the minimum standards for the elimination of trafficking; however, it is making significant efforts to do so. Despite these efforts, the government did not initiate any new prosecutions of trafficking offenses during the reporting period, and has yet to convict or punish any trafficking offenders under its five-year-old anti-human trafficking law. Therefore, Guyana was placed on Tier 2 Watch List for the fourth consecutive yearin 2010. During the reporting period, the government and NGOs identified four victims of trafficking, two of whom prison officials proactively identified. The government provided some resources toward victim protection and local anti-trafficking groups. No suspected traffickers were charged, limiting the level of safety and protection that could be provided to victims. While the government took some tangible steps to raise awareness of human trafficking, including the establishment of focal point groups and an anti-trafficking task force, some local observers felt that the government discouraged discussions on developing effective strategies for combating this phenomenon of modern-day slavery.\n\nThe U.S. State Department's Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons placed the country in \"Tier 1\" in 2017.\n\nThe government made no discernible progress in prosecuting, convicting, and sentencing human trafficking offenders in Guyana during the reporting period. The Combating Trafficking of Persons Act of 2005 prohibits all forms of trafficking and prescribes sufficiently stringent penalties, ranging from three years to life imprisonment, and which are commensurate with those for rape. The government reported four new trafficking investigations during the reporting period, none of which led to prosecutions. The government’s four prosecutions from previous reporting periods remained ongoing, with no significant progress. To date, the government has not convicted any trafficking offenders. Progress on the prosecution of criminal cases is perpetually delayed by judicial backlogs, incorrectly filed paperwork, or the failure of key parties to appear at hearings. NGO's and one government official expressed concern that trafficking-related official complicity was a problem. It is reportedly common for defendants to bribe court officials for favorable rulings. The Ministry of Home Affairs conducted two anti-trafficking training programs, one in partnership with IOM, for 120 police, prosecutors, and investigators during the reporting period.\n\nThe government made some efforts to protect victims during the reporting period, but the number of identified victims was low, and the fact that the government charged no trafficking offenders and has yet to convict a trafficking offender undermined the effectiveness of those protections. The government, in partnership with IOM, developed a series of anti-trafficking focal point community groups around the country to help identify and refer possible trafficking victims to assistance organizations. While NGOs reported overall good working-level relations with anti-trafficking officials, some local observers expressed concern that pressure from senior officials may have prompted some lower-level officials to suppress information in order to avoid drawing attention to trafficking in Guyana. The Ministry tried to encourage identified victims to participate in prosecutions of traffickers by paying for travel costs associated with their testifying in court. In one instance, the Ministry hired a private lawyer for a victim. Nevertheless, none of the four victims identified during the reporting period elected to participate in prosecutions. In a positive step during the reporting period, Guyanese prison officials identified two foreign victims of trafficking in detention and referred them to the Human Services Ministry for assistance. The government later dropped pending charges against the two victims. The government did not provide legal alternatives to the removal of foreign victims to their home countries where they may face hardship or retribution.\n\nThe government made limited progress in the prevention of trafficking during the reporting period. The focal point groups conducted some public outreach activities in rural communities, including trafficking awareness programs targeting parents in Mahdia and Moruka, and distributing leaflets in Letherm to 440 local community leaders. The Ministry of Human Services continued to distribute IOM-funded posters, leaflets, and bumper stickers nationwide at large public gatherings throughout the year. The Ministry of Amerindian Affairs began a campaign for the issuance of birth certificates, which may have a positive effect on preventing trafficking in Guyana, though one senior official indicated that Amerindians were not as vulnerable to trafficking as other government sources have indicated. There were no campaigns directly aimed at reducing the demand for commercial sex acts during the reporting period.\n"}
{"id": "47175798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47175798", "title": "ISpot", "text": "ISpot\n\niSpot is a website developed and hosted by the Open University with funding from the Open Air Laboratories (OPAL) network with an online community intended to connect nature enthusiasts of all levels.\n\nRegistered users upload images of wildlife observations, identify species, and discuss their findings with other members. This is intended to provide opportunities to learn more about the wildlife they have observed, and also provides a database of observations which is made available for scientific analysis.\n\nThe site also provides some online identification tools.\n\nThe natural history observational skills required for accurate species identification in the field are neglected in formal education at all levels. iSpot is intended to help solve this problem by combining learning technology with crowdsourcing to connect beginners with experts.\n\nThe communities as of 2015 include the original UK and Ireland, Southern Africa, Hong Kong, Chile (Spanish language) and Global, which covers everywhere else. These communities can link to their own taxonomic lists, or use the default Catalogue of Life list.\nIn mid 2014 the global iSpot community exceeded 42000 registered participants.\n\nIn a 2015 study it was found that over 94% of observations submitted to iSpot are identified to some level, (>80% at species level), and that 92% of a representative sample of the identifications could be externally verified. Most observations were given an initial identification within an hour of posting. Identification is refined as other members review and agree with an existing identification, or propose an alternative. There is no time limit to this process.\n\nThe number of observations uploaded with photographic records exceeds 500 000 as of May 2015.\n\nObservations are classified taxonomically according to the standard chosen by the community. The taxonomic classification follows the standard principles for zoological and botanical classification, with some modifications to make it easier for the lay-person. One such modification is the allocation of taxa to groups.\n\nThe groups used on iSpot are:\n\nObservations are geographically located in decimal degrees to any precision input by the contributor, and where applicable, the position is derived from the EXIF of the lead photograph. The location details can also be input and edited manually. The location can be displayed on Google Maps. In some cases where the exact location must be hidden for conservation security, the map will display a rectangle surrounding the actual location. The location is then truncated to two decimal places, and this represents a corner of the rectangle.\n\niSpot uses a unique reputation system to motivate and reward participants and as a tool to grade identifications of observations. \nReputation points specific to one of the eight taxonomic groups used in the project are earned when an identification gets agreement from other participants, The value of the added points is proportional to the reputation for that group of the persons adding agreements. Exact values of reputation for the groups is not available to the users, but is displayed in the form of icons. Up to five icons may be displayed for any group, the first is awarded for a very small value, and the fifth for a rather large, but not publicly available value. Users with expert knowledge of taxonomy may be allocated an expert level reputation for the whole group in which their expertise is academically verifiable. For example, an expert on spiders would be considered an expert in all invertebrates. A similar but lesser reputation as \"knowledgeable\" can be allocated to users with informally acquired identification skills. The integration, if any, of earned reputation with allocated reputation is not publicly available.\n\nThis system is claimed to discriminate effectively between alternative identifications proposed for the same observation. The reputation system is shown to have improved the accuracy of the determination in 57% of cases studied. In the rest it either improved precision or revealed false precision.\n\nThe other form of reputation is proportional to the amount of contribution to the database in the form of observations and comments. These are accumulated as social points, and have no obvious value other than keeping score.\n\niSpot supports projects initiated by registered users and larger organisations, including at one time the South African National Biodiversity Institute (SANBI)\n\nThe South African National Biodiversity Institute once chose iSpot as a platform for several citizen science national biodiversity projects. Originally iSpotZA was hosted independently of the main site, with a customised user interface, but at the end of 2014 it was integrated into the main site. Some functionality changed during the integration, but it has mostly been restored. SANBI has since migrated to iNaturalist.\n\nSeaKeys is the first large collaborative marine biodiversity project run by SANBI and funded by the Foundational Biodiversity Information Program of the National Research Foundation, which includes several citizen science projects on the iSpot website, such as:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24823844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24823844", "title": "Japanese settlement in Papua New Guinea", "text": "Japanese settlement in Papua New Guinea\n\nJapanese settlement in the Territory of Papua and German New Guinea (in what now constitutes modern-day Papua New Guinea) dates back to the early 20th century when migrants from Japan established copra plantations and trading businesses in the islands, specifically Rabaul. The Japanese community remained small throughout the first half of the 20th century, and never exceeded 100. Most Japanese in Papua were businessmen and plantation managers, although a few became fishermen. Many of them married local wives and raised mixed-race Japanese-Papuan families, and during World War II most Japanese were deported to Australia where they were confined. The majority of them were repatriated to Japan after the war, although their mixed-race children were allowed to remain behind and assimilated with the local populace.\n\nThe first recorded Japanese presence in German New Guinea dates back to the beginning of the 20th century when a pearl diver, Isokichi Komine from Thursday Island in the Torres Strait Islands relocated to Rabaul in October 1901. Upon settling in Rabaul, Komine worked for its governor Albert Hahl in the plantation, trade and shipbuilding fields. Komine secured a thirty-year land lease from Hahl to build a shipyard on Rabaul in 1907, in addition to several other land concessions for copra plantation. At this time, Japanese migrants in Rabaul and the neighbouring islands joined Komine and worked for him. Other migrants settled in Port Moresby and Samarai. When World War I broke out in 1914, Japanese settlers in Rabaul experienced political tension as relations between Germany and Japan weakened. When Japan declared war against Germany in 1914, Komine aligned with the Australians, but also maintained close ties with German businessmen to safeguard his business interests. A few more Japanese migrated to New Guinea between 1914 and 1918 and established new independent enterprises that competed with Komine's, consisting mainly of copra plantations, pearl diving and trade. One Japanese businessman, Imaizumi Masao diversified into the entertainment industry and set up a picture theatre, \"New Britain Pictures\" in 1916.\n\nSome of Japanese settlers who lived in the plantations occasionally suffered from tropical ailments including malaria, although fatalities were rare. In Rabaul's Chinatown, Japanese settlers became shopkeepers. Japanese settlers generally maintained cordial relations with the natives, and a sizeable majority intermarried with the natives from the 1910s onwards, although a few settlers brought their wives and families from Japan along. In the 1920s and 1930s, Japanese immigration to New Guinea remained minimal, which was attributed to strict immigration laws that was imposed by the Australian colonial government and discouraged Japanese settlement in New Guinea. In 1932, the Japanese community formed a Japanese society at Rabaul and nominated Nagahama Taichi as its first president. The Japanese maintained contact with Japan through a regular trading ship which visited Rabaul through Pohnpei. Around the same time, children of the first Japanese settlers—usually offspring of Japanese fathers and Papuan mothers—inherited their father's business enterprises.\n\nA few Japanese left New Guinea between 1940 and 1941 in the Second World War, as Japanese reconnaissance planes were often spotted within New Guinea's skies and hinted the prospect of a Japanese invasion. A trading ship from the South Seas Trading Company offered the Japanese residents to leave New Guinea, but some thirty-three Japanese chose to stay behind, ten of whom had raised local families during the interwar years. When reports of the Attack on Pearl Harbor reached the Australian colonial administration on 8 December 1941, Japanese residents at Rabaul were immediately arrested and interned at the local jail, while the search and arrest for other Japanese residents in the neighbouring islands continued until May 1942. Indigenous spouses of Japanese residents as well as mixed-race Japanese children also faced similar fates as the other Japanese residents. When the Japanese captured Rabaul in January 1942, the Japanese residents who were interned were relocated to Sydney, although their native spouses and children were left behind. The former residents were joined by other Japanese prisoners-of-war from New Hebrides, New Caledonia and those from other parts of Australia.\n\nWhen the Japanese arrived in Rabaul in 1942, Japanese residents who were not captured welcomed the Japanese soldiers, who released the mixed-race Japanese from internment. Most of them initially held suspicions of the presence of Japanese military personnel, which was partly fuelled by the absence of their Japanese fathers who were relocated to concentration camps in Australia. During the Japanese occupation from 1942 to 1945, mixed-race Japanese children were conscripted to clerical or light menial work within the military administration, and some received a Japanese education. At least one mixed-race Japanese, Pius Kikuchi, described the treatment of the Japanese military administration to the mixed-race children as gentle but discipline-oriented in nature. In other areas of Papua New Guinea which remained under Australian control, families of Japanese residents generally received harsh treatment from the Australian military. \"Comfort women\" formed another major component of the local Japanese community during the Japanese occupation years, which consisted of up to 3,000 Japanese and Korean women who were stationed in Rabaul's Chinatown which was frequented by Japanese military personnel. One Australian Captain, David Hutchinson-Smith, also mentioned of some mixed-race, young Japanese-Papuan girls who were also conscripted as comfort women.\n\nAfter the Japanese surrender in 1945, former Japanese residents of Rabaul were automatically placed on the repatriation to Japan, and a debate ensued on the fate of ten former Japanese residents who had raised local families. Among the local populace, there was considerable anti-Japanese sentiment and graves of the first Japanese settlers were exhumed along with those of the Japanese soldiers and thrown into the sea. One Japanese resident was released from detention immediately after reaching Samarai. Another former resident, Izumi died of illness during internment and eight others were held under military custody until 1949 before they were deported to Japan. All eight former residents returned to Japan and realised that their assets in Japan and New Guinea were confiscated, although a few were able to re-integrate into the mainstream Japanese society. Some former residents maintained links with their native wives for a few years before remarrying in Japan, but none of them returned to Papua New Guinea throughout their remaining lives. The mixed-race Japanese assimilated with the local populace within a few years after the war and identified themselves as Papuans.\n\nA 1921 census counted 87 individuals, and the number of Japanese residents in New Guinea witnessed a decline until here were only 36 in 1940. Approximately one third were businessmen living in Rabaul, while the remainder were plantation managers and fishermen who lived mainly in Manus, New Ireland and Bougainville. In particular, a census done in 1933 counted 29 second-generation Japanese residents – these comprised mixed-race Japanese Papuans as well as a few full-blooded Japanese, and nine long-term Japanese residents in Papua. First-generation Japanese residents were mostly adherents of Shinto and Buddhism, although they generally avoided celebrating religious or cultural festivals in public. No Japanese Shinto or Buddhist shrines were built during the interwar years, and Japanese residents publicly celebrated Australian holidays to avoid rousing suspicion from the Australian authorities. Upon marrying a native wife, Japanese residents conduct their wedding ceremonies in Christian churches, and often send their children to Catholic Mission schools. Most mixed-race children were taught to speak Papuan languages and English from infancy, and had little knowledge of the Japanese language and customs. During the Japanese occupation, mixed-race Japanese were taught in the Japanese language as well as its cultural customs.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35781150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35781150", "title": "Kami language (Tanzania)", "text": "Kami language (Tanzania)\n\nKami is a Bantu language of the Morogoro region of Tanzania.\n"}
{"id": "31573539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31573539", "title": "List of Indonesian prisoners and detainees", "text": "List of Indonesian prisoners and detainees\n\nThis is a list of Indonesian prisoners and detainees:\n"}
{"id": "37160953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37160953", "title": "List of United States servicemembers and civilians missing in action during the Vietnam War (1972–75)", "text": "List of United States servicemembers and civilians missing in action during the Vietnam War (1972–75)\n\nThis article is a list of US MIAs of the Vietnam War in the period from 1972–75. No servicemembers or civilians were lost in 1974. In 1973, the United States listed 2,646 Americans as unaccounted for from the entire Vietnam War. By August 2017, 1604 Americans remained unaccounted for, of which 1026 were classified as further pursuit, 488 as no further pursuit and 90 as deferred.\n\n"}
{"id": "57756837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57756837", "title": "List of awards and nominations received by Bebe Rexha", "text": "List of awards and nominations received by Bebe Rexha\n\nBebe Rexha is an American singer, songwriter, and record producer. Bebe was selected as the fifth among Top 10 Stars to Watch Out For in 2018 at Watchmojo.com. She has won 18 awards from 47 nominations.\n\nThe American Music Awards (AMAs) is an annual music awards show created by Dick Clark in 1973.\n!scope=\"row\" rowspan=\"2\" | 2018\n\nThe ASCAP Awards honor the songwriters and publishers of the American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers' most performed songs. Rexha has received two ASCAP London Music Awards and one ASCAP Pop Music Award.\n\n!scope=\"row\" rowspan=\"2\" |2017\n\n!scope=\"row\"|2017\nThe \"Billboard\" Music Awards are held to honor artists for commercial performance in the U.S., based on record charts published by \"Billboard\". The awards are based on sales data by Nielsen SoundScan and radio information by Nielsen Broadcast Data Systems. The award ceremony was held from 1990 to 2007, until its reintroduction in 2011. Before and after that time span, winners have been announced by \"Billboard\", both in the press and as part of their year-end issue. Rexha has received two nominations.\n!scope=\"row\" |2016\n!scope=\"row\" |2018\nThe BMI Awards are held annually by Broadcast Music, Inc. to award songwriters in various genres, including country and pop. Rexha has received three BMI London Awards, two BMI Pop Award, and two BMI R&B/Hip-Hop Awards. \n\n!scope=\"row\" rowspan=\"2\" |2016\n!scope=\"row\" rowspan=\"1\" |2017\n!scope=\"row\"|2016\n!scope=\"row\"|2018\n!scope=\"row\" rowspan=\"2\" |2017\n\nEstablished in 1957, the Bravo Otto is a German accolade presented by the \"Bravo\" magazine. Rexha has received one nomination.\n!\n!scope=\"row\"|2016\nBreakTudo Awards (commonly abbreviated as a BTDAs) is a Brazilian award that takes place every year in Brazil. The awards honor the year's biggest achievements in music, film, television, Brazilian internet and more, voting takes place over the internet. \n!\n\nFirst awarded in 1967, the Country Music Association Awards are awarded to country music artists. \n!\n!scope=\"row\" rowspan=\"2\" | 2018\n\nThe CMT Music Awards is an annual ceremony held in Nashville, Tennessee, dedicated exclusively to honor country music videos. It was established in 1967, and had several names throughout the years. In 2002, it was moved to Country Music Television and, in 2005, was renamed CMT Music Awards. Rexha has received two nominations.\n!scope=\"row\" rowspan=\"2\" |2018\n\nThe Edison Award is annual Dutch music prize, awarded for outstanding achievements in the music industry. It is one of the oldest music awards in the world, having been presented since 1960. Rexha has won an award. \n!scope=\"row\"|2017\nThe International Dance Music Awards, established in 1985, are an annual awards show honoring dance and electronic artists. It is a part of the Winter Music Conference, a weeklong electronic music event held annually. Rexha has received two nominations and won one award.\n!scope=\"row\" rowspan=\"2\" |2016\nThe iHeartRadio Much Music Video Awards are annual awards presented by the Canadian television channel Much to honour the year's best music videos. Rexha has won 1 award from 2 nominations.\n\nThe IHeartRadio Music Awards is an international music awards show founded by IHeartRadio in 2014. Rexha has received two nominations.\n!scope=\"row\" |2016\n!scope=\"row\" |2018\n\nThe MTV Europe Music Awards was established in 1994 by MTV Europe to award the music videos from European and international artists. Rexha has received four nominations.\n!scope=\"row\" |2015\n!scope=\"row\" rowspan=\"3\" |2016\n!scope=\"row\" rowspan=\"1\" |2018\nThe MTV Video Music Awards was established in 1984 by MTV to award the music videos of the year. Rexha has received one nominations.\n!scope=\"row\" |2018\nThe NRJ Music Awards was established in 2000 by the French radio station NRJ to honor the best in the French and worldwide music industry. Rexha has received one nomination.\n!scope=\"row\"|2015\nFirst held in 2002, the Radio Disney Music Awards is an annual awards, which is operated and governed by Radio Disney. Rexha has received 2 awards from 3 nominations.\n!scope=\"row\" rowspan=\"3\" |2018\n\nThe Songwriters Hall of Fame was founded in 1969 to honor \"those whose work represents a spectrum of the most beloved songs from the world's popular music songbook\". Rexha has been honoured once.\n!scope=\"row\"|2012\nThe Teen Choice Awards are presented annually by Fox Broadcasting Company. Rexha has received 3 nominations winning one.\n!scope=\"row\"|2015\n!scope=\"row\" rowspan=\"2\" |2018\n\nBased on designer Victoria's Secrets \"The 2017 #WhatIsSexy List\", Bebe Rexha was recognized as the Sexiest Rising Songstress among women.\n!scope=\"row\"|2017\nThe WDM Radio Awards is an award ceremony created in 2017 by Los 40 under their \"World Dance Music\" brand, billed as \"the first radio awards for electronic music\". Rexha has received two nominations.\n!scope=\"row\"|2017\n!scope=\"row\"|2018\n"}
{"id": "30820698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30820698", "title": "List of tourism journals", "text": "List of tourism journals\n\nThis is a list of tourism journals: peer-reviewed academic journals covering the study of all aspects of tourism.\n\n"}
{"id": "12405746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12405746", "title": "Marriage in Israel", "text": "Marriage in Israel\n\nMarriages in Israel can be performed only under the auspices of the religious community to which couples belong, and no religious intermarriages can be performed legally in Israel. Matrimonial law is based on the Millet or confessional community system employed in the Ottoman Empire, which was not modified during the British Mandate and remains in force in the State of Israel.\n\nIn addition to the respective faiths of Jewish, Muslim and Druze communities in Israel, Israel recognizes ten distinct denominations of Christianity. Marriages in each community are under the jurisdiction of their own religious authorities. The religious authority for Jewish marriages performed in Israel is the Chief Rabbinate of Israel and the Rabbinical courts. The Israeli Interior Ministry registers marriages on presentation of proper documentation. Israel’s religious authorities — the only entities authorized to perform weddings in Israel — are prohibited from marrying couples unless both partners share the same religion. Therefore, interfaith couples can be legally married in Israel only if one of the partners converts to the religion of the other. However, civil, interfaith and same-sex marriages entered into abroad are recognized by the state.\n\nIt is illegal under \"Penal Law Amendment (Bigamy) Law\", 5719 (1959), to marry in Israel while already married. This applies to members of each confessional community, including the Jewish and Muslim, even though it is allowed in the Torah and the Quran. Despite its criminalization under Israeli law, polygyny is nevertheless still practiced by Israel’s Muslim Bedouin community, where about 25% of men are believed to have more than one wife, and it is also recognized for existing marriages of immigrant Jews from diaspora communities where polygyny is widely practiced.\n\nIn 2013, the minimum marriage age in Israel was raised to 18, from a previous age of 17. Previously, the marriage age was 18 for males and 17 for females, before they were equalised at 17 years.\n\nUnder the Ottoman Empire all matters of a religious nature and personal status, which included marriage, were within the jurisdiction of Muslim courts and the courts of other recognized religions, called confessional communities, under a system known as Millet. Capitulation Treaties also permitted the registration of marriages and divorces in the British, German, American and other consulates during the Ottoman period. Jewish religious matters were handled by the Hakham Bashi and the Jewish courts.\n\nArticle 14 of the British Mandate of Palestine required the mandatory administration to establish a commission to study, define, and determine the rights and claims relating to the different religious communities in Palestine. Article 15 required the mandatory administration to see to it that complete freedom of conscience and the free exercise of all forms of worship were permitted. Those mandates were never enforced or put into effect. The High Commissioner established the Orthodox Rabbinate and retained a modified Millet system that recognized only eleven religious communities: Muslims, Jews and nine Christian denominations (none of which were Christian Protestant churches). All those who were not members of these recognised communities were excluded from the Millet arrangement, and \"marriages\" conducted in Palestine outside these communities were not recognised. Consular marriages remained customary during the British Mandate and civil divorces granted in other countries were registered and recognized by the mandatory administration. Provision was made for the registration of marriages, but not for the manner in which marriages would be conducted.\n\nIt has been argued that the Ottomans and the British did not contemplate a situation in which a person who belonged to one of the recognized communities would want to be married in a non-religious ceremony within that community. It has been claimed that there was no opposition to religious marriages when the religious courts were given authority in these matters. However, no provision was made for marriages between people who were not both members of the same, recognised, community.\n\nIt is a criminal offense for Jews in Israel to marry in weddings performed outside the state’s religious authority, and doing so can result in a jail sentence of up to two years. Hiddush ranked Israel as the only Western democracy that is on a par with Iran, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Saudi Arabia and other Islamic states in relation to freedom of marriage. Hiddush also found that almost two thirds of Israeli Jews do not know that Israeli Jewish couples who marry in civil ceremonies overseas can, according to Israeli law, only get divorced through the Israeli Orthodox Rabbinical Courts.\n\nIn 1947 David Ben-Gurion and the religious parties reached an agreement that included an understanding that matters of personal status in Israel, which included marriage, would continue to be determined by religious authorities. This arrangement has been termed the status quo agreement and has been maintained despite numerous changes of government since.\n\nUnder the arrangement, the Mandate period confessional system would continue, with membership in the Jewish community being on the basis of membership of a body called \"Knesset Israel\", which was a voluntary organization that managed registrations of people who were related to it—that is, those recognised as Jews. There does not seem to have been any dispute at the time of who was a Jew. Jews could choose not to register with \"Knesset Israel\". Members of Agudath Israel, for example, chose not to register.\n\nBefore 1953 \"Knesset Israel\" courts had authority over Jews registered with it. However, in 1953 rabbinical courts were established with jurisdiction over matters of marriage and divorces of \"all\" Jews in Israel, nationals and residents. (section 1) It was also provided that marriages and divorces of Jews in Israel would be conducted according to the law of the Torah. (section 2)\n\nSince 1953 the rabbinate has only approved marriages between Jews in Israel conducted in accordance with the Orthodox interpretation of \"halakha\". The changes were applauded by religious Jews, but have been criticized by secular Jews since they were instituted. The only exception to these arrangements was that marriages entered into abroad were recognised as valid in Israel.\n\nJewish marriage and divorce in Israel is under the jurisdiction of the Chief Rabbinate of Israel, which defines a person's Jewish status strictly according to \"halakha\". The rabbinate's standards and interpretations in these matters are generally used by the Israeli Interior Ministry in registering marriages and divorces.\n\n\"Halakhic\" and biblical restrictions on marriage are applied in Israel. So, for example, a kohen may not marry a convert to Judaism. Similarly, children of adulterous and incestuous unions are restricted as to whom they can marry.\nUp to 1999, any marriage council had the option to send a person to a (Hebrew). A governing document that defined rules of marriage had been finally concluded in 2001. Contrary to guidelines, some councils didn't fulfill the guideline; several petitions had been sent to the high court. A research showed that 93.5% of people sent to Judaism test had been from the former Soviet Union and 83% of them succeeded and 10% left the process. In 2010 a final ruling defined that all immigrants after 1990 must go over a Judaism test.\n\nHowever, Israel does recognise civil or religious marriages entered into outside Israel. It is usual for couples who may not or choose not to marry in Israel to travel overseas to marry. One out of every ten Israelis who married in 2000 did so abroad mainly because they could not marry in Israel. 2,230 couples who married abroad consisted of two Israeli partners, and another 3,660 couples consisted of an Israeli and a non-Israeli partner. Orthodox rabbi, Chuck Davidson, who is not recognised as a celebrant by the Chief Rabbis, has said \"An Elvis impersonator in Las Vegas has more meaning to the state than me, an Orthodox rabbi\". Davidson has challenged the law by being willing to conduct illegal weddings in Israel.\n\nThe issue of civil marriages is a major issue for secular Jews and members of non-Orthodox streams of Judaism, who are required to meet the Orthodox standards to be able to marry in Israel. There is a debate over whether civil marriages would divide the Jewish people in Israel by increasing interfaith marriages and marriages that do not meet \"halakhic\" requirements, and over the character of the Jewish state.\n\nMost secular Jews view their Jewish identity as a matter of culture, heritage, nationality, or ethnicity. Ancestral aspects can be explained by the many Jews who view themselves as atheist and are defined by matrilineal descent or a Cohen (Kohen) or Levi, which is connected by ancestry. The question of \"who is a Jew\" is a question that is under debate. However, matters concerning marriage in Israel are controlled by strict Orthodox standards and disputed issues are resolved by the Israeli Chief Rabbinate. Issues related to ancestral or ethnic Jews are solved by the Israeli Chief Rabbinate.\n\nOrthodox \"halachic\" rules apply to converts who want to marry in Israel. Under these rules, a conversion to Judaism must strictly follow \"halachic\" standards to be recognised as valid. The rabbinate even scrutinizes Orthodox conversions, with some who have converted by orthodox authorities outside of Israel not being permitted to marry in Israel. For example, a man who converted to Orthodox Judaism in the USA was denied an official marriage in Israel on the grounds that his conversion may not have been legitimate and that the Orthodox rabbi who converted him in Louisiana is not recognized in Israel.\n\nIn the rabbinical courts, which operate according to \"halakha\" (Torah law), a Jewish woman is allowed to initiate divorce proceedings, but her husband must give his consent to make the divorce final. If the husband disappears or refuses to grant the divorce, the wife is considered an \"agunah\" (lit. \"chained woman\") and may not remarry or give birth to \"halakhically\" legitimate children. Rabbinical tribunals may, and sometimes do, rebuke a husband who refused divorce, but still do not grant a divorce without his consent.\n\nIf a person's Jewish status is in doubt, then formal conversion is required in order to be allowed to marry according to the Orthodox rules, which govern all marriages between Jews in Israel.\n\nAccording to an editorial in \"The New York Jewish Week:\"\nAs a result, non-Orthodox Jewish couples are forced to submit to an Orthodox marriage ceremony with an Orthodox rabbi and are compelled to attend classes on family purity. No Israeli may marry outside his faith community. Hundreds of thousands of Israeli citizens from the former Soviet Union who are not Jewish or whose Jewish ancestry is in doubt are unable to marry at all inside Israel.\n\nA person who was born as the result of an adulterous or incestuous union is limited in whom he or she can marry. The most common case of this is a person who was married halachically but not divorced halachically. In October 2013, however, the Tzohar law was passed and effectivity ended the monopoly which community Orthodox Rabbis had over weddings and allowed for people of Jewish faith to pick a rabbi of their choosing outside the area which they live, though it still does not account for people who converted to either Conservative and Reform Judaism .\n\nIn 2015 Tzohar (a religious Zionist rabbinic organization in Israel), along with the Israeli Bar Association, introduced a prenuptial agreement meant to help ensure divorcing wives will receive a get; under the agreement the husband commits to paying a high sum of money daily to his spouse in the event of a separation.\n\nMost Muslims in Israel are Sunni Arabs.\n\nIn 1922, the British created the Supreme Muslim Council as the Muslim religious authority in the British Mandate of Palestine and appointed Amin al-Husayni (1895–1974) as the Grand Mufti of Jerusalem. The council was abolished in 1948 by Jordan, but was reconstituted in Jerusalem after the Six-Day War in 1967.\n\nAs the law of the land in relation to marriages has formally remained the Islamic law prior to the establishment of the State of Israel, it was not necessary for the Muslim community to formally \"accept\" these arrangements.\n\nMuslim marriages are conducted in accordance with Islamic law and customs. Inter-faith marriages are permitted between Muslim males and Christian or Jewish females, but the opposite is not currently allowed for female Muslims.\n\nSharia courts deal with personal status issues in the Muslim community.\n\nA Muslim woman may petition for and receive a divorce through the Sharia courts without her husband's consent under certain conditions, and a marriage contract may provide for other circumstances in which she may obtain a divorce without her husband's consent. A Muslim man may divorce his wife without her consent and without petitioning the court.\n\nThere are nine officially recognised churches for the purposes of marriage. These are the Greek Orthodox, Roman Catholic (Latin rite), Armenian Apostolic, Armenian Catholic, Syriac Catholic, Chaldean (Uniate), Melkite Greek Catholic, Maronite and Syriac Orthodox churches.\n\nIn 1970, the Anglican Church was included with these recognised churches. At the same time, special arrangements for the recognition of marriage were made between the State of Israel and the Lutheran, Ethiopian Orthodox, and Coptic Orthodox churches.\n\nChristians may seek official separations or divorces, depending on the denomination, through ecclesiastical courts.\n\nThe Druze community was recognized as a separate community from the Muslim community in 1957. In 1962, separate Druze courts were established to deal with personal status issues in the Druze community, alongside the rabbinical courts, the Sharia courts, and the courts of the Christian communities.\n\nThe status quo agreement creates difficulties for people who, for whatever reason, cannot marry or divorce within the system, or who do not want to marry in a religious ceremony. The issue became acute when large numbers of immigrants (olim) from the former Soviet Union arrived in Israel in the 1990s. Although they became Israeli citizens under the Law of Return, some of the olim were not considered Jewish by the rabbinate, which requires proof of maternal Jewish descent.\n\nIn 1951 the Supreme Court of Israel ruled that marriages entered into outside Israel conducted by a rabbinical court in accordance with \"halakha\" must be recognized in Israel. The case before the court involved a couple who were not residents or citizens of Israel at the time of their marriage. However, commentators have noted that the case did not deal with a situation where one or both of the couple were residents or citizens of Israel, nor with a civil marriage abroad.\n\nThe issue of recognition of civil marriages is of special significance in Judaism because Orthodox Judaism has various prohibitions involving marriages. This includes, but is not limited to, restrictions on marriages involving a mamzer and by kohenim. Such marriages will not be sanctioned by religious authorities and as there is no form of civil marriage, cannot be formally entered into in Israel. The couples in these prohibited marriage situations sometimes marry overseas, mostly in Cyprus, which is near Israel.\n\nIn 1962, the Supreme Court determined that the Ministry of the Interior must register as married couples who married in a civil marriage abroad, even if either or both of the couple were citizens of Israel. This judgment was interpreted as a minor technical issue, as the act of registration was said to be for statistical purposes only, and not a recognition of the personal status of the couple, as registration does not determine the validity of the marriage.\n\nIn 2006, the Supreme Court voted 6-1 to recognize same-sex marriages performed in other countries.\n\nIn a judgment given in November 2006 retired President of the Supreme Court Aharon Barak ruled that the recognition of a civil marriage entered into abroad extended to its validity and recognition as a marriage for the purpose of Israeli law, overruling a rabbinical court, which had determined that a religious court had the authority to decide the validity or otherwise of a civil marriage entered into abroad.\n\nIn 2010, Israel passed the \"Civil Union Law for Citizens with no Religious Affiliation, 2010\", allowing a couple to form a civil union in Israel if they are both registered as officially not belonging to any religion.\n\nIn 2017, the Florida Third District Court of Appeal held that although Israel recognizes \"reputed spouses\" as a legal union, the union is not a marriage under Israeli law, and therefore Florida law does not recognize the relationship as a marriage.\n\nThe 1973 Spouses' Property Relations Act officially defined what assets would be divided after divorce or if one of the spouses dies, unless they both agreed beforehand. An amendment was later added to the 1973 law in 2008 to ensure that property would be divided equally among both spouses before the divorce rather than after. \n\nUnder the nation's Capacity and Guardianship Law, child custody was almost always granted to the mother following a divorce. In 2012, however, an amendment was added to the law to ensure that both the father and any child of the divorced parents who is at least six years of age would share equal rights as the mother as state-appointed social workers determine child custody. The age of the child with equal privilege was later lowered to two in 2013. \n\nThe divorce process in Israel for married people of Jewish faith is administered by the Get Procedure and finalized by Rabbinical Judges. On November 15, 2016, the Get Procedure was officially regulated after State Attorney Shai Nitzan required criminal prosecution of men or women who refuse to grant or accept a divorce after being instructed to do so by a rabbinical court, although some said it would not have a dramatic impact since criminal proceedings will only be possible if the rabbinical court issues a rarely used ruling obligating a spouse to agree to the divorce.\n\nIn 2018 the Knesset passed a law, slated to remain in effect for three years, allowing Israel’s rabbinical courts to handle certain cases of Jewish women wishing to divorce their Jewish husbands, even if neither the wife nor the husband is an Israeli citizen.\n\nSince the establishment of the rabbinical courts, the status quo agreement has been strongly supported by the religious community, but criticised by others. The main argument of the supporters of the system is that a change of the status quo agreement will divide the Jewish people in Israel between those who marry according to Jewish religious standards and those who marry in a civil marriage. Civil marriages would not be registered or scrutinized by the rabbinate. In certain circumstances, such as when a woman who was previously married according to Jewish religious standards entered into a civil marriage without obtaining a religiously-valid divorce decree (get), the children produced by civil marriages could be considered illegitimate or mamzerim, which would prohibit them from marrying any Jew who was not also a mamzer. Opponents of the status quo agreement consider the system to be contrary to people's civil rights.\n\nIn 2011, roughly 9,000 couples registered with the Central Bureau of Statistics that they were married overseas.\n\nAlthough most of the debate relating to civil marriage in Israel is conducted in the Jewish community, the issue has the same implications for all other recognised religious communities in Israel.\n\nSupporters of the status quo agreement argue that:\n\n\nSupporters of civil marriage in Israel argue that the status quo agreement violates the rights of Israeli citizens by:\n\n\nSupporters of civil marriage also argue that the status quo agreement is in breach of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, Article 16, which states that \"men and women of full age, without any limitation due to race, nationality or religion, have the right to marry and to found a family.\"\n\nAfter the Rabbi Dov Haiyun was arrested for performing an unsanctioned wedding, the director of Israeli civil rights organization \"Israel Hofsheet\" (Be Free Israel) called for the \"immediate legislation of a civil marriage law\".\n\nAt the times when people petitioned the Supreme Court of Israel, trying to convince the Supreme Court to form an authority of civil marriages, the Supreme Court refused to do so, declaring that this was the responsibility of the Knesset. In cases when people requested to proclaim themselves as being \"non-religious\", in order that the court would be able to recognize his or her marriage according to an acceptable civil judgment, the court rejected their assertion. The only time in which the Court determined that the Ministry had to recognize a marriage between a Cohen and a divorcee was when it was based on the religious law that determines that those are forbidden marriages from the start but allowable post factum. \n\nOver time a number of alternative methods have been used by couples who wished to marry without a religious ceremony, or who were unable to marry in Israel.\n\nOne method is to marry outside Israel; nearby Cyprus became the most convenient venue for many Israelis. Paraguay, which allows marriage without the presence of the couple to be arranged by the Paraguayan consulate in Tel Aviv, is another jurisdiction used.\n\nAnother approach is to resort to what is called a \"common-law marriage\". A common-law marriage entitles the partners to most of the rights of a formally married couple in relation to inheritance, pensions and the landlord and tenant matters. However, the status of common-law marriage is not equal to that of formal marriage in many fields. For example, exemption from military service for a married woman only applies to a formally married woman.\n\nJurist Frances Radi supports these attempts to \"bypass the law in legal ways\", but points out that the necessity of an Israeli to resort to the use of a foreign state in order to get married diminishes the value of the alternative ways to get married. In her view, \"the existence of those minor alternatives only points out the lack of the respect to secular values that the Israeli judiciary demonstrates\".\n\nOthers such as Rabbi Chuck Davidson conduct religious weddings outside of the framework of the state. Under Israeli law Davidson can be jailed for up to two years, although this law has not yet been tested by the courts.\n\nIn the late 1960s the Independent Liberal party attempted to enable civil marriages for couples who could not marry in rabbinical courts; however, this attempt caused a governmental crisis.\n\nThe left-wing Meretz party, and its historical component parties Mapam, Ratz and Shinui have been trying to allow civil marriages in Israel for a long time, but without success. At the start of the 21st century several rabbis (including the chief Sephardi rabbi of Israel, Shlomo Amar) said that the great alienation that this situation creates does not serve the religious interest. As part of the coalition agreement for Ariel Sharon's second government, the Shinui party demanded that a legal solution be found for those who could not marry within Israel. A committee formed to find a solution for this problem came up with the \"coupling arrangement\" solution (ברית הזוגיות). This committee, which was led by Israeli parliament members Roni Bar-On, Yuri Stern, Nisan Slomianski and Roni Brizon, and represented parties from the wide political religious spectrum from the Shinui party to the Mafdal party, eventually submitted a bill by which there would be a separate status recognised for people who came in the pact of duality, which would not be considered as \"marriage\" but would be as similar as possible to the marriage institution. The bill never reached further legislation procedures.\n\nIn July 2007 Israel's Justice Minister Daniel Friedmann and the chief rabbi of Israel Shlomo Amar reached an agreement on a limited bill for civil marriages in Israel, which would apply only to the marriage of Israelis who do not belong to any recognized religious community. Such a bill was introduced by Yisrael Beiteinu in 2009, eventually passing the Knesset in May 2010; this bill, however, only grants \"couplehood union\" status to couples who both declared non-religious status.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36489593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36489593", "title": "Mombasa Republican Council", "text": "Mombasa Republican Council\n\nMombasa Republican Council (MRC) is a separatist organisation based in the coastal city of Mombasa, Kenya. The group claims areas around Mombasa and the coastal area. It has both Muslim and Christian supporters. The leader of the group is Omar Mwamnuadzi and he was charged in 2014 along with 11 other members. However, the group denies claims by government officials that it has forged links with Somalia's militant Islamist group al-Shabaab.\n\nThe Mombasa Republican Council was formed in 1999 to address perceived political and economic discrimination against the people of the coast province. The group traces its secession claims to the 1895 and 1963 agreements transferring the ten-mile strip of land along the coast to the Government of Kenya from Zanzibar. Some critics characterize these British agreements as a form of bribery designed to facilitate colonization of the interior. The group contests these agreements as invalid, because they were enacted without the consent of coastal stakeholders, and says the state of Kenya has failed to honor the provisions designed to protect the coastal population.\n\nThe Mombasa Republican Council was dormant until 2008, when it first raised claims that Mombasa should secede from Kenya to become an independent state. They argued that secession would liberate the people of the coast province from marginalization by the successive governments in Kenya. The slogan they are using is \"Pwani Si Kenya\" (\"The Coast is not Kenya\"). In response, the government declared the group to be an illegal organization, together with another 33 groups.\n\nMombasa Republican Council contested the government's decision in the court. The high court of Mombasa lifted the ban and ruled that claiming the group was illegal was unconstitutional.\n"}
{"id": "34358706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34358706", "title": "Public opinion on nuclear issues", "text": "Public opinion on nuclear issues\n\nPublic opinion on nuclear issues is the aggregate of attitudes or beliefs held by the adult population concerning nuclear power, nuclear weapons and uranium mining.\n\nSurveys about nuclear power use have been conducted internationally for four decades. Surveys originally examined public opinion on building new nuclear power plants. In the U.S., support has declined over the period from the mid-1970s through 2000. The Japanese were more supportive of nuclear power expansion during this time.\n\nIn 2005, the International Atomic Energy Agency presented the results of a series of public opinion surveys in the \"Global Public Opinion on Nuclear Issues\" report. Majorities of respondents in 14 of the 18 countries surveyed believe that the risk of terrorist acts involving radioactive materials at nuclear facilities is high, because of insufficient protection. While majorities of citizens generally support the continued use of existing nuclear power reactors, most people do not favour the building of new nuclear plants, and 25% of respondents feel that all nuclear power plants should be closed down. Stressing the climate change benefits of nuclear energy positively influences 10% of people to be more supportive of expanding the role of nuclear power in the world, but there is still a general reluctance to support the building of more nuclear power plants.\n\nA poll in the European Union for Feb-Mar 2005 showed 37% in favour of nuclear energy and 55% opposed, leaving 8% undecided. The same agency ran another poll in Oct-Nov 2006 that showed 14% favoured building new nuclear plants, 34% favoured maintaining the same number, and 39% favoured reducing the number of operating plants, leaving 13% undecided. This poll showed that the approval of nuclear power rose with the education level of respondents and was lower for women.\n\nIn the United States, the Nuclear Energy Institute has run polls since the 1980s. A poll in conducted March 30 to April 1, 2007 chose solar as the most likely largest source for electricity in the US in 15 years (27% of those polled) followed by nuclear, 24% and coal, 14%. Those who were favourable of nuclear being used dropped to 63% from a historic high of 70% in 2005 and 68% in September, 2006.\n\nA CBS News/New York Times poll in 2007 showed that a majority of Americans would not like to have a nuclear plant built in their community, although an increasing percentage would like to see more nuclear power.\n\nThe two fuel sources that attracted the highest levels of support in the \"2007 MIT Energy Survey\" are solar power and wind power. Outright majorities would choose to “increase a lot” use of these two fuels, and better than three out of four Americans would like to increase these fuels in the U. S. energy portfolio. Fourteen per cent of respondents would like to see nuclear power \"increase a lot\".\n\nA September 2007 survey conducted by the Center for International and Security Studies at the University of Maryland showed that:\n\n63 percent of Russians favor eliminating all nuclear weapons, 59 percent support removing all nuclear weapons from high alert, and 53 percent support cutting the Russian and U.S. nuclear arsenals to 400 nuclear weapons each. In the United States, 73 percent of the public favors eliminating all nuclear weapons, 64 percent support removing all nuclear weapons from high alert, and 59 percent support reducing Russian and U.S. nuclear arsenals to 400 weapons each. Eighty percent of Russians and Americans want their countries to participate in the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty.\nAccording to a 2010 Soka Gakkai International survey of youth attitudes in Japan, Korea, the Philippines, New Zealand and the USA, 67.3% reject the use of nuclear weapons under any circumstances. Of the respondents 59.1% said that they would feel safer if nuclear weapons no longer existed in the world. Identified as most needed measures toward nuclear abolition were political and diplomatic negotiations (59.9%), peace education (56.3%) and strengthened measures within the UN framework (53.7%). While 37.4% said that nuclear abolition is possible, 40.7% said that nuclear arms reduction not abolition is possible.\n\nWhat had been growing acceptance of nuclear power in the United States was eroded sharply following the 2011 Japanese nuclear accidents, with support for building nuclear power plants in the U.S. dropping slightly lower than it was immediately after the Three Mile Island accident in 1979, according to a CBS News poll. Only 43 percent of those polled after the Fukushima nuclear emergency said they would approve building new power plants in the United States.\n\nA 2011 poll suggests that skepticism over nuclear power is growing in Sweden following Japan's nuclear crisis. 36 percent of respondents want to phase-out nuclear power, up from 15 percent in a similar survey two years ago.\n\nIn June 2011, both Ipsos Mori and the Japanese Asahi Shimbun newspaper found drops in support for nuclear power technology in most countries, with support continuing in a number including the US. The Ipsos Mori poll found that nuclear had the lowest support of any established technology for generating electricity, with 38%. Coal was at 48% support while solar energy, wind power and hydro all found favour with more than 90% of those surveyed.\n\nThere is little support across the world for building new nuclear reactors, a 2011 poll for the BBC indicates. The global research agency GlobeScan, commissioned by BBC News, polled 23,231 people in 23 countries from July to September 2011, several months after the Fukushima nuclear disaster. In countries with existing nuclear programmes, people are significantly more opposed than they were in 2005, with only the UK and US bucking the trend. Most believe that boosting energy efficiency and renewable energy can meet their needs.\n\nJust 22% agreed that \"nuclear power is relatively safe and an important source of electricity, and we should build more nuclear power plants\". In contrast, 71% thought their country \"could almost entirely replace coal and nuclear energy within 20 years by becoming highly energy-efficient and focusing on generating energy from the Sun and wind\". Globally, 39% want to continue using existing reactors without building new ones, while 30% would like to shut everything down now.\nAccording to a 2012 Pew Research Center poll, 44 percent of Americans favor and 49 percent oppose the promotion of increased use of nuclear power, while 69 percent favor increasing federal funding for research on wind power, solar power, and hydrogen energy technology. Even only one year after the Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster, Gallup found that 57 percent of American still favored nuclear energy. \n\nIn 2013, Soka Gakkai International released the results of its international survey in which 91.2% of respondents believe that nuclear arms are inhumane and 80.6% favor a comprehensive treaty banning all weapons of mass destruction. The 2,840 survey respondents were men and women of ages 15 to 45 from Australia, Brazil, Britain, Italy, Japan, Malaysia, Mexico, South Korea and the USA—the official and unofficial nuclear weapon states, states under the US nuclear umbrella and states in nuclear-weapons-free zones (NWFZs).\n\nA Pew Research Survey conducted in 2015 found that Americans have shifted their view on the use of the atomic bomb to defeat the Japanese. \n56% believe that the use of nuclear weapons was justified, with 34% saying it was not. Immediately after the bombings that figure was at 84% in favor of the bombing, according to a Gallup poll.\n\nA 2016 Gallup poll of the American public revealed that public support for nuclear energy in the United States was at a record low of 44%, with the majority (54%) of respondents saying that they oppose nuclear energy. This was the first time that public opposition to nuclear power in the United States had achieved a majority in the 23 years of Gallup polling on the subject.\n\nAccording to \"The Guardian\", \"A September poll by ReachTel found 73% of Australians support the ban on nuclear weapons and believe nuclear weapons pose a threat to global security.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "9895684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9895684", "title": "Rama people", "text": "Rama people\n\nThe Rama are an indigenous people living on the eastern coast of Nicaragua. Since the start of European colonization, the Rama population has declined as a result of disease, conflict, and loss of territory. In recent years, however, the Rama population has increased to around 2,000 individuals. A majority of the population lives on the island of Rama Cay, which is located in the Bluefields Lagoon. Additional small Rama communities are dispersed on the mainland from Bluefields to Greytown. The Rama are one of three main indigenous groups on Nicaragua’s Caribbean coast.\n\nDue to centuries of colonial suppression the Rama people’s native language is facing extinction. Language revitalization efforts have been made in recent years and have achieved early success in Rama communities. Rama territory is currently being threatened by the Nicaraguan government and foreign investors, who are seeking to develop a transoceanic canal and to extract resources from the region.\n\nThe vast majority of the indigenous Rama population inhabit the island of Rama Cay. Sumu Kaat, Tiktik Kaanu, Wiring Cay, Monkey Point, Bangkukuk Taik, Corn River, Punta Gorda, and Cane Creek are recognized as predominantly Rama communities on the mainland.\n\nThe Rama are descendants of a combination of indigenous communities that occupied the Caribbean coast of Nicaragua at the time of European contact. Following Spanish colonization of the region, British pirates formed an alliance with the Miskito in order to wield indirect control of the Caribbean coast. The Miskito assisted the British in pillaging Spanish ships and resisting Spanish control of the region in exchange for guns and other resources that allowed them to exert control over other indigenous groups like the Rama. According to Rama oral tradition, the Miskito gifted the island of Rama Cay to them in the 18th century in recognition of their help in fighting the Teribe people of Costa Rica.\n\nThroughout the 19th and 20th centuries the indigenous peoples of the Caribbean coast came to rely upon private investment and enterprises for socio-economic stability. In adherence to socialist policies, the Sandinista-dominated Nicaraguan government in the 1980s sought to nationalize all private institutions, which resulted in a reduction of private investment on the Caribbean coast. Many indigenous groups resented the government for its interference in the indigenous economy and regional autonomy. The Rama were one of many indigenous groups to join the Contras, a group of anticommunist guerrillas, some of whom were backed by the CIA, dedicated to fighting the Sandinista regime. As a result of the Nicaraguan Revolution, many Rama were displaced from their homes and traditional lands.\n\nIn an effort to return peace to the Caribbean coast the Nicaraguan government established the Constitution of 1987 and the Autonomy Statue. These government initiatives recognized indigenous existence in Nicaragua, the right of indigenous peoples to determine their own ethnic identity, and the right of indigenous communities to offer intercultural education in their traditional language. Due to political conflict in the nation, the regulation terms of the Autonomy Statue were not ratified until 2003. Implementation of the Autonomy Statue continues to remain a challenge, because the national government and regional councils disagree over the level of autonomy the Caribbean communities should possess.\n\nThe Rama culture is dependent upon traditional self-sufficient strategies in order to obtain desired substances. While some Rama engage in small-scale commercial fishing, a majority of the population still practices traditional occupations such as subsistence fishing and subsistence farming. Mutual assistance is an important practice in Rama communities and is relied upon for cultural and economic stability. Sexual division of labor exists among the Rama, with males responsible for hunting, fishing, and planting, while the females partake in gathering and domestic duties. Prior to the arrival of missionaries, the Rama population on Rama Cay reportedly lived in homes lacking exterior and interior walls.\n\nPoor soil conditions in the rainforest do not allow for extensive agriculture, so like other indigenous populations in the region the Rama cultivate small fields along river banks. Crops harvested by the Rama include bananas, plantains, corn, rice, beans, coconuts, pineapple, breadfruit, and pejibaye. Fishing contributes significantly to the Rama diet, which consists of oysters, cockles, freshwater shrimp, coppermouth, and snook. Hunting is practiced primarily on the mainland where important game animals such as white-lipped peccary, tapir, and deer can be found. The Rama people are commonly known for their skill in crafting dories and for their reputation of being the best navigators on the coast.\n\nIn 1847 German Moravian missionaries started work in Bluefields, Nicaragua. The missionaries worked with the different ethnic groups and became a firmly established colonial institution on the Caribbean coast. The first Moravian mission was established on Rama Cay in 1858 and contributed to the shift away from traditional practices and the use of the Rama language. The Rama people initially resisted the efforts of the missionaries because the Church's values conflicted with traditional Rama culture; however, as they dissociated from their traditional identity, the Rama became more receptive to outside influences. Today the Rama people predominantly practice in the Moravian Church. Individuals in the southeastern portion of Nicaragua alone make up 96% of the Moravian Church's membership.\n\nThe Rama language is part of the Chibchan family and is considered moribund since less than 30 elders can still speak the language fluently. Playing an important role in colonizing the region, the Moravian Church was a major force behind the loss of the Rama Language on Rama Cay. The Church taught English to the natives and influenced the formation of a negative attitude towards traditional speakers, resulting in the reference to Rama as the \"Tiger language\". As a result of this animosity, the population that inhabits Rama Cay today speaks a unique version of Rama-Creole which is similar to Creole English. Only two individuals are thought to still speak traditional Rama on the island. The Rama language had previously been preserved in mainland communities; however, modern developments are threatening the loss of traditional customs and the language.\n\nIn 1985 the Rama Language Program (RLP) was launched in response to requests to \"save the Rama language\". Initial efforts to locate and communicate with native speakers proved challenging for linguists because the inhabitants of Rama Cay still rejected any use of the Rama language. In recent years language revitalization efforts have achieved some success, as the Rama people move increasingly to associate their traditional language with their identity. This movement by the indigenous Rama to reclaim their language has led many speakers to label the language as \"rescued\".\n\nNicaragua is one of the poorest nations in the Western Hemisphere, and Nicaragua's Caribbean coast suffers from an exceptional amount of economic underdevelopment and poverty. Rama who reside in urban areas such as Bluefields suffer from discrimination and unemployment due to their ethnic identity. Unemployment levels are especially high for women and youth in this Caribbean coast region.\nThe Rama people currently occupy the South Caribbean Coast Autonomous Region (RACCS). Both this region and the North Caribbean Coast Autonomous Region (RACCN) were established with the 1987 Constitution and Autonomy law. These Statues recognize collective forms of indigenous land ownership and establish terms for natural resource management. Implementation of indigenous autonomy has proved to be difficult due to internecine conflict and lack of government support. The RACCN and RACCS make up approximately half of the nation's landmass, while Caribbean coast inhabitants make up only ten percent of the nation's population.\n\nSocial disruption resulting from the civil war in the 1980s has advanced colonization along Nicaragua's agricultural frontier. Former combantants and mestizo families displaced by the war are migrating east to renew their former lives and engage in subsistence farming. Due to the poor quality of rainforest soil and increasing social unrest on the Pacific coast, more individuals move east each year and come into contact with indigenous communities. Much of central and eastern Nicaragua is protected rainforest, yet the government lacks the resources to halt the extensive environment destruction associated with the recent migrations. The advancing agricultural frontier is responsible for large amounts of deforestation and ecological devastation in the region.\n\nThe Nicaraguan government has long sought out investors to finance the building of a Nicaraguan interoceanic canal. The Chinese company Hong Kong Nicaragua Canal Development Investment Co Ltd (HKND) was contracted in 2013 to build the canal for the cost of $40–$50 billion. Investors and the Nicaraguan government hope that the new canal will rival the Panama Canal and will be able to accommodate larger size ships and the growing demand for inter-ocean passage. The canal is expected to run from Punta Gordon on the Caribbean coast to Brito on the Pacific coast, traveling through Lake Nicaragua. Construction for the canal began in December 2014 and the project is expected to be completed by 2019. Indigenous populations are protesting the building of this canal on the grounds that they were not consulted prior to a contract being negotiated with HKND by the Nicaraguan government. Construction of the canal would require the relocation of 80% of the indigenous Rama population and would destroy traditional communal life for many other indigenous communities. International groups are protesting construction of the canal because they fear the environmental impact that the project will have on Nicaragua's endangered species and delicate ecosystem. Despite controversy surrounding the project, the Nicaraguan government is going ahead with the canal's construction, hoping the infrastructure and revenue that the canal brings in will lift the nation out of poverty.\n\n"}
{"id": "6569580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6569580", "title": "Rhodie", "text": "Rhodie\n\nRhodie is a colloquial term typically applied to a white Zimbabwean or expatriate Rhodesian.\n\nThe term \"Rhodie\" was first used by British Army and civil service personnel in Rhodesia (renamed Zimbabwe in 1980) during the period between the Lancaster House Agreement of December 1979 and the formal independence of Zimbabwe in April 1980. The term was initially applied to all white Zimbabweans. After independence, the term began to be applied increasingly to those whites who were nostalgic for the past. The nostalgia a \"Rhodie\" feels relates particularly to the UDI era (1965 to 1979), during which the predominantly white government, headed by the Prime Minister Ian Smith, declared independence from Britain in an attempt to prevent any commitment to a set timetable regarding black majority rule. The UDI project ended in the Bush War of the 1970s, fought between the Rhodesian Security Forces and the communist-backed black nationalist insurgents of the Zimbabwe African National Liberation Army (ZANLA) and the Zimbabwe People's Revolutionary Army (ZIPRA).\n\nUsage of the term \"Rhodie\" changed further in post-independence Zimbabwe. It began to be applied to a white Zimbabwean of a particular kind. An image published in \"The Sunday Times Magazine\" in 1984 showed a poster near Harare reading \"Private Party Invitation Only No Drugs No Rhodies No Racists No Troublemakers Allowed on These Premises\".\n\nA Rhodie bar is an establishment frequented by \"Rhodies\" and is often decorated with memorabilia of the UDI era and the Rhodesian Bush War. Such establishments, in pubs, restaurants and hotels, can be found in most Zimbabwean towns and there are several in South African towns such as Cape Town where concentrations of Rhodesian expatriates live. There is at least one claimed Rhodie bar in England.\n\nThe term \"Rhodie\" can also carry social connotations. During the period after independence, about two thirds of Zimbabwe's white population left the country. Those remaining tended to fall into two distinct categories. Firstly, there were individuals of high social status possessing professional skills and property which would enable them to survive in the new order. Secondly, there were individuals of low social status lacking the skills or qualities needed to emigrate.\n\nExpatriate Rhodesians outside Zimbabwe often describe each other affectionately as \"Rhodies\". These people do not generally exhibit the characteristics indicated above. \n\nUsed among dog owners for the Rhodesian Ridgeback dog breed.\n\nShort for the surname Rhoden, Rhodes, and Rhode. Used as a term of endearment without racial implications.\n\nThe term \"Zimbo\" is nowadays applied to anyone Zimbabwean.\n"}
{"id": "2586338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2586338", "title": "Rosenstiel Award", "text": "Rosenstiel Award\n\nThe Lewis S. Rosenstiel Award for Distinguished Work in Basic Medical Research is awarded by Brandeis University. It was established in 1971 \"as an expression of the conviction that educational institutions have an important role to play in the encouragement and development of basic science as it applies to medicine\".\n\nMedals are presented annually at Brandeis University on the basis of recommendations of a panel of scientists selected by the Rosenstiel Basic Medical Sciences Research Center. Awards are given to scientists for recent discoveries of \"particular originality\" and \"importance to basic medical research\". A $30,000 prize and a medallion accompanies each award. \n\nThe Rosenstiel Basic Medical Sciences Research Center, named after Lewis Solon Rosenstiel, was established in 1968, carrying out research in basic medical science.\n\nSource: Brandeis University\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41899023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41899023", "title": "Royal Commission into Trade Union Governance and Corruption", "text": "Royal Commission into Trade Union Governance and Corruption\n\nThe Royal Commission into Trade Union Governance and Corruption was a Royal Commission established by the Australian government to inquire into alleged financial irregularities associated with the affairs of trade unions. The Australian Workers Union, Construction, Forestry, Mining and Energy Union, Electrical Trades Union, Health Services Union and the Transport Workers Union were named in the terms of reference. The Royal Commission inquired into the activities relating to slush funds and other similar funds and entities established by, or related to, the affairs of these organisations.\n\nThe Prime Minister Tony Abbott announced the Royal Commission on 10 February 2014 and nominated that the Commission be overseen by a sole Royal Commissioner, The Honourable Dyson Heydon, , a former High Court judge. Letters Patent were issued on 13 March 2014. The Commissioner submitted an Interim Report in December 2014, which found cases of \"wilful defiance of the law\" and recommended criminal charges against certain unionists. Allegations of illegality against nine unions had been uncovered, with over 50 potential breaches of criminal and civil law identified.\n\nFollowing an extension, the Commissioner presented his final report to the Governor-General in December 2015, finding \"widespread and deep-seated\" misconduct by union officials in Australia. More than 40 people and organisations were referred to authorities, including police, Directors of Public Prosecutions, the Australian Securities and Investments Commission and the Fair Work Commission, and a recommendation for the establishment of an independent body to investigate union records and finances was made.\n\nAs of March 2016, only one conviction has been attained, while five other union officials have either had their charges dropped, or were found not guilty.\n\nIn 2013 the Fair Work Commission commenced initial inquiries into allegations of improper union financial conduct, and the Opposition Liberal-National Coalition promised a judicial inquiry into the AWU affair, which involved allegations of misappropriation of funds by officials of the Australian Workers Union. Craig Thomson, a Federal Labor MP, and Michael Williamson, a former President of the Labor Party, were facing fraud allegations in relation to their financial dealings as officials of the Health Services Union (both men were later convicted of fraud).\n\nIn December 2013, the Fairfax press reported that the newly elected Abbott Government would call a Royal Commission into trade union slush funds, \"less than a fortnight after a Fairfax Media investigation uncovered millions of dollars in a string of secret union slush funds. The series of Fairfax reports revealed the involvement of the NSW Right’s powerful Transport Workers Union in a $500,000 takeover of its own Queensland branch with the backing of the disgraced former HSU leader Michael Williamson. It also reported the possible unlawful misuse of union and parliamentary staff by senior union officials and Labor figures.\"\n\nThe Royal Commission into Trade Union Governance and Corruption was established on 13 March 2014 by the former Governor-General, Dame Quentin Bryce. The Governor-General issued Letters Patent which formally appointed the Royal Commissioner, John Dyson Heydon, and outlined the Terms of Reference for the inquiry.\n\nThe Letters Patent called for an investigation and recommendations with particular regard for the financial management of relevant entities and the adequacy of existing laws relating to the financial management of those entities and the accountability of their officers. It was also to investigate whether relevant entities are used for unlawful purpose; as well as the use of funds solicited in the name relevant entities. The Australian Workers Union; Construction Forestry Mining and Energy Union; Communications, Electrical, Electronic, Energy, Information, Postal, Plumbing and Allied Services Union of Australia; the Health Services Union; and the Transport Workers Union were nominated for investigation, but the Letters Patent permitted other entities facing \"credible allegations\" to be investigated.\n\nOn 30 October 2014, Governor-General Cosgrove amended the Letters Patent to include an additional term of reference, and the reporting date was revised from 31 December 2014 to 31 December 2015. Dyson Heydon told the Royal Commission in April, 2015, that \"A reading of the Interim Report will reveal that the progress of the Commission's investigations in 2014 was impeded by false testimony, delays in document production, document destruction or removal and reluctance to cooperate even on the part of persons hostile to alleged misconduct\" and said that some witnesses feared for their safety.\n\nJustice Dyson Heydon served as a judge of the NSW Court of Appeal from 2000, and was appointed as a judge of the High Court of Australia in February 2003. He was appointed a Companion in the General Division of the Order of Australia in 2004. Justice Heydon is a former Rhodes Scholar, and holds a Master of Arts and Bachelor of Civil Law from Oxford University. He was admitted to the New South Wales Bar in 1973 and appointed Queen's Counsel in 1987. Aged 34, he was elected dean of the University of Sydney Law School and practised at the Bar from 1979 until his appointment to the Court of Appeal. Heydon has written a number of legal texts, including Cross on Evidence and The Restraint of Trade Doctrine (1971).\n\nIn July 2015, Opposition Leader Bill Shorten of the Australian Labor Party, a former official of the AWU, was called to give evidence at the Royal Commission. Over two days of questioning, Counsel Assisting asked Shorten several times if he had had a conflict of interest in accepting, and not disclosing, large donations from employers while negotiating for the union on behalf of employees. Shorten said there was no conflict of interest. Shorten admitted to the commission that he had failed to declare a political donation of around $40,000 from a labour hire company in the lead up to the 2007 election campaign, and that invoices regarding the payments for services were not truthful. Shorten denied knowledge of alleged false invoicing, totalling more than $300,000, which had been sent to construction company Thiess John Holland.\n\nDuring cross examination, Counsel Assisting said that Shorten was being \"evasive\". Heydon intervened to tell Shorten that some of his answers were \"non-responsive\", adding \"If I can be frank about it, you have been criticised in the newspapers in the last few weeks and I think it’s generally believed that you have come here in the hope you will be able to rebut that criticism or a lot of it. I’m not very troubled about that, though I can understand that you are, and it’s legitimate for you to use this occasion to achieve your ends in that regard. What I’m concerned about more is your credibility as a witness … and perhaps your self-interest as a witness as well. It is in your interest to curb these, to some extent, extraneous answers.\" Following the hearing, Labor frontbencher Brendan O'Connor, brother of CFMEU national secretary Michael O'Connor, criticised Heydon's comments as \"a remarkable interjection\" and called the commission \"a witch hunt.\"\n\nIn August 2015, the Labor Party, Greens and affiliated unions criticised Dyson Heydon for receiving an invitation to deliver a law lecture at an $80 a head Liberal Party fundraiser organised by a group of Liberal affiliated lawyers. Heydon had initially given conditional agreement to speak at the forum if his duties as commissioner were completed, but later decided not to make the address. The Labor Party condemned the Commission as \"political\", called the event a \"Liberal fundraiser\" and attacked the Royal Commissioner in Parliament. On 19 August, it was reported that Heydon had said in a June 2013 panel discussion at the Centre for Independent Studies that Kevin Rudd's government had a tendency to \"do non-substantive things\". Former Labor Minister Graham Richardson wrote in \"The Australian\" that the comments were \"partisan\". In a press release, the Law Council criticised public attacks on Heydon, stating: \"The public attacks on the commissioner being played out through the media are unacceptable and damage the basis on which tribunals and courts operate,\" a council statement said. \"In this case, Mr John Dyson Heydon AC QC is a highly regarded former judicial officer.\"\n\nOn 20 and 21 August 2015, counsels for the ACTU, CEPU, HSU, TWU, Unions NSW, the Maritime Union of Australia, the Australian Workers’ Union, the CFMEU and individual members of the CFMEU presented the Royal Commission with applications for disqualification of Commissioner Heydon on the ground of \"apprehended bias\". These applications contended that an agreement made in April 2014 by Heydon to deliver in August 2015 the Sixth Annual Sir Garfield Barwick Address (an event organised by the Lawyers Branch and the Legal Policy Branch of the NSW Division of the Liberal Party), \"might cause a fair-minded lay observer reasonably to apprehend that [Dyson Heydon] might not bring an impartial mind to the resolution of questions to be examined in the course of the Commission’s inquiries.\" On 31 August, Heydon concluded, that it is \"not the case that a fair-minded lay observer might apprehend that I might not bring an impartial mind to the resolution of the questions which the work of the Commission requires to be decided\" and the work of the Commission continued.\n\nIn April 2014, Justice Heydon had initially given conditional agreement to speak at the law lecture provided the Commission had completed its inquiries. Heydon confirmed his availability to give the address, and on 12 June 2015, with attachments declaring the event a Liberal Party fundraiser. Heydon stated that he did not read the attachments. It was later agreed that the Liberal Party would not be mentioned on advertisements in public Bar Association publications. On 13 August, journalists obtained flyers for the event, announcing that it was a Liberal Party fundraiser. Heydon withdrew from the speech on the day that the media obtained Liberal Party flyers describing the event as a fundraiser. Defending himself from accusations of a conflict of interest, Heydon stated that he \"overlooked\" that the person inviting him to speak was a Liberal Party member and that he had been asked to speak only if the commission had finished, and also said that he had failed to read email attachments printed for him on 12 June.\n\nSenior counsel assisting the Commission are: Jeremy Stoljar SC, whose areas of practice include commercial law, corporations law (including corporate governance), property and building and construction; Sarah McNaughton SC, whose areas of practice include criminal law (including complex tax fraud and corporate fraud), disciplinary proceedings and inquests.\n\nOther counsel assisting the Commission are: Richard Scruby, who practices in a variety of jurisdictions, with the main areas of practice including equity and commercial law, corporations law, mining law and building and construction; Michael Elliott, whose practice areas include commercial, corporate officers' duties and liabilities, building and construction, insurance and professional negligence and has appeared as counsel at various commissions; and Thomas Prince, who was admitted to the New South Wales Bar in 2012.\n\nThe powers of Royal Commissions in Australia are set out in the enabling legislation, the . Royal Commissions, appointed pursuant to the \"Royal Commissions Act\" or otherwise, have powers to issue a summons to a person to appear before the Commission at a hearing to give evidence or to produce documents specified in the summons; require witnesses to take an oath or give an affirmation; and require a person to deliver documents to the Commission at a specified place and time. A person served with a summons or a notice to produce documents must comply with that requirement, or face prosecution for an offence. The penalty for conviction upon such an offence is a fine of or six months imprisonment. A Royal Commission may authorise the Australian Federal Police to execute search warrants.\n\nCommissioner Heydon heard opening statements at the Royal Commission on 7 July 2014. By year's end, the Trade Union Royal Commission held more than 70 public and private hearings, which involved 239 witnesses. The hearings were conducted in Sydney, Melbourne, Perth and Brisbane. 687 Notices to Produce and releasing Issues Papers on governance and protections were issued. The Royal Commission continues its Public Hearings in 2015.\n\n\nCommissioner Heydon handed his Interim Report to Governor General Sir Peter Cosgrove on 15 December, and it was tabled in Parliament on 19 December 2014. Commissioner Heydon's 1817 page Report found that the Construction Union acts in \"wilful defiance of the law\", and he recommended criminal charges of blackmail be considered against John Setka, the state secretary of the Construction, Forestry, Mining and Energy Union (CFMEU), along with his assistant Shaun Reardon and a number of other senior CFMEU officials. Activities cited by CFMEU officials included death threats, extortion, gross neglect, and other \"serious criminal matters\".\n\nUpon release of the Interim Report, \"The Age\" reported that: \"Justice Heydon identified key concerns about the use and operation of union election slush funds. They include that they operate largely in secret, have deficient or non-existent record-keeping and that candidates commonly plead ignorance on how money is raised and spent. The report also recommended fraud charges be considered against former Australian Workers Union officials Bruce Wilson and Ralph Blewitt for their use of a secret slush fund in the 1990s. Mr Wilson was the ex-boyfriend of former prime minister Julia Gillard. Justice Heydon said there were no grounds for prosecuting Ms Gillard, but agreed with counsel assisting Jeremy Stoljar's submission, that her conduct as a solicitor had been \"questionable\". Ms Gillard had done legal work setting up the slush fund for Mr Wilson and Mr Blewitt. The report recommended seven past and present Health Services Union officials should be considered for charges for their role in an alleged right of entry scam... .\n\nIn August 2015, \"The Australian\" reported that 30 individuals had been referred to 11 agencies for possible charges, and that 11 people had been referred to Commonwealth Director of Public Prosecutions (DPP) and ten people to state DPPs. Four arrests had already been made by police, and allegations of illegality against nine unions had been uncovered, with over 50 potential breaches of criminal and civil law identified.\n\nFollowing July/August 2015 hearings in Canberra, it was reported that the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) began investigating allegations emerging from the Royal Commission that union actions resulted in price fixing in the concrete and formwork trades. The media reported that \"Allegations of intimidation, blackmail, standover tactics and threats\" were uncovered and two arrests of union officials for alleged blackmail offences were made following their testimony.\n\nAs of March 2016, only one conviction has been attained, while five other union officials have either had their charges dropped, or were found not guilty.\n\nCommissioner Heydon found that corruption was widespread and deepseated, and recommended a new national regulator with the same powers as the Australian Securities and Investments Commission be established to combat corruption in the trade union movement. The Report highlighted insufficient record keeping (including false invoicing and destruction of documents); \"rubber stamp\" committees which failed to enforce rules; payment of large sums by employers to unions; and influence peddling by means of the inflation of union membership figures. The Report recommended a toughening of financial disclosure rules, new civil penalties to bind workers and officials on financial disclosure provisions; a new criminal offence. Frank Bongiorno, Professor of History at the Australian National University, has described this report as having \"all the impact of last year’s telephone book being dumped in a wheelie-bin.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "9487080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9487080", "title": "Rusi Taleyarkhan", "text": "Rusi Taleyarkhan\n\nRusi P. Taleyarkhan is a faculty member in the Department of Nuclear Engineering at Purdue University since 2003. Prior to that, he was on staff at the Oak Ridge National Laboratory (ORNL) in Oak Ridge, Tennessee. He obtained his Bachelor of Technology degree in Mechanical Engineering from the Indian Institute of Technology, Madras in 1977 and MS and PhD (Nuclear Engineering and Science) degrees from Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute (RPI) in 1978 and 1982 respectively. He also holds an MBA (Business Administration) from RPI. He was judged guilty of research misconduct for \"falsification of the research record\" by a Purdue review board in July, 2008.\n\nIn 2002, while a senior scientist at ORNL, Taleyarkhan published a paper on fusion achieved by bombarding a container of liquid solvent with strong ultrasonic vibrations, a process known as sonofusion or bubble fusion. In theory, the vibrations collapsed gas bubbles in the solvent, heating them to temperatures high enough to fuse hydrogen atoms and release energy. Following his move from Oak Ridge to Purdue in 2003, Taleyarkhan published additional papers about his research in this area.\n\nNumerous other scientists, however, were not able to replicate Taleyarkhan's work, including in published articles in \"Physical Review Letters\" from the University of Göttingen, from UCLA, from University of Illinois, from former colleagues at Oak Ridge National Labs, and a study funded by the Office of Naval Research in the University of California.\n\nTaleyarkhan's results were reportedly repeated by Edward Forringer of LeTourneau University in Taleyarkhan's own labs at Purdue in November 2006. Purdue decided at that time not to further investigate the initial narrowly defined charges of misconduct against Taleyarkhan made by other members of the Purdue Faculty.\n\nThe \"Chronicle of Higher Education\", however, has noted some problems with the verification. \"During this time, Dr. Taleyarkhan says, two more scientists came into his laboratory and independently verified bubble fusion. Dr. Taleyarkhan contends that both were experts and did their work independently of him. But in interviews, both researchers contradict aspects of that account. One of those scientists, Edward R. Forringer, a professor of physics at LeTourneau University, in Texas, says he is certainly not an expert. Nonetheless, he says he is confident that his results do support the reality of bubble fusion.\" Forringer, however, did not publish his purported confirmation in any refereed journal.\n\nOn May 10, 2007, Purdue announced that they would add at least one scientist without ties to the university to a new inquiry of Taleyarkhan and his work, at the insistence of a Congressional panel investigating the use of federal funds in attempts to reproduce Taleyarkhan's results. The panel cited concerns that Taleyarkhan's claims of independent verification were \"highly doubtful\", and criticized Purdue for using three of the same members of an earlier inquiry committee in their recently completed review. Taleyarkhan called the report a \"one-sided, grossly exaggerated write-up\" but agreed to cooperate. On September 10, 2007, Purdue reported that its internal committee had determined that \"several matters merit further investigation\" and that they were re-opening formal proceedings.\n\nThis board judged him guilty of \"research misconduct\" for \"falsification of the research record\" in July 2008 and on August 27, 2008 his status as a member of the Purdue University Graduate Faculty was limited to that of 'Special Graduate Faculty.' He was permitted to serve on graduate committees, but would not be able to serve as a major professor or co-major professor for graduate students for a period of three years. Taleyarkhan received from September 2008 to August 2009 a $185,000 grant from the National Science Foundation to investigate bubble fusion. In 2009 the Office of Naval Research debarred him for 28 months, until September 2011, from receiving U.S. Federal Funding. During that period his name was listed in the 'Excluded Parties List' to prevent him from receiving grants from any government agency.\n\n"}
{"id": "14949663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14949663", "title": "Sawi language (Dardic)", "text": "Sawi language (Dardic)\n\nSawi, Savi, or Sauji, is an endangered Indo-Aryan language of northeastern Afghanistan. It is classified as a member of the Shina language cluster within the Dardic subgroup.\n\nIt is spoken in the village of Sau, on the east bank of the Kunar River, around south of the town of Arandu, which is on the border with Pakistan's Chitral region.\nSawi speakers consider themselves part of the Gawar ethnic group, which is found in half a dozen of the surrounding villages and whose language is Gawarbati. In communicating with them, the people of Sau reportedly resort to using Pashto.\nDuring the long period of unrest, the population of the village was displaced into refugee camps in Chitral and Dir, but reportedly many people have now returned to Afghanistan.\n\nThe closest relative of the Sawi language is the southern variety of Palula spoken in Ashret further up the Kunar Valley in Chitral. Many Sawi speakers are aware of the similarity between the two languages, and some consider the people of Ashret as their \"brothers\". Henrik Liljegren's study of the shared linguistic features and the local oral traditions suggest that the ancestors of these language communities are likely to have migrated from the present-day Diamer District on the Indus River. There was probably an early split between Northern and Southern Palula, with Sawi subsequently branching off from the latter. The current similarity between the two varieties of Palula is then explained as a result of convergence.\n\nThe presence of weak voiced aspirates (bh, dh, gh) was cautiously reported by Buddruss in 1967, but found them to be absent from the speech of his consultant(s). It is likely that the loss of aspiration in the ancestor language could have been related to the development of a tone system.\n\nPossibly under the influence of Gawarbati, Sawi has developed a voiceless lateral fricative \"\" out of the \"*tr\" consonant clusters of the earlier language, compare for example Sawi \"ɬo\" with Southern Palula \"tróo\" 'three'.\n\nUnlike the main Shina varieties, where the past and present tense are typically marked for person, Sawi and Palula verb tenses are almost entirely participle-based, with only traces of agreement for person.\nLike Torwali, Sawi has grammaticalised the category of animacy in its nominal morphology.\nThe agent suffix is \"-e\" for perfective transitive verbs. Unlike the main Shina varieties, Sawi does not seem to possess an agent suffix for imperfective transitive verbs.\n\n"}
{"id": "571834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=571834", "title": "Social mania", "text": "Social mania\n\nSocial manias are mass movements which periodically sweep through societies. They are characterized by an outpouring of enthusiasm, mass involvement and millenarian goals. Social manias are contagious social epidemics, and as such they should be differentiated from mania in individuals.\n\nSocial manias come in different sizes and strengths. Some social manias fail to 'catch fire', while others persist for hundreds of years (although sometimes in severely attenuated form). Common to all is a vision of salvation, a new way of life, which if realized would radically change everyday life, ushering in a new world of freedom and justice.\n\nThe Taiping Rebellion is an excellent illustration, as it was both widespread and destructive and has no modern adherents to whom its use as an example would be a distraction. The Ghost dance which was briefly embraced by Native Americans of the Great Plains in 1890 is another excellent example which may be viewed in some historical perspective, as may The Crusades. Almost any form of religion could be argued to be a long-standing social mania, many of which have persisted through thousands of years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14082712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14082712", "title": "Tai Daeng people", "text": "Tai Daeng people\n\nThe Red Tai (in Vietnamese language Thái Đỏ; in Lao language Tai Daeng) are an ethnic group of Vietnam and Laos. They speak the Tai Daeng language. In Vietnam they are called Thái Đỏ and are included in the group of the Thái people, together with the Thái Đen (\"Black Tai\"), Thái Trắng (\"White Tai\"), Phu Thai, Tày Thanh and Thái Hàng Tổng. The group of the Thái people is the third largest of the fiftyfour ethnic groups recognized by the Vietnamese government.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2089284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2089284", "title": "Telecentre", "text": "Telecentre\n\nA telecentre is a public place where people can access computers, the Internet, and other digital technologies that enable them to gather information, create, learn, and communicate with others while they develop essential digital skills. Telecentres exist in almost every country, although they sometimes go by a different names including public internet access center (PIAP), village knowledge center, infocenter, community technology center (CTC), community multimedia center (CMC), multipurpose community telecentre (MCT), Common/Citizen Service Centre (CSC) and school-based telecentre. While each telecentre is different, their common focus is on the use of digital technologies to support community, economic, educational, and social development—reducing isolation, bridging the digital divide, promoting health issues, creating economic opportunities, and reaching out to youth for example.\n\nThe telecentre movement’s origins can be traced to Europe's telecottage and Electronic Village Halls (originally in Denmark) and Community Technology Centers (CTCs) in the United States, both of which emerged in the 1980s as a result of advances in computing. At a time when computers were available but not yet a common household good, public access to computers emerged as a solution. Today, although home ownership of computers is widespread in the United States and other industrialized countries, there remains a need for free public access to computing, whether it is in CTCs, telecottages or public libraries to ensure that everyone has access to technologies that have become essential.\n\nThere are also CTCs located in the state of New South Wales, Australia, that provide technology, resources, training and educational programs to communities in regional, rural and remote areas. \n\nBeyond the differences in names, public ICT access centers are diverse, varying in the clientele they serve, the services they provide, as well as their business or organizational model. Around the world, some telecentres include NGO-sponsored, local government, commercial, school-based, and university-related In the United States and other countries, public access to the Internet in libraries may also be considered within the “telecentre concept”, especially when the range of services offered is not limited to pure access but also includes training end-users. Each type has advantages and disadvantages when considering attempts to link communities with ICTs and to bridge the digital divide. Among the various types: \n\n\nIt is estimated that 40% of the world's population has less than US$ 20 per year available to spend on ICT. In Brazil, the poorest 20% of the population counts with merely US$9 per year to spend on ICT (US$ 0.75 per month). In Mexico, the poorest 20% of the society counts with an estimated US$ 35 per year (US$ 3 per month). For Latin America it is estimated that the borderline between ICT as a necessity good and ICT as a luxury good is roughly around the \"magical number\" of US$10 per person per month, or US$120 per year.\n\nIn the 1990s, international development institutions such as Canada’s International Development Research Centre (IDRC) and UNESCO, sponsored the deployment of many telecentres in developing countries. Both IDRC and UNESCO are still very involved in the telecentre movement. The former telecentre.org programme at IDRC was transferred to the telecentre.org Foundation in the Philippines in March 2010 and continues to support networks of telecentres around the world. UNESCO continues to support the growth of community multimedia centers (CMCs), which, unlike most other telecentres, have a local community radio, television or other media component.\n\nIn light of the rapidly evolving technologies that support telecentres and in light of the increased penetration of mobile technologies (i.e., cell phones), the telecentre model needs to continuously evolve in order to remain relevant and to continue to address the changing needs of the communities they serve. As mobile communication technologies become more pervasive around the world, including in rural areas, the telecentres may no longer need to provide phone services, yet they may still be very relevant in terms of access to web-enabled e-government services, e-Learning, and basic Internet communication needs (email and web browsing).\n\nAmong the various sustainability considerations:\n\n\"Evolving models\" — since the local demand for information and communication services is evolving, the telecentre models need to evolve as well. Franchises and other approaches to linking and networking telecentres are proving to be popular.\n\n\"Evolving technologies\" — wireless connectivity technologies, beyond VSAT (known to be expensive) are being explored in many communities around the world. These technologies provide new opportunities for connecting communities through telecentres and eventually at the individual household level.\n\n\"Evolving services\" — the types of services that telecentres can and should provide is also rapidly evolving. As the fields of eGovernment, eHealth, e-Learning, eCommerce are evolving and maturing in many countries, telecentres need to take advantage of opportunities to extend the benefits to the community at large, through their public access. Some governments are pursuing the deployment of telecentres precisely as a means of ensuring that larger segments of the population are able to access government services and information through electronic channels.\n\n\"Community stakeholders\" - identifying leaders among the community who champion the concept of shared services through telecentre mode, play a crucial role as a bridge between the telecentre operator and hesitant villagers. Indeed, There is a maturing period during which community leaders have to invest constant efforts to drive changes of behaviour in the adoption of innovations.\n\n\"Community involvement\" is required however, at the initial phase of the telecentre set up, starting with the site selection and creating a sort of empathy and feeling of empowerment. Furthermore, the telecentre should be well rooted in the socio-cultural context of the community.\n\nThe telecentres of today and of the future are networked telecentres, or telecentres of the 2.0 generation. Increasingly, telecentres are not operating as independent, isolated entities but as members of a network. At times, the network takes the form of a franchise. In other circumstances, the network is much more informal.\n\nOne such regional network targeted towards Asia-Pacific is, the Asia-Pacific Telecentre Network.\n\nIn the United States, more than 1,000 community technology centers where organized under the leadership of CTCnet, a nonprofit association headquartered in Washington, D.C.. CTCs are also organized under the banner of state organizations, such as the Ohio Community Computing Network, or city programs such the City of Seattle Community Technology Program. and Austin FreeNet.\n\nFor more information on telecentre networks, visit telecentre.org. An overview of telecentre networks can also be found in Chapter 7 of Making the Connection: Scaling Telecentres for Development.\n\nAdditional information about concept of community telecentres can also be found in the online book .\n\nAdditional information about the practice of building and sustaining telecentres can be found in this page on Telecentre Sustainability.\n\nAdditional information about the social, political, economic, and technical problems and challenges facing the development and sustainability of telecentres can be found at Telecenters.\n\nThere is a growing research and analytical literature on telecentres and other community based technology initiatives and approaches particularly within the context of Community informatics as an academic discipline and through the Journal of Community Informatics.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57398856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57398856", "title": "Texas State University Department of Philosophy", "text": "Texas State University Department of Philosophy\n\nThe Texas State University Department of Philosophy is an academic division in the College of Liberal Arts at Texas State University. \nIt has particular strengths in applied philosophy, moral philosophy, environmental ethics, philosophy of technology and political philosophy.\n\nThe Philosophy Dialogue Series is a forum for the \"exchange and critical evaluation of diverse ideas\". It includes about 60 presentations in each semester and has been held for over 20 years.\n\nThe Master’s Program in Applied Philosophy and Ethics (MAAPE), opened in August 2010, is the largest philosophy master’s program in Texas.\n\nSince the Ethics Bowl began, the Texas State team has won the regional competition several times and advanced to the national tournament.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6177139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6177139", "title": "The Crime and the Glory of Commander Suzdal", "text": "The Crime and the Glory of Commander Suzdal\n\n\"The Crime and the Glory of Commander Suzdal\" is a science fiction short story by Cordwainer Smith, set in Smith's \"Instrumentality\" universe. It was first published in \"Amazing Stories\" in May 1964, and is collected in \"The Rediscovery of Man\" compendium.\n\nCommander Suzdal is a captain of \"The Navy and the Instrumentality\" sent on a \"one man\" mission of exploration (in actuality he is accompanied by several generations of \"Turtle-People\"). He hibernates in cryogenic sleep while long-lived turtle underpeople run the ship, until the need for a \"true human\" arises. \n\nA deep space probe is found. It tells a brilliantly conceived but utterly false story about the plight of a group of settlers calling themselves the Arachosians. Suzdal is deceived and turns his ship towards the planet Arachosia and reenters hibernation. \n\nWhen he arrives he learns the horrible truth. The original settlers nearly became extinct, succumbing to a plague that (in Smith's words) rendered \"femininity carcinogenic.\" They were only able to save their women by chemically (and later genetically) making them male. However, the resulting society is deeply unbalanced by the lack of females and ordinary family structure. The Arachosians, not truly male or female and calling themselves \"klopts\", realize on an instinctive level what they are missing and as a result, hate normal human beings with unbridled fervor and regard them as abominations to be destroyed (even though they have not seen one in many generations). To carry out this plan, they have dispatched traps in the form of messages, such as the one Suzdal encountered, throughout the galaxy.\n\nWhen Suzdal wakes up, the Arachosians are already crawling over the outside of his ship. On the advice of an artificial security officer, he uses an emergency device intended to send his large spacecraft back a few seconds in time to instead hurl feline genetic material (coded to evolve for intelligence and to obey Suzdal) millions of years back on the far side of the local moon. A race of advanced, space-faring cat-descendants appears instantaneously and hail Suzdal as their god and creator. They engage the Arachosians at his order, allowing him to escape.\n\nDespite saving the ship and successfully concealing Earth's location from the Arachosians, Suzdal is stripped of rank, name, life and finally death, finding himself sentenced to the prison planet Shayol for his misuse of the time device. He is later seen in the story \"A Planet Named Shayol\". Meanwhile the Instrumentality officially declares all accounts of his story to be lies, including the text at hand.\n\nThomas Clareson has described \"Commander Suzdal\" as \"more parable than story\", while Eliot Borenstein considers it \"an oblique cautionary tale about men's attempts to manage without women.\" \n\nRich Horton, writing for \"Black Gate\", calls the story \"odd\", \"decidedly weird\" and \"disquieting\", comparing the Arachosians disfavorably to the all-male society in Lois McMaster Bujold's \"Ethan of Athos\", but conceding that it has \"some of the incantatory power Smith always strove for\". Paul Kincaid, at the \"SF Site\", described it as a story about the human \"capacity to become monsters when we follow someone who is 'brilliant, remorseless, implacable',\" and compared the Arachosians' broadcast lure to Tokyo Rose.\n\n"}
{"id": "17636087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17636087", "title": "Tlatelolco (altepetl)", "text": "Tlatelolco (altepetl)\n\nTlatelolco (, ) (also called Mexico Tlatelolco) was a prehispanic altepetl or city-state, in the Valley of Mexico. Its inhabitants were known as \"Tlatelolca\". The Tlatelolca were a part of the Mexica, a Nahuatl-speaking people who arrived in what is now central Mexico in the 13th century. The Mexica settled on an island in Lake Texcoco, founding the \"altepetl\" of Mexico-Tenochtitlan on the southern portion of the island. In 1337, a group of dissident Mexica broke away from the Tenochca leadership in Tenochtitlan and founded Mexico-Tlatelolco on the northern portion of the island. Tenochtitlan was closely tied with its sister city, which was largely dependent on the market of Tlatelolco, the most important site of commerce in the area.\n\nIn 1337, thirteen years after the foundation of Tenochtitlan, the Tlatelolca declared themselves independent from the Tenochca and inaugurated their first independent \"tlatoani\" (dynastic ruler). Under the king Cuacuauhpitzahuac (1376–1417), the first two stages of the Main Pyramid of Tlatelolco were constructed. Under Tlacateotl, the Tlatelolca assisted the Tenochca in the war against the Tepanec empire, dominated by Azcapotzalco. shortly thereafter, the first war between the Tenochca and Tlatelolca erupted. Also during Tlacateotl's reign, the third stage of the Main Pyramid was constructed. Under Cuauhtlatoa (1427–1467), the Tlatelolca conquered the city-state of Ahuilizapan (now Orizaba, Veracruz), and fought against the people of Chalco along with the Tenochca. The fourth and fifth stages of the Main Pyramid were constructed in this period. The ruler Moquihuix constructed the sixth stage of the temple, but in 1473 he was defeated by the Tenochca \"tlatoani\" Axayacatl, and Tlatelolco was made subject to Tenochtitlan. Itzcuauhtzin ruled Tlatelolco during a period in which it was almost completely incorporated into Tenochtitlan.\n\nAfter the completion of the two-year Spanish Conquest of the Aztec Empire in 1521, the Spanish conquerors established the ruins of Mexico-Tenochtitlan as the Spanish capital of New Spain. The remnants of the indigenous populations of Tenochtitlan and Tlatelolco following the conquest were administered by indigenous elites in the incorporated Indian towns of Santiago Tlatelolco and San Juan Tenochtitlan. Tlatelolco remained an important location in the colonial era, partly because of the foundation there of the school for elite indigenous men, the Colegio de Santa Cruz de Tlatelolco, which was the first school of higher learning in the Americas. Today its remains are located within Mexico City.\n\nIn the twentieth and twenty-first centuries, archeological excavations have taken place at the Tlatelolco (archaeological site) in what is now part of Mexico City. The excavations of the prehispanic city-state are centered on the Plaza de las Tres Culturas, a square surrounded on three sides by an excavated Aztec site, a 17th-century church called \"Templo de Santiago\", and the modern office complex of the Mexican foreign ministry. In February 2009, the discovery of a mass grave with 49 human bodies was announced by archaeologists. The grave is considered unusual because the bodies are laid out in ritual fashion.\n\n"}
{"id": "2955427", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2955427", "title": "UFO-Norge", "text": "UFO-Norge\n\nUFO-NORGE, founded in 1972, is a Norwegian national UFO research organisation.\n\nDuring the summer of 1946, the Norwegian press started reporting sightings of \"ghost rockets\". Hundreds of people all over Scandinavia saw these phenomena, which have not yet been studied in detail by researchers. Press coverage of UFO sightings was high in 1947, and the first books about \"Flying Saucers\" appeared 1954.\n\nThe first UFO groups started to form during the early 1950s. Small groups existed in several of Norway's largest cities during the 1950s and 1960s. None of these were particularly interested in scientific aspects, most were convinced that the aliens were already here.\n\nIn 1972, these small groups formed a national organisation called Norsk UFO Center (NUFOC). In 1980 NUFOC changed its name to UFO-NORGE. During the 1970s and 1980s NUFOC/UFO-NORGE gradually became more sensible and less secteric. Today, UFO-NORGE represents a serious and common-sense approach to UFO phenomena.\n\nThe objectives of UFO-NORGE are to:\n\nToday, the word \"UFO\" is accepted as a proper noun.\nUFO-NORGE has defined the term UFO as \"a reported phenomenon in the sky, in the airspace, or on the ground, with the key characteristics of being and remaining unidentified even after being investigated by competent researchers\".\n\nUFO-NORGE is an organisation managed by a board of directors (\"Styret\"), 3 persons (\"styreformann\" + 2 x \"styremedlem\"), which irregularly get together. Each year the board of directors and an additional 6 people, which hold various functions within the organisation, meet and discuss/decide the larger issues of organisation direction and guidelines.\nAll activities are carried out on an unpaid, spare time basis.\n\nAs part of the investigation of reports, a paper report form is used. In addition we have a web-based report form. Since 1972, UFO-NORGE has investigated and collected more than 4,000 reports, of which a significant part has turned out to be known (mis-)identified phenomena. Today the percentage of explained sightings is between 80% and 95%. The remaining 5-20% cannot be explained and are archived as UFO reports.\nEarlier the identified IFO reports were not saved for posterity, but today they are (since 1995).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27965798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27965798", "title": "Urhobo people", "text": "Urhobo people\n\nThe Urhobos are people located in Southern Nigeria, near the northwestern Niger Delta. The Urhobo are the major ethnic group in Delta State, one of the 36 states of the Federal Republic of Nigeria. The Urhobos speak the Urhobo language. \n\nThe word Urhobo refers to a group of people rather than a territory. Approximately two million people are Urhobos. They have a social and cultural affinity to the Edo people of Nigeria. The Urhobo people live in a territory bounded by latitudes 6°and 5°, 15° North and Longitudes 5°, 40° and 6°, 25° East in the Delta and the Bayelsa States of Nigeria. Their neighbors are the Isoko to the Southeast, the Itsekiri and Ijaw to the West, the Edo people, Bini, to the North, the Ijaw to the South and the Ukwuani people (to the Northeast). Urhobo territory consists of evergreen forests with many oil palm trees. The territory is covered by a network of streams, whose volume and flow are directly affected by the seasons. The wet season is traditionally from April to October, and dry season ranges from November to March.\n\nThe Urhobos are organized into two different political kingdoms, gerontocracies and plutocracies. A gerontocracy is a government run by elders, based on the age-grade-system, while a plutocracy is governed by the rich and wealthy, with some elements of gerontocracy. Although it is not clear which kingship is older among the kingdoms, their developments reached a climax in the 1940s and 50s.\n\nThe Urhobo government structure occurs at two levels, kingdom and town. The people are organized either by elders or by the wealthy. \n\nUrhobo indigenous governments have an \"Ovie\" (king), who is the highest political figure. The Ovie is the symbol of the kingdoms' culture and royal predecessors. His councillors consist of the \"Otota\" (speaker), and the \"Ohoveworen\" or \"Okakoro\", addressed collectively as \"Ilorogun\" (singular: \"Olorogun\"). Other title holders are the executioners (\"Ikoikpokpo\"), and the warriors (\"Ogbu\"). Other political titles are specific to the different kingdoms. The judicial system places a clear distinction between civil and criminal offenses.\n\nThe queen, is called \"Ovieya\", and her children are known as \"Ọmọ Ovie\". Presently, this name is given to children without royal heritage. Some Urhobo cultural divisions adopted titles other than Ovie. For example, the Okpe call their traditional ruler \"Orodje\", Okere-Urhobo call theirs \"Orosuen\", Agbarho uses \"Osuivie\", Orogun use \"Okpara-Uku\"\" (mainly due to their proximity with Ukwuani people), and the Urhobos in the Olomu Kingdom call their king \"Ohworode\". Some Southern Urhobo clans and communities also practice the Odio system, which is widespread in the Isoko region.\n\nThe bulk of the Urhobo people reside in the Southwestern states of Delta and Bayelsa in Nigeria, also referred to as the Niger Delta. Ofoni is an Urhobo community in Sagbama, Local Government Area, in Bayelsa. Ofoni is about 40 kilometers by water to Sagbama. Many Urhobos live in small and major cities in regions or local government areas in Ughelli, Warri, Abraka, Orerokpe and Sapele. Some Urhobo major cities and towns include Okparabe, Arhavwarien, Warri, Sapele, Abraka and Ughelli.\n\nThe following are local government areas where Urhobo traditional homes are located in Delta and Bayelsa:\n\nThe Urhobos live very close to, and sometimes in boats on the Niger river. Most of their histories, mythologies, and philosophies are water-related. Annual fishing festivals that include masquerades, fishing, swimming contests and dancing, that became part of the Urhobo heritage. An annual, two-day, festival, called Ohworu takes place in Evwreni, the southern part of the Urhobo area. During this festival the Ohworhu water spirit and the Eravwe Oganga are displayed. \n\nMarriage in Urhobo culture requires prayers to the ancestors (\"Erivwin\"), and God (\"Oghene\"). The marriage ritual, known as \"Udi Arhovwaje,\" takes place in the ancestral home of the bride or a patrilineal relation of the bride.\n\nThe groom goes with his relatives and friends to the bride's father's home, bringing gifts of drinks, salt, kola nuts and occasionally food requested by the bride's family. Formal is given by the bride's parents, or whomever is representing the bride's family, as are the traditional rites of pouring gin, brought by the groom, as a tribute to the father's ancestors in order to bless them with health, children and wealth. After this marriage rite the husband can claim a refund of the money (bride price) should the marriage fail. It is believed that the ancestors witness the marriage, and only the physical body that is sent to the husband in the marriage, the \"Erhi\" (spirit double), remains in the family home. This explains why a woman is brought back to be buried in her family home when she dies.\n\nIn the ancestral home of the man, the wife is welcomed into the family by the eldest member. She is expected to confess all of her love affairs during and after her betrothal to her husband, if any, and is then absolved from of them. She becomes a full member of her husband's family after this ritual, and is assumed to be protected by the supernatural (\"Erivwin\"). This ritual symbolizes an agreement between the wife and the \"Erivwin\".\n\nIf the wife later becomes unfaithful, it is believed that she will be punished by the \"Erivwin\" – this is why wives are faithful to their husbands.\n\nUrhobo has never been an homogenous linguistic entity. Since time immemorial, Urhobo has been colored by variation that occur on various levels. These variations manifest in the various Urhobo clans and kingdoms. A specific dialect of Urhobo has even broken off and become an individual ethnic nationality (Isoko). Another dialect is prospecting at this option (Okpe). The main reason for this break-off is that these dialects see themselves as individual groups. The Isoko Dialect of Urhobo is so broad and large that it is effectively a language of its own. Isoko is a proto-Edoid language and hence it is closer to how Urhobo once was when the people said goodbye to their Benin progenitors. Isoko has its own sub-dialects such as Iyede, Erhowa, Enwhe, Olomoro, Oleh, etc. The main dialectal difference between Urhobo and Isoko include; Use of Degwo instead of Migwo for greeting, repetition of utterances and words.i.e. “Yanzobone Yanzobone (Come here, Come here)”, different names for various objects, etc. \n\nJames W. Welch once asserted that Isoko is a dialect of Urhobo. For many years, most historians, linguists and cultural anthropologists are of the opinion that Isoko is just a dialect and a cultural unit of Urhobo. In fact, this was upheld by the British that these two ethnic groups were once referred to as the \"Sobo\" people. Later on, the Isokos were called the Eastern Urhobos. Till now, some people are of the belief that these two ethnic units are one due to similarities in culture, language, food and virtually everything. The Isoko and Urhobo names for most items are mostly the same. They greet the same way ( Urhobos say Migwor and Isokos say Digwor ), marriages are in the same tradition, traditional religion and philosophy is akin and even dressing is the same. The Urhobo nation is made up of twenty-four sub-groups, including the largest, Okpe.\n\nThe Urhobo \"Okpo\" (week) is made up of four days, based on regulated market cycles, religious worship, marriages and other community life. The four days are \"Edewo\", \"Ediruo\", \"Eduhre\" and \"Edebi\". Edewo and Eduhre are sacred days to divinities, spirits and ancestors. Most markets are held on these days. On \"Edewo\", ancestors are venerated. Most traditional religious rituals are held on \"Eduhre\".\n\nSpirits are believed to be active in the farmlands and forests on \"Edewo\" and \"Eduhre\". Therefore, farmers rarely work on these days so as not to disturb the spirits.\n\nUrhobo months are called \"Emeravwe\" and are made up of 28 days. Most of the annual festivals are held during the months of \"Asa\", \"Eghwre\", \"Orianre\" and \"Urhiori\". These are the months of harvest, when farming activity is at its lowest, so most farmers are free to partake. These are also months to honor the gods of the land, as well as spiritual forces that brought a good harvest.\n\nAs with most tribes in Nigeria, certain foods are considered to belong to or originate from a particular tribe. For example, pounded yam and \"egusi\" soup come from the Yoruba's (Eba), and \"Ogbono\" soup, made from \"Irvingia gabonensis\" and sometimes referred to as \"Ogbolo\" soup, comes from people of Esan or Etsakor descent. Urhobos claim \"Ukhodo\" (a yam and unripe plantain dish prepared with either beef, poultry, or fish, and spiced with lemon grass and potash), \"Oghwevwri\" (emulsified palm oil soup), and starch (\"Usi\"), made from the cassava plant. It is heated and stirred into a thick mound with added palm oil to give the starch its unique orange-yellow colour. \"Oghwevwri\" is composed of smoked or dried fish, bush meat, unique spices, potash and oil palm juice. Other delicacies of the Urhobo tribe are palm nut oil soup and \"amiedi\" or \"banga\" soup, often eaten with \"usi\" and or \"garri\". \"Banga\" is made from palm kernel. Other culinary delicacies include \"Iriboto\", \"Iriberhare\" and \"Okpariku\".\n\nThe main focus of Urhobo traditional religion is the adoration of \"Ọghẹnẹ\" (Almighty God), the supreme deity, and recognition of Edjo and Erhan (divinities). Some of these divinities could be regarded as personified attributes of Ọghẹnẹ. The Urhobo also worship God with \"Orhen\" (white chalk). If an Urhobo feels oppressed by someone, he appeals to Ọghẹnẹ, who he believes to be an impartial judge, to adjudicate between him and his opponent. Oghene is the fundamental factor and manifestation of all divinities. Urhobo divinities can be classified into four main categories, which probably coincide with historical development. These categories are Guardian divinities, War divinities, Prosperity divinities and Fertility and Ethical divinities.\n\n\"Erivwin\", which is the cult of ancestors and predecessors (\"Esemo\" and \"Iniemo\"), is another important element. The dead are believed to be living, and looked upon as active members who watch over the affairs of their family. Urhobos believe in the duality of man, i.e., that man consists of two beings: physical body (\"Ugboma\") and spiritual body (\"Erhi\").\n\nIt is the \"Erhi\" that declares man's destiny and controls the self-realization of man's destiny before he incarnates into the world. \"Erhi\" also controls the overall well being (\"Ufuoma\") of the man. Ọghẹnẹ is like a monarch who sets his seal on the path of destiny.\n\nIn the spirit world, \"Erivwin\", man's destiny is ratified and sealed. In the final journey of the \"Erhi\", after transition, the Urhobo believe the physical body, \"Ugboma\", decays while the \"Ehri\" is indestructible and joins the ancestors in \"Erivwin\". The elaborate and symbolic burial rites are meant to prepare the departed \"Erhi\" for happy re-union with the ancestors.\n\nDespite this age-old and complex belief system, the influence of western civilization and Christianity is fast becoming an acceptable religion in most Urhobo communities. Many belong to Catholic and new evangelical denominations.\n\n\"Epha\" divination, similar to the Yoruba \"Ifá\" and practiced by many West African ethnic groups, is practiced with strings of cowries. There are 1,261 \"ejo\" (deities), including the one-handed, one-legged mirror-holding whirlwind-god Aziza.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1438871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1438871", "title": "Vienna Opera Ball", "text": "Vienna Opera Ball\n\nThe Vienna Opera Ball (German: \"Wiener Opernball\") is an annual Austrian society event which takes place in the building of the Vienna State Opera in Vienna, Austria on the Thursday preceding Ash Wednesday (a religious holiday). Together with the New Year Concert, the ball is one of the highlights of the Viennese carnival season.\n\nThe tradition of the ball goes back to 1814 during the time when the crowned heads of Europe and the aristocracy searched for entertainment after the Napoleonic wars. The first ball in the opera house took place in 1877 as a \"soirée\". The following balls were \"redoute\", a French term for masquerade balls or costume parties, where the ladies wore their masks until midnight. From 1878 until 1899, such \"redoute\" balls took place around two to three times a year.\n\nThe first \"redoute\" after World War I took place in 1921, with proceeds going to the pension fund of the two state theaters. These events were called also called \"Opernredoute\".\n\nThe first ball to be named \"Opera Ball\" was held in 1935 under the honorary patronage of the Federal Chancellor, but was suspended during World War II. It was revived after the war; it has been held annually ever since, with the exception of 1991, when it was cancelled due to the Persian Gulf War. Since 2008, Desirée Treichl-Stürgkh has been the chairman (supervising organizer) of the Vienna Opera Ball. It is the highlight of the season, with the heads of state and government, the political and industrial elite, members of the high society, and their guests attending. The price for the entry tickets is the highest of all the Viennese balls.\n\nStarting in 1987, the \"Opernballdemo\", a left-wing demonstration along the Ringstraße against the kind of capitalism represented by, as the protesters see it, many of the elite attending the ball, has regularly taken place on the same night. There have been occasional outbreaks of violence. This has almost disappeared since 2011, with protests focusing on the nationalist \"Akademikerball\" instead.\n\nThe only ball officially associated with the Vienna Opera Ball is the A similar ball takes place in New York City and another in Budapest, but they are not affiliated with the Vienna Opera Ball.\n\nEach year, almost overnight, the auditorium of the Vienna State Opera is turned into a large ballroom. On the eve of the event, the rows of seats are removed from the stalls, and a new floor, level with the stage, is built.\n\nThe dress code is evening dress: white tie and tails for men; usually floor-length gowns for women.\n\nThe ball does not start until around 10 pm when the Austrian president and his guests enter the imperial balcony. Their arrival is heralded by trumpets. The Austrian national anthem is played followed by the European anthem. There are performances of the state opera ballet company and classical arias sung by the opera stars. These are normally a small selection of Italian opera and famous Austrian pieces. The highlight of the opening ceremony is the introduction of 180 debutante couples. These are carefully selected young women and men who have successfully completed an application program and a strict classical dance choreography organised by the Elmayer dance school. The debutantes are led into the opera house to the sounds of Carl Michael Ziehrer's \"Fächerpolonaise\". Dances are then, for example, the Polonaise in A-Dur, Op. 40 by Frédéric Chopin and Johann Strauss' \"Warschauer-Polka\". The last dance of the debutantes is always the \"Blue Danube\" Viennese Waltz by Johann Strauss II, after which the floor is opened to all guests.\n\nThe ball runs until 6 am. The opera house offers all access to the guests, with various other rooms and lounges open with different types of music and dance. There is catering on all floors offered by Café Gerstner, as well as a hairdresser, an in-house tailor, and medical teams on standby. Casinos Austria is one of the sponsors and offers roulette.\n\nVarious dances moderated by the master of ceremony take place every two hours, such as the popular cotillion. Although not officially allowed, towards the end the tradition is for the guests to take apart the flower decoration on the balcony and shower the remaining dancers with it on the main floor, or take it home.\n\nIn a joint venture, ORF and BR broadcast live from the ball for several hours each year.\n\nIn 1995 Austrian writer Josef Haslinger published a novel entitled \"Opernball\" in which thousands of people are killed in a Neo-Nazi terrorist attack taking place during that society event. The novel was the basis of a 1998 made-for-TV movie by Urs Egger with the same title.\n\nThe ball was featured in the postcard for San Marino in the Eurovision Song Contest 2015. In it, San Marinese participants Michele Perniola and Anita Simoncini attend an evening at the ball.\n\n\"Viennese balls\" outside of Austria are held in Paris, New York, Moscow, Stockholm, Dubai, etc.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42777788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42777788", "title": "World Bosniak Congress", "text": "World Bosniak Congress\n\nWorld Bosniak Congress (\"WBC\", ) is a global Bosniak organization. It was founded on 29 December 2012.\n\nIt was founded by Ferid Muhić, president of Bosniak Academy of Sciences and Arts, Mustafa Cerić, ex-reisu-l-ulema in Bosnia and Herzegovina and Muhamed Filipović, prominent Bosniak academician. The Congress has a strong presence from Sandžak, a Muslim Bosniak-majority region on the Serbia-Montenegro frontier.\n\nWBC is determined as a part of Bosnian revival after Bosnian War for independence and ethnic cleansing.\n\n"}
{"id": "18627428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18627428", "title": "Zaścianek", "text": "Zaścianek\n\nIn Poland, zaścianek (literally: \"behind the wall\") is a village, often where yeomanry (\"drobna szlachta\") lives, especially in Mazovia and Podlachia. The derived adjective \"zaściankowy\" means \"out-of-the-way\" or \"narrow-minded\".\n\n"}
