{"id": "50218414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50218414", "title": "Altgermanische Wisentjagd", "text": "Altgermanische Wisentjagd\n\nAltgermanische Wisentjagd, or Altgermanische Büffeljagd, is an outdoor sculpture by Fritz Schaper, installed along Fasanerieallee in the Tiergarten, Berlin, Germany.\n\n"}
{"id": "57140071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57140071", "title": "Ancient Egyptian pottery", "text": "Ancient Egyptian pottery\n\nAncient Egyptian pottery includes all objects of fired clay from ancient Egypt. First and foremost, ceramics served as household wares for the storage, preparation, transport, and consumption of food, drink, and raw materials. Such items include beer and wine mugs and water jugs, but also bread molds, fire pits, lamps, and stands for holding round vessels, which were all commonly used in the Egyptian household. Other types of pottery served ritual purposes. Ceramics are often found as grave goods.\n\nSpecialists in ancient Egyptian pottery draw a fundamental distinction between ceramics made of Nile clay and those made of marl clay, based on chemical and mineralogical composition and ceramic properties. Nile clay is the result of eroded material in the Ethiopian mountains, which was transported into Egypt by the Nile. This clay has deposited on the banks of the Nile in Egypt since the Late Pleistocene by the inundation. Marl clay is a yellow-white stone which occurs in limestone deposits. These deposits were created in the Pleistocene, when the primordial waters of the Nile and its tributaries brought sediment into Egypt and deposited in on what was then the desert edge.\n\nOur understanding of the nature and organisation of ancient Egyptian pottery manufacture is based on tomb paintings, models, and archaeological remains of pottery workshops. A characteristic of the development of Egyptian ceramics is that the new methods of production which were developed over time never entirely replaced older methods, but expanded the repertoire instead, so that eventually, each group of objects had its own manufacturing technique. Egyptian potters employed a wide variety of decoration techniques and motifs, most of which are associated with specific periods of time, such as the creation of unusual shapes, decoration with incisions, various different firing processes, and painting techniques.\n\nAn important classification system for Egyptian pottery is the \"Vienna system\", which was developed by Dorothea Arnold, Manfred Bietak, Janine Bourriau, Helen and Jean Jacquet, and Hans-Åke Nordström at a meeting in Vienna in 1980.\n\nSeriation of Egyptian pottery has proven useful for the relative chronology of ancient Egypt. This method was invented by Flinders Petrie in 1899. It is based on the changes of vessel types and the proliferation and decline of different types over time.\n\nUnderstanding of the raw material is essential for understanding the development, production, and typology of Egyptian ceramics. In Egyptian archaeology the distinction between Nile clay and marl clay is fundamental. Mixtures of the two types of clay can be seen as a third group.\n\nNile clay is the result of eroded material in the Ethiopian mountains, which was transported into Egypt by the Nile. This clay has deposited on the banks of the Nile in Egypt since the Late Pleistocene by the inundation. As a result, deposits can be found far from the modern floodplain as well as within the level covered by the flood in modern times. Chemically, the clay is characterised by high silicum content and a high level of Iron oxide. Mineralogically, it is micacaeous, illite-rich sediment clay, containing many different sand and stone particles brought from the various contexts through which the Nile flows. The clay turns a red or brown colour when it is fired in an oxygen-rich oven. When unfired, it varies in colour from grey to nearly black.\n\nThe marl clay (or 'desert clay') is found along the Nile valley, from Esna to Cairo, in the Oases and at the edges of the Nile Delta. It is a yellow-white stone, which is found in limestone deposits. The deposits were created in the Pleistocene, when the original Nile river and its tributaries deposited this clay in what had previously been desert. Marl clay includes a range of kinds of clay based on their base substance. In general, they have a lower percentage of silicum and significantly higher calcium content. The most important sub-types of marl clay are:\n\n\nMarl clay is normally cream or white in colour when it is fired in an oxygen-rich oven. Cuts can reveal pink or orange areas. It is rich in mineral salts, so the outer surface often has a thin layer of weathered salt which forms a white surface layer when fired, which can be mistake for a 'glaze' by the unwary. At higher firing temperature (c. 1000 °C), this layer becomes olive-green and resembles a green glaze.\n\nThe selection of material was based on local conditions and the function of the object being manufactured. Nile clay was principally used for household crockery and containers, as well as ceramics for ritual use. Marl clay was principally used for storage and prestige objects like figural vessels.\n\nThere is little precise information on how and where Egyptian potters got their raw material, how clay pits were run, how it was transported and how it was assigned to individual potters. In general, it seems that the clay came from three different places: the shore of the Nile or irrigation canals, the desert near the fields, and the hills of the desert itself. A depiction in the tomb of Rekhmire (TT100) shows workers in the process of building up pile of Nile mud with hoes in order to make mudbricks. Clay for pottery production might have been gathered in a similar way. The scene also shows that Nile clay did not absolutely have to be taken from the fields. Piles of Nile clay were built up in the process of digging irrigation canals - as still happens today.\n\nEgyptian tomb paintings often show the preparation of the clay. There are also models which provide some other details. Clear archaeological remains of pottery workships, however, are rare. It is possible that they were very ephemeral structures.\n\nClay which is exposed to air, dries very quickly. As a result, clay often reached the potter as dry, stony clumps (especially the marl clay from the desert) which first had to be cleaned and mixed with water in order to make it possible to shape it. The raw clay was also dried and crushed in order to remove any large impurities, like stones, by passing it through a sieve. Another possibility was the elutriation of the clay by repeatedly immersing hard clay pellets in water and skimming the fine clay off the top. There is no evidence for such a process in the pottery workshop in Ayn Asil (Dachla), but there is some possible evidence at Hieraconpolis. This elutriation would have to have been carried out in one or more pits or watering holes. Even before these finds, the depictions of potters in the tomb of Kenamun (TT93) had been interpreted as depicting elutriation in a watering hole. At least for the clay used in Meidum-ware in the Old Kingdom and the remarkably homogeneous Nile clay used from the beginning of the 18th dynasty, some kind of refining technology must have been used.\n\nStandard images show one or two men involved in preparing the clay, once they had softened it, by treading it with their feet in order to turn it into a malleable mass. At this stage, the clay might be supplemented with temper, if it was decided that it did not already contain sufficient fine impurities, like sand. It was important that these not be too big or sharp, \"excessively large temper can make the walls of pottery vessels unstable, since the clay will not be able to mesh together properly. Sharp particles, like stones, could hurt the potter when kneading the clay and forming the vessels and prevent the creation of a smooth surface.\" Through the addition of balanced temper, the clay could be made \"more malleable and stable during production, and also more porous, which made it easier to dry, bake, and use the finished vessel.\"\n\nAfter the clay had been mixed with water it would be full of air bubbles. To prevent cracking during the firing process, the clay had to be kneaded. In this process, two halves of a lump of clay were beaten against one another with significant force. In the tomb paintings, a worker in a bent position is shown working the clay with his hands before handing the kneaded balls directly over to the potter.\n\nThere were five different techniques for shaping clay in ancient Egypt:\n\nCharacteristic of the development of ceramics is that, although new methods were developed over time, they never entirely replaced older ones. Rather, they expanded the repertoire, so that at the high point in the history of Egyptian pottery, each type of object had its own manufacturing technique.\n\nThere were several different techniques for making pottery by hand: stacking a number of coils on a flat clay base, weaving, and free modelling. These three techniques were used from the predynastic period until at least the Old Kingdom.\n\nFree modelling by kneading and pulling at the clay with the hands is the oldest and most enduring technique for shaping clay. It was employed for all vessels in the Faiyum A culture, in the Merimde culture, and probably also in the Badari culture. In the Old Kingdom, it was used for the most important types and it was used for figures and models in all periods. The resulting product had thick walls. The technique is recognisable by pressure marks where individual bits of clay have been pressed together.\n\nIn the weaving technique, flat rectangular pieces of clay were woven together. The technique can be recognised by the fact that the broken vessels tend to form rectangular sherds. The technique seems to have come into widespread use in early Egypt, from the time when larger pottery vessels began to be made at the latest. Throughout the whole Pharaonic period and down to Roman times, large basins and tubs were made using this technique.\n\nIn the clay coil method, a series of coils of clay were stacked one on top of the other to form the walls of a pot. This technique is seen in late predynastic pottery from Heliopolis.\n\nDuring the Chalcolithic, the rotating pilaster came into use for the manufacture of ceramics. This may have arisen from the desire to make the body and especially the opening of the vessel being made symmetrical. The technique can be clearly recognised from a horizontal rotation mark in the opening of the cessel. Unlike the potter's wheel, there was no fixed axis around which rotations were centred.\n\nThe pilaster used in this technique could by a bowl, plate, basket, mat, textile, or even a pottery sherd. This pilaster was rotated along with the vessel, as the potter shaped it. The rotation technique was used only for the creation of the vessel's shell. The earlier techniques were also used for other parts of the manufacturing process. Thus, on finished vessels, traces of free modelling are found, especially in the lower parts, but the edges were turned after the completion of the whole vessel.\n\nAn important advance was the invention of the potter's wheel, which rotated on a central axis. This enabled the potter to rotate the wheel and the vessel with one hand, while shaping the vessel with the other hand.\n\nAccording to Dorothea Arnold, the slow potter's wheel was invented some time during the Fourth dynasty. Eva Christiana Köhler has subsequently argued that this should be corrected to a substantially earlier period, \"the invention of the potter's wheel is a development which generally accompanied a certain form of mass-production. It enabled standardisation and the rapid production of finished vessels.\" According to her, this development can clearly be traced back to the mass-produced conical bowls of the Mesopotamian Uruk culture at Habuba Kabira.\n\nIn production, first, a large clay cone was shaped on the disc. The peak of the cone was the actual point of rotation, around which the bowl was to be formed. It was then sliced off with a wire or a cord. The resulting bowls had a relatively thick wall near the base and marks from rotation and pulling on the underside of the base. Christiana Köhler detected such marks on vessels of the predynastic period, which makes it fairly likely that the slow potter's wheel was in use in this period.\n\nIt is assumed that baking pans for conical bread were made with the help of a mold. It is possible that they were shaped around a conical wooden core, which had the shape of the conical bread which would eventually be baked in the pans.\n\nManufacture on the fast potter's wheel, operated by an assistant or the foot of the potter was a relatively late development, which took place in the New Kingdom at the earliest. The earliest depiction comes from the Tomb of Kenamun from the middle of the Eighteenth dynasty, in which an assistant grips the wheel and thereby helps the potter to use the wheel, while the potter himself uses his foot to stabilise it.\n\nThe shaped vessel first had to be dried enough that the walls would be stable for further work. The clay was brought to roughly the consistency of leather, remaining damp enough that it could still be moulded and shaped. At this point paint, glaze and slip could be added if desired. After further drying the vessel was polished. There were two techniques for polishing the vessel's surface:\n\nAt this stage, impressions or incisions could also be made in the clay, \"when the clay was still damp enough that it would not break in the process, but was dry enough that no raised areas would be left in the incisions.\" This was done with various tools, including bone or wooden nails, combs made from bone or shellfish, and flint knives.\n\nAfter an initial drying phase, the round base was finished. This was done by hand until the seventeenth dynasty, using a flat tool to cut and smooth the base. A foot was also cut by hand, or molded from an additional lump of clay. After the beginning of the seventeenth dynasty, the foot was instead made on the potter's wheel from the mass of clay used for the creation of the base of the vessel. At this point, bases and stands increasingly have rotation marks on the outside.\n\nIn the drying process, the vessel had to be kept under controlled conditions, such that all parts of the vessel dried equally and no shrinking took place. In this process, a lot of water had to evaporate, since the remaining water would boil at the beginning of the firing process, \"which led the water vapour to expand in volume, leading to explosions if it could not escape.\n\nThe vessel was left to dry in direct sunlight when the light was weak, in the shade when it was strong, or in a closed room when it was raining or cold. The drying process could take several days, depending on the humidity, the size, wall-thickness, and porosity of the vessel. Even when drying was complete, vessels remained between 3-5% saturated with water, which was only expelled during the firing process.\n\nIn the firing process, the clay is transformed from a malleable material to a rigid one. Up to this point it is possible to make the clay malleable again by making it wet. After firing, damaged vessels, like misfirings, are nearly unfixable.\n\nIn order for the transformation of the clay into this final and moisture-less form, it must be heated to a temperature of 550-600 °C. Before this, at around 100 °C, residual moisture escapes into the air and at 300 °C the chemically-bonded water of crystallization also escapes. The supply of oxygen during the firing process is critical, since it is used up as the fuel is burnt. If more is not supplied (e.g. through a vent), an atmosphere rich in carbon monoxide or free carbon will develop and it will create a black or brown-black Iron(II) oxide, which gives the fired pottery a grey or dark brown colour. This is called a reducing firing. In an oxidating firing by contrast, a continuous supply of oxygen is maintained. The iron in the clay absorbs oxygen and becomes the red or red-brown Iron(III) oxide. The resulting pottery has a red-brown colour.\n\nThe simplest and earliest firing method is the open fire. The vessel to be fired is covered and filled with flammable material. It is placed on the a flat piece of ground, surrounded by a low wall, or put in a pit. During the firing process, the potter has relatively little control. The vessel is in direct contact with the flames and the fuel, which heats quickly and then cools down again quickly.\n\nOptimisation of the firing process became possible once the pottery was placed inside a chamber with a vent and separated from the fuel of the fire, i.e. a kiln. This technological leap was made in the early Old Kingdom at the latest, but possibly in the early dynastic or late predynastic period.\n\nThe simplest form of a kiln was a shaft with no separation of the area where the fuel was burnt from the chamber where the ceramics were placed. This could be loaded through a shaft and then set on fire through an opening on the ground. This opening enabled a continuous supply of oxygen, which could be used to create an oxidising atmosphere. The oven now had to reach a set firing temperature in order to heat the clay in the firing chamber. As a result, the fire lasted longer and burnt more consistently.\n\nThe next technological advance was the introduction of a grating, which separated the fuel from the pottery being fired. This prevented smoky flames and carbonised fuel from coming in contact with the ceramics and leaving flecks and smudges on it. The vessels being fired were placed in the upper part, with the opening underneath. The hot air rose up to the vessels and circulated around them, indirectly firing the clay. Shaft ovens of this type, with a grating, are attested in Egyptian art and by archaeology from the Old Kingdom onwards.\n\nEgyptian potters employed a broad range of decorative techniques and motifs, many of which are characteristic of specific periods. There are three points in the manufacturing process in which decoration could be added: before, during, or after the firing process.\n\nSince the predynastic period, potters added decorative elements in the molding stage, creating unusual shapes or imitating other materials, like basketwork, metal, wood or stone. The majority of the 'fancy features' were created during the process of shaping the vessel and smoothing its surfaces, long before it was fired. The elements were either shaped from a piece of clay by hand or impressed into the clay while it was still malleable - often causing fingerprints to be left on the inside of the vessel. In figural vessels, these were often parts of a human or animal body, or the face of the god Bes or the goddess Hathor. It was also common to cut out parts of the vessel in order to imitate another type of material.\n\nEven in the earliest Egyptian pottery, produced by an early phase of the Merimde culture, there are incised decorations like the herringbone pattern. In this technique, the surface of the pot was scratched with a sharp instrument, like a twig, knif, nail, or fingernail before it was fired.\n\nPots fired in a firing pit often have a black upper rim. These black rims were increasingly a decorative feature, which required technical knowledge to produce consistently. In combination with a dark-red colour and polish, this \"black-topped\" ware was one of the most fashionable and popular types of pottery. The black colour was a result of carbonisation, created by the introduction of smoke particles to the oven during the firing process for example. Some aspects of this special process are still unclear.\n\nPainted decoration could be added with a brush before or after firing. For specific patters, paint might be sprayed on the surface of a vessel, or it might be dipped in the paint. There are eight major types of painted pottery from ancient Egypt:\n\nIn Egyptology, the term 'pottery' is used to refer to all non-figural objects made from fired clay. The majority of pottery vessels surely served as household wares and were used for the storage, preparation, transport and consumption of food and other raw materials. In addition to this, there were other objects frequently used in the household, like bread moulds, fireboxes, lamps and stands for vessels with round bases. Other types of pottery served ritual purposes. Sometimes water pipes were constructed from amphorae laid back-to-back, but actual ceramic water pipes were only introduced in the Roman period. Musical instruments, like rattles, could also be made from ceramics, in the form of bottles filled with pebbles and then sealed before being fired.\n\nEvidence for the function of individual pottery types is given by depictions in tombs, textual descriptions, their shape and design, remains of their contents, and the archaeological context in which they are found. In tombs, pottery is often only sketched out schematically. Nevertheless, in some cases it is possible to identify the function of a vessel based on depictions in tombs. Examples include bread molds, spinning weights, and beer jugs. The shapes of beer jugs make it possible to link them with scenes of beer manufacture, such as the Mastaba of Ti: they are ovoid, round-bodied bottles, often with weakly defined lips, which are generally roughly shaped and are made of clay with a lot of organic matter mixed in.\n\nInscriptions giving the contents of the vessel are not unusual in the New Kingdom. As a result, wine jugs and fish kettles can be identified, although wine jugs were also used for other raw materials, like oil and honey. One of the largest finds of inscribed wine vessels came from the tomb of Tutankhamun (KV62). The inscriptions on the 26 inscribed wine jugs provide more information about the wine they contain than most modern wine labels. The year of the lees was recorded in the king's regnal years. The quality, the origin of the grapes, the owner of the winery, and the name of the vintner who was responsible for the actual product were all recorded. (See also ).\n\nThe vessels themselves provide evidence for their purpose, for example by the type of clay used, the treatment of the outer surface, and the shape of the vessel. Among the significant factors, is whether porosity was desirable or not. Thus, in modern water jugs like \"zirs\" and \"gullas\", the water seeps through the walls, so that the contents can be cooled through evaporation. This effect can be best achieved with a bright clay or coating. Thus, Christiana Köhler in her study of the Early dynastic pottery from Buto was able to identify bottles or jugs with a white coating or light, large-grained marl clay, as water containers. An opposite effect could be created with a dark overcoat. By this, the pores of the outer surface were filled and the walls of the vessel were made impermeable to liquids. This made a vessel low-maintenance and hygienic, since no low-grade food residue would sick to the walls of the vessel. This can be seen, since no drink and food trays and plates can be detected.\n\nThe place of the ceramic industry in the wider social and economic context of ancient Egyptian society has been treated only cursorily in research to date.\n\nTomb decorations and pottery models provide only a few pieces of evidence for the context of pottery production. Depictions from the Old Kingdom are closely linked with brewery and bakery scenes (although these are also depicted separately at times). This indicates that pottery production was an independent part of food production. However, the inhabitants of tombs desired food and drink in the afterlife, not empty vessels.\n\nModels of pottery workshops from the First Intermediate period and the Middle Kingdom give only a little indication of where the production took place. In all cases they are depicted in the open air - sometimes in a courtyard. More information is offered by the Middle Kingdom scenes in the tombs at Beni Hasan. Here pottery production is shown taking place alongside other crafts, like carpentry, metal-working, textile production, and the manufacturing of stone vases - and much less frequently with food production. This trend continues in the only depictions we have from the New Kingdom, in the tomb of Kenamun in Thebes.\n\nThe models only ever show one or two men at work, which might indicate that production was carried out on a small scale. In almost all depictions, the works are male. There are a few examples from the Old Kingdom of women participating in the production process, e.g. helping to load the kiln. Little is known about the individual workers, but they were surely of low social status. That they were not part of higher society is also indicated by the absence of epigraphic evidence for this vocation. This is also illustrated by the \"Satire of the Occupations\":\n\nOn the other hand, pottery production had an important place in Egyptian culture. As part of everyday life it belonged to a level where perfection did not matter. From that point of view it was less about social stratification than about a stratification of the value which people attach to things. It would therefore be wrong to say that Egyptian potters were despised. There was a strong sense that the process was a creative one. Thus, the word for 'potter' (\"qd\") is the same one used for 'building' walls and structures. Even the activities of creator gods were depicted using the image of the potter. The ram-headed creator god Khnum was shown creating gods, men, animals and plants on the potter's wheel. This suggests high esteem for ceramic production.\n\nStephan Seidlmayer investigated the social and organisational circumstances of pottery production in the transitional period from the Old Kingdom to the Middle Kingdom, asking how the archaeological evidence can be connected to the image of the historical situation which we have built up from other sources. He concludes that the economic situation in the Old Kingdom favoured a centralised, standardised, and specialised production in great quantities, using complicated procedures. The organisational capacity of the state enabled focused production with high-quality pottery suitable for storage and transport in the context of the extensive distribution of goods by a centralised system. In the late Old Kingdom and the First Intermediate period, the centralised system deteriorated. It was replaced by decentralised production in small quantities for the circulation of goods within relatively small areas. In order to achieve high output, it was necessary to compromise on the quality of the wares. The profound transformation of the archaeological material indicates the extent of the social transformation which affected the whole cultural system at this time.\n\nE. Christiana Köhler has shown that non-industrial system of pottery production, based in individual households, developed in late predynastic Buto in particular, as a result of the unfavourable climatic conditions of the Nile delta. At the same time, specialisation can already be seen in pottery production in the late Naqada I and early Naqada II cultures in Upper Egypt, where the typical pottery found in settlements is a simple, tempered, weak Nile-clay pottery (\"Rough ware\"). However, the typical red ware for cemeteries, the \"Red-polished\" and \"Black-topped\" ware, was made entirely differently: \"whereas the rough ware of the settlements was fired at only c. 500-800 °C, temperatures of up to 1000 °C were used for the red wares.\" Although the red ware had a fine-grained, thick fabric, it was only occasionally tempered and it required a controlled firing process. This situation suggests that two different systems of manufacture already existed: a professional, specialised industry making funerary pottery and household production of rough wares.\n\nThe environment of Upper Egypt seems to have been more conducive to specialised pottery production. In densely settled areas like Hierakonpolis and Naqada, there was also heavy demand for pottery. \"In the course of Naqada II, a society developed in Upper Egypt which placed significant value in their burials and the grave goods that they included in them, so that the demand for high-value pottery quickly increased.\" Only for funerary pottery does there seem to have been any demand for professional pottery, since the fine wares are regularly found in graves and very rarely in settlement contexts.\n\nThe best archaeological evidence for pottery production is provided by kilns:\n\nVarious methods have been developed in archaeology for the classification of Egyptian pottery. The most important is called the Vienna system. This system is based on the following terms:\n\n\nThe 'Vienna System' is a classification system for Egyptian pottery, which was developed by Dorothea Arnold, Manfred Bietak, Janine Bourriau, Helen and Jean Jacquet and Hans-Åke Nordström at a conference in Vienna in 1980. All of them brought sherds from their own excavations which formed the basis for the classification system, with a few exceptions. As a result, the system is mainly based on find spots of the 'classic' periods and regions of Egypt. According to the group who developed it, the system was only intended as a departure point, a guide for the description of pottery. The classification of the various wares is based on the measurement of the size of the organic and non-organic components of the pottery fabric.\n\nThe components are divided into three groups according to their size. Mineral particles like sand and limestone are classified as fine (60-250 μm), medium (250-500 μm), and large (larger than 500 μm), while straw is categorised as fine (smaller than 2 mm), medium (2–5 mm), and large (over 5 mm). The meaningfulness of the system is limited somewhat by the caprice of the potter and a degree of accident during manufacture. The system also provides various criteria for the subdivision of Nile clay and marl clay, \"thus the marl clay consists of naturally occurring geological groupings, but with Nile clay the different mixtures were created artificially.\" The system does not take account of surface treatment. The system is only of limited use for predynastic pottery and pottery that post-dates the New Kingdom. This shows the uncertain state of published research on these periods and the large variation in technique, distribution and raw material which occurred in both of these periods.\n\nThe fabric consists of a fine, homogeneous clay and a significant proportion of loam. Components are fine sand, a conspicuous amount of medium-grained sand and occasionally large grains of sand. Mica also occurs. Small amounts of tiny straw particles can occur, but they are not typical of this form. The quantity of clay and loam and the fine particles suggests that the sand is a natural component, not an addition for tempering.\n\nNile clay B is subdivided into B1 and B2:\n\nThis material consists of muddy clay with rough or smooth grains of sand which can vary from fine to large and in frequency from seldom to often. Additives like limestone and other minerals, such as mica, crushed sherds of pottery and medium-grained stone particles, can occur. Straw is the dominant additive and is often visible in incisions and on the surface. These straw particles range from fine to large, with a large amount of large particles (over 5 mm). The straw is preserved as charred particles, appearing as white or grey silica and as impressions in the paste. Nile clay C occurs in all periods and regions, and includes a wide variety of variants.\n\nThe main sign of Nile clay D is the conspicuous quantity of limestone, which might be either a natural component or a tempering additive. Without this visible limestone component, this type of clay would be classified differently, as Nile clay A (at Tell el-Dab'a), lightly fired Nile clay B (at Dahshur), or as Nile clay B2 - C (at Memphis).\n\nThis clay consists of a large amount of rounded sand particles, ranging from fine to large grains, which are clearly visible on the surface and in fractures. Aside from these diagnostic components, the fabric can look characteristic of Nile clay B or Nile clay C. Nile clay E has so far only been identified in a few locations: in the eastern Delta (Tell el-Dab’a and Qantir) and the region of Memphis and the southern Fayyum.\n\nThis group is divided into four variants. The shared characteristics of Marl clay A are its compact and homogeneous fabric, the fine mineral components and very low proportion of organic substances.\n\nThe fabric is homogeneous and very thick. The diagnostic feature of the fabric is its high sand content, which makes up roughly 40% of the paste and was added as temper. The particles range from angular to vaguely rounded and from fine to large. As in Marl clay A4, limestone additives are visible under magnification, appearing as a calcareous material in the clay's fabric at 45x magnification. Marl clay B was mainly used for large and mid-sized vessels and seems to be very restricted in space and time, to the Second Intermediate period and New Kingdom in Upper Egypt.\n\nThis group is divided into three types. The shared feature of all three is the presence of numerous limestone particles, more or less ground down, which range from medium to large in size, and give the material a sparkly appearance. The fabric itself is fine and thick. Fine and medium sand particles, added as temper, are also encountered, as well as light and dark mica.\n\nThe fabric is fine and homogeneous. The characteristic feature is the limestion particles, which were probably added as temper. They are smaller than those in Marl clay C and vary from fine to large in size, forming around 25% of the material (which is less than the limestone temper of Marl clay C). Fine and large-grained sand, black mica, and dark stone are also added as temper. Organic additives are very rare. The surface is notably sandy to the touch. This type of clay was very widespread in the Delta and the Memphis-Fayyum region in the 18th and 19th dynasties and seems to appear in the south only as imports from the north.\n\nThe combination is similar to that in Marl clay B, with the exception of the visible mid-to-large particles of straw, which were added as temper. Sand was also added (medium to large particles, 20-40% of the mass of the clay), as well as particles of mica. This type of clay is relatively rare, but is known in Memphis and Upper Egypt (Koptos and Deir el-Ballas), during the short period between the Second Intermediate Period and the early 18th dynasty. It was used mainly for thick-walled vessels, often hand-molded bread tablets. This suggests that the intentional addition of straw might have been connected with this special function.\n\nFor the predynastic pottery from Buto and Helwan, which only has limited overlap with the Vienna system, E. Christiana Köhler developed a typological code. These five-digit codes are based on various criteria, whereby each digit in the code refers to a particular aspect: \n\nPetrographic analysis has also proven useful as a complementary system of classification and analysis to that based on characteristics that are observable to the naked eye or a microscope. This technique examines thin slices of the ceramic material or of extracted mineral additives, in order to get further information on them. It can identify various mineral and organic additives. The structure and porosity of the ceramic material can be precisely measured. The original firing temperature can be determined. The origin of the clay can be identified. It also makes it possible to work out whether other particles in the clay arrived their naturally or were added as temper.\n\nAdditionally, chemical and mineralogical methods developed by archaeological science can be deployed to determine the composition of the clay. Such methods include:\n\n\nPottery seriation has proven useful for constructing an archaeological relative chronology for Egypt. This method was invented in 1899 by Flinders Petrie. In the late twentieth century, there has been an enormous increase in the studies of Egyptian pottery, with respect to the quantity of sherds which have been analysed (from a large number of different excavation sites) and the range of investigative techniques that are in use in order to get information out of pottery remains. As a result, the changes in the pottery types have become ever more accurately understood over time. For example, the shape of bread-molds changed drastically at the end of the Old Kingdom, but it is not clear whether this process resulted from social, economic or technological causes, or just fashion. Thus, there are many causes of the changes observed in material culture and only a few can be linked to political changes which dominate traditional perspectives on Egyptian history.\n\nOn the other hand, for example, links can be made between political and cultural changes and the changes in pottery from centralised production in the Old Kingdom to the revival of local pottery types during the politically decentralised First Intermediate period to the new unity in the reunified 12th dynasty. Through the study of pottery, along with other artifacts, it is possible to create a holistic narrative of Egyptian history, in which political developments are understood within the context of a long process of cultural change.\n\nW. M. Flinders Petrie was the first to attempt a pottery seriation (which he called a 'Sequence dating'), focused on the pottery of the Naqada culture. He published his first study of the relative chronology of the Naqada culture in 1899. His first 'predynastic' corpus was based on the excavations of necropoleis at Naqada, Deir el-Ballas, and Hu. Originally, he identified nine classes and over 700 pottery types. For this typology, he selected 900 intact graves containing five or more types, out of the over 4,000 graves that he had excavated. He produced an index card for each of them and attempted to place these index cards in order. He made two important observations:\n\nAfter Petre had arranged all his index cards, he divided them into 50 groups, each consisting of 18 tombs. He defined SD 30 as the starting point (numbered thus in order to give space for possible earlier cultures which had not then been discovered. He divided the 50 Sequence dates into three groups, which he classified as 'archaeological', 'cultural', and 'chronological', and named them after important find spots: Amratian (SD 30–37), Gerzean (SD 38–60) and Semainean (SD 60–75).\n\nPietre produced a second corpus of 'protodynastic' pottery, based principally on the finds in the necropolis in Tarchan. In this case, he identified 885 types, but no classes, which made it difficult for him to use this seriation. This second corpus partially overlapped with the earlier, 'predynastic corpus'. He started with SD 76 and continued to SD 86, with SD 83-86 remaining very theoretical, due to the shortage of material from the 2nd dynasty. This time, Petrie based the transition to a new 'sequence date' mainly on typological breaks, which Petrie defined on the basis of the development of the \"Wavy-handled\" types. He also linked the sequence dates with the historically dated pottery and objects from the royal graves of the early dynasties at Abydos.\n\nThere are some methodological issues with Petrie's classification:\n\nThe next person to undertake a relative chronology of the predynastic period was . He largely accepted Petrie's typology and used the necropolis 1400-1500 at Armant as his starting point. At the same time, Kaiser also paid attention to the horizontal divisions of the pottery record and if a period was not attested at Armant, he also used pottery from other cemeteries. He identified three broad zones in the cemetery, each of which was dominated by a specific group of pottery: \"Black-topped\", \"Rough wares\", and \"Late\" or \"Wavy-Handled wares\". Within each of these periods, he identified subdivisions, which he called \"stages\" (\"Stufen\"). These largely agreed with Petrie's divisions, but not entirely.\n\nThe following were the main stages, according to Kaiser:\n\n\nThere were still some problems with this chronology:\n\nSince the mid-1980s, Stan Hendrickx has extended and improved Werner Kaiser's model. He based his work on the principle of studying groups of graves as a unit (thus also respecting divisions of space within an individual cemetery), rather than just studying individual graves and their contents. As a result he faced a conflict between developing a tight relative chronology of all individual pottery types and defining chronologically indicative assemblages. He could not accept a higher priority being given to either of these criteria.\n\nBarry Kemp undertook a multi-dimensional analysis of the tombs in Necropolis B at el-Amrah and the Necropolis at el-Mahasna. These seriations were only used to evaluate Petrie's Sequence dating, not Kaiser's Stage-chronology.\n\nToby Wilkinson undertook a seriation of eight predynastic and early dynastic necropoleis, based on 1420 types from Petrie's corpus (out of a total of 1542), which he arranged into 141 groups. There were large problems with the newly defined groups, since they were very heterogenously defined. For example, the cylindrical vessels with and without incised decoration were placed in the same group, even though Kaiser had considered the presence of incision to be an important chronological indicator.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5838842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5838842", "title": "Aoidos", "text": "Aoidos\n\nThe Greek word aoidos () referred to a classical Greek singer. In modern Homeric scholarship \"aoidos\" is used by some as the technical term for a skilled oral epic poet in the tradition to which the \"Iliad\" and \"Odyssey\" are believed to belong (compare rhapsode).\n\nIn classical Greek the word \"aoidos\", \"singer\", is an agent noun derived from the verb \"aeidein\" () or \"adein\" (), \"to sing\". It occurs several times in varying forms in the \"Iliad\" and \"Odyssey\" in relation to poetry: \n\n\nIn the world described in these poems writing is practically unknown (though its use is implied in one minor episode, the story of Bellerophontes); all poetry is \"song\", and poets are \"singers\". Later, in the fifth and fourth centuries, the performance of epic poetry was called \"rhapsodia\", and its performer \"rhapsodos\", but the word does not occur in the early epics or in contemporary lyric poetry, so it is unknown whether Hesiod and the poet(s) of the \"Iliad\" and \"Odyssey\" would have considered themselves rhapsodes (it has been argued by Walter Burkert, and is accepted by some recent scholars, that \"rhapsodos\" was by definition a performer of a fixed, written text and not a creative oral poet). It is not even known to what extent the makers of oral epic poetry were specialists. Phemius and Demodocus, in the \"Odyssey\", are depicted performing non-epic as well as epic songs.\n\nThere was, however, certainly a profession of \"aoidos\". Eumaeus, a character in the \"Odyssey\", says that singers (\"aoidoi\"), healers, seers and craftsmen are likely to be welcomed as guests, while beggars are not; outside the world described by Homer, Hesiod gives a similar list in the form of a proverb on professional jealousy:\n\nAccording to the \"Iliad\" and \"Odyssey\" singers gained their inspiration from the Muses. Hesiod describes how the Muses visited him while he tended his sheep on Mount Helicon and granted him this inspiration, permitting him to sing of the future as well as the past. An anecdote in the \"Iliad\" about Thamyris shows that the Muses could take away what they had given. As in certain other cultures, blind men sometimes became singers: Demodocus in the \"Odyssey\" is blind, and the legendary creator of the \"Iliad\" and \"Odyssey\", Homer, was often said to have been blind.\n\nThe audience for performances by \"aoidoi\" varied depending on the genre and circumstances (see list above). Women participated in, and sometimes led, laments, according to the \"Iliad\". Many of the poems of Sappho are addressed to women and seem to assume an audience of women. For narrative (epic) poetry it is sometimes said that the audience was exclusively male; this is an exaggeration (for example, Penelope listens to, and interrupts, one performance depicted in the \"Odyssey\") but it is probably largely true owing to the seclusion of women in early Greece.\n\nIt has been shown from comparative study of orality that the \"Iliad\" and \"Odyssey\" (as well as the works of Hesiod) come from a tradition of oral epics. In oral narrative traditions there is no exact transmission of texts; rather, stories are transmitted from one generation to another by bards, who make use of formulas to aid in remembering vast numbers of lines. These poets were bearers of the early Greek oral epic tradition, but little is known of them. Whenever the writing took place (dates between 750 and 600 BC are most often proposed), any contemporary poets and writers who may have known of it did not notice the event or name the poet(s). According to classical Greek sources, Homer lived long before the two poems were written down.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7608056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7608056", "title": "Artistic director (music)", "text": "Artistic director (music)\n\nAn artistic director may refer to someone who directs a musical ensemble, and in this medium, is often abbreviated as simply Director. The typical jobs of a musical artistic director are to choose repertoire for the ensemble, come up with an artistic vision for the group and also a long-term strategy for programming, and also to help choose performers if the ensemble is not pre-set. An artistic director may also be—and often is—the conductor of the ensemble and a \"jack of all trades\", performing multiple roles and even managing the ensemble, although that role is often left to a Managing Director if financial resources are available. A musical artistic director essentially mirrors a theatrical artistic director, albeit working in a different medium.\n"}
{"id": "1957569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1957569", "title": "Associations in Ancient Rome", "text": "Associations in Ancient Rome\n\nIn ancient Rome, the principle of private association was recognized very early by the state. \"Sodalitates\" for religious purposes are mentioned in the XII Tables, and \"collegia opificum,\" or trade guilds, were believed to have been instituted by Numa Pompilius, which probably means that they were regulated by the \"jus divinum\" as being associated with particular cults.\n\nIt can be difficult to distinguish between the two words \"collegium\" and \"sodalitas\". \"Collegium\" is the wider of the two in meaning, and may be used for associations of all kinds, public and private, while \"sodalitas\" is more especially a union for the purpose of maintaining a cult. Both words indicate the permanence of the object undertaken by the association, while a \"societas\" is a temporary combination without strictly permanent duties.\n\nThe \"collegia opificum\" ascribed to Numa include guilds of weavers, fullers, dyers, shoemakers, doctors, teachers, painters, and other occupations, as listed by Ovid in the \"Fasti\". Ovid says they were in origin associated with the cult of Minerva, the goddess of handiwork. Plutarch mentions flute-players, who were connected with the cult of Jupiter on the Capitol, as well as guilds of smiths, goldsmiths, tanners.\n\nThough these guilds may not have had a religious purpose, like all early institutions they were associated with some religious cult, and in most cases the cult of Minerva. Almost all these \"collegia\" had their religious centre and business headquarters at her temple on the Aventine Hill. When a guild of poets was instituted during the Second Punic War, this too had its meeting-place in the same temple.\n\nThe purpose of the guild in each case was no doubt to protect and advance the interests of the trade, but little information for them exists until the age of Cicero, when they reappear in the form of political clubs (\"collegia sodalicia\" or \"compitalicia\") chiefly with the object of securing the election of candidates for magistracies. The political \"collegia\" were suppressed by a \"senatus consultum\" in 64 BC, revived by Clodius six years later, and finally abolished by Julius Caesar, as dangerous to public order.\n\nThe principle of the trade guild reasserts itself under the Empire, and is found at work in Rome and in every municipal town. Though the right of permitting such associations belonged to the government, these trade guilds were recognized by the state as being instituted \"ut necessariam operam publicis utilitatibus exhiberent\" (\"so that they might perform the necessary work of public 'utilities',\" or useful public works).\n\nEvery kind of trade and business throughout the Empire seems to have had its \"collegium,\" as is shown by the inscriptions collected in the \"Corpus Inscriptionum Latinarum\" from any Roman municipal town. These inscriptions provide important evidence for the life and work of the lower orders of the \"municipales\". The primary object was no doubt still to protect the trade, but as time went on they tended to become associations for feasting and enjoyment, and more and more to depend on the munificence of patrons elected with the object of eliciting it. How far they formed a basis or example for the guilds of the early Middle Ages is a difficult question (see Guild). Eventually, the trade associations supported the individual, lost as he was in the vast desert of the empire, some little society and enjoyment in life, and the certainty of funeral rites and a permanent memorial after death.\n\nAssociations formed for the maintenance of religious cults were usually called \"sodalitates,\" though the word \"collegium\" was also used for them, as in the case of the college of the Arval Brothers. Of the ancient \"Sodales Titii\" nothing is known until they were revived by Augustus; it may have been that when a \"gens\" or family charged with the maintenance of a particular cult had died out, its place was supplied by a \"sodalitas\".\n\nThe introduction of new cults also led to the institution of new associations. In 495 BC when the worship of Minerva was introduced, a \"collegium mercatorum\" was founded to maintain it, which held its feast on the \"dies natalis\" (dedication day) of the temple. In 387 the \"ludi Capitolini\" were placed under the care of a similar association of dwellers on the Capitoline Hill. In 204 BC when the \"Magna Mater\" (Great Mother, or Cybele) was introduced from Pessinus, a \"sodalitas\" was instituted which, as Cicero notes, used to feast together during the \"ludi Megalenses.\"\n\nAll such associations were duly licensed by the state, which at all times was vigilant in forbidding the maintenance of any which it deemed dangerous for religious or political reasons. In 186 BC the senate, by a decree of which part is preserved., made all combination for promoting the Bacchic religious rites strictly illegal. Legal \"sodalitates\" are frequent later; the temple of Venus Genetrix, begun by Julius Caesar and finished by Augustus, had its \"collegium\". \"Sodalilates\" were instituted for the cult of the deified emperors such as Augustus (see Augustales) and Claudius.\n\nSecuring a proper burial was one motive for a working class person to belong to a trade guild. In the year 133 under Hadrian, the formation of \"collegia\" specifically for this purpose was recognized by law, preserved at the head of the regulations of a \"collegium\" instituted for the worship of Diana and Antinous at Lanuvium. According to the \"Digest\" (47. 22), this was a general law allowing the founding of funerary associations, as long as the law against illicit \"collegia\" was complied with. The inscription of Lanuvium, together with many others, indicates that heir members were as a rule of the humblest classes of society, and often included slaves. Each member paid an entrance fee and a monthly subscription, and a funeral grant was made to his heir upon death in order to bury him in the burying-place of the college, or if they were too poor to construct one of their own, to secure burial in a public columbarium.\n\nThese colleges were organized along the same lines as the municipal towns of the empire. Their officers were elected, usually for a year, or in the case of honorary distinctions, for life. As in a municipal town, they held titles such as \"quinquennales, curatores,\" and \"praefecti.\" Quaestors superintended the finances of the association. Their place of meeting, if they were rich enough to have one, was called \"schola\" and was like a clubhouse. The site or the building was often given them by some rich patron, who was pleased to see his name engraved over its doorway.\n\nThe \"patroni\" increased in number, and more and more the colleges acquired the habit of depending on their benefactions. The inscriptions provide no evidence of whether the \"collegia\" also provided assistance to sick or infirm members. The only exceptions seem to be the military \"collegia\", which, though strictly forbidden as dangerous to discipline, continued to increase in number in spite of the law. Inscriptions from the great legionary camps of the Roman province of Africa show not only the existence of these clubs, but the way in which their funds were spent. It appears that they were applied to useful purposes in the life of a member as well as for his burial, e.g. to traveling expenses, or to his support after his discharge.\n\nAs the Roman Empire became gradually impoverished and depopulated, and as the difficulty of defending its frontiers increased, these associations must have been slowly extinguished. The sudden invasion of Dacia by barbarians in AD 166 was followed by the extinction of one \"collegium\" which has left a record of the fact, and probably by many others. The master of the college of Jupiter Cernenius, with the two quaestors and seven witnesses, attest the fact that the college has ceased to exist: \"The accounts have been wound up, and no balance is left in the chest. For a long time no member has attended on the days fixed for meetings, and no subscriptions have been paid.\n\nIn addition to the works cited below, see Mommsen, \"De Collegiis et Sodaliciis\" (1843), which laid the foundation for all subsequent study of the subject; Marquardt, \"Staatsverwaltung,\" iii. 134 foIl.; de Marchi, \"Il culto privato di Roma antica,\" ii. 75 foll.; Kornemann, s. v. \"Collegium\" in Pauly-Wissowa, \"Realencyclopädie.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "5612336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5612336", "title": "Blanchard's transsexualism typology", "text": "Blanchard's transsexualism typology\n\nBlanchard's transsexualism typology, also Blanchard autogynephilia theory and Blanchard's taxonomy, is a psychological typology of male-to-female (MtF) transsexualism created by Ray Blanchard through the 1980s and 1990s, building on the work of his colleague, Kurt Freund. Blanchard divided trans women into two different groups: \"homosexual transsexuals\", who Blanchard says seek sex reassignment surgery because they are feminine in both behavior and appearance, and to romantically and sexually attract (ideally heterosexual) men, and \"autogynephilic transsexuals\" who purportedly are sexually aroused at the idea of having a female body. Blanchard's model is unusual in that neither groups are considered \"false transsexuals\"; both autogynephilic and homosexual transsexuals are thought to benefit from transition. This distinction is a recurring theme in scholarly literature on transsexualism.\n\nSupporters of the theory include sexual behavior scientists J. Michael Bailey, James Cantor, Alice Dreger, and some openly transgender health care providers, Anne Lawrence and Maxine Peterson, and others who say that there are significant differences between the two proposed groups, including sexuality, age of transition, ethnicity, IQ, fetishism, and quality of adjustment. Criticism of the research and theory has come from trans activists, including developmental biology researcher Julia Serano, Jaimie Veale, Larry Nuttbrock, and some physicians, including Charles Allen Moser and John Bancroft, and others who say that the theory is poorly representative of trans women.\n\nIn the transgender community, the theory has been the subject of controversy, which peaked with the publication of Bailey's \"The Man Who Would Be Queen\" in 2003.\n\nThe early history of the study of transsexualism is sparse; however, the concept of a categorization of transsexual people can be seen as early as 1923 with the work of Magnus Hirschfeld. In 1966, Harry Benjamin wrote that researchers of his day thought that attraction to men, while feeling that oneself is a woman, was the factor that distinguished a transvestite from a transsexual. In 1980 in the DSM-III, a new diagnosis was introduced, that of \"302.5 Transsexualism\" under \"Other Psychosexual Disorders\". This was an attempt to provide a diagnostic category for gender identity disorders. The diagnostic category, \"transsexualism\", was for gender dysphoric individuals who demonstrated at least two years of continuous interest in transforming their physical and social gender status. The subtypes were asexual, homosexual (same \"biological sex\"), heterosexual (other \"biological sex\") and unspecified. This was removed in the DSM-IV, in which gender identity disorder replaced transsexualism. Previous taxonomies, or systems of categorization, used the terms \"classic transsexual\" or \"true transsexual\", terms once used in differential diagnoses.\n\nThe clinical literature of Freund, Blanchard, and others has consistently divided male-to-female transsexuals into two distinct groups - \"homosexual transsexuals,\" people who are sexually attracted to (ideally heterosexual) men and supposedly desire a normative female body to attract them, and \"heterosexual fetishistic transvestites\" in which the transsexual purportedly finds the idea of having a normative female body sexually arousing but desires a heterosexual female partner. Kurt Freund first distinguished between these two proposed types in a 1982 research article, theorizing that the \"homosexual\" transsexuals were qualitatively different from the so-called \"heterosexual males\" with gender dysphoria. Sexologist Ray Blanchard coined the term \"autogynephilia\" in 1989 to describe this latter category of people. He stated that while they lacked a specific term to describe the concept, there was evidence for the concept among clinicians of the early 20th century. Havelock Ellis used the terms \"eonism\" and \"sexo-aesthetic inversion\" in 1913 to describe similar cross-gender feelings and behaviors. In a 2005 article on the concept by Ray Blanchard noted that Freund was probably the first author to distinguish between the erotic arousal due to dressing as a woman (transvestism) versus erotic arousal due to physically transforming into a more typically female form (autogynephilia).\n\nBlanchard's observations at the Clarke Institute began by categorizing male-to-female transsexuals into four groups based off their supposed sexual orientations: \"homosexual,\" \"heterosexual,\" bisexual, and analloerotics (i.e. trans women attracted to men, women, both, or neither, respectively.) Blanchard then conducted a series of studies on people assigned male at birth with gender dysphoria, including male-to-female transsexual people, and concluded that there existed only two distinct types. Blanchard said that one type of gender dysphoria/transsexualism manifests itself in individuals who are exclusively attracted to men (Homosexual transsexuals averaged a Kinsey scale measurement of 5-6 and six is the maximum, or a 9.86±2.37 on the Modified Androphilia Scale), whom he referred to as \"homosexual transsexuals\", adopting Freund's terminology. The other type he defined as including those who are attracted to females (gynephilic), attracted to both males and females (bisexual), and attracted to neither males nor females (\"analloerotic\" or asexual); Blanchard referred to this latter set collectively as the \"non-homosexual transsexuals\". Blanchard says that the \"non-homosexual\" transsexuals (but not the \"homosexual\" transsexuals) exhibit \"autogynephilia\", which he defined as a paraphilic interest in having female anatomy.\n\nStudies usually find that some number of non-homosexual transsexual report having no autogynephilia. When developing the typology, Blanchard found that gynephilic gender identity patients who reported never experiencing arousal to crossdressing were still measurably aroused by autogynephilic stimuli, and that autogynephilia among non-androphilic trans women was negatively associated with tendency to color their narrative to be more socially acceptable. This led Blanchard to conclude that non-homosexual trans women who reported no autogynephilic interests were misrepresenting their stories. This conclusion has been criticized for being unfalsifiable and for being based on an incorrect way of measuring autogynephilia.\n\nWithin the typology, sexual orientation terms are usually used relative to biological sex. That is, \"homosexual\" refers to those attracted exclusively to men, while \"non-homosexual\" refers to those who are attracted to other people than men or who are attracted to neither men nor women. \"Homosexual\" is used this way partly because of the scientific precedent. One of the types of transsexuals described within the theory is known as homosexual transsexuals. They are thought to be fundamentally the same phenomenon as the most feminine gay men. This similarity between homosexual transsexuals and homosexual men is also part of the reason why \"homosexual\" is used relative to biological sex.\n\nThe word \"autogynephilia\" refers to a propensity to be sexually aroused by the thought or image of one self as a woman. This paraphilia is related to transvestic fetishism.\n\nThe typology divides male-to-female transsexuals into two groups: homosexual and autogynephilic. Homosexual transsexuals are thought of as being extremely feminine gay men, while autogynephilic transsexuals are thought to be sexually attracted to the image of themselves as women. Attraction to the image of oneself as a woman is called \"autogynephilia\". The homosexual type corresponds to what is known as early-onset in other sources, while the autogynephilic type corresponds to what is known as late-onset in other sources. Homosexual transsexuals are proposed to be motivated by being very feminine in both behavior and appearance, and by a desire to romantically and sexually attract (ideally very masculine) men. Autogynephilic transsexuals are thought to be motivated by their sexual desire and romantic love for being women.\n\nHomosexual transsexuals are very feminine from a young age. According to Bailey and Zucker, non-transgender gay men are also often very feminine when young, but usually learn to live in a more masculine role when they grow up. They argue that homosexual transsexuals differ because they encounter early adversity that prevented them from defeminizing. Gay men find the femininity of homosexual transsexuals very unattractive, and the homosexual transsexuals themselves are very attracted to masculinity that they have trouble finding in gay men. As a result, homosexual transsexuals may be partially motivated by a desire to attract straight men.\n\nAutogynephiles have sexual fantasies about being women. These fantasies may focus on a variety of things associated with womanhood, such as anatomy, clothing or behavior. Blanchard found that the specific form the autogynephilia takes on correlates with the likelihood of transition.\n\nRay Blanchard conjectured that autogynephilia is a misdirected form of heterosexuality, with the attraction to women being redirected towards the self instead of others. These forms of erotic target location errors have also been observed with other base orientations than gynephilia, such as pedophilia, acrotomophilia and attraction to plush animals. Anne Lawrence argued that these phenomena provide further support for autogynephilia theory:I believe that the existence of these analogs of autogynephilic transsexualism calls into question the most influential biological and psychoanalytic theories of nonhomosexual MtF transsexualism, because such theories should also be able to account for these analogous phenomena but cannot easily do so. For example: It is plausible that hormonal abnormalities during prenatal development could result in a male-bodied person with a brain that had developed in a female-typical direction. It is less plausible that a prenatal developmental disturbance could result in a male-bodied person with a brain that had developed like that of an amputee or a plush animal. [...]I consider it more parsimonious to theorize that autogynephilic MtF transsexualism and the analogous conditions that exist in men who are sexually attracted to children, amputees, plush animals, and perhaps real animals, all represent manifestations of an unusual type of paraphilia in which affected men feel sexually aroused by the idea of impersonating or becoming whatever category of person or thing they find sexually attractive. Their paraphilic desires, in turn, often give rise to strongly held, highly valued alternative identities that ultimately become their dominant identities.Autopedophiles have been found to be more likely than other pedophiles to have considered whether they would be better off as a child, and more likely to have considered hormones or surgery to look more like a child.\n\nBy definition, autogynephilic transsexuals are autogynephilic while homosexual transsexuals are androphilic. However, a number of other differences between the types have been found. Under the theory, homosexual transsexuals are predicted to begin transitioning earlier in life, generally before turning 30, which accounts for their supposedly better adjustment. They are also more likely to come from poorer, non-white or immigrant backgrounds, have lower IQs, as well as be by definition exclusively attracted to men. Autogynephilic transsexuals are either attracted to women, exclusively or not, or asexual. They are also said under the theory to display more fetishistic or otherwise paraphilic arousal.\n\nAnne Lawrence has proposed that autogynephilic transsexuals are more excited about sexual reassignment surgery than homosexual transsexuals. She finds that homosexual transsexuals are typically ambivalent or indifferent about SRS, while autogynephilic transsexuals want to have surgery as quickly as possible, are happy to be rid of their penis, and proud of their new genitals. Michael Bailey argued that homosexual transsexuals are unlikely to transition if their appearance as women would be very unattractive.\n\nTranssexuals who are active on the internet and in transsexual support groups are overwhelmingly autogynephilic. The two kinds of transsexuals rarely interact with each other and don't show up in the same spaces.\n\n\"Autogynephilia\" (; from Greek αὐτό- (\"self\"), γυνή (\"woman\") and φιλία (\"love\") — \"love of oneself as a woman\") is a term coined in 1989 by Ray Blanchard, to refer to \"a man's paraphilic tendency to be sexually aroused by the thought or image of himself as a woman.\" Alternative terms proposed for this notion include \"automonosexuality\", \"eonism\", and \"sexo-aesthetic inversion\". The DSM-IV-TR includes an essentially equivalent definition, and recognizes autogynephilia as a common occurrence in the transvestic fetishism disorder, but does not classify autogynephilia as a disorder by itself. The paraphilias working group on DSM 5, which included Ray Blanchard, included autogynephilia and autoandrophilia as subtypes of transvestic disorder, a proposal that was opposed by the World Professional Association for Transgender Health (WPATH), stating the lack of empirical evidence for the theory.\n\nAutogynephilia is most notable for its use in Blanchard's taxonomy to explain the presence of gender dysphoria in \"non-homosexual\" (gynephilic) male-to-female transsexuals, in contrast to the gender dysphoria observed in \"homosexual\" (androphilic) transsexuals. Autogynephilia has also been suggested to pertain to romantic love as well as to sexual arousal patterns.\n\nBlanchard provides specific case examples to illustrate the autogynephilic sexual fantasies that people reported:\nPhilip was a 38-year-old professional man referred to the author's clinic for assessment...Philip began masturbating at puberty, which occurred at age 12 or 13. The earliest sexual fantasy he could recall was that of having a woman's body. When he masturbated, he would imagine that he was a nude woman lying alone in her bed. His mental imagery would focus on his breasts, his vagina, the softness of his skin, and so on—all the characteristic features of the female physique. This remained his favorite sexual fantasy throughout his life.\n\nAccording to Blanchard, \"An autogynephile does not necessarily become sexually aroused every time he pictures himself as female or engages in feminine behavior, any more than a heterosexual man automatically gets an erection whenever he sees an attractive woman. Thus, the concept of autogynephilia—like that of heterosexuality, homosexuality, or pedophilia—refers to a \"potential\" for sexual excitation\" [emphasis in original].\n\nBlanchard classified four subtypes of autogynephilic sexual fantasies, but noted that \"All four types of autogynephilia tend to occur in combination with other types rather than alone.\"\n\n\nOther authors have distinguished between behavioral autogynephilia and interpersonal gynephilia, with the latter being arousal to being seen or admired as a woman or having sex with men.\n\nThere also exist male assigned at birth people who report being sexually aroused by the image or idea of having \"some\" but not \"all\" normative female anatomy, such as having breasts but retaining their penis and testicles; Blanchard referred to this phenomenon as \"partial autogynephilia.\"\n\nAutogynephilia has been linked to attraction to transgender women. Autogynephilic men are usually attracted to women and not to men. It has been proposed that autogynephiles who report being attracted to men are instead experiencing pseudo-bisexuality or pseudo-androphilia, an interpersonal autogynephilic desire for men as part of the fantasy about being a woman.\n\nIn DSM-5, published in 2013, \"With autogynephilia\" (sexual arousal by thoughts, images of self as a female) is a specifier to 302.3 Transvestic disorder (intense sexual arousal from cross-dressing fantasies, urges or behaviors); the other specifier is \"With fetishism\" (sexual arousal to fabrics, materials or garments).\n\nBlanchard found that anatomic autogynephilia was more associated with gender dysphoria than transvestic autogynephilia. A different pattern was found in a sample of non-transgender autogynephilic men, where higher degrees of anatomic autogynephilia were associated with less gender dysphoria; here, it was instead interpersonal and physiological autogynephilia that predicted gender dysphoria. The men in this sample were significantly more gender dysphoric than the non-transgender male baseline.\n\nTwo studies have tested the possibility that cisgender women can also experience autogynephilia. Veale and colleagues (2008) found that an online sample of cisgender women commonly endorsed items on adapted versions of Blanchard's autogynephilia scales. Moser (2009) created an \"Autogynephilia Scale for Women\" based on items used to categorize MtF transsexuals as autogynephilic in other studies. A questionnaire that included the ASW was distributed to a sample of 51 professional women employed at an urban hospital; 29 completed questionnaires were returned for analysis. By the common definition of ever having erotic arousal to the thought or image of oneself as a woman, 93% of the respondents would be classified as autogynephilic. Using a more rigorous definition of \"frequent\" arousal to multiple items, 28% would be classified as autogynephilic. However, Anne Lawrence criticized these studies' methodology and conclusions and asserted that genuine autogynephilia occurs very rarely, if ever, in natal women.. Her comment was rebutted by Moser who said that she had made multiple errors by comparing the wrong items.\n\nOne case of anatomic autoandrophilia has been reported in an adult male.\n\nThe concept received attention when sex researcher and trans woman Anne Lawrence described it on her website in the late 1990s. In 2003, when Bailey published \"The Man Who Would Be Queen\", in which he based his portrayal of male-to-female transsexual people on Blanchard's taxonomy, an enormous controversy resulted.\n\nJaimie Veale gathered a convenience sample over the Internet of trans women's impressions of and opinions on Blanchard's typology. Of the people answering the survey, 52.5% had a negative response. Of the 170 respondents, 33 said the typology was too narrow and restrictive, 15 said it did not apply to their experiences, and 5 that the typology was driven by questionable motives such as \"to encourage 'elitist divisionism'.\" Other participants, however, said they did, in fact, experience autogynephilia.\n\nCriticism of the theory of \"homosexual transsexuals\" is generally focused in two categories: the use of the terms \"homosexual\" and \"non-homosexual\" to refer to MtF transsexuals by their assigned sex and the data underlying the theory itself. Harry Benjamin, in his seminal work \"The Transsexual Phenomenon\", opined that the question \"is a transsexual homosexual?\" had both \"yes\" and \"no\" answers depending on whether sexual anatomy or gender identity was prioritised, and in cases of post-operative male-to-female transsexuals, describing them as \"homosexual men\" was against \"common sense and reason\". The terminology has also been described as confusing and controversial among transsexuals seeking sexual reassignment, archaic, and demeaning. In 2008 sexologist John Bancroft expressed regret for having used this terminology, which was standard when he used it, to refer to transsexual women, and that he now tries to use words more sensitively.\n\nCharles Moser, a sexuality advocate, criticized Blanchard's theory, stating that it uses an overly-broad definition of autogynephilia, is not sufficiently relevant to MtF transsexual patients, fails to account for all information on sexual and romantic interests of homosexual and transsexual people, and lacks supporting data. Jaimie Veale, a psychology academic, published an alternative theory in 2010 which proposes that variances in gender identity are driven by personality and social factors which determine whether psychological defense mechanisms are employed to avoid or repress gender nonconformity, resulting in the later expression of this gender nonconformity.\n\nJulia Serano, a trans activist, wrote that there were flaws in Blanchard's original papers, including that they were conducted among overlapping populations primarily at the Clarke Institute in Toronto without nontranssexual controls, that the subtypes were not empirically derived but instead were \"begging the question that transsexuals fall into subtypes based on their sexual orientation,\" and that further research had found a non-deterministic correlation between cross-gender arousal and sexual orientation. She said that Blanchard did not discuss the idea that cross-gender arousal may be an effect, rather than a cause, of gender dysphoria, and that Blanchard assumed that correlation implied causation. Serano also stated that the wider idea of cross-gender arousal was affected by the prominence of sexual objectification of women, accounting for both a relative lack of cross-gender arousal in transsexual men and similar patterns of autogynephilic arousal in non-transsexual women. Serano criticised proponents of the theory, claiming that they dismiss non-autogynephilic, non-androphilic transsexuals as misreporting or lying while not questioning androphilic transsexuals, describing it as \"tantamount to hand-picking which evidence counts and which does not based upon how well it conforms to the model\", either making the theory unscientific due to its unfalsifiability, or invalid due to the nondeterministic correlation that later studies found. Further criticisms alleged that the theory undermined lived experience of transsexual women, contributed to pathologisation and sexualisation of transsexual women, and the literature itself fed into the stereotype of transsexuals as \"purposefully deceptive\", which could be used to justify discrimination and violence against transsexuals.\n\nT. M. Bettcher, based on her own experience as a trans woman, has critiqued the notion of \"autogynephilia,\" and \"target errors\" generally, within a framework of \"erotic structuralism,\" arguing that the notion conflates essential distinctions between \"source of attraction\" and \"erotic content,\" and \"(erotic) interest\" and \"(erotic) attraction,\" thus misinterpreting what she prefers to call, following Serano, \"female embodiment eroticism.\" She maintains that not only is \"an erotic interest in oneself as a gendered being,\" as she puts it, a non-pathological and indeed necessary component of regular sexual attraction to others, but within the framework of erotic structuralism, a \"misdirected\" attraction to oneself as postulated by Blanchard is outright nonsensical.\n\nAccording to Leavitt and Berger (1990), \"Transsexuals, as a group, vehemently oppose the homosexual transsexual label and its pejorative baggage (Morgan, 1978). As a rule, they are highly invested in a heterosexual life-style and are repulsed by notions of homosexual relations with males. Attention from males often serves to validate their feminine status.\"\n\nTrans man Aaron Devor wrote, \"If what we really mean to say is attracted to males, then say 'attracted to males' or androphilic... I see absolutely no reason to continue with language that people find offensive when there is perfectly serviceable, in fact better, language that is not offensive.\" Still other transsexual people are opposed to any and all models of diagnosis which allow medical professionals to prevent anyone from changing their sex, and seek their removal from the DSM.\n\nTrans activist Lynn Conway blogged extensively about the publication of Bailey's book by the United States National Academy of Sciences and along with other activists accused Bailey of misconduct. Northwestern University investigated Bailey, but did not reveal the findings of that investigation and did not comment on whether or not Bailey had been punished. According to a summary of the controversy written by Northwestern University bioethicist and historian Alice Dreger, the accusations were unfounded and comprised an attempt by those activists to silence Bailey for expressing views that contrasted with the public image they wanted. The accusations themselves did not hold up to scrutiny, according to Dreger's analysis. For example, two of the four transsexual women who accused Bailey of misusing their stories in the book were not actually mentioned in the book at all.\n\nDreger studied the reactions of trans activists and other controversies in her 2015 book \"Galileo's Middle Finger\". She argued that although the science appears correct that eroticism is behind the typology of transgenderism, activists in the trans community preferred the simpler narrative of literally being one sex trapped in the body of the other. Dreger says, \"Autogynephilia is perhaps best understood as a love that would really rather we didn’t speak its name\", in reference to the famous expression \"the love that dare not speak its name\" formerly used to refer to homosexuality or pederasty.\n\n"}
{"id": "30299269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30299269", "title": "CBI (film series)", "text": "CBI (film series)\n\nThe CBI film series is a series of four Malayalam films directed by K. Madhu and written by S. N. Swami featuring Mammootty as Sethurama Iyer, a Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI) officer. The series started off in 1988 with the block buster \"Oru CBI Diary Kurippu\".\n\nThe films depicts a team of three CBI officers led by Sethurama Iyer investigating into a murder case. All the films feature Mammootty as Sethurama Iyer. The other two members of the team vary in the series. All the four films so far released have \"Vikram\", the character played by Jagathy Sreekumar as a CBI officer. But he is not part of the three-men team in the third film but appears in the film for a short length. Chacko played by Mukesh appears in the first film but is not part of the team. But Chacko becomes part of the team from the second film onwards.\n\nThe lead character, Sethurama Iyer is said to have been inspired by a police officer named Radhavinod Raju, who in 2009 was appointed as the first chief of India's National Investigation Agency.\n\nThe production of the 5th movie of the series titled \"Black Investigators\" is under progress.\n\nThe background score of the series became quite popular. Years after the release of the first two sequels, the background score became popular as mobile phone ringtone. This was one of the reasons that led the filmmakers to plan a third sequel after 15 years. All the sequels use the same background score, composed by music director Shyam.\n\nThe films of the franchise are:\n\nCharacters that appear throughout the franchise:\n\nSethurama Iyer (Malayalam: സേതുരാമയ്യര്‍, alternate spelling \"Sethuramayyar\") is the main fictional character and the protagonist of the CBI film series. The character was played by Mammootty in the first four films. He is an investigative officer of the Central Bureau of Investigation (CBI), the Indian equivalent of the American Federal Bureau of Investigation. Iyer's popularity is attributed to the fact that he uses his brain rather than brawn to solve cases.\n"}
{"id": "49871909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49871909", "title": "Calligraffiti", "text": "Calligraffiti\n\nCalligraffiti is an art form that combines calligraphy, typography, and graffiti. It can be classified as either abstract expressionism or abstract vandalism. It is defined as a visual art that integrates letters into compositions that attempt to communicate a broader message through writing that has been aesthetically altered to move beyond the literal meaning. Simply put, it is the conscious effort of making a word or group of words into a visual composition. As such it is meant to be both an aesthetic experience and provocative art—mixing tradition and precision with modern unbridled self-expression.\n\nThe origins of the term, \"calligraffiti\" are unclear. The Dutch artist Niels Shoe Meulman is often incorrectly credited with coining the term in 2007, when he used it as the title of his solo exhibition. Muelman describes calligraffiti as \"traditional handwriting with a metropolitan attitude\" and a \"way of translating the art of the street to the interior of museums, galleries and apartments.\" In an interview he explains the technique itself as \"directness in the whole, finesse in the details. An even balance between seeing and reading word and image. … letters, writing and language itself becomes an image or abstraction. On the other hand, basic shapes and splats become language.\"' \n\nUse of the term, however, predates the contributions of Niels Shoe Meulman by at least thirty years. The Canadian painter, Brion Gysin used the term in his final exhibition, \"Calligraffiti of Fire\" held at the Galerie Samy Kinge in Paris between 19 April and 19 May in 1986 and the term was also used as the title of the book which accompanied Gysin's exhibition. The term was also used in a book about post-modernism, \"Spirits Hovering Over the Ashes: Legacies of Postmodern Theory\" by H.L. Hix in 1995.\n\nJordanian artist and art historian Wijdan Ali also used the term, \"calligraffiti\" in her book, \"Modern Islamic Art: Development and Continuity,\" (1997) to describe a style of art that had been flourishing across the Middle East and North Africa from the mid-20th century. She defined calligraffiti as the use of \"script of ordinary writing where the work is composed of the artist's personalised handwriting within a modern composition.\" Ali wanted to use the term because she saw this type of art as being inspired by calligraphy yet, also close to the scribbling of graffiti artists. Pioneer artists in this style include: Hassan Massoudy, Hossein Zenderoudi and Parviz Tanavoli. Ali locates calligraffiti art as a distinct style within the School of Calligraphic Art (also known as the Hurufiyya movement). \n\nCalligraffiti is distinguished from other styles of calligraphic art (such as \"Pure Calligraphy, Neoclassical, Modern Classical, Freeform, Abstract calligraphy, Calligraphic Combinations and Unconscious Calligraphy)\" in that it has no rules and artists require no formal training. Whereas, traditional calligraphy in the Islamic world is bound by very strict rules, not the least a prohibition on using representations of the human form in manuscripts, calligraffiti artists break free from such rules and allow themselves to reshape and deconstruct letters as well as to combine them with other symbols and figures in creative ways. Calligraffiti artists are not confined to the use of actual letters. Instead, they go beyond a simple transformation of Arabic or English-language words into visual compositions, and invent new languages. \n\nAli also makes a distinction between \"calligraffiti\" and \"pseudo-calligraffiti.\" Straight calligraffiti refers to the use of calligraphy without the rules of proportion while pseudo-calligraffiti is a total abstraction in which the letters may or may not be legible. \n\nThe practice of calligraffiti appears to have begun in the Middle East and North Africa in around the 1950s, when local artists, searching for a visual language that expressed their national identity and heritage, began incorporating Arabic letters, as a graphic form, into their artworks. Artists such as the Lebanese painter and poet, Etel Adnan (b. 1925); the Egyptian painter, Ramzi Moustafa (b. 1926) and the Iraqi painter-sculptor and philosopher, Shakir Hassan Al Said (b.1925) all searched for ways to use Arabic letters in abstract compositions. \n\nThe incidence of calligraffiti gathered momentum during the early 21st-century when Middle Eastern street artists co-opted urban spaces for calligraffiti art designed to convey political or provocative statements. This street art practice was especially conspicuous during the wave of uprisings between 2010 and 2013, that became known as the \"Arab Spring\" thereby bringing the art form to the attention of international audiences. Certain calligraffiti artists have credited the Middle Eastern calligraphy artists as an important influence on their work. For instance, the Tunisian calligraffiti artist, el Seed points to the work of Iraqi painter, Hassan Massoudy as a major source of inspiration, noting that \"The work of Hassan Massoudy was totally out of anything I’ve seen from the way he shapes the letters to the colors he uses. He completely revolutionized the art of calligraphy.” \n\nCalligraffiti is a complex process. Its specificity is in its paradoxical nature, as it is characterised by and composed of many elements that appear contradictory: \nIt requires an overall vision from the artist- from the message he is trying to convey, to the shape of the letters, to the larger picture he is creating. Calligraffiti artist, Tubs, explains that the art form’s graffiti component forces the artist to reflect upon and consciously create a piece that will arouse a specific feeling or reaction in the viewer. However, the use of the alphabet as an artistic medium demands practice, accuracy, and foresight.\n\nPart of what differentiates calligraffiti from calligraphy is its freedom from rules. Calligraphy is a meticulous and specific art that takes years to master. Most calligraffiti artists, like El Seed, do not consider themselves calligraphers because they do not know, nor do they follow the many rules of calligraphy. Calligraffiti on the other hand is characterized by its diversity of mediums, methods, and instruments. Each individual artist uses and sometimes designs his or her own tools.\n\nArabic calligraphy is incredibly rich; it is an art form that has been perfected for well over a millennium. Islamic tradition greatly encouraged the development of calligraphy as an art form in order to assist religion began to spread. Arabic writing represents the word of God revealed to Mohammed, which gives Arabic letters a special meaning. \n\nThe spread and evolution of calligraphy can be traced very specifically throughout Islamic history as it is inherently tied to the spread of Islam itself. Calligraphy was how scribes transcribed and created Qur'ans—allowing Mohammad's message to extend beyond the Arabian Peninsula. Calligraphy has always had a central role in Middle Eastern art because of Islamic restrictions concerning the portrayal of human beings. As a result, calligraphy became not only a mechanism for the expansion of Islam, but a way to create religious art.\n\nCalligraffiti has emerged quite forcefully in the Middle East in recent years, particularly in the wake of the Arab uprisings. While graffiti has never been widespread in the region, it has spread with the rising dissidence against Middle Eastern dictatorships and authoritarian regimes. Calligraphy artist Hassan Massoudy called Arabic calligraphy and graffiti \"two daughters of the same parents\" because of their interrelationship. He notes thtat \"Obviously [calligraphy and graffiti] both are about the use of letter and their alphabets, and their center of gravity is the beauty of writing. For both, a letter is more than just a letter and they fill them with emotions. The use of empty space and composition within this space is something else they have in common. Calligraffiti is a logical evolution of the two art forms coexisting in the same space.\n\nThe first step towards calligraffiti was the emergence of the abstract movement in the Middle East during the 20th century. Calligraphy was impacted by the abstract movement in the 1960s and 1970s with the introduction of the Hurufiyya movement in the Arab world and the Saqqa Khaneh movement in Iran. Hassan Massoudy, Hossein Zenderoudi and Parviz Tanavoli were some of the pioneers of this new era of calligraphy. The next two decades saw an initial explosion of graffiti in the context of the first Intifada and the Lebanese Civil War. Today, much calligraffiti is influenced by early Islamic script styles like siah mashq and Kufic. Artist and activist, Janet Kozak, characterizes calligraffiti artists in the Middle East as being \"not bound by the shackles of tradition, yet still indebted to it\" who use \"a unique blend of traditional scripts and design mixed with modern materials and techniques\".\n\nSelected works of calligraffiti artists\n\n\nCalligraffiti has been a way for artists in the Middle East to reclaim the region while still staying grounded in their culture and tradition. From the civil war in Beirut, to the Palestinian intifadas, to the Arab uprisings, calligraffiti has become a mechanism for social and political protest—where letters become symbols. One of the most salient characteristics of the Arab Spring has been the reappropriation of the public sphere and calligraffiti does just that. Calligraffiti is an urban art as much as it is a gallery art, and as such it has served as a tool to reclaim public spaces and impose the will and opinion of the people. Once an infrequent sight, graffiti and calligraffiti now adorn the walls of most major cities in the Middle East, representing the rising political and social tensions in the region. Despite most artists' claims that they are neither political or social actors, their art has inevitable impact—as Saudi artist Rana Jarbou said \"words are weapons\".\n\nMany calligraffiti artists contest the idea that their art is political. Askar insists his calligraffiti pieces in Palestine do not make him a political activist, he says \"I protest in colors, my activism consists of bringing art to the streets and allowing the public to express themselves\"; similarly, El Seed has said \"I don’t have any political agenda. I don’t believe in politics\". But by nature, calligraffiti is meant to express a message, and so it has unavoidable social and political consequences.\n\nProtesting political affairs has been the subject of much of the graffiti in the region, and calligraffiti has not escaped this. Much of the anonymous calligraffiti that emerged from the Arab Spring is deeply embedded in a political struggle. El Seed’s 2011 mural in Kairouan Tunisia, a poem by Abu al-Qasim al-Husayafi about tyranny and injustice, cannot be separated from the political context it was created in. Similarly, Askar’s piece entitled \"Palestine\" cannot be separated from the political weight the word \"Palestine\" holds; nor can his piece that says \"salaam\" (meaning peace), that is shaped like a key, escape the symbolism of the key in the Palestinian occupation. Anonymous calligraffiti on the Israeli wall in Bethlehem is inherently political because of its location.\n\nThe exhibit \"Contemporary Arabic Graffiti and Lettering\" explores how Calligraffiti creates a dialogue between the social and political sphere, by questioning dominant beliefs and ideologies. It does this by imposing itself on the religious and political debates by commandeering public spaces. Khadiga El Ghawas is one calligraffiti artist that does not shy away from the political messages of her art. She says \"My compositions touch upon issues that we currently face in Egypt whether that’s related to politics, religion or society\". Her work very explicitly deals with the political realities of Egypt, whether it is political Islam, democracy, or women's issues.\n\nCalligraffiti, as art, has the power to influence society and the people who are exposed to it. For example, it can be used to bring awareness to lost memories or forgotten moments in history. Inkman's USINA project decorates the forgotten limestone factory walls in Boukornine Tunisia to remind the world of those who struggled there and pay them respect. El Seed's Lost Walls project attempts to redirect the world and Tunisia's attention to the beauty of the country. His purpose was to create hope in Tunisia; that the people of the country could rediscover something positive and be proud of their culture in the midst of political turmoil. Lebanese artist Yazan Halwani says his art is means to \"write the stories of the city, on its own walls—creating a memory for the city\". The civil war created a deep fragmentation within the Lebanese society and a sense of amnesia that Halwani sought to fight against. His calligraffiti is meant to portray the city in a positive light, repair social ties and breathe life into a broken society. GhalamDAR, an Iranian artist, tries to reconnect Iranians to their country and culture. He often questions contemporary identity, philosophy, and history in Iran, which can be seen in his piece on the Iranian diaspora that features a headless deer. Calligraffiti has been a way for all of these artists to try and better the communities they live in.\n\nAnother way in which calligraffiti has impacted the social sphere is by engaging a discuss about contemporary issues and bringing people together. El Seed's calligraffiti on the Gabes mosque is a quotation from the Qur'an meant to address intolerance, specifically in regards to religion, art, and the growing Islamist movement in the world. The quote reads \"Oh humankind, we have created you from a male and a female and made people and tribes so you may know each other\"; it attempts to break stereotypes and opens a discussion around the place of art in Islam. After finishing his project \"Perception\" in Cairo, El Seed explained that he is \"questioning the level of judgment and misconception society can unconsciously have upon a community based on their differences\". El Seed has referred to himself as an \"artivist\", or an artist and an activist at the same time.\n\nMany calligrafitti artists use Arabic script or are heavily inspired by it. There has been a rise in Arabic calligraffiti outside the Middle East and by non Middle Eastern artists. Arabic calligraffiti has become a cosmopolitan art form. This can partially be attributed to the richness of Arabic calligraphy compared to other scripts. The use of Arabic calligraphy has been a typographic decision by many artists who seek to reinvent the aesthetic.\n\nThe widespread use of Arabic calligraphy outside the Middle East is often a result of political and social dynamics. Colonization and immigration has led to an identity crisis in many people, one the artist El Seed often talks about. He says his style developed from his struggle to fit in; the feeling that while he was not French, he was not fully Tunisian either. The legacy of colonization has created hybrid identities, especially in Europe, but has also allowed other cultures to be exposed to Middle Eastern cultures. As a result, artists like Julien Breton and L'atlas have adopted the Arabic script style. Artists like Aerosol Arabic or Haji Noor Deen turned to Arabic calligraffiti after they converted to Islam. Many artists use calligraffiti to reconnect with cultural and historical identities that they lost, or as a way to find a new identity.\n\nCalligraffiti is a relatively new term and graffiti is still taboo in parts of the Middle East and Asia, and as a result many calligraffiti artists are anonymous or rely on pseudonyms. Additionally, many calligraphers have created calligraffiti pieces, even though it is not their primary focus. In 2015, Niels Shoe Meulman created the Calligraffiti Ambassadors with the aim of expanding the movement and creating a community of calligraffiti artists. The group has already grown since its inception and includes artists from all over the world. They exhibited some of their work at the Affenfaust Gallery in Hamburg, Germany.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn addition to solo exhibitions of individual street artists such as \"Declarations\" by el-Seed, a number of group exhibitions, showcasing the social and political importance of calligraffiti have been mounted by prestigious art museums and galleries have mounted exhibitions dedicated to street art and calligraffiti. These include:\n\n\"Recurring exhibitions\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38939184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38939184", "title": "Chinese Dream", "text": "Chinese Dream\n\nThe Chinese Dream () is a term popularized after 2013 within Chinese society that describes a set of personal and national ethos and ideals in China and the Government of China. It is used by journalists, government officials, and activists to describe the role of the individual in Chinese society as well as the goals of the Chinese nation.\n\nThe phrase is closely associated with Xi Jinping, who is the General Secretary of the Communist Party of China (Paramount leader). Xi began promoting the phrase as a slogan in a high-profile visit to the National Museum of China in November 2012 after taking the office of general secretary. Since then, use of the phrase has become widespread in official announcements and the embodiment of the political ideology of the leadership under Xi Jinping. Xi said that young people should \"dare to dream, work assiduously to fulfill the dreams and contribute to the revitalization of the nation\". According to the party's theoretical journal \"Qiushi\", the Chinese Dream is about Chinese prosperity, collective effort, socialism, and national glory. The relationship between the phrase and the American Dream has been debated.\n\nThe phrase \"China Dream\" (中国梦), and the associated idea of a collective hope for restoring China's lost national greatness, have ancient origins in Chinese literary and intellectual history. In the Classic of Poetry (\"Shi Jing\"), the poem \"Flowing Spring\" (下泉) describes a poet waking up in despair after dreaming of the former Western Zhou dynasty. During the troubled Southern Song dynasty, the poet Zheng Sixiao wrote a poem in which he coined the phrase \"Heart full of [the] China Dream (中国梦), the ancient poem 'Flowing Spring.'\" Moreover, popular patriotic literary and theatrical works in early 20th century China also made reference to a \"China Dream,\" before the concept of the \"American Dream\" was invented in 1931.\n\nIn 2008, architect Neville Mars, author Adrian Hornsby, and the Dynamic City Foundation published \"The Chinese Dream – a society under construction\". The book investigates China's initial wave of rapid urbanization as it transitions to a socialist-market economy. Maps of the emerging spatial forms and analysis of the economic development processes that have originated within the extreme conditions of the 1980s and 1990s are combined with progressive planning concepts and personal portraits of a rapidly changing society. As such it synthesizes a body of research to tackle the main paradoxes at the heart of China's struggle for change and a more equitable and sustainable future.\n\nAccording to Mars, \"The present is so all-consuming that fast realities threaten to eclipse the slow dream of tomorrow.\" The overarching premise of the book is that China reveals a direct correlation between its shifting urban forms and its waning societal objectives. In that sense the book has arguably been prophetic. Written eight years ahead of the 12th FYP that holds the same thematic title \"The Chinese Dream\" () it introduces the notion that China's highly fragmented, sclerotic urban patterns determine a path of increasing inefficiency and energy-dependence. Mars introduces the term \"MUD\", or Market-driven Unintentional Development to describe this new hybrid urban condition, and suggests that planning itself needs to be radically redefined in order to be effective and not contribute to the extreme ex-urbanization. The conclusion of the book is \"No New Cities\" (杜绝新城), and a call for models of upgrading of existing urban centers and suburbs.\n\nIn 2010, author Helen H. Wang published her first book \"The Chinese Dream\". The book is based on over 100 interviews of the new members of the middle class in China. In the book, Wang did not define the Chinese Dream; rather, she conveyed the hopes and dreams of the Chinese people through intimate portraits of this growing demographic.\n\n\"The Chinese Dream\" has won Eric Hoffer Book Awards. In 2011, the book was translated into Chinese《中国梦》and published in China. In 2012, the second edition of \"The Chinese Dream\" with a foreword by Lord Wei was published. In the foreword, Wei wrote:\nIn September 2012, Helen H. Wang gave a copy of her book \"The Chinese Dream\" to Tom Friedman at a dinner in Shanghai hosted by Peggy Liu, chairwoman of Joint US-China Collaboration on Clean Energy (JUCCCE).\n\nThe British publication \"The Economist\" credits a column written by the American journalist Thomas Friedman for popularizing the term in China. A translation of Friedman's article, \"China Needs Its Own Dream\", published in \"The New York Times\" (October 2012) was widely popular in China. Friedman attributes the phrase to Peggy Liu, the founder of the environmentalist NGO JUCCCE. According to Friedman in the magazine \"Foreign Policy\", \"I only deserve part credit... the concept of 'China Dream' was created by my friend Peggy Liu, as the motto for her NGO about how to introduce Chinese to the concept of sustainability.\"\n\nJames Fallows of \"The Atlantic\" has pointed out that the phrase has frequently been used in the past by journalists. He mentions Deborah Fallow's book \"Dreaming in Chinese\", his own article \"What Is the Chinese Dream?\", and Gerald Lemos' book \"The End of the Chinese Dream\" as examples. In response to Fallows, \"The Economist\" cites an article in the \"Xinhua Daily Telegraph\" that directly credits Friedman.\n\n\"The Economist\" writes that references to Friedman's article have also appeared in other Chinese media outlets, including a translation in \"The References News\", in an article written for China's State Council Information Office, on the cover of the magazine \"Oriental Outlook\" as the main caption, in a magazine article published by \"Frontline\", and in an article for a local newspaper written by China's ambassador to Romania, Huo Yuzhen. In the preface of the \"Oriental Outlook\" \"Chinese Dream\" issue, the editor states that \"the 18th national congress of the Chinese Communist Party convened November 8th. \"Does the next generation of Chinese leaders have a 'Chinese Dream' that is different from the \"American Dream\"?... This was a question raised by one of America's most influential media figures, Thomas Friedman.\"\n\nJust after becoming General Secretary of the Communist Party of China in late 2012, Xi announced what would become the hallmark of his administration. \"The Chinese Dream,\" he said, is \"the great rejuvenation of the Chinese nation.\" Xi's Chinese Dream is described as achieving the Two Centenaries: the material goal of China becoming a \"moderately well-off society\" by 2021, the 100th anniversary of the Chinese Communist Party, and the modernization goal of China becoming a fully developed nation by about 2049, the 100th anniversary of the founding of the People's Republic.\n\nIn May 2013, Xi Jinping called upon young people \"to dare to dream, work assiduously to fulfill the dreams and contribute to the revitalization of the nation\". He called upon all levels of the Party and the government to facilitate favorable conditions for their career development. Xi told young people to \"cherish the glorious youth, strive with pioneer spirit and contribute their wisdom and energy to the realization of the Chinese dream\".\n\nAccording to Robert Lawrence Kuhn, who is an international investment banker and the author of \"How China's Leaders Think: The Inside Story of China's Reform and What This Means for the Future\", the Chinese Dream has four parts: Strong China (economically, politically, diplomatically, scientifically, militarily); Civilized China (equity and fairness, rich culture, high morals); Harmonious China (amity among social classes); Beautiful China (healthy environment, low pollution). Khun states that \"a moderately well-off society\" is where all citizens, rural and urban, enjoy high standards of living. This includes doubling the 2010 G.D.P. per capita (approaching $10,000 per person) by about 2020 and completing urbanization (roughly one billion people, 70 percent of China's population) by about 2030. \"Modernization\" means China regaining its position as a world leader in science and technology as well as in economics and business; the resurgence of Chinese civilization, culture and military might; and China participating actively in all areas of human endeavor.\n\nReporters have noted that, \"Mr Xi had seen the American dream up close, having spent a couple of weeks in 1985 with a rural family in Iowa. (He revisited them during a trip to America last year as leader-in-waiting.)\"\nThe concept of Chinese Dream is very similar to the idea of the \"American Dream\". It stresses the importance of entrepreneurial spirit. It also glorifies a generation of self-made men and women in post-reform China such as those rural immigrants who moved to the urban centers and achieved magnificent improvement in terms of their living standards and social life. Chinese Dream can be interpreted as the collective consciousness of Chinese people during the era of social transformation and economic progress.\n\nAs an aspect of political thought in contemporary China, the emergence of Chinese Dream indicates a diversion of political ideology from egalitarianism to a relatively more libertarian individualist approach. It is worth noting that the concept is still based on collectivism rather than individualism for it sees the subject of Chinese Dream as the people of China as a whole instead of specific individuals.\n\nThe idea was put forward by the new CPC general secretary Xi Jinping on 29 November 2012 and repeated by him on numerous important occasions. The Communist Party's propaganda chief, Liu Yunshan, has directed that the concept of the Chinese dream be incorporated into school textbooks.\n\nIn an article for the Huffington Post, French sinologist David Gosset (高大伟) presented the idea that the Liyuan Style is an illustration of the China Dream. China's new First Lady Peng Liyuan is at the intersection of what Gosset calls \"Modern China\", \"Civilizational China\" and \"Global China\".\n\nHuang Yongjun, the founder and general manager of New Classic Press (UK) is a major advocator of the \"China Dream\" in the United Kingdom. The New Classic Press is an effort to \"explain China to the world\" by Huang.\n\nThe Chinese Dream is vaguely defined, and has led to multiple interpretations describing the phrase's meaning.\n\nAuthor Helen H. Wang was one of the first to connect the Chinese Dream with the American Dream. In her book \"The Chinese Dream\", Wang wrote: \"The Chinese Dream, taking its title from the American Dream, alluding to an easily identifiable concept...\" Wang attempts to demonstrate that the Chinese people have similar dreams as those of the American people. \"This new [Chinese] middle class,\" Wang wrote, \"which barely existed a decade ago, will reach the size of more than two Americas in a decade or two. They number in the hundreds of millions, with the same hopes and dreams that you and I have: to have a better life, to give our children an even better life...\". Wang has also claimed that \"Chinese people must define their own dream\".\n\nThe China Dream has been defined as sustainable development. Peggy Liu and the NGO JUCCCE coined the phrase \"China Dream\" as a movement based on sustainability, which was later popularized in China through a \"New York Times\" article and adopted by Xi Jinping. Pollution and food safety are popular concerns in China. Cities are frequently covered by smog and the country's rivers are polluted with industrial waste. China's rising middle class is expected to increase by 500 million people by 2025 and will continue to put a strain on the country's dwindling resources. According to Liu, the Chinese Dream of sustainability can be achieved through the promotion of green technologies and the reduction of widespread conspicuous consumption. China's high growth has caused widespread environmental damage, and without environmental reforms, the deterioration could threaten the legitimacy of the Communist Party. The Chinese Dream is a dream of a prosperous lifestyle reconciled with a sustainable lifestyle.\n\nThe Chinese Dream has been viewed as a call for China's rising international influence. Xi Jinping refers to the dream as a form of national rejuvenation. Young Chinese are envious of America's cultural influence and hope that China could one day rival the US as a cultural exporter. Members of Chinese military support China's military development, opining that the \"strong-nation dream of a great revival of the Chinese people\" can only result from a \"strong-army dream\".Former United States Secretary of State John Kerry has promoted the idea of a \"Pacific Dream\" to accommodate China's rise through regional collaboration over shared interests like the environment and economic growth.\n\nMany Chinese have interpreted the Chinese dream as the pursuit of individual dreams. Evan Osnos of \"The New Yorker\" concludes that \"Xi Jinping has sought to inspire his people by raising the flag of the China Dream, but they have interpreted it as China \"Dreams\"—plural.\" The Chinese Dream is defined according to an individual's personal aspirations and desires, which may lead to \"the proliferation of 1.3 billion China Dreams.\" Sujian Guo and Baogang Guo argue, \"To a great extent, the American dream has been exported to China and has become the Chinese dream.\" But according to official party journal \"Qiushi\", the Chinese Dream is not about individual glory, but about collective effort. Measuring public sentiment on Sina Weibo, Christopher Marquis and Zoe Yang of CivilChina.org found that the Chinese Dream refers more to the common goods bestowed by civil society than it does to individual achievements.. A main aim of the Chinese state propaganda is therefore the construction of links between individual and national aspirations, which also signifies the convergence of the values of the market economy and state nationalism. This is evident in Chinese entertainment television. In a genre of reality shows in public speaking, for example, contestants frequently connect between their \"dreams\" and the triumph of China and further emphasize the legitimacy of the Chinese Communist Party in delivering a better future.\n\nSome government officials and activists view the Chinese Dream as a need for economic and political reform. Sustaining China's economic growth requires economic reform encompassing urbanization, the reduction of government bureaucracy, and weakening the power of special interests. Chinese liberals have defined the Chinese Dream as a dream of constitutionalism. \"Southern Weekly\", a liberal newspaper based in Guangzhou, attempted to publish an editorial titled \"The Chinese dream: a dream of constitutionalism\" which advocated the separation of powers, but was censored by the authorities. Both Xi Jinping and Premier Li Keqiang support economic reform, but have shied away from discussing political reform. Premier Li has said that \"But however deep the water may be, we will wade into the water. This is because we have no alternative. Reform concerns the destiny of our country and the future of our nation.\" According to official party sources, the Chinese Dream is the \"essence of Socialism with Chinese characteristics\".\n\nIn October 2013, Britain's Chancellor of the Exchequer, George Osborne, described the Chinese Dream as a political reform that includes \"rebalancing from investment to consumption\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6932859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6932859", "title": "Code Geass", "text": "Code Geass\n\n, often referred to as simply \"Code Geass\", is a Japanese anime series created by Sunrise, directed by Gorō Taniguchi, and written by Ichirō Ōkouchi, with original character designs by manga authors Clamp. Set in an alternate timeline, the series focuses on how the former prince Lelouch vi Britannia obtains a power known as Geass and decides to use it to obliterate the Holy Britannian Empire, a superpower that has been conquering various countries.\n\n\"Code Geass\" first ran in Japan on MBS from October 5, 2006, to July 28, 2007. Its sequel series, , ran as a simulcast on JNN stations (like MBS and TBS) from April 6, 2008 to September 28, 2008. The series has also been adapted into various manga and light novels with the former showing various alternate scenarios from the TV series. Bandai Entertainment also licensed most parts from the franchise for English release in December 2007, airing the two TV series on Adult Swim. Most manga and light novels have also been published in North America by Bandai. At the \"Code Geass\" 10th anniversary event on November 27, 2016, it was announced that the series will be receiving a new anime, along with a compilation film trilogy in 2017 that recaped the events from both seasons of the anime series. A new film, titled , will take place several years after the Zero Requiem. It will be released in theaters on February 9, 2019.\n\nThe anime television series has been well received in Japan, selling over a million DVD and Blu-ray Disc volumes. Both seasons have won several awards at the Tokyo International Anime Fair, \"Animage\" Anime Grand Prix, and Animation Kobe event. Critics have praised the series for its large audience appeal as well as the cross conflicts shown among the main characters and the moral questions presented.\n\nThe story is set in an alternative timeline where the world is divided into three superpowers: the Holy Britannian Empire (the Americas; also called Britannia), the Chinese Federation (Asia), and the European Union (Europe and Africa; previously known as the Euro-Universe, also known as Europa United in \"Akito the Exiled\"). The story takes place after the Holy Britannian Empire's conquest of Japan on August 10, 2010 a.t.b., by means of Britannia's newest weapon, the \"Autonomous Armored Knight\", or \"Knightmare Frame\". In turn, Britannia effectively strips Japan and its citizens of all rights and freedoms and renames the country Area 11 with its citizens referred to as Elevens.\n\nLelouch vi Britannia is an exiled Britannian prince, son of Emperor Charles zi Britannia and his royal consort Marianne vi Britannia. Lelouch has one sister, Nunnally vi Britannia. Marianne was brutally murdered in the palace and Nunnally, who witnessed the murder of their mother, was so traumatized she lost both her sight and ability to walk. Lelouch is furious with his father, believing his father failed his mother and sister by turning a blind eye to their mother's death and failing to pursue their mother's killer.\n\nThe story begins with Lelouch and Nunnally being sent as political pawns to Japan to lull the Japanese government into a false sense of security. After the siblings are sent to Japan, Japan is attacked and defeated by Britannia. With the ruins of Japan as a background, Lelouch vows to his Japanese friend Suzaku Kururugi that he will one day obliterate Britannia as an act of vengeance against his father.\n\nSeven years later, Lelouch (now going by the name Lelouch Lamperouge), is now a popular yet withdrawn student at Ashford Academy. Lelouch becomes involved in a terrorist attack and finds a mysterious girl called C.C. (C2), who saves Lelouch's life from the Britannian Royal Guard, by making a contract with him and granting Lelouch a power known as . This power, also known as the , allows him to command anyone to do whatever he wants, including bending their will to live, fight, or die on his behalf. This power can affect an individual just once and only through direct eye contact. Lelouch decides to use his Geass to find his mother's murderers, destroy the Britannian Empire, and create a better world where Nunnally can live happily. In the process, Lelouch becomes Zero, a masked vigilante and the leader of the resistance movement known as The Black Knights, gaining popularity and support among the Japanese on his way towards the rebellion of Britannia. However, this does not come without a cost. Caught up in a conflict where he does not know the full extent of his powers, Lelouch will have to battle Suzaku, a resistance member named Kallen Stadtfeld, the strongest army in the world, his own half-siblings, and many others in a battle that will forever change the world.\n\n\"Code Geass\" began as a concept developed at Sunrise by Ichirō Ōkouchi and Gorō Taniguchi, who proposed it to producer Yoshitaka Kawaguchi. Kawaguchi had previously approached Okouchi and Taniguchi during the production of \"Planetes\". The basic idea for the plot consisted of a \"hero\" who led a secret organization, which was later developed into a conflict between two characters with different values and who belonged to the same military unit, who eventually became Lelouch Lamperouge and Suzaku Kururugi.\n\nDuring these initial planning stages, Kawaguchi also contacted the noted manga artist group Clamp. This was the first time Clamp had ever been requested to design the characters of an anime series. Clamp signed onto the project early during these development stages and provided numerous ideas, which helped develop the series' setting and characters.\n\nWhile developing the character designs for Lelouch, the protagonist of the series, Clamp had originally conceived of his hair color as being white. Ageha Ohkawa, head writer at Clamp, said she had visualized him as being a character to which \"everyone\" could relate to as being \"cool\", literally, a \"beauty\". During these planning stages, Clamp and the Sunrise staff had discussed a number of possible inspirations for the characters, including KinKi Kids and Tackey & Tsubasa. They had wanted to create a \"hit show,\" a series which would appeal to \"everyone.\" Lelouch's alter ego, Zero, was one of the earliest developed characters, with Ōkouchi having wanted a mask to be included as a part of the series, feeling it was necessary for it to be a Sunrise show, and Clamp wanting a unique design never prior seen in any Sunrise series (said mask was nicknamed \"tulip\" for its distinctive design).\n\nThe concept for the Geass may have been inspired by the Irish and Welsh legends of \"Geas\" or \"Geis\". A geas is a compulsion laid on someone to do or not do something. While the geas itself does not lie on any spectrum, the benefits or actions of it may be decidedly benevolent or malevolent. The concept fits in into the wider fictional world and its lore of British inspirations.\n\nClamp's finalized original character design art, illustrated by its lead artist Mokona, was subsequently converted into animation character designs for the series by Sunrise's character designer Takahiro Kimura, who had previously spent \"every day\" analyzing Clamp's art and style from their artbooks and manga series. In working on the animation character designs, he focused on designing them so as to enable the series' other animators to apply them without deviating from Clamp's original art style.\n\nThe music for the series was composed by Kōtarō Nakagawa and Hitomi Kuroishi, who had earlier worked with the series' core staff in \"Planetes\" and Taniguchi's earlier work \"Gun X Sword\". In addition to the incidental music featured in each episode, Kuroishi also composed numerous insert songs for the series, including \"Stories\", \"Masquerade\", \"Alone\", and \"Innocent Days\", which were each performed by Kuroishi herself, while \"Picaresque\" and \"Callin'\" were performed by the singer-songwriter Mikio Sakai, who had also earlier worked with Nakagawa and Kuroishi in \"Planetes\". The bands FLOW, Ali Project, Jinn, SunSet Swish, Access, and Orange Range have provided songs for the opening and ending themes.\n\nWhen the series was being developed for broadcast on Mainichi Broadcasting System, it had been given the network's Saturday evening prime time slot, which was later changed to a Thursday late night time slot. Due to this change, the overall outlook and some elements of the series were changed and further developed to suit the more mature, late night audience. The supernatural \"Geass\" ability finally came into the show at this point and was first conceived as a special power granted by an \"angel\" to the main characters, though this last part was also modified.\n\n\"Code Geass\" officially premiered on the Mainichi Broadcasting System (MBS) television station at 25:25 on October 5, 2006 (01:25 JST on October 6, 2006). Its satellite television premiere across Japan on Animax was on November 7, 2006. Upon the airing of the first 23 episodes, the series went on hiatus on March 29, 2007, and completed broadcast of the first series with a contiguous one-hour broadcast of episodes 24 and 25 at 26:25 on Saturday, July 28, 2007.\n\nThe immense popularity of \"Code Geass: Lelouch of the Rebellion\" followed with the development of its sequel, \"Code Geass: Lelouch of the Rebellion R2\", which was first announced on the March 2007 issue of \"Newtype\" and later confirmed by Sunrise producer Yoshitaka Kawaguchi on the series' official staff blog on March 9, 2007.\n\n\"Code Geass: Lelouch of the Rebellion R2\" premiered on all Japan News Network (JNN) member stations (like MBS and TBS) on April 6, 2008, in the primetime anime timeslot, with the timeslot changing from 18:00 JST on Saturdays to 17:00 JST on Sundays. Prior to the series' television broadcast, three private preview screenings of episode 1 were held on March 15 and March 16 in Osaka and Tokyo respectively, which was attended by the series' Japanese voice actors as well as a pool of 3800 randomly selected applicants. On April 15, 2008, at 17:00 JST, the last 6 minutes of the then unaired third episode was accidentally posted onto the Internet due to an error by Bandai Channel, Bandai's online broadcast channel and the series online distributor, in the midst of testing a system preventing illegal online uploads.\n\nThe picture drama was based on a live event held in Tokyo, Japan on Lelouch's birthday.\n\nAnother OVA anime titled was announced and revealed through the anime's official website. Takahiro Kimura did the character designs of the series. Makoto Baba was assigned as the director of the OVA while episode scriptwriter Yuuichi Nomura and music composer Kotaro Nakagawa returned for the said project. In the story, Lelouch makes the ultimate use of his Geass for his little sister Nunnally, who loves Alice in Wonderland. The Blu-ray was released by Bandai Visual on July 27, 2012 with English subtitles and bundled with a 40 page picture book.\n\nA 3-part theatrical film remake of the first 2 seasons of the anime, titled , was released, with the first film titled released on October 21, 2017. The second film titled was released February 10, 2018. The film placed 8th at the mini-theater ranking on its opening weekend. The third compilation film, titled was released in theaters on May 26, 2018. Each film has several tweaks to the storyline, as Taniguchi stated, to give it more of a \"what if\" scenarios leading to the new film.\n\n\"Code Geass: Lelouch of the Re;surrection\" was announced on November 27, 2016. It will be released in theaters in Japan in February 9, 2019. Funimation announced that they licensed the film for its North American theatrical release in 2019.\n\nThe new series was first revealed on December 5, 2009. In April 2010, it was officially revealed that a new \"Code Geass\" side story anime called would be directed by Kazuki Akane (\"The Vision of Escaflowne\"). The side story is an OVA series set in Europe during the Britannian invasion of the continent between \"Lelouch of the Rebellion\"s two seasons. Originally intended to be released in four chapters, production of a fifth \"Akito the Exiled\" episode was announced after the Japanese debut of the third entry on May 2, 2015. Along with the two seasons of the television series, the OVAs are licensed by Funimation. In January 2016, Manga Entertainment, who licensed the series in the UK, listed that they will release the first two episodes on Blu-Ray with an English dub on December 5, 2016. They later changed the date to April 10, 2017 and as of most recently the release is now scheduled to be on October 1, 2017. Madman Entertainment has also released the first three episodes on DVD. Funimation announced it will release the series in early 2017. On March 15, 2017, Funimation officially announced the pre order and release date, June 27, 2017. The release will be a Blu-ray and DVD Combo pack with both subbed and dubbed audio. The picture drama has been released in only Japan and Italy.\n\nBoth seasons of \"Code Geass\" have been licensed for release in the United States by Bandai Entertainment, and the first season began airing on Cartoon Network's Adult Swim programming block in the U.S. on April 27, 2008; the second began airing on November 2, immediately following the first season, both viewable in English on Adult Swim Video. The series finale premiered on June 7, 2009, ending the second season and the rest of the story. On April 23, 2010, Adult Swim's rights to this series expired.\n\nFollowing the closure of Bandai Entertainment in 2012, Sunrise announced at their official panel during Otakon 2013 that Funimation has rescued both seasons of \"Code Geass\" and in addition licensed \"Akito the Exiled\", along with a handful of other former Bandai Entertainment titles.\n\nIn Australia and New Zealand, the series is sub-licensed to Madman Entertainment by Bandai Entertainment USA, and began airing on Australian channel ABC2 from January 19, 2009.\n\nIn the Philippines, the first season of \"Code Geass\" premiered on November 10, 2008, weekday nights at 7:30pm PST and ended on December 15, 2008 through TV5, while season 2 premiered on May 4, 2009 and ended on June 5, 2009, weekday nights at 6:00pm PST with a weekend afternoon recap of the week's episodes also on TV5. Despite the poor ratings it attained due to competition with local TV newscasts and prime time soaps, the series was able to gain a huge following and became one of the most talked-about anime series in the country during its run. \"Code Geass\" had its Philippine cable premiere on July 27, 2010 through Hero TV.\n\nIn Italy, the first season aired from September 23, 2009 to February 25, 2010 on Rai 4, while season 2 was broadcast on Rai 4 from March 4, 2010 to August 12, 2010; both seasons were broadcast at about 11:10 pm.\n\nSunrise announced at its Anime Boston panel on Friday that Funimation licensed the remake film trilogy.\n\nKadokawa Shoten has published four separate manga adaptations, each containing an alternate storyline. The first four of the manga series have been licensed for an English language release in North America by Bandai Entertainment. The first, \"Code Geass: Lelouch of the Rebellion\", by Majiko~! and originally serialized \"Monthly Asuka\", focused on the protagonist of the series, Lelouch Lamperouge, with few differences from the anime's basic storyline. The most noticeable difference from the anime version is the absence of the Knightmare frames. Its chapters were collected in eight \"tankōbon\" volumes released from December 26, 2008 to March 26, 2010. Bandai's English adaptation of the series was published from July 29, 2008 to February 15, 2011.\n\nThe second manga is . It was written by Atsuro Yomino and serialized in \"Beans A\" magazine. It focuses on the character Suzaku Kururugi in an alternate reality, where he fights against the criminal organization known as the Black Knights. It was released in two volumes on June 26, 2007 and September 26, 2008. The first English volume was released on January 6, 2009, and the second followed it on October 13, 2009.\n\n, serialized in \"Comp Ace\" and written by Tomomasa Takuma, focuses on Lelouch's sister, Nunnally Lamperouge who goes into searching her missing brother when her health is restored by an entity named Nemo. It was published in five volumes from June 26, 2007 to April 25, 2009. The English volumes were published from June 9, 2009 to March 23, 2010.\n\nA fourth manga adaptation, , was serialized in Kerokero Ace. Set in an alternate 1853, Lelouch is the commander of the Shogunate's military counterinsurgence brigade known as the Shinsengumi, which fights the Black Revolutionaries, a rebel group led by a masked individual known as Rei. It was released on a single volume on October 25, 2010, while the English version was published on May 10, 2011.\n\nIn late 2009, Bandai announced a new project greenlit for 2010. A manga, titled , is the first product announced. The story takes place in the same official \"Code Geass\" history as the anime, but in a different era with the anime director Goro Taniguchi scripting the story. The title character, Renya, is a 17-year-old boy who encounters a mysterious, perpetually young witch named \"Reifū C.C.\", who has appeared in Japan's historical Edo era to seek a new partner for a covenant. It began publication in the May 2010 issue of \"Shōnen Ace\". Bandai Entertainment announced that it will publish the manga in English as with the other adaptions. On January 2, 2012 as a part of Bandai Entertainment's announced restructuring, they have since, among other titles, revoked publishing of Code Geass: Renya of Darkness for English release.\n\nThe spinoff takes place between the first and second seasons of the anime television and is told from two perspectives. The photo story in Hobby Japan centers around Orpheus Zevon, a young terrorist with the Knightmare Frame Byakuen who is in pursuit of his lover's killer. The manga in Newtype Ace revolves around Oldrin Zevon, a girl in the Britannia Empire's anti-terrorist unit Glinda Knights who pilots the Knightmare Frame Lancelot Grail. The story of Oz the Reflection and Akito the Exiled takes place at the same time in between season 1 and 2 of the TV series.\n\nThe series has been adapted into a series of drama CDs, called \"Sound Episodes\", the first of which was released in Japan in April 2007 by Victor Entertainment, with new volumes released monthly. Written by many of the same writers as the series, these episodes are set between episodes and feature theme songs performed by the series' voice actors. They have also been available online on a limited streaming basis on the Japanese internet website Biglobe.\n\nIn total, twelve drama CDs have been released. The first six, released between April 25, 2007 and September 27, 2007 cover the first season of the series, and the other six focusing on the second season.\n\nThe music for the series, composed by Kōtarō Nakagawa and Hitomi Kuroishi, has been released across two original soundtracks produced by Yoshimoto Ishikawa and released by Victor Entertainment. The first was released in Japan on December 20, 2006, and the second on March 24, 2007. The covers and jackets for both soundtracks were illustrated by Takahiro Kimura.\n\n\"Code Geass\" has been additionally novelized into a series of light novels. First serialized in Kadokawa Shoten's \"The Sneaker\" magazine, they are divided into two separate series corresponding with the series two seasons. The first series, \"Code Geass: Lelouch of the Rebellion\", spanned five volumes with the first, labelled as volume 0, released in Japan on April 28, 2007 and the last on March 1, 2008. All five volumes in the first series of novels have been released in English by Bandai Visual. The first volume was released on November 2008 and the last one on February 23, 2010. The first novel acts as a prologue, focusing on how Lelouch befriended Suzaku Kururugi, when the former prince and his sister Nunnally Lamperouge were sent to Japan as political hostages.\n\nThe second novel series, \"Code Geass: Lelouch of the Rebellion R2\", covers the second season of the anime series in which Lelouch continues his battle against the Britannian Empire. It was released in four volumes from June 1, 2008 to March 1, 2009. A single volume side story novel, was released on April 1, 2008 in Japan. It focuses on the life of teenager girl Kallen Stadtfeld who becomes a soldier from the organization the Black Knights under Lelouch's leadership to defeat Britannia. On January 3, 2012, the English publication of the light novel adaptation of R2 had been announced as cancelled as part of Bandai Entertainment's planned restructuring which had been announced the day before.\n\nThe series was also slated to be adapted into a series of video games, developed for the Nintendo DS, PlayStation Portable and PlayStation 2 platforms, which was published by Namco Bandai Games. All three games have been available in only Japanese, although an incomplete unofficial patch for the Nintendo DS game exists on the internet that partially translates the game into English. A release on the Wii platform was cancelled for unknown reasons.\n\nThe official website for the first Nintendo DS game launched on July 16, 2007, with the game being released a few months later on October 25.\n\nA second game, titled \"Code Geass: Lelouch of the Rebellion Lost Colors\", was developed for the PlayStation Portable and PlayStation 2, and released in Japan on March 27, 2008. It is a visual novel game which follows a new protagonist named , who suffers from amnesia. He has a Geass ability similar to Lelouch's, but activated by voice.\n\nThe third game for the Nintendo DS is a collection of minigames featuring super deformed forms of the characters. The player moves along a board through dice rolls, landing on different spots to activate minigames. The minigames are parody-style events with multiple genres. These include helping Jeremiah grow oranges, racing against C.C. and Shirley in swimming, and a sidescrolling beat-em-up featuring Kallen in Guren-like armor.\n\n\"Code Geass R2\" appeared in From Software (\"Demon's Souls\", \"Armored Core\") and Banpresto's PlayStation 3 exclusive mecha action game \"Another Century's Episode R\", released in Japan in August 2010 and in which both versions of Suzaku's Lancelot, Lelouch's Shinkiro, both versions of Kallen's Guren, and C.C.'s Akatsuki are playable. A fourth installment of the ACE franchise for the PlayStation Portable, Another Century's Episode Portable, included Suzaku's Lancelot Albion and Lelouch/Zero's Shinkiro.\n\n\"Code Geass\" characters have appeared as costumes in the Japanese version of the PlayStation 3 game \"Tales of Graces F\". These characters are Zero, Suzaku, C.C. and Kallen. These costumes were never released from the US version for unknown reasons.\n\nTwo artbooks featuring illustrations of the series, \"Code Geass Graphics Zero\" () and \"Code Geass Graphics Ashford\" (), have been published in Japan. Coinciding with the release of the second season of \"Code Geass\" was the publication of another artbook, \"Code Geass – Lelouch of the Rebellion illustrations Rebels\" (), which featured 134 art pieces of the first season. Another 95 page artbook titled \"Code Geass: Lelouch of the Rebellion – The Complete Artbook\" () has also been published. Finally, CLAMP, the well-known manga artist team who did the designs for Code Geass, put out their own artbook, entitled Code Geass x CLAMP: Mutuality.\n\n\"Code Geass\" has also been adapted into a series of weekly internet radio broadcasts, which were streamed online on the BEAT☆Net Radio! portal, the first of which, , began streaming from October 6, 2006. It featured Sayaka Ohara (voice actor of Milly Ashford) and Satomi Arai (voice actor of Sayoko Shinazaki). The second, , was first streamed on December 12, 2006, and were hosted by Jun Fukuyama (voice actor of Lelouch) and Noriaki Sugiyama (voice actor of Rivalz). During \"R2\", a new show named was streamed, hosted by Fukuyama and Takahiro Sakurai (voice actor of Suzaku). \n\n\"Code Geass\" has received best-selling success and broad critical acclaim since its release. Despite the wide variety of mecha designed and prominently featuring in the show, fans of \"Code Geass\" are of a wide variety and not always attracted purely to the Knightmare combat scenes. Anime News Network's columnist Todd Ciolek attributes the soaring popularity of \"Code Geass\" to \"the series hitting every important fan sector\", with the audience appeal points ranging from a \"complex cast of characters and a fast-paced story, told with Goro Taniguchi's capable direction\" for \"general-interest fans\" to \"pretty and just-a-little-broken heroes\" for \"yaoi-buying female fans\". Carl Kimlinger also finds that the series \"has the skill and energy to carry viewers over the top with it, where they can spend a pleasurable few hours reveling in its melodramatic charms.\" He also adds that Taniguchi \"executes the excesses of his series with care, skillfully intercutting events as Lelouch's plans come together (or fall apart) and using kinetic mecha combat\".\n\nCarlo Santos of Anime News Network wrote that the franchise \"in a way, [...] reflects the malaise of a generation: the realization that old, rich, powerful people have screwed up the world and that the young are helpless to do anything about it\". According to him, Lelouch's actions exemplify the wish to see problems like \"economic collapse, class conflict, political instability, radical extremism\" solved by \"Zero's vigilante methods\" but Santos expresses doubt in such an approach and concludes that \"the series is at its best when raising questions rather than offering a final solution\". T.H.E.M. Anime Reviewer Dallas Marshall gave the series 4 out of 5 stars, stating \"A melodramatic piece of science fiction that has more than enough going for it in terms of action and visuals but tends to go overboard with its emotionalism. If this minor flaw can be overlooked, there is an epic story to be told with a rather intriguing main character at the helm. Take away one star if that minor 'flaw' cannot be ignored.\"\n\nWhen the first episode was shown during a special test screening, which was attended by Ōkawa, other members of the series' staff, as well as several journalists and other media-related personnel in response to the hype surrounding the series' upcoming release, the audience fell into immediate silence after it ended, followed by \"tremendous applause.\" By August 2008, over 900,000 \"Code Geass\" discs had been sold in Japan.\n\nReportedly, Bandai Visual shipped over one million DVD and Blu-ray Discs related to the \"Code Geass\" franchise by November 2008, placing it among the most popular contemporary anime series in both Japan and North America. During 2008, the first volume from \"R2\" was the fourth bestselling anime DVD and Blu-ray Disc in Japan according to Amazon.com.\n\nDuring 2017-2018, Code Geass launched 3 Theatrical Recap movies in Japan (October 21, February 10, and May 26 respectively), across 79 Theaters. The first one, The Awakening Path grossed ¥67,954,086.40 Yen opening night, rising to number #8 on the charts. The Rebellion Path grossed ¥57,241,203.20 Yen during its opening premiere, being #7 on the charts. The Imperial Path grossed ¥67,864,834,800 Yen its opening day, and debuted to #8 on the charts.\n\nSince its premiere, \"Code Geass: Lelouch of the Rebellion\" has collected numerous awards and accolades. At the sixth annual Tokyo Anime Awards held at the 2007 Tokyo International Anime Fair, \"Code Geass\" won the best anime television series award. The second season also got the award of \"Best Screenplay\" in the 2009 Tokyo Anime Fair. In noted Japanese anime magazine \"Animage\"s 29th Annual Anime Grand Prix, \"Code Geass\" won the most popular series award, with Lelouch Lamperouge also being chosen as the most popular male character and \"Colors\" being chosen as the most popular song. In the 30th Annual Anime Grand Prix, Lelouch won first place again and C.C. was voted most popular female character. At the first Seiyu Awards held in 2007, Jun Fukuyama won the award for best actor in a leading role for his performance as Lelouch Lamperouge in the series, while Ami Koshimizu won the award for best actress in a supporting role for her performance as Kallen Stadtfeld.\n\nFurthermore, \"Code Geass\" won the award for Best TV Animation at the twelfth Animation Kobe event, held annually in Kobe, Hyōgo Prefecture, with \"R2\" taking the award in the following year. In the 2009, Seiun Award, \"Code Geass R2\" was a nominee in the category \"Best Media Award\".\n\n"}
{"id": "105972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105972", "title": "Death Becomes Her", "text": "Death Becomes Her\n\nDeath Becomes Her is a 1992 American black comedy fantasy film directed by Robert Zemeckis, written by David Koepp and Martin Donovan, and starring Meryl Streep, Bruce Willis, and Goldie Hawn. The film focuses on a pair of rivals (Streep and Hawn), who drink a magic potion that promises eternal youth, but experience unpleasant side effects when they physically die, becoming walking, talking corpses.\n\n\"Death Becomes Her\" won the Academy Award for Best Visual Effects. The film was a commercial success, grossing $149 million worldwide ($58 million domestic, $90 million international) at the box office.\n\nIn 1978, narcissistic, manipulative actress Madeline Ashton performs in an awful musical version of \"Sweet Bird of Youth\" on Broadway. She invites long-time rival Helen Sharp, an aspiring writer, backstage along with Helen's fiancé, plastic surgeon Ernest Menville. Ernest is smitten with Madeline, and breaks off his engagement with Helen to marry her. Seven years later, in 1985, Helen winds up in a psychiatric hospital after fixating upon Madeline. Obese and depressed, Helen feigns rehabilitation and is released, plotting revenge on Madeline.\n\nAnother seven years later, in 1992, Madeline lives in Beverly Hills with Ernest, but they are miserable. Madeline's acting career has faded with age, and Ernest is an alcoholic reduced to working as a reconstructive mortician. Receiving an invitation to a party celebrating Helen's new book, Madeline rushes to a spa where she regularly receives facial treatments. Understanding Madeline's situation, the spa owner gives her the business card of Lisle Von Rhuman, a woman specializing in youth rejuvenation.\n\nMadeline and Ernest attend the party for Helen's novel, \"Forever Young\", and discover that somehow, Helen is now slim, youthful, and beautiful. Dumbfounded and depressed by Helen's appearance, Madeline visits her young lover, but discovers he is with a woman his age. Dejected, Madeline drives to Lisle's home. Lisle is a mysterious, glamorous, wealthy socialite claiming to be 71, but looks much younger. She reveals to Madeline the secret of her beauty and youth—an expensive potion that promises eternal life and an everlasting youthful appearance. Madeline purchases and drinks the potion and is rejuvenated, regaining her beauty. As a condition of purchase, Madeline must disappear from public life after 10 years to keep the existence of the potion secret. Lisle warns Madeline to take good care of her body.\n\nHelen seduces Ernest and convinces him to kill Madeline. When Madeline returns home, Ernest and she argue, during which Madeline falls down the stairs, breaking her neck. Believing Madeline dead, Ernest phones Helen for advice, not seeing Madeline stand and approach him with her head twisted backward. Ernest assumes she has a dislocated neck and drives her to the emergency room. Madeline is told she is technically dead, and faints. She is taken to the morgue due to her body having no pulse and a temperature below 80 °F. After rescuing Madeline, Ernest takes the sign of her \"resurrection\" as a miracle, returns home with Madeline, and uses his skills as a mortician to repair her body.\n\nHelen demands information about Madeline's situation. Overhearing Helen and Ernest discussing their plot to stage Madeline's death, Madeline shoots Helen with a shotgun. Although the blast creates a hole in her abdomen, Helen survives, revealing that she drank the same potion. Fed up with the pair, Ernest prepares to leave, but Helen and Madeline convince him to do one last repair on their bodies. They realize they will need constant maintenance and scheme to have Ernest drink the potion to ensure he will always be available.\n\nAfter bringing Ernest to Lisle, she offers to give him the potion free of charge in exchange for his surgical skills. Ernest refuses rather than being immortal. He pockets the potion and flees, but becomes trapped on the roof. Helen and Madeline implore Ernest to drink the potion to survive an impending fall. Ernest, realizing they only want him to drink it because they need him, refuses and drops the potion to the ground several stories below, but after falling he lands in Lisle's pool and escapes. After Lisle banishes Madeline and Helen from her group, the pair realize they must rely on each other for companionship and maintenance.\n\nThirty-seven years later, Madeline and Helen attend Ernest's funeral, where he is eulogized as having lived an adventurous and fulfilling life with a large family and friends. They are parodies of their former selves, with cracked, peeling paint and putty covering most of their grey and rotting flesh. Helen trips and teeters at the top of a staircase. After Madeline hesitates to help her, Helen grabs Madeline and the two tumble down the stairs, breaking to pieces. As their disembodied heads totter together, Helen sardonically asks Madeline, \"Do you remember where you parked the car?\"\n\n\n\"Death Becomes Her\" was a technologically complex movie to make, and represented a major advancement in the use of computer-generated effects, under the pioneering direction of Industrial Light and Magic. For example, it was the first film where computer-generated skin texture was used, in the shot where Madeline resets her neck after her head is smashed with a shovel by Helen. Creating the sequences where Madeline's head is dislocated and facing the wrong way around involved a combination of blue screen technology, an animatronic model created by Amalgamated Dynamics, and prosthetic make-up effects on Meryl Streep to create the look of a twisted neck.\n\nThe digital advancements pioneered on \"Death Becomes Her\" would be incorporated into Industrial Light and Magic's next project, \"Jurassic Park\", released by Universal only a year later. Both films shared cinematographer Dean Cundey and production designer Rick Carter, in addition to ILM.\n\nThe production had a fair number of mishaps. For example, in a scene where Helen Sharp and Madeline Ashton are battling with shovels, Meryl Streep accidentally cut Goldie Hawn's face, leaving a faint scar. Streep admitted that she disliked working on a project that focused so heavily on special effects, saying:\n\nThe film was made entirely in Los Angeles and used several locations also frequently used in film and television, including the Greystone Mansion (Ernest's funeral home) and the Ebell of Los Angeles (Helen's book party). The exterior of Madeline and Ernest's mansion is located at 1125 Oak Grove Avenue in San Marino, but the interior was a set built on a soundstage. The ending scene where Helen and Madeline tumble down a set of stairs outside a chapel was filmed at Mount St. Mary's University (Los Angeles) in Brentwood.\n\nThe theatrical version of \"Death Becomes Her\" omitted or shortened many scenes featured in the rough cut of the movie. Robert Zemeckis decided this was needed to accelerate the pace of the film and eliminate extraneous jokes. Most dramatically, the original ending was entirely redone after test audiences reacted negatively to it. The ending featured Ernest, after he has fled Lisle's party, meeting a bartender (Tracey Ullman), who helps him fake his death to evade Madeline and Helen. The two women encounter Ernest and the bartender 27 years later, living happily as a retired couple. Zemeckis thought the ending was too happy and opted for the darker ending featured in the final cut. Ullman was one of five actors with speaking roles in the film to be eliminated. Other scenes that were eliminated included one in which Madeline talks to her agent (Jonathan Silverman) and one in which Ernest removes a frozen Madeline from the kitchen freezer he has stored her in. None of the scenes have been released publicly, but sequences can still be viewed in the original theatrical trailer.\n\nThe score was composed by American film composer Alan Silvestri, who also composed scores of other films directed by Zemeckis.\nThe film received mixed reviews. Rotten Tomatoes gives the film a rating of 54% based on reviews from 28 critics. Audiences polled by CinemaScore gave the film an average grade of \"B\" on an A+ to F scale.\n\nGene Siskel and Roger Ebert both gave the film a 'thumbs down', commenting that while the film had great special effects, it lacked any real substance or character depth.\n\nThe film's release on DVD was called \"appallingly bad\", \"horrible\" and \"sloppy\" due to the quality of its transfer, which has been said to suffer from excessive grain, blur, and muted colors. Many online DVD forum users speculated that the DVD transfer was taken from the Laserdisc edition of the film and called for a restorative release. The film was initially distributed in an open-matte, edition with an aspect ratio of 1.33:1 in the United States before a widescreen version with its intended ratio (1.85:1) was released and subsequently distributed worldwide. The latter version has also been mistakenly labelled anamorphic. It was later released in North America on Blu-ray from Shout Factory on April 26, 2016.\n\nThe film opened at number one at the box office with $12,110,355 on the same weekend as and ahead of \"Buffy the Vampire Slayer\" and \"Bebe's Kids\". It went on to earn over $58.4 million domestically and $90.6 million internationally.\n\n\"Death Becomes Her\" has acquired a significant cult following, especially in the LGBT community. An article in \"Vanity Fair\" titled \"The Gloriously Queer Afterlife of 'Death Becomes Her'\" called the film a \"gay cult classic\" and \"a touchstone of the queer community\". The movie is screened in bars during Pride Month, while the characters of Madeline and Helen are favorites of drag performers. In this vein, the movie inspired a \"Death Becomes Her\"-themed runway show on season 7 of \"RuPaul's Drag Race\". The winner of season 5, Jinkx Monsoon, has cited it with inspiring them to become a drag queen, and to that end they have participated in \"Death Becomes Her\"-themed photoshoots, and in 2018 played Madeline in a drag stage show parody called \"Drag Becomes Her\".\n\nTom Campbell, an executive producer of \"RuPaul's Drag Race\", reflected on the appeal of the movie to gay audiences: \n\nIn December 2017, Kristin Chenoweth was announced to be starring in a Broadway musical adaptation of \"Death Becomes Her\".\n\n"}
{"id": "50670925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50670925", "title": "Ellen Martin Henrotin", "text": "Ellen Martin Henrotin\n\nEllen Martin Henrotin (6 July 1847 - 29 June 1922) was a wealthy American society matron, labor reform activist, club leader and social reformer affiliated with social welfare and suffrage movements.\n\nHenrotin was born on 6 July 1847 in Portland, Maine, the daughter of Edward Byam and Sarah Ellen Martin, and the second of six children. During her youth, she lived in England, and attended schools in London, Paris, and Dresden, 1860-68. Returning to the US in 1868, she married Charles Henrotin, one of the founders of the Chicago Stock Exchange, on September 2, 1869 in Chicago. Their children were Edward Clement (born 1871), Charles Martin (born 1876), and Morris Bates (born 1885).\n\nShe served as Vice President of the Congress Auxiliary of the World's Columbian Exposition, 1893; President of the General Federation of Women's Clubs, 1894-98; President of Fortnightly Club of Chicago; as well as Trustee, University of Illinois, 1912-17. She was decorated by the Sultan of Turkey with the order of the Chefakat, 1893; made an Officier de 1'Académie by the French Republic, 1899; decorated by Leopold II, Chevalier de l'Ordre de Léopold, 1904. She was a member of the Friday Club; Chicago Woman's Club; and Woman's City Club. \n\nHenrotin lived at 1215 Madison Avenue, in New York City. She died on 29 June 1922 in Cherry Plain, New York.\n\n"}
{"id": "1151595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1151595", "title": "Escapism", "text": "Escapism\n\nEscapism is the avoidance of unpleasant, boring, arduous, scary, or banal aspects of daily life. It can also be used as a term to define the actions people take to help relieve persistent feelings of depression or general sadness.\n\nEntire industries have sprung up to foster a growing tendency of people to remove themselves from the rigors of daily life – especially into the digital world. Many activities that are normal parts of a healthy existence (e.g., eating, sleeping, exercise, sexual activity) can also become avenues of escapism when taken to extremes or out of proper context; and as a result the word \"escapism\" often carries a negative connotation, suggesting that escapists are unhappy, with an inability or unwillingness to connect meaningfully with the world and to take necessary action. Indeed, the OED defined escapism as \"The tendency to seek, or the practice of seeking, distraction from what normally has to be endured\".\n\nHowever, many challenge the idea that escapism is fundamentally and exclusively negative. C. S. Lewis was fond of humorously remarking that the usual enemies of escape were jailers; and considered that used in moderation escapism could serve both to refresh and to expand the imaginative powers. Similarly J. R. R. Tolkien argued for escapism in fantasy literature as the creative expression of reality within a secondary (imaginative) world, (but also emphasised that they required an element of horror in them, if they were not to be 'mere escapism'). Terry Pratchett considered that the twentieth century had seen the development over time of a more positive view of escapist literature. Apart from literature, music has been seen and valued as an artistic medium of escape, too.\n\nFreud considered a quota of escapist fantasy a necessary element in the life of humans: \"[T]hey cannot subsist on the scanty satisfaction they can extort from reality. 'We simply cannot do without auxiliary constructions', Theodor Fontane once said\". His followers saw rest and wish fulfilment (in small measures) as useful tools in adjusting to traumatic upset; while later psychologists have highlighted the role of vicarious distractions in shifting unwanted moods, especially anger and sadness.\n\nHowever, if permanent residence is taken up in some such psychic retreats, the results will often be negative and even pathological. Drugs cause some forms of escapism which can occur when certain mind-altering drugs are taken which make the participant forget the reality of where they are or what they are meant to be doing.\n\nSome social critics warn of attempts by the powers that control society to provide means of escapism instead of actually bettering the condition of the people – what Juvenal called “bread and the games”. Escapist societies appear often in literature. \"The Time Machine\" depicts the Eloi, a lackadaisical, insouciant race of the future, and the horror their happy lifestyle belies. The novel subtly criticizes capitalism, or at least classism, as a means of escape. Escapist societies are common in dystopian novels; for example, in the \"Fahrenheit 451\" society, television and \"seashell radios\" are used to escape a life with strict regulations and the threat of a forthcoming war. In science fiction media escapism is often depicted as an extension of social evolution, as society becomes detached from physical reality and processing into a virtual one, examples include the virtual world of Oz in the 2009 Japanese animated science fiction anime \"Summer Wars\" and the game \"Society\" in the 2009 American science fiction film \"Gamer\", a play on the real-life MMO game \"Second Life\". Other escapist societies in literature include \"The Reality Bug\" by D. J. McHale, where an entire civilization leaves their world in ruin while they 'jump' into their perfect realities. The aim of the anti hero becomes a quest to make their realities seemingly less perfect in order to regain control over their dying planet.\n\nSocial philosopher Ernst Bloch wrote that utopias and images of fulfilment, however regressive they might be, also included an impetus for a radical social change. According to Bloch, social justice could not be realized without seeing things fundamentally differently. Something that is mere \"daydreaming\" or \"escapism\" from the viewpoint of a technological-rational society might be a seed for a new and more humane social order, as it can be seen as an \"immature, but honest substitute for revolution\".\n\nThe Norwegian psychologist Frode Stenseng has presented a dualistic model of escapism in relation to different types of activity engagements. He discusses the paradox that the flow state (Csikszentmihalyi) resembles psychological states obtainable through actions such as drug abuse, sexual masochism, and suicide ideation (Baumeister). Accordingly, he deduces that the state of escape can have both positive and negative meanings and outcomes. Stenseng argues that there exist two forms of escapism with different affective outcomes dependent on the motivational focus that lies behind the immersion in the activity. Escapism in the form of self-suppression stems from motives to run away from unpleasant thoughts, self-perceptions, and emotions, whereas self-expansion stems from motives to gain positive experiences through the activity and to discover new aspects of self. Stenseng has developed the \"escape scale\" to measure self-suppression and self-expansion in people´s favorite activities, such as sports, arts, and gaming. Empirical investigations of the model have shown that:\n\nAlan Brinkley, author of \"Culture and Politics in the Great Depression\", presents how escapism became the new trend for dealing with the hardships created by the stock market crash in 1929: magazines, radio and movies, all were aimed to help people mentally escape from the mass poverty and economic downturn. \"Life\" magazine, which became hugely popular during the 1930s, was said to have pictures that give \"no indication that there was such a thing as depression; most of the pictures are of bathing beauties and ship launchings and building projects and sports heroes – of almost anything but poverty and unemployment”. Famous director Preston Sturges aimed to validate this notion by creating a film called \"Sullivan's Travels\". The film ends with a group of poor destitute men in jail watching a comedic Mickey Mouse cartoon that ultimately lifts their spirits. Sturges aims to point out how \"foolish and vain and self-indulgent\" it would be to make a film about suffering. Therefore, movies of the time more often than not focused on comedic plot lines that distanced people emotionally from the horrors that were occurring all around them. These films \"consciously, deliberately set out to divert people from their problems\", but it also diverted them from the problems of those around them.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11664", "title": "Fantastic Four", "text": "Fantastic Four\n\nThe Fantastic Four is a fictional superhero team appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. The group debuted in \"The Fantastic Four\" #1 (cover dated Nov. 1961), which helped to usher in a new level of realism in the medium. The Fantastic Four was the first superhero team created by editor/co-plotter Stan Lee and artist/co-plotter Jack Kirby, who developed a collaborative approach to creating comics with this title that they would use from then on.\n\nThe four individuals traditionally associated with the Fantastic Four, who gained superpowers after exposure to cosmic rays during a scientific mission to outer space, are Mister Fantastic (Reed Richards), a scientific genius and the leader of the group, who can stretch his body into incredible lengths and shapes; the Invisible Girl (Susan \"Sue\" Storm; later \"Invisible Woman\"), who eventually married Reed, who can render herself invisible and later project powerful invisible force fields; the Human Torch (Johnny Storm), Sue's younger brother, who can generate flames, surround himself with them and fly; and the monstrous Thing (Ben Grimm), their grumpy but benevolent friend, a former college football star and Reed's college roommate as well as a good pilot, who possesses tremendous superhuman strength, durability, and endurance due to the nature of his stone-like flesh.\n\nSince their original 1961 introduction, the Fantastic Four have been portrayed as a somewhat dysfunctional, yet loving, family. Breaking convention with other comic book archetypes of the time, they would squabble and hold grudges both deep and petty and eschewed anonymity or secret identities in favor of celebrity status. The team is also well known for its recurring encounters with characters such as the villainous monarch Doctor Doom, the planet-devouring Galactus, the sea-dwelling prince Namor, the spacefaring Silver Surfer and the shape-changing alien Skrulls.\n\nThe Fantastic Four have been adapted into other media, including four animated series and four live-action films.\n\nApocryphal legend has it that in 1961, longtime magazine and comic book publisher Martin Goodman was playing golf with either Jack Liebowitz or Irwin Donenfeld of rival company DC Comics, then known as National Periodical Publications, and that the top executive bragged about DC's success with the new superhero team the Justice League of America. While film producer and comics historian Michael Uslan has debunked the particulars of that story, Goodman, a publishing trend-follower, aware of the JLA's strong sales, did direct his comics editor, Stan Lee, to create a comic-book series about a team of superheroes. According to Lee, writing in 1974, \"Martin mentioned that he had noticed one of the titles published by National Comics seemed to be selling better than most. It was a book called \"The\" \"Justice League of America\" and it was composed of a team of superheroes. ... 'If the Justice League is selling', spoke he, 'why don't we put out a comic book that features a team of superheroes?'\"\n\nLee, who had served as editor-in-chief and art director of Marvel Comics and its predecessor companies, Timely Comics and Atlas Comics, for two decades, found that the medium had become creatively restrictive. Determined \"to carve a real career for myself in the nowhere world of comic books\", Lee concluded that, \"For just this once, I would do the type of story I myself would enjoy reading... And the characters would be the kind of characters I could personally relate to: they'd be flesh and blood, they'd have their faults and foibles, they'd be fallible and feisty, and — most important of all — inside their colorful, costumed booties they'd still have feet of clay.\"\n\nLee said he created a synopsis for the first Fantastic Four story that he gave to penciller Jack Kirby, who then drew the entire story. Kirby turned in his penciled art pages to Lee, who added dialogue and captions. This approach to creating comics, which became known as the \"Marvel Method\", worked so well for Lee and Kirby that they used it from then on; the Marvel Method became standard for the company within a year.\n\nKirby recalled events somewhat differently. Challenged with Lee's version of events in a 1990 interview, Kirby responded: \"I would say that's an outright lie\", although the interviewer, Gary Groth, notes that this statement needs to be viewed with caution. Kirby claims he came up with the idea for the Fantastic Four in Marvel's offices, and that Lee had merely added the dialogue after the story had been pencilled. Kirby also sought to establish, more credibly and on numerous occasions, that the visual elements of the strip were his conceptions. He regularly pointed to a team he had created for rival publisher DC Comics in the 1950s, the Challengers of the Unknown. \"[I]f you notice the uniforms, they're the same... I always give them a skintight uniform with a belt... the Challengers and the FF have a minimum of decoration. And of course, the Thing's skin is a kind of decoration, breaking up the monotony of the blue uniform.\" The chest insignia of a \"4\" within a circle, however, was designed by Lee. The characters wear no uniforms in the first two issues.\n\nGiven the conflicting statements, outside commentators have found it hard to identify with precise detail who created the Fantastic Four. Although Stan Lee's typed synopsis for the Fantastic Four exists, Earl Wells, writing in \"The Comics Journal\", points out that its existence does not assert its place in the creation: \"[W]e have no way of knowing of whether Lee wrote the synopsis after a discussion with Kirby in which Kirby supplied most of the ideas\". Comics historian R. C. Harvey believes that the Fantastic Four was a furtherance of the work Kirby had been doing previously, and so \"more likely Kirby's creations than Lee's\". But Harvey notes that the Marvel Method of collaboration allowed each man to claim credit, and that Lee's dialogue added to the direction the team took. Wells argues that it was Lee's contributions which set the framework within which Kirby worked, and this made Lee \"more responsible\". Comics historian Mark Evanier, a studio assistant to Jack Kirby in the 1970s, says that the considered opinion of Lee and Kirby's contemporaries was \"that \"Fantastic Four\" was created by Stan and Jack. No further division of credit seemed appropriate\".\n\nThe release of \"The Fantastic Four\" #1 (Nov. 1961) was an unexpected success. Lee had felt ready to leave the comics field at the time, but the positive response to \"Fantastic Four\" persuaded him to stay on. The title began to receive fan mail and Lee started printing the letters in a letter column with issue #3. Also with the third issue, Lee created the hyperbolic slogan \"The Greatest Comic Magazine in the World!!\" With the following issue, the slogan was changed to \"The World's Greatest Comic Magazine!\" and became a fixture on the issue covers into the 1990s, and on numerous covers in the 2000s.\n\nIssue #4 (May 1962) reintroduced Namor the Sub-Mariner, an aquatic antihero who was a star character of Marvel's earliest iteration, Timely Comics, during the late 1930s and 1940s period that historians and fans call the Golden Age of Comics. Issue #5 (July 1962) introduced the team's most frequent nemesis, Doctor Doom. These earliest issues were published bimonthly. With issue #16 (July 1963), the cover title dropped its \"The\" and became simply \"Fantastic Four\".\n\nWhile the early stories were complete narratives, the frequent appearances of these two antagonists, Doom and Namor, in subsequent issues indicated the creation of a long narrative by Lee and Kirby that extended over months. According to comics historian Les Daniels, \"only narratives that ran to several issues would be able to contain their increasingly complex ideas\". During its creators' lengthy run, the series produced many acclaimed storylines and characters that have become central to Marvel, including the hidden race of alien-human genetic experiments, the Inhumans; the Black Panther, an African king who would be mainstream comics' first black superhero; the rival alien races the Kree and the shapeshifting Skrulls; Him, who would become Adam Warlock; the Negative Zone and unstable molecules. The story frequently cited as Lee and Kirby's finest achievement is the three-part \"Galactus Trilogy\" that began in \"Fantastic Four\" #48 (March 1966), chronicling the arrival of Galactus, a cosmic giant who wanted to devour the planet, and his herald, the Silver Surfer. \"Fantastic Four\" #48 was chosen as #24 in the 100 Greatest Marvels of All Time poll of Marvel's readers in 2001. Editor Robert Greenberger wrote in his introduction to the story that, \"As the fourth year of the Fantastic Four came to a close, Stan Lee and Jack Kirby seemed to be only warming up. In retrospect, it was perhaps the most fertile period of any monthly title during the Marvel Age.\" Daniels noted that \"[t]he mystical and metaphysical elements that took over the saga were perfectly suited to the tastes of young readers in the 1960s\", and Lee soon discovered that the story was a favorite on college campuses. The \"Fantastic Four Annual\" was used to spotlight several key events. The Sub-Mariner was crowned king of Atlantis in the first annual (1963). The following year's annual revealed the origin story of Doctor Doom. \"Fantastic Four Annual\" #3 (1965) presented the wedding of Reed Richards and Sue Storm. Lee and Kirby reintroduced the original Human Torch in \"Fantastic Four Annual\" #4 (1966) and had him battle Johnny Storm. Sue Richards' pregnancy was announced in \"Fantastic Four Annual\" #5 (1967), and the Richards' son, Franklin Richards was born in \"Fantastic Four Annual\" #6 (1968) in a story which introduced Annihilus as well.\n\nMarvel filed for a trademark for \"Fantastic Four\" in 1967 and the United States Patent and Trademark Office issued the registration in 1970.\n\nKirby left Marvel in mid-1970, having drawn the first 102 issues plus an unfinished issue, partially published in \"Fantastic Four\" #108, with alterations, and later completed and published as \"Fantastic Four: The Lost Adventure\" (April 2008), \"Fantastic Four\" continued with Lee, Roy Thomas, Gerry Conway and Marv Wolfman as its consecutive regular writers, working with artists such as John Romita Sr., John Buscema, Rich Buckler and George Pérez, with longtime inker Joe Sinnott adding some visual continuity. Jim Steranko also contributed some covers during this time. A short-lived series starring the team, \"Giant-Size Super-Stars\", began in May 1974 and changed its title to \"Giant-Size Fantastic Four\" with issue #2. The fourth issue introduced Jamie Madrox, a character who later became part of the X-Men. \"Giant-Size Fantastic Four\" was canceled with issue #6 (Oct. 1975). Roy Thomas and George Pérez crafted a metafictional story for \"Fantastic Four\" #176 (Nov. 1976) in which the Impossible Man visited the offices of Marvel Comics and met numerous comics creators. Marv Wolfman and Keith Pollard crafted a multi-issue storyline involving the son of Doctor Doom which culminated in issue #200 (Nov. 1978). John Byrne joined the title with issue #209 (Aug. 1979), doing pencil breakdowns for Sinnott to finish. He and Wolfman introduced a new herald for Galactus named Terrax the Tamer in #211 (Oct. 1979).\n\nBill Mantlo briefly followed Wolfman as writer of the series and wrote a crossover with \"Peter Parker, The Spectacular Spider-Man\" #42 (May 1980). Byrne wrote and drew a giant-sized Fantastic Four promotional comic for Coca-Cola, which was rejected by Coca-Cola as being too violent and published as \"Fantastic Four\" #220–221 (July–Aug. 1980) instead. Writer Doug Moench and penciller Bill Sienkiewicz then took over for 10 issues. With issue #232 (July 1981), the aptly titled \"Back to the Basics\", Byrne began his run as writer, penciller and inker, the last under the pseudonym Bjorn Heyn for this issue only.\n\nByrne revitalized the slumping title with his run. Originally, Byrne was slated to write with Sienkiewicz providing the art. Sienkiewicz left to do \"Moon Knight\", and Byrne subsequently became writer, artist, and inker. Various editors were assigned to the comic; eventually Bob Budiansky became the regular editor. Byrne told Jim Shooter that he could not work with Budiansky, although they ultimately continued to work together. In 2006, Byrne said \"that's my paranoia. I look back and I think that was Shooter trying to force me off the book\". Byrne left following issue #293 (Aug. 1986) in the middle of a story arc, explaining he could not recapture the fun he had previously had on the series. One of Byrne's changes was making the Invisible Girl into the Invisible Woman: assertive and confident. During this period, fans came to recognize that she was quite powerful, whereas previously, she had been primarily seen as a superpowered mother and wife in the tradition of television moms like those played by Donna Reed and Florence Henderson.\n\nByrne staked new directions in the characters' personal lives, having the married Sue Storm and Reed Richards suffer a miscarriage and the Thing quitting the Fantastic Four, with She-Hulk being recruited as his long-term replacement. He also re-emphasized the family dynamic which he felt the series had drifted away from after the Lee/Kirby run, commenting that, \"\"Family\"—and not \"dysfunctional family\"—is the central, key element to the FF. It is an absolutely vital dynamic between the characters.\" [emphases in original]\n\nByrne was followed by a quick succession of writers: Roger Stern, Tom DeFalco, and Roy Thomas. Steve Englehart took over as writer for issues 304–332 (except #320). The title had been struggling, so Englehart decided to make radical changes. He felt the title had become stale with the normal makeup of Reed, Sue, Ben, and Johnny, so in issue #308 Reed and Sue retired and were replaced with the Thing's new girlfriend, Sharon Ventura, and Johnny Storm's former love, Crystal. The changes increased readership through issue #321. At this point, Marvel made decisions about another Englehart comic, \"West Coast Avengers\", that he disagreed with, and in protest he changed his byline to S.F.X. Englehart (S.F.X. is the abbreviation for Simple Sound Effects). In issue #326, Englehart was told to bring Reed and Sue back and undo the other changes he had made. This caused Englehart to take his name entirely off the book. He used the pseudonym John Harkness, which he had created years before for work he didn't want to be associated with. According to Englehart, the run from #326 through his last issue, #332, was \"one of the most painful stretches of [his] career.\" Writer-artist Walt Simonson took over as writer with #334 (December 1989), and three issues later began pencilling and inking as well. With brief inking exceptions, two fill-in issues, and a three-issue stint drawn by Arthur Adams, Simonson remained in all three positions through #354 (July 1991).\n\nSimonson, who had been writing the team comic \"The Avengers\", had gotten approval for Reed and Sue to join that team after Engelhart had written them out of \"Fantastic Four\". Yet by \"The Avengers\" #300, where they were scheduled to join the team, Simonson was told the characters were returning to \"Fantastic Four\". This led to Simonson quitting \"The Avengers\" after that issue. Shortly afterward, he was offered the job of writing \"Fantastic Four\". Having already prepared a number of stories involving the Avengers with Reed and Sue in the lineup, he then rewrote these for \"Fantastic Four\". Simonson later recalled that working on \"Fantastic Four\" allowed him the latitude to use original Avengers members Thor and Iron Man, which he had been precluded from using in \"The Avengers\".\n\nAfter another fill-in, the regular team of writer and Marvel editor-in-chief Tom DeFalco, penciller Paul Ryan and inker Dan Bulanadi took over, with Ryan self-inking beginning with #360 (Jan. 1992). That team, with the very occasional different inker, continued for years through #414 (July 1996). DeFalco nullified the Storm-Masters marriage by retconning that the alien Skrull Empire had kidnapped the real Masters and replaced her with a spy named Lyja. Once discovered, Lyja, who herself had fallen for Storm, helped the Fantastic Four rescue Masters. Ventura departed after being further mutated by Doctor Doom. Although some fans were not pleased with DeFalco's run on \"Fantastic Four\", calling him \"The Great Satan\", the title's sales increased over the period.\n\nOther key developments included Franklin Richards being sent into the future and returning as a teenager; the return of Reed's time-traveling father, Nathaniel, who is revealed to be the father of time-travelling villain Kang the Conqueror and Reed's apparent death at the hands of a seemingly mortally wounded Doctor Doom. It would be two years before DeFalco resurrected the two characters, revealing that their \"deaths\" were orchestrated by the supervillain Hyperstorm.\n\nThe ongoing series was canceled with issue #416 (Sept. 1996) and relaunched with vol. 2, #1 (Nov. 1996) as part of the multi-series \"Heroes Reborn\" crossover story arc. The yearlong volume retold the team's first adventures in a more contemporary style, and set in a parallel universe. Following the end of that experiment, \"Fantastic Four\" was relaunched with vol. 3, #1 (Jan. 1998). Initially by the team of writer Scott Lobdell and penciller Alan Davis, it went after three issues to writer Chris Claremont (co-writing with Lobdell for #4–5) and penciller Salvador Larroca; this team enjoyed a long run through issue #32 (Aug. 2000).\n\nFollowing the run of Claremont, Lobdell and Larroca, Carlos Pacheco took over as penciller and co-writer, first with Rafael Marín, then with Marín and Jeph Loeb. This series began using dual numbering, as if the original \"Fantastic Four\" series had continued unbroken, with issue #42 / #471 (June 2001). At the time, the Marvel Comics series begun in the 1960s, such as \"Thor\" and \"The Amazing Spider-Man\", were given such dual numbering on the front cover, with the present-day volume's numbering alongside the numbering from the original series. After issue #70 / #499 (Aug. 2003), the title reverted to its original vol. 1 numbering with issue #500 (Sept. 2003).\n\nKarl Kesel succeeded Loeb as co-writer with issue #51 / #480 (March 2002), and after a few issues with temporary teams, Mark Waid took over as writer with #60 / 489 (October 2002) with artist Mike Wieringo with Marvel releasing a promotional variant edition of their otherwise $2.25 debut issue at the price of nine cents US. Pencillers Mark Buckingham, Casey Jones, and Howard Porter variously contributed through issue #524 (May 2005), with a handful of issues by other teams also during this time. Writer J. Michael Straczynski and penciller Mike McKone did issues #527–541 (July 2005 – Nov. 2006), with Dwayne McDuffie taking over as writer the following issue, and Paul Pelletier succeeding McKone beginning with #544 (May 2007).\n\nAs a result of the events of the \"Civil War\" company-crossover storyline, the Black Panther and Storm temporarily replaced Reed and Susan Richards on the team. During that period, the Fantastic Four also appeared in \"Black Panther\", written by Reginald Hudlin and pencilled primarily by Francis Portela. Beginning with issue #554 (April 2008), writer Mark Millar and penciller Bryan Hitch began what Marvel announced as a sixteen-issue run. Following the summer 2008 crossover storyline, \"Secret Invasion\", and the 2009 aftermath \"Dark Reign\", chronicling the U.S. government's assigning of the Nation's security functions to the seemingly reformed supervillain Norman Osborn, the Fantastic Four starred in a five-issue miniseries, \"Dark Reign: Fantastic Four\" (May–Sept. 2009), written by Jonathan Hickman, with art by Sean Chen. Hickman took over as the series regular writer as of issue #570 with Dale Eaglesham and later Steve Epting on art.\n\nIn the storyline \"Three\", which concluded in \"Fantastic Four\" #587 (cover date March 2011, published January 26, 2011), the Human Torch appears to die stopping a horde of monsters from the other-dimensional Negative Zone. The series ended with the following issue, #588, and relaunched in March 2011 as simply \"FF\". The relaunch saw the team assume a new name, the Future Foundation, adopt new black-and-white costumes, and accept longtime ally Spider-Man as a member. In October 2011, with the publication of \"FF\" #11 (cover-dated Dec. 2011), the \"Fantastic Four\" series reached its 599th issue.\n\nIn November 2011, to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the Fantastic Four and of Marvel Comics, the company published the 100-page \"Fantastic Four\" #600 (cover-dated Jan. 2012), which returned the title to its original numbering and featured the return of the Human Torch. It revealed the fate of the character of Johnny Storm after issue #587, showing that while he did in fact die, he was resurrected to fight as a gladiator for the entertainment of Annihilus. Storm later formed a resistance force called Light Brigade and defeated Annihilus.\n\nAlthough it was launched as a continuation of the \"Fantastic Four\" title, \"FF\" continues publication as a separate series. Starting with issue #12, the title focuses upon the youthful members of the Future Foundation, including Franklin and Valeria Richards.\n\nIn the graphic novel \"Fantastic Four: Season One\", the Fantastic Four is given an updated origin story set in the present day instead of the 1960s. The hardcover compilation debuted at number four on \"The New York Times\" Best Seller list for graphic novels.\n\nAs part of Marvel NOW! \"Fantastic Four\" ended with #611, ending Jonathan Hickman's long run on \"FF\" titles, and the title was relaunched in November 2012 with the creative team of writer Matt Fraction and artist Mark Bagley. In the new title with its numbering starting at #1, the entire Fantastic Four family explore space together, with the hidden intent for Reed Richards to discover why his powers are fading.\n\nWriter James Robinson and artist Leonard Kirk launched a new \"Fantastic Four\" series in February 2014 (cover dated April 2014).\n\nRobinson later confirmed that \"Fantastic Four\" would be cancelled in 2015 with issue #645, saying that \"The book is reverting to its original numbers, and the book is going away for a while. I'm moving towards the end of \"Fantastic Four\". I just want to reassure people that you will not leave this book with a bad taste in your mouth.\" In the aftermath of the \"Secret Wars\" storyline, the Thing is working with the Guardians of the Galaxy and the Human Torch is acting as an ambassador with the Inhumans. With Franklin's powers restored and Reed having absorbed the power of the Beyonders from Doom, the Richards family is working on travelling through and reconstructing the multiverse, but Peter Parker has purchased the Baxter Building to keep it \"safe\" until the team is ready to come back together.\n\nA new volume for the Fantastic Four was released in August 2018, written by Dan Slott, as part of Marvel's Fresh Start event. The first issue of the new series was met with strong sales, and moderate critical success. When the Future Foundation is threatened by the Griever at the End of All Things, Mister Fantastic plays on her ego to convince her to provide him with equipment that will allow him to summon his fellow teammates. When Human Torch and Thing are reunited with Mister Fantastic and Invisible Woman, the other superheroes that were part of the Fantastic Four at some point in their lives also arrived. With the gathered heroes assisted the Fantastic Four into causing so much damage to the Griever's equipment, she is forced to retreat in her final telepod or be trapped in that universe. This left the heroes to salvage components from the broken ship to create their own teleport system to return to their universe. The Fantastic Four and their extended family returned to Earth where they find that Liberteens members Ms. America, 2-D, Hope, and Iceberg have come together as the Fantastix with Ms. America taking the codename of Ms. Fantastix. Following the staged bank robbery that the Wrecking Crew committed, the Fantastic Four gave the Fantastix their blessing to continue using the Baxter Building.\n\nAncillary titles and features spun off from the flagship series include the 1970s quarterly \"Giant-Size Fantastic Four\" and the 1990s \"Fantastic Four Unlimited\" and \"Fantastic Four Unplugged\"; \"Fantastic Force\", an 18-issue spinoff (November 1994 – April 1996) featuring an adult Franklin Richards, from a different timeline, as Psi-Lord. A 12-issue series \"Fantastic Four: The World's Greatest Comics Magazine\" ran in 2001, paying homage to Stan Lee and Jack Kirby's legendary run. A spinoff title \"Marvel Knights 4\" (April 2004 – August 2006) was written by Roberto Aguirre-Sacasa and initially illustrated by Steve McNiven in his first Marvel work. As well, there have been numerous limited series featuring the group.\n\nIn 1996, Marvel launched \"Fantastic Four 2099\". The series was part of the company's Marvel 2099 imprint, which explored an alternate future of the Marvel Universe. The four protagonists inexplicably find themselves in 2099, with the world believing them to be clones of the original members of the Fantastic Four. The series ran for 8 issues (Jan. – Aug. 1996), serving as a companion to \"Doom 2099\"—an original Marvel 2099 title which featured an individual claiming to be the original Victor von Doom.\n\nIn 2004, Marvel launched \"Ultimate Fantastic Four\". As part of the company's Ultimate Marvel imprint, the series re-imagined the team as teenagers. The series ran for 60 issues (Feb. 2004 – Feb. 2009). In 2008, Marvel also launched \"Marvel Adventures: Fantastic Four\", an out-of-continuity series aimed at younger readers.\n\nAlthough it was launched by Marvel as a continuation of the Fantastic Four title in 2011, \"FF\" continued publication as a separate series after the regular series resumed in 2012. From issues #12, the title focused upon the youthful members of the Future Foundation, including Franklin and Valeria Richards. A second volume was launched as part of Marvel NOW! by Matt Fraction and Mike Allred depicting a substitute Fantastic Four team starring Scott Lang, Medusa, She-Hulk, and Ms. Thing.\n\nThe Human Torch was given a solo strip in \"Strange Tales\" in 1962 in order to bolster sales of the title. The series began in \"Strange Tales\" #101 (October 1962), in 12- to 14-page stories plotted by Lee and initially scripted by his brother, Larry Lieber, and drawn by penciller Kirby and inker Dick Ayers.\n\nHere, Johnny was seen living with his older sister, Susan, in fictional Glenview, Long Island, New York, where he continued high school and, with youthful naiveté, attempted to maintain a \"secret identity\". In \"Strange Tales\" #106 (March 1963), Johnny discovered that his friends and neighbors knew of his dual identity all along, from Fantastic Four news reports, but were humoring him. Supporting characters included Johnny's girlfriend, Doris Evans, usually in consternation as Johnny cheerfully flew off to battle bad guys. She was seen again in a 1973 issue of \"Fantastic Four\", having become a heavyset but cheerful wife and mother. Ayers took over the penciling after ten issues, later followed by original Golden Age Human Torch creator Carl Burgos and others. The Fantastic Four made occasional cameo appearances, and the Thing became a co-star with issue #123 (Aug. 1964).\n\nThe Human Torch shared the split book \"Strange Tales\" with fellow feature Doctor Strange for the majority of its run, before being replaced in issue #135 (August 1965) by Nick Fury, Agent of S.H.I.E.L.D.. The Silver Age stories were republished in 1974, along with some Golden Age Human Torch stories, in a short-lived ongoing \"Human Torch\" series.\n\nA later ongoing solo series in Marvel's manga-influenced Tsunami imprint, \"Human Torch\", ran 12 issues (June 2003 – June 2004), followed by the five-issue limited series \"Spider-Man/Human Torch\" (March–July 2005), an untold tales team-up arc spanning the course of their friendship.\n\nThe Thing appeared in two team-up issues of \"Marvel Feature\" (#11–12, September–November 1973). Following their success, he was given his own regular team-up title \"Marvel Two-in-One\", co-starring with Marvel heroes not only in the present day but occasionally in other time periods (fighting alongside the World War II-era Liberty Legion in #20 and the 1930s hero Doc Savage in #21, for example) and in alternate realities. The series ran 100 issues (January 1974 – June 1983), with seven summer annuals (1976–1982) and was immediately followed by the solo title \"The Thing\" #1–36 (July 1983 – June 1986). Another ongoing solo series, also titled \"The Thing\", ran eight issues (January–August 2006).\n\nThe Fantastic Four is formed after four civilian astronauts are exposed to cosmic rays during an unauthorized outer space test flight in an experimental rocket ship designed by Dr. Reed Richards. Pilot Ben Grimm and crew-members Susan Storm and her brother Johnny Storm survive an emergency crash-landing in a field on Earth. Upon exiting the rocket, the four discover they have developed incredible superpowers, and decide to use these powers to help others.\n\nIn the first issue the crew talks about Reed Richards' rocketship flying to the stars. Stan Lee's original synopsis described the crew's plan to fly to Mars, but Lee later shortly afterward wrote that due to \"the rate the Communists are progressing in space, maybe we better make this a flight to the STARS, instead of just to Mars, because by the time this mag goes on sale, the Russians may have already MADE a flight to Mars!\"\n\nIn a significant departure from preceding superhero conventions, the Fantastic Four make no effort to maintain secret identities or, until issue #3, to wear superhero costumes, instead maintaining a public profile and enjoying celebrity status for scientific and heroic contributions to society. At the same time, they are often prone to arguing and even fighting with one another. Despite their bickering, the Fantastic Four consistently prove themselves to be \"a cohesive and formidable team in times of crisis.\"\n\nWhile there have been a number of lineup changes to the group, the four characters who debuted in \"Fantastic Four\" #1 remain the core and most frequent lineup.\n\nThe Fantastic Four has had several different headquarters, most notably the Baxter Building, located at 42nd Street and Madison Avenue in New York City. The Baxter Building was replaced by Four Freedoms Plaza at the same location after its destruction at the hands of Kristoff Vernard, adopted son of the team's seminal foe Doctor Doom. (Prior to the completion of Four Freedoms Plaza, the team took up temporary residence at Avengers Mansion.) Pier 4, a waterfront warehouse, served as a temporary headquarters after Four Freedoms Plaza was destroyed by the ostensible superhero team the Thunderbolts shortly after the revelation that they were actually the supervillain team the Masters of Evil in disguise. Pier 4 was eventually destroyed during a battle with the longtime Fantastic Four supervillain Diablo, after which the team received a new Baxter Building, courtesy of one of team leader Reed Richards' former professors, Noah Baxter. This second Baxter Building was constructed in Earth's orbit and teleported into the vacant lot formerly occupied by the original.\n\nA number of characters are closely affiliated with the team, share complex personal histories with one or more of its members but have never actually held an official membership. Some of these characters include, but are not limited to: Namor the Sub-Mariner (previously an antagonist), Alicia Masters, Lyja the Lazerfist, H.E.R.B.I.E., Kristoff Vernard (Doctor Doom's former protégé), Wyatt Wingfoot, Sue and Johnny's father Franklin Storm, the receptionist android Roberta, governess Agatha Harkness, and Reed and Sue's children Franklin Richards and Valeria Richards.\n\nSeveral allies of the Fantastic Four have served as temporary members of the team, including Crystal, Medusa, Power Man (Luke Cage), Nova (Frankie Raye), She-Hulk, Ms. Marvel (Sharon Ventura), Ant-Man (Scott Lang), Namorita, Storm, and the Black Panther. A temporary lineup from \"Fantastic Four\" #347–349 (December 1990 – February 1991) consisted of the Hulk (in his \"Joe Fixit\" persona), Spider-Man, Wolverine, and Ghost Rider (Daniel Ketch).\n\nOther notable characters who have been involved with the Fantastic Four include Alyssa Moy, Caledonia (Alysande Stuart of Earth-9809), Fantastic Force, the Inhumans (particularly the royal family members Black Bolt, Crystal, Medusa, Gorgon, Karnak, Triton, and Lockjaw), Reed's father Nathaniel Richards, the Silver Surfer (previously an antagonist), Thundra, postal worker Willie Lumpkin, Baxter Building landlord Walter Collins, the Thing's rivals the Yancy Street Gang and Uatu the Watcher.\n\nAuthor Christopher Knowles states that Kirby's work on creations such as the Inhumans and the Black Panther served as \"a showcase of some of the most radical concepts in the history of the medium\".\n\nWriters and artists over many years have created a variety of characters to challenge the Fantastic Four. Knowles states that Kirby helped to create \"an army of villains whose rage and destructive power had never been seen before,\" and \"whose primary impulse is to smash the world.\" Some of the team's oldest and most frequent enmities have involved such foes as the Mole Man, the Skrulls, Namor the Sub-Mariner, Doctor Doom, the Puppet Master, Kang the Conqueror/Rama-Tut/Immortus, Blastaar, the Frightful Four, Annihilus, Galactus, and Klaw. Other prominent antagonists of the Fantastic Four have included the Wizard, the Impossible Man, the Red Ghost and the Super-Apes, the Mad Thinker, the Super-Skrull, the Molecule Man, Diablo, Dragon Man, Psycho-Man, Ronan the Accuser, Salem's Seven, Terrax the Tamer, Terminus, Hyperstorm and Lucia von Bardas.\n\nThe Fantastic Four's characterization was initially different from all other superheroes at the time. One major difference is that they do not conceal their identities, leading the public to be both suspicious and in awe of them. Also, they frequently argued and disagreed with each other, hindering their work as a team. Described as \"heroes with hangups\" by Stan Lee, the Thing has a temper, and the Human Torch resents being a child among adults. Mr. Fantastic blames himself for the Thing's transformation. Social scientist Bradford W. Wright describes the team as a \"volatile mix of human emotions and personalities\". In spite of their disagreements, they ultimately function well as a team.\n\nThe first issue of \"The Fantastic Four\" proved a success, igniting a new direction for superhero comics and soon influencing many other superhero comics. Readers grew fond of Ben's grumpiness, Johnny's tendency to annoy others and Reed and Sue's spats. Stan Lee was surprised at the reaction to the first issue, leading him to stay in the comics field despite previous plans to leave. Comics historian Stephen Krensky said that \"Lee's natural dialogue and flawed characters appealed to 1960s kids looking to 'get real'\".\n\nAs of 2005, 150 million comics featuring the Fantastic Four had been sold.\n\nThere have been four \"The Fantastic Four\" animated TV series and three released feature films. The Fantastic Four also guest-starred in the \"Secret Wars\" story arc of the 1990s \"Spider-Man\" animated series, and the Thing guest-starred (with a small cameo from the other Fantastic Four members) in the \"Fantastic Fortitude\" episode of the 1996 \"The Incredible Hulk\" series. The Fantastic Four also appeared in the 2012 series \"\".\n\nThere was a short-lived radio show in 1975 that adapted early Lee/Kirby stories and is notable for casting a pre-\"Saturday Night Live\" Bill Murray as the Human Torch. Also in the cast were Bob Maxwell as Reed Richards, Cynthia Adler as Sue Storm, Jim Pappas as Ben Grimm and Jerry Terheyden as Doctor Doom. Other Marvel characters featured in the series included Ant-Man, Prince Namor, Nick Fury and the Hulk. Stan Lee narrated the series and the scripts were taken almost verbatim from the comic books. The radio show was packaged into five-minute segments, with five segments comprising a complete adventure. The team appeared on the Power Records album \"Fantastic Four: \"The Way It Began\"\" book and record set, an audio dramatization of \"Fantastic Four\" #126.\n\nThe Fantastic Four has been the subject of four animated television series. The first, \"Fantastic Four\", produced by Hanna-Barbera, ran 20 episodes on ABC from September 9, 1967 to March 15, 1970. The second \"Fantastic Four\" series, produced by DePatie-Freleng, ran 13 episodes from September 9, 1978, to December 16, 1978; this series features a H.E.R.B.I.E. Unit in place of the Human Torch.\n\nThe third \"Fantastic Four\" was broadcast as part of \"The Marvel Action Hour\" umbrella, with introductions by Stan Lee. This series ran 26 episodes from September 24, 1994 to February 24, 1996. The fourth series, \"\", debuted on September 2, 2006, on Cartoon Network and ran for 26 episodes.\n\nIn 1979, the Thing was featured as half of the Saturday morning cartoon \"Fred and Barney Meet the Thing\". The character of the Thing received a radical make-over for the series. The title character for this program was Benjy Grimm, a teenage boy who possessed a pair of magic Thing-rings which could transform him into the Thing when he put them together and said \"Thing-ring, do your thing!\" The other members of the Fantastic Four do not appear in the series, nor do the animated \"The Flintstones\" stars Fred Flintstone and Barney Rubble, despite the title of the program.\n\nDifferent Fantastic Four members appear briefly and with little or no dialogue and are mentioned various times throughout the first season of \"\". The most expansive appearances are in the episode \"The Private War of Doctor Doom\", in which the Avengers team up with the Fantastic Four to battle the titular supervillain, and in the final episode of season two, in which the groups team up to battle Galactus. The Thing becomes a member of the New Avengers in episode 23 of season 2.\n\nThe Fantastic Four appear in the \"Hulk and the Agents of S.M.A.S.H.\" episode \"Monster No More.\" The Agents of S.M.A.S.H. assist the Fantastic Four in thwarting the Tribbitite Invasion.\n\nA film adaptation of the characters, \"The Fantastic Four\", was completed in 1994 by producer Roger Corman. The film was not released to theaters or on home video, but it has since been made available through bootleg video distributors. It was made because Constantin Film owned the film rights and would have lost them if it failed to begin production by a certain deadline, a tactic known as creating an ashcan copy. According to producer Bernd Eichinger, Avi Arad had Marvel purchase the film for a few million dollars.\n\nIn 2005, the second film adaptation, \"Fantastic Four\" directed by Tim Story, was released by 20th Century Fox. Despite mixed reviews from critics, it earned US$155 million in North America and $330 million worldwide. The sequel, \"\", directed by Story and written by Don Payne, was released in 2007. Despite mixed-to-negative reviews, the sequel earned $132 million in North America and a total of $330.6 million worldwide. Both films feature Ioan Gruffudd as Reed Richards / Mr. Fantastic, Jessica Alba as Susan Storm / Invisible Woman, Chris Evans as Johnny Storm / Human Torch, Michael Chiklis as Ben Grimm / The Thing, and Julian McMahon as Victor Von Doom / Dr. Doom. Stan Lee makes cameo appearances as the mailman Willie Lumpkin in the first film and as himself in the second film.\n\nA reboot directed by Josh Trank (also titled \"Fantastic Four\", but stylized as \"Fant4stic\") was released on August 7, 2015. The film stars Miles Teller as Reed Richards, Kate Mara as Sue Storm, Michael B. Jordan as Johnny Storm, Jamie Bell as Ben Grimm and Toby Kebbell as Doctor Doom. It is based on \"Ultimate Fantastic Four\". It earned poor reviews and box office results.\n\nIn 1985, the Fantastic Four starred in \"Questprobe #3 The Fantastic Four\", an adventure game from Adventure International for the Atari 8-bit series. In 1997, the group starred in the \"Fantastic Four\" video game. The team appeared in the \"\" video game, based on the 1990s Spider-Man animated series, for the Super NES and Sega Genesis. The Thing and the Human Torch appeared in the 2005 game \"\".\n\nAll of the Fantastic Four appear as playable characters in the game \"\" with Doctor Doom being the main enemy. The members of the Fantastic Four are also featured in \"\", although the team is separated over the course of the game, with Mister Fantastic being 'locked' into the Pro-Registration side of the game's storyline and the Thing briefly becoming unavailable to the player- just as he left America in protest of the war- until he returns to assist in preventing civilian casualties during the conflict.\n\nThe Human Torch has an appearance in a mini-game where the player races against him in all versions of \"Ultimate Spider-Man\", except on the Game Boy Advance platform. The Fantastic Four star in tie-in videogames based on the 2005 film \"Fantastic Four\" and . The Fantastic Four are also playable characters in \"Marvel Heroes\" and \"Lego Marvel Super Heroes\".\n\nThe Fantastic Four starred in their own virtual pinball game Fantastic Four for Pinball FX 2 released by Zen Studios.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50619050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50619050", "title": "FinTech in India", "text": "FinTech in India\n\nFinTech or financial technology has emerged as a relatively new industry in India. FinTech is an industry comprising companies that use technology to offer financial services. These companies operate in insurance, asset management and payment, and numerous other industries.\n\nAccording to the report of The National Association of Software and Services Companies (NASSCOM), India has a presence of approximately 400 companies in the fintech industry, with an investment of about $420 million (in 2015). The NASSCOM report also estimated the fintech software and services market to grow 1.7 times by 2020, making it worth $8 billion.\n\nThe Indian fintech landscape is segmented as follows – 34% in payment processing, followed by 32% in banking and 12% in the trading, public and private markets. accelerators and incubators tapping the startup ecosystem include PayPal’s Star Tank, Yes Bank’s collaboration with T-Hub, among others. Visakhapatnam (Vizag) is being developed as fintech valley and the local government of Andhra Pradesh had opened Fintech Valley to promote the investments in this area.\n"}
{"id": "1244968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1244968", "title": "First contact (anthropology)", "text": "First contact (anthropology)\n\nIn anthropology, first contact is the first meeting of two cultures previously unaware of one another. Notable examples of first contact are those between the Spanish Empire and the Arawak (and ultimately all of the Americas) in 1492; and the Aboriginal Australians with Europeans in 1788 when the First Fleet arrived in Sydney.\n\nSuch contact is sometimes described as a \"discovery\", such as the British and United States did with the legal theory using a \"Doctrine of Discovery. It is generally the more technologically complex society that is able to travel to new geographic regions to make contact with those more isolated, less technologically developed societies. However, some object to the application of such a word to human beings, which is why \"first contact\" is generally preferred. The use of the term \"discovery\" tends to occur more in reference to geography than cultures; for an example of a common discovery debate, see Discoverer of the Americas.\n\nThe historical record indicates that when one culture is significantly more technologically advanced than the other, this side will be favored by the disruptive nature of conflict, often with dire consequences for the other society. However the introduction of disease plays a critical role in this process. More isolated peoples who lived across broader territories in low density succumbed to the illnesses brought from the comparatively higher density of Europe. The Indigenous populations simply had not had the time to develop immunity to the multiple foreign diseases, all introduced at once, for which the more urbanised European populations had had many years to develop some population immunity to. Furthermore, this process was enhanced via the colonisers' intentional spread of disease as a biological weapon, one notable example of this being in North America with the colonisers giving Native American tribes smallpox-infested blankets as gifts. \n\nMarshall Sahlins' work Islands of History uses an ethnohistorical perspective to attempt to come to grips with the way that non-European peoples saw the first contact phenomenon. In it he argues that native people, while being changed by contact with Europeans, nonetheless did so through their own cultural frame of reference.\n\n"}
{"id": "12436934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12436934", "title": "Grassroots Campaigns, Inc.", "text": "Grassroots Campaigns, Inc.\n\nGrassroots Campaigns, Inc. is a for-profit corporation that does strategic consulting, and fund raising for humanitarian and progressive causes and political organizations. Grassroots Campaigns employs thousands of workers to generate small-donor contributions, increase visibility, and expand the membership base for a number of progressive groups, issues, and campaigns. Headquartered in Boston, Massachusetts, the company was founded in December 2003 by a small team of experienced organizers who specialized in grassroots-level political and public interest organizing with groups like the Public Interest Research Group However, since its founding, it has consistently faced accusations of anti-union activity at odds with its stated progressive roots.\n\nGrassroots Campaigns was founded in December 2003 with the goal of providing high-quality data-driven field campaigns and small donor fundraising campaigns to progressive organizations and candidates. The company expanded very rapidly. By April 2004 Grassroots Campaigns had opened offices in 40 cities throughout the country. By July 2004 they had over 2,000 staff knocking on doors and fund raising on behalf of the Democratic National Committee. During that same year Grassroots work with MoveOn PAC to help staff and manage their \"Leave No Voter Behind,\" campaign. This was a \"get out the vote\" (GOTV) program intended to give Democratic candidate John Kerry an edge in the swing states. By October 2004, they had more than 50,000 people canvassing their neighborhoods in 17 of the most contested swing states of the 2004 Presidential Election. Following the 2004 election, Grassroots kept some of their field offices open in order to run door-to-door and site-based canvassing programs to raise money from small donors and help build and expand supporter lists on behalf of the American Civil Liberties Union and other groups.\n\nIn 2006, Grassroots Campaigns again partnered with MoveOn.org to run Call for Change, one of the largest volunteer phonebanking efforts in American history. Over 120 organizers in 40 cities nationwide recruited and trained over 100,000 volunteers who made more than 7 million phone calls to voters in the closest races of the midterm election. Following this election cycle, Grassroots continued to expand its year-round field programs, including maintaining base-building and small-donor fundraising operations in more than a dozen cities across the country.\n\nDuring the 2008 election cycle, Grassroots Campaigns expanded and partnered with a number of organizations working to elect Barack Obama and other Democrats. More than 200 organizers and canvass directors across the country ran programs that registered over 250,000 voters in key battleground states. As the election approached Grassroots Campaigns took part in get-out-the-vote efforts in key states. Grassroots worked with the League of Conservation Voters among other groups to contact voters in key states and districts and encourage voters to make it out to the polls.\n\nDuring the 2010 midterm elections, Grassroots Campaigns was active in Pennsylvania, Colorado, Missouri and Washington state.\n\nGrassroots Campaigns ran nationwide voter mobilization effort in 2012 to re-elect President Obama and help other Democratic candidates get into office. Most work was done in Colorado and Nevada, with additional projects in Montana and a few other states.\n\nIn 2014 Grassroots Campaigns did extensive work in Colorado, Iowa, Nevada and Pennsylvania. Grassroots ran the largest canvass in the state for the Iowa Senate race, knocking on more than 150,000 doors statewide. \n\nFollowing the election, Grassroots is launching permanent offices in Des Moines and Phoenix. While it continues to open offices throughout the country, it is also hampered as they also tend to close offices that engage in union activity.\n\nGrassroots Campaigns is currently running national campaigns for progressive political and charitable organizations like the American Civil Liberties Union, Oxfam America, The Nature Conservancy and The Southern Poverty Law Center. \nGrassroots Campaigns entered the fall of 2012 running offices in 18 cities. Grassroots Campaigns currently employs over 100 Lead Directors,Assistant Directors and Field Staff who manage staff and run these offices and an estimated 750 paid canvassers nationwide.\n\n\nIn 2006 and 2007 Grassroots Campaigns settled two wage disputes out of court, one in California and one in Oregon. The California claim alleged that workers were being asked to work more hours than allowed by California law during the days leading up to the 2006 election. The Oregon claim alleged that Grassroots improperly paid some students a minimum wage less than the local allowed minimum wage for a portion of their hours worked. Grassroots Campaigns claimed the students were paid properly and legally, and the matter was settled by both parties.(Willamette Week, 9/20/06).\n\nGrassroots Campaigns has also had numerous charges of anti-union activity, with unfair labor practices filed with the National Labor Relations Board in Portland, Philadelphia , Seattle , Chicago , Ann Arbor . The cases include unfair retaliation, discipline, layoffs, surveillance of employees, coercion, intimidation, and illegal closure of offices in response to union activity in Portland and Seattle.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3695417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3695417", "title": "Hans-Ulrich Obrist", "text": "Hans-Ulrich Obrist\n\nHans Ulrich Obrist (born 1968) is an art curator, critic and historian of art. He is artistic director at the Serpentine Galleries, London. Obrist is the author of \"The Interview Project\", an extensive ongoing project of interviews. He is also co-editor of the \"Cahiers d'art\" revue.\n\nObrist was born in Zürich, Switzerland. When he was 23, he organized an exhibition of contemporary art in his kitchen. In 1993, he founded the \"Museum Robert Walser\" and began to run the \"Migrateurs\" program at the Musée d'Art Moderne de la Ville de Paris where he served as an iphonex curator for contemporary art. In 1996, he co-curated Manifesta 1, the first edition of the roving European biennial of contemporary art. In the November 2009 issue of ArtReview magazine, Obrist was ranked number one in the publication's annual list of the art world's one-hundred most powerful people and that same year he was made an Honorary Fellow of the Royal Institute of British Architects (RIBA). Obrist first gained art world attention in 1991, when as a student in Politics and Economics in St. Gallen, Switzerland, he mounted an exhibition in the kitchen of his apartment entitled \"The Kitchen Show\" It featured work by Christian Boltanski and Peter Fischli & David Weiss. Obrist is an advocate and archivist for artists, and has said \"I really do think artists are the most important people on the planet, and if what I do is a utility and helps them, then that makes me happy. I want to be helpful.\" Obrist is known for his lively pace and emphasis on inclusion in all cultural activities.\n\nWhile maintaining official curatorial positions, he is also the co-founder of the Brutally Early Club, a discussion group open to all that meets at Starbucks in London, Berlin, New York and Paris at 6:30 a.m., and is a contributing editor of 032c magazine, Artforum and Paradis Magazine, among others. Hans Ulrich Obrist has lectured internationally at academic and art institutions including European Graduate School in Saas-Fee, University of East Anglia, Southbank Centre, Institute of Historical Research, and Architectural Association. He lives and works in London.\n\nObrist's interest in interviews was first triggered by two very long conversations that he read when he was a student. One was between Pierre Cabanne and Marcel Duchamp, and the other between David Sylvester and Francis Bacon. \"These books somehow brought me to art,\" he has said. \"They were like oxygen, and were the first time that the idea of an interview with an artist as a medium became of interest to me. They also sparked my interest in the idea of sustained conversations—of interviews recorded over a period of time, perhaps over the course of many years; the Bacon/Sylvester interviews took place over three long sessions, for example.\"\n\nSo far, nearly 2000 hours of interviews have been recorded. This fascinating archive is referred to by Obrist as “an endless conversation”. He began publishing these interviews in Artforum in 1996 and in 2003 eleven of these interviews were released as \"Interviews Volume 1\". \"Volume 2\" was published in Summer 2010. With the release, a total of 69 artists, architects, writers, film-makers, scientists, philosophers, musicians and performers share their unique experiences and frank insights.\n\nThe longer interviews in Obrist's archive are being published singly in ongoing series of books entitled \"The Conversation Series\". Thus far, 28 books have been published, each containing a lengthy interview with cultural figures including John Baldessari, Zaha Hadid, Dominique Gonzalez-Foerster, Yoko Ono, Robert Crumb and Rem Koolhaas. A number of Obrist's interviews have also appeared in the Berlin culture magazine 032c, including those with artists Elaine Sturtevant and Richard Hamilton, historian Eric Hobsbawm, and structural engineer Cecil Balmond of Arup.\n\nOn 8 May 2015, Obrist interviewed artist and poet Jimmie Durham in Venice, on the social live video broadcasting platform Periscope, using an iPhone. Periscope staff had designated the video as \"FEATURED\", thus it was made available to a much wider audience than Obrist's followers. Unless this interview is published elsewhere, it will be lost as of 9 May 2015, as the platform does not store videos for longer than 24 hours. On an irregular schedule, Obrist has subsequently interviewed various other artists in depth on Periscope.\n\nObrist has an abiding fascination with the history of art institutions and curatorial practice. In his early 20s he began to research the topic. \"At a certain moment, when I started doing my own shows, I felt it would be really interesting to know what is the history of my profession. I realized that there was no book, which was kind of a shock.\" He has since helped to rectify this gap with exhibitions on curating and a book entitled \"A Brief History of Curating\". This volume, which is part of Obrist's Interviews project (see above) compiles interviews from some of the leading curators of the 20th century.\n\nWhile the history of exhibitions has started, in this last decade, to be examined more in depth, what remains largely unexplored are the ties that interconnected manifestations have created among curators, institutions, and artists. For this reason, Obrist's conversations go beyond stressing the remarkable achievements of a few individuals...Obrist's collected volume pieces together \"a patchwork of fragments,\" underlining a network of relationships within the art.\n\nIn keeping with his desire to explore the world of art and view it as an open system, Obrist has long advocated a participatory model for his activities. One early project, 1997's \"do it\", is an ongoing exhibition that consists of instructions set out by artists for anyone to follow. In his introduction to the project, Obrist notes that \"do it stems from an open exhibition model, and exhibition in progress. Individual instructions can open empty spaces for occupation and invoke possibilities for the interpretations and rephrasing of artworks in a totally free manner. do it effects interpretations based on location, and calls for a dovetailing of local structures with the artworks themselves. The diverse cities in which do it takes place actively construct the artwork context and endow it with their individual marks or distinctions.\"(sic)\n\nObrist curated \"Utopia Station\", a section of the Venice Biennale, in 2003, and is briefly interviewed about the project in Sarah Thornton's \"Seven Days in the Art World\". In 2007, Obrist co-curated Il Tempo del Postino with Philippe Parreno for the Manchester International Festival, also presented at Art Basel, 2009, organised by Fondation Beyeler and Theater Basel. In the same year, the Van Alen Institute awarded him the New York Prize Senior Fellowship for 2007-2008. In 2008 he curated Everstill at the Lorca House in Granada.\n\nMore recently, Obrist he has initiated a series of \"marathons\". The Marathon series of public events was conceived by Hans Ulrich Obrist in Stuttgart in 2005. The first in the Serpentine series, the Interview Marathon in 2006, involved interviews with leading figures in contemporary culture over 24 hours, conducted by Obrist and architect Rem Koolhaas. This was followed by the Experiment Marathon, conceived by Obrist and artist Olafur Eliasson in 2007, which included 50 experiments by speakers across both arts and science, including Peter Cook, Neil Turok, Kim Gordon, Simone Forti, Fia Bäckstrom and Joseph Grigely. There was also the Manifesto Marathon in 2008 and the Poetry Marathon in 2009, which consisted of poems read aloud by artists and writers including Gilbert & George, Tracey Emin, Nick Laird, Geoffrey Hill, and James Fenton.\n\nThe 2014 Extinction Marathon: Visions of the Future linked the humanities and the sciences to discussions of environmental and human impact on the world today. It was programmed with artist Gustav Metzger whose research addresses issues of extinction and climate change. Notable participants included artists Etel Adnan, Ed Atkins, Jesse Darling, Gilbert & George, Katja Novitskova, Yoko Ono, Susan Hiller, Marguerite Humeau, Trevor Paglen, Cornelia Parker amongst notable model and actor Lily Cole and Founder of \"The Whole Earth Catalog\" and Co-Founder of The Long Now Foundation Stewart Brand.\n\n\"I think great artists always change what we expect from art. And then there is the famous \"étonnez-moi\". In the conversation with Cocteau and Diaghilev and the Ballets russes which was a great moment where art met theatre, and there was this famous explanation, and they said \"étonnez-moi!\" [\"Astonish me!\"].\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31256718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31256718", "title": "Happily Divorced", "text": "Happily Divorced\n\nHappily Divorced is an American sitcom created by Fran Drescher and her ex-husband Peter Marc Jacobson. Inspired by their experiences, the series, which became TV Land's third original scripted series following \"Hot in Cleveland\" and \"Retired at 35\", ran from June 15, 2011, to February 13, 2013, and revolves around a Los Angeles florist who finds out her husband of 18 years is gay. The series was canceled after two seasons on August 23, 2013.\n\nDrescher plays Fran Lovett, a Los Angeles florist who is shocked when Peter, her husband of 18 years, comes out of the closet as gay. They divorce, but because of the poor economy, they cannot afford to live separately. She struggles with navigating the new parameters of their relationship while re-entering the dating pool.\n\nThe main cast includes:\n\n\n<onlyinclude></onlyinclude>\n\n\"Happily Divorced\" is inspired by the real lives of series creators Fran Drescher and Peter Marc Jacobson, who had been high school sweethearts and then married in 1978. They divorced in 1999. Jacobson later came out as gay to Drescher and the two remained friends. In 2010 the pair, who had previously created Drescher's earlier series \"The Nanny\", began developing the series based on their life experiences. Initially Drescher planned only to write and produce \"Happily Divorced\" but eventually decided to star as well. Set in Los Angeles, Fran's gay ex-husband still lives with her for economic reasons, with \"a very traditional family. Everyone's very accepting that he's gay. They're both dating; he's new at it, she's new at it.\" TV Land gave the green light to a pilot episode in November 2010. The network announced on March 21, 2011, that the series had been picked up with a ten-episode order. The show is shot in front of a live studio audience at CBS Radford in Studio City., which provides \"Happily Divorced\" the typical style of the 1990s' sitcoms. There are still more parallels to \"The Nanny\": the opener is an animation, underlaid with specially composed music and also, Drescher refuses a role name and is just called 'Fran'. \"The Nanny\" regulars, Renée Taylor and Charles Shaughnessy, have made guest appearances; the latter having also co-starred on \"Living With Fran\". The show premiered on Wednesday, June 15, 2011, in the 10:30 time slot after the television show \"Hot in Cleveland\".\n\nThe show was renewed on July 20, 2011, for a second season of 12 episodes, which started airing weekly on March 7, 2012. The new season is advertised by the slogan \"The Laugh is Back\". Beginning of February 2012 TV Land made the guest stars for season 2 public. There are again some famous \"The Nanny\" faces : Renée Taylor (alias \"Sylvia Fine\") returns from season 1 as Dori's neighbor \"Marilyn\", and Ann Guilbert (alias \"Yetta\") appears as Marilyn's mother, \"Mrs. Kapelmaster\". Furthermore, Hollywood beauties Morgan Fairchild and Joan Collins will be on view as well.\n\nOn April 29, 2012, the day of the TV Land Awards 2012, the cable broadcaster extended the second season, picking up an additional 12 episodes, bringing the total count of season 2 to 24 episodes. The initial 12 episode order concluded June 6. The 12 additional episodes began airing November 28, 2012, at 10:30 PM EST, following the Season 4 premiere of \"Hot in Cleveland\" at 10 PM.\n\nThe show was officially cancelled on August 23, 2013.\n\nEarly reviews of the series were mixed. David Hinckley, writing for \"The New York Daily News,\" noted that it \"may be that all this will develop an interesting story. On opening night, though, it feels like the show's primary goal is to set up one-liners – which is not how the great shows got to be great.\" Brian Lowry of \"Variety\" called it \"so painfully broad and filled with gay stereotypes all but Drescher's most faithful fans will yearn to be separated from their TVs,\" while Matthew Gilbert of \"The Boston Globe\" summed it as \"the kind of throwback you just might want to throw back.\" Mark A. Perigard's review for \"The Boston Herald\" was very emphatic; he noted that \"in \"Happily Divorced\", TV Land, the cable channel for baby boomers, finally may have found the perfect companion to its smash \"Hot in Cleveland\".\"\n\nParamount Home Media Distribution released the first season of \"Happily Divorced\" on Region 1 DVD on March 6, 2012.\n\nEndemol has sold \"Happily Divorced\" into multiple territories. The show has been bought by SBS in the Netherlands, SABC in South Africa, Global in Canada, Comedy Central in India, Italy, Mexico and Brazil, MTV in Latin America and TVNZ in New Zealand. Similar deals with a German company for \"Happily Divorced\" will be announced soon. In Bulgaria the show has been bought by Fox Life. Advanced negotiations are underway in Poland and Sweden. In Greece, the sitcom premiered on October 15, 2012, at the prime-time slot of Makedonia TV.\nIn Belgium the show premiered April 8, 2013, and airs daily on VIJF after reruns of The Nanny at 6.30pm. In the United Kingdom, the series made its debut on May 12, 2013, on TLC UK.\n\n"}
{"id": "897353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=897353", "title": "Huya (mythology)", "text": "Huya (mythology)\n\nHuya (in Wayuu: \"Juyá,\" pronounced ) is the name of the rain god of the Wayuu people of Venezuela and Colombia.\n\nThe minor planet 38628 Huya is named after this figure.\n"}
{"id": "14383354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14383354", "title": "Indigenous movements in the Americas", "text": "Indigenous movements in the Americas\n\nIndigenous people under the nation-state have experienced exclusion and dispossession. With the rise in globalization, material advantages for indigenous populations have diminished. At times, national governments have negotiated natural resources without taking into account whether or not these resources exist on indigenous lands. In this sense for many indigenous populations, the effects of globalization mirror the effects of the conquest in the mid 16th century.\n\nIn response, indigenous political movements have emerged in various countries in North and South America. These movements share similarities. Many seek specific rights for indigenous populations. These rights include the right to self-determination and the right to preserve their culture and heritage. Aims differ. One of the main differences is the way in which they organize themselves to meet their objectives. There have been movements in Latin America to unite indigenous populations separated by national borders. The following are examples of groups that have organized in order to be heard on a transnational level. These movements call for indigenous rights to become a universal right to be acknowledged by all countries with indigenous populations.\n\nThis organization coordinates the following nine national Amazonian indigenous organizations:\n\nThe Indian Council of South America was founded in 1980. It is a non-governmental organization that works in consultation with the Economic and Social Council of the United Nations. This council also seeks to maintain relations with international agencies such as UNESCO, FAO, and WHO. One of CISA’s objectives is to promote respect for the right to life, justice, development, peace, and autonomy of the indigenous peoples and Nations.\nCISA also coordinates an exchange of knowledge, experiences and projects between indigenous peoples and nations in respect to development that will improve their welfare.\n\nOne of the most important goals for the Maya League is to return to the Mayan balance that was interrupted with the Spanish conquest of 1524. This group, similar to COICA, works to preserve and inform people about the culture of the Mayan people. This group has reached out to other states like Costa Rica and some of the states in the United States in order to carry out activities in the areas of teaching, research, and services. One of the defining factors about this group is that it does not have any formal leadership roles appointed to any one person. Rather, the Mayan League sticks to its ancestral beliefs that all can participate in decision making activity. Some of the problems that the Maya League seeks to combat are racism, repression, marginalization, and poverty. Currently, there is a large population of Maya living in Guatemala.\n\nMexico has the most adapted modern Maya peoples today; they are from Mayan Yucatec branch, most of them totally integrated into the Mexican economy, from peasants, retail, handcraft or \"Maquiladora\" factory workers to doctors, engineers and politicians.\n\n\n\nBrazil\n\n\nChile\n\nColombia\n\nCosta Rica\n\nEcuador\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nLatin America is primarily known for their growing indigenous rights movement. Groups within countries have done work to publicize indigenous rights in their respective countries.\n\nTransnational movements have helped publicize the indigenous rights movement in Latin America. Trans-national movements regarding indigenous rights could be seen as the whole being greater than the sum of its parts. Many political related movements regarding the rights of indigenous peoples have taken hold particularly in the 1990s due to \"time and allies.\" Political collaboration has been integral for the progress of indigenous peoples. Multilateral agencies and NGO's have been helping to increase leverage for indigenous peoples rights. The first Peruvian president of indigenous origin, Alejandro Toldeo, was elected in 2001. This marked the first time that someone of Indian descent was the ruler since the 1930s. Transnational organizations have been credited for contributing to Cué's victory in Mexico. The Front of Binational Organizations (FIOB), one of the most active indigenous organizations, is credited for this feat. Trans-national movements like the FIOB \"represents a broad network of relationships, organizational structures, and cultural traditions.\" Solidarity is one of the main attributes for the success of trans-national movements.\n\nGlobal trans-national movements also influence regional movements. For example, since the UN Declaration on the Rights of Indigenous People was passed, there has been progress made for the indigenous rights movement. Trans-national movements aim to enforce these policies through their work with domestic movements throughout the Americas.\n\nTransnational movements have shifted their focus towards environmental rights. As deforestation occurs in areas such as the Amazon, many movements aim to work in solidarity to bring these secondary issues to light. Amazon Watch is one non-governmental organization that aims to publicize the plight of deforestation in the Amazon in regards to the lives of indigenous peoples. Oil drilling is one issue that Amazon Watch fights against. A pipeline spill in the Peruvian Amazon highlights the plight of indigenous protests. Five indigenous communities sought to remediate the polluted sites and gain compensation for damages to their land. This shift has helped to gain more awareness as environmental protection becomes more important in the rights for indigenous peoples. The Dakota Access Pipeline protests is one example of the fight for indigenous rights to sacred land in the United States. More than 40% of the Standing Rock Sioux Tribe live below the poverty line and this pipeline could negatively affect both the environment and well-being of the tribe.\n\nIndigenous rights have largely been ignored throughout Brazil's history. They were considered \"second-class citizens\" and much of their land was taken away for economic development. Brazilian is also historically known for the \"physical and cultural extermination of the indigenous peoples.\" However, the indigenous movement in Brazil has largely grown since the 1980s. Although policies have been changed to include the rights of the indigenous peoples, it ignores the collective right to their land.\n\nThe 2002 Xucuru case in Brazil highlights the role of the state in the struggle of present-day indigenous peoples in Brazil. The Inter-American Commission on Human Rights was asked to safeguard Marcos de Araújo, after they received death threats regarding their right to indigenous land. The state rejected this request because of various reasons. Much of the Indian rights movement in Brazil focus on right to land, and not individual liberties. Although indigenous tribes are marginalized and largely unrepresented in government, Brazil's Articulation of Indigenous People's have staged protests around major cities in Brazil to focus on fighting for territorial rights of the native peoples. The result of this issue shows that \"constitutional recognition of indigenous human rights and a multicultural and collectivist perspective does not eliminate the legal and political obstacles to implementing those rights.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "519280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=519280", "title": "Intelligence", "text": "Intelligence\n\nIntelligence has been defined in many ways, including: the capacity for logic, understanding, self-awareness, learning, emotional knowledge, reasoning, planning, creativity, and problem solving. More generally, it can be described as the ability to perceive or infer information, and to retain it as knowledge to be applied towards adaptive behaviors within an environment or context.\n\nIntelligence is most often studied in humans but has also been observed in both non-human animals and in plants. Intelligence in machines is called artificial intelligence, which is commonly implemented in computer systems using programs and, sometimes, appropriate hardware.\n\n\"Intelligence\" derives from the Latin nouns \"intelligentia\" or \"intellēctus\", which in turn stem from the verb \"intelligere\", to comprehend or perceive. In the Middle Ages, \"intellectus\" became the scholarly technical term for understanding, and a translation for the Greek philosophical term \"nous\". This term, however, was strongly linked to the metaphysical and cosmological theories of teleological scholasticism, including theories of the immortality of the soul, and the concept of the Active Intellect (also known as the Active Intelligence). This entire approach to the study of nature was strongly rejected by the early modern philosophers such as Francis Bacon, Thomas Hobbes, John Locke, and David Hume, all of whom preferred the word \"understanding\" (in place of \"intellectus\" or \"intelligence\") in their English philosophical works. Hobbes for example, in his Latin \"De Corpore\", used \"intellectus intelligit\", translated in the English version as \"the understanding understandeth\", as a typical example of a logical absurdity. The term \"intelligence\" has therefore become less common in English language philosophy, but it has later been taken up (with the scholastic theories which it now implies) in more contemporary psychology.\n\nThe definition of intelligence is controversial. Some groups of psychologists have suggested the following definitions:\n\nFrom \"Mainstream Science on Intelligence\" (1994), an op-ed statement in the Wall Street Journal signed by fifty-two researchers (out of 131 total invited to sign):\nFrom \"\" (1995), a report published by the Board of Scientific Affairs of the American Psychological Association:\nBesides those definitions, psychology and learning researchers also have suggested definitions of intelligence such as:\nHuman intelligence is the intellectual power of humans, which is marked by complex cognitive feats and high levels of motivation and self-awareness. Intelligence enables humans to remember descriptions of things and use those descriptions in future behaviors. It is a cognitive process. It gives humans the cognitive abilities to learn, form concepts, understand, and reason, including the capacities to recognize patterns, comprehend ideas, plan, solve problems, and use language to communicate. Intelligence enables humans to experience and think.\n\nNote that much of the above definition applies also to the intelligence of non-human animals.\n\nAlthough humans have been the primary focus of intelligence researchers, scientists have also attempted to investigate animal intelligence, or more broadly, animal cognition. These researchers are interested in studying both mental ability in a particular species, and comparing abilities between species. They study various measures of problem solving, as well as numerical and verbal reasoning abilities. Some challenges in this area are defining intelligence so that it has the same meaning across species (e.g. comparing intelligence between literate humans and illiterate animals), and also operationalizing a measure that accurately compares mental ability across different species and contexts.\n\nWolfgang Köhler's research on the intelligence of apes is an example of research in this area. Stanley Coren's book, \"The Intelligence of Dogs\" is a notable book on the topic of dog intelligence. (See also: Dog intelligence.) Non-human animals particularly noted and studied for their intelligence include chimpanzees, bonobos (notably the language-using Kanzi) and other great apes, dolphins, elephants and to some extent parrots, rats and ravens.\n\nCephalopod intelligence also provides important comparative study. Cephalopods appear to exhibit characteristics of significant intelligence, yet their nervous systems differ radically from those of backboned animals. Vertebrates such as mammals, birds, reptiles and fish have shown a fairly high degree of intellect that varies according to each species. The same is true with arthropods.\n\nEvidence of a general factor of intelligence has been observed in non-human animals. The general factor of intelligence, or \"g\" factor, is a psychometric construct that summarizes the correlations observed between an individual's scores on a wide range of cognitive abilities. First described in humans, the \"g\" factor has since been identified in a number of non-human species.\n\nCognitive ability and intelligence cannot be measured using the same, largely verbally dependent, scales developed for humans. Instead, intelligence is measured using a variety of interactive and observational tools focusing on innovation, habit reversal, social learning, and responses to novelty. Studies have shown that \"g\" is responsible for 47% of the individual variance in cognitive ability measures in primates and between 55% and 60% of the variance in mice (Locurto, Locurto). These values are similar to the accepted variance in IQ explained by \"g\" in humans (40-50%).\n\nIt has been argued that plants should also be classified as intelligent based on their ability to sense and model external and internal environments and adjust their morphology, physiology and phenotype accordingly to ensure self-preservation and reproduction.\n\nA counter argument is that intelligence is commonly understood to involve the creation and use of persistent memories as opposed to computation that does not involve learning. If this is accepted as definitive of intelligence, then it includes the artificial intelligence of robots capable of \"machine learning\", but excludes those purely autonomic sense-reaction responses that can be observed in many plants. Plants are not limited to automated sensory-motor responses, however, they are capable of discriminating positive and negative experiences and of 'learning' (registering memories) from their past experiences. They are also capable of communication, accurately computing their circumstances, using sophisticated cost–benefit analysis and taking tightly controlled actions to mitigate and control the diverse environmental stressors.\n\nArtificial intelligence (or AI) is both the intelligence of machines and the branch of computer science which aims to create it, through \"the study and design of intelligent agents\" or \"rational agents\", where an intelligent agent is a system that perceives its environment and takes actions which maximize its chances of success. Achievements in artificial intelligence include constrained and well-defined problems such as games, crossword-solving and optical character recognition and a few more general problems such as autonomous cars. General intelligence or strong AI has not yet been achieved and is a long-term goal of AI research.\n\nAmong the traits that researchers hope machines will exhibit are reasoning, knowledge, planning, learning, communication, perception, and the ability to move and to manipulate objects. In the field of artificial intelligence there is no consensus on how closely the brain should be simulated.\n\n\n\nScholarly journals and societies\n"}
{"id": "46519439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46519439", "title": "Islamabad Literature Festival", "text": "Islamabad Literature Festival\n\nThe Islamabad Literature Festival (ILF) is an international literary festival held annually in Islamabad, Pakistan. \n\nILF was established in 2013. It features prominent literary figures, guest speakers and attendees including writers, poets, scholars and academics from all over Pakistan, as well as internationally. The event incorporates reading and literary debate sessions, lectures, poetry reading, plays, art fairs and book launches. Like the Karachi Literature Festival, ILF was also launched by Ameena Saiyid, the director of Oxford University Press Pakistan.\n\nThe first ILF was held on April 30 and 31, 2013. The second edition was held from 25 to 28 April, 2014. The third edition was held from April 24 to 26, 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6233953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6233953", "title": "Jealousy in art", "text": "Jealousy in art\n\nJealousy in art deals with the way writers and graphic artists have approached the topic of jealousy in their works.\n\nJealousy is the powerful complex of emotions experienced at the loss, real or imagined, of something or someone you believe is yours, whereas envy concerns what you don’t have and would like to possess. Othello is filled with jealousy at the thought of losing Desdemona: Iago is consumed with envy of Othello’s prestige. Because jealous lovers tell multiple stories about those who arouse their jealousy, and because the emotion is so corrosive, jealousy is a common theme in literature and art, not to mention opera and cinema.\n\nLiterary works use a variety of devices to explore its possibilities and reveal its wider implications. Most famously, perhaps, Schahriar's destructive jealousy in \"One Thousand and One Nights\" is what precipitates Scheherazade’s creative outpouring of stories. In Ariosto’s \"Orlando furioso\" (1516) jealousy leads to such a distortion of the world that the sufferer is driven to madness. Shakespeare's later play, \"the Winters tale\" (1613) is predominately about the jealousy felt by Leontes' and his supposed adulterous wife. E. T. A. Hoffmann’s Princess Brambilla (1821) is more concerned with the interplay between jealousy and the theater, between reality and masks. In Charlotte Brontë’s \"Villette\" (1853) jealousy becomes a game of reflections and speculations, a potent denial of sexual stereotypes, and, like many novels written by women, an angry rejection of the violation of the individual caused by the gaze of the jealous lover. Anthony Trollope uses both \"He Knew He Was Right\" (1869) and \"Kept in the Dark\" (1882) to analyze not only double standards used to judge how men and women behave but also the relationship between mind and body. Tolstoy’s \"The Kreutzer Sonata\" (1889) offers a compelling exploration of jealousy acting as a front for repressed homosexuality. Proust’s \"In Search of Lost Time\" (1913–1927), especially the section concerning Albertine, represents the claustrophobic nature of the passion of jealousy through the tropes of imprisonment, illness and death, while Michal Choromanski’s \"Jealousy and Medicine\" (1932) creates a landscape and a climate that recreate to the full the physical experience of jealousy. Freud’s reading of jealousy and his emphasis on repetitive structures inspires Iris Murdoch’s \"A Word Child\" (1975) in which the London subway symbolizes endless repetition of the same.\n\nOther novelists have used jealousy to explore the relationship between writer and reader, as well as that between fiction and reality. Alain Robbe-Grillet’s \"Jealousy\" (1965) develops the image of the window blind (in French “la jalousie” means both the emotion and the window blind) to lock the reader into the jealous person’s mind, while in Julian Barnes’s \"Talking it Over\" (1991), the writer’s jealousy of the reader’s attention is as much a part of the story as the sexual jealousy it also examines. A. S. Byatt’s \"Possession\" (1990) is in part an analysis of the ways in which writing and reading operate to silence other voices.\n\nIn art, depicting a face reflecting the ravages of jealousy was a frequent studio exercise: see for instance drawings by Charles Le Brun (1619–1690) or Sébastien Leclerc (the Younger) (1676–1763), or in a fuller treatment, the howling figure on the left in Bronzino’s \"An Allegory with Venus and Cupid\" (probably 1540-50). Albrecht Dürer’s 1498 drawing, \"Hercules’s Jealousy\" depicts jealousy as a powerfully built woman armed with a sword. The theme of jealousy is frequently conveyed through images of the gaze as in Jean-Auguste-Dominique Ingres’s \"Paolo and Francesca\" (1819) which reveals the jealous husband’s gaze catching the young lovers’ first kiss. Edvard Munch’s many depictions of jealousy, however, tend to place the husband at the front of the painting with a couple behind him as if to suggest that jealousy is created more by the mind than by the gaze. This suggestion is intensified by his cunning use of symbolic colors. There are, nevertheless, lighter moments, as when Gaston de La Touche (1854–1913), in \"Jealousy or the Monkey\" shows a love scene interrupted by a monkey tugging on the woman’s dress. While popular images of jealousy tend to the lurid, it remains a source, both in literature and in painting, of highly creative artistic strategies that have little to do with the negative and destructive sides of the emotion itself.\n"}
{"id": "20348978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20348978", "title": "Journal of the Academic Association of Koreanology in Japan", "text": "Journal of the Academic Association of Koreanology in Japan\n\nThe Journal of the Academic Association of Koreanology in Japan (Jp. \"Chōsen gakuhō\" 朝鮮学報) is a Japanese/Korean/English-language scholarly journal published by the Tenri University, a private university in Tenri, Nara Prefecture, Japan. The journal features articles and book reviews of current scholarship in East Asian Studies, focusing on Korean and Japanese history, literature and religion, with occasional coverage of politics and linguistics.\n\nThe journal was published regularly since 1956 as the bulletin of \"Chōsen Gakkai\" 朝鮮学会 (Academic Association of Koreanology at Tenri University). \n\n\n"}
{"id": "47317412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47317412", "title": "Junkyard Dog (film)", "text": "Junkyard Dog (film)\n\nJunkyard Dog is a 2010 American psychological thriller film written and directed by Kim Bass, and starring Innis Casey, Vivica A. Fox, Galadriel Stineman, Brad Dourif and John Kapelos. The film follows a female FBI agent frantically trying attempting to save an abducted college student from a cannibalistic serial killer and rapist who is keeping her confined in an underground cell.\n\n"}
{"id": "22080334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22080334", "title": "Kosovo Adyghes", "text": "Kosovo Adyghes\n\nThe Kosovo Adyghes are a small group of the Adyghe people who lived in Kosovo beginning in the mid-19th century, when they relocated to the Ottoman Empire after the Circassian defeat in the Caucasian War. In 1998 they numbered 200. After the Kosovo War began, they emigrated to the Republic of Adyghea in the Russian Federation. There they founded an aul named Mafekhable near the republic's capital of Maykop.\n"}
{"id": "33223193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33223193", "title": "Kresh languages", "text": "Kresh languages\n\nKresh is a small language group of South Sudan. It is generally considered to be a branch of the Central Sudanic languages. Boyeldieu (2010) judges that this has yet to be demonstrated satisfactorily, but Starostin (2016) finds convincing evidence, and that its closest relative within that family appears to be Birri. \n\nKresh is generally considered a dialect cluster, but it is dialectically diverse. Blench (2000 ms) lists five Kresh languages, four of which (Kresh, Gbaya, Woro, and Dongo) \"Ethnologue\" counts among seven dialects of Kresh/Gbaya (or eight, counting Aja). Kresh and Gbaya, however, are merely exonym and endonym, not coherent languages; they are equivalent to five varieties listed by \"Ethnologue\". \"Ethnologue\" notes that the varieties are not mutually intelligible, but that Kresh-Ndogo (Gbaya-Ndogo) is universally understood as a prestige variety, and that Naka is also commonly understood as the most populous variety. Blench (2000) also includes Furu (Bagero) as a Kresh language, though \"Ethnologue\" classifies it as Kara.\n\nIn addition, Aja is spoken by ethnic Kresh, but though it remains Kresh grammatically, it has been relexified by the unrelated Banda languages (Santandrea 1976).\n\nBlench (2000, 2012) distinguishes \"Kresh, Woro, Gbaya, Furu, Dongo,\" and \"Aja\". However, the principal Kresh 'dialects' are not mutually intelligible, and \"Ethnologue\" lists them as \"Naka (Kresh-Boro), Gbaya-Ndogo (Kresh-Ndogo), Gbaya-Ngbongbo (Kresh-Hofra), Gbaya-Gboko, Orlo (Woro), Gbaya-Dara,\" and \"Dongo\" (with Furu and Aja listed separately):\n\n\nThe names \"Gbaya\" and \"Dongo\" are ambiguous, as they are also used for unrelated Ubangian languages.\n\n"}
{"id": "5745869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5745869", "title": "Latin American studies", "text": "Latin American studies\n\nLatin American studies (LAS) is an academic and research field associated with the study of Latin America. The interdisciplinary study is a subfield of area studies, and can be composed of numerous disciplines such as economics, sociology, history, international relations, political science, geography, gender studies, and literature. \n\nLatin American studies critically examines the history, culture, international relations, and politics, of Latin America. It is not to be confused with Latino Studies, an academic discipline which studies the experience of people of Hispanic ancestry in the United States.\n\nLatin Americanists consider a variety of perspectives and employ diverse research tools in their work. The interdisciplinary disciplines of study varies, depending on the school, association, and academic program. For example, the Latin American Centre of the School of Interdisciplinary Area Studies (SIAS) at the University of Oxford heavily focuses on the social sciences, such as the economics, politics, and development of the region. On the other hand, schools like Teresa Lozano Long Institute of Latin American Studies (LLILAS) at The University of Texas at Austin, focus on the humanities; with the language, culture, and history of Latin America as a central component. Others include the study of environment and ecology of the region.\n\nLatin American studies is usually quite open and often includes or is closely associated with, for instance, Development studies, Geography, Anthropology, Caribbean studies, and Transatlantic studies.\n\nLatin America has been studied in one way or another ever since Columbus's voyage of 1492. In the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, scientist explorers such as Alexander von Humboldt published extensively about the region. Towards the end of the nineteenth century and at the turn of the twentieth, within the region itself writers such as José Martí and José Enrique Rodó encouraged a consciousness of regional identity.\n\nIn 1875, the International Congress of Americanists held its first meeting in Nancy, France, and has met regularly ever since, alternating between venues in Europe and in the Western hemisphere. However, unlike the scholarly organizations of the twentieth century, the ICA does not have an ongoing organization, nor is there a journal of the ICA. The creation of formal and ongoing scholarly organizations focusing on Latin America is a product of the twentieth century.\n\nIn the US, historians with an interest in Latin American history within the American Historical Association created a group focusing on Latin America. In 1918, they founded \"The Hispanic American Historical Review\", which has published quarterly since that time and has built a reputation as one of the premier scholarly journals. The Latin Americanists within the AHA created the Conference on Latin American History in 1926, which is now separately incorporated (since 1964), but continues to coordinate its annual meetings with the American Historical Association. In 1936, US Latin Americanists also founded the \"Handbook of Latin American Studies,\" with editorial offices in the Hispanic Division of the Library of Congress. In a pre-digital era, the compilation of annotated bibliographic references in the humanities and social science organized by subject and country was a vital tool for scholars in the field.\n\nWith the Cuban Revolution of 1959, the US government began seriously focusing on Latin America as Cuba and the hemisphere was seen to be an integral element of Cold War politics. The Latin American historian who wrote the early history of the founding of the Latin American Studies Association wryly suggested in 1966 that at some future date Latin Americanists should erect a statue to Fidel Castro, the \"remote godfather\" of the field, who instigated a renewed US interest in the region.\n\nInterest in Latin American studies increased starting in the 1950s. In the US, Latin American studies (like other area studies) was boosted by the passing of Title VI of the National Defense Education Act (NDEA) of 1958, which provided resources for Centers of Area and International Studies. In the UK, the 1965 \"Parry Report\" provided similar impetus for the establishment of Institutes and Centres of Latin American Studies at Oxford, London, Cambridge, and Liverpool. In Canada, York University in Toronto established the first Latin American center, \"in part thanks to the inflow of exiled intellectuals from South America.\" Germany's Ibero-Amerikanisches Institut in Berlin had been founded in 1930, but not until the 1970s did it experience expansion.\n\n\n\n\n\nSee also \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1083300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1083300", "title": "List of fashion designers", "text": "List of fashion designers\n\nThis is a list of notable fashion designers sorted by nationality. It includes designers of \"haute couture\" and ready-to-wear.\n\nFor \"haute couture\" only, see the list of grands couturiers. For footwear designers, see the list of footwear designers.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nO.Khaled Zeitouneh\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7645962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7645962", "title": "Lochmaben Stone", "text": "Lochmaben Stone\n\nThe Lochmaben Stone () is a megalith standing in a field, nearly a mile west of the Sark mouth on the Solway Firth, three hundred yards or so above high water mark on the farm of Old Graitney in Dumfries & Galloway in Scotland. The area is also known as Stormont. Together with a smaller stone it is all that is left of a stone circle dating back to around 3000BC.\n\nThe principal stone or megalith, referred to as the Lochmabonstone by Logan Mack in 1926, has, in the Borders context, an unsurpassed extent of history attached to it. It is an erratic, 7 feet high and 18 feet in girth and weighs approximately ten tons. It is composed of weathered granite, exposed to severe glacial action.\n\nIn these treeless flatlands this stone, given its size, would have been a distinctive landmark on the flat Solway Plain for several millennia.\n\nThe Lochmaben stone has had a wide range of names attached to it over the last few millennia or so. Lochmabonstone, Stormont, and Old Graitney stone are amongst the most recent. In 1398 the name is 'Clochmabenstane', in 1409 and 1472 the name 'Loumabanestane' is recorded, with 'Lowmabanstane' used in 1485 and then 'Loughmabanestane' in 1494.\n\nThe element Mabon, as in the Celtic god, is common to all of the variants and this strongly confirms this association, as well as helping with the identification of this site with the Roman site of 'Locus Maponi', as listed in the Ravenna Cosmography. It is also suggested that \"Locus Maponi\" means the 'Loch' or 'Pool' of Mabon and this would suggest that the town of Lochmaben is the intended named site.\n\n\"Maporitum\" is another name recorded in the cosmography and given that the name relates to the \"Ford of Mabon\" and indeed the name 'Solway' is most likely derived from the word \"Sul\" standing for the pillar or Lochmaben stone and the word \"Wath\" that is of Viking origin and means to 'wade', indicating a ford.\n\nThe old Gaelic 'Cloch' element is found with the 1398 record 'Clockmabanstane' and this suggests that as in the modern Gaelic 'clach', meaning stone, the whole name may mean the 'stone or burial place of Mabon'. With the decline of Gaelic use in this area so close to England, the word 'Loch' has become appended, especially as the Lochmaben and the Loch of Maben are in the locality. The name Clackmannan is another example where the Gaelic word is undeniably linked with a stone, in this case still on view in the town centre.\n\nThe first edition Ordnance Survey six-inch map (1843–1882) refers to it as \"Druidical circle (Remains of)\", which the \"Ordnance Survey Name Book\" states as being formerly composed of nine upright stones placed in an oval of about . Only two of these stones are visible above the surface of the ground, one being the Lochmaben Stone. The other stone stands 1.0 m high by 1.2 m in diameter in a less conspicuous position in the nearby hedge to the north east of the larger stone. The 1845 'New Statistical Account' also relates that a ring of large stones once stood here, enclosing an area of around half an acre, most of which were removed shortly before that date to facilitate ploughing of the site.\n\nIn 1982 the stone fell over, and excavations prior to its re-erection revealed that it had been set into a shallow pit. No artifacts were recovered. However, a sample of mixed Oak and Hazel charcoal taken from the lower fill of the stone-pit yielded a radiocarbon date of approximately 3275 BC according to Aubrey Burl.\n\nThe name of the stone strongly suggests that this site was a centre of the cult of the Celtic god Mabon or Maponus. The name has its origins in \"map\", the Old Welsh for 'son of' and is suggestive of a divine youth. He is said to have been the divine patron of the Kingdom of Rheged and dedications to his cult have so far been found at Birrens, Brampton, Chesterholm (Vindolanda), Corbridge and Ribchester. Mabon may have been a god of fertility: the Romans made him a British Apollo. Tolstoy sees Merlin as a chief druid carrying out ceremonies at the Clochmabenstane.\n\nSometime during the seventh century, an unknown monk in the Monastery at Ravenna on the Adriatic (eastern) coast of Italy compiled a list of all the towns and road-stations throughout the Roman Empire; this important historical document has since become known as the Ravenna Cosmography and it lists a 'Locus Maponi' which has been tentatively identified with the Lochmaben stone site.\n\nThe Lochmaben Stone was a well known, well recognised and easily located 'marker' on the Scottish Marches and as such it performed a number of functions prior to the Union of the Crowns, such as arrangements for truces, exchange of prisoners, etc.\n\nRaiding parties met here before launching expeditions into England and Scottish armies assembled here before major incursions or defence operations took place. It may well have been a tribal assembly point. An army was ordered to assemble here as late as 6 February 1557.\n\nIn 1398 an exchange of prisoners took place when English and Scots representatives, the Dukes of Rothesay and Lancaster met at the Lochmaben Stone. The prisoners were released without ransoms and any that had already been paid were to be returned.\n\nIts use by the Marcher Lords or Wardens suggests that the Scots regarded the Lochmaben stone as being the southernmost limit of the Scottish realm. In 1398 an indenture was made at 'Clochmabenstane' for the men of Tyndale and Redesdale to meet from Whitsunday to Michaelmas at Kershope Bridge. The Commissioners not only met here, but \"gave bail for their good behaviour to one another.\"\n\nIn 1473, the Scottish and English Ambassadors met to agree that more frequent meetings of the marcher Wardens were to be held at the six recognised sites on the marches. These were 'Newbyggynfurde, Redaneburn, Gammyllispethe, Belle, Loumabanestane and Kershopebrig and the meetings were to be held at successive venues. On the 26th. March 1494 the commissioners of both countries met at the Lochmaben Stone to finally settle the long running dispute over the 'Fish Garth' across the River Esk.\n\nIn the 1800s the tenant of Old Graitney farm decided to clear his land of the three remaining stones which ruined his field's appearance and got in the way of his machinery. He set his farm hands to work digging deep pits for the burial of the stones. One had been completely buried and another partially sunken when the proprietor, Lord Mansfield, arrived at the scene and stopped further operations. The stone was still used as a gathering place for the locality into comparatively recent times.\n\nA local tradition suggests that the stone was moved by a farm worker with an excavator, the intention being to locate any 'treasure' beneath. The local primary school attended an official re-erection ceremony which was covered by the local paper, the \"Dumfries and Galloway Standard\" 22 September 1995.\n\nThe \"Auchinleck Chronicle\" records that on 23 October 1448 a Scottish Army under the command of Hugh Douglas, Earl of Ormonde, and Sir John Wallace of Craigie won a resounding victory over the invading English forces of the younger Henry Percy, 2nd Earl of Northumberland. There is nothing to mark the site of the battle ground. 3,000 Englishmen were slain or drowned in flight. Many prisoners were taken. Estimated Scots losses range from a low of 26 to a high of 600, the most serious of whom was Sir John Wallace of Craigie, Sheriff of Ayr, who was mortally wounded, dying some time after the battle.\n\nAt NY 31 66 a Viking boat-shaped barrow or mound existed. It was levelled around the year 1851, but no burials or Viking artefacts are recorded as having been found.\n\nThis tower-house was built by the Johnstones in 1535 and burnt by the Maxwells in 1585. Locally a tower is said to have stood 180 m south of the Old Graitney Farmhouse although no traces are visible on the ground.\n\nThis site at NY 316 660 is recorded as having been used by smugglers. The title of Viscount Stormont is a title in the Peerage of Scotland created in 1621 by James VI for Sir David Murray. It is a subsidiary title of the Earl of Mansfield and Mansfield. The family held land in this area and no doubt some connection exists between the title and the area.\n\nThe upper stone of a rotary quern was found about 1976 when ploughing some 350 m SSW of Old Graitney farmhouse, where it is still held by the finder, Mr S Smith. Slightly oval in shape it measures about 30 cm in maximum diameter and is made of granite or a similar rock; there are both central and side-holes.\n\nA local legend associates the Lochmaben Stone with the stone from which King Arthur pulled the sword Excalibur. However, this only agrees with some versions of the Arthurian legend. In other versions of the Arthurian legend, Excalibur was a sword that came from the water, and the sword in the stone does not have a name.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3605739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3605739", "title": "Locutionary act", "text": "Locutionary act\n\nIn linguistics and the philosophy of mind, a locutionary act is the performance of an utterance, and hence of a speech act. The term equally refers to the surface meaning of an utterance because, according to J. L. Austin's posthumous \"How To Do Things With Words\", a speech act should be analysed as a locutionary act (\"i.e.\" the actual utterance and its ostensible meaning, comprising phonetic, phatic and rhetic acts corresponding to the verbal, syntactic and semantic aspects of any meaningful utterance), as well as an illocutionary act (the semantic 'illocutionary force' of the utterance, thus its real, intended meaning), and in certain cases a further perlocutionary act (\"i.e.\" its actual effect, whether intended or not).\n\nFor example, the phrase \"Don't go into the water\" (a locutionary act with distinct phonetic, syntactic and semantic features) counts as warning to the listener not to go into the water (an illocutionary act). If the listener heeds the warning the speech-act has been successful in persuading the listener not to go into the water (a perlocutionary act). This taxonomy of speech acts was inherited by John R. Searle, Austin's pupil at Oxford and subsequently an influential exponent of speech act theory.\n\n"}
{"id": "2441993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2441993", "title": "Minoan language", "text": "Minoan language\n\nThe Minoan language is the language (or languages) of the ancient Minoan civilization of Crete written in the Cretan hieroglyphs and later in the Linear A syllabary. As the Cretan hieroglyphs are undeciphered and Linear A only partly deciphered, the Minoan language is unknown and unclassified: indeed, with the existing evidence, it seems impossible to be certain that the two scripts record the same language, or even that a single language is recorded in each. The Eteocretan language, attested in a few alphabetic inscriptions from Crete 1,000 years later, is possibly a descendant of Minoan, but it is itself unclassified.\n\nMinoan is mainly known from the inscriptions in Linear A, which are fairly legible by comparison with Linear B. The Cretan hieroglyphs are dated from the first half of the 2nd millennium BCE. The Linear A texts, mostly written in clay tablets, are spread all over Crete with more than 40 localities on the island. \n\nFrom the 18th dynasty of Egypt there are four texts containing names and sayings in the Keftiu language (). They are, as usual in non-Egyptian texts, written in Egyptian hieroglyphs, which allow a more precise pronunciation.\n\nOn the basis of these texts, the phonetic system of the Minoan language can be developed, which has the following phonemes:\n\n"}
{"id": "18118067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18118067", "title": "Mombum languages", "text": "Mombum languages\n\nThe Mombum languages are a pair of Trans–New Guinea languages, Koneraw and Mombum, spoken just off the southern coast of New Guinea.\n\nMombum was first classified as a branch isolate of the Central and South New Guinea languages in Stephen Wurm's 1975 expansion for Trans–New Guinea, a position tentatively maintained by Malcolm Ross, though he cannot tell if the similarities are shared innovations or retentions from proto-TNG. Usher instead links them to the Asmat languages. Koneraw is clearly related to Mombum, but was overlooked by early classifications. Along with the Kolopom languages, they are the languages spoken on Yos Sudarso Island (Kolopom Island).\n\nPronouns are:\n"}
{"id": "57104338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57104338", "title": "Mortal Kombat (film series)", "text": "Mortal Kombat (film series)\n\nMortal Kombat is an American series of martial arts action films based on the fighting video game series \"Mortal Kombat\" by Midway Games.\n\nThree unknown martial artists are summoned to a mysterious island to compete in a tournament whose outcome will decide the fate of the world.\n\nA group of martial arts warriors have only six days to save the Earth from an extra-dimensional invasion.\n\nThreshold Entertainment's production on a sequel was initially scheduled to commence shortly after the release of \"Mortal Kombat: Annihilation\", but it was shelved due to \"Annihilation's\" poor reception and disappointing box-office performance. It consequently never got off the ground as it remained stuck in development hell for over ten years, with numerous script rewrites and story changes, along with the 2005 destruction of New Orleans by Hurricane Katrina, which greatly affected one of the planned shooting locations.\nIn June 2009, a bankruptcy court lawsuit saw Lawrence Kasanoff suing Midway while mentioning that a third film was in the works. Warner Bros. (which became the parent of New Line Cinema in 2008, after over a decade of both operating as separate divisions of Time Warner) ended up purchasing most of Midway's assets, including \"Mortal Kombat\", the next month. In July 2009, actors Chris Casamassa (Scorpion) and Linden Ashby (Johnny Cage) separately announced that they would be reprising their respective roles from the original film, with Casamassa additionally claiming that filming would begin in September of that year, but the project still did not commence production, and aside from a poll that asked fans to vote on which major character they believed would die in the third movie, no official information on the project ever existed on the \"Mortal Kombat\" website hosted by Threshold, which itself permanently ceased updates in late 2004.\n\nIn September 2011, it was reported that New Line Cinema (\"Mortal Kombat\" film rights holders), sister studio to Warner Bros. (current franchise holders), had hired Kevin Tancharoen to direct a new feature-length film with the intention of aiming for an R rating. Oren Uziel, who wrote Tancharoen's 2010 short film \"\", was hired as the screenwriter while no actors nor other crew were confirmed. Reports stated that the film would not be an extension of the games nor Tancharoen's then-current \"\" web series. Shooting was expected to begin in March 2012 with a budget of well under $100 million and a release date of 2013, but was ultimately delayed due to budget constraints, and Tancharoen started working on the second season of \"Legacy\" until problems with the film had been sorted out. However, in October 2013, Tancharoen quit the film production.\nIn August 2015, James Wan signed on as producer, while in November 2016, \"Variety\" reported that Simon McQuoid was hired as director.\n\nKey\n\n"}
{"id": "6625937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6625937", "title": "Mount Taupiri", "text": "Mount Taupiri\n\nMount Taupiri is a hill at the southern end of the Taupiri Range in the Waikato. The highest peak in the range, it rises to 288 metres above sea level and overlooks Taupiri township immediately to its south. It is separated from the Hākarimata Range to the south by the Taupiri Gorge, through which the Waikato River flows from the Waikato Basin to the Lower Waikato. The Mangawara Stream joins the Waikato River at the base of the hill.\n\nMount Taupiri is a sacred mountain and burial ground for the Waikato tribe of the Māori people. Until sometime in the 19th century a large Māori village or town, Kaitotehe, stood on the flat land on the other side of the river, below the Hākarimata Range. In early years it was the home of Paoa, brother of Mahuta, before Paoa moved to Hauraki. It became the headquarters of the Ngāti Mahuta people. Brothers Whare and Tapuae, grandsons of Mahuta and the leaders of Ngāti Mahuta, lived there. After the two brothers were killed, Tapuae's son Te Putu built Taupiri pā on the summit of a spur of Taupiri mountain, in the 1600s. When Te Putu was an old man in the 1700s, he was treacherously killed by Ngātokowaru of Ngāti Raukawa at Te Mata-o-tutonga, his home outside the pā by the banks of the Waikato River. He was buried at the pā, which thus became tapu (sacred) and was abandoned. Early European travellers in the area were obliged by Māori to cross to the other side of the Waikato River to avoid the sacred area.\n\nIn the early 19th century Kaitotehe was the home of Pōtatau Te Wherowhero, the paramount chief of Ngāti Mahuta who became the first Māori King. English explorer and artist George French Angas visited Kaitotehe in 1844 and painted a scene depicting a \"hui\" (meeting) taking place in the village. Taupiri mountain is seen in the background on the other side of the Waikato River (which is not visible below the far palisade). The lower peak on the far right shows signs of the terraces of Te Putu's abandoned pā. To its left, in about the middle of the painting, is a still-lower bush-clad hill, which was the burial ground in Te Putu's time and below which his home of Te Mata-o-tutonga stood.\n\nThe present-day burial ground is directly above State Highway 1 and the North Island Main Trunk railway line on a steep slope. Parking and access is difficult, because the road and railway lie largely on land at the foot of the slope that has been reclaimed from the river. The deceased Māori kings and queen are buried in the highest part of the cemetery, on the summit where Te Putu's pā stood.\n\n"}
{"id": "16966199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16966199", "title": "Ngaben", "text": "Ngaben\n\nNgaben, also known as Pitra Yadyna, Pelebon or cremation ceremony, is the Hindu funeral ritual of Bali, Indonesia. A Ngaben is performed, states Victoria Williams, to release the soul of a dead person so that it can enter the upper realm where it can wait for it to be reborn or become liberated from the cycles of rebirths. The Balinese Hindu theology holds that there is a competition between evil residents of the lower realm to capture this soul, and a proper cremation enhances the chance that it may reach the upper realm.\nA quick Ngaben is preferred, but usually too expensive. In Balinese culture, people go through an interim state where they bury the dead for a while usually near \"Pura Prajapati\", pool funds and cremate many recently dead on the same day in an elaborate community-based Ngaben ceremony. Once the families are financially ready, they select an auspicious day, make \"bade\" (coffins) to carry the deads, and announce the event in the village. The families also make a \"patulangan\" to cremate the body in, which is either a \"lembu\" (bull or mythical animal-shaped bamboo-wood-paper coffin) to burn with the dead, or a wooden \"wadah\" (temple-like structure). Once the corpse is ready for the cremation ground, it is washed, dressed in Balinese attire, family and friends pay their last goodbye with prayers and the mourners take it for cremation. They carry the corpses with rites, dressed in traditional attire, accompanied with \"gamelan\" music and singing, to the \"kuburan\" (cremation grounds). If the path passes through major road crossings, the coffin is rotated three times to confuse the evil residents of the lower realm.\nAt the cremation ground, the corpse is placed into the bull-shaped \"lembu\" or temple-shaped \"wadah\", final hymns are recited and the cremation pyre lit. While the corpse burns, the Balinese music team plays the \"beleganjur\" music, a battle song symbolizing the soul's fight with evil underworld to reach the worry-free upper realm. Twelve days after the cremation, the families collect the ashes, fill it inside coconut shell, carry it to nearby river or sea to return the remains back to the elements.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "336522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=336522", "title": "Ngaruawahia", "text": "Ngaruawahia\n\nNgaruawahia (Māori: \"Ngāruawāhia\"; ) is a town in the Waikato region of the North Island of New Zealand. It is located north-west of Hamilton at the confluence of the Waikato and Waipa Rivers, adjacent to the Hakarimata Range. Ngaruawahia lies within the Hamilton Urban Area, the fourth largest urban area in New Zealand. The location was once considered as a potential capital of New Zealand.\n\nThe name \"Ngāruawāhia\" means \"the opened food pits\", which derives from a great feast in the 17th century. Te Ngaere, a Ngāti Tamainupō chief, and Heke-i-te-rangi, a Ngāti Maniapoto woman, had eloped and settled at Ngaruawahia, causing a rift between their tribes. When their first child was born, Ngāti Maniapoto were invited to the celebration in an attempt to reconcile the tribes. Te Ngaere's father named the boy Te Mana-o-te-rangi in honour of Ngāti Maniapoto. Peace was established between the tribes, and Te Ngaere shouted \"Wāhia ngā rua\" (break open the food pits).\n\nDuring the 19th century, Ngaruawahia was named Queenstown and then Newcastle. However, the town returned to the original name in 1878. Despite Māori protest, sales of confiscated land went ahead in 1864, shortly after the invasion.\n\nA gas power station was built in Herschell St in 1913 by the Town Board for lighting. It used Glen Massey coal, which was converted to gas in a Cambridge Patent Gas Producer (many were used about this time in Australasia) and used to drive a 2-cylinder gas engine. It closed in 1924. Much of the machinery was removed in 1950 and from 1954 the building was used as a scout hall.\n\nOfficers from the United States visited Ngaruawahia during World War II and would share food at hāngis. Queen Elizabeth II has visited Ngaruawahia on two occasions (1953 & 1974). On the latter occasion, then Māori Queen Dame Te Ātairangikaahu and her husband Whatumoana Paki welcomed Queen Elizabeth II to the local marae. The Great Ngaruawahia Music Festival was held in 1973, and featured many music acts, including some that went on to become internationally famous such as Black Sabbath and Split Enz. It was the first large outdoor music festival in New Zealand.\n\nIn 1980, Mayor Latta released a book about the history of the town titled 'Meeting of the Waters'.\n\nIn March 1998, a freight train derailed on the local North Island Main Trunk line's rail bridge across the Waikato River. The incident caused structural damage to the bridge.\n\nBy April 2001, the damaged rail bridge was mended.\n\nIn 2008, Ngaruawahia set a world record for the largest haka and by 2010 the town had its own community news.\n\nIn 2011, murals were installed for Ngaruawahia's 150th anniversary in 2013 Ngaruawahia High School (which opened in 1963) celebrated its 50th anniversary in 2013.\n\nIn May 2016, Heather du Plessis-Allan (an NZME broadcaster) claimed that the \"town is rotting\". The broadcaster later accepted a challenge to visit the town and an article relating to the incident appeared on a Waikato Times front page. According to Waikato District Mayor Allan Sanson, du Plessis-Allan \"really upset locals\". In June 2016, local mayor Allan Sanson said du Plessis-Allan spent around three hours in the town, apologizing to residents.\n\nUntil the Waikato invasion the rivers were the main transport routes, but, after the Great South Road and main trunk line were built, the rivers became barriers, which needed crossings.\n\nAs early as 1870 a public meeting called for a bridge, but a punt continued to be the main means of crossing the river until the road-rail bridge opened for traffic in 1876. So long as there were few trains, there was little complaint that gates closed 10 minutes before a train was due. However, by the 1900s road and rail traffic was increasing, averaging 20 trains, 275 pedestrians, 43 equestrians, 29 light vehicles, 18 milk carts, 6 wagons, and 55 stock a day in 1910.\n\nA survey for a road bridge was done in 1911. Test borings for piles were done in 1912. The Ngaruawahia Town Board and Waikato, Waipa, and Raglan County Councils agreed to share the cost in 1914. The State Advances office lent £2,500 for the bridge in 1915. Wartime shortages caused further delays, but by 1917 the new bridge was taking shape. Further delay occurred when additional piles had to be driven. The Minister reported the work well in hand in 1919, but then a temporary bridge, used in construction, was hit by a steamer. Work got under way again, £3,000 was in the Public Works Estimates and the bridge was reported complete in 1920, except for its approaches. The bridge opened in 1921 and, on 28 July 1921, was officially opened by the Minister of Public Works, J. G. Coates. It was wide and long, made up of 3 x , a and a span. Two piers were in the river on concrete cylinders sunk below normal water-level. The others were reinforced concrete on concrete piling and the deck and trusses of Australian hardwood.\n\nComplaints had been made about a single-lane bridge since before it was built, so, when the new NIMT bridge was built, the Main Highways Board leased the old one and added decking. The conversion was completed in early November 1931, allowing 2-way traffic. Single lane traffic was reinstated for a few months in 1936 to allow a truss on the 1921 bridge to be replaced. Traffic was still increasing. In 1935 traffic between Ohinewai and Ngaruawahia averaged 660 vehicles a day. By 1938 it had risen to 1,329.\n\nOn 13 March 1953 a contract was let for a new steel truss bridge. An April 1955 photo shows two piers in the river. On 20 August 1955 the centre span was placed and a 1955 photo shows the bridge almost finished. The first car drove over the bridge on 19 October 1956. By 2008 17,392 vehicles a day were crossing the bridge. No more recent counts have been published, but, after the opening of the Taupiri link in 2013, traffic on the Great South Rd in Ngaruawahia, was 12,467 in 2015, suggesting that traffic on the bridge has been reduced by about 5,000 vehicles a day.\n\nNgaruawahia's history is reflected in the number of its Listed Buildings -\n\nCategory 1 Turangawaewae House built in 1912-1919 as Te Kauhanganui building in a fusion of Arts and Crafts and traditional Māori styles;\n\nCategory 2 - Band Rotunda, Delta Tavern, Doctor's House, former bakery, former Flourmill Store, former Māori pā - Puke i Ahua, Grant's Chambers, 13 Lower Waikato Esplanade, 2 Old Taupiri Rd, Pioneer Gun Turret, Riverdale, St Paul's Church, War Memorial.\n\nNgaruawahia is home to the Kīngitanga. The first Māori King, Pōtatau Te Wherowhero, was crowned at Ngaruawahia in 1858 and was living there when he died two years later. The current Māori King is Tūheitia Paki; he obtained the throne at Tūrangawaewae Marae immediately following his mother's passing in 2006.\n\nA local gang is Tribal Huk, who have been seen as heroes by the community for providing lunches to schoolchildren in Ngaruawahia, Hamilton and Huntly. In particular, they have been known for making sandwiches, which earned them the nickname \"Sandwich Gang\".\n\nIn October 2016, Tribal Huk president Jamie Pink started a movement against methamphetamine, known in New Zealand as \"P\". Waikato District Mayor Allan Sanson supported Pink's message to Ngaruawahia methamphetamine dealers to either leave the town within 24 hours or \"visits\" would begin.\nThe demand was also supported by members of the community who had gathered at a local meeting, as methamphetamine was blamed for an apparent rise of crime in the town. According to a gang source, Ngaruawahia became P free, but the Police Association stated that there was no evidence that P dealers had left Ngaruawahia. There is additionally concern Pink has damaged the work that Tribal Huk did feeding a thousand Waikato schoolchildren.\n\nIn November 2016, another community meeting was held. Pink was not present.\"\n\nIn the 1996 census, the majority of residents identified as Christian. A Bible is traditionally used during the crowning of a Māori monarch. In 1995, the Holy Trinity Anglican Church burned down, and a new church had been built in its place by 1998.\n\nOn the northern side of the Waipa River is the Christian Youth Camps (CYC), the largest youth camp site in New Zealand. CYC started in the early 1960s with large Easter conventions. Today there are two separate camp sites on 38 hectares of land. The camp offers school holiday camps throughout the year. During the terms, the camps are used by various groups, including schools, churches and sporting organisations.\n\nNgaruawahia United, known as \"The Green Machine\", is the local football (soccer) club, founded in 1968. Centennial Park serves as the home ground for the club, and has been the home venue for ASB Premiership side Waikato FC in past seasons.\n\nThe town's rugby league teams are Ngaruawahia Panthers and Tūrangawaewae.\nThe Ngaruawahia Rugby League Club is the oldest such club in the Waikato. Early games were played on varying venues, for instance Taupiri paddock and Paterson Park. The first major match for the town was held in August 1911 when they lost to Auckland 22 - 36 at the Caledonian Ground in Frankton. Ngaruawahia did however beat Hamilton United 27 - 4 in the first ever Northern Union game to be played at Hamilton's Steele Park in 1912. The senior team were Champion of Champions in 1956 and 1957.\n\nNgaruawahia is the home of the rugby league team Turangawaewae RLC, which is named after the marae opposite the clubrooms. The club currently holds the record for the first team to win consecutive titles in the annual Waicoa Bay Premiers Competition, consisting of all teams in the Waikato, Coast and Bay Of Plenty regions.\nNgaruawahia Rugby League Club (Panthers) are 2011 champions, Premiers, U17, U14, U13 are all champions.\n\nThe local regatta has been a fundamental event for the region for well over a century. An event is held every year in March on the Waikato River. The first regatta was an unofficial event in 1892, involving both Māori and Pākehā festivities. The regatta provided a means of association between two ethnic groups, socially and culturally. The first official regatta took place in 1896 and since then has grown to become one of New Zealand's largest aquatic festivals. During the centennial regatta in March 1996, over 48,000 people visited the town to see thousands of performers from a number of countries.\n\nFor many years, jumping off the rail bridge has been a tradition. However, groups such as KiwiRail want the practice to end.\n\nHopuhopu is north of Ngaruawahia. From 1853 Hopuhopu had a boys' mission school, which lost most of its pupils in 1862 and, by 1863, was reported as in disrepair. The mission house burnt down in 1886. An army camp was built on the mission site in the 1920s, including its own water supply, ammunition dumps and a railway siding. A 1925 photograph showed only one building and many tents, but a 1955 aerial photo showed the extent of building, which was largely complete by 1927. In 1993 the camp was returned to Waikato-Tainui, who converted it to their headquarters and Waikato-Tainui College for Research and Development.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27728102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27728102", "title": "Nutrition Foundation of the Philippines", "text": "Nutrition Foundation of the Philippines\n\nThe Nutrition Foundation of the Philippines, Inc. (NFP) is a Philippine private, non-stock, non-profit organization dedicated to promoting good nutrition in Filipino communities. The NFP was founded by National Scientist, Dr. Juan Salcedo, Jr.\n\nThe NFP was founded on December 28, 1959, registered at the Securities and Exchange Commission on January 18, 1960, and officially began operations on July 15, 1960. \n\n\nThe NFP is known for various nutritional education programs.\nThey have also implemented the Urban Family Development Program in 1991 to improve the nutritional status of depressed urban families through livelihood assistance and health and nutrition classes and services.\n\nA unique feature of the NHKC is the participation of the volunteer teachers who handle all the classes without any compensation. Usually, they are mothers or youth from the community/ barangay who are trained to teach the preschool aged 4–6 years. They are called “MOTHER COORDINATORS (MCs) or NUTRITION YOUTH COORDINATORS (NYCs)”, respectively. The NHKC follows the school calendar, from June of the current year till March of succeeding year. Classes are held daily or 2-3 times a week, depending on the community. A session lasts for 2 hours.\n\nThe NHKC has a supplementary feeding component. Primarily, the feeding aims to show the child and their mothers on how to feed them properly and to internalize the topics/subjects taught in the NHKC. Foods served are nutritious, easy -to -prepare and economical, which can also be prepared and served at home for the rest of the family members. The marketing, preparation, and cooking are done by the mothers of the children for the supplementary feeding sessions.\n\nThis is one of the major activities of the Foundation that focus on the development of the family members to be responsible for the betterment of their health and ultimately improving the quality of their lives through: conscious recognition of each and everyone’s responsibility to themselves, family and community; providing opportunities and support to augment regular income through learning of some income generating activities, improved health and nutrition condition of their families through the implementation of some direct nutrition intervention activities; and developing skills in the implementation and management of community nutrition project and related activities. Some of its components include the following:\n\nNFP promotes activities that help individuals realize his value and potentials towards the development of the communities where he lived. It is the main goal of this program to make people realize a very important role he is to play for the success of their plans for the benefit of the community.\n\nNFP helps organize the communities and facilitates group dynamics, teambuilding activities and programs designed to promote camaraderie, teamwork, and cooperation among the people. Yearly program planning and evaluation focusing on problems encountered in the program implementation is also regularly conducted.\n\nIn cooperation with the local health centers or district health units- medical, dental, and nutrition services are conducted. A team of doctors, dentists, nutritionists, and barangay health worker goes around the puroks of the barangay, on a regular schedule, to render services such as deworming, regular weighing, and dietary counseling.\n\nCurrently, the FDP is being undertaken in communities of Quezon City namely – Brgy. Santol, Brgy. Doña Imelda, Sitios Kaingin I, Kaingin II, and Proper of Brgy. Pansol and Sitios Chamberette, Mary Town, Park 7, and Daan-Tubo of Brgy. Loyola Heights; Tondo, Manila, and in the whole Municipality of Alaminos, Laguna.\n\n In the past years, the Foundation invited speakers who discussed topics on: “Collaboration and Institutional Development, The Politics of International Nutrition; Nutritional Repercussions of Developmental Transition; Perspectives and Challenges in Nutrition in the Philippines; Cancer and You; Management of Nutrition Programs by Local Executives; Infant and Young Child Nutrition; Coconut Oil and Cardio-Vascular Diseases, and Strategies in the Prevention and Management of Hidden Hungers”.\n\nAnother way of ensuring effectiveness in the use of scarce resources is by networking and coordinating with the different agencies that aim and work with a common objective. This program is done mainly through cooperative services with GOs and NGOs in the country as well as international agencies/organizations; membership in working committees/advocacy groups; provision of resource persons/speakers; and consultation services.\n\nFor a number of years, NFP has been the Philippines Adhering Body of the International Union of Nutritional Sciences (IUNS). It is also a Founding Member of the Southeast Asia Public Health Nutrition Network (SEA-PHN). Likewise, it has maintained linkages with other international agencies such as the Federation of Asian Nutrition Societies (FANS), UNICEF, International Food Policy Research Institute, Helen Keller International, and the World Health Organization.\nThe Foundation publishes various books of nutritious recipes.\n\n"}
{"id": "56377332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56377332", "title": "Passerelle de Bessengué", "text": "Passerelle de Bessengué\n\nThe Passerelle de Bessengue is an artwork in Douala (Cameroon). It is a wooden bridge with an iron handrail, painted in different colors, each one representing people of different ethnic groups holding hands. It was inaugurated during the Salon Urbain de Douala en 2007.\n\nThe Passerelle de Bessengue is a wooden bridge with an iron handrail, painted in different colors, each one representing people of different ethnic groups holding hands. La Passerelle was designed by the Cameroonian artist Alioum Moussa. It was initially conceived as a cooperation development project funded by the Institut Régional de Coopération-Développement d’Alsace (Ircod-Alsace), the Municipality of Douala I, and doual’art. As project coordinator, doual’art ran a community-based approach involving the local Development Community of Bessengue-Akwa (CDBA) from the conceptualization phase to the project production. \n\nDuring the process, an artistic contest was organized in order to provide La Passerelle with aesthetical features. On five projects submitted, the selection fell on Alioum Moussa. His proposal aroused among the community a critical discussion and self-reflection about historical conflicts among autochthonous and non-native populations. The success of the project by Moussa was to create a link between art and community experiences, documenting shared intentions to promote and pursue a peaceful collaboration for future generations. La Passerelle was officially inaugurated during the and restored two times. In 2009, Malika Ouedraogo and Cecile Demessine repainted the handrail. In the occasion of the , the Municipality of Douala funded the replacement of a handrail side and some broken wood planches.\n\nLa Passerelle has disclosed the block 1 of Bessengue to one of the busiest roads of Douala, facilitating the circulation of people, vehicles, and the provision of public services. Its position at the entrance of the neighborhood has contributed to create a square between La Passerelle and the first houses. This area, commonly known as Vallée Bessengue, has become an important landmark for children, young people and women who meet there to play, to date and to shop, surrounded by other art installations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "555539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=555539", "title": "Production designer", "text": "Production designer\n\nIn film and television, a production designer (PD) is the person responsible for the overall visual look of the production. Production designers have a key creative role in the creation of motion pictures and television. Working directly with the director, cinematographer, and producer, they must select the settings and style to visually tell the story. The term \"production designer\" was coined by William Cameron Menzies while he was working on the film \"Gone with the Wind\". Previously (and often subsequently) the people with the same responsibilities were called \"art directors\". It is sometimes also described as \"scenic design\" or \"set design\".\n\nIn the United States and British Columbia, production designers are represented by the International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees local 800, the Art Directors Guild. The production design credit must be requested by the producer, prior to completion of photography, and submitted to the Art Directors Guild Board of Directors for the credit approval. \nIn the rest of Canada, production designers are represented by the Director's Guild of Canada.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2687962", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2687962", "title": "Reproduction of Croatian currency", "text": "Reproduction of Croatian currency\n\nThe reproduction of Croatian currency is regulated by the Croatian National Bank.\n\nThe Bank issued an act regarding this matter on February 28, 2002. The decisions most relevant to reproductions of Croatian banknotes are listed in Article 10, titled \"Reproduction\", which states the following:\n\nThe title of the document is: \"Decision regarding handling of banknotes and coins of kuna and lipa unsuitable for usage\", but Article 10 seems to refer to all banknotes that the Croatian National Bank has published, not only kuna and lipa. There is no other document regarding reproduction of Croatian currency and there is no specific mention of \"unsuitability for usage\" in this article. There is no separate document resolving the status of coins so it is to be assumed that the word \"banknote\" (in original: \"novčanice\") includes coins too.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9553620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9553620", "title": "Soft energy technology", "text": "Soft energy technology\n\nSoft energy technologies may be seen as \"appropriate\" renewable technologies. Soft energy technologies are not simply renewable energy technologies, as there are many renewable energy technologies which are not regarded as \"soft\".\n\nMore specifically, soft energy technologies have five defining characteristics. They rely on renewable energy resources, are diverse and designed for maximum effectiveness in particular circumstances, are flexible and relatively simple to understand, are matched to end-use needs in terms of scale, and are matched to end-use needs in terms of quality. An energy technology must satisfy all five of these criteria to be soft.\n\nResidential solar energy technologies are prime examples of soft energy technologies and rapid deployment of simple, energy conserving, residential solar energy technologies is fundamental to a soft energy strategy. \"Active\" residential solar technologies use special devices to collect and convert the sun's rays to useful energy and are located near the users they supply. Passive residential solar technologies (passive house) involve the natural transfer (by radiation, convection and conduction) of solar energy without the use of mechanical devices.\n\nThe term soft is not meant to be vague, speculative, or ephemeral, but rather sustainable, flexible, resilient, and benign. Soft technology impacts are generally seen to be more \"gentle, pleasant and manageable\" than high technology impacts. These impacts range from the individual and household level to those affecting the very fabric of society at the national and international level. More specifically, favourable socio-political impacts include:\n\nThe use of soft energy technologies, in conjunction with energy efficiency, and the transitional use of fossil fuel technology, comprise the soft energy path.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2940677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2940677", "title": "The House by the Cemetery", "text": "The House by the Cemetery\n\nThe House by the Cemetery () is a 1981 Italian horror film directed by Lucio Fulci. The film stars Catriona MacColl, Paolo Malco, Ania Pieroni, Giovanni Frezza, Silvia Collatina and Dagmar Lassander. Its plot revolves around a series of murders taking place in a New England home–a home which happens to be hiding a gruesome secret within its basement walls. \n\nA woman (Daniela Doria) is in an abandoned house looking for her boyfriend. After she discovers his body stabbed with scissors, she is stabbed in the head with a French knife, and her body is dragged through a cellar door.\n\nIn New York City, Bob (Giovanni Frezza) and his parents, Norman and Lucy Boyle (Paolo Malco and Catriona MacColl), are moving into the same house. Norman's ex-colleague, Dr. Peterson, who murdered his mistress before committing suicide, was the previous owner. The Boyles are to stay there, whilst Norman researches old houses. As his mother packs, Bob looks at a photograph of a house and notices a girl in it. In New Whitby, Boston, Bob waits in his parents' car while they collect the house keys. The girl from the photograph appears across the street. The girl, Mae (Silvia Collatina), whom only Bob can see, warns him to stay away. In the real estate office, Mrs. Gittleson (Dagmar Lassander) is annoyed when her colleague hands the couple \"the Freudstein\" keys. She insists it is called \"Oak Mansion\", and promises to find the Boyles a babysitter.\n\nOak Mansion is in a poor state of repair. The cellar door is locked and nailed shut. A woman arrives and introduces herself as Ann, the babysitter (Ania Pieroni). That night, Norman hears noises and finds Ann unblocking the cellar door. The next day, Norman goes to the library to peruse Peterson's materials. The chief librarian, Mr. Wheatley (Carlo De Mejo), appears to recognize him. but Norman claims he is mistaken. The assistant librarian, Daniel Douglas (Giampaolo Saccarola), then informs Norman that Peterson conducted private research at the house. He studied records of area disappearances and other demographic data.\n\nMae shows Bob a tombstone on the grounds marked \"Mary Freudstein\" and says she is not really buried there. Indoors, Lucy finds the tombstone of \"Jacob Tess Freudstein\" while sweeping the hallway. When Norman returns, he reassures her that some older houses have indoor tombs because of the hard wintry ground. Norman opens the cellar door and walks down the stairs, only to be attacked by a bat, which won't let go until he stabs it repeatedly. Spooked, the family drives down to the real estate office and demands to be re-housed, but are told it will be a few more days before they can move. While the Boyles are at hospital to treat Norman's injuries from the bat, Mrs. Gittleson arrives at the house to tell them of a new property. Letting herself in, she stands over the Freudstein tombstone, which cracks apart, pinning her ankle. A figure emerges, stabs her in the neck with a fireplace poker, and drags her into the cellar.\n\nThe next morning, Lucy finds Ann cleaning a bloodstain on the kitchen floor. Ann eludes Lucy's questions about the stain. Over coffee, Norman tells Lucy that he's discovered that Freudstein was a Victorian surgeon who conducted illegal experiments. Norman must travel to New York to research Freudstein. On the way, Norman drops by the library and finds a cassette of Peterson's, which explains Freudstein killed his family. Ann goes to the cellar looking for Bob, but Freudstein decapitates her after slashing her throat. Bob sees Ann's head, and exits screaming. Lucy refuses to believe Bob's tale about Ann. That evening, Bob returns to the cellar looking for Ann but gets locked in. Lucy hears Bob's cries and tries to open the cellar door. When she cannot open it, Norman returns and attacks it with an hatchet. The rotting hands of Freudstein (Giovanni De Nava) appear and restrain Bob. Norman cuts the monster's hand off, and he staggers away, bleeding.\n\nNorman and Lucy finally get into the cellar, which contains several mutilated bodies (including Ann, Mrs. Gittleson, and the couple from the beginning of the film), surgical equipment, and a slab. Freudstein is a living corpse with rotting flesh. Norman tells Lucy that the 150-year-old Freudstein lives by using his victims' parts to regenerate blood cells. Norman attacks Freudstein, but the ghoul twists the hatchet away. He grabs a dagger off a tray and stabs Freudstein. Freudstein picks up Norman and rips his throat out. Lucy and Bob climb a ladder leading to the cracked tombstone. Lucy strains to shift the stone, but Freudstein grabs her and drags her down the stairs, killing her by ramming her head into the concrete floor. As Freudstein advances up the ladder, Bob strains to escape. As Freudstein grabs Bob's leg, he is suddenly yanked upwards by Mae. With Mae is her mother, Mary Freudstein (Teresa Rossi Passante), who tells them it's time to leave. Mrs. Freudstein leads Mae and Bob down the wintry grove into a netherworld of ghosts and sadness.\n\n\n\"The House by the Cemetery\" was released in Italy on August 14, 1981.\n\nAnchor Bay Entertainment released the film in its full uncut version in 2001 with a new transfer. It was re-released by Blue Underground on Blu-ray (as well as a new DVD edition) on 25 October 2011 with a new 2K transfer.\n\nFilm review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes reported an approval rating of 38%, based on , with a rating average of 4.7/10.\n\nIn a contemporary review, Julian Petley (\"Monthly Film Bulletin\") commented that the film had a \"Frankenstein theme\" but that \"the film adds little to the well-worked legend\" and that \"this would matter less were the film visually richer, but for the most part it is comparatively sober and restrained, at least by Fulci standards\" Petley continued that \"the film undeniably has its moments–Bob's escape from the cellar; the human debris of Freudstein's laboratory; an attack by a particularly ferocious and tenacious bat; the climactic appearance of the horribly mutated Fruedstein\"\n\n\"Time Out\" called the film \"a hack-work of almost awesome incoherence\". Allmovie praised the film, complimenting its atmosphere.\n\n"}
{"id": "1683858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1683858", "title": "Tourism in the United Kingdom", "text": "Tourism in the United Kingdom\n\nThe United Kingdom is the world's 6th biggest tourist destination, with 36.115 million visiting in 2015. US$22.072 billion was spent in the UK by foreign tourists. VisitBritain data shows that the USA remains the most valuable inbound market, with American visitors spending £2.1 billion in 2010. Nevertheless, the number of travellers originating from Europe is much larger than those travelling from North America: 21.5 million compared to 3.5 million American/Canadian visitors.\n\nThe country's principal tourist destinations are in London, e.g. the Tower of London is one of the most visited attractions in the country.\n\nDomestic tourism remains the biggest component of tourist spending in the UK, with 2008 expenditures totalling £21,881 million, according to VisitBritain. The national statistical agency also estimates that there were 126 million trips made in 2009. The busiest period for domestic travel in the UK is during bank holidays and the summer months, with August being the busiest. There is a longstanding history in the UK of travel to coastal resorts such as Blackpool, Lancashire and Swansea, Wales, with many families staying at accommodation called holiday camps. This tradition has faded significantly due to competition from overseas package holiday operators, rising operational costs, and rapidly changing demand which forced many holiday camps to close in the 1980s and 1990s.\n\nFor more information on tourism in the United Kingdom please see the articles for the constituent parts of the UK:\n\n"}
{"id": "33432046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33432046", "title": "Tribes with Flags", "text": "Tribes with Flags\n\n\"Tribes With Flags\" is part of a phrase attributed to Tahseen Bashir, an Egyptian diplomat (April 1925 - June 11, 2002). Regarding his belief in the centrality of Egypt within the Middle East he opined: \"Egypt is the only nation-state in the Arab world; the rest are just tribes with flags\".\n\nAnother version of Mr. Bashir’s ‘flag’ quip is: \" 'When the chips are down, there is only one real place in the entire area – Egypt,' a Cairo diplomat once declared. 'All the rest – forgive me – are tribes with flags.' \" Two book title take-offs on this quote are \"Tribes With Flags: A Dangerous Passage Through the Chaos of the Middle East\" (Apr. 1990) and \"Tribes With Flags: A Journey Curtailed\" (1992), both by Charles Glass.\n"}
{"id": "4955753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4955753", "title": "Tōi Umi kara Kita Coo", "text": "Tōi Umi kara Kita Coo\n\n"}
{"id": "50524792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50524792", "title": "Union of Russian Writers and Journalists in Paris", "text": "Union of Russian Writers and Journalists in Paris\n\nThe Union of Russian Writers and Journalists in Paris () was a literary organization formed in July 1920. In 1921 Ivan Bunin was elected its first chairman, to be succeeded a year later by Pavel Milyukov who held this post for many years. Another stalwart was Vladimir Zeeler, the Union's secretary for thirty years. \n\nAmong the members of the Union's executive committee were Alexey N. Tolstoy, Sergey Polyakov, D.S. Mirsky; later Alexander Yablonovsky, Konstantin Balmont, Valentin Bulgakov, Alexander Kuprin, Mark Slonim, Sergey Varshavsky, Sergei Efron, Boris Zaytsev, Ivan Shmelyov, Mark Aldanov, Don-Aminado, Nadezhda Teffi, Sasha Chyorny, Kirill Zaytsev, Vadim Rudnev. The Union had no publication of its own, the works of its members were published mostly by the Petropolis Publishers, as well as \"Sovremennye Zapiski\" (Contemporary Notes) magazine and \"Vozrozhdenye\" (Revival) newspaper. As the Nazi German troops entered Paris, the Union of Russian Writers and Journalists in Paris disbanded.\n"}
{"id": "23969343", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23969343", "title": "Universities' Statistical Record", "text": "Universities' Statistical Record\n\nIn the United Kingdom, USR, the Universities Statistical Record consists of records of undergraduate students on courses of one academic year or more; postgraduate students on courses of one academic year or more; academic and related staff holding regular salaried appointments, and finance data for all UK universities. It was compiled by UCCA, the Universities Central Council on Admissions from its formation in 1961 until its merger with PCAS (Polytechnics Central Admissions Service) to form UCAS in 1993.\n\nThe Higher Education Statistics Agency (HESA) became the official agency for the collection, analysis and dissemination of quantitative information about higher education in 1993. http://www.hesa.ac.uk/index.php/content/view/4/54/ It was set up by agreement between the relevant government departments, the higher education funding councils and the universities and colleges in 1993, following the White Paper “Higher Education: a new framework”, which called for more coherence in HE statistics, and the 1992 Higher and Further Education Acts, which established an integrated higher education system throughout the United Kingdom.\n\nFinance: income and expenditure; university; cost centre. The Finance dataset contains details of income and expenditure for all of the UK universities. These data are contained in a series of files for each year.\n\nStudent load: undergraduate, postgraduate (taught course or research); cost centre.\n\nTime Period Covered: 1964 - 1993\nCountry: United Kingdom\n\nThe Finance data were collected from annual returns based on the university financial year (August to July).\nMethod of Data Collection: Annual returns from each university were collated by UCCA.\n\n"}
{"id": "13549894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13549894", "title": "You Are the One (Argentine TV series)", "text": "You Are the One (Argentine TV series)\n\nYou Are the One (, lit.: \"You Are My Life\") is a 2006 Argentine romantic comedy television series, directed by Rodolfo Antúnez and Jorge Bechara and broadcast by El Trece between January 16, 2006, and January 9, 2007. It is the second telenovela starring Facundo Arana and Natalia Oreiro as lead actors. The production included many location shootings, even during the 2006 FIFA World Cup in Germany, and many guest stars.\n\nThe plot follows the love story of Martín Quesada, an affluent businessman, and Esperanza Muñoz, a struggling female boxer who becomes his personal assistant. During its broadcast its overall rating averaged 26.9 points. It was critically acclaimed, and won four Martín Fierro Awards and three Clarín Awards. It was sold to more than 40 countries and had remakes in Mexico, Poland and Portugal.\n\nThe telenovela was produced by Pol-ka based on a premise by Adrián Suar, which he formulated nearly six months before the show's premiere, after discussion with his partner Javier Blanco y Tevah. The premise involves a rich businessman and former Formula 1 racing driver who falls in love with a poor woman looking for work in his emporium. Suar requested scripts from Ernesto Korovsky and Sebastian Parrotta, the authors of \"Gasoleros\" and \"El sodero de mi vida\", and \"Hombres de honor\" and \"Padre Coraje\" respectively. The program was directed by Daniel De Felippo and Rodolfo Antúnez and produced by César Markus González. Most of the filming was done in the Pol-ka studio at the Colegiales neighborhood, using outdoor scenes unconventional for the genre.\n\nThe telenovela features Facundo Arana and Natalia Oreiro, who both appeared in the successful telenovela \"Muñeca Brava\", as lead actors. The relationship between the two was more than professional; Facundo Arana had spontaneously been offered a guest appearance on the Russian series \"A ritmo de tango\" starring Oreiro. Both actors agreed to appear in \"You Are the One\" on the condition that they worked together. As a result, the program design was decided only after both were confirmed in the leading roles. Oreiro delayed filming proposals in Israel, Spain, and Uruguay, and the recording of her fourth music album to join the project. As in \"Muñeca Brava\", the narrative of \"You Are the One\" revolves around a wealthy suitor and a poor woman, but unlike the former program it does not concentrate all the characters on a single narrative context. \"You Are the One\" organizes two contexts for both the rich and the poor, each one with its own characteristic locations and supporting characters.\n\nNatalia Oreiro plays Esperanza Muñoz, a female boxer nicknamed \"La Monita\". Oreiro was inspired by the singer Gilda to outline the character's personality. The main location is a tenement in the neighborhood of La Boca where Esperanza lives with other characters. Her adoptive mother Nieves lives with Enrique \"Quique\" Ferreti, her natural son and Esperanza's childhood boyfriend. The writers drafted Quique's general outlines; Belloso defined most of his personality, including the relationship with Esperanzawhich is halfway between engagement and brotherhoodand his Oedipus complex with his mother. Esperanza trains as a boxer in a neighbourhood gymnasium with Quique, who has a wrestling gimmick as \"Commander Ray\". Other main characters in the series are actress Nilda Yadhur, known as \"The Turk\", and Paraguayan janitor Kimberly.\n\nThe character of Martín Quesada establishes a context of wealthy characters. Quesada is a businessman and Formula 1 driver, but is not presented as selfish or greedy as is the archetype of entrepreneurs in soap operas. The two locations associated with him are the Quesada Group office, presided over by him, and his home. The office has the characters of Quesada's chief adviser Alfredo Uribe, the secretary Mercedes, and his cousin Miguel Quesada, who serves as vice-president, and the lawyer Felix Perez Garmendia. His girlfriend Constanza Insua and his cousin Debbie are also included. Martín lives with his housekeeper Rosa, Rosa's grandson Tony, and three adopted orphan siblings, José, Laura, and Coqui. Another recurring site is the apartment of Miguel and Debbie, which would be also used as the house of Constanza or Garmendia if needed.\nThe story begins during a boxing match of Esperanza Muñoznicknamed \"Monita\"who has sustained a hand injury. Her manager, Enrique \"Quique\" Ferreti, is pressuring her to continue fighting, despite her pain. This injury complicates her economic situation, as her boxing provides the only income for her adoptive family, namely Quique and his mother, Maria de las Nieves. Nieves loves Esperanza like her own daughter, and pressures her to marry Quique. Her neighbor Kimberly suggests that Esperanza apply for a job in the Quesada Group, where she works as a janitress. The secretary Mercedes rejects Esperanza due to her violent manners and her dressing style. Martín Quesada, the president of the company, sees Esperanza crying in the street and hires her as his personal assistant.\n\nMartín also meets three orphan siblings, José, Laura, and Coqui, who resisted being adopted by different families. He takes them to his home, and starts the legal proceedings to adopt them. Martín begins to like Esperanza, but his girlfriend Constanza, a cold, manipulative, and malicious woman, is wary of her. Esperanza does not tell Martín about her relations with Quique, instead pretending to be his sister. She also does not tell Martín that she is a boxer. Quique and Constanza begin their own relationship, unknown by most other characters. Martín breaks off his relationship with Esperanza when he sees her goodbye kiss with Quique, as he realizes that she was lying to him.\n\nAfter the breakup with Esperanza, Martín resumes his romance with Constanza and eventually proposes marriage to her, in order to improve his chances of winning custody of the three siblings. The judge, who thought that Esperanza was a bad influence on the children, gives the adoption to Constanza instead of Martín, forcing him to marry her. Their marriage proves difficult; Constanza is demanding and possessive, and despises the adopted siblings, who hate her as well. Martín finally breaks with Constanza when she pretends to be blind to keep him with her. The children's custody battle delays the divorce, as Martín wants to keep them.\n\nDue to the efforts of Martín's cousin Miguel, the unscrupulous lawyer \"Falucho\", and Constanza, Martin gradually loses his fortune, his business, and his house. He moves to the Conventillo and works as a taxi driver. Eventually, he recovers everything. A new character, Bárbara, temporarily joins the love triangle of Martín, Esperanza, and Constanza. Constanza gets pregnant by Quique and tries to pass off her son as Martín's, but fails. Martín finally marries Esperanza and has a family with her and the adopted children. Constanza moves in with Quique.\n\nThe program was directed by Daniel De Felippo and Rodolfo Antúnez, and produced by César Markus González. Most of the filming occurred at the headquarters of Pol-ka in the Colegiales neighborhood. The telenovela took several risks in the creative and production fields, which were mostly successful. The choice of Martín Quesada's background as a Formula 1 driver required an area with a large infrastructure to represent realistic races. For realism, plot scenes set outside Buenos Aires were actually filmed outside the city. There was significant press coverage during the location shooting in Germany, which took place during the 2006 FIFA World Cup. Facundo Arana and Natalia Oreiro played their characters in the Veltins-Arena stadium during the Argentina-Serbia and Montenegro match. The result of the matcha 6–0 Argentine victorybenefited the filming, and the episode received 31.5 rating points. Location shooting also occurred in the tourist ski resort Las Leñas in the Andes. A simulated aircraft crash that left the characters in a jungle was filmed at the Pereyra Iraola park and an Argentine Air Force park in Morón.\n\nTo make her performances as a female boxer look realistic, Oreiro trained regularly with the renowned boxer Marcela Acuña and her coach Ramón Chaparro. They taught Oreiro how to stand and move in the ring and how to make various types of strokes, and she underwent cardiovascular and weight training. Acuña commented that Oreiro mastered the basic techniques more quickly than most beginner boxers. For this training, Oreiro temporarily gave up her vegetarian diet. Another plot required the characters to fly a Piper Tomahawk airplane and make an emergency landing. This was risky filming, and Arana and Oreiro did not use stunt doubles for it. The scene, which was the first of its kind in a daily Argentine telenovela, required four professional pilots, five special effects experts, and two additional aircraft used for filming the main aircraft from the outside. Arana was advised by the pilot Alberto Di Giorgio.\n\nThe program's opening theme is Gilda's \"Corazón Valiente\" (), sung by Oreiro. It was produced by Toti Gimenez, widower and producer of the late Gilda. Oreiro is a fan of Gilda and chose this song as a homage to mark the 10th anniversary of her death. She considered including it in her next music CD, but did not record anything afterwards.\n\nThe program featured several guest stars, who appeared in secondary or support roles in several episodes. Some guest starssuch as the singers Chayanne, Ricky Martin and Julieta Venegasplayed themselves within the fiction of the program. Venegas' song \"Tu Nombre\" is used as a background song in romantic settings. Marcela Acuña appeared twice, playing herself in a match against Oreiro's character. The appearance of actress Leticia Brédice was nominated for the \"best cameo in fiction\" category at the Martín Fierro Awards; the prize was given to Nora Cárpena. Actress Reina Reech delayed other projects to take part in the program.\n\nThe program expanded the usual conventions of the genre by using several types of metafiction, referencing the actors themselves or the nature of the program. An example within the plot is \"Sos mi muqui\", a program within the program whose characters were based on the show's main characters. The actors' former characters are occasionally referenced in plots that place them in similar contexts than those of older fictions. Martín infiltrated a convent using a habit similar to the one Arana's character in \"Padre Coraje\" wore, and Esperanza wore clothes similar to those Oreiro's character in \"Muñeca Brava\" wore when they had to get into a slum.\n\nMany actors played minor characters as well as their main roles. Pablo Cedrón played a Paraguayan brother of his character Falucho; both characters were involved in a love triangle with Kimberly. Carlos Belloso was cast as Quique's lost sister, dressed as a woman. Natalia Oreiro, who speaks Russian fluently, took the role of a Russian princess. Facundo Arana played a criminal, a role unlike Martín. Those scenes did not use special effects; each character was filmed separately without the two characters sharing the screen. The hero of the telenovela marries the villain, contrary to the genre's usual convention in which such a wedding is interrupted or canceled at the last moment.\n\nThe program was first broadcast in January, a month of low television activity in Argentina because of the summer vacations. Nevertheless, it was highly successful. The competitor channel Telefe aired the teen comedy \"Alma Pirata\", which was rescheduled because of its low ratings, and replaced it with the second season of \"Casados con Hijos\". Both programs had similar ratings until the end of \"Casados con Hijos\" in August. With an average rating of 26.8 points, \"Sos mi vida\" ended as the most watched Argentine television fiction so far; it was displaced by the 2009, telenovela \"Valientes\", which received 27.3 rating points.\n\nThe program was awarded the best TV comedy at the 2006 ceremony of the Martín Fierro Awards, prevailing over \"Casados con hijos\" and \"¿Quién es el Jefe?\". Facundo Arana received the award for best lead actor in comedy, prevailing over Guillermo Francella, Humberto Tortonese, and Nicolás Vázquez. Natalia Oreiro won the award for the best lead actress in comedy, prevailing over Florencia Peña, Nancy Duplaá, Carmen Barbieri, and Andrea Bonelli. Alejandro Awada, Marcelo Mazzarello, and Carlos Belloso received nominations for supporting comedy actor awards, which was won by Belloso. Similarly, three of five nominations for supporting comedy actress went to Carla Peterson, Mónica Ayos and Claudia Fontán, but the award went to Érika Rivas of \"Casados con hijos\". The program was unsuccessfully nominated for best theme song and best guest appearance for Leticia Brédice.\n\nFacundo Arana and Natalia Oreiro were nominated again at the 2007 Martín Fierro Awards. These nominations proved controversial because the program only lasted for a week in 2007, and had no second season, and both actors took a recess from work after it. Neither of them received an award for those nominations. Oreiro won the newly created award for the best dressed actress of the night, which is not part of the official awards.\n\nAt the Clarín Awards ceremony in late 2006, the program was awarded for the best comedy, prevailing over \"Casados con hijos\" and \"Alma Pirata\". Elías Viñoles won the award for best actor, Ornella Fazio was nominated for best female actor; the award was given to María Abadi of \"Montecristo\". Unlike the Martín Fierro, the Clarín awards do not distinguish between lead and supporting actors. Belloso was awarded as best comedy actor; Oreiro was nominated and the award was given to Érika Rivas.\n\nThe \"Clarín\" newspaper attributes the success of the program to the actors' performances, the subplots, production initiatives, and the original treatment of stories. The work of the supporting cast was also praised, including Carla Peterson, Fabiana Garcia Lago, and Marcelo Mazzarello. The newspaper \"La Nación\" praised the show's mix of sitcom humor and telenovela drama, and equated the dramatic episodes to the works of renowned telenovela authors Abel Santa Cruz, Alberto Migré, and Delia Fiallo.\n\nThe program was criticized for the length of timenearly three monthsbefore the lead couple's first kiss. Clarín also criticized a badly-performed striptease act by Facundo Arana. As Carlos Belloso could not go with Arana and Oreiro to the filming at the World Cup, he was filmed in the Plaza San Martín, pretending that he was in Germany as well.\n\nThe program's scheduled broadcast time was 21:00, but the channel often delayed its broadcast by up to 40 minutes. This led to conflicts with other channels and COMFER, the institution that regulates Argentine television. The last episode lasted for half an hour and was followed by the premiere of the new telenovela \"Son de Fierro\"; La Nación said that the final episode should have lasted a full hour.\n\nThe program was initially aired in Argentina in 2006 on El Trece at prime time. Following the success of the initial run, El Trece and \"Volver\" reran the show. It is sold internationally by the Dori Media Group under the English name \"You Are The One\" to more than 40 countries.\n\nThe concept of the program was sold as well, and some countries remade the telenovela with local actors. The Mexican version, \"Un gancho al corazón\", starred Danna Garcia, Sebastián Rulli, Laisha Wilkins, and Raul Araiza. The characters were renamed, but Garcia's character retained the sobriquet \"La Monita\". The Polish version, \"Prosto w serce\", starred Anna Mucha, Filip Bobek, and Małgorzata Socha. The Portuguese version, \"Deixa-me amar\", starred Paulo Pires and Paula Lobo Antunes.\n\n"}
