{"id": "47267044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47267044", "title": "A Coffin in Egypt", "text": "A Coffin in Egypt\n\nA Coffin in Egypt is a chamber opera in one act by composer Ricky Ian Gordon. The work uses an English language libretto by Leonard Foglia which is based on a 1980 play by Horton Foote. Set in Egypt, Texas, the work tells the story of Myrtle Bledsoe, an embittered 90-year-old woman who sifts through the memories of her past in a quest for self-forgiveness. The opera had its world premiere at the Houston Grand Opera (HGO) in March 2014.\n\n\"A Coffin in Egypt\" was jointly commissioned by the HGO, Opera Philadelphia, and the Wallis Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts. The work was specifically written as a starring vehicle for mezzo-soprano Frederica von Stade. While the work includes a cast of nine, it is essentially a monodrama in that the heroine is the only role with a substantial amount of singing. The other parts are spoken rather than sung lines apart from a few moments when a gospel quartet is used to \"underscore key moments, rather in the manner of a Greek chorus\". Von Stade reprised the role of Myrtle for performances in Philadelphia in June 2014 and with the Chicago Opera Theater in April 2015. The work was performed by von Stade in February 2016 in the Appel Room at Jazz at Lincoln Center in New York City.\n\n, Chicago Opera Theater\n"}
{"id": "28513179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28513179", "title": "Aesthetic Journalism", "text": "Aesthetic Journalism\n\nAesthetic Journalism: How to Inform Without Informing is a book by Italian writer, curator and artist Alfredo Cramerotti. Recognising the \"blurring of margins between artistic and information practices\" as a main feature in contemporary culture, Cramerotti sets out the Who, What, Where, When and How, and Why of Aesthetic Journalism.\n\nCramerotti identifies this \"investigative approach\" in contemporary art and photography as the use of fieldwork, reportage, interviews, document analysis, graphic mapping and information distribution. He cites a number of artists who employ these strategies: Hans Haacke, Martha Rosler, Lukas Einsele, Laura Horelli, Renzo Martens, Alfredo Jaar, Renée Green, The Atlas Group/Walid Raad and Bruno Serralogue. For Cramerotti, Aesthetic Journalism implies the critical use of documentary techniques and journalistic methods where the medium itself undergoes questioning. He posits that aesthetics, understood as a \"process in which we open up our sensibility to the diversity of the forms of nature (and manmade environment)\" can open up the mechanisms of art and media to expose the limitations of photojournalism, documentation and the ethics of representation. In doing so, Aesthetic Journalism renders productive readings of reality, information, fact, fiction and objectivity.\n\nAlthough \"the process leading up to aesthetic journalism can be considered from both perspectives as art being absorbed by the generalist media, or as journalism becoming a (common) art form\", Cramerotti's text speculates on the mutual convergence of art and media into a new cross discipline of Aesthetic Journalism.\n\nThe concepts outlined in the book have been a key tool in the development of the Chamber of Public Secrets' curatorial approach for the 8th edition of Manifesta, the European Biennial of Contemporary Art: Manifesta 8 taking place in the region of Murcia, Spain.\n\n"}
{"id": "10682964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10682964", "title": "Andersonville, South Carolina", "text": "Andersonville, South Carolina\n\nAndersonville was a town in Anderson County, South Carolina, that was settled around 1800. It was named for Robert Anderson, who was a Revolutionary War veteran. Although it had been a thriving textile and trading community, it suffered from repeated floods and was bypassed by the railroad. The construction of Lake Hartwell displaced the remnants of the community. Today the nearest incorporated communities are Hartwell, Georgia, across the lake to the southwest, and Anderson, South Carolina, to the North.\n\nThe town of Andersonville was settled at the fork of the Seneca River and the Tugaloo River. In 1801, the South Carolina General Assembly established the town. The town was named for Robert Anderson, who was one of the commissioners that laid out the community.\n\nThe town grew as a trading and textile center. The Southern Clock Company and textile mills were built in the town. In 1840, a flood struck the community and destroyed the textile mills. The textile mills were rebuilt, but they were destroyed by another flood in 1852.\n\nThe railroads bypassed Andersonville. As rail traffic overtook the river traffic, the town lost its industry and many residents. The Andersonville post office was closed in 1893.\n\nThe area was largely flooded in the construction of Lake Hartwell. Most of those buried at the cemetery were moved to Andersonville Baptist Church on the eastern shore of the lake. Andersonville Island, which is a narrow island about two miles long, is all that remains of the community.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39623209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39623209", "title": "Ariyannur Umbrellas", "text": "Ariyannur Umbrellas\n\nAriyannur Umbrellas is a prehistoric Megalith burial site situated in Ariyannur in Kandanassery Panchayat of Thrissur District of Kerala. Archaeological Survey of India in 1951 declared it as a centrally protected monument. The site has six umbrella stones or mushroom stones, locally called \"Kudaikkallu\". Of them, four are intact and two are partially broken.\n"}
{"id": "46570930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46570930", "title": "Birutė Ciplijauskaitė", "text": "Birutė Ciplijauskaitė\n\nBirutė Ciplijauskaitė (11 April 1929 in Kaunas – 19 June 2017) was a Lithuanian literary scholar and translator. The daughter of physician and gynecologist, director of Klaipeda hospital, she attended Kaunas Conservatory and fled Lithuania during World War II. She graduated from the University of Tuebingen in 1956 and then the University of Montreal.\nCiplijauskaitė taught Spanish at the University of Wisconsin–Madison from 1960 until 2000, and was a professor from 1968. She received her PhD in Spanish and French from Bryn Mawr College in 1960. Ciplijauskaitė has been an adviser for \"Lituanus\".\n\n"}
{"id": "20502327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20502327", "title": "Choice architecture", "text": "Choice architecture\n\nChoice architecture is the design of different ways in which choices can be presented to consumers, and the impact of that presentation on consumer decision-making. For example, the number of choices presented, the manner in which attributes are described, and the presence of a \"default\" can all influence consumer choice. As a result, advocates of libertarian paternalism and asymmetric paternalism have endorsed the deliberate design of choice architecture to nudge consumers toward personally and socially desirable behaviors like saving for retirement, choosing healthier foods, or registering as an organ donor. These interventions are often justified by the fact that well-designed choice architectures can compensate for irrational decision-making biases to improve consumer welfare. These techniques have consequently become popular among policymakers, leading to the creation of the UK's Behavioural Insights Team and White House \"Nudge Unit\" for example. While many behavioral scientists stress that there is no neutral choice architecture and that consumers maintain autonomy and freedom of choice despite manipulations of choice architecture, critics of libertarian paternalism often argue that choice architectures designed to overcome irrational decision biases may impose costs on rational agents, for example by limiting choice or undermining respect for individual human agency and moral autonomy.\n\nThe choice architecture term was originally coined by Richard Thaler and Cass Sunstein in their 2008 book \"Nudge: Improving Decisions about Health, Wealth, and Happiness\". Thaler and Sunstein have endorsed thoughtful design of choice architecture as a means to improve consumer decision-making by minimizing biases and errors that arise as the result of bounded rationality. This approach is an example of \"libertarian paternalism\", a philosophy endorsed by Thaler and Sunstein that aims to \"nudge\" individuals toward choices that are in their best interest without limiting choice. Libertarian paternalism may also be described as soft paternalism.\n\nBehavioral scientists have grouped the elements of choice architecture in different ways. For example, Thaler, Sunstein, and John P. Balz have focused on the following \"tools\" of choice architecture: defaults, expecting error, understanding mappings (which involves exploring the different ways that information presentation affects option comparisons), giving feedback, structuring complex choices, and creating incentives. Another group of leading behavioral scientists has created a typology of choice architecture elements dividing them into those that structure the choice set and those that describe the choice. Examples of choice set structuring include: the number of alternatives, decision aids, defaults, and choice over time. Describing choice options include: partitioning options and attributes, and designing attributes.\n\nResearch from the field of behavioral economics has shown that individuals tend to be subject to predictable biases that may lead to decision errors. The following sections describe these biases and describe the ways that they can be minimized by changing decision context through choice architecture.\n\nClassical economics predicts that providing more options will generally improve consumer utility, or at least leave it unchanged. However, each additional choice demands additional time and consideration to evaluate, potentially outweighing the benefits of greater choice. Behavioral economists have shown that in some instances presenting consumers with many choices can lead to reduced motivation to make a choice and decreased satisfaction with choices once they are made. This phenomenon is often referred to as choice overload, Overchoice or the tyranny of choice. However, the importance of this effect appears to vary significantly across situations. Choice architects can reduce choice overload by either limiting alternatives or providing decision support tools.\n\nChoice architects may choose to limit choice options; however, limits to choice may lead to reductions of consumer welfare. This is because the greater the number of choices, the greater the likelihood that the choice set will include the optimal choice for any given consumer. As a result, the ideal number of alternatives will depend upon the cognitive effort required to evaluate each option and the heterogeneity of needs and preferences across consumers. There are examples of consumers faring worse with many options rather than fewer in social-security investments and Medicare drug plans\n\nAs consumption decisions increasingly move online, consumers are relying upon search engines and product recommendation systems to find and evaluate products and services. These types of search and decision aids both reduce the time and effort associated with information search, but also have the power to subtly shape decisions dependent upon what products are presented, the context of the presentation, and the way that they are ranked and ordered. For example, research on consumer goods like wine has shown that the expansion of online retailing has made it simpler for consumers to gather information on products and compare alternatives, making them more responsive to price and quality information.\n\nA large body of research has shown that, all things being equal, consumers are more likely to choose default options. A default is defined as a choice frame in which one selection is pre-selected so that individuals must take active steps to select another option. Defaults can take many forms ranging from the automatic enrollment of college students in university health insurance plans to forms which default to a specific option unless changed.\n\nSeveral mechanisms have been proposed to explain the influence of defaults. For example, individuals may interpret defaults as policymaker recommendations, cognitive biases related to loss aversion like the status quo bias or endowment effect might be at work, or consumers may fail to opt out of the default due to associated effort. It is important to note that these mechanisms are not mutually exclusive and their relative influence will likely differ across decision contexts.\n\nTypes of default include simple defaults where one choice is automatically selected for all consumers, forced choice in which a product or service is denied until the consumer makes a proactive selection, and sensory defaults in which the choice is pre-selected based upon other information that was gathered about specific consumers. Choices that are made repeatedly may also be affected by defaults, for instance persistent defaults may be continually reset regardless of past decisions, whereas reoccurring defaults \"remember\" past decisions for use as the default, and predictive defaults use algorithms to set defaults based upon other related behavior.\n\nOne of the most commonly cited studies on the power of defaults is the example of organ donation. One study found that donor registration rates were twice as high when potential donors had to opt out versus opt into donor registration. However, the influence of defaults has been demonstrated across a range of domains including investment and insurance\n\nChoices with outcomes that manifest in the future will be influenced by several biases. For example, individuals tend to be myopic, preferring positive outcomes in the present often at the expense of future outcomes. This may lead to behaviors like overeating or overspending in the short-term at the expense of longer term health and financial security outcomes. In addition, individual projections about the future tend to be inaccurate. When the future is uncertain they may overestimate the likelihood of salient or desirable outcomes, and are generally overly optimistic about the future, for example assuming that they will have more time and money in the future than they will in actuality.\n\nHowever research indicates that there are several ways to structure choice architecture to compensate for or reduce these biases. For example, researchers demonstrated improved decision-making by drawing attention to the future outcomes of decisions or by emphasizing second best options. In addition, limited time offers can be successful in reducing procrastination.\n\nThe ways in which options and attributes are grouped influence the choices that are made. Examples of such partitioning of options include the division of a household budget into categories (e.g. rent, food, utilities, transportation etc.), or categories of investments within a portfolio (e.g. real estate, stocks, bonds, etc.), while examples of partitioning attributes include the manner in which attributes are grouped together for example a label may group several related attributes together (e.g. convenient) or list them individually (e.g. short running time, little cleanup, low maintenance). The number and type of these categories is important because individuals have a tendency to allocate scarce resources equally across them. People tend to divide investments over the options listed in 401K plans they favor equal allocation of resources and costs across individuals (all else being equal), and are biased to assign equal probabilities to all events that could occur. As a result, aggregate consumption can be changed by the number and types of categorizations. For instance, car buyers can be nudged toward more responsible purchases by itemizing practical attributes (gas mileage, safety, warranty etc.) and aggregating less practical attributes (i.e. speed, radio, and design are grouped together as \"stylishness\").\n\nConsumers would optimally consider all of a product's attributes when deciding between options. However, due to cognitive constraints, consumers may face similar challenges in weighing many attributes to those of evaluating many choices. As a result, choice architects may choose to limit the number of attributes, weighing the cognitive effort required to consider multiple attributes against the value of improved information. This may present challenges if consumers care about different attributes, but online forms that allow consumers to sort by different attributes should minimize the cognitive effort to evaluate many options without losing choice.\n\nThe presentation of information about attributes can also reduce the cognitive effort associated with processing and reduce errors. This can generally be accomplished by increasing evaluability and comparability of attributes. One example is to convert commonly used metrics into those that consumers can be assumed to care about. For example, choice architects might translate non-linear metrics (including monthly credit payments or miles per gallon) into relevant linear metrics (in this case the payback period associated with a credit payment or the gallons per 100 miles). Choice architects can also influence decisions by adding evaluative labels (e.g. good versus bad or high versus low) to numerical metrics, explicitly calculating consequences(for instance translating energy consumption into greenhouse gas emissions), or by changing the scale of a metric (for instance listing monthly cost versus yearly cost).\n\nThe concept of choice architecture exists in a number of fields. See for example the work of B. J. Fogg on computers as persuasive technologies; the concept of permission marketing as described by Seth Godin; and as shaping operations in military science. Choice Architecture is also similar to the concept of \"heresthetics,\" or manipulation that changes outcomes without changing people's underlying preferences, described by political scientist William H. Riker. Choice architecture has been implemented in several public and private policy domains. Variants of the Save More Tomorrow Plan (conceived by Richard Thaler and Shlomo Benartzi), which has individuals commit in advance to allocate a portion of future salary increases to savings, have been adopted by companies to increase employee retirement savings.\n\nLev Virine and Michael Trumper applied choice architecture concept to project management. They proposed Choice Engineering as a choice architecture related framework for improving project decisions. Project managers make predictable, repeated mental mistakes which could lead to project failures. Choice Engineering is a creating of processes or environment in which project managers would be steered towards making better choices rather than mandating these choices. The examples of such processes would be using checklists and templates, introducing project audit rather than direct control, providing full disclosure of information for project team members, improving project management education, and other processes. Virine and Trumper argued that in many cases, especially for smaller projects, it would be more beneficial to use Choice Engineering rather than strict and complex project management processes.\n\nChoice architecture interventions may fail to produce their desired result for several reasons. First, individual differences may lead consumers to respond differently to information. For example, liberals and conservatives have been shown to respond differently to information about the environmental consequences of energy-related behaviors, while individual numeracy has also been linked to different responses to choice architectures. A second major challenge is assessing whether choice architectures are, in fact, improving decision-making. One way of assessing this is to evaluate consumer experiences after the choice has been made both in the short and long-term.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28696566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28696566", "title": "Citizen oversight", "text": "Citizen oversight\n\nCitizen oversight is the act of an assembly of citizens, a form of citizen participation, who review government activities. Activities may be deemed as government misconduct. Members of the group are civilians and are external to the government entity. These groups are tasked with direct involvement in the citizen complaints process and develop solutions to improve government accountability. Responsibilities of citizen oversight groups can vary significantly depending on the jurisdiction and their ability to become influential. Oversight should not criticize but improve government through citizen support for government responsiveness, accountability, transparency, and overall efficiency.\n\nProactive citizen oversight improves transparency and demands accountability at all levels of government. Reporting and monitoring (financial records, performance measures, and open records... etc.) are now regarded as fundamental governance responsibilities. Citizen Advisory Boards are a way for citizens to be involved in government oversight. Other forms of government oversight include citizen committees, citizen panels, citizen juries, citizen initiatives, negotiated rulemaking, and mediation Citizen oversight shares similar aspects with Demarchy and the Jury system.\n\nAn effective citizen oversight committee is structured to take on the following responsibilities: create processes for risk governance, monitoring and reporting; create clear defined duties to improve effectiveness and avoid overlapping work; recruit/retain members that are knowledgeable and engaged about policy; develop critiques that result in improved service outcomes; assign oversight responsibilities to designated individuals or groups for specific government functions; and reviews rolls regularly.\n\nCitizen oversight committees brainstorm ideas to improve transparency and create policy proposals. Most proposals regarding citizen oversight have been with respects to police activities, healthcare, non-profit and private sector. Proposals since the 1970s about police misconduct or government corruption have universally been met with resistance from authorities and did not gained much traction.\n\nCitizen oversight is the result of a profound change in public attitudes toward government particularly related to trust. There is a lack of trust between citizens and government/business because of historical misconduct. Misconduct included racial discrimination during the civil rights era, illegal activities during the Watergate scandal, and more recently citizen disagreement with government bailouts and financial fraud like Enron scandal. All these actions have caused an increased demand in accountability. Trust is a measured by gauging how effective citizens feel local policies and authorities are in their duties as official. A series of laws have been created indicating the growing public concern about the need for oversight of government agencies.\n\n\nBenefit\nIncreased focus on monitoring, reporting, strategic advising, value creation, accountability, and the creation of professional standards.\n\nWeakness or setbacks\nAccountability, transparency, and reporting are important to citizen oversight. Acts like Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act have caused an increase in oversight responsibilities requiring increased reporting, extensive examination of performance, and increased accountability of internal citizen oversight. Oversight can be excessive and ultimately detrimental to desirable outcomes, and administrators spend a significant amount of time on monitoring and less on strategies. Difficulty forming citizen groups, failing to function effectively, agency role is not visible enough or influential, group is abolished altogether.\n\nCitizen participation and accountability initiatives have become a common practice in democratic nations. Reporting and monitoring results are now regarded as fundamental governance responsibilities The growth of citizen oversight is not confined to the United States. Citizen oversight (particularly for the police) is universal and has expanded across the English-speaking world and is spreading in Latin America, Asia, and continental Europe \nInternational Asian countries do not look at service-oriented policing like western countries. Asian democracies focus on defense and maintenance of established rules, reviewing and monitoring government actions and policing human rights violations, police corruption,and corporate management. Research in the United Kingdom has noted the importance of oversight of state functions such as prisons to ensure the fair and humane detention of vulnerable persons such as prisoners.\n\nHong Kong's citizen oversight is considered to be far more transparent, independent, sufficient at holding government accountable. Possibly a result of being largely more democratic, than countries like China. Nearly, all Asian democracies have some form of oversight, but only 3 have citizen oversight.\n\nThe assembly of citizens to review government activities and misconduct first started with civilian oversight of police in the 1920s. The table below is predominantly related to police oversight between 1920 and 1980. By 1980 there were about 13 agencies, and by 2000 more than 100 such as the Independent Police Auditor (IPA) in San Jose, California and Seattle, Washington and the Office of Independent Review (OIR) in New York City, New York.\n\n"}
{"id": "52687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52687", "title": "Classical architecture", "text": "Classical architecture\n\nClassical architecture usually denotes architecture which is more or less consciously derived from the principles of Greek and Roman architecture of classical antiquity, or sometimes even more specifically, from the works of Vitruvius. Different styles of classical architecture have arguably existed since the Carolingian Renaissance, and prominently since the Italian Renaissance. Although classical styles of architecture can vary greatly, they can in general all be said to draw on a common \"vocabulary\" of decorative and constructive elements. In much of the Western world, different classical architectural styles have dominated the history of architecture from the Renaissance until the second world war, though it continues to inform many architects to this day.\n\nThe term \"classical architecture\" also applies to any mode of architecture that has evolved to a highly refined state, such as classical Chinese architecture, or classical Mayan architecture. It can also refer to any architecture that employs classical aesthetic philosophy. The term might be used differently from \"traditional\" or \"vernacular architecture\", although it can share underlying axioms with it.\n\nFor contemporary buildings following authentic classical principles, the term New Classical Architecture may be used.\n\nClassical architecture is derived from the architecture of ancient Greece and ancient Rome. With the collapse of the western part of the Roman empire, the architectural traditions of the Roman empire ceased to be practised in large parts of western Europe. In the Byzantine Empire, the ancient ways of building lived on but relatively soon developed into a distinct Byzantine style. The first conscious efforts to bring back the disused language of form of classical antiquity into Western architecture can be traced to the Carolingian Renaissance of the late 8th and 9th centuries. The gatehouse of Lorsch Abbey (c. 800), in present-day Germany thus displays a system of alternating attached columns and arches which could be an almost direct paraphrase of e.g., that of the Colosseum in Rome. Byzantine architecture, just as Romanesque and even to some extent Gothic architecture (with which classical architecture is often posed), can also incorporate classical elements and details but do not to the same degree reflect a conscious effort to draw upon the architectural traditions of antiquity; for example, they do not observe the idea of a systematic order of proportions for pillars. In general, therefore, they are not considered classical archerchitectural styles in a strict sense.\n\nDuring the Italian renaissance and with the demise of Gothic style, major efforts were made by architects such as Leon Battista Alberti, Sebastiano Serlio and Giacomo Barozzi da Vignola to revive the language of architecture of first and foremost ancient Rome. This was done in part through the study of the ancient Roman architectural treatise \"De architectura\" by Vitruvius, and to some extent by studying the actual remains of ancient Roman buildings in Italy. Nonetheless, the classical architecture of the Renaissance from the outset represents a highly specific interpretation of the classical ideas. In a building like the \"Ospedale degli Innocenti\" in Florence by Filippo Brunelleschi, one of the very earliest Renaissance buildings (built 1419–45), the treatment of the columns for example has no direct antecedent in ancient Roman architecture. During this time period, the study of ancient architecture developed into the architectural theory of classical architecture; somewhat over-simplified, one could say that classical architecture in its variety of forms ever since have been interpretations and elaborations of the architectural rules set down during antiquity.\n\nMost of the styles originating in post-renaissance Europe can be described as classical architecture. This broad use of the term is employed by Sir John Summerson in \"The Classical Language of Architecture\". The elements of classical architecture have been applied in radically different architectural contexts than those for which they were developed, however. For example, Baroque or Rococo architecture are styles which, although classical at root, display an architectural language very much in their own right. During these periods, architectural theory still referred to classical ideas but rather less sincerely than during the Renaissance.\n\nAs a reaction to late baroque and rococo forms, architectural theorists from circa 1750 through what became known as Neoclassicism again consciously and earnestly attempted to emulate antiquity, supported by recent developments in Classical archaeology and a desire for an architecture based on clear rules and rationality. Claude Perrault, Marc-Antoine Laugier and Carlo Lodoli were among the first theorists of neoclassicism, while Étienne-Louis Boullée, Claude Nicolas Ledoux, Friedrich Gilly and John Soane were among the more radical and influential. Neoclassical architecture held a particularly strong position on the architectural scene c. 1750–1850. The competing neo-Gothic style however rose to popularity during the early 1800s, and the later part the 19th century was characterised by a variety of styles, some of them only slightly or not at all related to classicism (such as Art Nouveau), and eclecticism. Although classical architecture continued to play an important role and for periods of time at least locally dominated the architectural scene, as exemplified by the \"Nordic Classicism\" during the 1920s, classical architecture in its stricter form never regained its former dominance. With the advent of Modernism during the early 20th century, classical architecture arguably almost completely ceased to be practised.\n\nAs noted above, classical styles of architecture dominated Western architecture for a very long time, roughly from the Renaissance until the advent of Modernism. That is to say, that classical antiquity at least in theory was considered the prime source of inspiration for architectural endeavours in the West for much of Modern history. Even so, because of liberal, personal or theoretically diverse interpretations of the antique heritage, classicism covers a broad range of styles, some even so to speak cross-referencing, like Neo-Palladian architecture, which draws its inspiration from the works of Italian Renaissance architect Andrea Palladio — who himself drew inspiration from ancient Roman architecture. Furthermore, it can even be argued (as noted above) that styles of architecture not typically considered classical, like Gothic, can be said to contain classical elements. Therefore, a simple delineation of the scope of classical architecture is difficult to make. The more or less defining characteristic can still be said to be a reference to ancient Greek or Roman architecture, and the architectural rules or theories that derived from that architecture.\n\nIn the grammar of architecture, the word \"petrification\" is often used when discussing the development of sacred structures, such as temples, mainly with reference to developments in the Greek world. During the Archaic and early Classical periods (about the 6th and early 5th centuries BC), the architectural forms of the earliest temples had solidified and the Doric emerged as the predominant element. A widely accepted theory in classical studies is that the earliest temple structures were of wood and the great forms, or elements of architectural style, were codified and rather permanent by the time we see the Archaic emergent and established. It was during this period, at different times and places in the Greek world, that the use of dressed and polished stone replaced the wood in these early temples, but the forms and shapes of the old wooden styles were retained, just as if the wooden structures had turned to stone, thus the designation \"petrification\" or sometimes \"petrified carpentry\" for this process.\n\nThis careful preservation of the primitive wooden appearance in the stone fabric of the newer buildings was scrupulously observed and this suggests that it may have been dictated by religion rather than aesthetics, although the exact reasons are now lost in the mists of antiquity. And not everyone within the great reach of Mediterranean civilization made this transition. The Etruscans in Italy were, from their earliest period, greatly influenced by their contact with Greek culture and religion, but they retained their wooden temples (with some exceptions) until their culture was completely absorbed into the Roman world, with the great wooden Temple of Jupiter on the Capitol in Rome itself being a good example. Nor was it the lack of knowledge of stone working on their part that prevented them from making the transition from timber to dressed stone.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2332430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2332430", "title": "Coattail effect", "text": "Coattail effect\n\nThe coattail effect or down-ballot effect is the tendency for a popular political party leader to attract votes for other candidates of the same party in an election. For example, in the United States, the party of a victorious presidential candidate will often win many seats in Congress as well; these Members of Congress are voted into office “on the coattails” of the president.\n\nThis theory is prevalent at all levels of government. A popular statewide candidate for governor or senator can attract support for down ballot races of their party as well.\n\nThis is prevalent in the United Kingdom and Canada especially in a general election. People have a tendency to vote on the basis of a political party instead of the MP for their area.\n\nThis also refers to the phenomenon that members of the U.S. Senate or House of Representatives are more likely to be voted for on a year of the presidential election than a midterm.\n\nThe \"coattail effect\" is not usually caused by a popular candidate convincing swing voters to cast their ballots for their party, although this is not unheard of. Rather, the effect often stems from popular candidates driving voter turnout among their own party base, people who are likely to vote for downballot party candidates anyway.\n\nThe \"coattail effect\" has also been used to derogatorily describe the effect of Group Representation Constituencies (GRCs) in Singapore, where candidates for Parliament run on a party slate of 3 to 6 candidates. This allows weak candidates to get elected \"riding on the coattails\" of strong candidates on their slate.\n\nRiding the coattails is a metaphor that refers to one who achieves some level of success or notability primarily through association with someone else. This can often be used as a generic phrase for anyone that hangs onto another person as they forge ahead, without effort from the hanger-on.\n\nPresidential coattails is the ability of a presidential candidate to bring out supporters who then vote for his party's candidates for other offices. In effect, the other candidates are said to ride on his coattails. Before the introduction of the secret ballot in the late 19th century, voters cast their ballots by taking a ticket provided by a party worker and putting it in the ballot box. The party-column ballot listed all candidates of the party in a single column and allowed the voter to mark off the party box at the top, which encouraged straight-party voting and the coattails effect. Straight-party voting was the norm, and winners in presidential elections often had long coattails. They almost always began their term with majorities in the House and Senate.\n\nIn modern times voting machines have replaced the party-column ballot with the office-column ballot: candidates are grouped by office rather than party. Often there is no way to cast a party-line vote, and each office must be voted on separately. The proportion of voters choosing House and presidential candidates of different parties increased from 13 percent in 1952 to more than 40 percent in the elections of 1972, 1980, and 1988. Consequently, Presidential coattails have been virtually eliminated in most elections, and a number of Presidents—including Richard Nixon, Ronald Reagan, and George H. W. Bush—have begun their terms with one or both chambers of Congress controlled by the opposition party.\n\nPresidents may suffer from a \"reverse coattail\" effect, in which their party's candidates for the House or Senate get more votes than the president's themselves. In 1976, for example, Jimmy Carter won the White House with 40,420,420 votes, but Democratic candidates for the House that year received 41,749,411 votes. In 1992 almost all Democrats elected to Congress won more votes in their congressional districts than the party's presidential candidate, Bill Clinton; this may have had to do with the presence of a strong third-party presidential candidate, Ross Perot.\n\nThere is also the \"negative coattail\" effect, in which a controversial presidential candidate may hurt candidates on the party's ticket running for lower offices. Barry Goldwater's poor showing in the presidential election of 1964 led to the defeat of dozens of Republicans in the House of Representatives, leaving President Lyndon Johnson a large Democratic majority to pass his agenda. The negative coattail effect is also common in midterm elections - when a President associated with unpopular policies is not up for re-election, the electorate will often respond by punishing Congressional candidates from the President's own party. The Presidential elections of 1948 and 1952 are the most recent elections in which the same party both won the White House and took control of the House from their opponents. Since 1952, control of the House has changed hands four times, all of which were in midterm elections (1954, 1994, 2006 and 2010) and all of which were at the expense of the incumbent President's party. \n\nSince the end of World War II, there have been a total of five American presidential elections which had coattail effects: Harry Truman in 1948, Dwight Eisenhower in 1952, Lyndon Johnson in 1964, Ronald Reagan in 1980, and Barack Obama in 2008.\n\nSingapore introduced the GRC system in 1969, where candidates for Parliament run and are elected on a slate of 3 to 6 candidates in some constituencies, with a minimum of one minority candidate on each slate. The purported aim was to ensure minority representation in Parliament. However, it resulted in a \"coattail effect\" where unpopular and even unknown candidates are elected because they ran together with popular candidates (usually Ministers) on the same slate.\n\nDespite the official reason cited, it was later stated by former Prime Minister Goh Chok Tong that it was used to recruit able people to join politics, particularly since the GRC system reduced the losses of the ruling party. In Singapore, the ruling People's Action Party maintains almost total dominance in Parliament with the GRC system. As of 2009, there were only 6 fully elected Opposition MPs in the 69-seat Parliament.\n\n"}
{"id": "47611637", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47611637", "title": "Cretto di Burri", "text": "Cretto di Burri\n\nThe Cretto di Burri (crack of Burri) or Cretto di Gibellina (crack of Gibellina), also known as \"The Great Cretto\", is a landscape artwork which undertaken by Alberto Burri in 1984 and was left in an unfinished state in 1989 (due to lack of funds), based on the old city of Gibellina. The original city of Gibellina was completely destroyed in the 1968 Belice earthquake. Gibellina has since been rebuilt, about 20 km from the city's original location. In 2015 to mark what would have been Burri's one hundredth birthday the work was completed at last.\n\nThe work is the subject of a short documentary by the Dutch filmmaker Petra Noordkamp which was created as commissioned by the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum to be screened at the Alberto Burri retrospective held at the institution from October 9, 2015 until January 6, 2016.\n"}
{"id": "102728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102728", "title": "David Farragut", "text": "David Farragut\n\nDavid Glasgow Farragut (also spelled Glascoe; July 5, 1801 – August 14, 1870) was a flag officer of the United States Navy during the American Civil War. He was the first rear admiral, vice admiral, and admiral in the United States Navy. He is remembered for his order at the Battle of Mobile Bay usually paraphrased as \"Damn the torpedoes, full speed ahead\" in U.S. Navy tradition.\n\nBorn near Knoxville, Tennessee, Farragut was fostered by naval officer David Porter after the death of his mother. Despite his young age, Farragut served in the War of 1812 under the command of his adoptive father. He received his first command in 1824 and participated in anti-piracy operations in the Caribbean Sea. He served in the Mexican–American War under the command of Matthew C. Perry, participating in the blockade of Tuxpan. After the war, he oversaw the construction of the Mare Island Naval Shipyard, the first U.S. Navy base established on the Pacific Ocean.\n\nThough Farragut resided in Norfolk, Virginia prior to the Civil War, he was a Southern Unionist who strongly opposed Southern secession and remained loyal to the Union after the outbreak of the Civil War. Despite some doubts about Farragut's loyalty, Farragut was assigned command of an attack on the important Confederate port city of New Orleans. After fighting past Fort St. Philip and Fort Jackson, Farragut captured New Orleans in April 1862. He was promoted to rear admiral after the battle and helped extend Union control up along the Mississippi River, participating in the Siege of Port Hudson. With the Union in control of the Mississippi, Farragut led a successful attack on Mobile Bay, home to the last major Confederate port on the Gulf of Mexico. Farragut was promoted to Admiral following the end of the Civil War and remained on active duty until his death in 1870.\n\nFarragut was born in 1801 to Jordi (George) Farragut, a native of Menorca, Spain, and his wife Elizabeth (née Shine, 1765–1808), of North Carolina Scotch-Irish American descent, at Lowe's Ferry on the Holston River in Tennessee. It was a few miles southeast of Campbell's Station, near Knoxville.\n\nHis father operated the ferry and served as a cavalry officer in the Tennessee militia. Jordi Farragut, son of Antoni Farragut and Joana Mesquida, became a Spanish merchant captain from Menorca. He joined the American Revolutionary cause after arriving in America in 1766, when he changed his first name to George. George was a naval lieutenant during the Revolutionary War, serving first with the South Carolina Navy then the Continental Naval forces. George and Elizabeth had moved west to Tennessee after his service in the American Revolution.\n\nIn 1805, George Farragut accepted a position at the U.S. port of New Orleans. He traveled there first and his family followed, in a flatboat adventure aided by hired rivermen, the then four-year-old Farragut's first voyage. The family was still living in New Orleans when Elizabeth died of yellow fever. His father made plans to place the young children with friends and family who could better care for them.\n\nDavid's birth name was James. In 1808, after his mother's death, he agreed to live with David Porter, a naval officer whose father had been friends with James's father, as Porter's foster son. In 1812, James adopted the name \"David\" in honor of his foster father, with whom he went to sea late in 1810. David Farragut grew up in a naval family, as the foster brother of future Civil War admiral, David Dixon Porter, and Commodore William D. Porter.\n\nDavid Farragut's naval career began as a midshipman when he was nine years old, and continued for 60 years until his death at the age of 69. This included service in several wars, most notably during the American Civil War, where he gained fame for winning several decisive naval battles.\n\nThrough the influence of his foster father, Farragut was commissioned a midshipman in the United States Navy on December 17, 1810, at the age of seven. A prize master by the age of 12, Farragut fought in the War of 1812, serving under Captain Porter, his foster father. While serving aboard , Farragut participated in the capture of HMS \"Alert\" on August 13, 1812, then helped to establish America's first naval base and colony in the Pacific, named Fort Madison, during the ill-fated Nuku Hiva Campaign in the Marquesas Islands. At the same time, the Americans battled the hostile tribes on the islands with the help of their Te I'i allies.\n\nFarragut was 12 years old when, during the War of 1812, he was given the assignment to bring a ship captured by the \"Essex\" safely to port. He was wounded and captured while serving on the \"Essex\" during the engagement at Valparaíso Bay, Chile, against the British on March 28, 1814.\n\nFarragut was promoted to lieutenant in 1822, during the operations against West Indian pirates. In 1824, he was placed in command of , which was his first command of a U.S. naval vessel. He served in the Mosquito Fleet, a fleet of ships fitted out to fight pirates in the Caribbean Sea. After learning his old captain, Commodore Porter, would be commander of the fleet, he asked for, and received, orders to serve aboard \"Greyhound\", one of the smaller vessels, commanded by John Porter, brother of David Porter. On February 14, 1823, the fleet set sail for the West Indies where, for the next six months, they would drive the pirates off the sea, and rout them from their hiding places in among the islands. He was executive officer aboard the \"Experiment\" during its campaign in the West Indies fighting pirates.\n\nIn 1847, Farragut, now a commander, took command of the sloop-of-war when she was recommissioned at Norfolk Navy Yard in Norfolk, Virginia. Assigned to the Home Squadron for service in the Mexican–American War, \"Saratoga\" departed Norfolk on March 29, 1847 bound for the Gulf of Mexico under Farragut's command and upon arriving off Veracruz, Mexico, on April 26, 1847 reported to the squadron's commander, Commodore Matthew C. Perry, for duty. On April 29, Perry ordered Farragut to sail \"Saratoga\" 150 nautical miles (173 miles; 278 km) to the north to blockade Tuxpan, where she operated from April 30 to July 12 before Farragut returned to Veracruz. About two weeks later, Farragut began a round-trip voyage to carry dispatches to Tabasco, returning to Veracruz on August 11, 1847. On September 1, 1847, Farragut and \"Saratoga\" returned to blockade duty off Tuxpan, remaining there for two months despite a yellow fever outbreak on board. Farragut then brought the ship back to Veracruz and, after a month there, got underway for the Pensacola Navy Yard in Pensacola, Florida, where \"Saratoga\" arrived on January 6, 1848, disembarked all of her seriously sick patients at the base hospital, and replenished her stores. On January 31, 1848, Farragut took the ship out of Pensacola bound for New York City, arriving there on February 19. \"Saratoga\" was decommissioned there on February 26, 1848.\n\nIn 1853, Secretary of the Navy James C. Dobbin selected Commander David G. Farragut to create Mare Island Navy Yard near San Francisco in San Pablo Bay. In August 1854, Farragut was called to Washington from his post as assistant inspector of ordnance at Norfolk, Virginia. President Franklin Pierce congratulated Farragut on his naval career and the task he was to undertake. On September 16, 1854, Commander Farragut arrived to oversee the building of the Mare Island Navy Yard at Vallejo, California, which became the port for ship repairs on the West Coast. Captain Farragut commissioned Mare Island on July 16, 1858. Farragut returned to a hero's welcome at Mare Island on August 11, 1869.\n\nThough living in Norfolk, Virginia prior to the American Civil War, Farragut made it clear to all who knew him that he regarded secession as treason. Just before the war's outbreak, Farragut moved with his Virginian-born wife to Hastings-on-Hudson, a small town just outside New York City.\n\nHe offered his services to the Union, and was initially given a seat on the Naval Retirement Board. Offered a command by his foster brother, David Dixon Porter, for a special assignment, he hesitated upon learning the target might be Norfolk. As he had friends and relatives living there, he was relieved to learn the target was changed to his former childhood home of New Orleans. The navy had some doubts about Farragut's loyalty to the Union because of his Southern birth as well as that of his wife. Porter argued on his behalf, and Farragut was accepted for the major role of attacking New Orleans.\n\nFarragut was appointed under secret instructions on February 3, 1862, to command the Gulf Blockading Squadron, sailing from Hampton Roads on the screw steamer , bearing 25 guns, which he made his flagship, accompanied by a fleet of 17 ships. He reached the mouth of the Mississippi River, near Confederate forts St. Philip and Jackson, situated opposite one another along the banks of the river, with a combined armament of more than 100 heavy guns and a complement of 700 men. Now aware of Farragut's approach, the Confederates had amassed a fleet of 16 gunboats just outside New Orleans.\n\nOn April 18, Farragut ordered the mortar boats, under the command of Porter, to commence bombardment on the two forts, inflicting considerable damage, but not enough to compel the Confederates to surrender. After two days of heavy bombardment, Farragut ran past forts Jackson and St. Philip and the Chalmette batteries to take the city and port of New Orleans on April 29, a decisive event in the war.\n\nCongress honored him by creating the rank of rear admiral on July 16, 1862, a rank never before used in the U.S. Navy. Before this time, the American Navy had resisted the rank of admiral, preferring the term \"flag officer\", to distinguish the rank from the traditions of the European navies.\n\nLater that year, Farragut passed the batteries defending Vicksburg, Mississippi, but had no success there. A makeshift Confederate ironclad forced his flotilla of 38 ships to withdraw in July 1862.\n\nWhile an aggressive commander, Farragut was not always cooperative. At the Siege of Port Hudson, the plan was that Farragut's flotilla would pass by the guns of the Confederate stronghold with the help of a diversionary land attack by the Army of the Gulf, commanded by General Nathaniel Banks, to commence at 8:00 a.m. on March 15, 1863. Farragut unilaterally decided to move the timetable up to 9:00 p.m. on March 14, and initiated his run past the guns before Union ground forces were in position. The consequently uncoordinated attack allowed the Confederates to concentrate on Farragut's flotilla and inflict heavy damage to his warships.\nFarragut's battle group was forced to retreat with only two ships able to pass the heavy cannon of the Confederate bastion. After surviving the gauntlet, Farragut played no further part in the battle for Port Hudson, and General Banks was left to continue the siege without the advantage of naval support. The Union Army made two major attacks on the fort; both were repulsed with heavy losses. Farragut's flotilla was splintered, yet was able to blockade the mouth of the Red River with the two remaining warships; he could not efficiently patrol the section of the Mississippi between Port Hudson and Vicksburg. Farragut's decision proved costly to the Union Navy and the Union Army, which suffered its highest casualty rate of the war at Port Hudson.\n\nVicksburg surrendered on July 4, 1863, leaving Port Hudson as the last remaining Confederate stronghold on the Mississippi River. General Banks accepted the surrender of the Confederate garrison at Port Hudson on July 9, ending the longest siege in U.S. military history. Control of the Mississippi River was the centerpiece of the Union strategy to win the war, and, with the surrender of Port Hudson, the Confederacy was now cut in two.\n\nOn August 5, 1864, Farragut won a great victory in the Battle of Mobile Bay. Mobile, Alabama, was then the Confederacy's last major open port on the Gulf of Mexico. The bay was heavily mined (tethered naval mines were then known as \"torpedoes\"). Farragut ordered his fleet to charge the bay. When the monitor struck a mine and sank, the others began to pull back.\nFrom his high perch, where he was lashed to the rigging of his flagship, USS \"Hartford\", Farragut could see the ships pulling back. \"What's the trouble?\" he shouted through a trumpet to . \"Torpedoes\", was the shouted reply. \"Damn the torpedoes.\", said Farragut, \"Four bells, Captain Drayton, go ahead. Jouett, full speed.\" The bulk of the fleet succeeded in entering the bay. Farragut triumphed over the opposition of heavy batteries in Fort Morgan and Fort Gaines to defeat the squadron of Admiral Franklin Buchanan.\n\nOn December 21, 1864, Lincoln promoted Farragut to vice admiral.\n\nAfter the Civil War, Farragut was elected a companion of the first class of the New York Commandery of the Military Order of the Loyal Legion of the United States on March 18, 1866 and assigned insignia number 231. He served as the commander of the Commandery of New York from May 1866 to until his death.\n\nFarragut was promoted to full admiral on July 25, 1866, becoming the first U.S. Naval officer to hold that rank.\n\nHis last active service was in command of the European Squadron, from 1867 to 1868, with the screw frigate as his flagship. Farragut remained on active duty for life, an honor accorded to only seven other U.S. Naval officers after the Civil War.\n\nAdmiral Farragut died from a heart attack at the age of 69 in Portsmouth, New Hampshire, while on vacation in the late summer of 1870. He had served almost sixty years in the navy. He is interred at Woodlawn Cemetery, in The Bronx, New York City. His gravesite is listed on the National Register of Historic Places, as is Woodlawn Cemetery itself.\n\nAfter appointment and an initial cruise as acting lieutenant commanding , Farragut married Susan Caroline Marchant on September 2, 1824. After years of ill-health, Susan Farragut died on December 27, 1840. Farragut was noted for his kindly treatment of his wife during her illness.\n\nAfter the death of his first wife, Farragut married Virginia Dorcas Loyall, on December 26, 1843, with whom he had one surviving son, named Loyall Farragut, born October 12, 1844. Loyall Farragut graduated from West Point in 1868, and served as a second lieutenant in the U.S. Army before resigning in 1872. He spent most of the remainder of his career as an executive with the Central Railroad Company of New Jersey. Loyall died on October 1, 1916, as noted on one side of the family monument which he and his mother erected to the memory of his father in Woodlawn Cemetery.\n\nDavid Farragut was initiated to the Scottish Rite Masonry.\n\n\nThe area formerly known as Campbell's Station, Tennessee, only a few miles from Admiral Farragut's birthplace, was renamed as the town of Farragut in his honor.\n\nFarragut Square in Washington, D.C. is named in his honor. A statue of him, named \"Admiral David G. Farragut\", is in the center of Farragut Square. Two Washington Metro stations, Farragut West and Farragut North, also share his name. There is a statue of Admiral Farragut at the South Boston Marine Park adjacent to Castle Island, and an outdoor sculpture of him in Madison Square Park, Manhattan.\n\nFarragut Naval Training Station, located in Northern Idaho on Lake Pend Oreille, was a WWII naval training center, the second largest in the world at the time with over 293,000 sailors receiving basic training there. In 1966, the state of Idaho turned the land into Farragut State Park.\n\nTwo separate classes of U.S. Navy destroyers have been named for Farragut: the \"Farragut\" class of 1934 and the \"Farragut\" class of 1958. Several individual U.S. Navy ships also have been named in his honor.\n\nAdmiral Farragut Academy, named after Admiral David G. Farragut, was founded in 1933 as an all-boys military boarding high school. Today, the Academy is a college-prep, private school which serves students in PreK-12th grade and is located in St. Petersburg, Florida. The Upper School, which starts in 8th grade, is also known worldwide for its Boarding program and Naval JROTC military structure. Farragut also offers other signature academic programs: Aviation, Scuba, Marine Science, Engineering, Sailing, and more.\n\nFew naval officers in American history have been honored on a U.S. postage stamp, but David Farragut has been so honored more than once. The first postage stamp (at left) to honor Farragut was the 1-dollar black issue of 1903. The Navy Issue of 1937 includes (among five in a series) a 3-cent purple stamp which depicts Admirals David Farragut (left) and David Porter, with a warship under sail displayed at center. The most recent postage issue honoring Farragut was released from Gettysburg, Pennsylvania on June 29, 1995.\n\nNumerous places and things are named in remembrance of Admiral Farragut:\nMonuments\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5498756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5498756", "title": "David Riazanov", "text": "David Riazanov\n\nDavid Riazanov (), born David Borisovich Goldendakh (; 10 March 1870 – 21 January 1938), was a political revolutionary, Marxist theoretician, and archivist. Riazanov is best remembered as the founder of the Marx-Engels Institute and editor of the first large-scale effort to publish the collected works of these two founders of the modern socialist movement. Riazanov is also remembered as a prominent victim of the Great Terror of the late 1930s.\n\nDavid Borisovich Goldendakh was born 10 March 1870 to a Jewish father and a Russian mother in Odessa, Ukraine, then part of the Russian empire. At the age of 15, the future David Riazanov joined the ranks of the Narodnik revolutionaries attempting to overthrow the autocracy of the Russian Tsar. Riazanov attended secondary school in Odessa but was expelled in 1886, not for revolutionary activity or insubordination, but rather due to \"hopeless inability.\"\n\nRiazanov traveled abroad in 1889 and 1891 where he met various Russian Marxists who were building their revolutionary organizations there. Following his second trip, Riazanov was arrested in October 1891 at the Austrian-Russian border by the Okhrana, the tsarist secret police, who had long suspected his revolutionary activity. Riazanov spent 15 months in prison awaiting trial, at which he was convicted and sentenced to an additional four years of \"katorga\" (exile and hard labor). Following completion of his term, Riazanov was subject to 3 years of administrative exile under police supervision in the city of Kishinev, Bessarabia (today part of Moldova).\n\nIn 1900, Riazanov went into exile. The next year in Berlin Riazanov and his co-thinkers established a small Marxist group called \"Borba\" (Struggle), which attempted to unite the émigré Russian Marxists. Riazanov's group was excluded from the 2nd Congress of the Russian Social Democratic Labor Party that was held in London and Brussels in the summer of 1903. With the party divided between Bolshevik and Menshevik wings in the aftermath of this landmark convention, Riazanov and his co-thinkers pointedly declined to join either faction. \n\nIn 1903, Riazanov became the first writer to introduce the concept of permanent revolution to the political literature of Russian Marxism when he published three studies in Geneva under the title \"Materials on the Program of the Workers' Party.\" Riazanov argued, in opposition to the views of G.V. Plekhanov, that the rise of capitalism in Russia represented a fundamental departure from the pattern seen elsewhere in Europe. The large size and centralization of Russian industrial firms suggested to Riazanov a relative weakness of Russian middle-classes and a significant possibility that there would be forces of the Russian Marxist movement which would lead the revolution against Tsarist autocracy and thenceforth immediately towards socialism.\n\nRiazanov returned to Russia shortly after the start of the 1905 Russian Revolution, going to work in the trade union movement in the capital city of St. Petersburg. The uprising ended in failure by the revolutionaries, however, and Riazanov was arrested and sentenced to deportation once again in 1907.\n\nShortly after his 1907 conviction, Riazanov emigrated to the West. During this second interlude abroad, Riazanov dedicated himself to historical scholarship, studying the history of the International Workingmen's Association in the archives of the German Social-Democratic Party and in the British Museum in London. \n\nWhile in London, Riazanov read extensively from the files of the \"New York Tribune\" and other newspapers, collecting material written by Karl Marx and Frederick Engels for the periodical press. This journalism of Marx and Engels which Riazanov so painstakingly gathered was eventually published in book form in 1917, a publication which cemented Riazanov's reputation as one of the world's leading experts in the literary output of these two leading lights of modern socialism.\n\nDuring Riazanov's second period of exile he became a close political associate of Leon Trotsky, contributing regularly to the latter's Vienna newspaper, \"Pravda.\" Riazanov actively supported Trotsky's Interdistrict Committee (the \"Mezhraionka\"), a group which shared the internationalist views of the Bolsheviks on the question of the war but which disagreed with them on organizational matters, seeking unity with revolutionary elements in the Menshevik camp.\n\nRiazanov was also a participant in the 1915 Zimmerwald Conference of the Second International. Riazanov rejected both the social-patriotic support of World War I advanced by many Western European socialists as well as the revolutionary defeatism advanced by the Bolsheviks.\n\nDuring the war, Riazanov lived in Paris, where he was a frequent contributor to the Russian-language socialist newspapers \"Golos\" (The Voice) and \"Nashe Slovo\" (Our Word).\n\nRiazanov returned to Russia following the February Revolution in 1917. There he was active in the growing trade union movement, helping to form the Russian Railway Union.\n\nTogether with the rest of the \"Mezhraiontsy,\" Riazanov joined the Bolshevik Party headed by V.I. Lenin in August 1917. Riazanov was opposed to the October Revolution, however, and was instead involved in an effort to establish a broad coalition government. In the same vein, Riazanov stood as an opponent of the Bolshevik decision to dissolve the elected Constituent Assembly in January 1918. \n\nIn March 1918, the decision of the Bolsheviks to sign the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk prompted Riazanov to resign from the Bolshevik Party — a temporary move which was shortly reversed with a reapplication for membership and readmission.\n\nIn 1918, Riazanov helped to establish the Socialist Academy of Social Sciences, an institute later known as the Communist Academy. \n\nIn 1920 Riazanov attended the 2nd World Congress of the Communist International as a member of the Russian delegation.\n\nRiazanov was an unorthodox member of the Russian Communist Party (bolsheviks) [RKP(b)]. He attended the 4th All-Russian Congress of Trade Unions in May 1921, at which he spoke in favor of the independence of the unions from the Communist Party. Working with Communist trade union leader Mikhail Tomsky, Riazanov also authored a resolution calling for wages to be paid with physical commodities rather than the devalued currency of the day — an action which put the duo at odds with Lenin, Stalin, and the Central Committee of the RKP(b).\n\nRadical French writer Boris Souvarine later lauded Riazanov's activity in this period as that of \"a conscious marxist, a democratic communist, in other words, opposed to any dictatorship over the proletariat.\" Riazanov's defense of trade union autonomy against the will of the party came at price, however, as Riazanov was effectively excluded from any active political responsibility after May 1921. Thereafter he assumed the role of Marxist academic.\n\nIn 1921 Riazanov established the Marx-Engels Institute, which became one of the main institutions of Soviet philosophy and history. Riazanov dedicated himself to the collection and publication of the collected writings of Marx and Engels, launching the Marx-Engels-Gesamtausgabe (MEGA), projected to be completed in 36 volumes. \n\nIn 1926 the Marx-Engels Institute, under Riazanov's supervision, also began the publication of a multi-volume collection called the \"Marx-Engels Archive,\" collecting scholarship on the biography and writings of the founders of Marxism.\n\nRiazanov also edited the works of other authors including Diderot, Feuerbach, and Hegel. He was a member of the Commission for the Study of the October Revolution and of the Russian Communist Party, commonly known as \"Istpart.\"\n\nIn 1929, Riazanov was elected to the Soviet Academy of Sciences.\n\nIn December 1930, I. I. Rubin, a research assistant at the Marx-Engels Institute since 1926, was arrested by the Soviet secret police and charged with participation in a plot to establish an underground organization called the \"Union Bureau of Mensheviks.\" As a lawyer, Rubin initially managed to avoid succumbing to false charges made by the interrogator, but he was nonetheless kept in custody and transferred to Suzdal. \n\nIn Suzdal, Rubin was subjected to a cramped punishment cell barely bigger than a man and to the torture of solitary confinement. With his health starting to fail, Rubin was eventually compelled to give false written testimony against David Riazanov to secret police investigators. Rubin claimed that he had kept an envelope containing secret documents of the mythical \"Menshevik Center\" in his office at the Marx-Engels Institute before discreetly passing them along to David Riazanov. Following a show trial conducted by prosecutor Nikolai Krylenko, Rubin was found guilty of participation in the plot and sentenced to a 5-year term of imprisonment. This coerced testimony of Rubin was used in building a case against his former employer, David Riazanov.\n\nWith his name under a cloud of suspicion and with a show trial of the purported \"Union Bureau of Mensheviks\" in the offing, Riazanov was dismissed as director of the Marx-Engels Institute in February 1931.\n\nSoon after the completion of the March trial of the Union Bureau — the so-called 1931 Menshevik Trial — with his name besmirched by false testimony, Riazanov was expelled from the Communist Party and arrested by the secret police, ostensibly \"for helping Menshevik counter-revolutionary activity.\"\n\nFollowing his arrest Riazanov was not sent to the brutal labor camps of the Gulag, but was instead subjected to administrative deportation to the city of Saratov. In Saratov, Riazanov worked for the next six years in a university library. Riazanov's Marx-Engels Institute was consolidated with the Lenin Institute later in 1931 to form the Marx-Engels-Lenin Institute, under the direction of V.V. Adoratsky.\n\nDuring the Ezhovshchina of 1937, Riazanov was again arrested, this time as a purported member of a \"right-opportunist Trotskyist organisation.\" On 21 January 1938, following a perfunctory trial, the Military Collegium of the USSR Supreme Court condemned Riazanov to death and he was executed later that same day.\n\nRiazanov was posthumously rehabilitated in 1958. He was further rehabilitated in political terms in 1989 as part of the \"glasnost\" campaign of Mikhail Gorbachev. \n\nAccording to historian Colum Leckey, David Riazanov's chief achievement lay in the realm of Marxology — acquiring, preparing, and publishing for the first time previously unknown writings of Karl Marx and Frederick Engels. Included among these were the works \"The German Ideology,\" sections of \"The Economic and Philosophical Manuscripts of 1844,\" \"The Critique of Hegel's Philosophy of Right\"' and \"Dialectics of Nature.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35971482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35971482", "title": "Day length fluctuations", "text": "Day length fluctuations\n\nThe length of the day, which has increased over the long term of Earth's history due to tidal effects, is also subject to fluctuations on a shorter scale of time. Exact measurements of time by atomic clocks and satellite laser ranging have revealed that the length of day (LOD) is subject to a number of different changes. These subtle variations have periods that range from a few weeks to a few years. They are attributed to interactions between the dynamic atmosphere and Earth itself. The International Earth Rotation and Reference Systems Service monitors the changes.\n\nIn the absence of external torques, the total angular momentum of Earth as a whole system must be constant. Internal torques are due to relative movements and mass redistribution of Earth's core, mantle, crust, oceans, atmosphere, and cryosphere. In order to keep the total angular momentum constant, a change of the angular momentum in one region must necessarily be balanced by angular momentum changes in the other regions.\n\nCrustal movements (such as continental drift) or polar cap melting are slow secular events. The characteristic coupling time between core and mantle has been estimated to be on the order of ten years, and the so-called 'decade fluctuations' of Earth's rotation rate are thought to result from fluctuations within the core, transferred to the mantle. The length of day (LOD) varies significantly even for time scales from a few years down to weeks (Figure), and the observed fluctuations in the LOD - after eliminating the effects of external torques - are a direct consequence of the action of internal torques. These short term fluctuations are very probably generated by the interaction between the solid Earth and the atmosphere.\n\nAny change of the axial component of the atmospheric angular momentum (AAM) must be accompanied by a corresponding change of the angular momentum of Earth's crust and mantle (due to the law of conservation of angular momentum). Because the moment of inertia of the system mantle-crust is only slightly influenced by atmospheric pressure loading, this mainly requires a change in the angular velocity of the solid Earth; \"i.e.\", a change of LOD. The LOD can presently be measured to a high accuracy over integration times of only a few hours, and general circulation models of the atmosphere allow high precision determination of changes in AAM in the model. A comparison between AAM and LOD shows that they are highly correlated. In particular, one recognizes an annual period of LOD with an amplitude of 0.34 milliseconds, maximizing on February 3, and a semiannual period with an amplitude of 0.29 milliseconds, maximizing on May 8, as well as 10‑day fluctuations of the order of 0.1 milliseconds. Interseasonal fluctuations reflecting El Niño events and quasi-biennial oscillations have also been observed. There is now general agreement that most of the changes in LOD on time scales from weeks to a few years are excited by changes in AAM.\n\nOne means of exchange of angular momentum between the atmosphere and the non gaseous parts of the earth is evaporation and precipitation. Massive quantities of water are in continual flux between the oceans and the atmosphere. As the mass of water (vapour) rises its rotation must slow due to conservation of angular momentum. Equally when if falls as rain, its rate of rotation will increase to conserve angular momentum. Any net global transfer of water mass from oceans to the atmosphere or the opposite implies a change in the speed of rotation of the solid/liquid Earth which will be reflected in LOD. \n\nObservational evidence shows that there is no significant time delay between the change of AAM and its corresponding change of LOD for periods longer than about 10 days. This implies a strong coupling between atmosphere and solid Earth due to surface friction with a time constant of about 7 days, the spin-down time of the Ekman layer. This spin-down time is the characteristic time for the transfer of atmospheric axial angular momentum to Earth's surface and vice versa.\n\nThe zonal wind-component on the ground, which is most effective for the transfer of axial angular momentum between Earth and atmosphere, is the component describing rigid rotation of the atmosphere. The zonal wind of this component has the amplitude \"u\" at the equator relative to the ground, where \"u\" > 0 indicates superrotation and \"u\" < 0 indicates retrograde rotation with respect to the solid Earth. All other wind terms merely redistribute the AAM with latitude, an effect that cancels out when averaged over the globe.\n\nSurface friction allows the atmosphere to 'pick up' angular momentum from Earth in the case of retrograde rotation or release it to Earth in the case of superrotation. Averaging over longer time scales, no exchange of AAM with the solid Earth takes place. Earth and atmosphere are decoupled. This implies that the ground level zonal wind-component responsible for rigid rotation must be zero on the average. Indeed, the observed meridional structure of the climatic mean zonal wind on the ground shows westerly winds (from the west) in middle latitudes beyond about ± 30 latitude and easterly winds (from the east) in low latitudes—the trade winds—as well as near the poles\n(prevailing winds).\nThe atmosphere picks up angular momentum from Earth at low and high latitudes and transfers the same amount to Earth at middle latitudes.\n\nAny short term fluctuation of the rigidly rotating zonal wind-component is then accompanied by a corresponding change in LOD. In order to estimate the order of magnitude of that effect, one may consider the total atmosphere to rotate rigidly with velocity \"u\" (in m/s) without surface friction. Then this value is related to the corresponding change of the length of day (in milliseconds) as\n\nThe annual component of the change of the length of day of  ms corresponds then to a superrotation of  m/s, and the semiannual component of  ms to  m/s.\n"}
{"id": "58314758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58314758", "title": "Desecularization", "text": "Desecularization\n\nDesecularization is a sociological term that describes the proliferation or growth of religion, usually after a period of prior secularization. The theory of desecularization is reactionary to the older theory known as The Secularization Thesis, which referred to the gradual decline religion to a point of extinction. In the last few decades, scholars have gestured to continued church attendance in Western countries, the rise in religious fundamentalism and the prevalence of religious conflict as evidence of the continued relevance of religion in the modern world. A former proponent of the earlier secularization thesis, Peter Berger, has now expressed his support for the newer theory, stating that the \"world today... is as furiously religious as it ever was.” \n\nMany scholars of the 19th century posited that the world was undergoing a process of secularization. Individuals such as Emile Durkheim, Max Weber, Karl Marx and Sigmund Freud believed that this trend would continue until religion became essentially insignificant in the public sphere. At the least it was believed that religion would become \"privatized.\" The secularization thesis was underscored by rationalism, an argument born from the Enlightenment Era. According to Norris and Inglehart, the traditional view of 19th century secularization can be divided into two perspectives (1) 'Demand-Side theories' and (2) 'Supply Side Theories.'\n\nDemand Side theories of secularization insist that the phenomenon occurs \"bottom up,\" such that as a whole, the general population will become increasingly rational independent of any influence from the secular government or religious leadership body.\n\nExamples of Demand Side theories can be found in the accounts given by Weber and Durkheim. Whilst Weber rarely actually used the term \"secularization,\" he is generally given credit for alluding to the idea that religion was gradually losing its prominence in society. According to Weber, the world was initially seen as unified such that religion, politics and economics all existed on the same social plane, meaning that the term \"religion\" was actually not necessary nor was it widely used because it was encompassed in all aspects of life. According to Weber, when different aspects of society such as politics and economics became severed from religion, this started an inevitable demise such that religion would become extinct in the public sphere.\n\nSupply Side theories of secularization argue that the demand for religion exerted by the general population remains constant. This means that any change in the religious landscape occurs as a result of the manipulation of the \"supply market\" by religious leaders. The construction therefore views the phenomenon as 'top down' development. Bruce argues that the \"supply\" of religion is greatest when there is a \"free\" and \"competitive\" market for \"providers\" of religion, as in most Western nations, as opposed to states where one religion predominates.\n\nThe term \"Desecularization\" appears in the title of Peter Berger's seminal work \"The Desecularization of the World: Resurgent Religion and World Politics.\" According to Karpov, the term has received little analysis in the field of sociology, however this section will refer to at least one significant development in the term’s definition since its first use. \" \"\n\nBerger explains that the assumption that the modern world is secular has been “falsified.\" In another article online, he acknowledges that his original use of the term simply referred to “the continuing strong presence of religion in the modern world.” Karpov has since developed the definition of the term, which Berger subsequently affirmed. Karpov defines the term as referring to a phenomenon that is counter-secularization and thus is reactionary to a prior period of secularism. He states that Desecularization can be defined as \"the growth of religion's societal influence,\" but only if it develops in response to \"previously secularizing trends.\" Therefore, Karpov's development of the term essentially limited the definition to instances where religion was actively re-established as opposed to simply a state of continuity.\n\nSome scholars raise the issue of evidence. Karpov for example, mounts a discussion on the different analytics that can be used in providing evidence for desecularizing trends. He divides these analytics into two different types of evidence, (1) societal-level data or \"macro-data\" and (2) non-societal data, named in Karpov’s article as “mega data.\" Macro-data deals with evidence obtained from individual societal “units.” These units cannot exclusively be referred to as countries or nation-states because sometimes they can represent smaller sections, i.e. racial groups. Other data (\"mega-data\") is less objective according to Karpov, because it often refers to trends in more abstract terms such as in “modern society” or civilization generally. Essentially, mega-date data attempts to identify patterns on a more cosmic or global scale, whereas macro data can be very specific to nations, cities and racial groups such as church attendance and census results.  \n\nBecause the term Desecularization has been used to describe a global trend, the question raised by Karpov is whether macro-data analytics can be considered as valid when they indicate specific trends in “societal units,” rather than global trends. There are two primary critiques of macro analytics: (1) that it leads to “methodological nationalism,” causing a fixation on nation-states rather than broader civilization. The next argument is that of (2) temporal limitation – the concern that because our current concept of “society” is relatively recent, a focus on societal-level analytics (macro data) restricts sociological analysis to modernity and no other time period. According to Karpov this poses an issue when considering religions with ancient historical trajectories. \n\nKarpov also cites several implications that result from using “mega” analytics, overall suggesting that it can allow for an understanding of desecularization that is rooted both in its historical trajectory, and its presence in modernity. He concludes that whilst “macro” data can limit the analysis of desecularization, it can be compounded and used in conjunction with “mega” analytics to give sociologists a clear overall picture of a religious trend. \n\nFinke and Stark state that church attendance in America from 1776 to 2000 has in fact increased from 17% of the population to 62% of the population. They argue that the religious landscape in the 20th and 21st centuries only appear to be fading in significance because traditional routes of religious worship are being replaced by new wave religiosity. Finally, they claim that populations in the modern world are moving away from traditional or established denominations such as Catholicism and participating in religious affairs in a more individualized sense. For example, Finke and Stark argue that the colonial period in America was not as religious as once thought, using church attendance as an indicator of religiosity. Instead they suggest that the onset of globalization and religious pluralism is responsible for a higher proportion of church involvement when compared with the monolithic, traditional histories of the mainstream churches.\n\nChristopher Marsh explains the secularization in Russia before the collapse of the Soviet Union, stating that the regime was underscored by “scientific atheism,” which was ultimately manifested in the persecution of religious clergy in Russia throughout the duration of the regime. This secularization was indicated in the surveys conducted between 1981 and 1990, that showed a sharp decline in religious and supernatural beliefs, particularly in young people. In Lambert's study, 12 variables were used in the survey to denote religiosity, which included propensity to pray, belief in an afterlife etc. Furthermore, in a study conducted by Evans and Northmore-Ball, 80 percent of individuals claimed to be Russian Orthodox in 2007, with only half of the population doing the same in 1993, immediately after the collapse of the Soviet Union. Both Berger and Karpov use this evidence to bolster their accounts of Desecularization in the present.\n\nZeng discusses the increasingly religious paradigm within civil service entrance examinations - tests which are intended to sort applicants for civil service and \"justify social hierarchy,\" as well as academic examinations for school and university. The study uses ethnographic evidence and interviews with civil servants to provide evidence for this phenomenon. Zeng highlights the systemic use of \"emas\" - prayer symbols that are used in Shintoism and other East-Asian religions, to invoke positive outcomes in entrance exams. According to Zeng, these are sufficiently prevalent in some parts of Japan such that individual universities such as Keio University in Tokyo, offer their own prayer templates for prospective students. Zeng also found that in two separate non-academic shrines in Japan, more than half of the \"emas\" were directed toward such exams. \n\nSo far this article has suggested that The Secularization Thesis was the sociological predecessor of Desecularization, which is a more contemporary sociological theory. However, the secularization-desecularization dichotomy is still surrounded by much debate in regards to its application to modernity. Some contemporary scholars in the 20th and 21st century have argued that the Secularization Thesis is not nullified and that the term 'desecularization' can only be applied in isolated, societal circumstances. Wilson has suggested that commercialism continues to undermine religion in relation to religious bodies such as the Church, and non-religious bodies such as the family unit and economic institutions. \n\nCritics of the contemporary theory of desecularization such as Wilson, still concede that religiosity is not trending towards extinction because of continued religious piety across the globe. However, they do argue that its relationship with political and economic institutions is indeed subject to a continued decline because of the increased pressure from the scientific and technological spheres. They argue not only that this proposition is plausible in modernity, but that it still compatible with 19th century conceptions of Secularization that foreshadowed its \"privatization,\" if not extinction. Hence, critics of Desecularization suggest that whilst it can account for some instances of continued and revised religiosity, it does not adequately describe the relationship between religion and privatized inquisitions and governments. \n\nMouzelis suggests that this case is \"strong,\" however it only refers to \"inter-institutional\" secularization (i.e. the relationship between religion and other institutions). He offers the opinion that the argument against Desecularization becomes weakened when one considers \"developments within the religious sphere proper,\" or what he calls, \"intra-institutional\" secularization. Similarly, Martin uses evidence of increased Pentecostalism in both developed and non-developed countries (particularly the U.S) to bolster the argument for Desecularization. Bruce offers a rebuttal to this point, claiming that The United States is simply slower to become secular due to certain structural predispositions, namely the steady rate of migration. \n\nBruce also suggests that the dramatic changes to religiosity in the modern world such as increased liberalism, represent evidence of its decline. According to Bruce, this trajectory could have begun with the transition from medieval Catholicism to the Protestant reformation under Martin Luther. Mouzelis describes this as a potentially weak argument in that most proponents of Desecularization would simply view events such as the Reformation as a religious development or the birth of a new type of Christianity, which could have the potential to further globalize its consumption. \n\nAmong these dramatic changes in religion, according to Bruce, is the deterioration of supernatural elements of religiosity, leaving behind a belief system that its more morally grounded a development which represents a \"retardation\" of religion. Again, Mouzelis takes a more objective stance, suggesting that this development can be seen as both evidence for and against Desecularization because such movements can still capitulate the globalization of certain faiths. \n\nOverall, critics of desecularization tend to argue that whilst religious enthusiasm is not necessarily in decline, the significance of religion in the public sphere, and as a limb of political and economic institutions, is indeed continually diminished by modernity. This can be described as the \"privatization\" of religion. However, desecularization proponents tend to suggest that these aforementioned changes represent religious developments rather than religious declines, and therefore cannot be used as evidence of general secularizing trend. \n"}
{"id": "46463450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46463450", "title": "East Asian Library and the Gest Collection", "text": "East Asian Library and the Gest Collection\n\nThe East Asian Library and the Gest Collection (pronounced \"Guest\") in the Princeton University Library is the university's principle collection of materials in Chinese, Japanese, and Korean languages, as well as works on Chinese, Japanese and Korean linguistics and literatures in Western languages. \n\nThe Gest Oriental Library is named in honor of Guion Moore Gest (1864-1948), whose collection of Chinese books and manuscripts formed the Gest Chinese Research Library. The Gest Research Library was officially opened on February 13 (Chinese New Year's Day), 1926, at McGill University in Montreal. It was renamed the Gest Oriental Library when the collection was moved to Princeton in 1937. The library's holdings were expanded into Japanese and Korean after World War II to form one of the largest collections in North America. The Chinese collection is especially strong in Ming dynasty editions and works on traditional Chinese medicine.\n\nGuion Moore Gest built one of the largest collections of Chinese language rare books in North America in spite of the fact that he was not especially wealthy and could not read Chinese. Hu Shi, a prominent scholar who served as curator 1950-1952, noted that the collection, which \"began as a hobby and developed into an investment, soon became a burden to a founder\".\n\nGest travelled often to Asia in the 1910s and 1920s on business for the Gest Engineering Company, which he founded and headed. As early as the 1890s he develolped an interest in Buddhism and bought a Japanese manuscript scroll. He retained Chen Baozhen, a Chinese scholar who had been an imperial tutor, to locate and purchase books for his collection. Chen assembled more than 8,000 volumes, (\"juan\"?) mostly standard works. \n\nAfter Chen's death in 1900, Gest retained an agent in Beijing, Commander I.V. Gillis (1875-1948), a retired United States Naval Attaché. He spoke Mandarin Chinese fluently, but could not read classical Chinese texts that had not been punctuated. He developed intimate knowledge through many years of handling books, however, and a leading Chinese bibliographer who examined his collection and his catalogues wrote that \"his knowledge of Chinese bibliography is exceptionally good\". Gillis' wife was a Manchu princess, and his web of personal relations led him to the Guangxu emperor's tutor and other high officials with collections of useful volumes. Gest suffered from glaucoma, and Gillis suggested that he try an eye medicine which was a specialty the Ma family of Dingxian, Hebei province, who kept a shop in the capital. This medicine sparked Gest's interest in traditional Chinese medicine and in collecting books on the subject. \n\nBecause Gest's funds were limited, Gillis bought selectively, concentrating on works printed in the Ming and Qing dynasties, which were of less interest to wealthy Chinese and Japanese collectors than works printed in the Song dynasty. He acquired \"Palace editions,\" treatises printed by government agencies, commercial publishers, and manuscripts from all parts of the country. He did not always insist on rare editions, though he bought a great many. Gest and Gillis acquired some 500 works in 2,000 \"juan\" on Chinese medicine, the largest such collection in the West at the time. Probably the most important single work in the history of Chinese medicine, Li Shizhen's \"Bencao gangmu\" (\"The Compendium of Materia Medica\"), for instance, was published in the 16th century, but the collection's edition is a 19th century reprint. Together with later additions, the collection offers material all aspects of medical thought and practice, as well as the history of Chinese science.\n\nGillis' staff of three searched bookstores and examined private collections. Gillis had worked in American naval intelligence, and enjoyed using his training to demonstrate to his friends how to determine that the same person had used different typewriters by the similar weight of their strokes. He once verified the date of a purported Sung dynasty book by examining the paper fiber under a microscope. He and his staff marked missing or damaged pages with signed slips and had damaged books interleaved, rebound, and boxed. Gillis catalogued the books, which meant that they were ready to shelve upon arrival in North America, and he even crated and shipped the furniture and wall decorations that were used first at McGill and then at Princeton.\n\nIn 1928 Gest hired the third person responsible for the early buildup of the collection, Nancy Lee Swann, a returned missionary who was then finishing her doctoral degree in Chinese studies at Columbia University. She moved to Toronto and supplied a professional competence needed to turn a collection of rarities into a working collection. The catalogue of the collection had been prepared by the first curator, whose Chinese was not adequate. Gillis called it \"truly pathetic.\" Swann revised the catalogue and became curator in 1933. She remained curator until her retirement in 1946. Gest, Gillis, and Dr. Swann built the collection from some 232 titles in 8,000 fascicles in 1928 to close to 130,000 by the time the collection was moved to Princeton.\n\nBy 1932, Gest's Chinese collection at McGill was second in size only to that of the Library of Congress. Gest explained his motivations in building his collection and establishing the library at McGill:\n\nGest and Swann energetically promoted use of the collection. In 1933, Gest promoted a project for doctors at the Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research to research the use of acupuncture to stimulate the sympathetic nervous sysyem. Swann welcomed prominent sinologists and authors such as Berthold Laufer and L. Carrington Goodrich, and Pearl S. Buck, as well as applying for research funds with the American Council of Learned Societies. The Gest collection fell behind in its rivalry with the Library of Congress because McGill could not offer support.\n\nThe economic crisis of the 1930s put the collection and the library at risk. After 1934, McGill could no longer pay Swann's salary or provide quarters for the collection and closed the Chinese studies program that had been started only a few years earlier.}Gest at first paid Swann's salary of $2,000 when he could, but his eyesight and business were both failing. For several years Swann worked without pay and Gillis used $10,000 of his own savings to purchase and ship acquisitions.\n\nGest explored selling the collection to Harvard or Yale universities, but finally turned to the Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research for help in purchasing the collection back from McGill, and then donating it to the Princeton Institute for Advanced Studies The Institute, however, had no expertise in the area and the university had no program in Chinese studies. In contrast to the spacious and comfortable rooms in Toronto, the collection was now housed in what Swann called \"makeshift quarters\" in the basement of 20 Nassau Street, a storefront building owned by the university. Dr. Swann, the only full-time staff member, had responsibility for all aspects of the library, from cataloging to checking out books to guiding visiting scholars through the collection. During a heavy storm, she had to rouse the janitorial staff to place barriers on the floor above to keep water from coming through. \n\nGuion Moore Gest died in 1948, as did his longtime agent Gillis. Swann received a paycheck marked \"FINAL\". She protested that she was entitled to three months' notice, but the trustees of the Institute for Advanced Study extended her retirement by only two months.\nWhen Princeton's Firestone Library was completed in 1948, the Institute transferred the Gest Collection transferred there.\n\nDuring World War II and the early post-war years, the university established programs in Chinese and Japanese studies, which required increased library holdings. From 1950 to 1952, the curator was Hu Shi, distinguished Chinese scholar and former ambassador from China to the United States. Hu engaged James Tung (Dong Shigang) as his assistant, who became Curator and served from 1952 to 1977. \n\nThe collection expanded substantially under Tung's curatorship. Princeton faculty member Frederick W. Mote guided further development on the Chinese side, and Marius Jansen led a major expansion of Japanese holdings. The collection of Japanese historical documents and publications became particularly rich.The collection was re-named the Princeton East Asian Library, though often called the Gest Library. In 1972 the collection was transferred to Palmer and Jones Halls.\n\nThe collection at the time of the move to Princeton in 1937 held some 100,000 volumes (\"juan\"), 40% of which were manuscripts, early printings, and rare editions. The 24,000 volumes of works printed in the Ming dynasty made it one of the largest in the West. After World War II, the collection became the third largest in the US, after the Harvard-Yenching collection (which it had once outranked), and the Library of Congress holdings, which are almost twice as large. In 2016, the library held roughly 425,000 volumes of Chinese books, with a special strength in pre-modern literature and history; some 163,000 volumes of Japanese language book; a smaller collection of Korean language books; and more than 20,000 western language volumes. Acquisition librarians specialize in each of the major areas. \n\nProfessor Ch'u Wan-li (Qu Wanli; 1907-1979), Curator of the National Central Library and the Institute of History and Philology, Academic Sinica, in Taiwan compiled a 671-page \"Catalogue of the Chinese Rare Books in the Gest Collection of the Princeton University\", published in Taiwan in 1974. \n\nThe library publishes \"The Gest Library Journal\" (ISSN: 0891-0553), which started in 1986 and was renamed \"The East Asian Library Journal\" (ISSN: 1079-8021) in 1994. The contents are available free online. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20610197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20610197", "title": "El-Kerak Inscription", "text": "El-Kerak Inscription\n\nThe El-Kerak Inscription was discovered in 1958 in Jordan, near the El-Kerak wadi. It is a basalt inscription fragment measuring high by wide. The inscription has been dated to the late ninth century BC.\n\nThe stone was acquired by the Jordan Archaeological Museum in 1958. It was reportedly found by Falah Qaddur (or Fallah el-Baddour), a bedouin from the Tafilah Governorate. According to Reed and Winnett, Qaddur stated that he had found the stone \"in a foundation trench that had been cut for the construction of a new building in Al Karak.\" A letter from Awni Dajani, then the head of antiquities at the Jordan Archaeological Museum, stated that the stone was found by Odeh Subh el-Khwalideh (a relative of Qaddur) in the house of Suleiman el-Mubayyedin, near the Roman Pool east of Kerak.\n\nThe inscription contains 3 incomplete lines, comprising 8 complete words and fragments of 5 more, all written in the \"Moabite language\" known from only one other artifact - the Mesha Stele. The text of the inscription looks like that of the Mesha Stele, but there is one special feature: the letter \"He\" has four horizontal strokes going to the left from the vertical stroke, while a typical \"He\" in tenth to fifth century BC northwest Semitic inscriptions contains only three strokes to the left. This letter is present in the inscription at least 3 times, and each time it appears with 4 horizontal strokes. Another different between the Mesha Stele and the Moabite inscription, is the separating between the words. In the Mesha Stele there are dots, and in the Moabite inscription there are small lines.\n\nProvided below is transliteration and transcription of the inscription in Hebrew letters as well as its English translation. Words in brackets are not preserved in the inscription, but reconstructed, partly by comparison with the Mesha Stele.\n\n"}
{"id": "16190811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16190811", "title": "Francesco St Jerome", "text": "Francesco St Jerome\n\nThe Francesco \"St Jerome\" is an oil painting on copper attributed to the circle of the Italian Renaissance artist Palma the Younger, dating from c. 1595. \nThe painting was believed to possibly be the lost original work by Palma when it was rediscovered in January 2008 and became known to the public upon its featuring in a number of newspapers in the United Kingdom and around the world.\n\nNamed after Palma's patron, Francesco Maria II della Rovere, Duke of Urbino. The Duke is believed to have commissioned the original composition and the Francesco St Jerome is the finest surviving example of the now believed lost masterpiece.\n\nAfter its discovery, the painting was loaned for two years to The Courtauld Gallery as a teaching aid to students. Offering for academic study a rare surviving example of copper painting from the period, This included extensive research and restoration in an attempt to ascertain its authorship.\n\nThe painting dates from the height of Palma's fame and artistic ability and was most likely created by one of his students or a pupil in the workshop of Hendrik Goltioz, who famously produced an engraving of the composition. One of the most outstanding aspects of the painting is its fine detail and vividly bright colors: paintings on copper often retain their brightness and condition better than those on canvas. The painting is currently part of The Albertyne Collections on loan to History Portal, a not for profit community, arts, history, and cultural focus organisation.\n\n"}
{"id": "23553488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23553488", "title": "Fulgens and Lucrece", "text": "Fulgens and Lucrece\n\nFulgens and Lucrece is a late 15th-century interlude by Henry Medwall. It is the earliest purely secular English play that survives. Since John Cardinal Morton, for whom Medwall wrote the play, died in 1500, the work must have been written before that date. It was probably first performed at Lambeth Palace in 1497, while Cardinal Morton was entertaining ambassadors from Spain and Flanders. The play is based on a Latin \"novella\" by Buonaccorso da Montemagno that had been translated into English by John Tiptoft, 1st Earl of Worcester and published in 1481 by William Caxton.\nThe play was printed in 1512–1516 by John Rastell, and was later only available as a fragment until a copy showed up in an auction of books from Lord Mostyn's collection in 1919. Henry E. Huntington acquired this copy, and arranged the printing of a facsimile. The play is an example of a dramatised \"débat\".\n\nThe source of the play is the Latin treatise ' (\"On True Nobility\") by the Italian humanist Bonaccorso or Buonaccorso da Montemagno of Pistoia, written in 1438. This treatise had been translated into French by as ' and printed by William Caxton's friend, Colard Mansion, in Bruges around 1475. The French version was later translated into English by John Tiptoft, 1st Earl of Worcester and printed by Caxton in 1481, on the last pages of \"Cicero of Old Age and Friendship\". Medwall used Tiptoft's translation as his source.\n\n\"\" tells how , the daughter of the Roman senator , is wooed by the idle patrician and the studious plebeian . asks her father for advice, and asks the senate to decide on the matter. Each suitor then pleads before the senate. The senate's decision is not mentioned in the treatise.\n\nThe plot is set in ancient Rome and deals with the wooing of Lucrece, daughter of the Roman senator Fulgens, by , a patrician, and , a plebeian. They both plead their worthiness to Lucrece (and not to the senate, as in Medwall's source). Despite Publius' superficial charms, wealth, and noble background, Lucrece eventually chooses . He does not have a famous lineage like Publius but his honest love for Lucrece shows his true nobility.\n\nThe play also contains a comic subplot which appears to begin outside the play and then merges with it. In this subplot, the characters A and B discuss a play that they expect to see, and B relates the plot, which is actually the plot of \"\". A and B later turn out to be servants of Cornelius and Gaius, and they try to win the love of Joan, a handmaid of Lucrece.\n\nThe comic subplot and Lucrece's final choice were additions by Medwall. It disrupts the flow of the story as the mischievous comic relief characters A and B steal the audience's attention with their gags and breaking of the fourth wall. Medwall ingeniously uses A and B to subtly mock the idea of class and lordship, with the play asking if nobility can be found in the common man? A and B also make references to their fashion with A mistaking B for an actor because of his fine clothing, suggesting that actors were gaining a greater status in England around that time.\n\nThis is considered to be the first inclusion of a subplot in an English Language drama, and thus, in many ways, exceeds the main plot in critical discussion.\n\nThe first modern revival of Fulgens and Lucres was by the Group Theatre of London, at the Everyman Theatre, Hampstead in March 1932.§ Fulgens and Lucres was recently produced by Poculi Ludique Societas the Centre for Drama, Theatre and Performance Studies at the University of Toronto, Nov. 8-16, 2014. The production was directed by Matthew Milo Sergi, Professor of Early English Drama at the University of Toronto.\n\n"}
{"id": "350900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=350900", "title": "Gothi", "text": "Gothi\n\nA goði or gothi (plural goðar) is an Old Norse term for a chieftain-priest. Gyðja is the female form. The title is primarily known from medieval Iceland where it lived on as a secular political title after Christianization.\n\nDuring the pagan era, the \"goði\" was a local chieftain who also functioned as a heathen priest. After the Settlement in Iceland, the \"hofgoði\" was a temple priest; this was usually a wealthy and respected man in his district, for he had to maintain the communal hall or \"hof\" in which community religious observances and feasts were held. The area over which a \"goði\" had leadership was termed a \"goðorð\". Over time, and especially after 1000, when the Christian conversion occurred in Iceland, the term \"goði\" lost its sacred connotations and came to mean simply \"chieftain\".\n\nThe name appears in Wulfila's Gothic language translation of the Bible as \"gudja\" for \"priest\", but in Old Norse it is only the feminine form \"gyðja\" that perfectly corresponds to the Gothic form. The corresponding masculine Old Norse form would have been an unattested *\"gyði\".\n\nIn Scandinavia there are surviving early attestations in the Proto-Norse form \"gudija\" from the Norwegian Nordhuglo runestone (Rundata N KJ65 U), and in the later Old Norse form \"goði\" from two Danish runestones, the Glavendrup stone (DR 209) and the Helnæs Runestone (DR 190). There are also a few placenames, such as \"Gudby\" in Södermanland, Sweden, that probably retain the name.\n\nOtherwise, there are no further surviving attestations except from Iceland where the \"goðar\" would be of historical significance.\n\nThe term \"goði\" is often used as a priestly title by modern adherents of various denominations of Germanic Neopaganism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "263233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=263233", "title": "Hand-waving", "text": "Hand-waving\n\nHand-waving (with various spellings) is a pejorative label for attempting to be seen as effective – in word, reasoning, or deed – while actually doing nothing effective or substantial. It is most often applied to debate techniques that involve fallacies, misdirection and the glossing over of details. It is also used academically to indicate unproven claims and skipped steps in proofs (sometimes intentionally, especially in instructional materials), with some specific meanings in particular fields, including literary criticism and speculative fiction, mathematics and logic, and science and engineering. The term can additionally be used in work situations, when attempts are made to display productivity or assure accountability without actually resulting in them. The term can also be used as a self-admission of, and suggestion to defer discussion about, an allegedly unimportant weakness in one's own argument's evidence, to forestall an opponent dwelling on it. In debate competition, certain cases of this form of hand-waving may be explicitly permitted.\n\n\"Hand-waving\" is an idiomatic metaphor, derived in part from the use of excessive gesticulation, perceived as unproductive, distracting or nervous, in communication or other effort. The term also evokes the sleight-of-hand distraction techniques of stage magic, and suggests that the speaker or writer seems to believe that if they, figuratively speaking, simply wave their hands, no one will notice or speak up about the holes in the reasoning. This implication of misleading intent has been reinforced by the pop-culture influence of the \"Star Wars\" franchise, in which mystically powerful hand-waving is fictionally used for mind control, and some uses of the term in public discourse are explicit \"Star Wars\" references.\n\nActual hand-waving motions may be used either by a speaker to indicate a desire to avoid going into details, or by critics to indicate that they believe the proponent of an argument is engaging in a verbal hand-wave inappropriately.\n\nThe spelling of the compound varies (both with regard to this idiom and the everyday human communication gesture of waving). While \"hand-waving\" is the most common spelling of the unitary present participle and gerund in this usage, and \"hand-wave\" of the simple present verb, \"hand wave\" dominates as the noun-phrase form. \"Handwaving\" and \"handwave\" may be preferred in some circles, and are well attested. \"Hand waving\" is mostly used otherwise, e.g. \"she had one hand waving, the other on the rail\", but is found in some dictionaries in this form. A more arch, mock-antiquarian construction is \"waving of [the] hands\". Superlative constructions such as \"vigorous hand-waving\", \"waved their hand[s] furiously\", \"lots of waving of hands\", etc., are used to imply that the hand-waver lacks confidence in the information being conveyed, cannot convincingly express or defend the core of the argument being advanced. The descriptive epithet \"hand-waver\" has been applied to those engaging in hand-waving, but is not common. The opposite of hand-waving is sometimes called nose-following in mathematics .\n\nHowever it is spelled, the expression is also used the original literal meaning of gesturing in a greeting, departing, excited, or attention-seeking manner by waving the hands, as in \"friendly were the hand-waving crowds ...\" (— Sinclair Lewis), which dates to the mid-17th century as a hyphenated verb and the early 19th century United States as a fully compounded verb. It is unclear when the figurative usage arose. The \"Oxford Dictionary of English\" lists it as \"extended use\", and it appears primarily in modern American dictionaries, some of which label it \"informal\".\n\nHandwaving is frequently used in low-quality debate, including political campaigning and commentary, issue-based advocacy, advertising and public relations, tabloid journalism, opinion pieces, Internet memes, and informal discussion and writing. If the opponent in a debate or commentator on an argument alleges hand-waving, it suggests the proponent of the argument, position or message has engaged in one or more fallacies of logic, usually informal, and/or glossed over non-trivial details, and is attempting to challenges and deflect questions, as if swatting at flies. The \"distraction\" inherent in the sense of the term has become a key part of the meaning. The fallacies in question vary, but often include one of the many variants of argument to emotion, and in political discourse frequently involve unjustified assignment or transference of blame. Hand-waving is not itself a fallacy; the proponent's argument may incidentally be correct despite their failure to properly support it. A tertiary meaning refers to use of poorly-reasoned arguments specifically to impress or persuade.\n\n\"The New Hacker's Dictionary\" (a.k.a. \"The Jargon File\") observes:\nThe implication that hand-waving is done with the specific intent to mislead has long been attached to the term, due to the use of literal waving of a hand – either natural-looking or showy, but never desperate – by illusionists to distract audiences and misdirect their attention from the mechanisms of the sleight-of-hand, gimmicked props or other trick being used in the performance. This meaning has become reinforced in recent decades by the influence of \"\" (1977) and its sequels, in which the fictional Jedi mind trick involves a subtle hand wave with mystical powers – that only work on the weak-minded – to disguise reality and compel compliance. Consequently, there is an implication in current usage that a hand-waver may be craftily intending to deceive, and has a low opinion of the intelligence of the opponent or (especially) an audience or the general public. The labels \"Jedi hand wave\" and \"Jedi mind trick\" themselves are sometimes applied, in a tongue-in-cheek way, to this manipulation technique in public discourse; US Congressman Luke Messer's use of it in reference to President Barack Obama's 2016 State of the Union address generated headlines.\n\nIn an unplanned debate or presentation, an off-the-cuff essay, or an informal discussion, the proponent may have little or no time for preparation. Participants in such exchanges may use the term in reference to their own arguments, in the same sense as an author admitting a minor plot flaw . When the proponents use the term, they are conceding that they know an ancillary point of or intermediate step in their arguments is poorly supported; they are suggesting that such details aren't important and do not affect their key arguments or conclusions, and that the hand-waved details should be excluded from current consideration. Examples include when they believe a statement is true but cannot prove it at that time, and when the sources upon which they are relying conflict in minor ways: \"I'm hand-waving over the exact statistics here, but they all show at least a 20% increase, so let's move on\".\n\nIn formal debate competition, certain forms of hand-waving may sometimes be explicitly permitted. In policy debate, the concept of \"fiat\" allows a team to pursue a line a reasoning based on a scenario that is not presently true, if a judge is satisfied that the case has been that it could become true.\n\nBy extension, handwaving is used in literary, film and other media criticism of speculative fiction to refer to a plot device (e.g., a scientific discovery, a political development, or rules governing the behavior of a fictional creature) that is left unexplained or sloppily explained because it is convenient to the story, with the implication that the writer is aware of the logical weakness but hopes the audience will not notice or will suspend disbelief regarding such a macguffin, \"deus ex machina\", continuity error or plot hole.\n\nThe fictional material \"handwavium\" (a.k.a. \"unobtainium\", among other humorous names) is sometimes referred to in situations where the plot requires access to a substance of great value and properties that cannot be explained by real-world science, but is convenient to solving, or central to creating, a problem for the characters in the story. Perhaps the best known example is the spice melange, a fictional drug with supernatural properties, in Frank Herbert's far-future science-fantasy epic, \"Dune\".\n\n\"Hand-waving\" has come to be used in role-playing games to describe actions and conversations that are quickly glossed over, rather than acted out in full according to the rules. This may be done to keep from bogging down the play of the game with time-consuming but minor details.\n\nIn mathematics, and theory-dominated disciplines in which mathematics plays a major role, \"hand-waving\" refers to a reliance on heuristic, as opposed to rigorous, arguments. These may be useful in expository papers and seminar presentations, but fall short of the standard of proof needed to establish a result.\n\nAn accusation of mathematical hand-waving can be a professional attack, intended to denigrate the reliability of a speaker who has attempted to assert a proposition without being able to prove it. The mathematical profession tends to be receptive to informed critiques from any listener, and a claimant to a new result is expected to be able to answer any such question with a logical argument, up to a full proof. Should a speaker apparently fail to give such an answer, anyone in the audience who can supply the needed demonstration may sometimes upstage the speaker. The objector in such a case might receive some measure credit for the theorem the hand-waver presented. The opposite of hand-waving in mathematics and related fields is sometimes called nose-following, meaning the unimaginative development of a narrow line of reasoning.\n\nThe rationale for this culture of hyper-critical scrutiny is suggested by a quote of G. H. Hardy: \"[A mathematician's] subject is the most curious of all—there is none in which truth plays such odd pranks. It has the most elaborate and the most fascinating technique, and gives unrivalled openings for the display of sheer professional skill.\"\n\nHand-waving arguments in engineering and other applied sciences often include order-of-magnitude estimates and dimensional analysis, especially in the use of Fermi problems in physics and engineering education. However, competent, well-intentioned researchers and professors also rely on explicitly declared hand-waving when, given a limited time, a large result must be shown and minor technical details cannot be given much attention—e.g., \"it can be shown that is an even number\", as an intermediary step in reaching a conclusion.\n\nBack-of-the-envelope calculations are approximate ways to get an answer by over-simplification, and are comparable to hand-waving in this sense.\n\n\"Hand-waving\" has been used to describe work-related situations where productivity is seemingly displayed but deliverables are not produced, especially intentional engagement in busy work or pretend-work, vague claims of overwork or complications, impenetrably buzzword-laden rationalizations for delays or otherwise poor performance, and plausible-sounding but weak excuse-making and attention-deflecting tactics. In employment situations, as in political discourse, a hand-waving effort may seek to shift blame to other parties.\n\nAnother use is in reference to fiscal problems, such as an inability to adequately explain accounting discrepancies or an avoidance of accountability for missing funds.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35888594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35888594", "title": "Helmet of Peretu", "text": "Helmet of Peretu\n\nThe Helmet of Peretu () is a Geto-Dacian silver helmet dating from the 5th century BC, housed in the National Museum of Romanian History, Bucharest. It comes from Peretu area, in the Teleorman County, Romania. There were 50 artifacts having 750g. The helmet is similar to the Helmet of Coţofeneşti and other three Getian gold or silver helmets discovered so far.\n\n"}
{"id": "187425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=187425", "title": "Iamb (poetry)", "text": "Iamb (poetry)\n\nAn iamb () or iambus is a metrical foot used in various types of poetry. Originally the term referred to one of the feet of the quantitative meter of classical Greek prosody: a short syllable followed by a long syllable (as in \"above\"). This terminology was adopted in the description of accentual-syllabic verse in English, where it refers to a foot comprising an unstressed syllable followed by a stressed syllable (as in a-bove).\n\nR. S. P. Beekes has suggested that the \"iambos\" has a Pre-Greek origin. An old hypothesis is that the word is borrowed from Phrygian or Pelasgian, and literally means \"Einschritt\", i. e., \"one-step\", compare \"dithyramb\" and \"thriambus\", but H. S. Versnel rejects this etymology and suggests instead a derivation from a cultic exclamation. The word may be related to Iambe, a Greek minor goddess of verse, especially scurrilous, ribald humour. In ancient Greece iambus was mainly satirical poetry, lampoons, which did not automatically imply a particular metrical type. Iambic metre took its name from being characteristic of \"iambi\", not vice versa.\n\nIn accentual-syllabic verse an iamb is a foot that has the rhythmic pattern:\nUsing the 'ictus and x' notation (see systems of scansion for a full discussion of various notations) we can write this as:\n\nThe word 'attempt' is a natural iamb:\nIn phonology, an iambic foot is notated in a flat representation as (σ'σ) or as foot tree with two branches W and S where \"W\" = weak and \"S\" = strong.\n\nIambic pentameter is one of the most commonly used measures in English and German poetry. A line of iambic pentameter comprises five consecutive iambs.\n\nIambic trimeter is the metre of the spoken verses in Greek tragedy and comedy, comprising six iambs—as one iambic metrum consisted of two iambs. In English accentual-syllabic verse, iambic trimeter is a line comprising three iambs.\n\nLess common iambic measures include iambic tetrameter (four iambs per line) and iambic heptameter, sometimes called the \"fourteener\" (seven iambs per line). Lord Byron's also \"She Walks in Beauty\" exemplifies iambic tetrameter; iambic heptameter is found in Australian poet A. B. \"Banjo\" Paterson's \"The Man from Ironbark\". Related to iambic heptameter is the more common ballad verse (also called common metre), in which a line of iambic tetrameter is succeeded by a line of iambic trimeter, usually in quatrain form. Samuel Taylor Coleridge's \"The Rime of the Ancient Mariner\" is a classic example of this form.\n\nThe reverse of an iamb is called a trochee.\n\nKey:\n\nIambic dimeter is a meter referring to a line consisting of two iambic feet.\n\nThe way a crow\n\nShook down on me…. (Robert Frost, \"Dust of Snow\")\n\nIambic trimeter is a meter referring to a line consisting of three iambic feet.\n\nWe romped until the pans\n\nSlid from the kitchen shelf; (Theodore Roethke, \"My Papa's Waltz\")\n\nThe only news I know\n\nIs bulletins all day (Emily Dickinson, )\n\nIambic tetrameter is a meter referring to a line consisting of four iambic feet:\n\nIambic Pentameter is a meter referring to a line consisting of five iambic feet:\n\n(Although, it could be argued that this line in fact reads: Shall I compare thee to a summer's day?\nMeter is often broken in this way, sometimes for intended effect and sometimes simply due to the sound of the words in the line. Where the stresses lie can be debated, as it depends greatly on where the reader decides to place the stresses. Although in this meter the foot is no longer iambs but trochees.)\n\nIambic hexameter is a meter referring to a line consisting of six iambic feet. In English verse, \"alexandrine\" is typically used to mean \"iambic hexameter\"\n\nYe sacred Bards, that to ¦ your harps' melodious strings\nSung th'ancient Heroes' deeds (the monuments of Kings) (Michael Drayton, Poly-Olbion)\n\nIambic Heptameter is a meter referring to a line consisting of seven iambic feet:\n\nThrough iambic shortening, a word with the shape \"light–heavy\" or \"short–long\" changes to become \"light–light\".\n\n"}
{"id": "22062157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22062157", "title": "Institution for Field Research Expeditions", "text": "Institution for Field Research Expeditions\n\nInstitute for Field Research Expeditions (IFRE) is a non profit organization based in Dallas, Texas, United States founded in 2005. IFRE manages volunteer abroad programs, which are 2 to 12 weeks long.\n\nIn volunteer abroad programs, the participants contribute their labor in organizations that function to benefit the poor and deprived community of usually third world countries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36191672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36191672", "title": "John Sessions Memorial Award", "text": "John Sessions Memorial Award\n\nThe John Sessions Memorial Award is presented annually by the Reference and User Services Association of the American Library Association. It recognizes a library or library system which has made a significant effort to work with the labor community and by doing so has brought recognition to the history and contribution of the labor movement to the development of the United States. John Sessions of the American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations (AFL-CIO) was co-chair of the AFL-CIO/ ALA Joint Committee on Library Service to Labor Groups. \n\nJohn Sessions Memorial Award\n\nJohn Sessions Memorial Award American Library Association\n"}
{"id": "19807769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19807769", "title": "Journal of Religious &amp; Theological Information", "text": "Journal of Religious &amp; Theological Information\n\nThe Journal of Religious & Theological Information is a peer-reviewed academic journal published by Routledge that covers research in the field of library and information studies as relating to religious studies and related fields, including philosophy, ethnic studies, anthropology, sociology, and history.\n"}
{"id": "40648952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40648952", "title": "Journal of Visual Communication and Image Representation", "text": "Journal of Visual Communication and Image Representation\n\nThe Journal of Visual Communication and Image Representation is a peer-reviewed academic journal of media studies published by Elsevier. It was established in 1990 and is published in 8 issues per year. The editors-in-chief are M.T. Sun (University of Washington) and Z. Liu (Microsoft Research). According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2015 impact factor of 1.530.\n\n"}
{"id": "23208628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23208628", "title": "Lawrence Foanaota", "text": "Lawrence Foanaota\n\nLawrence Foanaota OBE, born on Malaita, is a Solomon Islander archaeologist. He has been director & curator of the National Museum of the Solomon Islands since 1972. He has also been President of the Pacific Island Museums Association.\n\nIn 2009, the Queen of the Solomon Islands, Elizabeth II, appointed him Officer of the Order of the British Empire, for \"services to the National Museum and to the community\".\n"}
{"id": "30225408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30225408", "title": "Legal Services Corp. v. Velazquez", "text": "Legal Services Corp. v. Velazquez\n\nLegal Services Corp. v. Velazquez, 531 U.S. 533 (2001), is a decision of the Supreme Court of the United States concerning the constitutionality of funding restrictions imposed by the United States Congress. At issue were restrictions on the Legal Services Corporation (LSC), a private, non-profit corporation established by Congress. The restrictions prohibited LSC attorneys from representing clients attempting to amend (or challenge) existing welfare law. The case was brought by Carmen Velazquez, whose LSC-funded attorneys sought to challenge existing welfare provisions, believing it was the only way to get Velazquez financial relief.\n\nThe Court ruled that this specific restriction violated the free speech guarantees of the First Amendment to the United States Constitution. Because LSC facilitated \"private\" speech—that of its grantees—the restrictions did not simply regulate government speech. Because the restrictions blocked attempts to change only a specific area of law, the Court held, they could not be considered viewpoint-neutral; the government is prohibited from making such viewpoint-based restrictions of private speech.\n\nReactions to the decision were mixed within Congress, with Republicans and Democrats disagreeing on the propriety of the decision. Several law review articles argued that the use of a \"distortion principle\" to decide violations of free speech was an unreasonable and unconstitutional rule whose conditions on funding might \"distort\" speech advocacy; others contended that the Court mishandled the interpretation of the statute at issue.\n\nThe first major test of the federal government's power over funding restrictions based on speech was the 1991 case \"Rust v. Sullivan\". In \"Rust\", the Supreme Court upheld a restriction on the use of Department of Health and Human Services funds for counseling, referring patients to, or advocating the use of abortion services. The Court reasoned that the restriction at issue \"merely [chose] to fund one activity to the exclusion of the other.\" Here, the government was using private speakers to transmit information pertaining to the government's own program.\n\nSix years later, the Court reviewed another restriction, this time concerning funding restrictions imposed by a public university. In the 1997 case \"Rosenberger v. University of Virginia\", a government supported university sought to withhold funds from religious student publications despite funding similar secular publications. While the Court said the government could seek to shape funding to support a government message, such restrictive steps could not be imposed to the exclusion of a particular viewpoint.\n\nIn 1974 the United States Congress passed the Legal Services Corporation Act, which established the LSC. The purpose of the act was to provide government-funded legal aid to indigent clients, funded through grants to regional entities throughout the country. In 1996 Congress amended the act with that year's appropriations bill, imposing restrictions on the LSC. These restrictions included prohibitions against filing class action lawsuits, providing legal assistance to immigrants in particular types of cases, collecting attorney's fees, soliciting clients, providing advocacy training programs and attempting to reform welfare laws. The restrictions affected only a small portion of the caseload. The restrictions prohibited funding cases:\n\n... initiating legal representation or participating in any other way, in litigation, lobbying, or rulemaking, involving an effort to reform a Federal or State welfare system, except that this paragraph shall not be construed to preclude a recipient from representing an individual eligible client who is seeking specific relief from a welfare agency if such relief does not involve an effort to amend or otherwise challenge existing welfare law in effect on the date of the initiation of the representation.\n\nIn 1997, Carmen Velazquez lost welfare benefits from the government under the provisions of the Temporary Assistance for Needy Families Act (TANF). An attorney from an LSC grantee, Bronx Legal Services, litigated her claim. Bronx Legal Services, on behalf of Velazquez, filed suit in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of New York seeking a declaration that the provision of the act prohibiting challenges to existing welfare law was unconstitutional under the First Amendment. It argued that there was no way to help Velazquez without challenging the welfare system itself, and sought to challenge the provisions of TANF under which Velazquez lost her benefits; a challenge they could not make due to the 1996 restrictions. The district court denied an injunction.\n\nThe court's decision was affirmed in part and reversed in part by the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. The Second Circuit unanimously held that the welfare-advocacy restriction was unconstitutional, but upheld other restrictions that Bronx Legal Services had challenged (such as the lobbying restriction) by a 2–1 vote. The Second Circuit also rejected the claim that \"any\" funding conditions would be illegitimate, instead preferring a restriction-by-restriction analysis. The national LSC asked the Supreme Court for review by petitioning for a writ of certiorari, arguing that the Second Circuit was wrong in striking down the welfare-advocacy restriction.\n\nThe Supreme Court heard oral arguments in the case on October 4, 2000, issuing its decision four months later.\n\nThe Court affirmed the decision of the Second Circuit Court of Appeals, holding that the restriction on pursuing welfare advocacy was unconstitutional under the First Amendment by a vote of 5–4.\n\nJustice Kennedy delivered the majority opinion. It distinguished a 1991 Supreme Court case, \"Rust v. Sullivan\", which upheld a prohibition on federally funded family planning services from discussing abortion with their patients. The majority reasoned that in \"Rust\" the government was attempting to use its funds to express its own message, but the purpose of the act was to promote a diversity of private views with its funding; not an attempt to restrict any views. The Court said that the government can only issue \"content-neutral\" conditions on such speech, and that the specific prohibition on welfare-reform litigation was viewpoint-based, as it restricted \"only\" support for welfare-reform advocacy. \"If the restriction on speech and legal advice were to stand, the result would be two tiers of cases ... there would be lingering doubt whether the truncated representation had resulted in complete analysis of the case, full advice to the client, and proper presentation to the court.\"\n\nThe Court also criticized the fact that the restriction functionally barred attorneys from participating in the courts. Any attorney receiving LSC funding would not be able to litigate welfare claims that challenged welfare rules, thereby preventing certain cases from being filed. \"The restriction imposed by the statute here threatens severe impairment of the judicial function ... We must be vigilant when Congress imposes rules and conditions which, in effect, insulate its own laws from legitimate judicial challenge.\"\n\nJustice Scalia dissented from the decision of the Court, due to the belief that \"Rust\" mandated a ruling upholding the restriction. Chief Justice William H. Rehnquist and Associate Justices Sandra Day O'Connor and Clarence Thomas joined the dissent. Scalia wrote, \"The [act] is a federal subsidy program, not a federal regulatory program ... regulations directly restrict speech; subsidies do not.\" He disagreed with the majority's contention that there was viewpoint discrimination, arguing that no specific viewpoint was restricted. Scalia was also concerned with dicta within the majority opinion that seemed to him to indicate a \"fondness\" for the concept of reform through the courts. His dissent argued that the majority's holding was \"unprecedented\" because it was the first time the government would be limited in advocating its own message.\n\nThe immediate reaction was mixed among members of Congress. Democratic supporters of the ruling were optimistic of future victories against funding restrictions, stating that, while they were glad the restriction fell, \"[the decision] opens the LSC up to even more attacks\". Republicans in Congress condemned the decision, agreeing to work against it. Representative Steve Largent (R-OK) said, \"It'll be on the radar screen for sure ... Why are we giving taxpayer money to sue taxpayers?\" The \"New York Times\" described the decision as the end of the \"latest chapter, although almost certainly not the last, in a long political struggle over the federally financed program of civil legal services for the poor.\"\n\nParties involved in the case also had mixed reactions. The Legal Services Corporation, which had sought to protect the restrictions, said it would \"immediately review [their] regulations and then modify them to adhere to the Court's ruling\", which it did quickly after the decision. Burt Neuborne, the lawyer who argued against the restriction before the Supreme Court, said the ruling \"really reads like a First Amendment textbook\".\n\nIn the weeks following the \"Velazquez\" decision, the Supreme Court rejected appeals related to other LSC restrictions. LSC has engaged in welfare-reform litigation since the original injunction was lifted.\n\nThe case provided the basis for other challenges to restrictions imposed on LSC, such as bans against lobbying or class action. These challenges were rejected by the Ninth Circuit and the Second Circuit in separate suits. The challenges failed because the relevant provisions do not regulate a specific type of advocacy; for example, the restriction on LSC grantees from collecting attorney's fees would not raise a speech issue because there is no speech involved in such a process. The argument raised in these challenges was that the Court articulated a new \"conditions\" principle in \"Velazquez\"—a distortion-of-speech test—which, they argued, would require the restrictions to be struck down. Both courts of appeal reviewing this claim have rejected this reading of \"Velazquez\". Instead of a distortion-of-speech test, the decision was based on the application of limited public forum principles: when the government provides funds to an entity, and this funding's purpose was to encourage a \"diversity\" of private views, it must act in a viewpoint-neutral way. Programs funded in this manner are treated as a public forum, where the ability of the government to restrict speech is highly limited.\n\nThe implications of these subsequent rulings mandated two new rules, one narrow and one broad. First, restrictions may be imposed on LSC so long as they do not discriminate on the basis of \"viewpoint\" or \"opinion\". Because the other restrictions were not based on viewpoint, they were upheld. Second, on a broader scale the government may not discriminate against viewpoints in \"any\" instance where it is funding a private entity to promote a diversity of views. For this reason, the decision in \"Velazquez\" set an important precedent for how the government may act as subsidizer and speaker.\n\nA \"Journal of Law and Politics\" article was critical of the decision, criticizing the Court's claimed distinction between the speech restriction in \"Rust\" and the one on the Legal Services Corporation and contending that there was no functional difference between the two. The article highlighted a problem with the Court's interpretation of the statute's purpose at hand, stating: \"Even assuming the propriety of invoking legislative purpose in statutory interpretation, the text of the [Act] does not support the Court's understanding of the Act's purpose.\" The article noted that, although the Court looked at a section of the Act discussing attorneys \"protecting the best interest of their clients\", the same section noted that the program must be free of \"political pressures\". Because a factor in the Court's reasoning was its understanding of the Act's purpose, this alleged error purportedly misguided the rest of the Court's analysis.\n\nFurther criticism from the article was that the Court unduly rested its decision on a separation of powers determination. The Court held in \"Velazquez\" that the restriction on welfare advocacy cases disrupted the \"vital relationship between the bar and the judiciary\". This finding, the article argued, is baseless because there is no connection between preventing some government lawyers from arguing a single point and the deprivation of due process rights. It concluded that the fundamental problems of statutory interpretation and a lack of a credible distinction with \"Rust\" in Justice Kennedy's analysis renders the opinion \"unconvincing\".\n\nAn article in the \"Maryland Law Review\" authored by Christopher Gozdor (a lawyer in the Maryland Attorney General's office) was also critical of the decision, although he was concerned instead with an alleged lack of clarity in the majority opinion. It discussed the case law relating to government speech and examined what it described as the \"conditions doctrine\", where certain conditions on receiving federal funds were upheld or struck down. The article then turned to the \"Rust\" distinction. Gozdor explained: \"The Court distinguished \"Velazquez\" from \"Rust\" because \"Rust\" involved a subsidy to facilitate private expression \"of the government's message\", while \"Velazquez\" involved LSC funding that was designed [for] private speech.\" The critical question for the court was the characterization of the speech that the law promoted. Because advocacy by LSC grantees to change welfare laws was not in advance of the government's own message, the restriction placed on it essentially prohibited a form of private speech. The relationship, Gozdor asserted, that the Court set forth was that the restriction \"distorted\" private speech. This \"distortion principle\" was the main criticism of the article (as was Scalia's dissent). Gozdor, agreeing with Scalia's dissent, wrote that the restriction did not create such a distortion of private speech because Congress had still permitted LSC to form affiliate organizations which would be considered \"legally separate\". Notwithstanding the difficulty of an organization to classify itself as an \"affiliate entity\" of LSC, Gozdor argued that there was no real prevention of speech when there were ample alternative means of relaying the message.\n\nFurther, in attacking the distortion principle's application, Gozdor also argued against the principle as a legal concept in the first place. He wrote, \"Regardless of the Court's rationale for its distortion principle, determining a First Amendment violation by measuring whether the government used a subsidy 'in ways which distorted the medium's usual functioning' suggests that forum functions become unchangeable once created.\" He claimed the unworkability of the distortion principle in a hypothetical example, which would moot the very existence of the Legal Services Corporation. \"Taking the \"Velazquez\" rationale to its logical ends\", he wrote, \"the LSC subsidy itself could become an unconstitutional speech restriction. If Congress substantially increased LSC appropriations in order to allow LSC to take all of its cases ... the functioning of the legal system would be distorted because such a subsidy likely would result in a dramatic increase in the federal courts' caseloads.\" With this in mind, he concluded with a process by which the Court should have decided the case: a process leading to the upholding of the restriction by finding that LSC's purpose was in promoting the government's message, in contrast to a diversity of private views.\n\nAn article in the \"North Carolina Law Review\" argued that Kennedy's majority opinion wrongly set forth the understanding of the role of an attorney. The author, Jessica Sharpe, criticized the Court's thesis that the role of the attorney is that of an advocate such that a restriction on the attorney served as a direct restriction of advocacy. This rationale, Sharpe argued, could undermine the balance of abortion restrictions because state regulations on abortion access also could be seen as an intrusion into doctor–patient speech. Because \"Velazquez\" \"blurred\" this distinction, the privileged nature of doctor–patient conversations could be subjected to future regulations and limitations.\n\n"}
{"id": "17420653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17420653", "title": "Liturgical book", "text": "Liturgical book\n\nA liturgical book, or service book, is a book published by the authority of a church body that contains the text and directions for the liturgy of its official religious services.\n\nIn the Roman Rite of the Catholic Church, the primary liturgical books are the Roman Missal, which contains the texts of the Mass, and the Roman Breviary, which contains the text of the Liturgy of the Hours. With the 1969 reform of the Roman Missal by Pope Paul VI, now called the \"Ordinary Use of the Roman Rite\", the Scriptual readings were expanded considerably, requiring a separate book, known as the Lectionary. The Roman Ritual contains the texts of the sacraments other than the Mass, such as baptism, the sacrament of penance, the anointing of the sick, and the sacrament of marriage. The texts for the sacraments and ceremonies only performed by bishops, such as confirmation and Holy Orders, are contained within the Roman Pontifical. The \"Caeremoniale Episcoporum\" (\"The Ceremonial of Bishops\") describes in greater detail than the ordinary liturgical books the ceremonies involved when a bishop presides over the celebration of Mass, the celebration of the Liturgy of the Hours or of the Word of God, particular Masses such as Candlemas, Palm Sunday or the Easter Vigil, the other sacraments, sacramentals, pastoral visitations etc. The Roman Martyrology gives an account of all the saints (not only martyrs) commemorated in the Church each day.\n\nOther Roman-Rite liturgical books include the Roman Gradual and the Gospel Book or Evangeliary.\n\nThe Catholic Church is composed of 23 Autonomous particular churches, the largest of which is the Latin or Western Church. The other 22 churches, are collectively called The Eastern Catholic Church, and use a variety of liturgical rites such as the Alexandrian Rite, Antiochene Rite, Armenian Rite, Byzantine Rite, and the East Syriac Rite among others.\nWhile the Roman Rite of the Western Church is by far the most common liturgical rite found within the Latin Church, a number of local Western (but not Roman) rites and uses also exist.\n\nThe Rite of Constantinople, observed by the Orthodox Church and those Eastern Catholic Churches which follow the Byzantine Rite, represents one of the most highly developed liturgical traditions in Christendom. While the Roman Catholic Liturgy of the Hours may be published in a single-volume breviary, such a feat is hardly possible for the Byzantine Rite, which requires quite a large library of books to chant the daily services.\n\nThe regular services chanted in the Constantinopolitan liturgical tradition are the Canonical Hours and the Divine Liturgy. There are, in addition, occasional services (baptism, confession, etc.) and intercessory or devotional services (molieben, panikhida), which are not chanted on a daily basis, but according to need. The fixed portions of the services are called \"acolouthia\" (Greek: \"akolouthies\", ; Slavonic: \"posledovanie\"), into which the \"sequences\" (changeable portions) are inserted. The sequences can also be referred to as \"propers\"\n\nThe sequences are governed by the convergence of several liturgical cycles, including the Paschal Cycle (movable cycle, dependent upon the variable date of Easter) and the Menaion (fixed cycle, dependent upon the calendar date).\n\nThe fixed portions of the services are found in the following liturgical books:\n\n\nInto this fixed framework, numerous movable parts of the service are inserted. These are taken from a variety of liturgical books:\n\n\n\nThere are many different editions of these books which have been published over the years in a variety of liturgical languages. In Greek the Orthodox books are published at the Phœnix Press (formerly located in Venice, now at Patras), the Uniate books are published by the Congregation for the Oriental Churches. Each national Church has further its own editions in its liturgical language. There are also books of all kinds which collect and arrange materials from the list of books above into compendiums by various editors. The Uniate compendiums have a natural tendency to imitate the arrangement of the Roman books.\n\nThe books of the Church of the East, all in Syriac, are the Liturgy (containing their three liturgies), the Gospel (Evangelion), Apostle (Shlicha) and Lessons (Kariane), the \"Turgama\" (Interpretation), containing hymns sung by deacons at the liturgy (our Graduals and Sequences), the David (Dawidha = Psalter), \"Khudhra\" (= \"cycle\", containing antiphons, responsories, hymns, and collects for all Sundays), \"Kash Kõl\" (= \"Collection of all\"; the same chants for week-days), \"Kdham u-Wathar\" (= \"Before and after\"; certain prayers, psalms, and collects most often used, from the other books), \"Gezza\" (\"Treasury\", services for feast-days), Abu-Halim (the name of the compiler, containing collects for the end of the Nocturns on Sundays), \"Bautha d'Ninwaie\" (= \"Prayer of the Ninevites\", a collection of hymns ascribed to St. Ephrem the Syrian, used in Lent). The Baptism Office (\"Taksa d'Amadha\") is generally bound up with the Liturgies. The \"Taksa d'Siamidha\" has the ordination services. The \"Taksa d'Husaia\" contains the office for Penance, the \"Kthawa d'Burrakha\" is the marriage service, the \"Kahneita\", the burial of clergy, the \"Annidha\" that of laymen. Lastly the \"Khamis\" and \"Warda\" are further collections of hymns (see Badger, \"The Nestorians and their Rituals\", London, 1852, II, 16–25). Naturally not every church possesses this varied collection of books. The most necessary ones are printed by the Anglican missionaries at Urmi for the \"Nestorian\" Christians. The Chaldean Catholic books are printed, some at Propaganda, some by the Dominicans at Mosul (\"Missale chaldaicum\", 1845; \"Manuale Sacerdotum\", 1858; \"Breviarium chaldaicum\", 1865). A Chaldean \"Breviary\" was published in three vohunes at Paris in 1886–7, edited by Père Bedgan, a missionary of the Congrégation des Missions. The Malabar Christians deemed heretics by Rome use the traditional books of the Church of the East, and the \"Uniate\" Chaldean Catholics have books revised (much Latinized) by the Synod of Diamper (1599; it ordered all their old books to be burned). The Malabar Catholic \"Missal\" was published at Rome in 1774, the \"Ordo rituum et lectionum\" in 1775.\n\nThe Coptic Books (in Coptic with Arabic rubrics, and generally with the text transliterated in Arabic characters too) are the Euchologion (\"Kitãb al-Khulagi almuqaddas\"), very often (but quite wrongly) called Missal. This corresponds to the Byzantine Euchologion. The Coptic equivalent of the Horologion is the \"Agpeya\". Then the Lectionary called \"Katamãrus\"; the \"Synaksãr\", containing legends of saints; the \"Deacon's Manual\"; an Antiphonary (called \"Difnãri\"); the Psalter, Theotokia (containing offices of the Virgin Mary); Doxologia; collections of hymns for the choir and a number of smaller books for the various other offices.\n\nThe Coptic Orthodox Church has a very sumptuously printed set of their books, edited by Gladios Labib, published at Cairo (\"Katamãrus\", 1900–2; \"Euchologion\", 1904; \"Funeral Service\", 1905).\n\nThese books were first grouped and arranged for the Coptic Catholic Church by Raphael Tuki, and printed at Rome in the eighteenth century. Their arrangement is obviously an imitation of that of the Latin service-books (\"Missale coptice et arabice\", 1736; \"Diurnum alexandrinum copto-arabicum\", 1750; \"Pontificale et Euchologium\", 1761, 1762; \"Rituale coptice et arabice\", 1763; \"Theotokia\", 1764). Cyril II, the Uniate Coptic patriarch, published a \"missal\", \"ritual\", and \"Holy Week book\" (Cairo, 1898–1902).\n\nThe Ethiopian service books are, with the exception of the Eucharistic Liturgy (the Missal), the least known of any. Hardly anything of them has been published, and no one seems yet to have made a systematic investigation of liturgical manuscripts in Abyssinia. Since the Ethiopic or Ge'ez Rite is derived from the Coptic, their books correspond more or less to the Coptic books.\n\nPeter the Ethiopian (Petrus Ethyops) published the Liturgy with the baptism service and some blessings at the end of his edition of the Ethiopic New Testament (Tasfa Sion, Rome, 1548). Various students have published fragments of the Rite in Europe (cf. Chaine, \"Grammaire éthiopienne\", Beirut, 1907; bibliography, p. 269), but these can hardly be called service-books.\n\nThe Syriac Orthodox (Jacobite) and Catholic-Syrian liturgical books have never been published as a whole. A fragment of the liturgy was published in Syriac and Latin at Antwerp (1572) by Fabricius Boderianus (D. Seven alexandrini . . . de ritibus baptismi et sacræ Synaxis).\n\nThe Syrian Catholics have a Euchologion (Syriac and Karshuni), published at Rome in 1843 (Missale Syriacum), and a \"Book of clerks used in the ecclesiastical ministries\" (Liber ministerii, Syriac only, Beirut, 1888). The Divine Office, collected like a Breviary, was published at Mosul in seven volumes (1886–96), the ferial office alone at Rome in 1853, and at Sharfi in the Lebanon (1898). A Ritual – \"Book of Ceremony\" – for the Syrian Uniats is issued by the Jesuits at Beirut.\n\nThe Maronites have an abundance of liturgical books for their divine liturgy. The Maronite Synod at Deir al-Luweize (1736) committed a uniform preparation of all their books to the patriarch (Part II, Sess. I, xiii, etc.) These books are all referred to in Western or Latin terms (Missal, Ritual, Pontifical, etc.). The Missal (in this case the name is not incorrect) was published at Rome in 1592 and 1716, since then repeatedly, in whole or in part, at Beirut. Little books containing the Ordinary of the Liturgy with the Anaphora commonly used are issued by many Catholic booksellers at Beirut. The \"Book of the Minister\" (containing the deacon's and other ministers' parts of the Liturgy) was published at Rome in 1596 and at Beirut in 1888. The \"Ferial Office\", called Fard, \"Burden\" or \"Duty\" (the only one commonly used by the clergy), was issued at Rome in 1890, at Beirut in 1900. The whole Divine Office began to be published at Rome in 1666, but only two volumes of the summer part appeared. A Ritual with various additional prayers was issued at Rome in 1839. All Maronite books are in Syriac and Karshuni.\n\nThe Armenian Liturgical Books are quite definitely drawn up, arranged, and authorized. They are the only other set among Eastern Churches whose arrangement can be compared to those of the Byzantines. There are eight official Armenian service-books:\n\nThe books of both the Armenian Apostolic Church (Oriental-Orthodox) and Armenian Catholic Church have been published a great number of times; the latest Orthodox editions are those of Constantinople and Jerusalem, the Catholic ones have been issued at Rome, Vienna, and especially Venice (at the Monastery of San Lazaro). There are many extracts from them, especially from the Liturgy.\n\nIn the wake of the English Reformation, a reformed liturgy was introduced into the Church of England. The first liturgical book published for general use throughout the church was the Book of Common Prayer of 1549, edited by Thomas Cranmer, Archbishop of Canterbury.\n\nThe work of 1549 was the first prayer book to contain the forms of service for daily and Sunday worship in English and to do so within a single volume; it included morning prayer, evening prayer, the Litany, and Holy Communion. The book included the other occasional services in full: the orders for baptism, confirmation, marriage, 'prayers to be said with the sick' and a funeral service. It set out in full the Epistle and Gospel readings for the Sunday Communion Service. Set Old Testament and New Testament readings for daily prayer were specified in tabular format as were the set Psalms; and canticles, mostly biblical, that were provided to be sung between the readings. Numerous editions have followed, and currently throughout the Anglican Communion, various Books of Common Prayer are published by the different Anglican provinces.\n\nOther official books are published by the member churches for the official use of their churches, such as the Lectionary, \"Book of Occasional Services\", etc.\n\nIn the late 1800s, as part of the Anglo-Catholic movement, the Anglican Missal was published, to provide a particular way, drawn from the Sarum Use, of celebrating the Eucharist according to Anglican liturgical tradition. Many Anglo-Catholic parishes use the \"Anglican Missal\", or some variation of it such as the English Missal, for the celebration of the Eucharist. Variations include the \"Anglican Service Book\" and \"A Manual of Anglo-Catholic Devotion\", and the directive books \"A Priest's Handbook\" by Dennis Michno and \"Ceremonies of the Eucharist\" by Howard E. Galley. All of these books (with the exception of \"Manual\") are intended primarily for celebration of the Eucharist. They contain meditations for the presiding celebrant(s) during the liturgy, and other material such as the rite for the blessing of palms on Palm Sunday, propers for special feast days, and instructions for proper ceremonial order. These books are used as a more expansively Catholic context in which to celebrate the liturgical use found in the Book of Common Prayer and related liturgical books.\n\nMartin Luther was in favor of preserving the Mass of the Church and, other than translating it into the vernacular language of the people, he made very few changes to the liturgy. Over the centuries since the days of the Reformation, the many diverging branches of Lutheran denominations – despite developing a wide swath of differing core beliefs, have maintained and cherished the liturgy and its ancient roots. Owing to its widespread diaspora of branches, and especially because of the wide variety of regional languages, customs, and beliefs, there have been many different books of Worship prepared and used by congregations worldwide.\n\nBesides the formal litugy itself, Lutheran worship books usually contain the orders for the minor services during the week, such as Vespers, Morning Prayer, and Compline, along with large sections of hymns, Psalms, and prayers and other needed information for the correct following of the liturgical calendar.\n\nOne particular Lutheran hymnal, used by the Moderate/Liberal Evangelical Lutheran Church in America, the largest Lutheran denomination in the U.S., is Evangelical Lutheran Worship. The ELW (as it is called) is also used by a few smaller denominations as well, but is mostly frowned upon by more conservative Lutheran bodies, which use their own versions.\n\nJohn Wesley, the Anglican priest who was a principal leader of the early Methodist revival, wrote that When the Methodists in America were separated from the Church of England because of the American Revolution, John Wesley himself provided a revised version of The Book of Common Prayer called the \"Sunday Service of the Methodists in North America\". Wesley's \"Sunday Service\" has shaped the official liturgies of the Methodists ever since. For this reason, Methodist liturgy is clearly Anglican in its character, though Methodists have generally allowed for more flexibility and freedom in how the liturgy is celebrated than is typical of Anglican churches.\n\nToday, the primary liturgical books of the United Methodist Church are \"The United Methodist Hymnal\" and \"The United Methodist Book of Worship\", along with their non-English counterparts. These worship books contain the liturgies of the church that are generally derived from Wesley's \"Sunday Service\" and from the 20th Century liturgical renewal movement. They also contain the hymnody of the Church, which has always been an important part of Methodist worship.\n\nDirectory for Public Worship\n\n"}
{"id": "55653565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55653565", "title": "Lizq", "text": "Lizq\n\nLizq is an archaeological site in Ash Sharqiyah, Oman. Located on a mountain lying in a plain, 1000 m south-east of the south-eastern edge of the Lizq palm garden, the fort dates to the Lizq-Rumaylah/Early Iron Age.\n\nThe site was discovered in 1979, the result of the archaeological exploration of Gerd Weisgerber of the German Mining Museum (\"Deutsches Bergbau-Museum\") in Bochum. Shaikh Hamdan al-Harthy of Samad led Weisgerber to the site. In 1981 a single season long German archaeological team mapped and conducted minimal rescue excavation. They did an ad hoc restoration of the stairs which lead up the northern face of the mountain. Since there are several sites near Lizq town, the fort is disambiguated as 'L1'.\n\nThe Lizq fort owes its existence to the reliable occurrence of water at a natural causeway at the southern side of the central mountains. The main fort on the western mountain peak is some 175 m wide and has a surface of more than 20.000 m2 in surface area. This makes it the largest Early Iron Age fort in central Oman. The location of the Iron Age village associated with the fort remains unknown. No falaj was discovered.\n\nImportant is Kroll's comparison of the pottery with that of Iron Age Iran.\n\n"}
{"id": "19158788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19158788", "title": "Majorette (dancer)", "text": "Majorette (dancer)\n\nA majorette is a baton twirler whose twirling performance is often accompanied by dance, movement, or gymnastics; they are primarily associated with marching bands during parades. Majorettes can also spin knives, fire knives, flags, light-up batons, rifles, maces and fire batons. They do illusions, cartwheels, and flips, and sometimes twirl up to four batons at a time. Majorettes are often confused with cheerleaders; baton twirling, however, is more closely related to rhythmic gymnastics than to cheerleading.\n\nMajorettes performed originally a typical carnival dance originating in the Rhineland, where the young women who perform this dance are called \"Tanzmariechen\" (Dance Marys) in German or \"Dansmarietjes\" in Dutch.\n\nDuring the carnival the normal form of government is parodied. Also the army and the defense forces were traditionally parodied as a way of protesting against the Prussian occupation of the Rhenish area at the time. In Cologne, these imitations arose in particular to make Prussian militarism look ridiculous. And with a joke army that did just about everything, it would make a normal company look ridiculous.\n\nThe tanzmariechen show clear origins in the camp followers in the 18th and 19th century, and have a vibrant and eventful past. Around this time Germany had a very large number of armies, and there would be young women in each regiment, who served during the day as sellers and providers of food and drink and took on household chores like washing clothes. At the same time, many of these women and girls offered themselves as prostitutes, for which they would dress themselves more provocatively, and they would dance for the soldiers.\n\nAround 1800 more regulations began to emerge in the armies. Slowly these were also applied to the camp followers. Increasingly, the camp follower was a woman who was married to a corporal or private, and whose task it was among other things \"to wash the linen\", according to an old army decision.\nThe camp follower became not a typical army prostitute anymore, but also not a proper married women. Besides caring for the soldiers, she could still continue entertaining them in various ways.\n\nIn the carnival mockery both the officers and the camp followers were depicted. The officer by portraying him as an effeminate, wig-wearing, conceited fool, the camp follower as a woman who was military but provocatively costumed, but also clearly recognizable as a man: the Tanzmarie.\n\nIn the late nineteenth century, the carnival associations found further inspiration in the revue girls that performed in the theater at the time. These were scantily clad young women, accompanied by some military attributes like peak helmets and military backpacks, which showed provocative dances in small groups. The revue girl grew into a nightclub-like star. It can not be denied that the carnival with its Tanzmariechen has popularized and even parodied the sparkling shows that could otherwise be enjoyed only in the major European cities. Young women and girls again took on the role of tanzmariechen instead of men and they performed at the parades during the post-war carnival. A show element was added to carnival, partly because of rapidly evolving ballet education. Majorettes or tanzmariechen began increasingly to act in groups. Some parts of the Prussian military background are sometimes still reflected today in the movements, music or clothing of the majorettes.\n\nThe somewhat slovenly camp follower who accompanied the troops, has evolved into a show dance group, but still inspired by the Prussian army. This metamorphosis went through the intermediate step of the role performed by men as Tanzmarie.\nAlthough the current majorette has her roots in the carnival scene, the associations of majorettes widely break these historical ties, and profile themselves more as a sports or dance club.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3793206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3793206", "title": "Marva Collins", "text": "Marva Collins\n\nMarva Delores Collins (née Knight; August 31, 1936 – June 24, 2015) was an American educator who started Westside Preparatory School in the impoverished Garfield Park neighborhood of Chicago in 1975.\n\nCollins was born in Monroeville, Alabama, to father, Henry Knight, a businessman who owned a funeral home and worked with cattle, and to mother, Bessie Knight (née Nettles). She grew up in Atmore, Alabama, a small town near Mobile, Alabama, during the time of segregation in the American South. When she was young, Collins went to a strict elementary school in a one-room schoolhouse in Atmore, Alabama, an experience which influenced her later in life. She graduated from Clark College (now known as Clark Atlanta University) in Atlanta, Georgia.\n\nCollins taught school for two years in Alabama, then moved to Chicago in 1959, where she taught as a full–time substitute teacher in inner–city Chicago Public Schools system for fourteen years.\n\nDismayed at the low levels of learning that she felt some students were experiencing in particular areas, Collins took $5,000 (a large sum of money at that time) from her own teacher's retirement fund and started a private school in the top floors of the brownstone in the West Garfield Park neighborhood where she lived in 1975.\n\nThe school she started was called Westside Preparatory School. Westside Prep became an educational and commercial success. Collins created her low-cost private school specifically for the purpose of teaching low income black children whom Collins felt that the Chicago Public School System had labeled as being learning disabled. Collins said she had the data to prove that students were teachable and were able to overcome obstacles of learning via her teaching methods, which she said eliminated behavioral issues and allowed students to flourish.\n\nThe one-room schoolhouse of her education influenced her methods. At home her father gave her assignments she believed built her confidence and gave her a sense of responsibility. She felt time spent with students was more valuable than distance-creating audio visual information.\n\nCollins and her daughter ran the school for more than 30 years until it closed in 2008 due to lack of sufficient enrollment and funding.\n\nCollins became well-known due to the 1981 TV movie based on her life's work entitled \"The Marva Collins Story\", starring Cicely Tyson and Morgan Freeman. She also appeared on a featured news article on CBS's \"60 Minutes. \"Cicely Tyson, who played Collins in the TV movie, said she spent time with Collins to research for the role. The \"60 Minutes\" feature was inspired by a 1970s article written by Chicago Sun-Times reporter Zay N. Smith about Collins and Westside Prep.\n\nIn 1982, Kevin Ross, a 23–year-old Creighton University basketball player, got to his senior year of college without being able to read. With the assistance of a Creighton booster, Ross enrolled in second grade at Westside Prep. With private tutoring by Collins, Ross learned how to read and graduated in May 1983. Ross had difficulties continuing his education, but when he had serious troubles, Collins was instrumental in helping him.\n\nDue to the success of her teaching methods, it was reported that President Ronald Reagan wanted to nominate Collins to the position of Secretary of Education, but Collins took herself out of the running for the position. In 1983, Reagan cited Collins during an unveiling of a national program to combat adult illiteracy. She was also asked by president George H. W. Bush to become Secretary of Education, but she declined in favor of teaching one student at a time. In 1994, Prince featured Collins in his music video for \"The Most Beautiful Girl in the World.\" He also donated $500,000 to the Westside Preparatory School Teacher Training Institute, which was created to teach Collins' teaching methodology.\n\nIn 1996, Collins was hired to supervise three Chicago public schools that had been placed on probation. In 2004, Collins received a National Humanities Medal, among many awards for her teaching and efforts at school reform. During the 2006–07 school year, Collins' school charged $5,500 for tuition, and parents said the school did a much better job than the Chicago public school system, which budgeted $11,300 per student. The authorities complained that this was not enough.\n\nCollins was known for applying classical education, in particular the Socratic method, modified for use in primary schools, successfully with impoverished students. Collins criticized the teaching of the students, not the students themselves. She wrote a number of manuals, books and motivational tracts describing her history and methods.\n\nIn 1982 and in subsequent articles, Collins has been criticized by George N. Schmidt from \"Substance News,\" who claims that Collins' work was fraudulent. Collins denied any fraud. At the time, Collins had both supporters and detractors.\n\nCollins married Clarence Collins in September 1960. She had two sons (Patrick and Eric) and one daughter (Cynthia). Collins died on June 24, 2015 in Beaufort County, South Carolina, aged 78, while in hospice care.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21127120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21127120", "title": "Mutiny on the Amistad", "text": "Mutiny on the Amistad\n\nMutiny on the Amistad: The Saga of a Slave Revolt and Its Impact on American Abolition, Law, and Diplomacy (1987) is a history of a notable slave mutiny of 1839 and its aftermath, written by professor Howard Jones.\n\nThe book explores the events surrounding the slave mutiny on the Spanish schooner \"La Amistad\" in 1839. The ship was taken into United States custody off the south coast of Long Island, New York. The book discusses the roles and international dynamics of the case, involving Spain, England, and the United States as they related to the 19th-century slave trade. It examines United States v. The Amistad Africans 40 U.S. (15 Pet.) 518 (1841), the United States Supreme Court case that adjudicated the property issues and ultimately the fate of the Mende people who were held captive on \"Amistad\" and the ownership of the vessel.\n\nThe book is by Howard Jones, a historian at the University of Alabama, and published in New York by Oxford University Press.\n\nIn his review published in \"Civil War History,\" Dudley T. Cornish noted that in 1965, the historian Samuel Eliot Morison described the \"Amistad\" case of 1839 as \"the most famous involving slavery,\" until it was \"eclipsed by the Dred Scott decision.\" Cornish wrote that Jones' work was \"a careful, comprehensive study\" that should make it easy to restore references to the case in textbooks, where it had been overlooked in the prior decade.\n\nThe 1997 film \"Amistad\", directed by Steven Spielberg, is based on this book, including the Supreme Court case. It stars Anthony Hopkins as John Quincy Adams, Morgan Freeman as an American abolitionist, Djimon Hounsou as Cinqué, leader of the slaves; and Matthew McConaughey as Roger Sherman Baldwin, the lawyer to the Mende captives.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1499717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1499717", "title": "Myth of redemptive violence", "text": "Myth of redemptive violence\n\nThe Myth of Redemptive Violence is an archetypal plot in literature, especially in imperial cultures. One of the oldest versions of this story is the creation myth of Babylon (the Enûma Elish) from around 1250 B.C. Walter Wink coined the term as part of an analysis of its impact on modern culture and its role in maintaining oppressive power structures in his book \"The Powers That Be\".\n\nWhile contrasting the Enûma Elish with the Genesis creation myth found in the Book of Genesis, Wink examines the psychological effects of each phase of the story. He asserts that every phase of the narrative serves to reinforce the ideology of the status quo and convince us to perpetuate the ruling power structure:\n\nThe primacy of Tiamat suggests that chaos and evil are the original and natural state of the universe. This can be used to convince us to fear and oppose any threat to the current order, under the assumption that things can only get worse. Superheroes especially have dark origins (for example, the murder of Bruce Wayne's parents and the destruction of planet Krypton), and the pervasiveness of evil is depicted by the resurrection of villains in horror movies and cartoons, the exaggerated presence of violent crime in news coverage, and the overwhelming number and variety of bad creatures in The Lord of the Rings.\n\nTiamat and her allies oppress the other gods, who, at first, seem powerless to resist. This acknowledges the effectiveness of alternative systems, and gives us the guilty pleasure of vicariously harming our \"betters\" and breaking their rules. However, all this is constrained by the exaggerated flaws of the antagonists, which foreshadow their failure and make us ashamed to identify with them. Horror films tend to emphasize this part of the narrative to the extreme, whereas superhero stories often marginalize it.\n\nMarduk offers to defeat Tiamat in exchange for absolute rule over the remaining gods, and they all agree. This elevates \"might makes right\" to a contract made at the beginning of the universe. People are inclined to identify with the hero because of his privileges and his good attributes, and to sympathize with any subsequent oppression. Modern examples include James Bond's license to kill, the gold mine given to Doc Savage's father, Friday's loyalty to Robinson Crusoe, the brazen dishonesty of Jedi knights, the extremes of Jack Bauer, etc.\n\nMarduk slays his enemies in creative, gory, and intricate ways, then goes on to enslave their underlings. This shows that good prevails and evil suffers; the corollary to this is that those who prevail are good. This gives us the catharsis of vengeance and indignation. Once again we can sadistically enjoy a character's suffering, but this time in a sanctioned, acceptable context. The spectacular downfall and glorious victory prompt us to reject the antagonist and reaffirm our commitment to the winning party, respectively. Action movies and video games tend to have a decisive final battle. An opposition leader's death scene often includes ridiculously thorough destruction of his or her body, property, and/or organization, such as Dr. No drowning in the core of his nuclear reactor, which then melts down.\n\nMarduk makes the world from Tiamat's corpse and humanity from the blood of Kingu. This leaves us with the message that our prosperity and even our very existence required past violence and destruction; as Wink puts it, \"We are the outcome of deicide.\" This helps justify recent and ongoing violence by appealing to our self-interest. The death or defeat of the antagonist tends to be immediately followed by an idyllic happy ending in simple, violent plots of all stripes. Current examples include the Ewok percussion instrument made from Storm Trooper and other Imperial helmets (or heads) at the end of Return of the Jedi, and the brain surgery Doc Savage uses to turn criminals into productive citizens.\n\nTraditionally, anthropologists have noted that myths transmit elements of culture and shape the listener's worldview without making value judgments as to the merit of a given culture or the validity of its worldview. Wink's analysis is predicated on the notion that Babylonian society and pagan religion, as well as Western society and popular culture, are intrinsically less valid than his notion of first century Christian society and \"pure\" monotheism.\n\nIt has also been postulated that the creation story of Genesis was developed in reaction to earlier stories, including the Enûma Elish, since the stories share common elements that other creation beliefs lack. Adherents of meme theory see the similarity as more fundamental: each story advocates a certain power structure, which has led people in power to support the story that favors them, often oppressively and often using violence. Whether or not a myth directly advocates violence and oppression, it may still foster misery and destruction.\n\nThe Tale of Two Brothers is an ancient Egyptian story from around the 13th century BCE. The narrative is preserved on the Papyrus D'Orbiney. [Tale of Two Brothers] which had belonged to Seti II (1209-1205 B.C.) of the nineteenth Egyptian dynasty when he was crown prince [William Matthew Flinders Petrie, Egyptian Tales: Translated from the Papyri, 1895, p. 66 ] and may have been a political satire based in part on his own difficulties with his half brother, the usurper Amenmesse[J. H. Breasted Ancient Records of Egypt, Part Three, §§ 239ff. ], but the historical facts concerning this period are so uncertain as to render such a conclusion speculative. The text has similarities to the story of Joseph in the house of Potiphar, in Genesis 39:1-20, however the relation between the two texts is unclear, if, indeed, there is one.[Shaw, Ian. & Nicholson, Paul. The Dictionary of Ancient Egypt, p. 54. The British Museum Press, 1995] Further elements of the story seem to be derived from the myths concerning Osiris' death and resurrection.[Erman, Adolph. Life in Ancient Egypt. p. 379. Dover Publications, 1971. ] The protagonists Anpu and Bata both bear names of gods of the 17th nome of Upper Egypt.\n\nBata lives with his married brother Anpu. One day, when Anpu is not at home, his wife tries to seduce Bata, and, having been repelled, accuses Bata of having made advances towards her. Anpu grows angry and wants to kill his younger brother who flees. Pre-Harakhte saves him by creating a body of water full of crocodiles between him and his brother. Bata tells his brother what has occurred and, as proof of his sincerity, cuts off his genitals which are swallowed by a fish. Anpu returns home and kills his wife. Bata lives alone in the wilderness until the gods create a wife for him. Bata loves her very much and reveals to her that his heart is hidden in a pine. Pharaoh, on learning of her existence has her brought to his court. She tells him Bata's secret and he has the pine cut down, killing Bata. Anpu goes to look for his brother, and after finding his body he searches for his heart and finds it after years of searching. Bata is revived and wants to take revenge on his wife. He changes himself into a beautiful bull and his brother takes him to Pharaoh. Bata reveals himself to his wife who has him killed. Two drops of his blood are spilled and from them grow two persea trees, incarnations of Bata. His wife has them felled, but a splinter of their wood enters her mouth, she swallows it and becomes pregnant. She gives birth to a boy, a reincarnation of Bata, who is acknowledged as the Pharaoh's heir. When Pharaoh dies and he becomes king, he has the queen tried and killed.\n• P. D'Orbiney (P. Brit. Mus. 10183), written towards the end of the 19th dynasty by the scribe Ennana.[Lichtheim, Ancient Egyptian Literature, vol.2, 1980, p. 203 ] It was acquired by the British Museum in 1857.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11057153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11057153", "title": "Not on Our Watch", "text": "Not on Our Watch\n\nNot On Our Watch: The Mission to End Genocide in Darfur and Beyond is a book co-authored by actor Don Cheadle and human rights activist and co-founder of the Enough Project, John Prendergast.\n\nA \"New York Times\" bestseller, the book discusses the situation in Sudan's Darfur region and other cases of mass atrocities. The book outlines ways in which ordinary citizens can take action to end ongoing tragedies in Darfur, northern Uganda, the Democratic Republic of Congo and elsewhere. Holocaust Survivor Elie Wiesel contributed with a foreword, and then-Senator Barack Obama and Senator Sam Brownback wrote the book's introduction. A European/UK edition of the book was published by Maverick House Publishers in August 2007.\n\nA portion of the proceeds are being donated to the Enough Project, a joint initiative of the International Crisis Group and the Center for American Progress to abolish genocide and mass atrocities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11189631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11189631", "title": "Petrosphere", "text": "Petrosphere\n\nIn archaeology, a petrosphere (from Greek πέτρα (\"petra\"), \"stone\", and σφαῖρα (\"sphaira\"), \"ball\") is the name for any spherical man-made object of any size that is composed of stone. These mainly prehistoric artifacts may have been created or selected, but altered in some way to perform their specific function, including carving and painting.\n\nSeveral classes of petrospheres exist, such as the stone spheres of Costa Rica; painted pebbles from Scotland; stone charms from Scotland; sandstone balls from such sites as Traprain Law; the Carved Stone Balls, which are mainly from Scotland, although they have also been found in Cumbria and Ireland; and carved stone shot for cannons and trebuchets.\n\nNaturally formed stone balls, such as concretions and spherulites, have been at times misidentified as petrospheres. For example, fringe archaeologists and advocates of prehistoric extraterrestrial visitors have repeatedly argued that the stone balls, which range in diameter from 0.61 to 3.35 m, found around Cerro Piedras Bola in the Sierra de Ameca, between Ahualulco de Mercado and Ameca, in Jalisco, Mexico, are petrospheres. However, these natural stone balls are megaspherulites that have been released by erosion from a 20- to 30-million-year-old ash flow tuff, which originally enclosed them and in which they formed. The proponents of these stone balls being petrospheres base their arguments on the false claims that all of these spheres are perfectly round, they are composed of granite, and natural processes cannot produce stone balls. Similarly, cannonball concretions, i.e. those found along the Cannonball River in North Dakota and near Moeraki, South Island, New Zealand, also have been misidentified as petrospheres.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9981540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9981540", "title": "Radical Philosophy", "text": "Radical Philosophy\n\nRadical Philosophy is a bimonthly academic journal of critical theory and philosophy. It was established in 1972 with the purpose of providing a forum for the theoretical work which was emerging in the wake of the radical movements of the 1960s, in philosophy and other fields. The journal is edited by an \"editorial collective\".\n\nAs well as academic articles, the journal publishes book reviews and usually some news and at least one commentary on matters of topical interest. Although not associated with any specific left-wing position, the journal is subtitled \"Journal of Socialist and Feminist Philosophy\" and has been broadly associated with the New Left. Editors of the journal since the early 1970s have included Marxists and feminists.\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in Alternative Press Index, British Humanities Index, Social Sciences Citation Index, The Left Index, Philosopher's Index, Social Sciences Citation Index, and Sociological Abstracts. According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2015 impact factor of 0.875, ranking it 21st out of 40 journals in the category \"Women's Studies\", and 28th out of 51 journals in the category \"Ethics\".\n\n"}
{"id": "43028857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43028857", "title": "Realism (art movement)", "text": "Realism (art movement)\n\nRealism was an artistic movement that began in France in the 1850s, after the 1848 Revolution. Realists rejected Romanticism, which had dominated French literature and art since the late 18th century. Realism revolted against the exotic subject matter and the exaggerated emotionalism and drama of the Romantic movement. Instead, it sought to portray real and typical contemporary people and situations with truth and accuracy, and not avoiding unpleasant or sordid aspects of life. Realist works depicted people of all classes in situations that arise in ordinary life, and often reflected the changes brought by the Industrial and Commercial Revolutions. The popularity of such \"realistic\" works grew with the introduction of photography—a new visual source that created a desire for people to produce representations which look objectively real.\n\nThe Realists depicted everyday subjects and situations in contemporary settings, and attempted to depict individuals of all social classes in a similar manner. Classical idealism and Romantic emotionalism and drama were avoided equally, and often sordid or untidy elements of subjects were not smoothed over or omitted. Social realism emphasizes the depiction of the working class, and treating them with the same seriousness as other classes in art, but realism, as the avoidance of artificiality, in the treatment of human relations and emotions was also an aim of Realism. Treatments of subjects in a heroic or sentimental manner were equally rejected.\n\nRealism as an art movement was led by Gustave Courbet in France. It spread across Europe and was influential for the rest of the century and beyond, but as it became adopted into the mainstream of painting it becomes less common and useful as a term to define artistic style. After the arrival of Impressionism and later movements which downgraded the importance of precise illusionistic brushwork, it often came to refer simply to the use of a more traditional and tighter painting style. It has been used for a number of later movements and trends in art, some involving careful illusionistic representation, such as Photorealism, and others the depiction of \"realist\" subject matter in a social sense, or attempts at both.\n\nThe Realist movement began in the mid-19th century as a reaction to Romanticism and History painting. In favor of depictions of 'real' life, the Realist painters used common laborers, and ordinary people in ordinary surroundings engaged in real activities as subjects for their works. The chief exponents of Realism were Gustave Courbet, Jean-François Millet, Honoré Daumier, and Jean-Baptiste-Camille Corot. Jules Bastien-Lepage is closely associated with the beginning of \"Naturalism\", an artistic style that emerged from the later phase of the Realist movement and heralded the arrival of Impressionism.\n\nRealists used unprettified detail depicting the existence of ordinary contemporary life, coinciding in the contemporaneous naturalist literature of Émile Zola, Honoré de Balzac, and Gustave Flaubert.\n\nCourbet was the leading proponent of Realism and he challenged the popular history painting that was favored at the state-sponsored art academy.\nHis groundbreaking paintings \"A Burial at Ornans\" and \"The Stonebreakers\" depicted ordinary people from his native region. Both paintings were done on huge canvases that would typically be used for history paintings. Although Courbet's early works emulated the sophisticated manner of Old Masters such as Rembrandt and Titian, after 1848 he adopted a boldly inelegant style inspired by popular prints, shop signs, and other work of folk artisans. In \"The Stonebreakers\", his first painting to create a controversy, Courbet eschewed the pastoral tradition of representing human subjects in harmony with nature. Rather, he depicted two men juxtaposed against a charmless, stony roadside. The concealment of their faces emphasizes the dehumanizing nature of their monotonous, repetitive labor. \n\nThe French Realist movement had stylistic and ideological equivalents in all other Western countries, developing somewhat later. The Realist movement in France was characterized by a spirit of rebellion against powerful official support for history painting. In countries where institutional support of history painting was less dominant, the transition from existing traditions of genre painting to Realism presented no such schism. An important Realist movement beyond France was the Peredvizhniki or \"Wanderers\" group in Russia who formed in the 1860s and organized exhibitions from 1871 included many realists such as genre artist Vasily Perov, landscape artists Ivan Shishkin, Alexei Savrasov, and Arkhip Kuindzhi, portraitist Ivan Kramskoy, war artist Vasily Vereshchagin, historical artist Vasily Surikov and, especially, Ilya Repin, who is considered by many to be the most renowned Russian artist of the 19th century. \n\nCourbet's influence was felt most strongly in Germany, where prominent realists included Adolph Menzel, Wilhelm Leibl, Wilhelm Trübner, and Max Liebermann. Leibl and several other young German painters met Courbet in 1869 when he visited Munich to exhibit his works and demonstrate his manner of painting from nature. In Italy the artists of the Macchiaioli group painted Realist scenes of rural and urban life. The Hague School were Realists in the Netherlands whose style and subject matter strongly influenced the early works of Vincent van Gogh. In Britain artists such as the American James Abbot McNeill Whistler, as well as English artists Ford Madox Brown, Hubert von Herkomer and Luke Fildes had great success with realist paintings dealing with social issues and depictions of the \"real\" world. \n\nIn the United States, Winslow Homer and Thomas Eakins were important Realists and forerunners of the Ashcan School, an early-20th-century art movement largely based in New York City. The Ashcan School included such artists as George Bellows and Robert Henri, and helped to define American realism in its tendency to depict the daily life of poorer members of society. \n\n"}
{"id": "1462833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1462833", "title": "Rephotography", "text": "Rephotography\n\nRephotography is the act of repeat photography of the same site, with a time lag between the two images; a \"then and now\" view of a particular area. Some are casual, usually taken from the same view point but without regard to season, lens coverage or framing. Some are very precise and involve a careful study of the original image.\n\nSince the 1850s techniques were developed for surveying and scientific study, especially in systems (Paganini, 1880; Deville, 1889; Finsterwalder, 1890) of photogrammetry in which precise measurements made from triangulation of points in numbers of photographic records are made in order to track changes in ecological systems. Rephotography continues to be used by the scientific world to record incremental or cyclical events (of erosion, or glacier flow for example), or to measure the extent of sand banks in a river, or other phenomena which change slowly over time.\n\nRephotography has also been a useful visual method for researchers in sociology and communication to understand social change. Three main approaches are common - photographs of places, participants, or activities, functions, or processes – with scholars examining elements of continuity. This method is advantageous to studying social change due to the capacity of cameras to record scenes with greater completeness and speed, to document detailed complexities at a single time, and to capture images in an unobtrusive manner. Repeat photographs offer \"subtle cues about the changing character of social life\" (Reiger, 1996, p. 7). Upon analysis of elements of continuity within the images, researchers must be cautious to not make erroneous interpretations of change. Another closely related use of rephotography has been the political one made by Gustavo Germano in Argentina, who rephotographed family pictures of disappeared, thus making explicit both the missing people and the life that goes on.\n\nThe accurate rephotographer usually determines several facts before taking a new image. An important starting point is the choice of the older image. To show continuity between the two images, rephotographers usually include in the frame a building or other object which is present in the modern view. Some urban scenes change so much that the original buildings shown have been completely obscured by subsequent skyscrapers, or have been demolished. A \"then and now\" photograph could be taken but there would be nothing in common to link the two images.\n\nThe vantage point from which the original photographer took the view may have disappeared over the years, so the rephotographer has to choose an original view for which the vantage point is still accessible, or arrange to rent equipment to duplicate the original position of the camera.\n\nSince modern camera lenses differ considerably from older lenses, the rephotographer also has to take into account the area that the lens covers, and the depth of field available.\n\nThrough scrutiny of the original image, the rephotographer determines the season and the time of day from observation of the vegetation and the shadows shown. The best way to do this is to set up a camera at the original viewpoint, at approximately the right season and time, and wait with the original view in hand, until the shadows reach the same positions relative to surrounding objects. If done with extreme accuracy it should be possible to place one image over the other, and see the edges of buildings match exactly.\n\nThis type of rephotography can be seen in the McCord Museum of Canadian History's virtual exhibition \"Urban Life through Two Lenses.\" It shows the nineteenth-century views of Montreal by William Notman, rephotographed by Andrzej Maciejewski in 2002. Another is Douglas Levere's project, \"New York Changing\"; here Levere rephotographed 114 of Berenice Abbott's, \"Changing New York\" images.\nThe French rephotographer Vincent Zénon Rigaud is comparing views of Reims in Champagne before and after the almost complete destruction of the city by first world war bombshells. \"Reims avant, pendant et après la première guerre mondiale\" Rigaud's work shows the impact of war on urbanism. War severely damaged The cathedral Notre-Dame of Reims, UNESCO's utmost masterpiece of Gothic architecture, is still under several heavy restoration processes where accurate rephotography is used as a site supervision and a duty of memory.\n\nSmart phones, because they include both cameras and computing, have the potential to simplify the re-photography process. To date, examples of this include \"Computational Rephotography\", an approach that uses feature-matching and structure-from-motion to tell a photographer how to move so that the current view best matches the previous view, and \"Collaborative Rephotography\", which overlays the current view transparently over the original image to allow the photographer to line up elements of the scene before taking the picture. Specific projects include: rePhoto, a rephotography app for Citizen Science projects including turtle tracking and urban tree monitoring; and Retake Melbourne, a crowd-participatory, crowd-funded, mobile app-enabled Deakin University project to rephotograph the fifty-year-old archive of Melbourne (Australia) streetscapes by Mark Strizic.\n"}
{"id": "201517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=201517", "title": "Social studies", "text": "Social studies\n\nIn the United States education system, social studies is the integrated study of multiple fields of social science and the humanities, including history, geography, and political science. The term was first coined by American educators around the turn of the twentieth century as a catch-all for these subjects, as well as others which did not fit into the traditional models of lower education in the United States, such as philosophy and psychology.\n\nIn 1912, the Bureau of Education (not to be confused with its successor agency, the United States Department of Education) was tasked by then Secretary of the Interior Franklin Knight Lane with completely restructuring the American education system for the twentieth century. In response, the Bureau of Education, together with the National Education Association, created the Commission on the Reorganization of Secondary Education. The Commission was made up of 16 committees (a 17th was established two years later, in 1916), each one tasked with the reform of a specific aspect of the American Education system. Notable among these was the Committee on Social Studies, which was created to consolidate and standardize various subjects which did not fit within normal school curricula into a new subject, to be called \"the social studies.\"\n\nIn 1920, the work done by the Committee on Social Studies culminated in the publication and release of Bulletin No. 28 (also called \"The Committee on Social Studies Report, 1916\"). The 66-page bulletin published and distributed by the Bureau of Education is believed to be the first written work dedicated entirely to the subject. It was designed to introduce the concept to American educators and serve as a guide for the creation of nationwide curricula based around social studies. The bulletin proposed many ideas which were considered radical at the time, and it is regarded by many educators as one the most controversial educational resources of the early twentieth century.\n\nIn the years after its release, the bulletin received criticism from educators on its vagueness, especially in regards to the definition of Social Studies itself. Critics often point to Section 1 of the report, which vaguely defines Social Studies as \"...understood to be those whose subject matter relates directly to the organization and development of human society, and to man as a member of social groups.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "17425179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17425179", "title": "Steve.museum", "text": "Steve.museum\n\nThe steve.museum project is a collaborative effort to improve public access to and engagement with US art museum collections. To do so, it is exploring the possibilities of user-generated descriptions of works of art, also known as folksonomy. Currently,project staff comprises a group of volunteers, mostly from art museums, including the Guggenheim Museum, the Cleveland Museum of Art, the Metropolitan Museum of Art and the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art, as well as Archives & Museum Informatics.\n\nFolksonomy is a relatively new phenomenon whereby web-users tag content for the purposes of later retrieval. It allows the public to introduce new search-terms, in the form of tags, to the formal library catalog that art and cataloging professionals themselves might not have included. It also allows curators and other museum professionals to see what the public sees in works of art. These terms will enrich the catalog and increase the likelihood that searchers of all levels will find what they are looking for. In the end, it is hoped that museum collections will be fully searchable by keywords rather than just by name or artist. Early results from the project found that a number of tags were applied often, while others were applied just once per work of art.\n\nThe project received a $1 million grant from the US Institute of Museum and Library Services, from which the Indianapolis Museum of Art is working to apply folksonomy to its collection, and is one of a number of related projects currently working to make art more accessible and to find its role in the digital age.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23409370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23409370", "title": "Stratificational linguistics", "text": "Stratificational linguistics\n\nStratificational linguistics is a view of linguistics advocated by Sydney Lamb. His theories advocate that language usage and production is stratificational in nature.\n\nSpecifically, that there are separate 'strata' or levels in the brain used for language. Each level provides actualization or 'realization' for the next higher level, and the elements on its level are similar to each other. Several strata are involved in the production of a sound from an initial idea.\n\nSome strata include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4463773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4463773", "title": "Tactical media", "text": "Tactical media\n\nTactical media is a term coined in 1996, to denote a form of media activism that privileges temporary, hit-and-run interventions in the media sphere over the creation of permanent and alternative media outlets. Tactical media describes interventionist media art practices that engage and critique the dominant political and economic order. They were first popularized in Europe and the United States by media theorists and practitioners such as David Garcia, Geert Lovink, Joanne Richardson, and the Critical Art Ensemble. Since then, it has been used to describe the practices of a vast array of art and activist groups such as RTMark, The Yes Men, Electronic Disturbance Theater, Carbon Defense League, Institute for Applied Autonomy, 0100101110101101.ORG, Bureau of Inverse Technology, Ubermorgen, The Illuminator, Irational.org, subRosa, and I/O/D, among others.\n\nAlthough tactical media borrows from a number of artistic and political movements, it has been suggested that much of its techniques are rooted in the Situationist idea of detournement, that is, in the critical appropriation and transformation of a preexisting work—be it an artwork, a commercial billboard, or a political campaign. In the case of tactical media, it is the media themselves to be the subject of a detournement.\n\nThe dada movement has also been credited as an influence on tactical media, the two often used within activist campaigns. Much like it, tactical media often aims to do the opposite of the media it penetrates: it shocks and reveals an antithesis.\n\nTactical media also draws from surrealism, borrowing the idea that a \"truer\" experience than the present one is present. Much like surrealism, tactical media also criticizes social, political and cultural elements of a given society through its domain's techniques.\n\nAs for media-related roots, tactical media partly stem from the alternative media created by the counterculture of the 1960s. However, due do their temporary nature, tactical media do not tend to construct alternative media outlets, but rather appropriate existing media channels and technology to transform their usage and/or the popular understanding of their messages. In this respect, tactical media are more akin to other temporary forms of cultural and political intervention, such as guerrilla communication and culture jamming.\n\nTactical media is said to have risen following the fall of the Berlin Wall, where a certain rebirth of social, political, economical and media activism occurred. This activist spirit soon reached both media specialists and artists, creating the groundwork of tactical media. In many ways, it was made possible by the availability of cheaper technology and by open forms of distribution, such as public-access television and the Internet. Through tactical media, participants are able to attract attention to an issue they feel strongly about and want society to be aware of or get involved in.\n\nMost who have written about tactical media would agree that its current form and meaning come from French philosopher Michel de Certeau, more specifically in his 1984 essay \"The Practice of Everyday Life\". As part of this essay, De Certeau debated that consumers actually act as producers within our society, moving in a technocratically constructed space and using an already established vocabulary. The importance to De Certeau is that these practices \"determines the elements used, but not the 'phrasing' produced by the bricolage (the artisan-like inventiveness) and the discursiveness that combine these elements, which are all in general circulation.\" This distinction between the elements used within a society and the system under which they are used is critical to the study of tactical media. In his essay, De Certeau appeared to suggest that one could easily use these social elements in a creative manner that would fall outside of the system under which they are to be used.\n\nOnce this distinction was made, De Certeau also pushed forward the idea of how the elements found within a society could be used. One of these was to use them as a \"tactic\", which he believed to \"[insinuate] itself into the other's place, fragmentarily, without taking it over in its entirety, without being able to keep it at a distance. It has at its disposal no base where it can capitalize on its advantages, prepare its expansions, and secure independence with respect to circumstances\". Due to its lack of space, he also characterized a tactic to be dependent on time, needing to be constantly on the watch for opportunities that must be quickly seized or needing to manipulate events in order to turn them into opportunities.\n\nBy mixing the nature of tactics with the use of media, a new type of activism was created. It used elements of a particular system in a creative manner that fell outside its practices, creating resistance through difference. De Certeau's concept of a tactic also explains why most tactical media campaigns are quick, effective and current.\n\nHowever, successful a particular campaign or a particular group may be, its ultimate goal is not to replace a certain media outlet, for tactical media discourages branding because of the probable outcome that a similar cycle as the one attacked would be created once again. It must therefore be understood that tactical media never reaches a state of perfection; it is constantly changing, because it constantly needs to question the system under which it operates.\n\nAlthough it is possible for tactical media to be representative of the local views of a specific area, it is usually present on a global level. There are plenty of tactical media projects that operate on a physical space, but it most often uses networked space and the Internet, making its span stretch over the entire planet. The virtual nature of the space it occupies also allows it to create new channels towards the hierarchies of power it fights against. A certain tactic does not need to attack in person or on a physical level, but it can attack virtual and free space where the dominant have little control. This important element makes a tactical media project not the work of certain identifiable individuals but an entity in itself, which most likely helps convey the message it attempts to communicate.\n\nTactical media projects are often a mix between art and activism, which explains why many of its roots can be traced to various art movements. It has been suggested by tactical media theorist Geert Lovink that \"discourse plus art equals spectacle\", reflecting its striking and memorable nature. Although there are no strict mediums through which it operates, tactical media can often have very high aesthetic value, adding to its \"spectacle\" and reinforcing some of its artistic roots.\n\nIn 1998, computer programmer and political activist Zack Exley purchased a domain and created a website titled GWbush.com. He invited the group RTMark (pronounced Art Mark) to build a copy of George W. Bush's official website, as they had done for some corporate websites.\n\nLater, Zack Exley changed the website to be a more mainstream satire (drawing criticism from RTMark), posting a fake press release from the Bush campaign announcing a promise to \"pardon all drug prisoners as long as they've learned from their past mistakes\". In the midst of Bush's campaign for office, the website not only received millions of hits, but also received coverage from such organizations as ABC News, \"USA Today\" and \"Newsweek\". This phenomenon can be classified as tactical media because of its conformance to its corresponding criteria.\n\nIn 2000, Mexico's Zapatista Army of National Liberation social movement decided to launch a \"tactical air force\". The Zapatistas' air force consisted of hundreds of paper airplanes. After throwing the planes over the fence of a federal barrack, confused troops were quick to point their rifles at the paper intruders, creating an image that conveyed a very strong message of peace versus war—the target ultimately being the government.\n\nThe Yes Men are an organization who mimic their subject through certain media: examples include counterfeiting sites and creating fake videos. They will mimic their criticized subject, designed to fool the general public into believing their alternate identity. Examples of organizations and corporations that The Yes Men have successfully impersonated (and criticized) are Dow Chemicals, ExxonMobil, McDonald's, World Trade Organization, U.S. Department of Housing and Urban Development (HUD), \"The New York Times\" and Heritage.\n\nAll of The Yes Men's media operate in a similar fashion: they will impersonate a powerful entity, and publicize or make decisions based on their own personal viewpoint. One of the most controversial but widely known works that The Yes Men have produced is a humorous video spoof where they impersonated a World Trade Organization representative, asking corporations to buy votes directly from the general public. Some other ideas that they publicized in this video spoof include the present-day influence dating from the Civil War, encouraging the idea of reviving slavery.\n\nThese video spoofs are meant to evoke emotions of outrage and absurdity. They were once successful enough to fool the public to the extent where they were able to be interviewed by CNN—however, CNN was unaware of the true identity of The Yes Men.\n\n\"An example of Yes Men:\"\n\nIn April 2010, a radical Islamic group, Revolution Muslim, made threats to South Park creators, Matt Stone and Trey Parker, after they were offended of the show depicting their prophet Mohammed. As a tactical media rebuttal, unknown agents created a site with a similar URL to Revolution Muslim's website showing images of a controversial comic of Mohammed (The comic shows Mohammed with a bomb as his turban and sparked a huge controversy in 2006). as well as a highly regarded Islamic leader kissing an Islamic child on the mouth. This website was intended to draw visitors who incorrectly typed in the URL to the Islamic website. This tactic was aiming to mock Islamic radicals who use violent tactics to get their way and then get offended that they are stereotyped as violent.\n\nBrett Gaylor, an avid Web activist, created a documentary entitled \"RiP: A Remix Manifesto\", which was dedicated to defending deejay Girl Talk, who had been accused by top record labels with copyright infringement. Although Girl Talk samples songs from other artists, Gaylor suggests that copyrights should be distributed according to the creator of the music as a whole, rather than who holds the ownership for specific songs. Moreover, he argues that Girl Talk should be the owner of the mash-ups that he created, despite ownership conflicts. This represents tactical media well, because an ordinary person with a mindset can create a temporary power of reversal with Girl Talk's adversaries.\n\nVideo games have opened a whole new approach and canvas for tactical media artists. This form of media allows for a wide range of audiences to be informed on a specific issue or idea. Some examples of games that touch on Tactical Media are \"Darfur is Dying\" and \"September 12\". One example of a game design studio that works in tactical media is TAKE ACTION games (TAG). The video game website www.newsgaming.com greatly embodies the idea of tactical media in video games. Newsgaming coins this name as a new genre that brings awareness to current news-related issues based on true world events, as opposed to fantasy worlds that other video games are based upon. This team of game developers contributes to the emerging culture that is largely aimed at raising awareness on important matters in a new and brilliant approach.\n\nAnother examples of tactical media within video games is \"The McDonald's Game\"; the author of this game takes power away from the executive officers of McDonald's and gives it back to the public by informing then, through rhetoric, on how McDonald's does its business and what means they use to accomplish it.\n\nChris Crawford's \"Balance of the Planet\", made in 1990, is another example of tactical media, in which the game describes environmental issues.\n\nBest known for his homeless vehicle project. Wodiczko designed a sleeping quarters for the homeless using a device that resembled a shopping cart and inside was a designed sleeping area. He dispersed the vehicles to homeless people around New York City, envisioning a goal that raised homelessness awareness. New York City officials confiscated the vehicles so the message would not further spread.\n\nBest known for Couple in a Cage, performances where people pretending to be extinct natives are displayed in a caged area in public. This work of art is intended to challenge the idea of preconceptions that many hold regarding other cultures.\n\nBustamante performs art that challenges stereotypes and constructions of identity, bringing attention to issues about personal classification and character. She is a strong proponent of individualism and personal growth: the only entity capable of forging an identity being the person him or herself.\n\nKaprow's work attempts to integrate art and life. Through \"Happenings\", the separation between life, art, artist, and audience becomes vague and open to interpretation. The \"Happening\" allows the artist to experiment with human senses, deploying the involvement of sight, sound, and smell. Key elements of happenings are planned, but occasionally, artists retain room for improvisation.\n\nMandiberg produces websites and Firefox plug-ins that provide information about environmental aspects of our world, such as the cost of oil. His plug-ins reshape and modify the displayed information on other websites to display an alarming point.\n\nDe Certeau helped invent the idea and methodology that is tactical media and stressed the important roles of consumers vs. producers in society.\nGeert Lovink is a very influential person and has played a large role in the evolution and presence of tactical media. Lovink in a sense believes the idea of tactical media has been greatly miscued and that what this idea and title once stood for has been misinterpreted and drawn off course by falsified groups and causes that claim the title of tactical media.\nIn 2009, Rita Raley, Associate Professor of English at UC Santa Barbara authored a book titled \"Tactical Media\" published by the University of Minnesota Press in its \"Electronic Mediations\" series. Raley provides a critical exploration of the new media art activism that has emerged from, and in direct response to, postindustrialism and neoliberal globalization. Throughout the book Raley analyzes projects by tactical media groups such as the DoEAT group, the Critical Art Ensemble, Electronic Civil Disobedience to name a few. Raley argues that contemporary models of resistance and dissent in fact mimic the decentralized and virtual operations of global capital in our \"post-9/11 security state\" to exploit and undermine the system from within.\n\nThe Yes Men are an activist duo who perform \"identity correction\", in which they pose as representatives of large corporations and fake moral actions (in contrast to the actual ideology of such groups). Using mass media outlets, the duo draw attention to corporate crime and often create situations in which corporations must publicly acknowledge their lack of responsibility towards disastrous events.\n\nAndujar turns free and open-source software into a progressive tool to reprogram the use and understanding of computers as well as social culture at large.\n\nIt has often been compared to culture jamming, as both use many of the same techniques in an attempt to occupy the public space controlled by mass media. Where the two practices differ is in their way to obtain this public space; while culture jamming consists of a response to the dominant practices within it, tactical media uses the dominant practices in order to penetrate it and become part of it. \"Don't hate the media, become the media\" (as coined by Jello Biafra, spoken word artist and lead singer songwriter of the Dead Kennedys) is a slogan often adopted by tactical activists and reflects this important distinction. Tactical media has also been compared to alternative media. It differs from the latter by its manner in dealing with mass media where alternative media does not seek to infiltrate the dominant by a quick tactic; it attempts to oppose it by proposing what its name suggests: an alternative to the dominant.\n\nTactical media is described as the rebellious user—examples of media tacticians include hackers, street rappers, or an innocent bystander filming an incident. An important factor in tactical media is the idea of \"ground level\" work, meaning that a power struggle exists: ordinary people who do not possess status or capital utilize technology to create a temporary reversal of power. Certain aspects that strengthen the magnitude of tactical media can include crisis, criticism, critique, or absurdity—in order to convey a social message.\n\nTactical media's counterpart is strategic media: a common analogy used to describe this phenomenon is an overseer controlling the masses. They are people who are the supplier of information: examples include producers, authors, and educators. They promote ideas that typically only benefit them, whereas tactical media tends to broadcast a message that criticizes a powerful entity, such as a corporation or strong organization.\n\nThere is some debate that tactical media resembles a strategy more than a tactic.\n\nAlthough a crucial element of tactical media states that ordinary citizens of society are performing the criticism, some say that even everyday people may have skewed intentions or opinions that do not represent the societal ideals as a whole.\n\nMuch of the tactical media projects are fueled by information warfare and has also been accused to be closely linked to propaganda. The high value of aesthetics placed within a project is said to be the element that enables the transfer of this information, parallel to how propaganda functions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1089964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1089964", "title": "The Asiatic Society", "text": "The Asiatic Society\n\nThe Asiatic Society was founded by civil servant Sir William Jones on 15 January 1784 in a meeting presided over by Sir William Jones, Justice of the Supreme Court of Judicature at Fort William at the Fort William in Calcutta, then capital of the British Raj, to enhance and further the cause of Oriental research. At the time of its foundation, this Society was named as \"Asiatick Society\". In 1825, the society dropped the antique \"k\" without any formal resolution and the Society was renamed as \"The Asiatic Society\". In 1832 the name was changed to \"The Asiatic Society of Bengal\" and again in 1936 it was renamed as \"The Royal Asiatic Society of Bengal.\" Finally, on 1 July 1951 the name of the society was changed to its present one. The Society is housed in a building at Park Street in Kolkata (Calcutta). The Society moved into this building during 1808. In 1823, the Medical and Physical Society of Calcutta was formed and all the meetings of this society were held in the Asiatic Society.\n\nIn January 1784 Sir William\nJones sent out a circular-letter to a selected number of British residents of Calcutta with a view to establish a society for the Asiatic studies. At his inivitation, thirty British residents met in the Grand Jury Room of the Supreme Court (in Calcutta's Fort William) on 15 January 1784. The meeting was presided over by Sir Robert Chambers. At this meeting, Jones explained the aims of the Society he would establish. The \"Memorandum of Articles\" of the Asiatic Society, prepared by Jones said:\n\nNotable early members were Charles Wilkins and Alexander Hamilton (the cousin of the American statesman). Initially, the Grand Jury Room of the Supreme Court was used for the meetings of the members, who had to pay a quarterly fee of two mohurs. The members were elected through ballot-voting. On 29 September 1796 the Society decided to have its own building. J.H. Harrington, then Vice-President selected the corner of Park Street and Chowringhee Road (present location) for the Society's house. The site was granted to the society on 15 May 1805. The original plan for the new building was prepared by Captain Thomas Preston. The French architect, Jean-Jacques Pichou made certain modifications to it and constructed a two storeyed building at the site. This 15,071 ft² building was built at a cost of Rs. 30,000.00. The first quarterly meeting of the Society for 1808 was held at its new building on 3 February 1808.\n\nFrom 1784 to 1828, only Europeans were elected members of the Society. In 1829, at the initiative of H.H. Wilson, a number of Indians were elected members, which include Dwarakanath Tagore, Sivchandra Das, Maharaja Baidyanath Roy, Maharaja Bunwari Govind Roy, Raja Kalikrishna Bahadur, Rajchunder Das, Ram Comul Sen and Prasanna Coomar Tagore. On 12 December 1832 Ram Comul Sen was elected 'Native Secretary'. Later, Rajendralal Mitra became the first Indian President in 1885. Both the orientalist, Brajendranath De, and one of his grandsons, the historian, Barun De, were for sometime vice president of the Asiatic Society.\n\nOne of the main activities of the Asiatic Society was to collect the old manuscripts of India. There was an enomous collection of Sanskrit manuscripts with the society. At present, the library of the Asiatic Society has a collection of about books and 79,000 journals printed in almost all the major languages of the world. It has also a collection of 293 maps, microfische of 48,000 works, microfilm of 387,003 pages, 182 paintings, 2500 pamphlets and 2150 photographs. The earliest printed book preserved in this library is Juli Firmici's \"Astronomicorum Libri\" published in 1499. It has in its possession a large number of books printed in India in the late 18th and early 19th centuries. The library also possesses many rare and scarcely available books. The library has a rich collection of about 47,000 manuscripts in 26 scripts. The most notable amongst them are an illustrated manuscript of the \"Qur'an\", a manuscript of the \"Gulistan\" text, and a manuscript of \"Padshah Nama\" bearing the signature of Emperor Shahjahan. The number of journals in the possession of the library is about 80,000 at present.\n\nThe early collection of this library was enriched by the contributions it received from its members. On 25 March 1784 the library received seven Persian manuscripts from Henri Richardson. The next contribution came from William Marsden, who donated his book, \"The History of Sumatra\" (1783) on 10 November 1784. Robert Home, the first Library-in-Charge (1804) donated his small but valuable collection of works on art. The first accession of importance was a gift from the Seringapatam Committee on 3 February 1808 consisting of a collection from the Palace Library of Tipu Sultan. The library received the Surveyor-General Colonel Mackenzie's collection of manuscripts and drawings in December 1822.\n\nSince 1849, the Society has printed \"Bibliotheca Indica\", a collection of rare and unpublished works belonging to or treating of Oriental literature and containing original text-editions as well as translations into English, and also grammars, dictionaries, bibliographies, and studies.\n\nThe museum of the Society was founded in 1814 under the superintendence of Nathaniel Wallich. The rapid growth of its collection is evident from its first catalogue, published in 1849. By 1849 the Society had its own museum consisting of inscriptions in stone and metal, icons, old coins and Sanskrit manuscripts etc. \n\nWhen the Indian Museum of Calcutta was established in 1814, the Society handed over most of its valuable collections to it. The Society however still has a museum of its own which possesses a rock edict of Asoka (c. 250 BCE) and a significant collection of copper plate inscriptions, coins, sculptures, manuscripts and archival records. Some masterpieces, like Joshua Reynolds’ \"Cupid asleep on Cloud \", Guido Cagnacci's \"Cleopatra\", Thomas Daniell's \"A Ghat at Benares\" and Peter Paul Rubens’ \"Infant Christ\" are also in the possession of this museum.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52372655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52372655", "title": "Theatre in Saudi Arabia", "text": "Theatre in Saudi Arabia\n\nThe modern Saudi theatre traces its beginnings with the foundation of the current Saudi Arabia state. However, the Hijaz play in Medina was established during the Turkish Ottoman era. A popular theatre, frequently including dance, Arabic Poetry. Theatre activities are still popular today in the kingdom. Saudi theatre has\nexisted in and been produced by several establishments such as schools, universities, governmental sectors, and private sectors.\n\nThe history of the Theatrical activities in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia back to 1928 when the first play entitled \"Dialogue between the ignorant and uneducated\" performed in Qassim in front of King Abdulaziz\n. There were theatrical activities were also very active during the Ottoman in Hijaz. Ministry of Culture and Information is one of the several organizations that have been established throughout the country to preserve and sponsors the Saudi theater. The Saudi Arabian Society for Culture and Arts, The King Fahd Cultural Center, and King Abdulaziz Center for World Culture also sponsors the Saudi theater activities in the kingdom.\n\nThere are several theaters in the kingdom. The Theater of King Fahd Cultural Center in Riyadh is considered the largest theater in Saudi Arabia with the largest number of seats that serve more than 3000 people. It has witnessed and hosted many theatre activities. Also, the theater of King Abdulaziz Center for World Culture has around 900 seats, and plan to open in the second half of 2017. \n"}
{"id": "18015871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18015871", "title": "Three Critics of the Enlightenment", "text": "Three Critics of the Enlightenment\n\nThree Critics of the Enlightenment: Vico, Hamann, Herder is a collection of essays in the history of philosophy by 20th century philosopher and historian of ideas Isaiah Berlin. Edited by Henry Hardy and released posthumously in 2000, the collection comprises the previously published works \"Vico and Herder: Two Studies in the History of Ideas\" (1976) – an essay on Counter-Enlightenment thinkers Giambattista Vico and Johann Gottfried Herder – and \"The Magus of the North: J. G. Hamann and the Origins of Modern Irrationalism\" (1993), concerning irrationalist Johann Georg Hamann. \n\nBerlin's initial interest in the critics of the Enlightenment arose through reading the works of Marxist historian of ideas Georgi Plekhanov. The historian Zeev Sternhell has raised questions concerning the editing of the work, pointing to Henry Hardy's replacement of Berlin's citations of secondary sources with primary sources on a number of occasions. He suggests that Hardy's editing \"raises doubts as to Berlin's reading of his sources,\" and concludes with the following observation: \"The question whether systematically omitting the secondary sources and replacing them with texts that Berlin himself did not mention, which probably means he did not read them, can be considered a legitimate procedure is highly dubious.\"\n\nVico and Herder are portrayed by Berlin as alternatives to the rationalistic epistemology which characterized the Enlightenment. Berlin held that the agenda of the Enlightenment could be understood in a number of ways, and that to view it from the perspectives of its critics (i.e. Vico, Herder and Hamann) was to bring its distinctive and controversial aspects into sharp focus. \"Three Critics\" was one of Berlin's many publications on the Enlightenment and its enemies that did much to popularise the concept of a Counter-Enlightenment movement that he characterised as relativist, anti-rationalist, vitalist and organic, and which he associated most closely with German Romanticism.\n\nBerlin identifies Hamann as one of the first thinkers to conceive of human cognition as language – the articulation and use of symbols. Berlin saw Hamann as having recognised as the rationalist's Cartesian fallacy the notion that there are \"clear and distinct\" ideas \"which can be contemplated by a kind of inner eye\", without the use of language. Herder, coiner of the term \"Nazionalismus\" (nationalism) is portrayed by Berlin as conceiving of the nation as a \"people's culture,\" the unique way of life of a particular folk, bound by ties of kinship and ties to land, defined by their unique history.\n\n"}
{"id": "21898118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21898118", "title": "Underwater acoustic positioning system", "text": "Underwater acoustic positioning system\n\nAn underwater acoustic positioning system is a system for the tracking and navigation of underwater vehicles or divers by means of acoustic distance and/or direction measurements, and subsequent position triangulation. Underwater acoustic positioning systems are commonly used in a wide variety of underwater work, including oil and gas exploration, ocean sciences, salvage operations, marine archaeology, law enforcement and military activities.\n\nFigure 1 describes the general method of operation of an acoustic positioning system, this is an example of a long baseline (LBL) positioning system for ROV\n\n\nAcoustic positioning systems measure positions relative to a framework of baseline stations, which must be deployed prior to operations. In the case of a long-baseline (LBL) system, a set of three or more baseline transponders are deployed on the sea floor. The location of the baseline transponders either relative to each other or in global coordinates must then be measured precisely. Some systems assist this task with an automated acoustic self-survey, and in other cases GPS is used to establish the position of each baseline transponder as it is deployed or after deployment.\n\n\nFollowing the baseline deployment and survey, the acoustic positioning system is ready for operations. In the long baseline example (see figure 1), an interrogator (A) is mounted on the ROV that is to be tracked. The interrogator transmits an acoustic signal that is received by the baseline transponders (B, C, D, E). The reply of the baseline transponders is received again at the ROV. The signal time-of-flight or the corresponding distances A-B, A-C, A-D and A-E are transmitted via the ROV umbilical (F) to the surface, where the ROV position is computed and displayed on a tracking screen. The acoustic distance measurements may be augmented by depth sensor data to obtain better positioning accuracy in the three-dimensional underwater space.\n\nAcoustic positioning systems can yield an accuracy of a few centimeters to tens of meters and can be used over operating distance from tens of meters to tens of kilometers. Performance depends strongly on the type and model of the positioning system, its configuration for a particular job, and the characteristics of the underwater acoustic environment at the work site.\n\nUnderwater acoustic positioning systems are generally categorized into three broad types or classes\n\nLong-baseline (LBL) systems, as in figure 1 above, use a sea-floor baseline transponder network. The transponders are typically mounted in the corners of the operations site. LBL systems yield very high accuracy of generally better than 1 m and sometimes as good as 0.01m along with very robust positions This is due to the fact that the transponders are installed in the reference frame of the work site itself (i.e. on the sea floor), the wide transponder spacing results in an ideal geometry for position computations, and the LBL system operates without an acoustic path to the (potentially distant) sea surface.\nUltra-short-baseline (USBL) systems and the related super-short-baseline (SSBL) systems rely on a small (ex. 230 mm across), tightly integrated transducer array that is typically mounted on the bottom end of a strong, rigid transducer pole which is installed either on the side or in some cases on the bottom of a surface vessel. Unlike LBL and SBL systems, which determine position by measuring multiple distances, the USBL transducer array is used to measure the target \"distance\" from the transducer pole by using signal run time, and the target \"direction\" by measuring the phase shift of the reply signal as seen by the individual elements of the transducer array. The combination of distance and direction fixes the position of the tracked target relative to the surface vessel. Additional sensors including GPS, a gyro or electronic compass and a vertical reference unit are then used to compensate for the changing position and orientation (pitch, roll, bearing) of the surface vessel and its transducer pole. USBL systems offer the advantage of not requiring a sea floor transponder array. The disadvantage is that positioning accuracy and robustness is not as good as for LBL systems. The reason is that the fixed angle resolved by a USBL system translates to a larger position error at greater distance. Also, the multiple sensors needed for the USBL transducer pole position and orientation compensation each introduce additional errors. Finally, the non-uniformity of the underwater acoustic environment cause signal refractions and reflections that have a greater impact on USBL positioning than is the case for the LBL geometry.\n\nShort-baseline (SBL) systems use a baseline consisting of three or more individual sonar transducers that are connected by wire to a central control box. Accuracy depends on transducer spacing and mounting method. When a wider spacing is employed as when working from a large working barge or when operating from a dock or other fixed platform, the performance can be similar to LBL systems. When operating from a small boat where transducer spacing is tight, accuracy is reduced. Like USBL systems, SBL systems are frequently mounted on boats and ships, but specialized modes of deployment are common too. For example, the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution uses a SBL system to position the Jason deep-ocean ROV relative to its associated MEDEA depressor weight with a reported accuracy of 9 cm\n\nGPS intelligent buoys (GIB) systems are inverted LBL devices where the transducers are replaced by floating buoys, self-positioned by GPS. The tracked position is calculated in realtime at the surface from the Time-Of-Arrival (TOAs) of the acoustic signals sent by the underwater device, and acquired by the buoys. Such configuration allow fast, calibration-free deployment with an accuracy similar to LBL systems. At the opposite of LBL, SBL or USBL systems, GIB systems use one-way acoustic signals from the emitter to the buoys, making it less sensitive to surface or wall reflections. GIB systems are used to track AUVs, torpedoes, or divers, may be used to localize airplanes black-boxes, and may be used to determine the impact coordinates of inert or live weapons for weapon testing and training purposes references: Sharm-El-Sheih, 2004; Sotchi, 2006; Kayers, 2005; Kayser, 2006; Cardoza, 2006 and others...).\n\nAn early use of underwater acoustic positioning systems, credited with initiating the modern day development of these systems, involved the loss of the American nuclear submarine USS \"Thresher\" on 10 April 1963 in a water depth of 2560m. An acoustic short baseline (SBL) positioning system was installed on the oceanographic vessel USNS \"Mizar\". This system was used to guide the bathyscaphe Trieste 1 to the wreck site. Yet, the state of the technology was still so poor that out of ten search dives by Trieste 1, visual contact was only made once with the wreckage. Acoustic positioning was again used in 1966, to aid in the search and subsequent recovery of a nuclear bomb lost during the crash of a B-52 bomber at sea off the coast of Spain.\n\nIn the 1970s, oil and gas exploration in deeper waters required improved underwater positioning accuracy to place drill strings into the exact position referenced earlier thorough seismic instrumentation and to perform other underwater construction tasks.\n\nBut, the technology also started to be used in other applications. In 1998, salvager Paul Tidwell and his company Cape Verde Explorations led an expedition to the wreck site of the World War 2 Japanese cargo submarine I-52 in the mid-Atlantic. Resting at a depth of 5240 meters, it had been located and then identified using side scan sonar and an underwater tow sled in 1995. War-time records indicated the I-52 was bound for Germany, with a cargo including 146 gold bars in 49 metal boxes. This time, Mr. Tidwell's company had hired the Russian oceanographic vessel, the \"Akademik Mstislav Keldysh\" with its two manned deep-ocean submersibles \"MIR-1\" and \"MIR-2\" (figure 3). In order to facilitate precise navigation across the debris field and assure a thorough search, \"MIR-1\" deployed a long baseline transponder network on the first dive. Over a series of seven dives by each submersible, the debris field was progressively searched. The LBL positioning record indicated the broadening search coverage after each dive, allowing the team to concentrate on yet unsearched areas during the following dive. No gold was found, but the positioning system had documented the extent of the search.\n\nIn recent years, several trends in underwater acoustic positioning have emerged. One is the introduction of compound systems such the combination of LBL and USBL in a so-called LUSBL configuration to enhance performance. These systems are generally used in the offshore oil & gas sector and other high-end applications. Another trend is the introduction of compact, task optimized systems for a variety of specialized purposes. For example, the California Department of Fish and Game commissioned a system (figure 4), which continually measures the opening area and geometry of a fish sampling net during a trawl. That information helps the department improve the accuracy of their fish stock assessments in the Sacramento River Delta.\n\n"}
{"id": "2916504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2916504", "title": "Zweites Buch", "text": "Zweites Buch\n\nThe Zweites Buch (, \"Second Book\"), unofficially published in English as Hitler's Secret Book and then officially Hitler's Second Book, is an unedited transcript of Adolf Hitler's thoughts on foreign policy written in 1928; it was written after \"Mein Kampf\" and was not published in his lifetime. The \"Zweites Buch\" was not published in 1928 because \"Mein Kampf\" did not sell well at that time and Hitler's publisher, Franz-Eher-Verlag, told Hitler that a second book would hinder sales even more.\n\n\nThere are a number of similarities and differences between \"Zweites Buch\" and \"Mein Kampf\". As in \"Mein Kampf\", Hitler declared that the Jews were his eternal and most dangerous opponents. As in \"Mein Kampf\", Hitler outlined what the German historian Andreas Hillgruber has called his \"Stufenplan\" (\"stage-by-stage plan\"). Hitler himself never used the term \"Stufenplan\", which was coined by Hillgruber in his 1965 book \"Hitlers Strategie\". Briefly, the \"Stufenplan\" called for three stages. In the first stage, there would be a massive military build-up, the overthrow of the shackles of the Treaty of Versailles, and the forming of alliances with Fascist Italy and the British Empire. The second stage would be a series of fast, \"lightning wars\" in conjunction with Italy and the United Kingdom against France and whichever of her allies in Eastern Europe—such as Czechoslovakia, Poland, Romania and Yugoslavia—chose to stand by her. The third stage would be a war to obliterate what Hitler considered to be the \"Judeo-Bolshevik\" regime in the Soviet Union.\n\nIn contrast to \"Mein Kampf\", in \"Zweites Buch\" Hitler added a fourth stage to the \"Stufenplan\". He insinuated that in the far future a struggle for world domination might take place between the United States and a European alliance comprising a new association of nations, consisting of individual states with high national value. \"Zweites Buch\" also offers a different perspective on the U.S. than that outlined in \"Mein Kampf\". In the latter, Hitler declared that Germany's most dangerous opponent on the international scene was the Soviet Union; in \"Zweites Buch\", Hitler declared that for immediate purposes, the Soviet Union was still the most dangerous opponent, but that in the long-term, the most dangerous potential opponent was the United States.\n\nIn the first two chapters Hitler proclaims the balance between population and natural resources to be the main focus of any nation, and he gives it a far-reaching and detailed analysis.\n\nThe starting point of his analysis is the \"struggle for daily bread\" (food production) as the basis of human society. From this need for self-preservation, he develops his central idea of the relationship between the population and the size of the habitat of a people. If the habitat cannot provide sufficient resources for survival, degeneration and a decline of the nation results. Hitler raises the struggle for adequate habitat to a central principle of human history. Hitler points out that this battle is often enforced militarily, as history has adequately demonstrated.\n\nAs solutions to the struggle for living space, Hitler considers birth control, emigration of the population, increased food production, and increased exports to buy additional food. All of these alternatives he finds problematic. Birth control and emigration he believes leads to a weakening of the nation, as people are the true life-blood of the nation. The increase of food production he declares to be fundamentally limited by a finite amount of productive land. Greater exports he discards because it leads to increased market competition with other nations, making Germany dependent on outside nations and therefore leading to the situation Germany faced with the start of World War I in 1914. Hitler revisits these arguments several times in subsequent chapters.\n\nIn the other chapters Hitler developed his thoughts on the future National Socialist foreign policy that serves the struggle for living space. As in \"Mein Kampf\", Hitler explains that the Jews are the eternal and most dangerous opponents of the German people; he also outlines and elaborates on his future political plans.\n\nIn \"Mein Kampf\", Hitler mentioned the United States only occasionally and even with contempt. They were, to him, a \"racially degenerate\" society that will continue to see its demise. In his second book, however, Hitler describes the United States as a dynamic and \"racially successful\" society that has eugenics, racial segregation practices, and an exemplary immigration policy at the expense of \"inferior\" immigrants from Southern and Eastern Europe. Why this change occurred in Hitler's attitude between 1924 and 1928 is unknown. Historians have noted that Hitler was notoriously poorly informed about the world outside Germany and, at the time of the writing of \"Mein Kampf\", he probably knew little about the United States. Hitler's knowledge of the U.S. came especially from the Western novels of Karl May he read. This seems to have changed by 1928; Hitler would have heard of the prosperity and industrialization in the United States, as well as the Immigration Act of 1924, racial segregation, and the forced sterilization concept for supposedly mentally retarded people in several states. Hitler stated his admiration for such measures, as well as his wish that Germany should adopt similar policies on a larger scale.\n\nHitler stated that National Socialist foreign policy was to be based on Lebensraum for the German people:\nOf all of Germany's potential enemies comprising the Allies of World War II, Hitler ranked the U.S. as the most dangerous. By contrast, Hitler saw the United Kingdom as a fellow \"Aryan\" power that in exchange for Germany's renunciation of naval and colonial ambitions would ally itself with Germany. France, in Hitler's opinion, was rapidly \"Negroizing\" itself. In regard to the Soviet Union, Hitler dismissed the Russian people as being Slavic \"Untermenschen\" (\"sub-humans\") incapable of intelligent thought. Hitler consequently believed that the Russian people were ruled by what he regarded as a gang of bloodthirsty but inept Jewish revolutionaries.\n\nIn \"Zweites Buch\", Hitler called for an Anglo-German alliance based on political expediency as well as the notion that the two Germanic powers were natural allies. In \"Zweites Buch\", Hitler argued that the alleged British striving for a balance of power leading to an Anglo-German alliance would not conflict with his goal of Germany being the dominant continental power because it was wrong to believe that \"England fought every hegemonic power immediately\", but rather was prepared to accept dominant states whose aims were \"obviously and purely continental in nature\". Hitler went on to write that \"Of course no one in Britain will conclude an alliance for the good of Germany, but only in the furtherance of British interests.\" Nonetheless, because Hitler believed that there was an ongoing struggle between the \"Jewish invasion\" and the \"old British tradition\" for the control of the United Kingdom, Hitler believed the chances for Anglo-German alliance to be good provided the \"Jewish invasion\" was resisted successfully. Hitler hedged somewhat, however, by claiming that\n\nThe book was said to be \"pirated\", poorly translated in English, and then unofficially published as \"Hitler's Secret Book\" in 1962. More than forty years later, it was re-released \"officially\" in 2003 as \"Hitler's Second Book\" with newer translation by Gerhard Weinberg.\n\n\nBibliography\n\n"}
