{"id": "30046591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30046591", "title": "Adorján Czipleá", "text": "Adorján Czipleá\n\nAdorján Czipleá (1639–1664) was a Hungarian Christian Kabbalist and mystic. Not much is known about his life except for the fact that in 1662 – after some years of formal education in his native country – he journeyed to England in order to continue his philosophical and theological studies. There is no knowledge regarding the circumstances of his death, which occurred within two years after his arrival.\n\nWhile in England, Czipleá wrote a controversial short treatise entitled \"De ente et malo\" (\"On Being and Evil\") which circulated among a narrow group of prominent European intellectuals including, among others, Henry More, Joseph Glanvill, Thomas Vaughan and Franciscus Mercurius van Helmont. Although this work appears to be lost, records of its radical views (indictable for heresy at the time) survived in contemporary accounts of it. Probably the most detailed of these accounts is found in Méric Casaubon's letter to Edward Stillingfleet, dated September 1670:\n\nScholarly interest in his idiosyncratic mysticism has only recently begun to emerge. Speculation regarding Czipleá's Hermetic and Kabbalistic sources ranges from John Dee, Pico della Mirandola and Johann Reuchlin, while attention has been drawn to his possible influence on the Cambridge Platonists and Metaphysical Poets.\n"}
{"id": "54161461", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54161461", "title": "Aethra (mother of Theseus)", "text": "Aethra (mother of Theseus)\n\nIn Greek mythology, Aethra or Aithra (, , , the \"bright sky\") was a daughter of King Pittheus of Troezen and sister of Henioche. She was the mother of Theseus (his father was the king Aegeus of Athens, or in some versions, Poseidon) and of Clymene (by Hippalces). Aethra was also called Pittheis after her father Pittheus.\n\nBellerophon came to Troezen to ask Aethra's father, Pittheus for the maiden's hand in marriage, but the hero was banished from Corinth before the nuptials took place.\n\nKing Aegeus who was childless with his previous marriages went to Troezen, a city southwest of Athens that had as its patrons Athena and Poseidon. Here Pittheus got Aegeus drunk on unmixed wine and put him to bed with his daughter. Following the instructions of Athena in a dream, she left the sleeping Aegeus and waded across to the island of Sphairia that lay close to Troezen's shore. There she poured a libation to Sphairos, Pelops' charioteer, and was raped by Poseidon in the night. Aethra was therefore impregnated by both Aegeus and Poseidon in the process. According to Plutarch, her father spread this report merely that Theseus might be regarded as the son of Poseidon, who was much revered at Troezen. This opinion, however, is nothing else but an attempt to strip the genuine story of its marvels. Aethra, later on dedicated in the island of Sphairia a temple to Athena Apaturia (the Deceitful), and called the island Hiera instead of Sphaeria, and also introduced among the maidens of Troezen the custom of dedicating their girdles to Athena Apaturia on the day of their marriage. At a later time, when Aethra was thus doubly pregnant, Aegeus decided to go back to Athens. Before leaving, he covered his sandals, shield and sword under a huge rock, that served as a primitive altar to Strong Zeus, and told her that when their son would grow up, he should move the rock and bring his weapons back. Aethra did as she was told, and Theseus, recovering the weapons that were his birthright, grew to be a great hero, killing the Minotaur, among other adventures.\n\nLater, when Theseus kidnapped Helen, he gave her to Aethra for safekeeping. Helen's brothers, the Dioscuri, took Helen back and kidnapped Aethra to Lacedaemon in revenge. There she became a slave of Helen with whom she went to Troy and remained there until found by her grandson, Acamas. At the taking of Troy she came to the camp of the Greeks, where she was recognised by her grandsons, and Demophon, one of them, asked Agamemnon to procure her liberation. Agamemnon accordingly sent a messenger to Helen to request her to give up Aethra. This was granted, and Aethra became free again. According to Hyginus, she afterwards put an end to her own life from grief at the death of her sons. The history of her bondage to Helen was represented on the celebrated chest of Cypselus, and in a painting by Polygnotus in the Lesche of Delphi.\n\nWith significant alterations to the character, a version of this Aethra appears (as \"Aithra\"), a sorceress and concubine of Poseidon, in Richard Strauss's famous opera \"Die ägyptische Helena\" (The Egyptian Helen).\n\n"}
{"id": "57741002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57741002", "title": "Akhtem Seitablayev", "text": "Akhtem Seitablayev\n\nAkhtem Seitablayev (; born 11 December 1972 in Yangiyo‘l, Uzbek SSR) is a Crimean-Tatar actor, screenwriter, and film director based in Ukraine. He is the director of several high-profile films, including \"Haytarma\" in 2013 and \"Another's Prayer\" in 2017\".\" He has expressed opposition to the annexation of Crimea by the Russian Federation and his films about the fate of several prominent Crimean Tatars have been criticized by Russian news outlets.\n\nSeitablayev was born in 1972 in Yangiyo‘l, then part of the Uzbek SSR. His parents were deported to Uzbekistan in the Sürgün since Crimean Tatars were one of the ten ethnic groups to experience collective punishment of exile in the Stalin era. He attended school in Uzbekistan and remained in exile with his family until they moved back to Crimea during the Perestroika era in 1989, where he began his film career in 1992 after graduating from the Crimean Cultural Enlightenment School.\n\nFrom 1992 to 2004 he worked at the Simferopol State Crimean Tatar Theater, where he directed several plays including works of Alexander Pushkin. In 2005 he began working at the Kiev Academic Theatre of Drama and Comedy on the left-bank of Dnieper. In 2009 he directed his first film, \"Quartet for Two.\" In 2013 he directed the movie \"Haytarma\" (English: Return) based on the real life of Amet-khan Sultan, a Crimean Tatar flying ace and twice Hero of the Soviet Union who witnessed the Sürgün but managed to avoid deportation due to his father's Lak ancestory and the intervention of Timofey Khryukin, commander of the 8th Air Army. The film was praised by the \"Kiev Post\" as \"must-see for history enthusiasts\" and criticized by \"Komsomolskaya Pravda\" for depicting the organizers of the deportation in a bad light.\n\nFrom 2016 to 2017 he directed Another's Prayer, based on the real life of Saide Arifova, a kindergarten director who saved over 80 Jewish children during the Holocaust by switching their ethnicity listing and teaching them to imitate Crimean Tatar customs and language to hide them from the Gestapo. Eventually the Nazis suspected she was involved in hiding Jewish children and tortured her, but she refused to betray any names. After the Red Army retook control of Crimea she saved them again by explaining to the NKVD that the children were Jewish, not Crimean Tatar, and hence were allowed to stay in Crimea instead of being deported to the desert. The film debuted on 18 May 2017, the anniversary of the Sürgün. Originally the film was supposed to be filmed in Crimea, but after the annexation of Crimea by the Russian Federation in 2014 it was decided that the filming would be done in mainland Ukraine and Georgia.\n\nOn 29 May 2018, he released a statement in support of Oleg Sentsov, a film director arrested in Russian-controlled Crimea. He is married to actress Ivanna Dyadyur, and has three children.\n"}
{"id": "1859921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1859921", "title": "Alexandre Stavisky", "text": "Alexandre Stavisky\n\nSerge Alexandre Stavisky (November 20, 1886, Ukraine – January 8, 1934, Chamonix) was a French financier and embezzler whose actions created a political scandal that became known as the Stavisky Affair.\n\nAlexandre Stavisky was a Polish Jew born in modern-day Ukraine whose Russian parents had moved to France.\n\nStavisky tried various professions, working as a café singer, as a nightclub manager, as a worker in a soup factory, and as the operator of a gambling den. He received French citizenship in 1910. In the 1930s he managed municipal pawnshops in Bayonne but also moved in financial circles. He sold lots of worthless bonds and financed his \"hockshop\" on the surety of what he called the emeralds of the late Empress of Germany — which later turned out to be glass. In 1927, Stavisky was put on trial for fraud for the first time, charged with a 6 million pound fraud. However, the trial was postponed again and again, and he was granted bail 19 times.\n\nFaced with exposure in December 1933, Stavisky fled. On 8 January 1934, the police found him in a Chamonix chalet dying from two gunshot wounds to the head. Surgeons struggled to save him but he died early in the hours of January 9. Officially, Stavisky committed suicide, but historians generally agree he was murdered to keep him silent.\n\nIn the aftermath there were many riots on the streets of Paris, resulting in 250 arrests on January 10 as news of government involvement in the financial scandal broke. The French premier Camille Chautemps was forced to resign owing to the number of ministers wrapped up in the affair, and rumours that he had ordered Stavisky's assassination. An official public enquiry was ordered into the affair. Shortly before it began a senior judge, Albert Prince, who was due to be a witness, was found murdered on a railway line near Dijon, having been tricked to go there from Paris by means of a bogus telegram claiming his mother was very ill.\n\nStavisky died on January 8, 1934, Chamonix. He was buried in Père Lachaise Cemetery.\n\nIn \"Forces occultes\", a film commissioned in 1942 by the \"Propaganda Abteilung\", a delegation of Nazi Germany's propaganda ministry within occupied France, Stavisky was presented as both a Freemason and a crook. In 1974, film director Alain Resnais told the story in the film \"Stavisky...\" that featured Jean-Paul Belmondo in the title role and Anny Dupérey as his wife Arlette.\n\n"}
{"id": "40274026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40274026", "title": "Alison Jaggar", "text": "Alison Jaggar\n\nAlison Mary Jaggar (born September 23, 1942) is an American feminist philosopher born in England. She is currently College Professor of Distinction in the Philosophy and Women and Gender Studies departments at the University of Colorado, Boulder and Distinguished Research Professor at the University of Birmingham in the United Kingdom. She was one of the first people to introduce feminist concerns in to philosophy. \n\nBorn in Sheffield, England, Jaggar earned a bachelor's degree in philosophy at Bedford College, University of London in 1964 and a master's degree in philosophy from the University of Edinburgh in 1967. She completed her doctorate in philosophy from the State University of New York (SUNY), Buffalo in 1970.\n\nDuring her career, Jaggar has held appointments at SUNY Buffalo, Miami University, the University of Cincinnati, the University of Illinois at Chicago, the University of California, Los Angeles, Rutgers University, Victoria University of Wellington, the University of Oslo, and the University of Birmingham. From 1994–1997, she was director of the Women’s Studies department at the University of Colorado at Boulder. She later served as Graduate Director and Associate Chair of the Philosophy department at the university from 2004–2008. From 2007–2014, she worked as a Research Coordinator at the Centre for the Study of Mind in Nature at the University of Oslo in Norway.\n\nA founding member of the Society for Women in Philosophy, she was instrumental in the creation of the field of feminist studies, and taught what she believes to have been the first feminist philosophy course ever offered. A co-founder of \"Hypatia: A Journal of Feminist Philosophy\", Jaggar was a member of the editorial board from 1983–2009 and Associate Editor from 2006–2008. She chaired the American Philosophical Association (APA) Committee on the Status of Women from 1986–1991 and served as co-president of the North American Society for Social Philosophy from 1995–1997.\n\nJaggar has been awarded research fellowships from the National Endowment for the Humanities, the Rockefeller Foundation, American Association of University Women (AAUW), the University of Edinburgh, the Norwegian Research Council and the Australian Research Council. She has served on the editorial boards of \"Against the Current\", \"Hypatia: A Journal of Feminist Philosophy\", \n\"Radical Philosophy Review\", \"Asian Journal of Women’s Studies\", \"Journal of Social Philosophy\", \"Studies in Feminist Philosophy\", \"International Journal of Feminist Bioethics\", and \"Journal of International Critical Thought\".\n\nJaggar was elected a Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 2017.\n\nJaggar studies gender and globalization using normative, methodological, and epistemological perspectives. She has published several articles identifying \"how global institutions and policies interact with local practices to create gendered cycles of vulnerability and exploitation\" and its influence on policy. She has helped develop a new poverty measure that evaluates how gender influences and is impacted by poverty.\n\nHer work has been hugely influential, with Rosemarie Tong and Nancy Williams suggesting in the \"Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy\" that \"If ethics is about human beings' liberation, then Alison Jaggar's summary of the fourfold function of feminist ethics cannot be improved upon in any significant way\" and Jaggar's texts being considered classics.\n\nJaggar has authored a large number of widely cited papers, most notably \"Love and knowledge: Emotion in feminist epistemology\", published in 1989 and cited by at least 800 other peer-reviewed papers as of August 2013. Jaggar has also acted as co-editor for the first issue of \"Telos\", and was a co-founder and associate editor of \"Hypatia: A Journal of Feminist Philosophy\" from 2006 to 2008.\n\nJaggar has written one book, edited seven books, and co-authored two: \n\nAs of August 2013, \"Feminist Politics and Human Nature\" had been cited by more than 2,000 peer-reviewed papers.\n"}
{"id": "31541316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31541316", "title": "Amod Cassimjee", "text": "Amod Cassimjee\n\nAmod Cassimjee was born and educated in Surat, India. He arrived in South Africa in 1895 and settled in Pietermaritzburg.\n\nHe joined his brother Suleman, trading as Suleman Cassimjee & Co. for a few years. Amod then established his first business in Kranskop. Amod later returned to Pietermaritzburg and entered into partnership as Amod Mahomed & Co. The partnership was dissolved in 1913 and Amod Cassimjee assumed his sole ownership of the business and traded under his own name. It was one of the best known firms in Upper Church Street in the African trade with a European department boasting a large clientele. Also entered the Shoe Manufacturing Field. One of the most colourful personalities in the City and popularly known by a wide African custom as \"Khandalemvu\". He was interested in all Indian activities and as a Grand Old man laid the foundation stone of the Mohammedian Oriental School. Attached to the Upper Church Street Mosque.\nAmod and Suleman Cassimjee formed a company called Suleman Cassimjee & Co. The business was started in Winterton, Kwa-Zulu Natal. Mahomed Cassimjee and Amod joined their brother in the company Suleman Cassimjee & Co. for a few years.\n\nAmod Cassimjee was keenly interested in the welfare of the Muslims as well as the Indian community as a whole. He laid the foundation for the establishment of the Muhammadan Oriental School (now Government-aided). He was ever prepared to assist all movements directed for the good of the community.\n\nAmod Cassimjee died on 16 May 1951 at the age of 80. He was buried in the Mountain Rise Cemetery in Pietermaritzburg, South Africa.\n"}
{"id": "38287670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38287670", "title": "Ashkan Soltani", "text": "Ashkan Soltani\n\nAshkan Soltani was the Chief Technologist of the Federal Trade Commission. He was previously an independent privacy and security researcher, based in Washington, DC.\n\nBetween 2010 and 2011, he worked for the US Federal Trade Commission as a staff technologist in the Division of Privacy and Identity Protection, where he assisted with the investigations of Google and Facebook. He has also worked as the primary technical consultant to the \"Wall Street Journal\"'s What They Know series investigating online privacy.\n\nIn 2011, he testified at two different hearings held by US Senate committees focused on privacy related matters. Julia Angwin, in her 2014 book \"Dragnet Nation\", describes Soltani as 'the leading technical expert on ad tracking technology'. He was part of the team at \"The Washington Post\" that shared the 2014 Pulitzer Prize for Public Service with \"The Guardian US\" for their coverage of the disclosures about surveillance done by the US National Security Agency.\n\nSoltani's first high-profile research project was a 2009 study, supported by the National Science Foundation's Team for Research in Ubiquitous Secure Computing, documenting the use of zombie Flash cookies by several online advertising networks. Soltani and his colleagues at Berkeley revealed that websites were recreating tracking cookies after consumers deleted them by storing the unique tracking identifiers in Flash cookies, which were not automatically deleted when consumers cleared their browser cookies.\n\nAfter the publication of Soltani's research, class action law firms filed suit against several advertising networks and websites. Quantcast, Clearspring and VideoEgg collectively agreed to pay a total of $3.4 million to settle the lawsuits.\n\nIn 2011, Soltani and Berkeley law professor Chris Hoofnagle published a follow-up study, documenting the use of web browser cache ETags to store persistent identifiers. As with the case of Flash cookies, the identifiers stored in the ETags persisted even after consumers deleted their browser cookies. The ETag tracking issue caught the attention of several members of Congress, who wrote to the Federal Trade Commission in September 2011 and urged the agency to investigate the use of advanced tracking technologies as a potentially unfair or deceptive business practice.\n\nSeveral companies performing ETag based tracking that were identified by the research team were subsequently sued by class action lawyers. In January 2013, KISSmetrics, an online advertising network, settled its ETag related lawsuit for $500,000.\n"}
{"id": "594445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=594445", "title": "Bette Nesmith Graham", "text": "Bette Nesmith Graham\n\nBette Nesmith Graham (March 23, 1924 – May 12, 1980) was an American typist, commercial artist, and the inventor of Liquid Paper. She was the mother of musician and producer Michael Nesmith of The Monkees.\n\nGraham was born Bette Clair McMurray, in Dallas, Texas, to Jesse McMurray, an automotive supply company manager, and Christine Duval. She was raised in San Antonio and graduated from Alamo Heights High School. She married Warren Audrey Nesmith (1919–1984) before he left to fight in World War II. While he was overseas she had a child (Robert Michael Nesmith, born December 30, 1942). After Warren Nesmith returned home, they divorced (1946). Her father died in the early 1950s, leaving some property in Dallas to Bette. She, her mother, Michael, and her sister Yvonne moved there. To support herself as a single mother, she worked as a secretary at Texas Bank and Trust. She eventually attained the position of the executive secretary, the highest position open at that time to women in the industry.\n\nIt was difficult to erase mistakes made by early electric typewriters, which caused problems. In order to make extra money she used her talent painting holiday windows at the bank. She realized, as she said, \"with lettering, an artist never corrects by erasing, but always paints over the error. So I decided to use what artists use. I put some tempera water-based paint in a bottle and took my watercolor brush to the office. I used that to correct my mistakes.\"\n\nGraham secretly used her white correction paint for five years, making some improvements with help from her son's chemistry teacher at Thomas Jefferson High School in Dallas. Some bosses admonished her against using it, but coworkers frequently sought her \"paint out\". She eventually began marketing her typewriter correction fluid as \"Mistake Out\" in 1956. The name was later changed to Liquid Paper when she began her own company.\n\nMistake Out started the 1960s operating at a small loss, with Nesmith's home doubling as company headquarters. As the product became an indispensable tool of the secretarial trade, Nesmith relocated production and shipping from her kitchen to a 10 feet-by-26 feet portable metal structure in her backyard, where packaging, shipping, and production were centered.\n\nBette Nesmith married Robert Graham in 1962; he joined her in running the company. They divorced in 1975.\n\nShe sold Liquid Paper to the Gillette Corporation for USD $47.5 million in 1979. At the time, her company employed 200 people and made 25 million bottles of Liquid Paper per year.\n\nBette Nesmith died on May 12, 1980, at the age of 56, in Richardson, Texas.\n\nFrom the start, Graham ran her company with a unique combination of spirituality, egalitarianism, and pragmatism. Raised a Methodist, Graham converted to Christian Science in 1942, and this faith inspired the development of her corporate \"Statement of Policy\". Part-code of ethics, part-business philosophy, it covered everything from her belief in a \"Supreme Being\" to a focus on decentralized decision making and an emphasis on product quality over profit motive. She also believed that women could bring a more nurturing and humanistic quality to the male world of business, and did so herself by including a greenbelt with a fish pond, an employee library, and a childcare center in her new company headquarters in 1975.\n\nHer only son, musician Michael Nesmith (best known as a member of The Monkees), inherited half of his mother's estate of over $50 million. A portion financed the Gihon Foundation which established the Council on Ideas, a think tank with a retreat center located north of Santa Fe, New Mexico active from 1990 to 2000 and devoted to exploring world problems. In 2018 \"The New York Times\" published a belated obituary for her.\n\n"}
{"id": "12714818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12714818", "title": "Children in the Holocaust", "text": "Children in the Holocaust\n\nChildren were especially vulnerable to Nazi murder or death in the era of the Holocaust. It is estimated that 1.5 million children, nearly all Jewish, were murdered during the Holocaust, either directly or as a direct consequence of Nazi actions.\nThe Nazis advocated killing children of \"unwanted\" or \"dangerous\" groups in accordance with their ideological views, either as part of the \"racial struggle\" or as a measure of preventive security. The Nazis particularly targeted Jewish children, but also targeted ethnically Polish children, Romani (Gypsy) children, and children with mental or physical defects (disabled children). The Germans and their collaborators killed children both for these ideological reasons and in retaliation for real or alleged partisan attacks. Early killings were encouraged by the Nazis in action T4, where children with disabilities were gassed using carbon monoxide, starved to death, given phenol injections to the heart, or hanged.\n\nThis article deals with those 1,500,000 children, nearly all Jewish, who were killed by the Nazis. A much smaller number were saved. Some simply survived, often in a ghetto, occasionally in a concentration camp. Some were saved in various programs like the Kindertransport and the One Thousand Children in which children fled their homeland. Other children were saved by becoming Hidden Children. During and even before the war many vulnerable children were rescued by Œuvre de Secours aux Enfants (OSE).\n\nSegregation in schools began in April 1933 when the \"Law Against Overcrowding in German schools\" was enacted and a restriction was set allowing only 1.5 percent of Jewish children to be enrolled in public schools, this being a problem because 5 percent of the children in Germany were of Jewish descent. \nIt continued to get worse as German schools began to Aryanize. Jewish children were required to \"learn\" from different sources than their classmates. Also being subjected to worse grades than their Aryan peers whether or not their work was better. The Jewish children were not allowed to participate in most school activities, causing many to feel left out and segregated by children they once were friends with. As time passed most teachers became more enthusiastic about following the rules of Nazism and went from being quieter in their beliefs to using anti-Semitic terms in class. Poor treatment of Jewish children was more common in rural schools but even in large cities they faced animosity from their teachers and classmates.\n\nThis led to Jewish students feeling distant from their classmates and had different effects on different families. Some Jewish children began to form small strikes in their schools leaving without permission during hate speak during class, others tried to conform with no success, and some parents just took their children out of school. Many mothers were horrified to find out that their children were being emotionally and physically attacked by their classmates and teachers for being Jewish. Mothers were more likely to take their children out of school than fathers, seeing and hearing from their children the majority of what actually happened at school.\n\nEventually Jewish schools were built and the Jewish community jumped at the idea of their children being taught without fear of persecution, shown that only fourteen percent of Jewish children went to private school in 1932 to fifty-two percent in 1936. While most were happy that their children could learn, many parents feared that this is what the Nazi party wanted all along, segregation of the Jewish community from the Aryan community.\n\nThe Germans and their collaborators killed as many as 2 million children, including over a million Jewish children, hundreds of thousands of Polish children, and tens of thousands of Romani children, moreover, children with physical and mental disabilities of various ethnicities living in institutions across the German-occupied Europe, or residing in the Soviet Union. Aside from Polish, Romani and Polish-Jewish children, many Jewish children from France, the Netherlands, Greece, Czechoslovakia, Hungary, Italy, Romania and other countries also died as a result of mass deportations. The chances for survival for Jewish and some non-Jewish adolescents (13–18 years old) were greater, as they could be deployed at forced labor. Although, the unfortunate other children (usually infants or children younger than adolescent age) were disposed of in killing chambers such as gas filled rooms, or merely shot, to fulfill the German's \"Final Solution\" to exterminate the Jews.\n\nThe Germans believed the Jews to be impure and wished to wipe out their whole population or make them slaves. This is when they invented things such as concentration camps and gas chambers. Most going to these were the surviving adults or older teenagers because children couldn't work, therefore they were useless. Inside the concentration camps the presence of children was virtually nonexistent; they were either killed before they got into the camp, sent into gas chambers or shot in front of a mass grave ditch. There were also some experiments on children, especially if they were twins, but when the Holocaust ended and the Red Army found the 9,000 survivors, only 451 of them were children.\n\nThe fate of Jewish and non-Jewish children can be categorized in the following ways:\n\nIn the ghettos, which the Germans established early in the war in many Polish towns and cities such as Warsaw and Łódź, Jewish children died from starvation and exposure as well as lack of adequate clothing and shelter. The German authorities were indifferent to this mass death because they considered most of the younger ghetto children to be unproductive and hence \"useless eaters\". Indeed, the Germans deliberately restricted the food available to the strictly controlled ghettos under their control. The ghettos were liquidated from 1942 onwards, and their inhabitants murdered at various death camps. Because children were generally too young to be deployed as forced labor, the German authorities generally selected them, along with the elderly, ill, and disabled, for the first deportations to killing centers, or as the first victims led to mass graves to be shot. The children that were healthy enough for the labor were often worked to death doing jobs to benefit the camp, but sometimes children were forced to do unnecessary jobs like digging ditches.\n\nNon-Jewish children from certain targeted groups were not spared. Examples include Romani (Gypsy) children killed in Auschwitz concentration camp; 5,000 to 7,000 children killed as victims of the \"euthanasia\" program; children murdered in reprisals, including most of the children of Lidice; and children in villages in the occupied Soviet Union who were killed with their parents.\n\nThe German authorities also incarcerated a number of children in concentration camps and transit camps. SS physicians and medical researchers used a number of children, including twins, in concentration camps for medical experiments that often resulted in the deaths of the children. Concentration camp authorities deployed adolescents, particularly Jewish adolescents, at forced labor in the concentration camps, where many died because of conditions. The German authorities held other children under appalling conditions in transit camps, such as the case of Anne Frank and her sister in Bergen-Belsen, and non-Jewish orphaned children whose parents the German military and police units had killed in so-called anti-partisan operations. Some of these orphans were held temporarily in the Majdanek concentration camp and other detention camps.\n\nIn their \"search to retrieve 'Aryan blood',\" or the perfect race, SS race experts ordered hundreds of children in occupied Poland and the occupied Soviet Union to be kidnapped and transferred to the Reich to be adopted by racially suitable German families. Although the basis for these decisions was \"race-scientific,\" often blond hair, blue eyes, or fair skin was sufficient to merit the \"opportunity\" to be \"Germanized.\" On the other hand, female Poles and Soviet civilians who had been deported to Germany for forced labor and who had had sexual relations with a German man—often under duress—resulting in pregnancy were forced to have abortions or to bear their children under conditions that would ensure the infant's death, if the \"race experts\" determined that the child would have insufficient German blood.\n\nTransit camps were temporary stops on the way to concentration camps during the Holocaust. Many children were brought with their families to transit camps, unsure of what awaited them. Some were filled with the hope of starting a new life and making friends in the camps, while many others were scared. Children brought to the transit camps came from all different backgrounds. But the reality of transit camps became apparent.\n\nChildren carried on with their lives in transit camps while bare bodies and metal frames for beds surrounded them. There was a lack of food, a fear of trains coming for deportation, and no school supplies. Children began to see their parents in a different light because each family member dealt with hardships during their time in the transit camps.\n\nChildren had few resources in place at the transit camps to help foster growth. A group of Hungarian Zionists made a rescue committee to negotiate and prevent deportations. Older girls were called upon to take care of the young children. Physicians, nurses, and musicians organized lectures, concerts, and activities for the children. Voluntary interns and philanthropic organizations supplied food, clothing, and organized secretive teaching rooms to help the kids continue their education. Child care workers taught the children about the ideas of Zionism, the spirit of democracy, and an affectionate atmosphere. These groups also did their best to ease the hunger issues in the camps. Overall, life in transit camps were a gradual adjustment to the abnormal. They learned to live their daily lives while learning to deal with hunger and fear.\n\nChildren were exposed to experimentation at other camps, especially at Auschwitz, where Joseph Mengele was active. Mengele's research subjects were better fed and housed than other prisoners and temporarily safe from the gas chambers. He established a kindergarten for children that were the subjects of experiments, along with all Gypsy children under the age of six. The facility provided better food and living conditions than other areas of the camp, and even included a playground. When visiting his child subjects, he introduced himself as \"Uncle Mengele\" and offered them sweets. But he was also personally responsible for the deaths of an unknown number of victims that he killed via lethal injection, shootings, beatings, and through selections and deadly experiments. Lifton describes Mengele as sadistic, lacking empathy, and extremely antisemitic, believing the Jews should be eliminated entirely as an inferior and dangerous race. Mengele's son Rolf said his father later showed no remorse for his wartime activities.\n\nA former Auschwitz prisoner doctor said:\n\nMengele had a particular fascination with twins for multiple reasons. He was interested in the difference between identical and fraternal twins as well as how genetic diseases affected them and where they originated. The experiments also served to distinguish between genetic traits and those developed by the environment of the child. Mengele was known to pretend to be off duty while a train of new prisoners arrived, just so he could personally select any twins he saw. The concentration camps were the ideal environment for Mengele to perform his experiments to the extent he wished, since there were little to no regulations. This, combined with the fact that he was extremely anti-semitic allowed him to treat his victims as if they weren’t human. Twins were his preferred subjects for his experiments because he had a fascination with genetic conditions. This is why he also operated on children born with two different colored eyes, a condition known as heterochromia. His goal in his studies was partly to find genetic weaknesses in the makeup of Jewish or Roma people to back up the prejudices held by the Nazi party. Mengele hypothesized that his subjects were particularly vulnerable to certain diseases because of their race. In addition to that, he believed they had degenerative blood and tissue based on his samples.\n\nTwins were subjected to weekly examinations and measurements of their physical attributes by Mengele or one of his assistants. Experiments performed by Mengele on twins included unnecessary amputation of limbs, intentionally infecting one twin with typhus or other diseases, and transfusing the blood of one twin into the other. Many of the victims died while undergoing these procedures. After an experiment was over, the twins were sometimes killed and their bodies dissected. Nyiszli recalled one occasion where Mengele personally killed fourteen twins in one night via a chloroform injection to the heart. If one twin died of disease, Mengele killed the other so that comparative post-mortem reports could be prepared.\n\nMengele's experiments with eyes included attempts to change eye color by injecting chemicals into the eyes of living subjects and killing people with heterochromatic eyes so that the eyes could be removed and sent to Berlin for study. His experiments on dwarfs and people with physical abnormalities included taking physical measurements, drawing blood, extracting healthy teeth, and treatment with unnecessary drugs and X-rays. Many of the victims were sent to the gas chambers after about two weeks, and their skeletons were sent to Berlin for further study. Mengele sought out pregnant women, on whom he would perform experiments before sending them to the gas chambers. Witness Vera Alexander described how he sewed two Gypsy twins together back to back in an attempt to create conjoined twins. The children died of gangrene after several days of suffering.\n\nDuring the existence of Independent State of Croatia, the Croatian Ustaše established numerous concentration camps like those in Jasenovac, Đakovo, and Jastrebarsko in which many Serbian, Jewish and Romani children have died as inmates. Among them, there was Sisak concentration camp which was specially formed for children, created as a part of Jasenovac concentration camp.\n\nSisak children's concentration camp was founded on 3 August 1942 following the Kozara Offensive. It was part of an assembly camp, officially named the \"Refugee Transit Camp\". This concentration camp consisted of special part officially called \"Shelter for the refugee children\" which were under the auspices of the \"Ustasha Female Lineage\" and \"Ustasha Security Service\", and under the direct control of Dr. Antun Najžer. The camp was located in several buildings in Sisak; former \"Yugoslav Falconry Association\" (the so-called \"Sokolana\"), \"Sisters of St. Vincent nunnery\", saltwork Rice warehouse, Rajs Saltworks warehouse, Novi Sisak elementary school and the so-called \"Karantena\" (Quarantine). All these buildings were utterly unsuitable for the housing of children. For example, in the Falconry association, there were no doors; it was drafty because the whole construction was set up for drying the salt. Children, even the smallest ones who were only a few months old, had to lie on the floor with only a thin layer of straw, without any clothes or blankets.\n\nThe first group of children arrived on 3 August 1942; there were 906 of them. The very next day another group of 650 children was brought; in the third group (arrived on 6 August ) was 1,272 children. In Teslic glasshouse and the newly built barracks, named \"Karantena\", a general concentration camp for men, women, and children had been established. During August and September 1942, Ustaše deprived 3,971 children of parents who were selected for forced labor in Nazi Germany. Thus from August 1942 to 8 February 1943, there were 6,693 detained children, mostly Serbs from Kozara, Kordun, and Slavonia. Despite the actions of Diana Budisavljević and tireless group of humanists – Jana Koh, Vera Luketić, Dragica Habazin, Ljubica and Vera Becić, Dr. Kamil Bresler, Ante Dumbović and sisters of the Red Cross, up to 40 children were dying every day.\n\nWhen typhus epidemic broke out, Dr. Najžer ordered the transfer of the infected children to the improvised hospital, which however increased mortality among the children.\n\nDr. Lazar Margulješ testified about conditions at the concentration camp: \"\"I've noticed that the food parcels sent by Red Cross have never been given to the imprisoned children. My duty as a medic was to research these small prisoners, therefore I often visited these places: \"Sokolana\" building, where the children laid on bare concrete or, if they had little luck, on a little straw. The so-called hospital, in a small school in Old Sisak, had no beds so the children were lying on the floor with a little distracted and contaminated straw matted with blood and excrement and covered with swarms of flies.\"\"\n\nJana Koh, former secretary of Croatian Red Cross stated following about the conditions in the Camp:\n\nTestimony of Jana Koh, the Croatian Red Cross secretary that time:\nThe barracks were connected by the corridors guarded by the Ustashas. Not far from the ambulance, from another barracks, the sad cries of the children were heard. There was set, on the bare floor, four hundred children: newborns, children from a few weeks or months, up to ten years of age. How many children came, and where they were dispatched, could no longer be found out. The children in the childrens barracks cried inexorably and were calling their mothers, who were only a few steps away from the children, but the fascist criminals did not let mothers to approach their children. Older children tell us through tears, that they can not calm the little ones, because they are hungry, there are no one to change diapers of the little ones, and they are afraid that everyone will die. These children, who have not yet reached the age of ten, swear to us, \"Come on, sister, bring us mothers, bring at least mothers to these little ones. You will see, if you do not bring them their mothers, they will suffocate, by the tears alone.\"\nCoroner Dr. David Egić officially recorded that out of 6,693 children, 1,152 died in the Camp, while teacher Ante Dumbović later claimed that the number was 1,630.\n\nIn spite of their acute vulnerability, many children discovered ways to survive. Children smuggled food and medicines into the ghettos, after smuggling personal possessions to trade for them out of the ghettos. Children in youth movements later participated in underground resistance activities. Many children escaped with parents or other relatives—and sometimes on their own—to family camps run by Jewish partisans.\n\nBetween 1938 and 1939, the Kindertransport (Children's Transport) was a rescue effort, organized by the British government in cooperation with Jewish organizations, which brought about 10,000 refugee Jewish children (but importantly, without their parents) to safety in Great Britain from Nazi Germany and German-occupied territories. Likewise, Youth Aliyah (Youth Immigration) was responsible for integrating thousands of children into life in Palestine as a means for their survival as well as the revitalization of the Yishuv (Jewish settlement in Palestine).\n\nHidden Children: Some non-Jews hid Jewish children and sometimes, as in the case of Anne Frank, hid other family members as well. Sometimes they were actually hidden; in other cases they were \"adopted\" into the family of the heroic well-doer. And see the work of Œuvre de Secours aux Enfants.\n\nA unique case of hiding: in France, almost the entire Protestant population of Le Chambon-sur-Lignon, as well as many Catholic priests, nuns, and lay Catholics, hid Jewish children in the town from 1942 to 1944. In Italy and Belgium, many children survived in hiding.\n\nAfter the surrender of Nazi Germany, ending World War II, refugees and displaced persons searched throughout Europe for missing children. Thousands of orphaned children were in displaced persons camps. Many surviving Jewish children fled eastern Europe as part of the mass exodus (Brihah) to the western zones of occupied Germany, en route to the Yishuv. Youth Aliyah continued its activities after the war by helping child survivors to move to the Palestine, and the newly created state of Israel after 1948.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26406481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26406481", "title": "Daud Yordan", "text": "Daud Yordan\n\nDaud \"Cino\" Yordan (born 10 June 1987) is an Indonesian professional boxer and the former IBO Featherweight and Lightweight Champion. He is now the WBO Asia-Pacific and Africa Lightweight Champion. He is ranked 10th in the Lightweight division according to BoxRec. His main aim right now is to win the WBO Lightweight Title.\n\nDaud was born in Ketapang, West Borneo, Indonesia on 10 June 1987. He is the fifth child of six children to Hermanus Lai Cun, a Chinese father and Natalia, a Dayak mother.\n\nHis former trainer, Carlos Jesus Penate Torres from Cuba give his nickname \"Cino\" (\"Chino\" in Spanish). Since then he is always known by the nickname.\n\nYordan fought for the WBA featherweight title against Chris John on 17 April 2011 held at the Jakarta International Expo, Kemayoran, Central Jakarta where he lost by unanimous decision.\n\nYordan won the vacant International Boxing Organization featherweight title by defeating Lorenzo Villanueva at Marina Bay Sands, Singapore on 5 May 2012.\n\n!Result\n!Record\n!Opponent\n!Type\n!Round, time\n!Date\n!Location\n!Notes\n"}
{"id": "231570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=231570", "title": "Desi", "text": "Desi\n\nDesi are the people, cultures, and products of the Indian subcontinent and their diaspora, derived from Ancient Sanskrit \"देश (deśá)\", meaning \"Land\" or \"Country\". As \"desi\" is a loose term, countries that are considered \"desi\" are subjective; however, it is often accepted that India, Pakistan and Bangladesh are Desi countries.\n\nThe ethnonym belongs in the endonymic category (i.e., it is a self-appellation). \"Desi\" is an Indian term that ultimately originates in the ' (Sanskrit ) \"region, province, country\". The first known usage of the Sanskrit word is found in the \"Natya Shastra\" (~200 BCE), where it defines the regional varieties of folk performing arts, as opposed to the classical, pan-Indian \"margi\". Thus, ' () refers to one's own country or homeland, while \"\" () refers to another's country or a foreign land.\n\nWhile the original Sanskrit word meant 'country', with time its usage shifted more towards referring to people, cultures, and products of a specific region; for example, desi food, desi calendars, and desi dress.\n\nDesi contrasts with the Hindustani language word \"vilāyati\" (Anglicised as \"Blighty\"), which originally referred only to Britain (during the British rule \"vilāyat\", an Arabic-origin word meaning 'state', signified Britain) but may also refer more generally to anything that is European or Western. People from the subcontinent living in \"vilāyat\" (Britain) or in other Western countries refer to themselves and their ethnic culture as \"desi\". The \"desi/vilāyati\" pair of antonyms is widely used in subcontinent languages (Hindi, Urdu, Punjabi, Bengali etc.).\n\nAfter the passage of the Immigration and Nationality Act of 1965, the United States dramatically increased immigration from the subcontinent. As increasing numbers of students from the subcontinent arrived in the U.S. and UK, their countries of origin were colloquially referred to as \"\". For example, all things Indian including Indian expatriates were referred to as \"desi\".\n\nSome second or third generation immigrants do not think of themselves as belonging to a particular nation, sub-culture, or caste, but as just plain South Asians or desis, especially as intermarriage between different South Asian diaspora communities increases.\n\nIn the U.S., as in other countries, some diaspora desis are creating a \"fusion\" culture, in which foods, fashions, music, and the like from many areas of South Asia are \"fused\" both with each other and with elements from Western culture. For example, urban desi is a genre of music formed by the fusion of traditional Indian and Western urban music. The growing demand of popular programming for South Asians caused MTV to launch the desi-targeted television channel MTV Desi.\n\nIn the UK, desi communities have continued the fusion culture which first emerged during the rule of the British Raj, influencing music, art, fashion and food. There are now dedicated radio stations catering to British-South Asians such as the BBC Asian Network.\n\nThe Natya Shastra refers to the regional varieties of folk dance and music elements as \"desi\", and states that these are meant as pure entertainment for common people, while the pan-Indian \"margi\" elements are to spiritually enlighten the audience. The medieval developments of the classical Indian dance and music led to the introduction of desi gharanas, in addition to the classical gharanas codified in Natya Shastra. The \"desi\" gharanas further developed into the present-day adavus. There is raga in Indian classical music known as desi.\n\nIn regions of the Indian subcontinent, \"desi\" in the context of food, implies 'native' or 'traditional'. Common examples are \"desi ghee\", which is the traditional clarified butter used in the Indian subcontinent as opposed to more processed fats such as vegetable oils. \"Desi chicken\" may mean a native breed of chicken. This word is also usually restricted to Sanskrit-derived (Indo-Aryan) languages.\n\nHeritage varieties of vegetables and other produce can also be qualified as \"desi\". \"Desi diet\" refers to a diet and food choices followed by Indians around the world. \"Desi daru\" refers to \"country liquor\", such as fenny, toddy and arrack. It is differentiated from Indian-made foreign liquor such as Indian made whisky, rum, vodka, etc.\n\nIn North America, \"desi cuisine\" or \"desi food\" most often refers to dishes commonly served in communities from the Indian subcontinent, especially Westernised restaurant dishes such as chicken tikka masala.\n"}
{"id": "8485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8485", "title": "Diego Maradona", "text": "Diego Maradona\n\nDiego Armando Maradona (, born 30 October 1960) is an Argentine retired professional footballer and current manager of Mexican second division club Dorados. Many in the sport, including football writers, players, and fans, regard him as one of the greatest football players of all time. He was joint FIFA Player of the 20th Century with Pelé. Maradona's vision, passing, ball control and dribbling skills was combined with his small stature (), giving him a low center of gravity which allowed him to maneuver better than most other football players; he would often dribble past multiple opposing players on a run. His presence and leadership on the field had a great effect on his team's general performance, while he would often be singled out by the opposition. A precocious talent, Maradona was given the nickname \"El Pibe de Oro\" (\"The Golden Boy\"), a name that stuck with him throughout his career.\n\nAn advanced playmaker who operated in the classic number 10 position, Maradona was the first player in football history to set the world record transfer fee twice, first when he transferred to Barcelona for a then world record £5 million, and second, when he transferred to Napoli for another record fee £6.9 million. He played for Argentinos Juniors, Boca Juniors, Barcelona, Napoli, Sevilla and Newell's Old Boys during his club career, and is most famous for his time at Napoli and Barcelona where he won numerous accolades. \n\nIn his international career with Argentina, he earned 91 caps and scored 34 goals. Maradona played in four FIFA World Cups, including the 1986 World Cup in Mexico where he captained Argentina and led them to victory over West Germany in the final, and won the Golden Ball as the tournament's best player. In the 1986 World Cup quarter final, he scored both goals in a 2–1 victory over England that entered football history for two different reasons. The first goal was an unpenalized handling foul known as the \"Hand of God\", while the second goal followed a dribble past five England players, voted \"Goal of the Century\" by FIFA.com voters in 2002.\n\nMaradona became coach of Argentina in November 2008. He was in charge of the team at the 2010 World Cup in South Africa before leaving at the end of the tournament. He coached Dubai-based club Al Wasl in the UAE Pro-League for the 2011–12 season. In 2017, Maradona became the coach of Fujairah before leaving at the end of the season. In May 2018, Maradona was announced as the new chairman of Belarusian club Dynamo Brest. He arrived in Brest and was presented by the club to start his duties in July. In September 2018 Maradona was appointed coach of Mexican club Dorados.\n\nDiego Armando Maradona was born on 30 October 1960, at the Policlínico (Polyclinic) Evita Hospital in Lanús, Buenos Aires Province, but raised in Villa Fiorito, a shantytown on the southern outskirts of Buenos Aires, Argentina, to a poor family that had moved from Corrientes Province. He was the first son after three daughters. He has two younger brothers, Hugo (\"el Turco\") and Raúl (Lalo), both of whom were also professional football players. \nHe was the fifth child and first son of Diego Maradona \"Chitoro\" (d. 2015) and Dalma Salvadora Franco 'Doña Tota' (1930–2011). Maradona's parents were both born and brought up in the town of Esquina in the north-east province of Corrientes Province, living only two hundred metres from each other on the banks of the Corriente River. In 1950, they left Esquina and settled in Buenos Aires. At age eight, Maradona was spotted by a talent scout while he was playing in his neighbourhood club Estrella Roja. He became a staple of \"Los Cebollitas\" (The Little Onions), the junior team of Buenos Aires's Argentinos Juniors. As a 12-year-old ball boy, he amused spectators by showing his wizardry with the ball during the halftime intermissions of first division games. He named Brazilian playmaker Rivelino and Manchester United winger George Best among his inspirations growing up.\n\nOn 20 October 1976, Maradona made his professional debut for Argentinos Juniors, 10 days before his 16th birthday. He entered to the pitch wearing the number 16 jersey, and after the game said, \"That day I felt I had held the sky in my hands.\" Maradona scored his first goal in the Primera División against Marplatense team San Lorenzo on 14 November 1976, two weeks after turning 16. Maradona spent five years at Argentinos Juniors, from 1976 to 1981, scoring 115 goals in 167 appearances before his US$ 4 million transfer to Boca Juniors. Maradona received offers to join other clubs, including River Plate who offered to make him the club's best paid player. Nevertheless, Maradona expressed his will to be transferred to Boca Juniors, the team he always wanted to play for.\n\nMaradona signed a contract with Boca Juniors on 20 February 1981. He made his debut two days later against Talleres de Córdoba, scoring twice in the club's 4–1 win. On 10 April, Maradona played his first \"Superclásico\" against River Plate at La Bombonera stadium. Boca defeated River 3–0 with Maradona scoring a goal after dribbling past Alberto Tarantini and Fillol. Despite the distrustful relationship between Maradona and Boca Juniors manager, Silvio Marzolini, Boca had a successful season, winning the league title after securing a point against Racing Club. That would be the only title won by Maradona in the Argentine domestic league.\n\nAfter the 1982 World Cup, in June, Maradona was transferred to Barcelona in Spain for a then world record fee of £5 million ($7.6 million). In 1983, under coach César Luis Menotti, Barcelona and Maradona won the Copa del Rey (Spain's annual national cup competition), beating Real Madrid, and the Spanish Super Cup, beating Athletic Bilbao. On 26 June 1983, Barcelona defeated Real Madrid on the road in one of the world's biggest club games, \"El Clásico\", a match where Maradona scored and became the first Barcelona player to be applauded by archrival Real Madrid fans. Maradona dribbled past Madrid goalkeeper Agustín, and as he approached the empty goal, he stopped just as Madrid defender Juan José came sliding in a desperate attempt to block the shot and ended up crashing into the post, before Maradona slotted the ball into the net. The manner of the goal led to many inside the stadium start applauding; only Ronaldinho (in November 2005) and Andrés Iniesta (in November 2015) have since been granted such an ovation as Barcelona players from Madrid fans at the Santiago Bernabéu. Due to illness and injury as well as controversial incidents on the field, Maradona had a difficult tenure in Barcelona. First a bout of hepatitis, then a broken ankle in a La Liga game at the Camp Nou in September 1983 caused by an ill-timed tackle by Athletic Bilbao's Andoni Goikoetxea, threatened to jeopardize Maradona's career, but with treatment and therapy, it was possible for him to return to the pitch after a three-month recovery period.\nThe end of the 1983–84 season included a violent and chaotic fight Maradona was directly involved in at the 1984 Copa del Rey final at the Santiago Bernabéu in Madrid against Athletic Bilbao. After receiving another rough tackle by Goikoetxea which wounded his leg, being taunted with xenophobic, racist insults related to his father's Native American ancestry throughout the match by Bilbao fans, and being provoked by Bilbao's Miguel Sola at full time as Barcelona lost 1–0, Maradona snapped. He aggressively got up, stood inches from Sola's face and the two exchanged words. This started a chain reaction of emotional reactions from both teams. Using expletives, Sola mimicked a gesture from the crowd towards Maradona by using a xenophobic term. Maradona then headbutted Sola, elbowed another Bilbao player in the face and kneed another player in the head, knocking him out cold. The Bilbao squad surrounded Maradona to exact some retribution with Goikoetxea connecting with a high kick to his chest, before the rest of the Barcelona squad joined in to help Maradona. From this point, Barcelona and Bilbao players brawled on the field with Maradona in the centre of the action, kicking and punching anyone in a Bilbao shirt.\n\nThe mass brawl was played out in front of the Spanish King Juan Carlos and an audience of 100,000 fans inside the stadium, and more than half of Spain watching on television. After fans began throwing solid objects on the field at the players, coaches and even photographers, sixty people were injured, with the incident effectively sealing Maradona's transfer out of the club in what was his last game in a Barcelona shirt. One Barcelona executive stated, \"When I saw those scenes of Maradona fighting and the chaos that followed I realized we couldn't go any further with him.\" Maradona got into frequent disputes with FC Barcelona executives, particularly club president Josep Lluís Núñez, culminating with a demand to be transferred out of Camp Nou in 1984. During his two injury-hit seasons at Barcelona, Maradona scored 38 goals in 58 games. Maradona transferred to Napoli in Italy's Serie A for another world record fee, £6.9 million ($10.48M).\n\nMaradona arrived in Naples and was presented to the world media as a Napoli player on 5 July 1984, where he was welcomed by 75,000 fans at his presentation at the Stadio San Paolo. Sports writer David Goldblatt commented, \"They [the fans] were convinced that the saviour had arrived.\" A local newspaper stated that despite the lack of a \"mayor, houses, schools, buses, employment and sanitation, none of this matters because we have Maradona\". Prior to Maradona's arrival, Italian football was dominated by teams from the north and centre of the country, such as A.C. Milan, Juventus, Inter Milan and Roma, and no team in the south of the Italian Peninsula had ever won a league title.\n\nAt Napoli, Maradona reached the peak of his professional career: he soon inherited the captain's armband from Napoli veteran defender Giuseppe Bruscolotti and quickly became an adored star among the club's fans; in his time there he elevated the team to the most successful era in its history. Maradona played for Napoli at a period when North-South tensions in Italy were at a peak due to a variety of issues, notably the economic differences between the two. Led by Maradona, Napoli won their first ever Serie A Italian Championship in 1986–87. Goldblatt wrote, \"The celebrations were tumultuous. A rolling series of impromptu street parties and festivities broke out contagiously across the city in a round-the-clock carnival which ran for over a week. The world was turned upside down. The Neapolitans held mock funerals for Juventus and Milan, burning their coffins, their death notices announcing 'May 1987, the other Italy has been defeated. A new empire is born.'\" Murals of Maradona were painted on the city's ancient buildings, and newborn children were named in his honor. The following season, the team's prolific attacking trio, formed by Maradona, Bruno Giordano and Careca, was later dubbed the \"Ma-Gi-Ca\" (\"magical\") front-line.\n\nNapoli would win their second league title in 1989–90, and finish runners up in the league twice, in 1987–88 and 1988–89. Other honors during the Maradona era at Napoli included the Coppa Italia in 1987, (second place in the Coppa Italia in 1989), the UEFA Cup in 1989 and the Italian Supercup in 1990. Despite primarily playing in a creative role as an attacking midfielder, Maradona was the top scorer in Serie A in 1987–88, with 15 goals, and was the all-time leading goalscorer for Napoli, with 115 goals, until his record was broken by Marek Hamšík in 2017. When asked who was the toughest player he ever faced, A.C. Milan central defender Franco Baresi stated, \"Maradona; when he was on form, there was almost no way of stopping him,\" a view shared by his Milan teammate Paolo Maldini, who stated, \"The best ever I played against was Maradona.\"\n\nWhile Maradona was successful on the field during his time in Italy, his personal problems increased. His cocaine use continued, and he received US $70,000 in fines from his club for missing games and practices, ostensibly because of \"stress\". He faced a scandal there regarding an illegitimate son, and he was also the object of some suspicion over an alleged friendship with the Camorra. Later on, in honour of Maradona and his achievements during his career at Napoli, the number 10 jersey of Napoli was officially retired.\n\nAfter serving a 15-month ban for failing a drug test for cocaine, Maradona left Napoli in disgrace in 1992. Despite interest from Real Madrid and Marseille, he signed for Sevilla, where he stayed for one year. In 1993, he played for Newell's Old Boys and in 1995 returned to Boca Juniors for a two-year stint. Maradona also appeared for Tottenham Hotspur in a testimonial match for Osvaldo Ardiles against Internazionale, shortly before the 1986 World Cup. Maradona was himself given a testimonial match in November 2001, played between an all-star World XI and the Argentina national team.\n\nDuring his time with the Argentina national team, Maradona scored 34 goals in 91 appearances. He made his full international debut at age 16, against Hungary, on 27 February 1977. Maradona was left off the Argentine squad for the 1978 World Cup on home soil by coach César Luis Menotti who felt he was too young at age 17. At age 18, Maradona played the 1979 FIFA World Youth Championship in Japan and emerged as the star of the tournament, shining in Argentina's 3–1 final win over the Soviet Union. On 2 June 1979, Maradona scored his first senior international goal in a 3–1 win against Scotland at Hampden Park. He went on to play for Argentina in two 1979 Copa América ties during August 1979, a 2–1 loss against Brazil and a 3–0 win over Bolivia in which he scored his side's third goal.\n\nMaradona and his compatriot and heir apparent, Lionel Messi, are the only players to win the Golden Ball at both the FIFA U-20 World Cup and FIFA World Cup. Maradona did so in 1979 and 1986, which Messi emulated in 2005 and 2014.\n\nMaradona played his first World Cup tournament in 1982 in his new country of residence, Spain. Argentina played Belgium in the opening game of the 1982 Cup at the Camp Nou in Barcelona. The Catalan crowd was eager to see their new world-record signing Maradona in action, but he did not perform to expectations, as Argentina, the defending champions, lost 1–0. Although the team convincingly beat both Hungary and El Salvador in Alicante to progress to the second round, there were internal tensions within the team, with the younger, less experienced players at odds with the older, more experienced players. In a team that also included such players as Mario Kempes, Osvaldo Ardiles, Ramón Díaz, Daniel Bertoni, Alberto Tarantini, Ubaldo Fillol and Daniel Passarella, the Argentine side was defeated in the second round by Brazil and by eventual winners Italy. The Italian match is renowned for Maradona being aggressively man-marked by Claudio Gentile, as Italy beat Argentina at the Sarrià Stadium in Barcelona, 2–1.\n\nMaradona played in all five matches without being substituted, scoring twice against Hungary. He was fouled repeatedly in all five games and particularly in the last one against Brazil at the Sarrià, a game that was blighted by poor officiating and violent fouls. With Argentina already down 3–0 to Brazil, Maradona's temper eventually got the better of him and he was sent off with five minutes remaining for a serious retaliatory foul against Batista.\n\nMaradona captained the Argentine national team to victory in the 1986 World Cup in Mexico, winning the final in Mexico City against West Germany. Throughout the tournament, Maradona asserted his dominance and was the most dynamic player of the tournament. He played every minute of every Argentina game, scoring five goals and making five assists, three of those in the opening match against South Korea at the Olimpico Universitario Stadium in Mexico City. His first goal of the tournament came against Italy in the second group game in Puebla. Argentina eliminated Uruguay in the first knockout round in Puebla, setting up a match against England at the Azteca Stadium, also in Mexico City. After scoring two contrasting goals in the 2–1 quarter-final win against England, his legend was cemented. The majesty of his second goal and the notoriety of his first led to the French newspaper \"L'Equipe\" describing Maradona as \"half-angel, half-devil\". This match was played with the background of the Falklands War between Argentina and the United Kingdom. Replays showed that the first goal was scored by striking the ball with his hand. Maradona was coyly evasive, describing it as \"a little with the head of Maradona and a little with the hand of God\". It became known as the \"Hand of God\". Ultimately, on 22 August 2005, Maradona acknowledged on his television show that he had hit the ball with his hand purposely, and no contact with his head was made, and that he immediately knew the goal was illegitimate. This became known as an international fiasco in World Cup history. The goal stood, much to the wrath of the English players.\n\nMaradona's second goal, just four minutes after the hotly disputed hand-goal, was later voted by FIFA as the greatest goal in the history of the World Cup. He received the ball in his own half, swivelled around and with 11 touches ran more than half the length of the field, dribbling past five English outfield players (Peter Beardsley, Steve Hodge, Peter Reid, Terry Butcher and Terry Fenwick) before he left goalkeeper Peter Shilton on his backside with a feint, and slotted the ball into the net. This goal was voted \"Goal of the Century\" in a 2002 online poll conducted by FIFA.\n\nMaradona followed this with two more goals in a semi-final match against Belgium at the Azteca, including another virtuoso dribbling display for the second goal. In the final match, West Germany attempted to contain him by double-marking, but he nevertheless found the space past the West German player Lothar Matthäus to give the final pass to Jorge Burruchaga for the winning goal. Argentina beat West Germany 3–2 in front of 115,000 fans at the Azteca.\n\nDuring the course of the tournament, Maradona attempted or created more than half of Argentina's shots, attempted 90 dribbles some three times more than any other player and was fouled 53 times, winning his team twice as many free kicks as any player. Maradona scored or assisted 10 of Argentina's 14 goals, including the assist for the winning goal in the final, ensuring that he would be remembered as one of the greatest names in football history. By the end of the World Cup, Maradona went on to win the Golden Ball as the best player of the tournament by unanimous vote and was widely regarded to have won the World Cup virtually single-handedly, something that he later stated he did not entirely agree with. Zinedine Zidane, watching the 1986 World Cup as a 14 year old, stated Maradona “was on another level”. In a tribute to him, Azteca Stadium authorities built a statue of him scoring the \"Goal of the Century\" and placed it at the entrance of the stadium.\n\nMaradona captained Argentina again in the 1990 World Cup in Italy to yet another World Cup final. An ankle injury affected his overall performance, and he was much less dominant than four years earlier. After losing their opening game to Cameroon at the San Siro in Milan, Argentina were almost eliminated in the first round, only qualifying in third position from their group. In the round of 16 match against Brazil in Turin, Claudio Caniggia scored the only goal after being set up by Maradona.\n\nIn the quarter-final, Argentina faced Yugoslavia in Florence; the match ending 0–0 after 120 minutes, and Argentina advancing on penalty kicks, despite Maradona missing one in the shootout with a weak shot to the goalkeeper's right. The semi-final against the host nation Italy at Maradona's club stadium in Naples, the Stadio San Paolo, was also resolved on penalties after a 1–1 draw. This time, however, Maradona was successful with his effort, daringly rolling the ball into the net with an almost exact replica of his missed shot in the previous round. At the final in Rome, Argentina lost 1–0 to West Germany, the only goal being a penalty by Andreas Brehme in the 85th minute after a controversial foul on Rudi Völler.\n\nAt the 1994 World Cup in the United States, Maradona played in only two games (both at the Foxboro Stadium near Boston), scoring one goal against Greece, before being sent home after failing a drug test for ephedrine doping. After scoring against Greece, Maradona had one of the most infamous World Cup goal celebrations as he ran towards one of the sideline cameras shouting with a distorted face and bulging eyes. This turned out to be Maradona's last international goal for Argentina in what was his last appearance for his country.\n\nIn his autobiography, Maradona argued that the test result was due to his personal trainer giving him the power drink Rip Fuel. His claim was that the U.S. version, unlike the Argentine one, contained the chemical and that, having run out of his Argentine dosage, his trainer unwittingly bought the U.S. formula. FIFA expelled him from USA '94, and Argentina were subsequently eliminated in the second round by Romania in Los Angeles. Maradona has also separately claimed that he had an agreement with FIFA, on which the organization reneged, to allow him to use the drug for weight loss before the competition in order to be able to play. His failed drugs test at the 1994 World Cup signaled the end of his international career, which had lasted 17 years and yielded 34 goals from 91 games, as well as one winner's medal and one runners-up medal in the World Cup.\n\nA classic number 10, Maradona was renowned for his dribbling ability, vision, close ball control, passing and creativity, and is considered one of the most skillful players in the sport. He had a compact physique, and with his strong legs and low center of gravity he could withstand physical pressure well while running with the ball. Former Dutch player Johan Cruyff saw similarities between Maradona and Lionel Messi with the ball seemingly attached to their body when dribbling. His physical strengths were illustrated by his two goals against Belgium in the 1986 World Cup. He was a strategist and a team player, as well as highly technical with the ball. He could manage himself effectively in limited spaces, and would attract defenders only to quickly dash out of the melee (as in the second 1986-goal against England), or give an assist to a free teammate. Being short, but strong, he could hold the ball long enough with a defender on his back to wait for a teammate making a run or to find a gap for a quick shot. He showed leadership qualities on the field and captained Argentina in their World Cup campaigns of 1986, 1990 and 1994.\n\nThe team leader on and off the field – he would speak up on a range of issues on behalf of the players – Maradona’s ability as a player and his overpowering personality had a major positive effect on his team, with his 1986 World Cup teammate Jorge Valdano stating: \"Maradona was a technical leader: a guy who resolved all difficulties that may come up on the pitch. Firstly, he was in charge of making the miracles happen, that's something that gives team-mates a lot of confidence. Secondly, the scope of his celebrity was such that he absorbed all the pressures on behalf of his team-mates. What I mean is: one slept soundly the night before a game not just because you knew you were playing next to Diego and Diego did things no other player in the world could do, but also because unconsciously we knew that if it was the case that we lost then Maradona would shoulder more of the burden, would be blamed more, than the rest of us. That was the kind of influence he exercised on the team.\" Lauding the “charisma” of Maradona, another of his Argentina teammates, prolific striker Gabriel Batistuta, stated, “Diego could command a stadium, have everyone watch him. I played with him and I can tell you how technically decisive he was for the team.”\nOne of Maradona's trademark moves was dribbling full-speed on the right wing, and on reaching the opponent's goal line, delivering accurate passes to his teammates. Another trademark was the \"rabona\", a reverse-cross pass shot behind the leg that holds all the weight. This maneuver led to several assists, such as the cross for Ramón Díaz's header against Switzerland in 1980. He was also a dangerous free kick and penalty kick taker. His free kick technique, which often saw him raise his knee at a high angle when striking the ball, thus enabling him to lift it high over the wall, allowed him to score free kicks even from close range, within 22 to 17 yards (20 to 16 metres) from the goal, or even just outside the penalty area.\n\nMaradona was famous for his cunning personality. Inherent within his nickname \"El Pibe de Oro\" (\"Golden Boy\") is a sense of mischief, with \"pibe\" being an anti-establishment rogue, street smart and full of guile. Some critics view his controversial \"Hand of God\" goal at the 1986 World Cup as a clever maneuver, with one of the opposition players, Glenn Hoddle, admitting that Maradona had disguised it by flicking his head at the same time as palming the ball. The goal itself has been viewed as an embodiment of the Buenos Aires shanty town Maradona was brought up in and its concept of \"viveza criolla\" — \"native cunning\". While critical of the illegitimate first goal, England striker Gary Lineker conceded, “When Diego scored that second goal against us, I felt like applauding. I'd never felt like that before, but it's true... and not just because it was such an important game. It was impossible to score such a beautiful goal. He's the greatest player of all time, by a long way. A genuine phenomenon.\" Maradona used his hand in the 1990 World Cup, again without punishment, and this time on his own goal line, to prevent the Soviet Union from scoring. A number of publications have referred to Maradona as the Artful Dodger, the urchin pickpocket from Charles Dickens' \"Oliver Twist\".\n\nMaradona was dominantly left-footed, often using his left foot even when the ball was positioned more suitably for a right-footed connection. His first goal against Belgium in the 1986 World Cup semi-final is a worthy indicator of such; he had run into the inside right channel to receive a pass but let the ball travel across to his left foot, requiring more technical ability. During his run past several England players in the previous round for the \"Goal of the Century\" he did not use his right foot once, despite spending the whole movement on the right-hand side of the pitch. In the 1990 World Cup second round tie against Brazil, he did use his right foot to set up the winning goal for Claudio Caniggia due to two Brazilian markers forcing him into a position that made use of his left foot less practical.\n\nHounded for years by the press, Maradona once fired a compressed-air rifle at reporters who he claimed were invading his privacy. This quote from former teammate Jorge Valdano summarizes the feelings of many:\nIn 1990, the Konex Foundation from Argentina granted him the Diamond Konex Award, one of the most prestigious culture awards in Argentina, as the most important personality in Sports in the last decade in his country. In 2000, Maradona published his autobiography \"Yo Soy El Diego\" (\"I am \"The Diego\"\"), which became a bestseller in Argentina. Two years later, Maradona donated the Cuban royalties of his book to \"the Cuban people and Fidel\".\n\nIn 2000, he won FIFA Player of the Century award which was to be decided by votes on their official website, their official magazine and a grand jury. Maradona won the Internet-based poll, garnering 53.6% of the votes against 18.53% for Pelé. In spite of this, and shortly before the ceremony, FIFA added a second award and appointed a \"Football Family\" committee composed of football journalists that also gave to Pelé the title of best player of the century to make it a draw. Maradona also came fifth in the vote of the IFFHS (International Federation of Football History and Statistics). In 2001, the Argentine Football Association (AFA) asked FIFA for authorization to retire the jersey number 10 for Maradona. FIFA did not grant the request, even though Argentine officials have maintained that FIFA hinted that it would.\n\nMaradona has topped a number of fan polls, including a 2002 FIFA poll in which his second goal against England was chosen as the best goal ever scored in a World Cup; he also won the most votes in a poll to determine the All-Time Ultimate World Cup Team. On 22 March 2010, Maradona was chosen number 1 in The Greatest 10 World Cup players of all time by the London-based newspaper \"The Times\". Argentinos Juniors named its stadium after Maradona on 26 December 2003. In 2003, Maradona was employed by the Libyan footballer Al-Saadi Gaddafi, the third son of Colonel Muammar Gaddafi, as a \"technical consultant\", while Al-Saadi was playing for the Italian club, Perugia, which was playing in Serie A at the time.\n\nOn 22 June 2005, it was announced that Maradona would return to former club Boca Juniors as a sports vice president in charge of managing the First Division roster (after a disappointing 2004–05 season, which coincided with Boca's centenary). His contract began 1 August 2005, and one of his first recommendations proved to be very effective: advising the club to hire Alfio Basile as the new coach. With Maradona fostering a close relationship with the players, Boca won the 2005 Apertura, the 2006 Clausura, the 2005 Copa Sudamericana and the 2005 Recopa Sudamericana.\n\nOn 15 August 2005, Maradona made his debut as host of a talk-variety show on Argentine television, La Noche del 10 (\"The Night of the no. 10\"). His main guest on opening night was Pelé; the two had a friendly chat, showing no signs of past differences. However, the show also included a cartoon villain with a clear physical resemblance to Pelé. In subsequent evenings, he led the ratings on all occasions but one. Most guests were drawn from the worlds of football and show business, including Ronaldo and Zinedine Zidane, but also included interviews with other notable friends and personalities such as Cuban leader Fidel Castro and boxers Roberto Durán and Mike Tyson. Maradona gave each of his guests a signed Argentina jersey, which Tyson wore when he arrived in Brazil, Argentina's biggest rivals.\n\nIn May 2006, Maradona agreed to take part in UK's Soccer Aid (a program to raise money for Unicef). In September 2006, Maradona, in his famous blue and white number 10, was the captain for Argentina in a three-day World Cup of Indoor Football tournament in Spain. On 26 August 2006, it was announced that Maradona was quitting his position in the club Boca Juniors because of disagreements with the AFA, who selected Alfio Basile to be the new coach of the Argentina national team. In 2008, award-winning Serbian filmmaker Emir Kusturica made a documentary about Maradona's life, entitled \"Maradona\".\n\nOn 1 September 2014, Maradona, along with many current and former footballing stars, took part in the \"Match for Peace\", which was played at the Stadio Olimpico in Rome, with the proceeds being donated entirely to charity. Maradona set up a goal for Roberto Baggio during the first half of the match, with a chipped through-ball over the defence with the outside of his left foot. Unusually, both Baggio and Maradona wore the number 10 shirt, despite playing on the same team. On 17 August 2015, Maradona visited Ali Bin Nasser, the Tunisian referee of the Argentina–England quarter-final match at the 1986 World Cup where Maradona scored his Hand of God, and paid tribute to him by giving him a signed Argentine jersey.\n\nMaradona began his managerial career alongside former Argentinos Juniors midfield teammate Carlos Fren. The pair led Mandiyú of Corrientes in 1994 and Racing Club in 1995, with little success. In May 2011 he became manager of Dubai club Al Wasl FC in the United Arab Emirates. Maradona was sacked on 10 July 2012. In August 2013, Maradona moved on to become mental coach at Argentine club Deportivo Riestra. Maradona departed this role in 2017 to become the head coach of Fujairah, in the UAE second division, before leaving at the end of the season upon failure to secure promotion at the club. In September 2018 he was appointed manager of Mexican second division side Dorados. He made his debut with Dorados on September 17, 2018 with a 4-1 victory over Cafetaleros de Tapachula.\n\nAfter the resignation of Argentina national team coach Alfio Basile in 2008, Maradona immediately proposed his candidacy for the vacant role. According to several press sources, his major challengers included Diego Simeone, Carlos Bianchi, Miguel Ángel Russo and Sergio Batista. On 29 October 2008, AFA chairman Julio Grondona confirmed that Maradona would be the head coach of the national team. On 19 November 2008, Maradona managed Argentina for the first time when they played against Scotland at Hampden Park in Glasgow, which Argentina won 1–0.\nAfter winning his first three matches in charge of the national team, he oversaw a 6–1 defeat to Bolivia, equalling the team's worst ever margin of defeat. With two matches remaining in the qualification tournament for the 2010 World Cup, Argentina was in fifth place and faced the possibility of failing to qualify, but victory in the last two matches secured qualification for the finals. After Argentina's qualification, Maradona used abusive language at the live post-game press conference, telling members of the media to \"suck it and keep on sucking it\". FIFA responded with a two-month ban on all footballing activity, which expired on 15 January 2010, and a CHF 25,000 fine, with a warning as to his future conduct. The friendly match scheduled to take place at home to the Czech Republic on 15 December, during the period of the ban, was cancelled. The only match Argentina played during Maradona's ban was a friendly away to Catalonia, which they lost 4–2.\n\nAt the World Cup finals in June 2010, Argentina started by winning 1–0 against Nigeria, followed by a 4–1 victory over South Korea on the strength of a Gonzalo Higuaín hat-trick. In the final match of the group stage, Argentina won 2–0 against Greece to win the group and advance to a second round, meeting Mexico. After defeating Mexico 3–1, however, Argentina was routed by Germany 4–0 in the quarter-finals to go out of the competition. Argentina was ranked fifth in the tournament. After the defeat to Germany, Maradona admitted that he was considering his future as Argentina coach, stating, \"I may leave tomorrow.\" On 15 July 2010, the AFA said that he would be offered a new four-year deal that would keep him in charge through to the summer of 2014 when Brazil stages the World Cup. On 27 July, however, the AFA announced that its board had unanimously decided not to renew his contract. Afterwards, on 29 July, Maradona claimed that AFA president Julio Grondona and director of national teams (as well as his former Argentine national team and Sevilla coach) Carlos Bilardo had \"lied to\", \"betrayed\" and effectively sacked him from the role. He said, \"They wanted me to continue, but seven of my staff should not go on, if he told me that, it meant he did not want me to keep working.\"\n\nBorn to a Roman Catholic family, his parents are Diego Maradona Senior and Dalma Salvadora Franco. Maradona married long-time fiancée Claudia Villafañe on 7 November 1984 in Buenos Aires, and they had two daughters, Dalma Nerea (born 2 April 1987) and Gianinna Dinorah (born 16 May 1989), by whom he became a grandfather in 2009.\n\nMaradona and Villafañe divorced in 2004. Daughter Dalma has since asserted that the divorce was the best solution for all, as her parents remained on friendly terms. They travelled together to Naples for a series of homages in June 2005 and were seen together on other occasions, including the Argentina games during 2006 World Cup.\n\nDuring the divorce proceedings, Maradona admitted he is the father of Diego Sinagra (born in Naples on 20 September 1986). The Italian courts had already ruled so in 1993, after Maradona refused to undergo DNA tests for proving or disproving his paternity. Diego Junior met Maradona for the first time in May 2003 after tricking his way onto a golf course in Italy where Maradona was playing. Sinagra is now a footballer playing in Italy. After the divorce, Claudia embarked on a career as a theatre producer, and Dalma was seeking an acting career; she had expressed her desire to attend the Actor's Studio in Los Angeles.\n\nMaradona's relationship with his immediate family was a close one, and in a 1990 interview with \"Sports Illustrated\" he showed phone bills where he had spent a minimum of 15,000 US dollars per month calling his parents and siblings. Maradona's mother, Dalma, died on 19 November 2011. He was in Dubai at the time, and desperately tried to fly back in time to see her, but was too late. She was 81 years old. His father, \"Don\" Diego, died on 25 June 2015 at age 87.\n\nFrom the mid-1980s until 2004, Maradona was addicted to cocaine. He allegedly began using the drug in Barcelona in 1983. By the time he was playing for Napoli, he had a regular addiction, which began to interfere with his ability to play football.\n\nMaradona has a tendency to put on weight and suffered increasingly from obesity, at one point weighing . He was obese from the end of his playing career until undergoing gastric bypass surgery in a clinic in Cartagena de Indias, Colombia, on 6 March 2005. His surgeon said that Maradona would follow a liquid diet for three months in order to return his normal weight. When Maradona resumed public appearances shortly thereafter, he displayed a notably thinner figure. On 29 March 2007, Maradona was readmitted to a hospital in Buenos Aires. He was treated for hepatitis and effects of alcohol abuse and was released on 11 April, but readmitted two days later. In the following days, there were constant rumors about his health, including three false claims of his death within a month. After transfer to a psychiatric clinic specialising in alcohol-related problems, he was discharged on 7 May. On 8 May 2007, Maradona appeared on Argentine television and stated that he had quit drinking and had not used drugs in two-and-a-half years.\n\nHaving previously been vocal in his support of neoliberal Argentine President Carlos Menem and his Harvard University-educated economist Domingo Cavallo, Maradona has shown sympathy to left-wing ideologies. He became friends with Cuban leader Fidel Castro while receiving treatment on the island, with Castro stating, \"Diego is a great friend and very noble, too. There's also no question he’s a wonderful athlete and has maintained a friendship with Cuba to no material gain of his own.\" He has a portrait of Castro tattooed on his left leg and one of Fidel's second in command, fellow Argentine Che Guevara on his right arm. In his autobiography, \"El Diego\", he dedicated the book to various people, including Castro. He wrote, \"To Fidel Castro and, through him, all the Cuban people.\"\nMaradona was also a supporter of former Venezuelan President Hugo Chávez. In 2005, he came to Venezuela to meet Chávez, who received him in the Miraflores Palace. After this meeting, Maradona claimed that he had come with the aim of meeting a \"great man\" (\"\"un grande\" in Spanish), but he had met instead a gigantic man (\"un gigante\"\" in Spanish, meaning he was more than great). \"I believe in Chávez, I am Chavista. Everything Fidel does, everything Chávez does, for me is the best.\" Maradona was the guest of honor of Chávez at the opening game of the 2007 Copa América held in Venezuela.\n\nMaradona has declared his opposition to what he identifies as imperialism, notably during the 2005 Summit of the Americas in Mar del Plata, Argentina. There he protested George W. Bush's presence in Argentina, wearing a T-shirt labeled \"STOP BUSH\" (with the \"s\" in \"Bush\" being replaced with a swastika) and referring to Bush as \"human garbage\". In August 2007, Maradona went further, making an appearance on Chávez's weekly television show \"Alo Presidente\" and saying, \"I hate everything that comes from the United States. I hate it with all my strength.\" In December 2008, however, Maradona had adopted a more pro-US attitude when he expressed admiration for Bush's successor, President-elect Barack Obama, and held great expectations for him.\nWith his poor shanty town upbringing, Maradona has cultivated a man of the people persona. During a meeting with Pope John Paul II at the Vatican in 1987, they clashed on the issue of wealth disparity, with Maradona stating, \"I argued with him because I was in the Vatican and I saw all these golden ceilings and afterwards I heard the Pope say the Church was worried about the welfare of poor kids. Sell your ceiling then amigo, do something!\" In September 2014, Maradona met with Pope Francis in Rome, crediting Francis for inspiring him to return to religion after many years; he stated, \"We should all imitate Pope Francis. If each one of us gives something to someone else, no one in the world would be starving.\"\n\nIn December 2007, Maradona presented a signed shirt with a message of support to the people of Iran: it is displayed in the Iranian Ministry of Foreign Affairs' museum. In April 2013, Maradona visited the tomb of Hugo Chávez and urged Venezuelans to elect the late leader's designated successor, Nicolás Maduro, to continue the socialist leader's legacy; \"Continue the struggle,\" Maradona said on television. Maradona attended Maduro's final campaign rally in Caracas, signing footballs and kicking them to the crowd, and presented Maduro with an Argentina jersey. Having visited Chávez's tomb with Maradona, Maduro said, \"Speaking with Diego was very emotional because comandante Chávez also loved him very much.\" Maradona participated and danced at the electoral campaign rally during the 2018 presidential elections in Venezuela.\n\nIn October 2015, Maradona thanked Queen Elizabeth II and the Houses of Parliament in London for giving him the chance to provide \"true justice\" as head of an organisation designed to help young children. In a video released on his official Facebook page, Maradona confirmed he would accept their nomination for him to become Latin American director for the non-governmental organisation Football for Unity.\n\nIn March 2009, Italian officials announced that Maradona still owed the Italian government €37 million in local taxes; €23.5 million of which was accrued interest on his original debt. They reported that thus far, Maradona had paid only €42,000, two luxury watches and a set of earrings.\n\nThe American newspaper \"The Houston Chronicle\" wrote about Maradona:\nIn Argentina, Maradona is considered a sports hero. On the idolatry that exists in Argentina, former teammate Jorge Valdano said, \"At the time that Maradona retired from active football, left traumatized Argentina. Maradona was more than just a great footballer. It was a special compensation factor for a country that in a few years lived several military dictatorships and social frustrations of all kinds\". Valdano added that \"Maradona offered to the Argentines a way out of their collective frustration, and that's why people love him. There is a divine figure.\"\n\nEver since 1986, it is common for Argentines abroad to hear Maradona's name as a token of recognition, even in remote places. The Tartan Army sing a version of the Hokey Cokey in honour of the Hand of God goal against England. In Argentina, Maradona is often talked about in terms reserved for legends. In the Argentine film \"El Hijo de la Novia\" (\"Son of the Bride\"), somebody who impersonates a Catholic priest says to a bar patron, \"They idolized him and then crucified him.\" When a friend scolds him for taking the prank too far, the fake priest retorts, \"But I was talking about Maradona.\" He is the subject of the film \"El Camino de San Diego\", though he himself only appears in archive footage.\n\nMaradona was included in many cameos in the Argentine comic book El Cazador de Aventuras. After the closing of it, the authors started a new short-lived comic book titled \"El Die\", using Maradona as the main character. Maradona has had several online Flash games that are entirely dedicated to his legacy. In Rosario, Argentina, locals organized the parody religion of the \"Church of Maradona\". The organization reformulates many elements from Christian tradition, such as Christmas or prayers, reflecting instead details from Maradona. It had 200 founding members, and tens of thousands more have become members via the church's official web site.\nMany Argentine artists performed songs in tribute to Diego, such as \"Maradó\" by El Potro Rodrigo, \"Maradona\" by Andrés Calamaro, \"Para siempre Diego\" (Diego forever) by Los Ratones Paranoicos, \"Francotirador\" (Sniper) by Attaque 77, \"Maradona blues\" by Charly García, \"Santa Maradona\" (Saint Maradona) by Mano Negra, \"La Vida Tombola\" by Manu Chao, among others. There are also films, such as: \"Maradona, La Mano de Dios\" (Maradona, the Hand of God), \"El Camino de San Diego\" (Saint Diego's Road), \"Amando a Maradona\" (Loving Maradona), \"Maradona by Kusturica\".\n\nBy 1982, Maradona had become one of the biggest sports stars in the world and had endorsements with many companies, including Puma and Coca-Cola, earning him an additional $1.5 million per year on top of his club salary. In 1982, he featured in a World Cup commercial for Coca-Cola, and a Japanese commercial for Puma. In 2010 he appeared in a commercial for French fashion house Louis Vuitton, indulging in a game of table football with fellow World Cup winners Pelé and Zinedine Zidane. Maradona features in the music video to the 2010 World Cup song \"Waka Waka\" by Shakira, with footage shown of him celebrating Argentina winning the 1986 World Cup.\n\nA 2006 television commercial for Brazilian soft drink Guaraná Antarctica portrayed Maradona as a member of the Brazil national team, including wearing the yellow jersey and singing the Brazilian national anthem with Brazilian players Ronaldo and Kaká. Later on in the commercial he wakes up realizing it was a nightmare after having drunk too much of the drink. This generated some controversy in the Argentine media after its release (although the commercial was not supposed to air on the Argentine market, fans could see it online). Maradona replied that he has no problem in wearing the Brazilian national squad jersey despite Argentina and Brazil having a tense rivalry in football, but that he would refuse to wear the shirt of River Plate, Boca Juniors' traditional rival. There is a documented phenomenon of Brazilians being named in honour of Maradona, an example being footballer Diego Costa.\n\nIn 2017, Maradona featured as a legendary player in the football video games \"FIFA 18\" and \"Pro Evolution Soccer 2018\". In 2018, a documentary film titled \"Maradona\" is to be released by Academy Award and BAFTA Award winning filmmaker Asif Kapadia, director of \"Amy\" (on singer Amy Winehouse) and \"Senna\" (on motor racing driver Ayrton Senna). Kapadia states, \"Maradona is the third part of a trilogy about child geniuses and fame.\" He added, \"I was fascinated by his journey, wherever he went there were moments of incredible brilliance and drama. He was a leader, taking his teams to the very top, but also many lows in his career. He was always the little guy fighting against the system... and he was willing to do anything, to use all of his cunning and intelligence to win.\"\n\n\n\nBoca Juniors\n\nBarcelona\n\nNapoli\n\nArgentina Youth\n\nArgentina\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4306690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4306690", "title": "Duncan Bannatyne", "text": "Duncan Bannatyne\n\nDuncan Walker Bannatyne, OBE (born 2 February 1949), is a Scottish entrepreneur, philanthropist and author. His business interests include hotels, health clubs, spas, media, TV, and property. He is most famous for his appearance as a business angel on the BBC programme \"Dragons' Den\". He was appointed an OBE for his contribution to charity. He has written seven books.\n\nBannatyne was born in Dalmuir west of Glasgow. His father Bill had served in the Argyll and Sutherland Highlanders in World War II and worked on the Burma Railway after being captured by the Japanese following the Fall of Singapore, he then worked in the foundry at the Clydebank Singer plant. As a child Duncan lived in one room with his parents and siblings in a large house shared with six other families. He attended Dalmuir Primary School where he displayed a talent for arithmetic and won a place at Clydebank High School after passing the Eleven plus exam. Most pupils owned a bicycle so he resolved to earn the money to buy one for himself. The local newsagent was not interested in employing him so she challenged him to find 100 new customers in return for a paper round. He called her bluff by returning with 100 names, but later reflected that it would have been more entrepreneurial to have sold the list. He only enjoyed PE and woodwork at the High School and left at 15 without any qualifications.\n\nIn 1964, after a few weeks working for a local cabinet-maker he joined the Royal Navy, initially enlisting for twelve years as a junior second class engineering mechanic (stoker) at RNTE Shotley near Ipswich, better known as the boys' training establishment HMS \"Ganges\". He served in the Navy for several years including a spell on the aircraft carrier HMS \"Eagle,\" before throwing an officer off a boat landing jetty in Scotland and receiving a dishonourable discharge. In his autobiography he claims this was in part a reaction to this officer's abuse of his authority, in part a dare by his shipmates and in part a way of getting out of the Navy, with which he had become disillusioned. Bannatyne was nineteen when this happened. After the incident he had to serve nine months in Colchester military detention centre. He later spent ten days in Glasgow's Barlinnie prison for not paying a £10 fine in relation to a charge of breach of the peace and resisting arrest.\n\nBannatyne spent his twenties moving from one job to another. Upon his return to Clydebank he trained as an agricultural vehicle fitter and then travelled around the country repairing tractors. He lived on the island of Jersey for four years from 1974 where he gained an HGV licence and earned a living through several jobs including deckchair attendant, ice cream seller and hospital porter. He also surfed, partied and met his first wife on the island. With Jersey's difficult business climate for outsiders, at age 29, Bannatyne and his wife moved to Stockton-on-Tees in North East England. He has stated that he was poor and did not have a bank account until the age of 30.\n\nHis business career began almost immediately after his move to Stockton-on-Tees with an ice cream van purchased for £450. He soon expanded by buying more vans during the period of the Glasgow Ice Cream Wars. He sold the business for £28,000, founding a nursing home business called Quality Care Homes which he then sold for £26 million in 1997 and children's nursery chain Just Learning for £12 million. The Just Learning chief executive during the 1992–97 period was Conservative MP Michael Fallon.\n\nBannatyne has since expanded into health clubs, with the Bannatyne Health Club & Spa chain to his name, and also hotels and property. He acquired 26 health clubs from Hilton Hotels in August 2006 at a price of £92 million. The Bannatyne Group is now the largest independent chain of health clubs in the United Kingdom with 71 sites. The business currently (June 2018) has 46 spas with plans for more, including at its first Northern Ireland-based health club in Belfast and it operates 4 hotels.\n\nHis wealth as of 2018, was estimated at £280 million by the Sunday Times Rich List. \n\nBannatyne has written seven books: \"Anyone Can Do It\", \"Wake Up and Change Your Life\", \"How to be Smart With Your Money\", \"How to be Smart With Your Time\", \"43 Mistakes Businesses Make\", \"37 Questions Everyone in Business Needs to Answer\", and \"Riding The Storm\".\n\nFrom 2005 until 2015, Duncan was a Dragon on the BBC television series \"Dragons' Den\". During his time on the show he invested in 36 businesses.\n\nIn 2015, Bannatyne took part in the fifteenth series of \"I'm a Celebrity...Get Me Out of Here!\". His fee for taking part in the show was donated to the Operation Smile charity.\n\nBannatyne received his OBE partly in recognition for his work with charities such as Mary's meals. He has funded several projects over a ten-year period in Romania, including Casa Bannatyne in Târgu-Mureş, a hospice for orphans with HIV and AIDS in which he invested £80,000. In March 2008, he established the Bannatyne Charitable Trust with a personal injection of £1,000,000.\n\nOn 19 May 2008, Bannatyne added his support to the launch of the Geared for Giving Campaign at the House of Commons to encourage UK business leaders to set up and promote a Workplace Giving scheme to benefit UK registered charities with tax effective donations through employees' pay. He then helped to promote Clydesdale Bank's and Yorkshire Bank's efforts to promote the programme through ATM (Automated Teller Machine) rolls. \"They are really going for it, over 20 per cent of their employees are giving money through this system\", Bannatyne says.\n\nOn 29 August 2008, Bannatyne appeared on television programme \"Who Wants to Be a Millionaire?\", raising £20,000 for charity NCH.\n\nHe became President of the charity No Smoking Day in October 2008. The charity runs the annual health awareness campaign – helping people who want to stop smoking.\n\nIn August 2010, he agreed to become Patron of PC David Rathband's Blue Lamp Foundation, a charity established by the Northumbria Police Constable David Rathband, who was blinded by gunshot wounds in the 2010 Northumbria Police manhunt.\n\nBannatyne supported the Conservative Party under Margaret Thatcher, but switched to support New Labour under Tony Blair and Gordon Brown.\n\nOn appearing on the \"Question Time\" panel on 7 February 2008, he revealed having been a donor to the Labour Party under Blair. He also voiced his support for Brown, but criticised the Cabinet for what he described as \"petty squabbles based on personal ambition\". In March 2011, Bannatyne appeared to switch political affiliations again, by backing certain measures imposed in Chancellor George Osborne's budget even though he mocked the government a few months earlier.\n\nIn April 2015, a week after signing a letter to \"The Daily Telegraph\" supporting the Conservative Party in the 2015 General Election, he reversed his position, and pledged his vote to Labour, praising leader Ed Miliband's \"courage\" in pledging to scrap non-domiciled tax status.\n\nDuncan voted Brexit.\n\nBannatyne married Nigora Whitehorn in Portugal on 3 June 2017. Bannatyne has four children by his first wife, Gail (m. 1983): Hollie, Abigail, Jennifer and Eve; two with his second wife, Joanne (m. 2006): Emily (b. 1999) and Thomas (b. 2002). He also has two grandchildren, Ava and Austin, from his eldest daughter. \n\nHe currently lives in Portugal. Bannatyne was awarded an honorary Doctorate of Science (D.Sc.) by Glasgow Caledonian University on 5 July 2006 for services to business and charity. He was also awarded an honorary Doctorate of Business Administration (DBA) from Teesside University, on 6 February 2009.\n\nHis 60th birthday was celebrated at Murano's in London, with celebrities such as David Coulthard, James Caan, Theo Paphitis and Anna Ryder Richardson. A second party was held in the North East of England and was headlined by UK soul singer Beverley Knight and featured Chesney Hawkes, with the festivities occurring in a converted warehouse in Darlington, County Durham. He openly discussed having had cosmetic surgery under his eyes on \"The Graham Norton Show\"; had an acting role in the Tyne Tees Television comedy pilot \"Girl's Club\" where amongst other actors, he performed alongside the actress Georgia Taylor. In 2011, he revealed that he suffers from prosopagnosia.\n\n"}
{"id": "44970214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44970214", "title": "Emilio Madero", "text": "Emilio Madero\n\nGeneral Emilio Madero González (8 August 1880 – 16 January 1962) was a Mexican soldier who participated in the Mexican Revolution, and the brother of Francisco I. Madero.\n\nEmilio Madero was born in Parras, Coahuila, on 8 August 1880, the sixth son of Francisco Madero Hernández and Mercedes González Treviño. He was the brother of Francisco I. Madero, the leader of the Mexican Revolution.\n\nHe participated in the Madero movement during the Mexican Revolution. In April 1911 he led the forces which conquered the Mexican state of Durango, capturing Mapimí, Lerdo, and Gómez Palacio. In May 1911 he led the assault on Torreón, which was a key location to seizing control of the surrounding area. However, when his Maderistas finally took the city on 15 May, they were joined by a local mob and massacred the city's Chinese residents. Madero finally managed to bring them under control, but not until 10 hours had passed and over 300 Chinese lay dead. He had difficulty maintaining control of the area, though, and in June was forced to form a group of loyal men, who he paid $1.50 a day, to control rebellious former Maderistas. He was then aligned to the División del Norte in 1912 fighting Pascual Orozco under General Victoriano Huerta as a Colonel. During this time he was instrumental in saving Pancho Villa from execution, arguing for his life with Huerta, who wanted him out of the way.\n\nMadero married Mercedes Belden Gutiérrez on 27 January 1913 in Monterrey, Nuevo León. The couple had four children, including Pablo Emilio Madero Belden, who was inspired to go into politics on his father's account.\n\nMadero was in San Pedro, Coahuila, with Venustiano Carranza during \"La Decena Trágica\" in February 1913. Following the death of his brother Francisco, it was reported that he had been shot and killed just north of Monterrey on 26 February; according to rumor he had been overtaken by General Trevino between Villaldama and Bustamante while leading a group of 35 to join a force of rebels in Laredo. The report was declared false the next day. On 6 March, he was forced to flee Mexico with another brother, General Raúl Madero, and the two swore to avenge the President's death.\n\nHe had returned to Mexico by August 1914, and was in Chihuahua with Pancho Villa. In early 1915, Madero led 2,000 troops to capture Saltillo under the command of General Felipe Ángeles, later participating in a cavalry charge on 8 January that resulted in the capture of 3,000 prisoners in Ramos Arizpe. Following the appointment of Roque González Garza as President, Madero was made governor of Sinaloa. Later that same year, however, on 12 October 1915, Emilio and Raúl refused to join Villa in waging guerrilla warfare. Madero was still abroad in 1918, and was living in San Antonio.\n\nBy 1921 he had returned to Mexico, and was living on a farm in San Pedro. Madero and his family went into exile again in 1926. They spent a year in California and two in Texas before returning to Mexico in 1929.\n\nHe was the leader of the Revolutionary Party of National Unification until 1940, when he was removed for calling the party \"paralyzed\" due to lack of communication with leader Juan Andreu Almazán.\n\nMadero died in Mexico City on 16 January 1962, and was buried in the Panteón Francés de la Piedad.\n"}
{"id": "38516304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38516304", "title": "Frank Capra filmography", "text": "Frank Capra filmography\n\nThe following are the films directed by Frank Capra, along with a listing of his awards.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20831762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20831762", "title": "Friedrich Balduin von Gagern", "text": "Friedrich Balduin von Gagern\n\nFriedrich Balduin, Baron von Gagern (1794–1848) was a German soldier.\n\nHe was the eldest of the sons of Hans Christoph Ernst von Gagern. \nHe was born at Weilburg on 24 October 1794. He entered the University of Göttingen, but soon left, and, taking service in the Austrian army, took part in the Russian campaign of 1812, and fought in the following year at Dresden, Kulm and Leipzig. \nHe then entered the Dutch service, took part in the campaigns of 1815, and, after studying another year at Heidelberg, was member for Luxemburg of the military commission of the German federal diet (1824, 1825). \nIn 1830 and 1831 he took part in the Dutch campaign in Belgium, and in 1844, after being promoted to the rank of general, was sent on an important mission to the Dutch East Indies to inquire into the state of their military defences. \nIn 1847, he was appointed governor at the Hague, and commandant in South Holland.\n\nIn the spring of 1848 he was in Germany, and on the outbreak of the revolutionary troubles he accepted the invitation of the government of Baden to take the command against the insurgent \"free companies\" (Freischaaren) in the Hecker Uprising led by Friedrich Hecker. \nAt Kandern, on 20 April, he made a vain effort to persuade the leaders to submit, and was about to order his troops to attack, when he was mortally wounded by the bullets of the insurgents.\n\n"}
{"id": "33875019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33875019", "title": "George Gallup Jr.", "text": "George Gallup Jr.\n\nGeorge Horace Gallup Jr. (April 9, 1930 – November 21, 2011) was an American pollster, writer and executive at The Gallup Organization, which had been founded by his father, George Gallup. Gallup expanded the scope of the Gallup Poll to encompass a wider variety of topics, ranging from the outlook of American young people to religious beliefs.\n\nMuch of Gallup's writings and research focused on religion and spirituality in the United States. His works included \"The Saints Among Us\", published in 1992, and \"The Next American Spirituality\", published in 2002.\n\nBorn in Evanston, Illinois, Gallup graduated from the Lawrenceville School in 1948 and received a bachelor's degree in religion from Princeton University in 1953. In 1954, Gallup joined his father's polling company, The Gallup Organization, where he worked until his retirement in 2004. He and his brother, Alec Gallup, became co-chairmen of the company upon their father's death.\n\nGeorge Gallup was diagnosed with liver cancer in 2010. He died in Princeton, New Jersey, on November 21, 2011, at the age of 81.\n\nHe was married to Kingsley Hubby, with whom he had three children. He was a devout Episcopalian, who once considered the ministry but instead served as an active layman.\n"}
{"id": "30833692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30833692", "title": "Gregory Bright", "text": "Gregory Bright\n\nGregory Bright (born 1954) is a New Orleans native who was convicted of second-degree murder in 1974 at the age of 20. He was sentenced to life without parole, served at the Louisiana State Penitentiary. After several years of appeals, Mr. Bright was granted a new trial in 2001 on the grounds that the prosecution had withheld evidence from the defense in his previous trial. On June 24, 2003, after 27 ½ years in prison for a crime they did not commit, Mr. Bright and Earl Truvia were both released after the Orleans Parish district attorney dismissed all charges. When Bright was released from prison, the State of Louisiana only provided a US$10 check and garbage bags full of legal paperwork.\n\nBright speaks around the country about his wrongful incarceration and life since prison. He can also be seen on HBO's Tremé, the of FX's American Horror Story and TNT's Memphis Beat.\n\nIn 2010, Mr. Bright joined Innocence Project New Orleans as \"Assistant Education and Outreach Director\".\n\nLara Naughton and Gregory Bright collaborated on a documentary play based on Bright's words and recollections that exposes the failure of the criminal justice system, life in prison, and Bright's journey to freedom and forgiveness. With its first showing in 2010, the play is now performed by Bright himself under Naughton's direction.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35938551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35938551", "title": "Hélène Campbell", "text": "Hélène Campbell\n\nHélène Campbell (born April 18, 1991) is a woman from Ottawa who has raised great awareness for organ donations, largely through documenting her own need for new lungs via social media and by attracting support from celebrities including Justin Bieber and Ellen DeGeneres.\n\nCampbell had been diagnosed with asthma at the age of 14. In summer 2011, she could not keep up with friends and after almost collapsing during hiking, she went to see her family doctor. In October 2011, she was diagnosed with advanced idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis and was told she needed a double lung transplant. In September 2011, Hélène's lungs function was only 26% and in October it went down to 24%. Since lung transplants were not done in Ottawa, she had to move to Toronto in January to be placed on the transplant waiting list.\n\nIn late March, Hélène's condition was decaying quickly and her lung function was only 7%. On April 4, she had serious difficulty breathing and was admitted to the Toronto General Hospital. Hélène's lung function was a 6%, and was getting smaller by the minute. Her condition was grave enough that she was almost taken off the list - she was considered a \"high risk patient\". On April 6, Hélène underwent a successful double lung transplant at the Toronto General Hospital.\n\nSince then, she has been working with organizations all over the world to bring awareness to Organ Donation, Giving blood, and bone marrow donation. She is a motivational speaker and is passionate about sharing her experiences with anyone.\n\nIn January 2012, she started the online campaign #BeAnOrganDonor on Twitter to get the attention of Canadian popstar Justin Bieber. After Bieber retweeted her campaign, over 2,000 people in Ontario alone registered to be organ donors.\n\nIn March, Campbell was on The Ellen DeGeneres Show through Skype to talk about her cause to encourage people to be organ donors and give people like her a second chance. According to The Ottawa Sun, registrations for organ donations in Ottawa have skyrocketed by more than 8,000 since December, and the Trillium Gift of Life Network (TLGN) attributes it to the \"Helene Campbell effect.\"\n\nHélène got the attention of local media vehicles and politicians, such as Lisa MacLeod. She also received a Queen Elizabeth II Diamond Jubilee Medal, awarded by Canadian Prime Minister Stephen Harper in recognition of her work in raising awareness of the importance of organ donation on May 23, 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "16506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16506", "title": "Jay Leno", "text": "Jay Leno\n\nJames Douglas Muir \"Jay\" Leno (; born April 28, 1950) is an American comedian, actor, writer, producer, and television host. After doing stand-up comedy for years, he became the host of NBC's \"The Tonight Show with Jay Leno\" from 1992-2009. Beginning in September 2009, Leno started a primetime talk show, titled \"The Jay Leno Show\", which aired weeknights at 10:00pm ET, also on NBC.\n\nAfter \"The Jay Leno Show\" was cancelled in January 2010 amid a host controversy, Leno returned to host \"The Tonight Show with Jay Leno\" on March 1, 2010. He hosted his last episode of \"The Tonight Show\" on February 6, 2014. That year, he was inducted into the Television Hall of Fame. Since 2014, Leno has hosted \"Jay Leno's Garage\".\n\nLeno was born April 28, 1950 in New Rochelle, New York. His homemaker mother, Catherine (née Muir; 1911–1993), was born in Greenock, Scotland, and came to the United States at age 11. His father, Angelo (1910–1994), was an insurance salesman who was born in New York, to immigrants from Flumeri, Italy. Leno grew up in Andover, Massachusetts, and graduated from Andover High School. Leno obtained a bachelor's degree in speech therapy from Emerson College, where he started a comedy club in 1973. His older brother, Patrick (May 12, 1940 – October 6, 2002), was a Vietnam War veteran who worked as an attorney.\n\nLeno made his first appearance on \"The Tonight Show\" on March 2, 1977, performing a comedy routine. During the 1970s, Leno appeared in minor roles in several television series and films, first in the 1976 episode \"J.J. in Trouble\" of \"Good Times\" and the same year in the pilot of \"Holmes & Yo-Yo\". After an uncredited appearance in the 1977 film \"Fun with Dick and Jane\", he played more prominent roles in 1978 in \"American Hot Wax\" and \"Silver Bears\". Other films and television series from that period include \"Almost Heaven\" (1978), \"Going Nowhere\" (1979) from \"One Day at a Time\", \"Americathon\" (1979), \"Polyester\" (1981), \"The Wild One\" (1981) from \"Alice\", and both \"Feminine Mistake\" (1979) and \"Do the Carmine\" (1983) from \"Laverne & Shirley\". Leno's only starring film role was the 1989 direct-to-video \"Collision Course\", opposite Pat Morita. He also appeared numerous times on \"Late Night with David Letterman\".\n\nStarting in 1987, Leno was a regular substitute host for Johnny Carson on \"The Tonight Show\". In 1992, he replaced Carson as host amid controversy with David Letterman, who had been hosting \"Late Night with David Letterman\" since 1982 (aired after \"The Tonight Show\"), and whom many—including Carson himself—had expected to be Carson's successor. The story of this turbulent transition was later turned into a book and a movie. Leno continued to perform as a stand-up comedian throughout his tenure on \"The Tonight Show\".\n\nIn 2004, Leno signed a contract extension with NBC which would keep him as host of \"The Tonight Show\" until 2009. Later in 2004, Conan O'Brien signed a contract with NBC under which O'Brien would become the host of \"The Tonight Show\" in 2009, replacing Leno at that time.\n\nDuring the 2007–08 Writers Guild of America strike, Leno was accused of violating WGA guidelines by writing his own monologue for \"The Tonight Show\". While NBC and Leno claim there were private meetings with the WGA where there was a secret agreement allowing this, the WGA denied such a meeting. Leno answered questions in front of the Writers Guild of America, West trial committee in February 2009 and June 2009, and when the WGAW published its list of strike-breakers on August 11, 2009, Leno was not on the list.\n\nLeno said in 2008 that he was saving all of his income from \"The Tonight Show\" and living solely off his income from stand-up comedy.\n\nOn April 23, 2009, Leno checked himself into a hospital with an undisclosed illness. He was released the following day and returned to work on Monday, April 27. The two subsequently cancelled \"Tonight Show\" episodes for April 23 and 24 were Leno's first in 17 years as host. Initially, the illness that caused the absence was not disclosed, but later Leno told People magazine that the ailment was exhaustion.\n\nDuring the 2005 trial of Michael Jackson over allegations of child molestation, Leno was one of a few celebrities who appeared as a defense witness. In his testimony regarding a call by the accuser, Leno testified that he never called the police, that no money was asked for, and there was no coaching – but that the calls seemed unusual and scripted.\nAs a result, Leno was initially not allowed to tell jokes about Jackson or the case, which had been a fixture of \"The Tonight Show\"s opening monologue in particular. But he and his show's writers used a legal loophole by having Leno briefly step aside while stand-in comedians took the stage and told jokes about the trial. Stand-ins included Roseanne Barr, Drew Carey, Brad Garrett, and Dennis Miller, among others. The gag order was challenged, and the court ruled that Leno could continue telling jokes about the trial as long as he did not discuss his testimony. Leno celebrated by devoting an entire monologue to Michael Jackson jokes.\n\nBecause Leno's show continued to lead all late-night programming in the Nielsen ratings, the pending expiration of Leno's contract led to speculation about whether he would become a late-night host for another network after his commitment to NBC expired. Leno left \"The Tonight Show\" on Friday, May 29, 2009, and Conan O'Brien took over on June 1, 2009.\n\nOn December 8, 2008, it was reported that Leno would remain on NBC and move to a new hour-long show at 10 p.m. Eastern Time (9 p.m. Central Time) five nights a week. This show followed a similar format to \"The Tonight Show\", was filmed in the same studio facility and retained many of Leno's most popular segments. \"Late Night\" host Conan O'Brien was his successor on \"The Tonight Show\".\n\nJay Leno's new show, titled \"The Jay Leno Show\", debuted on September 14, 2009. It was announced at the Television Critics Association summer press tour that it would feature one or two celebrities, the occasional musical guest, and keep the popular \"Headlines\" segments, which would air near the end of the show. First guests included Jerry Seinfeld, Oprah Winfrey (via satellite), and a short sit-down with Kanye West discussing his controversy at the 2009 MTV Video Music Awards, which had occurred the night before.\n\nIn their new roles, neither O'Brien nor Leno succeeded in delivering the viewing audiences the network anticipated. On January 7, 2010, multiple media outlets reported that beginning March 1, 2010, Jay Leno would move from his 10 p.m. weeknight time slot to 11:35 p.m., due to a combination of pressure from local affiliates whose newscasts were suffering, and both Leno's and O'Brien's poor ratings. Leno's show would be shortened from an hour to 30 minutes. All NBC late night programming would be preempted by the 2010 Winter Olympics between February 15 and 26. This would move \"The Tonight Show\" to 12:05 a.m., a post-midnight timeslot for the first time in its history. O'Brien's contract stipulated that NBC could move the show back to 12:05 a.m. without penalty (a clause put in primarily to accommodate sports preemptions).\n\nOn January 10, NBC confirmed that they would move Jay Leno out of primetime as of February 12 and intended to move him to late night as soon as possible. TMZ reported that O'Brien was given no advance notice of this change, and that NBC offered him two choices: an hour-long 12:05am time slot, or the option to leave the network. On January 12, O'Brien issued a press release that stated he would not continue with \"Tonight\" if it moved to a 12:05 a.m. time slot, saying, \"I believe that delaying \"The Tonight Show\" into the next day to accommodate another comedy program will seriously damage what I consider to be the greatest franchise in the history of broadcasting. \"The Tonight Show\" at 12:05 simply isn't \"The Tonight Show.\"\"\n\nOn January 21, it was announced that NBC had struck a deal with O'Brien. It was decided that O'Brien would leave \"The Tonight Show\". The deal was made that O'Brien would receive a $33 million payout and that his staff of almost 200 would receive $12 million in the departure. O'Brien's final episode aired on Friday, January 22, 2010. Leno returned as host of \"The Tonight Show\" following the 2010 Winter Olympics on March 1, 2010.\n\nOn July 1, 2010, \"Variety\" reported that total viewership for Jay Leno's \"Tonight Show\" had dropped from 5 million to 4 million for the second quarter of 2010, compared to the same period in 2009. Although this represented the lowest second-quarter ratings for the show since 1992, \"Tonight\" was still the most-watched late night program, ahead of ABC's \"Nightline\" (3.7 million) and \"Late Show with David Letterman\" (3.3 million).\n\nOn April 3, 2013, NBC announced that Leno would leave \"The Tonight Show\" in spring 2014, with Jimmy Fallon as his designated successor. Leno sang the \"Tonight\"'s parody of \"Tonight Show\" with Fallon.\n\nLeno's final show as the host of the Tonight Show was on February 6, 2014 with his final guest Billy Crystal and musical guest Garth Brooks, along with a few surprise guests, including Jack Black, Kim Kardashian, Jim Parsons, Sheryl Crow, Chris Paul, Carol Burnett, and Oprah Winfrey.\n\nLeno has maintained an active schedule as a touring stand-up comedian appearing in, on average, 200 live performances a year in venues across the United States and Canada as well as charity events and USO tours. He has also made appearances on his successor's \"Tonight Show with Jimmy Fallon\" and on \"Late Night with Seth Meyers\", as well as being a guest on the finale of \"The Late Late Show with Craig Ferguson\" and doing a cameo drilling and torturing James Corden in a boot camp for talk show hosts on the premiere of \"The Late Late Show with James Corden\". He declined an invitation to appear on \"Late Show with David Letterman\" despite speculation he would make an appearance on the show's finale.\n\nLeno has also hosted an hour long \"Jay Leno's Garage\" special on CNBC, and the show has aired as a primetime series on the cable channel since 2015.\n\nLeno is also a cast member of the Tim Allen comedy “Last Man Standing”. He plays a mechanic named Joe in the store that is operated by Mike Baxter (Tim Allen).\n\nLeno has faced heated criticism and some negative publicity for his perceived role in the 2010 \"Tonight Show\" conflict. Critics have pointed to a 2004 \"Tonight Show\" clip, in which Leno said he would allow O'Brien to take over without incident. At the time, Leno stated he did not want O'Brien to leave for a competing network, adding, \"I'll be 59 when [the switch occurs], that's five years from now. There's really only one person who could have done this into his 60s, and that was Johnny Carson; I think it's fair to say I'm no Johnny Carson.\" Leno also described \"The Tonight Show\" as a dynasty, saying, \"You hold it and hand it off to the next person. And I don't want to see all the fighting.\" At the end of the segment, he said, \"Conan, it's yours! See you in five years, buddy!\"\n\nRosie O'Donnell was among O'Brien's most vocal and vehement supporters, calling Leno a \"bully\" and his actions \"classless and kind of career-defining\". Bill Zehme, the co-author of Leno's autobiography \"Leading with My Chin\", told the \"Los Angeles Times\", \"The thing Leno should do is walk, period. He's got everything to lose in terms of public popularity by going back. People will look at him differently. He'll be viewed as the bad guy.\"\n\nHoward Stern has also been a harsh critic of Leno before and following his \"Tonight Show\" timeslot change announcement; Stern appeared on \"Late Night with Conan O'Brien\" in 2006, and told O'Brien that he felt it was unlikely that Leno would ever willingly give up \"The Tonight Show\" to anyone. During the conflict, Stern made many negative remarks directed at Leno while on the \"Late Show with David Letterman\".\n\nIn addition to criticism about his handling of the timeslot conflict, Leno has also been criticized for the perceived change in the content of his monologues from his previous stand-up material. Actor and comedian Patton Oswalt was among the celebrities who openly voiced disappointment with Leno, saying, \"Comedians who don't like Jay Leno now, and I'm one of them, we're not like, 'Jay Leno sucks'; it's that we're so hurt and disappointed that one of the best comedians of our generation... willfully has shut the switch off.\"\n\nNBC Sports chairman and former \"Saturday Night Live\" producer Dick Ebersol spoke out against all who had mocked Leno, calling them \"chicken-hearted and gutless\". Jeff Gaspin, then chairman of NBC Universal Television Entertainment, also defended Leno, saying, \"This has definitely crossed the line. Jay Leno is the consummate professional and one of the hardest-working people in television. It's a shame that he's being pulled into this.\" Fellow comedians Paul Reiser, Jerry Seinfeld and Jim Norton (a frequent contributor to \"The Tonight Show\") also voiced support for Leno.\n\nResponding to the mounting criticism, Leno said that NBC had assured him that O'Brien was willing to accept the proposed arrangement and that they would not let either host out of his contract. Leno also said that the situation was \"all business\", and that all of the decisions were made by NBC. He appeared on the January 28, 2010, episode of \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\" in an attempt to repair some of the damage done to his public image.\n\nLeno's biggest influence and his mentor was Johnny Carson. Other comedians that influenced Leno were Robert Klein, Alan King, David Brenner, Mort Sahl, George Carlin, Don Rickles, Bob Newhart, and Rodney Dangerfield.\n\nComedians that were influenced by Leno include: Dennis Miller and Jerry Seinfeld.\n\nLeno has been married to Mavis Leno since 1980; the couple have no children, by mutual agreement. In 1993, during his first season as host of \"The Tonight Show\", Leno's mother died at the age of 82 and in the following year, his father died at the age of 84. Leno's older brother Patrick Leno, a Vietnam veteran and graduate of Yale Law School, died in 2002 at the age of 62 as a result of complications from cancer.\n\nHe is known for his prominent jaw, which has been described as mandibular prognathism. In the book \"Leading with My Chin\", he stated that he is aware of surgery that could reset his mandible, but does not wish to endure a prolonged healing period with his jaws wired shut.\n\nLeno is dyslexic. He claims to only need four to five hours of sleep each night. Leno does not drink or smoke, nor does he gamble. He spends most of his free time visiting car collections or working in his private garage.\n\nLeno has claimed that he has not spent any of the money that he earned from \"The Tonight Show\". Instead, he lives off his money from his stand-up routines. Leno reportedly earned $32 million in 2005. In 2014, he received an Honorary Doctor of Humane Letters degree from Emerson College where he also delivered the Commencement speech.\n\nIn 2001, he and his wife donated $100,000 to the Feminist Majority Foundation's campaign to stop gender apartheid in Afghanistan, to educate the public regarding the plight of women in Afghanistan under Taliban rule. Mavis Leno is on the board of the Feminist Majority.\n\nIn 2009, he donated $100,000 to a scholarship fund at Salem State College (now Salem State University) in honor of Lennie Sogoloff, who gave Leno his start at his jazz club, Lennie's-on-the-Turnpike.\n\nIn August 2012, Leno auctioned his Fiat 500, which was sold for $385,000 with all the proceeds going to a charity that helps wounded war veterans recover by providing them with temporary housing.\n\nSince 1985, Leno has been the Grand Marshal for the Love Ride, a motorcycle charity event which since its founding in 1984 has raised nearly $14 million for charities benefiting muscular dystrophy research, Autism Speaks, and in 2001, the September 11 attacks recovery.\n\nLeno owns approximately 286 vehicles (169 cars and 117 motorbikes). He also has a website and a TV program called \"Jay Leno's Garage\", which contains video clips and photos of his car collection in detail, as well as other vehicles of interest to him. Leno's Garage Manager is Bernard Juchli. Among his collection are two Doble steam cars, a sedan and a roadster that were owned by Howard Hughes, the fifth Duesenberg Model X known to survive, and one of nine remaining 1963 Chrysler Turbine Cars. The collection also includes three antique electric cars — the 1925 Baker Electric is his wife Mavis' favorite car.\n\nHe has a regular column in \"Popular Mechanics\" which showcases his car collection and gives advice about various automotive topics, including restoration and unique models, such as his jet-powered motorcycle and solar-powered hybrid. Leno also writes occasional \"Motormouth\" articles for \"The Sunday Times\", reviewing high-end sports cars and giving his humorous take on motoring matters.\n\nLeno opened his garage to Team Bondi, the company that developed the critically acclaimed 2011 video game \"L.A. Noire\", which is set in Los Angeles in the late-1940s. Leno's collection contains almost one hundred cars from this period, and allowed the team to recreate their images as accurately as possible.\n\nHosting the 2014 Genesis Prize award ceremony in Jerusalem, Leno made jokes mocking then-President Barack Obama and then-Secretary of State John Kerry, accusing Obama of \"trying to break\" the U.S.'s relationship with Israel.\n\nIn a 2015 interview with \"The Jerusalem Post\", Leno said, \"I always considered Israel as not only the only democracy in the Middle East, I think it’s the purest, because every Israeli voter seems to have his own political party.\" He also added about Israel's relations with other Middle East countries: \"Israel is so efficient in defending itself and so good at it, that to the rest of the world it looks like bullying.\"\n\n \n"}
{"id": "10751191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10751191", "title": "Jim Jefferies (comedian)", "text": "Jim Jefferies (comedian)\n\nGeoff James Nugent (born 14 February 1977), known professionally as Jim Jefferies (and previously Jim Jeffries), is an Australian stand-up comedian, political commentator, actor, and writer. Alongside his stand-up comedy, Jefferies is best known for his work in American television, creating and starring in the FX sitcom \"Legit\" from 2013–2014 and Comedy Central's late-night comedy \"The Jim Jefferies Show\" since 2017.\n\nBorn in Sydney, Australia, as Geoff James Nugent, he initially took the stage name Jim Jeffries but amended the last name to Jefferies to avoid confusion with a similarly named American performer. His father was a cabinetmaker and maintenance worker from Roma, Queensland, and his mother was a substitute teacher. Jefferies grew up in Sydney, before moving to Perth to study musical theatre and classical music at the Western Australian Academy of Performing Arts. He began his stand-up comedy career once he left the Academy several months before completing his degree, relocating initially to Sydney and then to the United Kingdom.\n\nJefferies initially began stand-up with short-form jokes. He moved to long-form jokes when he began doing hour-long sets.\nJefferies first achieved international attention in 2007, when he was attacked onstage while performing at the Manchester Comedy Store. Footage of the incident was incorporated into the comedian's act and can be seen on his 2008 DVD, \"Contraband\". He became well known in the United States in 2009, after his debut HBO special, \"I Swear to God\".\n\nJefferies has performed at numerous festivals, including the Edinburgh Festival Fringe, Just for Laughs Festival, Melbourne International Comedy Festival, Reading and Leeds Festivals and the Glastonbury Festival. Jefferies has also performed spots on \"The World Stands Up\", \"Comedy Blue\" and \"Edinburgh and Beyond\" for Comedy Central.\n\nFollowing the release of his Netflix special, \"Freedumb\", in July 2016, Jefferies has been performing \"The Unusual Punishment Tour\" with all-new material, and filmed his most recent comedy special \"This Is Me Now,\" at the Hammersmith Apollo in London, in January 2018.\n\nIn February 2014 he starred in a low budget Australian feature film called \"Me and My Mates vs the Zombie Apocalypse\" with Australian comedians Greg Fleet and Alex Williamson, which premiered in Australian cinemas on 25 July 2015. It was released in DVD and on Vimeo in Australia and New Zealand in late 2015, in the UK and Ireland on 2 May 2016 and was released in the US on 5 July 2016.\n\nFrom November 2010 to November 2012, Jefferies co-hosted the podcast \"Jim and Eddie Talkin' Shit\" with his fellow comedian and former roommate, Eddie Ifft. Jefferies had to quit because of his busy work schedule.\n\nJefferies's comedy series \"Legit\" premiered on 17 January 2013 on FX. A second season premiered on 26 February 2014, having been moved to FXX. The series received positive attention among the disabled community for its portrayal of people with mental and physical disabilities. The series was cancelled after two seasons.\n\nOn 3 March 2017, Comedy Central announced \"The Jim Jefferies Show\", a new ten-episode weekly series, that premiered on 6 June 2017. Jefferies, hosting the show, takes a look on culture and politics behind his desk, and travels around the world to tackle the week’s top stories and most controversial issues. On 25 July 2017, the first season was extended with ten additional episodes, that completed airing on 21 November 2017. On 15 January 2018, Comedy Central renewed the series for a twenty-episode second season, which premiered on 27 March 2018.\n\nJefferies has appeared on comedy panel shows such as \"Never Mind the Buzzcocks\", \"Have I Got News for You\", \"The Heaven and Earth Show\" and \"8 Out of 10 Cats\", the US comedy panel show \"The Green Room with Paul Provenza\" and Comedy Central's \"@midnight\". He has also been featured on various radio programmes, including BBC Radio 5 Live's Saturday morning sports show, \"Opie and Anthony\", and \"Fighting Talk\".\n\nJefferies was previously in a relationship with actress Kate Luyben. Together, they have a son named Hank, born in November 2012. Jefferies describes himself as an atheist.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43359388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43359388", "title": "Johnnie Colemon", "text": "Johnnie Colemon\n\nJohnnie Colemon (February 18, 1920 – December 23, 2014) was the founder of several large organizations within the African-American New Thought movement, including Christ Universal Temple (CUT) and the Universal Foundation for Better Living (UFBL). The Johnnie Colemon Theological Seminary is named in her honor.\n\nColemon was born in Centerville, Alabama on February 18, 1920 but her family moved to Columbus, Mississippi at an early age, and she identified more with that location as her birthplace, leading others to misidentify Columbus, Mississippi as her place of origin. She attended Union Academy High School and graduated from Wiley College with a Bachelor of Arts in 1943. She then taught at schools in Mississippi and Chicago.\n\nColemon was ordained as a Unity Minister in 1956 and promptly founded Christ Universal Temple, a Chicago-based megachurch. In 1974 Colemon founded the Universal Foundation for Better Living, \"an international association of Bible-based New Thought Christian churches, centers, and study groups.\" She received a Candace Award from the National Coalition of 100 Black Women in 1987.\n\nColemon retired in 2006. She died on December 23, 2014 at the age of 94.\n\n"}
{"id": "163554", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=163554", "title": "Juan de Oñate", "text": "Juan de Oñate\n\nJuan de Oñate y Salazar (; 1550–1626) was a conquistador from New Spain, explorer, and colonial governor of the province of Santa Fe de Nuevo México in the viceroyalty of New Spain. He led early Spanish expeditions to the Great Plains and Lower Colorado River Valley, encountering numerous indigenous tribes in their homelands there. Oñate founded settlements in the province, now in the Southwestern United States.\n\nToday Oñate is known for the 1599 Acoma Massacre. Following a dispute that led to the death of thirteen Spaniards at the hands of the Acoma, including Oñate's nephew, Juan de Zaldívar, Oñate ordered a brutal retaliation against Acoma Pueblo. The Pueblo was destroyed. Around 800-1000 Acoma were killed.\n\nOf the 500 or so survivors, at a trial at Ohkay Owingeh, Oñate sentenced most to twenty years of forced \"personal servitude\" and additionally mandated that all men over the age of twenty-five have a foot cut off. He was eventually banished from New Mexico and exiled from Mexico City for five years, convicted by the Spanish government of using \"excessive force\" against the Acoma people.\n\nToday, Oñate remains a controversial figure in New Mexican history: in 1998 the right foot was cut off a statue of the conquistador that stands in Alcalde, New Mexico in protest of the massacre, and significant controversy arose when a large equestrian statue of Oñate was erected in El Paso, Texas in 2006.\n\nOñate was born either in 1550 or 1552, at Zacatecas in New Spain (colonial México) to a family of Spanish-Basque colonists and silver mine owners. His father was the conquistador and silver baron Cristóbal de Oñate, a descendant of the noble house of Haro. His mother was Doña Catalina Salazar y de la Cadena who was a descendant by her maternal line of a famous Jewish converso family, the Ha-Levi's. His ancestor Cadena fought in the 1212 Battle of Las Navas de Tolosa in Al-Andalus, and was the first to break through the line of defense protecting Mohammad Ben Yacub. The family was granted another coat of arms, and thereafter were known as \"Cadenas\".\n\nJuan de Oñate married Isabel de Tolosa Cortés de Moctezuma, granddaughter of Hernán Cortés, the conqueror of the Triple Alliance, and the great-granddaughter of the Aztec Emperor Moctezuma Xocoyotzin.\n\nIn response to a bid by Juan Bautista de Lomas y Colmenares, and subsequently rejected by the King, in 1595 Philip II's Viceroy /Luis de Velasco selected Oñate from two other candidates to organize the resources of the newly acquired territory.\n\nThe agreement with Viceroy Velasco tasked Oñate with two goals; the better-known aim was to explore and colonize the unknown lands annexed into the New Kingdom of León y Castilla (present day New Mexico) and the Viceroyalty of New Spain. His second goal was to capture Capt. Francisco Leyva de Bonilla (a traitor to the crown known to be in the region) as he already was transporting other criminals. His stated objective otherwise was to spread Catholicism by establishing new missions in Nuevo México. Oñate is credited with founding the Province of Santa Fe de Nuevo México, and was the province's first colonial governor, acting from 1598 to 1610. He held his colonial government at Ohkay Owingeh, and renamed the pueblo there 'San Juan de los Caballeros'.\n\nIn late 1595, the Viceroy de Zúñiga, followed his predecessor's advice and in the summer of 1596 delayed Oñate's expedition in order to review the terms of the original agreement signed, before the previous Viceroy had left office. In March 1598, Oñate's expedition moved out and forded the Rio Grande (Río del Norte) south of present-day El Paso and Ciudad Juárez in late April.\n\nOn the Catholic calendar day of Ascension, April 30, 1598, the exploration party assembled on the south bank of the Rio Grande. In an Ascension Day ceremony, Oñate led the party in prayer, as he claimed all of the territory across the river for the Spanish Empire. Oñate's original terms would have make this land a separate viceroyalty to the crown in New Spain; this move failed to stand after de Zúñiga reviewed the agreement.\n\nAll summer, Oñate's expedition party followed the middle Rio Grande Valley to present day northern New Mexico, where he engaged with Pueblo Indians. Gaspar Pérez de Villagrá, a captain of the expedition, chronicled Oñate's conquest of New Mexico's indigenous peoples in his epic \"Historia de la Nueva México\", published in 1610.\n\nIn October 1598, a skirmish erupted when a squad of Oñate's men demanded supplies from the Acoma Pueblo, although the Acoma themselves needed their stored food to survive the coming winter. The Acoma resisted and 11 Spaniards were killed, including Oñate's nephew, Juan de Zaldívar. \nIn January 1599, Oñate condemned the conflict as an uprising and ordered the pueblo destroyed, a mandate carried out by Juan de Zaldívar's brother, Vicente de Zaldívar, in an offensive known as the Acoma Massacre. An estimated 800-1000 Acoma died in the siege of the pueblo, and the 500 survivors were put on trial and sentenced by Oñate. All men and women older than 12 were enslaved for 20 years. In addition, men older than 25 (24 individuals) had one foot amputated.\n\nIn 1601, Oñate undertook a large expedition east to the Great Plains region of central North America. The expedition party included 130 Spanish soldiers and twelve Franciscan priests - similar to the expedition of the Spanish conquest of the Aztec Empire - and a retinue of 130 Indian soldiers and servants. The expedition possessed 350 horses and mules. Oñate journeyed across the plains eastward from New Mexico in a renewed search for Quivira, the fabled \"city of gold.\" As had the earlier Coronado Expedition in the 1540s, Oñate encountered Apaches in the Texas Panhandle region.\n\nOñate proceeded eastward, following the Canadian River into the modern state of Oklahoma. Leaving the river behind in a sandy area where his ox carts could not pass, he went across country, and the land became greener, with more water and groves of Black walnut (\"Juglans nigra\") and bur oak (\"Quercus macrocarpa\") trees.\n\nJusepe probably led the Oñate party on the same route he had taken on the Umana and Leyba expedition six years earlier. They found an encampment of native people that Oñate called the Escanjaques. He estimated the population at more than 5,000 living in 600 houses. The Escanjaques lived in round houses as large as in diameter and covered with tanned buffalo robes. They were hunters, according to Oñate, depending upon the buffalo for their subsistence and planting no crops.\n\nThe Escanjaques told Oñate that a large settlement of their enemies, the Rayado Indians, was located only about twenty miles away in a region called Etzanoa. It seems possible that the Escanjaques had gathered together in large numbers either out of fear of the Rayados or to undertake a war against them. They attempted to enlist the assistance of the Spanish and their firearms, alleging that the Rayados were responsible for the deaths of Humana and Leyva a few years before.\n\nThe Escanjaques guided Oñate to a large river a few miles away and he became the first European to describe the tallgrass prairie. He spoke of fertile land, much better than that through which he had previously passed, and pastures \"\"so good that in many places the grass was high enough to conceal a horse.\" He found and tasted a fruit of good flavor, possibly the pawpaw.\n\nNear the river, Oñate's expedition party and their numerous Escanjaque guides saw three or four hundred Rayados on a hill. The Rayados advanced, throwing dirt into the air as a sign that they were ready for war. Oñate quickly indicated that he did not wish to fight and made peace with this group of Rayados, who proved to be friendly and generous. Oñate liked the Rayados more than he did the Escanjaques. They were \"united, peaceful, and settled.\" They showed deference to their chief, named Caratax, whom Oñate detained as a guide and hostage, although \"treating him well.\"\"\n\nCaratax led Oñate and the Escanjaques across the river to a settlement on the eastern bank, one or two miles from the river. The settlement was deserted, the inhabitants having fled. It contained \"about twelve hundred houses, all established along the bank of another good-sized river which flowed into the large one [the Arkansas]... the settlement of the Rayados seemed typical of those seen by Coronado in Quivira in the 1540s. The homesteads were dispersed; the houses round, thatched with grass, large enough to sleep ten persons each, and surrounded by large granaries to store the corn, beans, and squash they grew in their fields.\" With difficulty Oñate restrained the Escanjaques from looting the town and sent them home.\n\nThe next day the Oñate expedition proceeded onward for another eight miles through heavily populated territory, although without seeing many Rayados. At this point, the Spaniards' courage deserted them. There were obviously many Rayados nearby and soon Oñate's men were warned that the Rayados were assembling an army. Discretion seemed the better part of valor. Oñate estimated that three hundred Spanish soldiers would be needed to confront the Rayados, and he turned his soldiers around to return to New Mexico.\n\nOñate had worried about the Rayados hurting or attacking his expedition party, but it was instead the Escanjaques who repelled his men on their return to New Mexico. Oñate described a pitched battle with 1,500 Escanjaques, probably an exaggeration, but many Spaniards were wounded and many natives killed. After more than two hours of fighting, Oñate himself retired from the battlefield. The hostage Rayado chief Caratax was freed by a raid on Oñate and Oñate freed several women captives, but he retained several boys at the request of the Spanish priests for instruction in the Catholic faith. The attack may have arisen from Oñate's kidnapping of Caratax and the women and children.\n\nOñate and his men returned to San Juan de los Caballeros, arriving there on November 24, 1601 without any further incidents of note.\n\nThe path of Oñate's expedition and the identity of the Escanjaques and the Rayados are much debated. Most authorities believe his route led down the Canadian River from Texas to Oklahoma, cross-country to the Salt Fork, where he found the Escanjaque encampment, and then to the Arkansas River and its tributary, the Walnut River at Arkansas City, Kansas where the Rayado settlement was located. Archaeological evidence favors the Walnut River site. A minority view would be that the Escanjaque encampment was on the Ninnescah River and the Rayado village was on the site of present-day Wichita, Kansas.\n\nAuthorities have speculated that the Escanjaques were Apache, Tonkawa, Jumano, Quapaw, Kaw, or other tribes. Most likely they were Caddoan and spoke a Wichita dialect. We can be virtually certain that the Rayados were Caddoan Wichitas. Their grass houses, dispersed mode of settlement, a chief named Catarax (\"Caddi\" was a Wichita title for a chief), the description of their granaries, and their location all are in accord with Coronado's earlier description of the Quivirans. However, they were probably not the same people Coronado met. Coronado found Quivira 120 miles north of Oñate's Rayados. The Rayados spoke of large settlements called Tancoa — perhaps the real name of Quivira — in an area to the north. Thus, the Rayados were related culturally and linguistically to the Quivirans but not part of the same political entity. The Wichita at this time were not unified, but rather a large number of related tribes scattered over most of Kansas and Oklahoma, so it is not implausible that the Rayados and Escanjaques spoke the same language, but were nevertheless enemies.\n\nOñate's last major expedition went to the west, from New Mexico to the lower valley of the Colorado River. The party of about three dozen men set out from the Rio Grande valley in October 1604. They traveled by way of Zuñi, the Hopi pueblos, and the Bill Williams River to the Colorado River, and descended that river to its mouth in the Gulf of California in January 1605, before returning along the same route to New Mexico. The evident purpose of the expedition was to locate a port by which New Mexico could be supplied, as an alternative to the laborious overland route from New Spain.\n\nThe expedition to the lower Colorado River was important as the only recorded European incursion into that region between the expeditions of Hernando de Alarcón and Melchior Díaz in 1540, and the visits of Eusebio Francisco Kino beginning in 1701. The explorers did not see evidence of prehistoric Lake Cahuilla, which must have arisen shortly afterwards in the Salton Sink.\n\nThey mistakenly thought that the Gulf of California continued indefinitely to the northwest, giving rise to a belief that was common in the 17th century that the western coasts of an Island of California were what was seen by sailing expeditions in the Pacific.\n\nNative groups observed living on the lower Colorado River, were, from north to south, the Amacava (Mohave), Bahacecha, Osera (Pima), at the confluence of the Gila River with the Colorado, in a location later occupied by the Quechan, Alebdoma.\n\nSeen by Oñate below the Gila junction but subsequently reported upstream from there, in the area where Oñate had encountered the Coguana, or Kahwans, Agalle, and Agalecquamaya, or Halyikwamai, and the Cocopah.\n\nConcerning areas that the explorers had not observed directly, they gave fantastic reports about races of human and areas said to be rich in gold, silver, and pearls.\n\nIn 1606, Oñate was recalled to Mexico City for a hearing regarding his conduct. After finishing plans for the founding of the town of Santa Fé, he resigned his post and was tried and convicted of cruelty to both natives and colonists. He was banished from New Mexico for life and exiled from Mexico City for 5 years.\n\nEventually Oñate went to Spain, where the king appointed him head of all mining inspectors in Spain. He died in Spain in 1626. He is sometimes referred to as \"the Last Conquistador.\"\n\nOñate is honored by some for his exploratory ventures but is vilified by others for his cruelty to the Keres people of Acoma Pueblo.\n\nOñate High School in Las Cruces, New Mexico and Oñate Elementary School in Gallup, New Mexico are named after Juan de Oñate. The historic central business district of Española, New Mexico is named Paseo de Oñate, also known as Oñate Street.\n\nIn 1614, Oñate was exiled from what is now New Mexico and charged with mismanagement and excessive cruelty, especially at the Acoma massacre at Acoma Pueblo where, in 1599, after killing 500 warriors and 300 women and children, he ordered the right foot be chopped off of all surviving Acoma warriors. 24 men suffered this fate. Males between the ages of 12 and 25 were also enslaved for 20 years, along with all of the females above the age of 12. When King Phillip of Spain heard the news of the massacre and punishments, Oñate was brought on 30 charges of mismanagement and excessive cruelty in suppressing Indian uprisings. He was found guilty of cruelty, immorality, and false reporting and returned to Spain to live out the remainder of his life. 2014 marked the 400th anniversary of Juan de Oñate's exile from New Mexico. Despite his atrocities, Oñate is still celebrated today at the Española Valley Fiestas.\n\nIn the Northern Rio Grande National Heritage Center (until 2017 the Oñate Monument and Visitor Center) in Alcalde, New Mexico is a 1991 bronze statue dedicated to the man. In 1998 New Mexico celebrated the 400th anniversary of his arrival. Shortly before (December 29, 1997), and the close dates are no coincidence, unknown perpetrator(s) cut off the statue's right foot and left a note saying, \"Fair is fair.\" Sculptor Reynaldo Rivera recast the foot, but a seam is still visible. Some commentators suggested leaving the statue maimed as a symbolic reminder of the foot-amputating Acoma Massacre. A local filmmaker, Chris Eyre, was contacted by one of the two perpetrators, saying \"I'm back on the scene to show people that Oñate and his supporters must be shamed.\" Eyre is working on a documentary \"about the incident and what it reveals about racism in New Mexico.\"\n\nIn 2017 the statue's left foot was painted red, and the words \"Remember 1680\" (year of the Pueblo revolt) were written with paint on the monument's base.\n\nIn 1997, the City of El Paso hired a sculptor, John Sherrill Houser, to create a statue of the conquistador. In reaction to protests, two city councilmembers retracted their support for the project; The $2,000,000 statue took nearly nine years to build and was stationed in the sculptor's Mexico City warehouse. The statue was completed in early 2006. In pieces and transported on flatbed trailers, it was brought to El Paso during the summer and was installed in October. The controversy over the statue prior to its installation was the subject of the documentary film \"The Last Conquistador\", presented in 2008 as part of PBS' \"P.O.V.\" television series.\nThe City of El Paso unveiled the eighteen ton, statue in a ceremony on April 21, 2007. Oñate is mounted atop his Andalusian horse while holding the La Toma declaration in his right hand. The statue was welcomed by segments of the local population and also by the Spanish Ambassador to the United States, Carlos Westendorp. According to Houser, it is the largest and heaviest (bronze) equestrian statue in the world. Acoma tribal members from New Mexico were present and protested the statue.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51273419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51273419", "title": "Last will and testament of Herbert Macaulay", "text": "Last will and testament of Herbert Macaulay\n\nThe Last Will and Testament of Herbert Macaulay contained instructions from Nigerian nationalist Herbert Macaulay to his family and Nigerians about his last wishes.\n\nHerbert Macaulay's will is transcribed below: \n\n\"This is the last WILL and TESTAMENT of me HERBERT SAMUEL HEELAS MACAULAY, Civil Engineer of Kirsten Hall, Balbina Street, in the Colony of Lagos, in the Country of Nigeria, in the West Coast of Africa, made this 6th day of May in the year of our Lord, One Thousand Nine Hundred and Forty-Six. \"\n\n\"I hereby appoint and make Isaac Babalola Thomas, Editor and Proprietor of the Akede Eko, resident at 116 Igbosere Road Lagos, aforesaid, the sole Executor and Trustee of this my last WILL and TESTAMENT. \"\n\n\"All previous WILL whatsoever made my by me at any place so ever, in various and varied circumstances so ever are hereby revoked. \"\n\n\"I give devise and bequeath unto NIGERIA - Political and the Population thereof. All my love without rserve half of what remains should go to NIGERIA - Commercial; and the other half to NIGERIA - Physical; if there is anything yet remaining - it may go to MISS \"NIGERIA\" of the Daily Comet. \"\n\n\"I give, devise and bequeath unto my detractors, inimical friends, antagonist and particularly those who had at any time so ever, libeled my good name or labeled it BAD, my free and frank forgiveness and pardon as it is humanly possible to have and to hold, till death do then snatch. \"\n\n\"I give devise and bequeath unto the LAGOS TOWN COUNCIL, all that piece of Parcel of Land, situate and being at IKOYI CEMETERY, measuring seventy-two inches by forty-eight inches on the surface, and as deep as the regulations allow, or their affection for me can justifiably allow, wherein shall lay my bones, muscles, sinews and earthly frame, to hold and tend, to preserve, present and exhitibe in constant neat and decent condition unto the inhabitants of Lagos, to the casual visitor or Novel resident in Lagos and from generation unto generation. \"\n\n\"I give, devise and bequeath unto the Beardless and Youthful Mallams of the North, my Treasured Moustache to emulate and copy, and withal to note that as the moustache and my Bow tie are both parallel and inseparable on my dress and person; so shall they be at par, and united with their Southern Brethren. \"\n\n\"To all HATERS OF AFRICA and AFRICANS, I pronounced an ANATHEMA, I give the Curse of Paul on Alexander the Coppersmith - I devise the injuction of Aged (2nd Tim. IV:14). \"\n\n\"David in re-ultimate fate of Joab and Shimer (1st King 11, 6 & 9) and I BEQUEATH unto them the plagues of Egypt, the Bubonic of Oko-Awo, and the Yellow Fever of Ogbomoso!\"\n\n\"To every full-blooded African, I give and bequeath an annuity of 365 cheery days, 52 merry weeks and 12 happy months, to commence on the eighty-second day after my demise. \"\n\n\"TO \"OGEDENGBE\" - my pact and tact \"\n\"TO \"NIMBE\" - my haunt and vaunt \"\n\"TO \"DOYIN\" - my pluck and luck \"\n\n\"I give and devise and bequeath unto the Nigerian National Democratic Party - Longevity and Magnanimity of Spirit, and also the Proprietorship of the \"LAGOS DAILY NEWS\" - all other things being equal.\"\n\n\"I give, devise and bequeath unto the United Native African Church Mission, the essence of my lecture now in their possession delivered in September 1941, on the occasion of the Golden Jubilee of that Mission. \"\n\n\"I give and devise unto the NCNC my last orders to operate on my death “MARK TIME FOR FOUR DAYS - ADVANCE TO VICTORY, GOD’S SPEED”\"\n\n\"To Nnamdi Azikiwe my last injunction\"\n\n\"In witness whereunto I set my hands this 6th day of May, 1946\" \n(Sgd) H. MACAULAY, \nTestator\n\nBefore and in the presence of us both who are present at the same time.\n\nGABRIEL (Luminary Avenue Paradise) \nCYGNUS (The Milky Way) His Star Angel \nWitness to Marks;- Theodisius the Scribe (Mortal)\nTheir Angelic X Marks\n"}
{"id": "12368122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12368122", "title": "Life's Too Short (TV series)", "text": "Life's Too Short (TV series)\n\nLife's Too Short is a British sitcom mockumentary created and written by Ricky Gervais and Stephen Merchant, from an idea by Warwick Davis, about \"the life of a showbiz dwarf\". Davis plays a fictionalised version of himself, and both Gervais and Merchant appear in supporting roles as themselves. The show began airing on BBC Two on 10 November 2011. Premium cable channel HBO, which co-produced the series with the BBC, have the US rights and began airing the series on 19 February 2012.\n\nIn January 2013, it was announced that \"Life's Too Short\" would end later in the year with a special that would bring the series' closure. The one-hour special aired on 30 March 2013 in the UK and 5 July 2013 in the US.\n\nThe genesis of the show came when Davis worked with Gervais and Merchant in an episode of the second series of \"Extras\", when he co-starred with Daniel Radcliffe. Gervais said that real Warwick is funny and tells great stories and Stephen Merchant commented of Davis that he helped come up with the idea. Gervais and Merchant approached the BBC about developing a show centred on a character based on Davis.\n\nThe real Warwick tells us these great stories. They're comedy gold. (The show) is a cross between \"Extras\" and \"Curb Your Enthusiasm\" and \"One Foot in the Grave\" but with a dwarf. That is out and out funny.\"\n\nWarwick runs a small person talent agency and playing a twisted version of himself, he's quite conceited, arrogant and manipulative. He is doing this documentary to improve his career as he is going through a messy divorce and needs the money. Warwick bugs Rick and Stephen about whether they have any work, much to their annoyance.\n\nIn an interview with Jonathan Ross, Davis said that his character is egotistical and suffers from small man syndrome, Gervais said of the character He refuses to live his life as a disabled person. We're making him empowered but also give him these foibles\" Third in our trilogy of TV sitcoms … another naturalist observational comedy, dealing with everyday problems, human foibles and social faux pas … but with a dwarf.\n\nGervais first mentioned \"Life's Too Short\" on his blog in February 2010, when he and Merchant were writing and casting the project.\n\nThe pilot for the comedy was commissioned by the BBC in April 2010. Gervais reported on progress in his blog. In April 2010, he stated, \"Some reports are saying that the \"Life's Too Short\" pilot we are shooting in the summer will be aired. It wont . It is a non-broadcast pilot. We will shoot the whole series before anything is aired. We're not sure how many eps [episodes] we will record (probably 6) and not sure when the series will air.\"\n\nGervais wrote on his blog in June 2010 \"Found the last location today for \"Life's Too Short\". It feels great doing this project. Just like \"The Office\" and \"Extras\". Starting from scratch, just me and Steve in a room crafting a brand new show. It doesn't get better than that for me.\" He later wrote that filming of the pilot was undertaken in June and July 2010. Gervais commented in July 2010 \"Finished the pilot for \"Life's Too Short\" too. Just have to write the series now\". The series was produced by Charlie Hanson, who previously produced \"Extras\", and Michelle Farr. The series was executive produced by Gervais and Merchant along with Mark Freeland. On 17 September 2010 the BBC announced, via the BBC Two Controller Janice Hadlow, and the Controller of BBC Comedy Commissioning Cheryl Taylor, that the six-part series had been commissioned and filmed in 2011.\n\nIn June 2010, while talking at the Banff World Media Festival, Gervais described \"Life's Too Short\" as \"the funniest thing we've done.\" Gervais told \"The Hollywood Reporter\" \"We're having so much fun working with Warwick. Pound for pound he is one of the funniest men I know.\" Stephen Merchant said of Davis: \"Warwick is very funny, a very physical comedian which we really made use of … He's very charismatic, very charming in it … I was really pleased. He's a real comic star in waiting.\"\n\nGervais reported in his blog on the progress of writing \"Life's Too Short\" throughout November 2010: \"Had a great week writing \"Life's Too Short\". It's the hardest bit, the most important bit and the most invigorating bit\", and in a later entry \"Wrote one of the funniest sketches we've ever done for \"Life's Too Short\". Six hours hard labour for a potential two minutes screen time.\" In January 2011 he reported that he was still working on the scripts for the show, and in February that he and Merchant were trying to finish writing \"Life's Too Short\".\n\nIn March 2011 Gervais reported on his blog \"Getting ready to film \"Life's Too Short\".\" Merchant confirmed that filming would begin in May 2011. Cast members included Jo Enright, who played Warwick Davis' wife in the pilot, Shaun Williamson, who played himself (known as \"Barry off \"EastEnders\"\") in \"Extras\", Cat Deeley, Rosamund Hanson, Kiruna Stamell and Jamie Dodd. Boxer Mike Tyson also asked Gervais to consider casting him in a role.\n\nOn 31 March 2011 Gervais confirmed on his blog that \"We've basically got first drafts of all seven episodes of \"Life's Too Short\" now. Yes seven!\". As the pilot has already been filmed, the series will comprise eight shows. On 1 April he stated \"Started casting \"Life's Too Short\" this week too. So much fun.\" On 29 April he wrote \"Did the last of the casting today on \"Life's Too Short\". Some amazing cameos too. You know about the [Johnny] Depp one, but hopefully we might be able to keep a couple of the other really big ones under wraps. Not just because of the surprise factor but because it takes the focus away from the real meat of the show.\" On 11 May the cast had their first read-through of all seven episodes, and rehearsals started on the week beginning 16 May 2011 with Gervais commenting \"We've put together an amazing cast so it should be a joy.\" Filming started on 30 May 2011.\n\nOn 22 June 2011 it was announced that Sting and Steve Carell would be filming cameos for the series. The teaser trailer released on the same day featured Keith Chegwin, Les Dennis and Shaun Williamson as well as the three main stars. On 11 July Gervais hinted on his blog that a \"Doctor Who\"-related cameo would be in the show, as well as posting a link to a YouTube video of him and Warwick Davis filmed on the set of \"Life's Too Short\". Earlier in that week he had blogged about how \"Matt Groening's favourite character from \"The Office\" will make a cameo in \"Life's Too Short\"\", along with an on-set photograph of actor Ewen MacIntosh who played Big Keith in \"The Office\".\n\nPrincipal filming ran for eight weeks ending on 22 July 2011.\n\nGervais and Davis attended a question and answer session to discuss the making of \"Life's Too Short\" at the Edinburgh Fringe Festival in August 2011.\n\nA half-hour-long documentary, \"The Making of Life's Too Short\", aired on BBC Two and BBC HD on 5 November 2011, prior to the start of the series run.\n\nAfter the first series finished airing, Gervais confirmed via Twitter that a second series had been commissioned for early 2013. Despite this, Gervais stated on his blog that \"We are thinking of going straight to the Xmas Special. Lazier and lazier. Now it's down to ONE series and a special. Ha ha.\"\n\nThe series finale premiered on 5 July 2013 in the US on HBO and is available to view on HBO Go.\n\n\n\nIn the United Kingdom the first series received mostly mixed reviews. Rachel Tarley, of \"Metro\", described the show as \"tripe\" while David Butcher of the \"Radio Times\" introduced his review of episode six with \"another week, another queasy mix of comedy and unpleasantness.\" Many reviews were deeply critical of the writing – Gwilym Mumford of \"The Guardian\" felt that writers Gervais and Merchant were \"on autopilot,\" referring to the programme as \"strikingly lazy stuff, little more than a predictable checklist of taboos and social faux pas,\" and journalist for \"The Independent\" Robert Epstein likewise branded it \"shoddily derivative\" and potentially degrading. T.J. Barnard, Associate Editor for WhatCulture!, called the show \"a mess. It's aimless, indulgent, self-plagiarizing and cold.\"\n\nHowever, \"Metro\"s review of episode 7 was slightly more positive saying \"\"Life's Too Short\" bowed out tonight with an episode that was more than marginally better than the six previous offerings, not only was the plot stronger than in previous weeks, but there were some genuinely funny scenes too, most notably a discussion between Gervais and Merchant about charity. And Steve Brody as Warwick's ineffectual giggly/depressive accountant continued to shine.\"\n\nMore positive reviews could be found in \"The Telegraph\", where Gerald O'Donovan praised the show for its \"belly laughs and cringe-making moments.\" Likewise, Caroline Frost of \"The Huffington Post\" applauded both the writing and the acting following the first episode, proclaiming that though it could easily have overreached, \"Gervais and Merchant have pulled another one out of the hat.\"\n\nWhile the first episode rated strongly in the UK, the ratings dropped by 40% in the following week, and by the fifth episode the overnight ratings had dropped below a million, to 997,000—35% down on the average audience for its timeslot in the UK.\n\nCritical reaction to the Easter special was more positive, Dan Owen of \"msn.tv\" said \"this Easter special was one of Life's Too Short's better episodes and provided enough laughs and fun to please most viewers.\" He felt that the special felt like a new pilot for the show that \"fixed a few problems.\"\nHe felt that Keith Chegwin, Shaun Williamson and Les Dennis were the funniest parts of the hour. Overall he gave the special 3 stars out of five.\nThe \"Metro\" agreed saying, \"there were laughs to be had here, mainly from the antics of Williamson, Chegwin and Dennis.\"\nThe Guardian praised the episode and called it \"a piece of genius\" and admired it for being \"done with such a breathtaking boldness.\"\n\nHarry Venning of \"The Stage\" gave a positive review of the first series also gave a positive review of the special \"My favourite comedy of 2011 enjoyed a last hurrah. Sadly, it looks as though there will be no second series.\" He felt that Rosamund Hanson provided scene-stealing support as dippy secretary Cheryl.\nHe concluded that overall \"Life's Too Short\" was \"Painfully poignant, beautifully played and constantly inventive, this one-hour special conclusively proved that \"Life’s Too Short\"s own end was also premature.\"\n\nIn the United States the show received generally positive reviews. At Metacritic, which assigns a weighted mean rating out of 100 to reviews from mainstream critics, the show received an average score of 63, based on 14 reviews, which indicates \"Generally favorable reviews\". On Rotten Tomatoes, the show holds a rating of 55% based on 33 critics, with the consensus reading: \"\"Life's Too Short\" is enjoyably crass, but borrows heavily from Ricky Gervais and Stephen Merchant's previous work.\"\n\n\"Life's Too Short\" was released on DVD and Blu-ray on 22 October 2012 in the UK, 7 November 2012 in Australia and on 15 January 2013 in the US.\n\"The Special\" was released onto DVD in the UK on 2 February 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "1989255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1989255", "title": "List of Ethiopians", "text": "List of Ethiopians\n\nThis is a list of Ethiopians, sorted by the field for which they are best known. The list includes people born in and residing in Ethiopia, as well as people strongly associated with Ethiopia, and people of significant Ethiopian ancestry.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1447808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1447808", "title": "List of Young Global Leaders", "text": "List of Young Global Leaders\n\nThis is a list of notable members of the Forum of Young Global Leaders by their year of induction. Each member is asked to join the forum for a five-year period. Members the first year were identified with one of six categories: business, political, intellectual, arts and culture, societal, and opinion.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAll posts held, unless otherwise stated, as of early 2005\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33096389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33096389", "title": "List of oldest living state leaders", "text": "List of oldest living state leaders\n\nThis article lists the 100 longest-lived current or former heads of state or heads of government of sovereign states (often a president, prime minister or monarch) whose age can be proven beyond reasonable doubt. Leaders are not included if no reliable secondary sources have confirmed that the leader is alive within the last 10 years. Leaders currently in office are in bold on purple, with Mahathir Mohamad of Malaysia being the oldest currently-serving head of government and Elizabeth II of the United Kingdom being the oldest currently-serving head of state.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18151373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18151373", "title": "List of people involved in coronations of the British monarch", "text": "List of people involved in coronations of the British monarch\n\nBelow is a list of people involved in coronations of the British monarch:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nCarried by four Knights of the Garter:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "194193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=194193", "title": "List of urban planners", "text": "List of urban planners\n\nList of urban planners chronological by initial year of plan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1687253", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1687253", "title": "Lozen", "text": "Lozen\n\nLozen (c. 1840-June 17, 1889) was a female warrior and prophet of the Chihenne Chiricahua Apache. She was the sister of Victorio, a prominent chief. Born into the Chihenne band during the 1840s, Lozen was, according to legends, able to use her powers in battle to learn the movements of the enemy. According to James Kaywaykla, Victorio introduced her to Nana, \"Lozen is my right hand ... strong as a man, braver than most, and cunning in strategy. Lozen is a shield to her people\".\n\nIn the 1870s, Victorio and his band of Apaches were moved to the deplorable conditions of the San Carlos Reservation in Arizona. He and his followers left the reservation around 1877 and began marauding and raiding, all while evading capture by the military. Lozen fought beside Victorio when he and his followers rampaged against Americans who had appropriated their homeland around west New Mexico's Black Mountain.\n\nAs the band fled American forces, Lozen inspired women and children, frozen in fear, to cross the surging Rio Grande. \"I saw a magnificent woman on a beautiful horse—Lozen, sister of Victorio. Lozen the woman warrior!\", remembers James Kaywaykla, a child at the time, riding behind his grandmother. \"High above her head she held her rifle. There was a glitter as her right foot lifted and struck the shoulder of her horse. He reared, then plunged into the torrent. She turned his head upstream, and he began swimming\".\n\nImmediately, the other women and the children followed her into the torrent. When they reached the far bank of the river, cold and wet but alive, Lozen came to Kaywaykla's mother, Gouyen. \"You take charge, now\", she said. \"I must return to the warriors\", who stood between their women and children and the onrushing cavalry. Lozen drove her horse back across the wild river and returned to her comrades.\n\nAccording to Kaywaykla, \"She could ride, shoot, and fight like a man, and I think she had more ability in planning military strategy than did Victorio.\" He also remembers Victorio saying, \"I depend upon Lozen as I do Nana\" (the aging patriarch of the band).\n\nLate in Victorio's campaign, Lozen left the band to escort a new mother and her newborn infant across the Chihuahuan Desert from Mexico to the Mescalero Apache Reservation, away from the hardships of the trail.\n\nEquipped with only a rifle, a cartridge belt, a knife, and a three-day supply of food, she set out with the mother and child on a perilous journey through territory occupied by Mexican and U.S. Cavalry forces. En route, afraid that a gunshot would betray their presence, she used her knife to kill a longhorn, butchering it for the meat.\n\nShe stole a Mexican cavalry horse for the new mother, escaping through a volley of gunfire. She then stole a vaquero's horse for herself, disappearing before he could give chase. She also acquired a soldier's saddle, rifle, ammunition, blanket and canteen, and even his shirt. Finally, she delivered her charges to the reservation.\n\nThere, she learned that Mexican and Tarahumara Indian forces under Mexican commander Joaquin Terrazas had killed Victorio and most of his warriors in the Battle of Tres Castillos, fought on three stony hills in northeastern Chihuahua.\n\nKnowing the survivors would need her, Lozen immediately left the Mescalero Reservation and rode alone southwest across the desert, threading her way undetected through U.S. and Mexican military patrols. She rejoined the decimated band in the Sierra Madre (in northwestern Chihuahua), now led by the 74-year-old patriarch Nana.\n\nLozen fought beside Geronimo after his breakout from the San Carlos reservation in 1885, in the last campaign of the Apache wars. With the band pursued relentlessly, she used her power to locate their enemies—the U.S. and Mexican cavalries. According to Alexander B. Adams in his book \"Geronimo\", \"she would stand with her arms outstretched, chant a prayer to Ussen, the Apaches' supreme deity, and slowly turn around.\" Lozen's prayer is translated in Eve Ball's book \"In the Days of Victorio\":\n\n<poem>\nUpon this earth\"\nOn which we live\"\nUssen has Power\"\nThis Power is mine\"\nFor locating the enemy.\"\nI search for that Enemy\"\nWhich only Ussen the Great\"\nCan show to me.</poem>\n\nAccording to Laura Jane Moore in the book \"Sifters, Native American Women's Lives\": In 1885 Geronimo and Naiche fled their reservation with 140 followers including Lozen after rumors began circulating that their leaders were to be imprisoned at Alcatraz Island. Lozen and Dahteste began negotiating peace treaties. One of which was that the Apache leaders would be imprisoned for two years then would have their freedom. The American's leaders dismissed the peace treaty and Lozen and Dahteste continued to negotiate. The Apache rebels believed they had strong resolve until it was revealed all the Chiricahuas had been rounded up and sent to Florida. If they wanted to rejoin their kin, the Apache needed to head east. The Apache warriors agreed to surrender and laid down their arms. Five days later they were on a train bound to Florida.\n\nTaken into U. S. military custody after Geronimo's final surrender, Lozen traveled as a prisoner of war to Mount Vernon Barracks in Alabama. Like many other imprisoned Apache warriors, she died in confinement of tuberculosis on June 17, 1889.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40606433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40606433", "title": "Marcus Illions", "text": "Marcus Illions\n\nMarcus Charles Illions (1871–1949) was a master carver of wooden carousel horses and other figures who flourished in the Coney Island section of the New York City borough of Brooklyn in the early 20th Century. \"The New York Times\" referred to him as \"the Michelangelo of carousel carvers\".\n\nIllions was born in 1870 or 1871, in Lithuania becoming a builder of circus wagons before emigrating to England, where he carved carousel horses. An alternative account in an obituary states that he was actually born in England. He came to America in 1888 where he carved for Charles I. D. Looff and William F. Mangels in Coney Island before starting his own company, M. C. Illions and Sons Carousell Works, in 1909. His five children were all active in the business from very early ages, in roles that included carver and commercial artist. At one time in the early 1900s, ten carousels carved by Illions operated in Coney Island.\n\nIllions was an exponent of what has become known as the Coney Island style of carousel figure carving, which \"is characterized by flamboyant horses, bedecked with jewels and gold and silver leaf\". By 1909, Illions' company produced \"a new line of horses with explosive, flying manes and powerful, straining bodies, decked out with latticework harnesses and other virtuoso feats of carving\".\n\nA machine known as Feltman's Carousel is considered by one source to have been Illions' best work. Though no longer intact, 24 of its horses were incorporated into the Flushing Meadows Carousel in 1964 and are still in use today.\n\nThe Great Depression of the 1930s decreased demand for amusement products and Illions experienced financial problems. He died broke in 1949. His legacy includes extant carousels across the United States which are listed here:\nDuring the restoration of the B&B Carousell for its 2013 reopening on the Coney Island Boardwalk, it was discovered that one of the horses is in fact by Marcus Illions. All of the other horses were executed in the early 1920s by another well-known Coney Island carver, Charles Carmel. The Illions horse was one of a set of four executed in 1909 to commemorate the centennial of the birth of Abraham Lincoln, and features colorful rhinestones and a relief of Lincoln's profile. This is the only one of the set that can be ridden by the public today, as the other three are all in private collections. The most recent prior owner of the B&B had used the Illions horse to replace one of the Carmel horses that an earlier owner had removed from the carousel.\n"}
{"id": "24378497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24378497", "title": "Mark Salling", "text": "Mark Salling\n\nMark Wayne Salling (; August 17, 1982 – January 30, 2018) was an American actor and musician. He was known for his role as Noah \"Puck\" Puckerman on the television series \"Glee\".\n\nSalling studied at the Los Angeles College of Music before working as a guitar teacher. He also worked as an occasional actor, appearing in \"\" (1996) and \"The Graveyard\" (2006) before gaining a recurring role in \"Glee\" in 2008. Initially a regular character, from the fifth season he was reduced to a recurring guest star role. On the show, he soloed and dueted on cover versions of various songs. Pursuing a music career, he established his own label, Pipe Dreams Records, in partnership with Fontana Distribution. On this label he released an album, \"Pipe Dreams\", in 2010.\n\nIn January 2013, Salling was accused of sexual battery but settled with his accuser out of court. In December 2015, he was arrested and charged with possession of child pornography. Salling faced between four and seven years' imprisonment after pleading guilty, but he died by suicide prior to his sentencing.\n\nSalling was born in Dallas, Texas as the younger of two children to religious Christian parents; John Robert Salling Jr., an accountant, and Condy Sue Salling (née Wherry), a school secretary. He was home-schooled at an early age. He attended, but did not graduate from Culver Military Academy, and later graduated from Lake Highlands High School in 2001, where he was a classmate of art rock musician Annie Clark, better known as St. Vincent. While he attended high school, he was a member of the school wrestling team. After graduating from high school, Salling attended the Los Angeles Music Academy College of Music in Pasadena, California and began studying guitar, giving guitar lessons to make a living.\n\nSalling sang, wrote, and produced his own music, and played the piano, guitar, bass guitar, and drums. His solo project's (under the stage name \"Jericho\") debut album \"Smoke Signals\" was released on February 8, 2008, under Jericho Records. On October 25, 2010, Salling released a rock/jazz album entitled \"Pipe Dreams\", which was inspired by Alice in Chains, Nine Inch Nails, Miles Davis and Herbie Hancock. It was released by Pipe Dreams Records, Salling's own label, in partnership with Fontana Distribution. He was the composer, performer and producer, of each track. The first single, \"Higher Power\", premiered on August 10, 2010.\n\nFor the television show \"Glee\", he soloed and dueted on cover versions of various songs including; \"Sweet Caroline\", \"Only the Good Die Young\", \"The Lady Is a Tramp\", \"Run Joey Run\", \"Beth\", \"Just Give Me a Reason\", \"Good Vibrations\", and \"Fat Bottomed Girls\". During filming, Salling paid tribute to the cast of \"Glee\" by writing a song and creating a video entitled \"Chillin' on Glee'\", which featured various cast and crew members.\n\nSalling acted in \"\" (1996) and \"The Graveyard\" (2006). In 2008, he was cast as a regular character, Noah Puckerman, on Fox Broadcasting Company series, \"Glee\". On June 28, 2013, it was reported that Salling would not be returning as a regular on \"Glee\" fifth season, but would instead be a recurring guest star on the series.\n\nSalling dated \"Glee\" co-star Naya Rivera from 2007 to 2010, and \"Playboy\" model DJ Roxanne Dawn, from 2010 to 2011. He resided in Shadow Hills, Los Angeles, California.\n\nSalling was a long-time member of the Echo Park Ornithology Club in Los Angeles, and even penned their theme song. The president and founder of the organization said that \"he (Salling) really enjoyed birdwatching a lot, and he really cared about birds... he had a lot of animals at his house and he worked at an animal rescue when I knew him. We went birdwatching together.\"\n\nIn January 2013, Salling's ex-girlfriend Roxanne Gorzela accused him of committing sexual battery by forcing her to have unprotected sex without her consent. He denied the charges and filed a counter-suit for defamation of character. In March 2015, Salling settled with Gorzela out of court after judges ordered him to pay her US$2.7 million.\n\nOn December 29, 2015, Salling was arrested at his Los Angeles home on suspicion of possessing several thousand photos and videos depicting child pornography, following a tip-off to police from one of his ex-girlfriends. He was released later on a $20,000 bailout but a search warrant found more than 50,000 images of child pornography, downloaded between April and December 2015 on his computer and USB flash drives. On May 27, 2016, he was charged with receiving and possessing child pornography. As a result of the charges, Salling was removed from the cast of Adi Shankar's film \"Gods and Secrets\". On September 30, 2017, he pleaded guilty to possession of child pornography, subsequently being registered as a sex offender and entering a treatment program, among other conditions. The guilty plea was formalized on December 18, 2017, with Salling facing four to seven years in jail. Salling's sentencing date was set for March 2018.\n\nSalling was found dead from apparent suicide by hanging on January 30, 2018, near his home in the Sunland area of Los Angeles, six hours after he was reported missing.\n\n"}
{"id": "7831068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7831068", "title": "Marquis St. Evrémonde", "text": "Marquis St. Evrémonde\n\nThe Marquis St. Evrémonde is a fictional character in Charles Dickens' \"A Tale of Two Cities\".\n\nThe Marquis or Monseigneur St. Evrémonde appears (in life) for only three chapters in Book the Second, symbolizing the pitiless, arrogant, French aristocracy. About 60 years old, with a face like a mask, he is Charles Darnay's uncle and twin brother of Charles Darnay's father (now deceased).\n\nWhile still handsome, fashionable, and exquisitely poised, the Marquis St. Evrémonde is out of favor at the royal court for reasons that are not specified. In \"Monseigneur in Town\", the Marquis is greeted without warmth by \"Monseigneur\" (a great lord and senior courtier) at the latter's Parisian reception. Snubbed, he waits until all Monseigneur's sycophants and hangers-on file out, then murmurs a curse sending Monseigneur to the Devil. (Note that the curse is uttered in a mirrored salon, possibly suggesting that it rebounds on the speaker.) The Marquis St. Evrémonde's carriage heads for his country chateau through the streets of Paris, at the break-neck pace favored by the nobility. Although most pedestrians scatter in terror, his carriage runs over a little child; being one of Gaspard's. The Marquis shows no remorse at the sight of the crushed body — inquiring whether his horses are alright — and, \"with the air of a gentleman who had accidentally broke some common thing, and had paid for it\", throws a gold coin to the distraught father. The Defarges appear—Ernest Defarge to comfort the grieving Gaspard; Madame Defarge to stand erect, stare at the Marquis boldly in the face and knit his Fate. The remainder of the crowd watches in cowed silence but an unknown hand throws the coin back into the carriage. Before driving on, the Marquis responds with cold contempt that he would willingly ride over any of \"you dogs\" and exterminate them. This scene foreshadows the oncoming revolution in France.\n\nThe Marquis St. Evrémonde appears in the two following chapters \"Monseigneur in the Country\" (when he is told by a road worker that a dust-covered figure was hanging on to the bottom of his carriage) and \"the \"Gorgon's Head\" (dining with his nephew, Charles Darnay). Dickens uses his account of the journey of the indifferent Marquis through the countryside surrounding his chateau to graphically describe the poverty and desperation of the peasantry.\n\nDuring the dinner between uncle and nephew, Charles Darnay apologizes for being detained in London. He alludes to his danger there (his recent treason trial) wondering aloud if his uncle did not in fact orchestrate the accusations brought against him. Charles further believes that if the Marquis were still in the French Court's good graces, he would obtain a \"lettre de cachet\" and have his nephew imprisoned in France. His uncle confesses that for the honor of the family, he '\"would do exactly that'\".\n\nThe dinner conversation between uncle and nephew reveals their diametrically opposed view of the rural peasantry. St. Evrémonde the elder considers it a divine duty to subjugate \"the Vulgar\", (\"Repression is the only lasting philosophy…\"). He regrets that recent reforms have placed some restraints on the formerly absolute powers of his class to abuse their inferiors; recalling that at an earlier date he had one peasant poniarded in his very bedroom for \"professing some insolent delicacy respecting his daughter\". Charles Darnay, by contrast, hopes to honor his mother’s dying wish by ameliorating the wrongs the family has caused. When his uncle laughs at this, Charles renounces his rights to the Evrémonde title and lands, in favor of a new life in London. His uncle, slyly, already knows that this \"new life\" includes an emigree doctor and his daughter.\n\nThey retire for the night.\n\nAt the conclusion of Chapter 9, the Marquis is found stabbed to death in his bed. “The Gorgon had surveyed the building again in the night, and had added the one stone face waiting for two hundred years.\" (Chapter 9). All of his property is inherited by Darnay, who remains in London but instructs an agent to redress grievances as far as possible in the growing confusion of the pending revolution.\n\nA year later Gaspard, assassin of the Marquis and father of the child ridden down by his carriage, is captured and executed, his body left hanging above the village water fountain. Subsequently the Evrémonde chateau is burned to the ground at night by \"Jacques\" revolutionaries while the abused villagers watch in grim silence and the officers of a neighboring royal garrison stand helpless because they know that their troops will probably no longer obey their orders.\n\nOnly later in the novel, during the trial of Charles Darnay, is the secret of the Marquis and his brother exposed: Alexandre Manette's diary from the Bastille details how in 1767 the Evrémonde brothers {the younger initially helped by the elder} had abducted and abused a pregnant peasant wife causing her death, fatally wounded her brother who tried to protect her and had brought about the deaths of both the girl's husband and father as well. Manette tries to alert the authorities to the Evrémonde crimes but his letter is passed on to the aristocratic brothers. This was the reason he was imprisoned in the Bastille; likewise this was the inspiration of a lifelong hatred of the Evrémondes by the last member of the wronged girl's family-her sister Madame Defarge who married Manette's servant Ernest Defarge.\n\nThe Marquis St. Evrémonde is referred to as \"Monseigneur\" and \"Monsieur.\" These three different titles all refer to the same person: people who are below the Marquis in rank refer to him as \"Monseigneur\" or \"Monsieur,\" while people of equal rank refer to him as the \"Marquis.\"\n\nNote also that the patronym \"Evrémonde\", suggests an Anglo-French conglomerate, (\"every\" plus \"tout le monde\"). Phonetically, it sounds like “Everyman.”\nAnd, when the phrases \"evre\" and \"monde\" are separately translated from French into English, they mean fever and world, making the name \"Feverworld\".\n\nThe note on the knife in the Marquis chest is signed \"Jacques\"; a common nickname used by the aristocracy for the peasant was \"Jacques Goodman\".\n\nIn the 2008 Broadway musical adaptation of 'A Tale of Two Cities,' the Marquis St. Evrémonde is played by Les Minski, while on film he has been played by such actors as Basil Rathbone, Christopher Lee, and Max Adrian. In 2003, the Rathbone portrayal of St. Evrémonde was nominated for AFI's 100 Years...100 Heroes and Villains as one of the Top 50 Villains.\n"}
{"id": "34003494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34003494", "title": "May El-Khalil", "text": "May El-Khalil\n\nMay El Khalil is the Founder and President of the Beirut Marathon Association, which oversees the annual Beirut Marathon and has been held every autumn since 2003. It was accredited by the International Association of Athletic Federations (IAAF) in 2009. In 2014, the race attracted over 38,000 runners from 104 countries. \n\nBorn in Aley, Lebanon, May El Khalil spent much of her adult life in Nigeria following her marriage to business man Faysal El Khalil. In Nigeria, she established the Lebanese Ladies in Nigeria, a non-governmental organization dedicated to promoting educational development by way of grants and scholarships. \n\nIn 2001, after El Khalil had returned to Lebanon, she suffered a near-fatal accident that placed her in a coma. She spent two years undergoing dozens of surgeries that enabled her to walk again and inspired her to found the Beirut marathon. \n\nIn the aftermath of Lebanese Prime Minister Rafic Hariri’s assassination in February 2005, the Beirut Marathon Association organized the “United We Run” race that attracted 60,000 runners.\n\nEl Khalil has been recognized for her work nationally and internationally; she has received the Power of Sport Award in Lausanne, and the Laureus World Sports Academy Lifetime achievement award in Abu Dhabi. She has been decorated by Lebanese President Michel Suleiman with the National Order of the Cedar, and has been granted appreciation awards from the Lebanese Ministry of Tourism, The Brazil-Lebanon Chamber of Commerce, and the Lebanese Ministry of Youth and Sport. El Khalil was also a Paul Harris Fellow of the Rotary Foundation of Rotary International for 2010 and 2011. In 2013 she was presented with an honorary Ph.D. from LAU (the Lebanese American University). In 2014 she was honoring by YWCA Lebanon on March 8 ( international Women’s day ),\n\nEl Khalil spoke at the TED global conference in Edinburgh Scotland in 2013. In 2014, she was invited as a speaker at the European Innovation Convention on March 10. She was also invited by SEAL foundation as guest of Honor for their annual gala Dinner in New York. The Lebanese Franchise Association has chosen El Khalil to be one of the four recipients of the “ Appreciation Award”. On July 22, 2014 she received the Fair Play and peace award by the Premio Fair Play Mecenate committee in Arezzo, Italy.\n\nEl Khalil has four children and four grandchildren. Faysal M. El-Khalil is presently the Chairman of the Seven-Up Bottling Company based in Nigeria, Tanzania, Ghana and Kenya. Her brother in law is H.E. Anwar M. El-Khalil, a member of the Lebanese Parliament since 1992.\n\n"}
{"id": "22309761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22309761", "title": "Rachel Clinton", "text": "Rachel Clinton\n\nRachel Clinton (née Haffield; c. 1629 – 1694/95), born in Sudbury, Suffolk, England to Richard and Martha Haffield, was a survivor of the Salem witch trials.\n\nIn the spring of 1635 the Haffield family emigrated to New England and sailed upon a ship named \"The Planter\". Rachel was one of five daughters and her mother had been a maid-servant who was later deemed to be mentally insane. Rachel grew up in an affluent household although the Haffield family fortune was ever dwindling.\n\nIn 1639 Rachel's father died and her mother rented out sections of their property to tenants as well as earning an income from spinning (textiles). Her father's will stipulated that his estate be divided evenly among his wife and five daughters. The will triggered years of quarrels and bitterness in the family, particularly in regard to the children of his first marriage. Rachel therefore passed her later childhood years in the absence of an older male in the family as she had no brothers, an atypical situation for the era. The mental condition of her mother continued to deteriorate in the ensuing years and she was declared \"non compos mentis\" in 1666 by local magistrates.\n\nRachel, at age 36, married Lawrence Clinton, who was some fourteen years her junior. Legal proceedings during this entire period were still underway regarding the estate of her late father and Rachel became an unfortunate loser. It was never made clear whether she ever received monies from her rightful inheritance and solicitation was acrimonious to the extent that she descended into destitution having fallen out of favour with her husband.\n\nIn 1671 Rachel accused her husband of not providing her with regular maintenance and he was sentenced to prison until he \"hath paid her 40 shillings for times past\". Rachel herself was ordered \"to entertain him as her husband when he comes to her\". Further legal problems presented themselves when in September 1676 the court convicted Mary Greeley, a maidservant, of \"committing fornication with Lawrence Clinton\".\n\nSoon after, Rachel petitioned for divorce but was herself imprisoned for pursuing an extra-marital affair with a man called John Ford. Both were incarcerated on \"suspicion of uncleanliness and other evil practises\". The two were bound to maintain 'good behaviour' and the relationship with Ford ended. She renewed her efforts to obtain a divorce from Lawrence Clinton, who married again although not divorced from Rachel, sired children, and continued to come before the courts on minor charges of fraud.\n\nFrom this point on Rachel was forced to beg for money to support herself and it is at this stage in her life that allegations of witchcraft begin to appear. A variety of Ipswich, Massachusetts residents were called to give sworn depositions against her in 1692. Allegations were made by a Mary Fuller that Rachel had caused the death of a neighbour simply by passing her by. Another witness, Thomas Boreman, described an incident in the Ipswich meeting-house where \"Some women of worth and quality\" had accused Rachel of \"hunching them with her elbow\". Boreman further alluded that Rachel was able to shape-shift into creatures including a dog and a turtle.\n\nWilliam Baker, a third deponent, attributed the loss of a quantity of beer to Rachel by supernatural means. These are a few examples of dozens of allegations made against Rachel which established her infamy as a practicant of witchcraft. She was alleged to have passed people in the street and yelled \"hellhound\" and \"whoremasterly rogue\" at them.\n\nRachel's vulnerabilities made her a target for predators of the day, including her husband Lawrence, who made use of the Salem Witch Trials to exploit and vilify impoverished women who had fallen through the social classes and from grace when entering the arena of poverty.\n\nRachel Clinton died destitute in late 1694 or during the first week of January 1695 at Ipswich, Essex County, Massachusetts. Although the date of her death does not appear in formal records, on January 7, 1695 the administration of her estate was granted to a Ruth White of Wenham.\n\n"}
{"id": "44324766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44324766", "title": "Ramón de Esparza", "text": "Ramón de Esparza\n\nRamón de Esparza (fl. 1390) was a Basque nobleman, Knight and Lord of the palace Esparza.\n\nRamón was born in Navarra, the son of Rodrigo de Esparza, belonging to the Basque nobility. He and his father had been vassals of Charles III of Navarre, and both attended the coronation of the King, occurred on February 13, 1390, in the Cathedral of Santa María.\n\nRamón de Esparza had an active participation during the Hundred Years' War, serving as Captain of the Garrison of Charles III in Cherbourg, Lower Normandy. In 1378, Esparza sent an emissary to England, to request help against the French army of Charles V of France.\n\n"}
{"id": "40658782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40658782", "title": "Rani Sati", "text": "Rani Sati\n\nRani Sati, also identified as Narayani Devi and referred to as Dadiji (grandmother), is said to be a Rajasthani woman who lived sometime between the 13th and the 17th century and committed sati (self-immolation) on her husband's death. Various temples in Rajasthan and elsewhere are devoted to her worship and to commemorate her act.\n\nThe accounts of Rani Sati's life and the events leading to her death vary widely. Her death has been dated to 1295 or 1595 in some re-tellings, while others place her in the 14th century, or even the 17th century. One such legend, recounted by Sakuntala Narsimhan, says: \n\n[Rani] was a seventeen-year-old girl of the Bania caste. The legend is that the nawab coveted the white mare that her betrothed rode on, and in the confrontation that ensued, [Rani's husband] Tandhan Das was killed, leaving his faithful servant as the only survivor apart from Dadi Narayani Devi, and her mare. When the servant asked her whether he should take her back to her father's or to her father-in-law's, she is said to have replied that she would become a sati and wherever the horse stopped while carrying the ashes of the couple, a temple to their memory should be raised.\n\nAnother version of the legend, as related by Anne Hardgrove, says:\n\n..., on one day about six hundred years ago a fourteen-year-old Hindu bride named Narayani Devi was coming home for the first time with her husband (of the Jalan lineage) just after their marriage. Her husband worked as a merchant in Jhunjhunu. Muslim invaders suddenly attacked her husband and his companions, brutally killing them. Only Narayani Devi and (in some versions) a loyal Muslim servant named \"Rana\" survived the attack. According to the story, Narayani Devi then bravely burned herself to death by spontaneously bursting into flames to avoid being captured and kidnapped by these invaders. \n\nOther accounts ascribe the killing of her husband to a band of dacoits, and say that Rani died by the same hand in trying to defend her honour. Yet other versions regard Rani as the first of thirteen widows in her Jalan family to commit sati.\n\nSeveral temples in India, especially in the North Western state of Rajasthan, are devoted to Rani Sati and her act of sati. There are numerous other Sati temples in the region including Narayani Sati in Alwar, Dholan Sati in Raipur and Rani Bhatiyani in Jasol. Sati worship had been common in these regions, Banarasidas in his Ardhakathanaka (1643), mentions his family visiting the sati shrine associated with his clan. Though veneration of Rani Sati and patronage of these temples cut across caste, regional and even religious lines, they are particularly prevalent amongst the merchant Marwari community, and its Agrawal sub-caste. Members of those communities have funded the construction of Rani Sati temples, and transformed her status from a \"kuldevi\" (family deity) to a Goddess subject to public worship.\n\nThe most prominent of these shrines is the Rani Sati Temple in the Shekhavati region of Rajasthan, administered and attracting a large following from Kolkata. The temple was inaugurated in 1912, and started off as a set of simple memorial mounds. Construction of a larger complex began in 1917, financed by donations from the Jalan clan of the Agarwal community, and was completed in 1936. As of today, the temple is a monumental complex with a multi-storey structure, a main hall made of marble, and dual courtyards surrounded by rooms that can house up to 300 pilgrims. Rani Sati herself is represented by a trident, and considered a manifestation of the Goddess Shakti. In the sanctum, there is a depiction of Rani Sati surrounded by Ganesha, Shiva and Durga, while a wall frieze recounts the events leading to her husband's death, her self-immolation, and the subsequent construction of the temple itself. The temple is said to have an annual income of Rupees twenty lakhs and assets of Rupees eighty lakhs. The temple trustees also organize a well-attended annual fair to celebrate Rani Sati.\nThere are other Sati shrines belonging to other satis in the same family in the compound. There are other Sati temples in Jhunjhunu belonging to other communities.\n\nA Rajasthani movie \"Laj Rakho Rani Sati\" was released in 1973.\n\nPerhaps the oldest existing Rani Sati temple outside Jhunjhunu dates to 1837 and is located at Kankurgachi in Kolkata. Hundreds of other Rani Sati temples are located in Bombay, Delhi, Varanasi, Kolkata, Hyderabad and other places in India, as well as in Rangoon, Bangkok, Singapore, Hong Kong, Japan and the United States. On 1 December 1980, a public procession taken out by Rani Sati devotees in New Delhi to celebrate the construction of a new Rani Sati temple in the city was protested against by feminists and those opposed to the practice of sati. This led to discussions in both houses of the Indian Parliament over promotion of the practice of sati, and Prime Minister of India Indira Gandhi halted construction of the new temple, calling \"satipuja\" (worship of \"sati\"s) a \"barbaric medieval, and illegal\" practice.\n\nIn 1996, many of Rani Sati devotees celebrated the 400th anniversary of her supposed birthday on 4 December, including at a large public yagna near the temple at Jhunjhunu (the date was possibly picked in tacit protest of the formal banning of sati in Bengal Presidency by Lord Lord William Bentinck on 4 December 1829.)\n\nOn 20 November 2015 its been marked as 734 Birthday of Dadi Rani Sati\n\nThe practice of worshiping \"sati\"s has often been subject of controversy in India, and the Rani Sati Temple at Jhunjhunu came under particularly harsh spot-light when a 19-year widow Roop Kanwar (who was reported to be a devotee of Rani Sati) committed sati in 1987 in the nearby town of Deorala. Following Kanwar's immolation, the Indian government issued an order proscribing the 'glorification of Sati', and tried banning the annual fair at Jhunjhunu. The Calcutta High Court lifted the ban, and on appeal, the Supreme Court of India modified it to allow worship of Rani Sati within the temple while forbidding the celebration of her sati through the \"chunari\" ceremonies in which brides seek the Goddess's blessings by offering her their bridal veils. The court also disallowed the fair, which is held on the temple's outer grounds. However the controversy and court decisions, brought even greater attention to the town of Deorala and the Rani Sati temple, and attracted thousands of pilgrims to the temple and the fair that year. Elsewhere in India, while many Rani Sati temples halted their public celebrations soon after Roop Kanwar's death, their activities resumed within a few years.\n"}
{"id": "1368905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1368905", "title": "Rash Behari Bose", "text": "Rash Behari Bose\n\nRash Behari Bose (; \"Rashbihari Boshu\"; 25 May 188621 January 1945) was an Indian revolutionary leader against the British Raj and was one of the key organisers of the Ghadar Mutiny and later the Indian National Army. He was born in Subaldaha village of Purba Bardhaman district in West Bengal.\n\nRash Behari Bose was born in village Subaldaha, Purba Bardhaman district, in West Bengal. His father's name was Binod Behari Bose. Bhubaneswari Devi was his mother. Tinkori Dasi was Rashbehari Bose's foster mother. The major part of the childhood of Rashbehari Bose and Sushila Sarkar was spent in the village Subaldaha. They lived in this village at the house of madam Bidhumukhi. Bidhumukhi was a widow from her early life. Bidhumukhi was the sister in law of Kalicharan Bose. His early education was completed under the supervision of his grandfather Kalicharan Bose at village Pathsala (Presently Subaldaha \nRashbehari Bose F.P School) at his birthplace. Rash Behari Bose got an education of Lathi Khela in his child at Subaldaha. He got inspiration of revolutionary movement hearing stories from his grandfather at his birthplace Subaldaha. He was the cynosure of all villagers. His nickname was Rasu. He was stubborn and the villagers loved him very much. It is heard from villagers that he was at Subaldaha till he was 12 or 14 years old. His father, Binod Behari Bose, was stationed in Hooghly district. Bose studied in Dupleix College with his friend Shrish Chandra Ghosh. The principal Charu Chandra Roy inspired them into revolutionary politics. Later he joined \"Morton school\" in Kolkata. Bose later earned degrees in the medical sciences as well as in Engineering from France and Germany.\n\nHe was interested in revolutionary activities from early on in his life, he left Bengal to shun the Alipore bomb case trials of (1908). At Dehradun he worked as a head clerk at the Forest Research Institute. There, through Amarendra Chatterjee of the Jugantar led by Jatin Mukherjee (Bagha Jatin), he secretly got involved with the revolutionaries of Bengal and he came across eminent revolutionary members of the Arya Samaj in the United Provinces (currently Uttar Pradesh) and the Punjab. Originally Rash Behari Bose stay few years in Hooghly district, West Bengal.\n\nFollowing the attempt to assassinate Lord Hardinge, Rash Behari was forced to go into hiding. The attempt was made on 23 December 1912 in Delhi when Lord Hardinge was in a ceremonial procession transferring the capital from Calcutta to New Delhi. He was attacked near the Red Fort by Basanta Kumar Biswas a disciple of Amrendar Chattarjee, but missed the target and failed. The bomb was made by Manindra Nath Nayak. Bose was hunted by the colonial police due to his active participation in the failed assassination attempt (actually Bose's aim was to prove to the world that Indians do not accept the subjection of his country to foreign rule by consent, but by force of military power, which was successful. Otherwise, he had no personal enmity with Lord Hardinge) directed at the Governor General and Viceroy Lord Charles Hardinge in Delhi. He returned to Dehra Dun by the night train and joined the office the next day as though nothing had happened. Further, he organized a meeting of loyal citizens of Dehradun to condemn the dastardly attack on the Viceroy.\n\nLord Hardinge, in his \"My Indian Years\", described the whole incident in an interesting way. During the flood relief work in Bengal in 1913, he came in contact with Jatin Mukherjee in whom he \"discovered a real leader of men,\" who \"added a new impulse\" to Rash Behari's failing zeal. Thus during World War I he became extensively involved as one of the leading figures of the Gadar Revolution that attempted to trigger a mutiny in India in February 1915. Trusted and tried Ghadrites were sent to several cantonments to infiltrate into the army. The idea of the Gadar leaders was that with the war raging in Europe most of the soldiers had gone out of India and the rest could be easily won over. The revolution failed and most of the revolutionaries were arrested. But Rash Behari managed to escape British intelligence and reached Japan in 1915.\n\nBose fled to Japan in 1915, under the alias of Priyanath Tagore, a relative of Rabindranath Tagore. There, Bose found shelter with various Pan-Asian groups. From 1915–1918, he changed residences and identities numerous times, as the British kept pressing the Japanese government for his extradition. He married the daughter of Aizō Sōma and Kokkō Sōma, the owners of Nakamuraya bakery in Tokyo and noted Pan-Asian supporters in 1918, and became a Japanese citizen in 1923, living as a journalist and writer. It is also significant that he was instrumental in introducing Indian-style curry in Japan. Though more expensive than the usual \"British-style\" curry, it became quite popular, with Rash Bihari becoming known as \"Bose of Nakamuraya\".\n\nBose along with A M Nair was instrumental in persuading the Japanese authorities to stand by the Indian nationalists and ultimately to officially actively support the Indian independence struggle abroad. Bose convened a conference in Tokyo on 28–30 March 1942, which decided to establish the \"Indian Independence League\". At the conference, he moved a motion to raise an army for Indian independence. He convened the second conference of the League at Bangkok on 22 June 1942. It was at this conference that a resolution was adopted to invite Subhas Chandra Bose to join the League and take its command as its president.\n\nThe Indian prisoners of war captured by the Japanese in the Malaya and Burma fronts were encouraged to join the Indian Independence League and become the soldiers of the Indian National Army (INA), formed on 1 September 1942 as the military wing of Bose's Indian National League. He selected the flag for the Azad Hind movement and handed over the flag to Subhas Chandra Bose. But although he handed over the power, his organizational structure remained, and it was on the organizational spadework of Rash Behari Bose that Subhas Chandra Bose later built the Indian National Army (also called 'Azad Hind Fauj'). Prior to his death caused by tuberculosis, the Japanese Government honored him with the Order of the Rising Sun (2nd grade).\n\nBose met Toshiko Soma when he was hiding at her house in Shinjuku City. She was the daughter of Aizō Sōma and Kokkō Sōma, the owners of Nakamuraya bakery() in Tokyo and noted Pan-Asian supporters in 1918. At that time, Bose was a fugitive with the British searching for him. Their initial contact was during those intense moments of hiding though without any interactions. In 1916, when Bose was a fugitive no more, he invited the Soma family to his house as a gesture of gratitude. That was the first instance of their interaction in a social context.\n\nHowever, Bose stuck out like a sore thumb in Japan. People would consider them with suspicion. Mitsuru Toyama, as a solution propsed to the Soma's a marriage between Toshiko and Rashbehari. He thought that marriage with a Japanese citizen would make it easy for Bose to apply for citizenship. Despite their initial reservations, the Soma's agreed to the match. When, they asked for Toshiko's consent, she took three weeks to decide. \n\nThey had a happy marriage. Bose taught Toshiko Bengali and how to wear a sari.\n\nBose got Japanese citizenship in 1923. Toshiko's health declined soon after and it claimed her life in 1924.\n\nTheir marriage lasted for eight years. After her death, he never remarried. They were buried together after Bose's death.\n\nThey had two children together. Masahide Bose (Bharatchandra) was born in 1920. He died in WWII aged only 24. Their daughter Tetsuko was born in 1922.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2349187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2349187", "title": "Ray Buttigieg", "text": "Ray Buttigieg\n\nRay Buttigieg (born May 1, 1955 in Gozo, Malta) is a poet and musician.\n\nHe attended Qala primary school, then the Lyceum in Victoria, Gozo. He then moved to the United States and continued his studies in New York, where he settled permanently. By the age of 20 he had several poems published in anthologies in London and New York City.\n\nBest known for \"Pastorale\" (1978), \"Poeticus I & II\" (1986) and (1992), and the very first book he ever wrote in his late teens \"Wizard's Spider Mystic Glider\" (1989) which are written in a classical style; he received criticism when he later introduced a more modern style in his experiments and improvisational poetry. In the last few years he returned to his earlier style in works like \"The Wisdom of Stones\" (2002), \"Remnants from the Book of Time\" (2002), and \"The Procession\" (1999). Although for the last 25 years Buttigieg has been writing only in English and very little in his native Maltese, his subject matter still includes a great deal of influence from his native Malta.\n\nRay Buttigieg since the age of ten became extremely interested in music when he started to sing Latin hymns on the gallery of the grand pipe organ at St Joseph's church. He was also attracted to pieces of metal of various sizes, weights and alloys as well as short wave radios where he thought the combination of these found instruments are uniquely musical that could be used as effects. He later learned the guitar and started to write songs for his first rock improvisational band.\n\nButtigieg started his professional musical career in New York and Philadelphia where he fronted a six piece glam/rock band Cykx where his catchy tunes mixed with his lyrical poetry produced two top ten pop hits in the mid-seventies. At the same time synthesizers and computers and several electronic music experiments on tape were becoming more interesting to Ray Buttigieg than bandmates who could never agree on anything. Soon the band was defunct and a new project band started. Ray Buttigieg/Cykx, Cykx being the computer that replaced the members of the band. The pop or rock compositions now became explorations and experiments in sound. \"Compucircuit 0.008 m/s\" (1981), \"Mechanism of Thought\" (1984) were both very ground breaking albums.\n\nButtigieg believed that electronic synthesisers was a third 'high' in music, the first and second being acoustic and electric instruments.\n\nButtigieg embarked on a solo career ever since he set eyes on his first keyboards, a Mellotron. He was involved in multiple projects at the same time while being involved in solo major works and other series concepts like \"Earth noise\" and \"Sound Science Series\" in the 70's and \"The Symphonic Poems\", \"Music for \" and \"Diary of an Earthling\" series in the 80's. Film and Video work were also becoming a very interesting avenue to combine visuals, poetry and as the music soundtrack that would define the visuals all done under the same roof. He continued his career by producing some influential and lush albums like \"Sound of Transformation – Symphonic Poem No.1\" (1982), \"Quantum Mechanics\" (1985), \"Music for Movies\" (1986), \"Codes\" (1987) and \"Musical Instincts of Nature\".\n\nSince the very beginning of his career in the mid-70's, Buttigieg has been sought after for creative guidance, collaborating, producing and as the idea man. His string of credits include in Rebellion, Process and After Thought in the 80's, and in the 90's co-wrote songs and produced bands like Novi Mystici, Prosper Falls, Selfish like Magnets and Noise Button. In the last few years of the new millennium Buttigieg has written songs for other artists in the genres of popular music/pop song, gothic format and has gone aggressively into everything electronic whether it is electronica, ambient, new age or electronic producing and collaborating with bands like FTSG, Dyr3, System 6, Desire becomes Being and Circa 2000 AD for Cykxincorp and Standing Stone Recording Company record labels part of Cykxincorp Group of Companies.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1832135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1832135", "title": "Ray Stantz", "text": "Ray Stantz\n\nRaymond \"Ray\" Stantz, PhD is a fictional character from the \"Ghostbusters\" franchise. He appears in the films \"Ghostbusters\" (1984), \"Ghostbusters II\" (1989), \"Casper\" (1995, as a cameo), the animated television series \"The Real Ghostbusters\" and \"Extreme Ghostbusters\", and the video games Beeline's \"Ghostbusters\" and \"\". He was portrayed by Dan Aykroyd in both live action films, and voiced by Frank Welker in the animated series. He is a member of the Ghostbusters and one of the three doctors of parapsychology, along with Dr. Peter Venkman and Dr. Egon Spengler. Dan Aykroyd has a cameo appearance in \"Ghostbusters\" (2016) as \"Cabbie\".\n\nRay is an expert on paranormal history and metallurgy. He is characterized by his almost childlike enthusiasm towards his work, and his forthright acceptance of paranormal activity. As a result, Peter once during the movie referred to him as \"the heart of the Ghostbusters\". Ray has extensive knowledge of the Bible (to the point of even quoting a specific book and chapter — \"I remember Revelation 7:12\"—about the end of the world, though the passage he quotes is actually Revelation 6:12), but is an agnostic, commenting when asked if he believes in God, \"Never met Him\". As revealed in \"\", Ray attended a seminary at some stage in his life. He is known for his wordy and overly technical explanations of scientific and paranormal phenomena. Ray, along with Egon, is responsible for pioneering the Ghostbusters' theories and designing and building the equipment used for catching and containing ghosts. Ray Stantz appeared in the 1995 film \"Casper\".\n\nBefore being kicked out of the University, Ray was devoting a lot of his workday to interviewing people who had some sort of encounter with the paranormal. After the entanglement with the library ghost, Ray was more motivated to continue on with that type of work. When the guys were let go by Dean Yager, he was initially crushed, primarily concerned with his academic integrity, financial stability, etc. Ray had briefly worked in the private sector beforehand, and knew it wasn't conductive to his line of work, as they expected notable results.\n\nAfter talking with Peter Venkman and Egon Spengler, they all decided to try hunting ghosts full-time. Ray even mortgaged the house he was born in to provide the starting capital to get the company started and lease the firehouse. In addition, he rummaged through used car lots to find a suitable vehicle and repair it to make the Ecto-1.\n\nDr. Stantz also has the distinction of being the first Ghostbuster to meet Slimer. Unlike his other continuity, however Ray dropped his cigarette in fear. He then went proton blasting, after his call for assistance was unheard by Venkman.\n\nRay accidentally chose the form of Gozer's appearance because of his childhood times at Camp Waconda. Despite his initial attempt at negotiations, he wound up fighting Gozer with his Proton Pack. After reversing the particle flow to force Gozer back into his realm, Ray was concerned about the other guys' welfare after the explosion, and then celebrated with them all afterward. Although this was short-lived by the, \"ungrateful, yuppie larvae!\" representing the city, county and state of New York.\n\nIn the second film, following the decline of the Ghostbusters' business, he and Winston were entertainers for parties. When he was not doing that, he was running his bookstore, Ray's Occult Books. However, when Dana Barrett comes to Egon and later Ray, it becomes clear that something supernatural was once again happening underneath New York City.\n\nRay and Egon experiment with the Psychomagnotheric Slime they find and eventually discover a way to not only positively charge the slime, but utilize it to animate the Statue of Liberty in their final assault on Vigo the Carpathian. Ray also briefly becomes the host for Vigo himself, but a liberal dousing of the positively charged mood slime quickly cures him of that.\n\nDan Aykroyd has a cameo appearance as Stantz in \"Casper\". When Carrigan and Dibs are attempting to evict the Ghostly Trio from the McFadden Manor, before contacting Dr. James Harvey, they contact Ray Stantz of the Ghostbusters. After he fails to capture the Ghostly Trio, he runs out of the manor in fear, and says to Carrigan and Dibs:<br>\"Who you gonna call? Someone else.\"\n\nRay has an extended family (which has different nationalities ranging from Swiss to Scottish to Russian), including his Aunt Lois (who appears in the episode, \"The Spirit of Aunt Lois\"), and Uncle Andrew MacMillan of Dunkeld, Scotland (who is mentioned as being deceased in \"Bustman's Holiday\").\n\nRay was born in the Bronx in 1959, according to the episodes \"Citizen Ghost\", and \"It's About Time\", then later moved to Morrisville, which appears in \"Look Homeward Ray\". The latter episode also reveals that Ray's childhood crush was a brunette named Elaine.\n\nDuring the show's run he was the closest member of the team to being a pilot, having won a free flying lesson in 1976, as mentioned in \"You Can't Take It With You\".\n\nRay's surname was misspelled in the series as Stanz, in much the same way as Winston Zeddemore's surname was misspelled Zeddmore.\n\nRay is the only Ghostbuster to wear the original beige jumpsuit uniform in both the animated series and the films, while the other Ghostbusters wore color coded jumpsuits in the animated series - brown for Venkman, light blue for Winston and gray-blue for Egon (presumably to help differentiate them better).\n\nRay appears only in the two-part series finale of \"Extreme Ghostbusters\". After the closing down of the Ghostbusters Ray got a job at a major university. After a \"minor mishap,\" followed by a large explosion, he has a job at Perpetual Motors, a used car company.\n\nA likeness of Aykroyd, circa 1991 (the year in which the game takes place) appears in the \"\", that was released on June 16, 2009. Aykroyd also reprised his role for the game by voicing him. In the game, Stantz is eager to expand his knowledge in regards to researching the paranormal. More than once he asks the Rookie to collect samples and take readings for later research. Ray is also the most vocally supportive of the Rookie.\n\nIt is mentioned that the mortgage for the Ghostbusters Headquarters is in his name. His selection for the Stay Puft Marshmallow Man's form of Gozer's \"Destructor Form\" was mentioned in a quote \"It wasn't me this time, I swear it!\" when the Ghostbusters see that the Stay Puft Marshmallow Man is once again terrorizing New York. Ray is the most visibly shaken to see the Stay Puft Marshmallow Man again.\n\nRay is shown to possess skill in operating nautical vessels (i.e.: migrant sponge observation, mentioned earlier) as he's the primary navigator on Marine Ecto-8.\n\nStantz appears in Beeline's \"Ghostbusters\" game for iOS. The game was released on January 24, 2013.\n\nStantz appears in \"Lego Dimensions\", with archival audio of Dan Aykroyd being used to represent his character.\n"}
{"id": "23583055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23583055", "title": "Richard Morningstar", "text": "Richard Morningstar\n\nRichard L. Morningstar (born 1945) is the former United States Ambassador to Azerbaijan. He was formerly Special Envoy of the United States Secretary of State for Eurasian Energy. Currently, Ambassador Morningstar is the founding Director and Chairman of the Global Energy Center at the Atlantic Council. He also serves as a Senior Advisor at Albright Stonebridge Group, a global business strategy firm.\n\nRichard Morningstar earned a Bachelor of Arts, \"magna cum laude\", from Harvard College and a Juris Doctor from Stanford Law School in 1970.\n\nMorningstar started his career with the law firm of Peabody & Brown (now Nixon Peabody) in Boston, Massachusetts, where he practiced law from 1970 to 1981. He then served as CEO of Costar Corporation, and since 1990 as the Chairman of the Board. Since June 1993, Morningstar served as Senior Vice President for Policy and Investment Development at the Overseas Private Investment Corporation. In April 1995, Morningstar was posted as the Special Advisor to the President and Secretary of State on Assistance to the New Independent States of the Former Soviet Union. His rank of ambassador was confirmed by the Senate on 11 June 1996. In July 1998, he was assigned as a Special Advisor to the President and the Secretary of State for Caspian Basin Energy Diplomacy. In that capacity Morningstar was a promoter of the Baku–Tbilisi–Ceyhan pipeline. In 1999–2001, Morningstar served as the United States Ambassador to the European Union.\n\nBeginning in 2001, Ambassador Morningstar served as a Senior Director at the global strategy firm Stonebridge International (now Albright Stonebridge Group)\n\nOn 20 April 2009, Ambassador Morningstar was named to the position of the Special Envoy of the United States Secretary of State for Eurasian Energy. In that capacity Morningstar represented the United States at the signing ceremony of the intergovernmental agreement of the Nabucco pipeline. He has strongly opposed the possible participation of Iran in the Nabucco project.\n\nMorningstar has been a visiting scholar and diplomat in residence at the Stanford University Institute for International Studies, a lecturer in Law at Stanford Law School and an adjunct professor at Harvard University's John F. Kennedy School of Government.\n\nOn 27 April 2012, Morningstar was nominated for the US Ambassadorship in Azerbaijan. On 30 June 2012, the U.S. Senate confirmed this appointment.\n\nIn 2014 Morningstar was named Director of the Atlantic Council’s New Global Energy Center.\n\nRichard Morningstar is married to Faith Pierce Morningstar, a former board member of the democracy promotion and human rights group Freedom House, with two sons and two daughters.\n"}
{"id": "53307643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53307643", "title": "Richard Platt (military officer)", "text": "Richard Platt (military officer)\n\nRichard Platt (1754 - 1830.) was an aide-de-camp to Alexander McDougall during the Revolutionary War. Platt served as the chairman of the Committee of Arrangements in organizing New York's Federal Procession of 1788, which celebrated the ratification of the United States Constitution. Platt was also a member of the Society of the Cincinnati of the State of New York, for which he served as Treasurer alongside Alexander Hamilton, who served as the society's Vice President\n\nPlatt served as the chairman of the Committee of Arrangements in organizing New York's Federal Procession of 1788, which celebrated the ratification of the United States Constitution. Contrary to popular opinion, New York had not yet ratified the Constitution by the time of that state's Federal Procession. Once news that sufficient ratification by the requisite nine states had been achieved upon New Hampshire's ratification on June 21, 1788, officials in New York City planned a celebratory procession for July 22, hoping that by that time, New York would have also ratified the constitution. Although New York still had not ratified as the planned procession's date approached, Platt determined that, due to the overwhelming public excitement surrounding the constitution's consummation, the celebratory procession could no longer be delayed, saying: \"The day having been more than once postponed in the interesting hope that this state, then in its convention, would likewise accede to the Union, the Committee of Arrangements found it impossible any longer to oppose this patriotic ardor of their fellow citizens.\"\n\nNew York's procession was finally set for July 23, 1788. By that time, Virginia had also acceded to the constitution, bringing the total number of states which had ratified the constitution to ten. New York's procession was thus organized into ten divisions, being various groups of merchants, tradesmen, and mechanics, to celebrate those states.\n\nOn February 15, 1787, Platt was admitted as a member of the New York Manumission Society, which promoted the manumission of slaves. Another notable member of the society was Alexander Hamilton.\n\nOn July 8, 1788, Platt was appointed the Treasurer of the Society of the Cincinnati of the State of New York, serving alongside Alexander Hamilton, who on that date was appointed the society's Vice President.\n"}
{"id": "13992803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13992803", "title": "Robert Reece", "text": "Robert Reece\n\nRobert Reece (2 May 1838 – 8 July 1891) was a British comic playwright and librettist active in the Victorian era. He wrote many successful musical burlesques, comic operas, farces and adaptations from the French, including the English-language adaptation of the operetta \"Les cloches de Corneville\", which became the longest-running piece of musical theatre in history up to that time. He sometimes collaborated with Henry Brougham Farnie or others.\n\nReece was born in the island of Barbados, West Indies. His father, Robert Reece (1808–1874), was a barrister of the Inner Temple. Reece matriculated from Balliol College, Oxford in 1857 and received his B.A. in 1860 and his M.A. in 1864. He was admitted a student at the Inner Temple in 1860 but was not called to the bar. For a short time he was a medical student. Between 1861 and 1863, he was an extra clerk in the office of the ecclesiastical commissioners, and from 1864 to 1868 an extra temporary clerk to the emigration commissioners.\n\nFrom the 1860s to the 1880s, Reece wrote comic pieces for the stage with fair success, often adapting three-act European operettas into two-act English-language pieces. He even scored a number of hits, including his adaptation of \"Les cloches de Corneville\", which ran for over 700 performances in 1878–79, the longest run in the history of musical theatre up to that time.\n\nReece's first professionally produced effort was the libretto of an operetta, \"Castle Grim\", with music by G. Allen, produced at the Royalty Theatre in 1865. Among his subsequent contributions to the same stage were the burlesques \"Prometheus\" (1865), \"The Lady of the Lake\" (1866), and \"Whittington Junior and his Sensation Cat\" (1871, starring Fred Sullivan and Henrietta Hodson). He also wrote for the Royalty \"Dora's Device\", a comedietta (1871), \"Little Robin Hood\", a burlesque (1871), revived at the Gaiety Theatre (1882), and \"Paquita, or Love in a Trance\", a comic opera with music by J. A. Mallandine (1871).\n\nAt the Queen's Theatre, he produced \"The Stranger, stranger than Ever,\" a burlesque (1868). Another burlesque the same year at the Prince of Wales's Theatre was \"Agamemnon and Cassandra\"\n\nHe wrote many other burlesques for the Globe Theatre, the Olympic Theatre (including \"Richelieu\" in 1873 and \"Clockwork\" in 1877), the Vaudeville Theatre (including \"Green Old Age\", with music by Frederic Clay, in 1874; and a burlesque, \"Ruy Blas Righted\"), the Strand Theatre, and the Gaiety. At the Gaiety, he produced fourteen pieces between 1872 and 1884, among them the pantomimes \"Ali Baba\" (1872), \"Don Giovanni in Venice\" (1873), \"The Forty Thieves,\" (written with F. C. Burnand, H. J. Byron and W. S. Gilbert) (1878) and another version of the same story, with music by Meyer Lutz in 1880; and the burlesques \"Aladdin,\" (1881); \"Little Robin Hood,\" (1882); and \"Valentine and Orson,\" (1882).\n\nHe collaborated with Henry Brougham Farnie on 15 libretti or adaptations and occasionally joined with other dramatic writers. With Farnie, for the Folly Theatre in London, he wrote \"Up the River, or the Strict Kew-Tea\" (1877); \"Stars and Garters\" (1878); his biggest success, \"Les cloches de Corneville\" (1878); and \"The Creole\". For the Comedy Theatre, he wrote \"Boccaccio\", with music by Franz von Suppé (1882). He also wrote the successful burlesque, \"Carmen; or Sold for a Song\" (1879) for the Folly Theatre. \"The Highest Bidder\" played in New York in 1887, starring E. H. Sothern.\n\nIn 1875, he wrote \"Cattarina\", a comic opera with music by Frederic Clay, produced at the Charing Cross Theatre, and in 1879 he wrote the comic opera \"La Petite Mademoiselle\", together with Henry Sambrooke Leigh, for the Alhambra Theatre. Also for the Alhambra, in 1881 he wrote an English-language adaptation of \"Jeanne, Jeannette and Jeanneton\", a grand opera by P. Lacome after an original libretto by Clairville & Delacour.\n\nDespite all of his successful work, Reece fell on hard times in the 1880s. He died in London at the age of 53 and was buried in Kensal Green Cemetery.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "219897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219897", "title": "Rosemary Brown (spiritualist)", "text": "Rosemary Brown (spiritualist)\n\nRosemary Isabel Brown (27 July 191616 November 2001) was an English composer, pianist and spirit medium who claimed that dead composers dictated new musical works to her. She created a small media sensation in the 1970s by presenting works purportedly dictated to her by Claude Debussy, Edvard Grieg, Franz Liszt, Franz Schubert, Frédéric Chopin, Igor Stravinsky, Johann Sebastian Bach, Johannes Brahms, Ludwig van Beethoven, Robert Schumann and Sergei Rachmaninoff.\n\nRosemary Isabel Dickeson was born in London in 1916. She claimed to have been only seven years old when she was first introduced to the world of dead musicians. She reported that a spirit with long white hair and a flowing black cassock appeared and told her he was a composer and would make her a famous musician one day. She did not know who he was until, about ten years later, she saw a picture of Franz Liszt. Many other members of Brown's family were allegedly psychic, including her parents and grandparents.\n\nShe worked for the Post Office from the age of 15. In 1948 she acquired a second-hand upright piano, and took some lessons for three years. In 1952 she married Charles Brown, a government scientist. They had a son and a daughter before her husband died in 1961.\n\nThen in 1964 Liszt supposedly renewed contact and Brown began transcribing original compositions she said were dictated to her by great musicians of the past. Brown transcribed pieces from Johannes Brahms, Johann Sebastian Bach, Sergei Rachmaninoff, Franz Schubert, Edvard Grieg, Claude Debussy, Frédéric Chopin, Robert Schumann, Ludwig van Beethoven, Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart and Liszt. These included a 40-page sonata she attributed to Schubert, a Fantaisie-Impromptu in three movements she attributed to Chopin, 12 songs she attributed to Schubert, and two sonatas and two symphonies she attributed to Beethoven.\n\nBrown claimed that each composer had his own way of dictating to her: Liszt controlled her hands for a few bars at a time, and then she wrote down the notes; Chopin told her the notes and pushed her hands on to the right keys; Schubert tried to sing his compositions; and Beethoven and Bach simply dictated the notes. She claimed the composers spoke to her in English.\n\nBrown's irrational claims about spirit communication were disputed by skeptics.\n\nAfter studying her compositions, musicologists and psychologists came to the conclusion they were the work of Brown's own subconscious. Leonard Zusne and Warren H. Jones in their book \"Anomalistic Psychology: A Study of Magical Thinking\" (1989) noted that \"Brown wrote hundreds of pieces of music dictated by the various composers. They were passable works, entirely in the style of these composers, but appeared to be simply reworkings of existing pieces.\"\n\nProfessor of psychology John Sloboda wrote that Brown's music offers \"the most convincing case of unconscious composition on a large scale.\"\n\nPsychologist Robert Kastenbaum analysed Brown's music compositions and came to doubt that they were dictated to Brown by spirits of well known composers. According to Kastenbaum:\n\nKastenbaum suggested the composers were secondary personalities of Brown herself.\n\nBrown maintained that she had never had any musical training aside from a few piano lessons, though paranormal investigator Harry Edwards says:\n\nAccording to the psychologist Andrew Neher:\n\nMusicologist Denis Matthews described her music as \"charming pastiches\" and suggested she was re-creating compositions. Similarly Alan Rich, music critic of \"New York\" magazine, having heard a privately issued record of Brown's piano pieces, concluded that they were just sub-standard re-workings of some of their purported composers' better-known compositions.\n\nConcert pianists Peter Katin, Philip Gammon, Howard Shelley, Cristina Ortiz and John Lill have all performed her music.\n\nRosemary Brown published three books:\n\n"}
{"id": "15720162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15720162", "title": "Royal Band of Castile", "text": "Royal Band of Castile\n\nThe Royal Band of Castile (\"Banda Real de Castilla\") was the heraldic flag of the monarchs of the Crown of Castile, a personal banner of military use, distinctive indicating to the troops the presence of the monarch and allowed them to have identified his position in the battles. This insignia, who joined in the symbolism of the king of Castile to heraldic flag with the Castile and Leonese arms, was created in 1332 by the king Alfonso XI of Castile, although its origin probably would go back to one of the primitive symbols of the Counts of Castile, which had consisted of a gold bend on gules (red). The dragantes appeared on the handpiece or baton when Scipio brought the Roman legions to Hispania.\n\nAlfonso XI founded the Order of the Royal Band of Castile to reward the best services to the sovereign.\n\nThe Band of Castile was used by all the monarchs that had Castile until Charles V, Holy Roman Empire. It consisted, from the reign of Henry IV of Castile, on a reddish flag, probably purple scarlet, with a golden bend of throaty dragantes heads of the same color.\n\nThe dragantes are the heraldic representation of dragons.\n\nPrior to the reign of Henry IV, the colors were something changing and have been preserved representations of the Royal Band of Castile in the reign of Peter of Castile with dragantes of white and black color band.\n\nThe Band of Castile description from Henry I reign was: \"Gules, a bend or engouled into dragantes\" (dragon or wolf's heads). Before, the bend and the dragon's heads were different colours.\n\nThe Castilian Band origin was the old Count of Castile's coat of arms \"Gules a bend Or\" -, after \"Gules, a three towered castle Or\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51228894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51228894", "title": "Samuel Breeze", "text": "Samuel Breeze\n\nSamuel Breeze (1772–1812) was a Welsh Baptist minister. He grew up in the Llandinam area. He began his career as schoolmaster of Dolau School, Radnorshire, but left in 1794 to take charge of Penrhyncoch School, near Aberystwyth.\n\nIn 1795 he also began to preach. He was ordained a Baptist minister on 12 June 1803, serving as one of two ministers in the Aberystwyth district for a number of years, before relocating to Newcastle Emlyn in March 1812.\n\nHe died in 1812, and was buried at Cilfowyr, Pembrokeshire. \n"}
{"id": "49121701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49121701", "title": "Simon Atallah", "text": "Simon Atallah\n\nSimon Atallah, OAM (born on 10 January 1937 in Hemayri, Lebanon) is a Lebanese Maronite emeritus eparch of the Maronite Catholic Eparchy of Baalbek-Deir El Ahmar.\n\nSimon Atallah joined the OAM and received on 8 December 1963 his ordination to the priesthood. The Medal Chapter elected him in 1999 Superior general of his order. The Synod of the Maronite Church elected him on 24 September 2005 eparch of Baalbek-Deir El Ahmar. Pope Benedict XVI confirmed this election on 28 December 2005.\n\nHis episcopal ordination was by the hands of the Maronite Patriarch of Antioch, Cardinal Nasrallah Boutros Sfeir, on February 11, 2006 and his co-consecrators were Roland Aboujaoudé, auxiliary bishop of Antioch, and Tanios El Khoury, emeritus bishop of Sidon.\n\nAtallah exercised his office till March 14, 2015. The decision from 10 to 14 March 2015 of the Maronite Church's Synod convened to elect Hanna Rahme, OLM, as his successor. Pope Francis agreed with this election on 20 June 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "415897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=415897", "title": "Walter P. Lane", "text": "Walter P. Lane\n\nWalter Paye Lane (February 18, 1817 – January 28, 1892) was a Confederate general during the American Civil War who also served in the armies of the Republic of Texas and the United States of America.\n\nLane was born in County Cork, Ireland. The Lane family emigrated to Fairview in Guernsey County, Ohio, in 1821, and moved to Kentucky in 1825. In 1836 Lane moved to Texas to participate in its war for independence against Mexico. After Texas had gained its independence, Lane lived in San Augustine County in East Texas and then San Antonio, where he briefly served as a Texas Ranger. In 1846 Lane joined the First Regiment, Texas Mounted Riflemen, as a first lieutenant to fight in the Mexican–American War. Lane fought with honors at the Battle of Monterey and was later given the rank of major and command of his own battalion. After the Mexican–American War, Lane wandered about doing various things in Arizona, California, and Peru before opening a mercantile business in Marshall, Texas, in 1858.\n\nWhen the Civil War broke out, Lane was among the first Texans to call for secession. Lane's military reputation was so great that the first volunteer Confederate company raised in Harrison County was named for him, though Lane would join the 3rd Texas Cavalry. Lane participated in the battles of Wilson's Creek, Missouri, Chustenahlah, Pea Ridge and both the Siege of Corinth and Second Battle of Corinth. Lane led the 3rd Texas at the battle of Franklin, Mississippi, and was commended by General P.G.T. Beauregard for his efforts. Lane was severely wounded in the Battle of Mansfield in 1864, where Confederates forces rebuffed a push to capture either or both Shreveport, Louisiana, or Marshall, Texas. Before the war ended, Lane was promoted to the rank of brigadier general in 1865, being confirmed on the last day the Confederate Congress met.\n\nAfter the Civil War Lane returned to Marshall where he helped to establish the Texas Veterans Association. After Reconstruction, Lane and his brother George, a local judge, founded the first White Citizens Party in Texas and ran Republicans and African-Americans out of Marshall. With Democratic white hegemony brutally reestablished in Marshall and Harrison County, Lane declared the city and county \"redeemed\". He died in Marshall, Texas, and is buried in the Marshall Cemetery near downtown Marshall. His memoirs, \"The Adventures and Recollections of General Walter P. Lane\", were published posthumously in 1928.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "200953", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=200953", "title": "Woody Woodpecker", "text": "Woody Woodpecker\n\nWoody Woodpecker is an anthropomorphic animated woodpecker who appeared in theatrical short films produced by the Walter Lantz Studio and distributed by Universal Pictures during the golden age of American animation.\n\nWoody was created in 1940 by Lantz and storyboard artist Ben \"Bugs\" Hardaway, who had previously laid the groundwork for two other screwball characters, Bugs Bunny and Daffy Duck, at the Warner Bros. cartoon studio in the late 1930s. Woody's character and design evolved over the years, from an insane bird with an unusually garish design to a more refined looking and acting character in the vein of the later Chuck Jones version of Bugs Bunny. Woody was originally voiced by prolific voice actor Mel Blanc, who was succeeded by Danny Webb, Kent Rogers, Ben Hardaway and finally by Grace Stafford, wife of Walter Lantz.\n\nLantz produced theatrical cartoons longer than most of his contemporaries, and Woody Woodpecker remained a staple of Universal's release schedule until 1972, when Lantz finally closed down his studio. The character has been revived since then for special productions and occasions as well as for \"The New Woody Woodpecker Show\", a late 1990s/early 2000s Fox Network Saturday-morning cartoon television series that featured prolific voice actor Billy West as Woody.\n\n\"Woody Woodpecker\" cartoons were first broadcast on television in 1957 under the title \"The Woody Woodpecker Show\", which featured Lantz cartoons bookended by new footage of Woody and live-action footage of Lantz. Woody has a motion picture star on the Hollywood Walk of Fame on 7000 Hollywood Boulevard. He also made a cameo appearance alongside many other famous cartoon characters in the 1988 film \"Who Framed Roger Rabbit\".\n\nWoody Woodpecker and friends are also icons at the Universal Studios Theme Parks worldwide, as well as the PortAventura Park in the PortAventura World, Salou, Spain (they were originally brought to the park by Universal Studios, and remain there today despite Universal no longer having a financial stake in the park). Woody Woodpecker's latest appearance was in a self-titled Live-Action/CGI hybrid film, which was theatrically released in Brazil on October 5, 2017 and was panned by critics. The film was later distributed on DVD in the United States on February 6, 2018 and is currently streaming on Netflix.\n\nAccording to Walter Lantz's press agent, the idea for Woody came during the producer's honeymoon with his wife, Gracie, in Lake Sherwood, California. A noisy acorn woodpecker outside their cabin kept the couple awake at night, and when a heavy rain started, they learned that the bird had bored holes in their cabin's roof. As both Walter and Gracie told Dallas attorney Rod Phelps during a visit, Walter wanted to shoot the bird, but Gracie suggested that her husband make a cartoon about the bird, and thus Woody was born. Woody shares many characteristics in common with the pileated woodpecker in terms of both physical appearance as well as his characteristic laugh, which resembles the call of the pileated woodpecker. These similarities are apparently the result of the artistic license of the creators, and have caused much confusion within the birding community amongst those who have attempted to classify Woody's species.\n\nWoody Woodpecker first appeared in the short \"Knock Knock\" on November 25, 1940. The cartoon ostensibly stars Andy Panda and his father, Papa Panda, but it is Woody who dominates. The woodpecker constantly pesters the two pandas, apparently just for the fun of it. Andy, meanwhile, tries to sprinkle salt on Woody's tail in the belief that this will somehow capture the bird. To Woody's surprise, Andy's attempts prevail, and Woody is taken away to the psychiatric hospital— but not before his captors prove to be crazier than he is.\n\nThe Woody of \"Knock Knock\" was designed by animator Alex Lovy. Woody's original voice actor, Mel Blanc, stopped performing the character after the first two cartoons to work exclusively for Leon Schlesinger Productions (Later renamed Warner Bros. Cartoons), producer of Warner Bros.' \"Looney Tunes\" and \"Merrie Melodies\". At Leon Schlesinger's, Blanc had already established the voices of two other famous \"screwball\" characters who preceded Woody, Daffy Duck and Bugs Bunny. Ironically, Blanc's characterization of the Woody Woodpecker laugh had originally been applied to Happy Rabbit, a Bugs Bunny predecessor (which was Bugs Bunny originally, but different) in shorts such as the aforementioned \"Elmer's Candid Camera\" and was later transferred to Woody. Blanc's regular speaking voice for Woody was much like the early Daffy Duck, minus the lisp. Once Warner Bros. signed Blanc to an exclusive contract, Woody's voice-over work was taken over by Danny Webb, followed by Kent Rogers. Ben Hardaway later became Woody's voice after Rogers was killed in a plane crash during World War II, and would voice the woodpecker for the rest of the decade. Despite this, Blanc continued to voice Woody on a Mutual Network radio show and in recordings for Capitol Records from 1948 until 1955, while his laugh would continue to be used in the shorts until 1951.\n\nAudiences reacted well to \"Knock Knock\", and Lantz realized he had finally hit upon a star to replace the waning Oswald the Lucky Rabbit. Woody starred in a number of films. With his innate chutzpah and brash demeanor, the character was a natural hit during World War II. His image appeared on US aircraft as nose art, and on mess halls, and audiences on the homefront watched Woody cope with familiar problems such as food shortages. The 1943 Woody cartoon \"The Dizzy Acrobat\" was nominated for the 1944 Academy Award for Best Short Subject (Cartoons), which it lost to the MGM \"Tom and Jerry\" cartoon \"The Yankee Doodle Mouse\". Woody Woodpecker's debut also marked a change in directing style for Walter Lantz studio, since the character was heavily inspired by Tex Avery-created Looney Tunes character Daffy Duck at Warner Bros, and thus Woody's cartoons tended to have a hint of Tex Avery's style and influence in terms of humor, and that's what gave Walter Lantz studio its fame. Curiously enough, Avery himself never directed a Woody Woodpecker short while at the Walter Lantz studio.\nAnimator Emery Hawkins and layout artist Art Heinemann streamlined Woody's appearance for the 1944 film \"The Barber of Seville\", directed by Shamus Culhane. The bird became rounder, cuter, and less demented. He also sported a simplified color scheme and a brighter smile, making him much more like his counterparts at Warner Bros. and MGM. Nevertheless, Culhane continued to use Woody as an aggressive lunatic, not a domesticated straight man or defensive homebody, as many other studios' characters had become. The follow-up to \"The Barber of Seville\", \"The Beach Nut\", introduced Woody's original chief nemesis, Wally Walrus.\n\nWoody's wild days were numbered, however. In 1946, Lantz hired Disney veteran Dick Lundy to direct Woody's cartoons. Lundy rejected Culhane's take on the series and made Woody more defensive; no longer did the bird go insane without a legitimate reason. Lundy also paid more attention to the animation, making Woody's new films more Disney-esque in their design, style, animation, and timing. Lundy's last film for Disney was the Donald Duck short \"Flying Jalopy\". This cartoon is played much like a Woody Woodpecker short, down to the laugh in the end. It also features a bad guy named \"Ben Buzzard\" who bears a strong resemblance to Buzz Buzzard, a Lantz character introduced in \"Wet Blanket Policy\" (1948), who eventually succeeded Wally Walrus as Woody's primary antagonist.\n\nIn 1947, contract renewal negotiations between Lantz and Universal (now Universal-International) fell through, and Lantz began distributing his cartoons through United Artists. The UA-distributed Lantz cartoons featured higher-quality animation, the influence of Dick Lundy (the films' budgets remained the same). Former Disney animators such as Fred Moore and Ed Love began working at Lantz, and assisted Lundy in adding touches of the Disney style to Woody's cartoons. Despite the Disney style added for the later cartoons, Woody's cartoons still try to maintain a good dose of slapstick and madcap humor from the pre-Lundy cartoons.\n\nIn 1947, Woody got his own theme song when musicians George Tibbles and Ramey Idriss wrote \"The Woody Woodpecker Song\", making ample use of the character's famous laugh. Kay Kyser's 1948 recording of the song, with Harry Babbitt's laugh interrupting vocalist Gloria Wood, became one of the biggest hit singles of 1948. Other artists did covers, including Woody's original voice actor, Mel Blanc. Lantz first used \"The Woody Woodpecker Song\" in \"Wet Blanket Policy\" (1948), and it became the first and only song from an animated short subject to be nominated for the Academy Award for Best Original Song in 1948 but it lost out to “Buttons and Bows”. Lantz soon adopted the song as Woody's theme music, and due to the song's popularity, Woody Woodpecker fan clubs sprang up, theaters held \"Woody\" matinées, and boys got the \"Woody Woodpecker\" haircut.\n\n\"The Woody Woodpecker Song\" and the \"Woody Woodpecker\" cartoons made extensive use of Woody's famous laugh, upsetting the man who created it, Mel Blanc. (He first used the laugh, in a different recording, for the seminal pre-Bugs Bunny character in 1938's \"Porky's Hare Hunt\".) Although Blanc had only recorded three shorts as the voice of Woody, his laugh had been recorded as a stock sound effect and used in every subsequent \"Woody Woodpecker\" short up until this point. Blanc sued Lantz and lost, but Lantz settled out of court when Blanc filed an appeal. Although Lantz stopped using Blanc's Woody Woodpecker laugh as a stock effect in the early 1950s, Blanc's voice was still heard saying \"Guess who?\" at the beginning of every cartoon for the duration of the \"Woody Woodpecker\" series.\n\nFinancial problems at United Artists during the aftermath of the Paramount case affected Lantz. By the end of 1948, Lantz had shut down his studio; he reopened it in 1950 with a downsized staff.\n\nBeginning with the 1950 feature film \"Destination Moon\", which featured a segment of Woody explaining rocket propulsion, Woody's voice was assumed by Lantz's wife, Grace Stafford. According to the Lantzes, Stafford slipped a recording of herself into a stack of audition tapes, and her husband chose her without knowing her identity. Lantz also began having Stafford supply Woody's laugh, possibly due to the court case with Mel Blanc. Stafford was not credited at her own request until \"Misguided Missile\" (1958), as she felt audiences might reject a woman performing Woody's voice. Stafford also did her best to tone down the character through her voice work, to appease Universal's complaints about Woody's raucousness.\n\nLantz signed again with Universal (now Universal-International) in 1950, and began production on two entries that director Dick Lundy and storymen Ben Hardaway and Heck Allen had begun before the 1948 layoff. These shorts have no director's credit, as Lantz claimed to have directed them himself. \"Puny Express\" (1951) was the first to be released, followed by \"Sleep Happy\". These shorts marked a departure from past dialogue-driven shorts. Though Stafford now voiced Woody, her job was limited, as Woody (and other characters) rarely spoke in the first dozen or so shorts. It was because of these entries that Woody became popular outside the English-speaking world, thanks to the lack of a language barrier. (\"The Pink Panther\" shorts of the 1960s and 1970s also enjoyed worldwide popularity due to this pantomime luxury.)\n\nNine more Lantz-directed Woody cartoons followed, before Don Patterson became Woody's new director in 1953. The bird was redesigned again, this time by animator LaVerne Harding. Harding made Woody smaller, cuter, and moved his crest forward from its original backwards position. (The small Lantz Studios logo seen at the start of every cartoon — Woody as an armored knight on horseback carrying a lance — continued for a while to display Woody with his former topknot.) For 1955's \"The Tree Medic\", one last makeover was given to the woodpecker, making Woody's eye a simple black dot and taking away the green/hazel iris he'd had since his beginnings. However, Woody's eyes were not changed in the cartoon's intros, and they remained green for the rest of the shorts' production run. During this time, the intro was changed as well. Instead of having Woody's name on screen and Woody pecking a hole in the screen to introduce himself, Woody pecked his way onto the screen, say \"Guess who?\", peck his name on either a brown or gray wood background, and flip and flop around the screen, laughing.\n\nBy 1955, Paul J. Smith had taken over as primary director of Woody's shorts, with periodic fill-in shorts directed by Alex Lovy and Jack Hannah, among others. With Smith on board, the shorts maintained a healthy dose of frenetic energy, while the animation itself was simplified, due to budget constraints.\nIn addition to Lantz's wife Grace Stafford providing Woody's voice, which returned the cartoon to being more dialogue-driven again, voice talents during this period were generally split between Dal McKennon and Daws Butler. Several of Woody's recurring costars were also introduced during this era, such as Gabby Gator (voiced by Daws Butler in an Ozarks voice, a slightly different southern dialect than he used for Huckleberry Hound). Gabby first appeared in \"Everglade Raid\" (as \"Al I. Gator\"). Other films paired Woody with a girlfriend, Winnie Woodpecker (voiced by Grace Stafford), and a niece and nephew, Splinter and Knothead (both voiced by June Foray). Other antagonists that Woody has dealt with were Ms. Meany (voiced by Grace Stafford) and Dapper Denver Dooley (voiced by Dallas McKennon).\n\nAs Lantz was struggling financially, Woody's longevity was secured when he made the jump to television in \"The Woody Woodpecker Show\" on ABC. The half-hour program consisted of three theatrical Woody shorts followed by a brief look at cartoon creation hosted by Lantz. It ran from 1957 to 1958 then entered syndication until 1966. NBC revived the show in 1970 and 1976. In addition, the woodpecker was no longer dishing out abuse to his foils, but was instead on the receiving end. The first significant short to feature Woody as a serious, put-upon character was 1961's \"Franken-Stymied\". Woody's popularity had been based on his manic craziness, but by 1961, this had all but been eliminated in favor of a more serious Woody, a straight man trying to do good. This was due in part to Woody's large presence on television, which meant Lantz had to meet the stringent rules against violence for children's television. Though production continued until 1972, the cartoons were a definite notch lower than in the 1940s and 1950s.\n\nWoody appeared in new theatrical shorts until 1972, when Lantz closed his studio due to rising production costs. His cartoons returned to syndication in the late 1970s. Lantz sold his library of Woody shorts to MCA/Universal in 1985. Universal repackaged the cartoons for another syndicated \"Woody Woodpecker Show\" in 1987. A year later, Woody cameoed in \"Who Framed Roger Rabbit\", voiced by Cherry Davis, near the end of the film.\n\nWoody Woodpecker reappeared in the Fox Kids series \"The New Woody Woodpecker Show\", which ran on Saturday mornings from 1999 to 2002, voiced by Billy West. For this series, Woody was redesigned more like his mid-1940s look (1944 to 1949), pushing back his crest and making his eyes green again. Winnie Woodpecker, who had debuted in \"Real Gone Woody\" (1954), became a semi-regular character as Woody's primary love interest. Like Woody, Winnie was redesigned to look almost exactly like Woody did from 1950 until 1972, the obvious differences being that she was a female woodpecker and had blue eyes. Woody's primary antagonist was Wally Walrus, who became Woody's neighbor (Woody lived in a tree house in Mrs. Meany's front yard, and Mrs. Meany's house was next door). Buzz Buzzard often appeared, as did Mrs. Meany and several other older characters.\n\nWoody and Winnie both appear as costumed characters at PortAventura Park, Universal Orlando, Universal Studios Japan, Universal Studios Hollywood and Universal Studios Singapore.\n\nThe \"Woody Woodpecker Show\" was named the 88th best animated series by IGN.\n\nWalter Lantz and movie pioneer George Pal were good friends. Woody Woodpecker cameos in nearly every film that Pal produced or directed—for example, during the 1966 sequence in \"The Time Machine\" (1960), a little girl drops her Woody Woodpecker doll as she goes into an air raid shelter. In \"\" (1975), Grace Stafford cameos, carrying a Woody Woodpecker doll.\n\nWoody was number 46 on \"TV Guide\"'s list of the 50 Greatest Cartoon Characters of All Time in 2002 and 2003. He came in at number 25 on Animal Planet's list of \"The 50 Greatest Movie Animals\" in 2004. The character has been referenced and spoofed on many later television programs, among them \"The Simpsons\", \"American Dad!\", \"South Park\", \"The Fairly OddParents\", \"Family Guy\", \"Seinfeld\", \"Robot Chicken\", \"Three's Company\", and Flash Toons.\n\nWoody Woodpecker is the mascot for the Universal Studios Theme Parks. In 1998 and 1999, Woody appeared on the nose of the Williams Formula One Team, and in 2000, he became the official team mascot of the Honda Motorcycle Racing Team. A Woody Woodpecker balloon had been a staple of the Macy's Thanksgiving Day Parade from 1982 until 1996.\n\nIn Brazil the character is hugely popular and iconic cartoon character in the country.\n\nA handful of non-comprehensive Woody Woodpecker VHS tapes were issued by Universal in the 1980s and 1990s, usually including Andy Panda and Chilly Willy cartoons as bonuses. A few were widely released on VHS in the mid-1980s by Kid Pics Video, an American company of dubious legality, which packaged the Woody cartoons with bootlegged Disney cartoons. In the early 2000s, a series of mail-order \"Woody Woodpecker Show\" VHS tapes and DVDs were made available by mail order through Columbia House.\n\nIn 2007, Universal Studios Home Entertainment released \"The Woody Woodpecker and Friends Classic Cartoon Collection\", a three-disc DVD boxed set compilation of Walter Lantz \"Cartunes\". The first forty-five Woody Woodpecker shorts—from \"Knock Knock\" to \"The Great Who-Dood-It\"—were presented on the box set in chronological order of release, with various \"Chilly Willy\", \"Andy Panda\", \"Swing Symphonies\", and other Lantz shorts also included. \"The Woody Woodpecker and Friends Classic Cartoon Collection: Volume 2\", including the next forty-five Woody cartoons—\"Termites from Mars\" through \"Jittery Jester\"—was released in 2008. A plain-vanilla best-of release, titled \"Woody Woodpecker Favorites\", was released in 2009, which contained no new-to-DVD material. Plans for further releases, as well as a region-1 DVD release of \"The New Woody Woodpecker Show\", are currently on hold for unknown reasons, although the 1999 series has received VHS and DVD releases outside of North America and is available for viewing on Hulu.\n\nApart from authorized releases, the Woody Woodpecker cartoon most widely available on legal home video is the public domain \"Pantry Panic.\"\n\n\nBlanc originated the voice, in a characterization similar to his Daffy Duck, minus the lisp, with the recording slightly sped up to give a higher-pitched tone to the voice. He stated that the laugh originated from a type of laugh he used to do at school and he just added the pecking sounds to the laugh. That practice continued with other voice artists.\n\nWoody Woodpecker is a film series, short films and cartoons created by the designer and animator Walter Lantz (1899–1994).\n\n\n\n\nIn the early 2010s, Universal Studios and Illumination Entertainment planned a \"Woody Woodpecker\" feature film. John Altschuler and Dave Krinsky (\"King of the Hill\") were in talks to develop a story, but the project was canceled. In October 2013, Bill Kopp announced that Universal Pictures had hired him to direct an animated feature film with three interwoven stories.\n\nOn July 13, 2016, Cartoon Brew reported that Universal 1440 Entertainment was filming a live-action/CGI hybrid film based on \"Woody Woodpecker\" in Canada. The film is being directed by Alex Zamm and stars Timothy Omundson of \"Galavant\" and \"Psych\" fame and Brazilian actress Thaila Ayala. Filming began in June 2016, and ended later in July of that year. The film was released theatrically in Brazil on October 5, 2017 and was scheduled for release on April 1, 2018 worldwide.\nThe film had a straight-to-video release in the United States on February 6, 2018.\nOn November 22, 2018, Deadline.com reported that Universal 1440 Entertainment produced a new 2D animated series based on the franchise, which will debut in December 2018 on its official YouTube channel.\n\nSeveral Woody Woodpecker video games were released for Mega Drive/Genesis, PlayStation, PlayStation 2, PC, Game Boy Color, Game Boy Advance, and iOS (iPad and iPhone and NES).\n\nMattel purchased the rights for a Woody Woodpecker Intellivision game, and Grace Stafford recorded new dialog for the game, but it was not completed.\n\nMaruhon has released a series of pachinko games in Japan.\n\n\n"}
