{"id": "49674931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49674931", "title": "2016 Virginia Scholastic and College Champions", "text": "2016 Virginia Scholastic and College Champions\n\nThe 2016 Virginia Scholastic and College Championships was a Chess Tournament held March 4–6, 2016, in Ashburn, Virginia. The categories included K-3, K-5, K-8, K-12 and College groups.\n\nNearly 100 students from elementary, middle and high schools across the state competed in the tournament at West Virginia State University. Winners go on to compete in national tournaments later in the year.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56675531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56675531", "title": "2021 World Junior and U23 Canoe Slalom Championships", "text": "2021 World Junior and U23 Canoe Slalom Championships\n\nThe 2021 ICF World Junior and U23 Canoe Slalom Championships will take place in Auckland, New Zealand under the auspices of the International Canoe Federation (ICF). It will be the 23rd edition of the competition for Juniors (U18) and the 10th edition for the Under 23 category. It will be the first global canoe slalom championships in New Zealand.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15177157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15177157", "title": "Acklam Park", "text": "Acklam Park\n\nAcklam Park is a rugby union and cricket ground located in Middlesbrough, North Yorkshire, England. Initially opened in 1929, the venue has hosted games of Middlesbrough RUFC since the ground's opening as well as Middlesbrough Cricket Club since 1932. Yorkshire County Cricket Club have also played a number of first class matches at Acklam Park over the years from 1956 to 1996.\n\nWith a capacity of 5,000, the ground initially cost the rugby club £1,200.\n\nMiddlesbrough RUFC purchased a 12-acre field in 1928 for a fee of £1,200. The club paid 13 shillings, club members paid £500 and £800 was loaned from the Rugby Football Union. Middlesbrough played their first games on their present ground in 1929 having played at several previous venues. Due to the cost of the ground, the club officials began selling oats and wheat from the field in order to pay off their loan from the RFU. The name Acklam Park was adopted in 1930, and the following year a stand and pavilion were built, funded as a result of 12 interest-free loans of £100 each from local businessmen, the majority of whom refused to take repayment of their loan.\n\nIn 1932, Middlesbrough CC became joint-owners of Acklam Park. With play halted during World War II, the ground close in 1940, before being re-opened in 1945.\n\nIn 2008, a new clubhouse was opened at Acklam Park, which includes a bar, a café, a gym, a function room and lounge. Changing and shower rooms were also inserted, which leads out to an exit to the main cricket and rugby pitches. Seats are placed in front of the changing rooms exit and café door exit facing a clear view of the cricket pitch and a view of one of two rugby pitches on the left-hand side. Despite seats, supporters are eligible to stand and watch the rugby team play. There is also a stand facing the first team pitch, with the stand featuring the name \"Middlesbrough Rugby Club\". The stand uses bench seating rather than plastic seating.\n\nIn 2017, it was announced that the club aimed to have plastic seats added into their stand. In August 2018, the club added dug-outs to the first team pitch.\n\nThe ground sits on Green Lane Avenue, and is located near Acklam Hall. The ground is located near Acklam Shops, and there is a range of pubs near ground, in which the away supporters can have other hospitality. Next door to the ground, there is a care home.\n\nAnnually, a summer beer festival is held at the ground, which has raised much money over the years. They also host an annual firework display.\n\nOn 27 August 2017, the ground hosted a fundraiser event, \"Party in Acklam Park!\", with live music and entertainment. The purpose of this event was to raise more money for the club, for new developments in the youth teams.\n\n"}
{"id": "4319321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4319321", "title": "Bahamas at the 1958 British Empire and Commonwealth Games", "text": "Bahamas at the 1958 British Empire and Commonwealth Games\n\nThe Bahamas was represented at the 1958 British Empire and Commonwealth Games in Cardiff by one competitor, Tom Robinson, who won gold in the 200 yards dash and silver in the 100 yards dash.\n"}
{"id": "1658814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1658814", "title": "Barclays Center", "text": "Barclays Center\n\nBarclays Center is a multi-purpose indoor arena in the New York City borough of Brooklyn. The arena is part of a $4.9 billion future business and residential complex now known as Pacific Park. The site is at Atlantic Avenue, next to the renamed Atlantic Avenue–Barclays Center subway station on the , as well as directly above the LIRR's Atlantic Terminal.\n\nThe arena is home to the Brooklyn Nets of the National Basketball Association, and is also one of the home arenas for the New York Islanders of the National Hockey League (the other is Nassau Veterans Memorial Coliseum). The arena also hosts concerts, conventions and other sporting and entertainment events. It competes with other facilities in the New York metropolitan area, including Madison Square Garden in Manhattan and Prudential Center in Newark.\n\nThe arena, proposed in 2004 when real estate developer Bruce Ratner purchased the Nets for $300 million as the first step of the process to build a new home for the team, experienced significant hurdles during its development. Its use of eminent domain and its potential environmental impact brought community resistance, especially as residential buildings and businesses such as the Ward Bakery were to be demolished and large amounts of public subsidies were used, which led to multiple lawsuits. The global recession of 2009 also caused financing for the project to dry up. As a result, construction was delayed until 2010, with no secure funding for the project having been allotted. Groundbreaking for construction occurred on March 11, 2010, and the arena opened on September 21, 2012, which was also attended by some 200 protesters. It held its first event with a Jay-Z concert on September 28, 2012. The arena and the Brooklyn Nets are owned by Mikhail Prokhorov's American holdings.\n\nThe arena was conceived by Bruce Ratner of real estate developer Forest City Ratner Companies, the New York division of Forest City Enterprises that Ratner founded. He acquired the New Jersey Nets basketball team in 2004 for $300 million (he has since sold most of his shares to continue funding the project) for the purpose of moving them to the Pacific Park development on Brooklyn's Prospect Heights play in the arena that would be the centerpiece of the Pacific Park commercial and residential redevelopment project. The move had marked the return of major league sports to Brooklyn, which had been absent since the departure of the Dodgers to Los Angeles in 1957. Coincidentally, the original proposal for a domed stadium for the Brooklyn Dodgers was just north of the Pacific Park Brooklyn site, where the Atlantic Terminal Mall, also owned by Forest City Ratner Companies, is located.\nThe arena was initially projected to open in 2006, with the rest of the Pacific Park Brooklyn complex to follow. However, controversies involving local residents, the use of eminent domain, potential environmental impact, lack of continued public financing, as well as a major economic downturn delayed the project. Due to these legal and financial troubles, the development deal seemed headed towards failure or collapse. Frank Gehry, an architect involved in the project's initial designs said, in March 2009, \"I don't think it is going to happen,\" and Ratner at one point explored selling the team. The New York Supreme Court ruled in favor of Ratner on May 16, 2009. Opponents appealed the court decision. A hearing for the appeal was scheduled for October 14, 2009, with a decision to be issued no sooner than November 25.\n\nRussian businessman Mikhail Prokhorov agreed to a $200 million deal on September 23, 2009, to become a principal owner of the Nets and a key investor in the Brooklyn arena.\n\nThe Nets played two preseason games at Prudential Center in October 2009. The two preseason games were successful, and a deal that would have the Nets play at the Prudential Center for the 2010–11 and 2011–12 NBA seasons became more likely. Negotiations nearly fell apart, when the New Jersey Sports and Exhibition Authority refused to release the Nets from their lease at Izod. Negotiations resumed, and on February 18, 2010, the Nets finalized a deal that would move them to the Prudential Center in Newark, New Jersey until Barclays Center opened.\n\nThe New York Court of Appeals ruled in favor of the state using eminent domain for the project on November 24, 2009. Empire State Development Corporation Vice President Warner Johnston indicated that the agency is committed to seeing the project completed and said \"we can now move forward with development.\"\n\nAnother potential roadblock to this development resulted from the Appellate Court's negative decision regarding a similar eminent domain case, brought against Columbia University. This landmark case could have given new life to the case being brought by the community group Develop Don't Destroy Brooklyn (DDDB).\nHowever, on March 1, 2010, Brooklyn Supreme Court Justice Abraham Gerges struck down a challenge by property owners, regarding the state's use of eminent domain, which allowed the private property to be condemned. Groundbreaking for the project occurred on March 11, 2010.\n\nThe first concrete was poured into Barclays Center's foundation on June 29, 2010. The arena began vertical construction on November 23, 2010, with the erection of the first steel piece. The arena topped out on January 12, 2012, and was opened to the public on September 21, 2012.\n\nBarclays Bank agreed to a 20-year naming rights agreement for $400 million in 2007. However, 2 years later, due to the slump in the economy the deal was renegotiated to $200 million.\n\nThe New York Islanders of the National Hockey League (NHL) announced on October 24, 2012, that the franchise would move to Barclays Center in 2015 after the expiration of their lease at the Nassau Veterans Memorial Coliseum, which the team has called home since its inception in 1972. The deal did not require the involvement of the New York Rangers, as the Islanders' agreement with the Rangers to share the New York area allows them to play their home games anywhere on Long Island, including the two city boroughs on the island, Brooklyn and Queens. While Barclays Center was conceived as a multipurpose arena that could accommodate the Nets and an NHL team, it was built mainly for basketball. While it can accommodate an NHL-size rink, the scoreboard was off-centered above the blue line that is closer to the arena's southeast end. Capacity for hockey is 15,795, the second-smallest in the league (behind Winnipeg's MTS Centre). The seating arrangement for hockey is asymmetrical. There are only three rows of permanent seating on the northwest end of the arena, and at least 416 seats will not be sold at all due to poor sight lines. As a result of the signing of the lease, the two KHL games scheduled to be played in the arena on January 20 and 21, 2013 between Dynamo Moscow and SKA St. Petersburg were moved back to their teams' home venues. As part of the deal, the management of the Barclays Center took over the business operations of the Islanders when the team moved to Brooklyn, though Charles Wang remained principal owner and continued to oversee hockey operations. This arrangement continued after Wang sold controlling interest in the Islanders to Jon Ledecky and Scott D. Malkin.\n\nAccording to \"Billboard Magazine\", Barclays Center passed Madison Square Garden as the highest-grossing venue in the US for concerts and family shows, not counting sports events. That statistic was based on ticket sales between November 1, 2012, and May 31, 2013. On February 24, 2015, an ironworker was killed when four joists fell on him as he was helping to install the arena's green roof.\n\nPoor reception of the arena's quality as a hockey venue affected the Islanders' average attendance in comparison to Nassau Coliseum, which fell to an NHL low of 12,059 (the arena itself is also the second-smallest in the league). The team began to seek an exit from Barclays, although NHL officials judged that the Coliseum (even with its recent renovations) would not be suitable as a full-time venue, as it lacked amenities common in new facilities. On June 21, 2018, the Islanders announced that they would begin to play a portion of their home schedule at the Nassau Coliseum until the completion of their new Belmont Park Arena project.\n\nThe arena is formally owned by the Brooklyn Arena Local Development Corporation, a public entity. It is leased to private entity Brooklyn Events Center, LLC for $1.00. Being publicly owned, the financing of the stadium was eligible for tax-exempt bonds, which were issued in 2009 for a total of $510,999,996.50.\n\nBarclays Center was designed by the architect firm SHoP Architects. Ellerbe Becket/AECOM served as the project Architect of record.\n\nInitial concepts for the area were designed by Frank Gehry, whose design proposed a rooftop park (open only to residents of the Atlantic Yards complex) ringed by an open-air running track and capable of doubling as an ice skating rink in winter with panoramic, year-round views of Manhattan. The famed architect's tallest tower, called Miss Brooklyn at 620 feet, was also part of this plan. Gehry's plans carried a projected cost of $1 billion. Forest City Ratner unveiled a scaled back version of the project on February 2008 reducing Miss Brooklyn's size 40%, and making it 109 feet shorter. Another redesign unveiled just over two months later scrapped Miss Brooklyn entirely, and in January 2009, the developer started \"value engineering\" the arena design, cutting its budget even more. In September 2009 the Becket/SHoP proposal with a projected cost (initially) of $800 million (ultimately itself revised to $1 billion) was unveiled.\n\nExternally, the arena's shape features three articulated bands with features a glass curtain wall covered by a \"latticework\" composed of 12,000 preweathered steel panels engineered and constructed by ASI Limited/SHoP Construction meant to evoke the image of Brooklyn's brownstones. A oculus extends over a section of the plaza outside of the main arena entrance with an irregularly shaped display screen looping the interior face of the oculus. The arena floor's location below grade allows people in the plaza to view the scoreboard.\n\nInside the arena bowl, there are two sports lighting systems: one for the Nets and one for everyone else. The Nets lighting creates a theater-like effect where the court pops like a stage while the rest of the arena goes dark.\n\nUnlike most other urban venues in the US, Barclays Center has no dedicated parking lot; however, it is easily accessible by subway, bus, and railroad. To accommodate entry to the facility, the arena's entrance plaza features a $76 million transit connection hub that serves as the plaza's focal point. The transit structure connects with the refurbished Atlantic Avenue–Barclays Center subway station, whose renovation was designed by New York City firm Stantec.\n\nThe original plan promised indoor room for bicycles but the plan was scrapped before the arena's opening with outdoor racks for 400 bicycles, which were eventually taken away. The Empire State Development corporation also promised spots for 550 cars eventually, next to the arena.\n\nBecause of the constrained site, there are only two truck and bus entrances into the building. They consist of two side-by-side capacity elevators which lower vehicles below street grade into a loading dock area. Vehicles roll out onto an enormous turntable which rotates them into position opposite one of four loading docks arrayed around the turntable.\n\nThe building features the mural \"Diary of Brooklyn\" by painter José Parlá, which measures 10 feet wide and 70 feet tall. According to Parlá, the painting is all about language; the painting contains words and phrases such as \"immigration,\" \"Brooklyn is\" and \"Big Daddy Kane.\" The piece was commissioned in 2012 and took six months to complete.\n\nOn January 18, 2007, it was announced that the arena would be called Barclays Center, after London-based banking group Barclays. It was reported that the banking and financial services company agreed to pay the team $400 million over the next 20 years for the naming rights of their Brooklyn home, eclipsing the previous record for naming rights to an American indoor arena, set by Royal Philips Electronics in 1999, for $185 million over 20 years for Philips Arena in Atlanta. However, the rights were renegotiated by the end of 2009, and are somewhat more than $200 million. Barclays does not have any retail banks in the US nor does it have its own ATMs in the arena.\n\nBarclays Center is located next to Atlantic Terminal, which services the Long Island Rail Road's Atlantic Branch. Barclays Center is also accessible via the New York City Subway, via the , which stop at Atlantic Avenue–Barclays Center.\n\nMTA Regional Bus Operations service is provided by , and buses.\n\nThe first NBA basketball game played at the new arena was an NBA preseason game between the Nets and the Washington Wizards on October 15, 2012.\n\nThe first regular season NBA game at the Barclays Center took place on November 3, 2012, when the Nets beat the visiting Toronto Raptors 107–100. The originally scheduled season opener home game was supposed to take place on November 1 against now-cross town rivals the New York Knicks, in what was planned to be a historic event; however, the game was canceled by NYC Mayor Michael Bloomberg due to mass transportation outages and a shortage of available police caused by Hurricane Sandy.\n\nThe venue hosted the NBA Draft starting with the 2013 NBA draft on June 27, 2013 and will remain as the host for the 2017 NBA Draft. In addition to that, they have also hosted the 2015 NBA All-Star Weekend festivities on February 13–14, 2015.\n\nBarclays Center was also the home for the Long Island Nets of the NBA Development League during the 2016–17 season while the Nassau Veterans Memorial Coliseum was being renovated for the 2017–18 season.\n\nSince its opening, the center has hosted a number of college basketball events. Kentucky and Maryland signed multi-year agreements to play games at the arena after competing head-to-head in 2012. The arena hosts three early-season basketball tournaments: Barclays Center Classic, Coaches vs. Cancer Classic, and Legends Classic.\n\nThe Atlantic 10 Conference announced that Barclays Center will be the new home of the conference's men's basketball tournament beginning in 2013. The Atlantic Coast Conference has announced that the 2017 and 2018 ACC Men's Basketball Tournament will be hosted at the Barclays Center. This is a break of tradition from being hosted at the \"unofficial\" home of the tournament at the Greensboro Coliseum in Greensboro, North Carolina where it is usually held. As part of a three-way agreement with Barclays and the ACC, the A-10 will return its men's basketball championship to the Barclays Center in 2019, 2020 and 2021.\n\nIn 2016, Barclays Center hosted games in the NCAA Men's Division I Basketball Tournament for the first time. Notable moments at the Brooklyn site include a tip-in at the buzzer by Adam Woodbury to lift the Iowa Hawkeyes past Temple in overtime, and 14th-seeded Stephen F. Austin's upset win over West Virginia.\n\nThe Islanders played the first NHL hockey game at Barclays Center in a preseason game on September 21, 2013, losing to the New Jersey Devils 3–0 in front of a crowd of 14,689. The first goal in the arena's history was scored by Jacob Josefson of the New Jersey Devils. An Islanders game was scheduled for the previous preseason but was canceled due to the 2012–13 NHL lockout. The Islanders and Devils played again on September 26, 2014. This time, the Islanders defeated New Jersey 3–2 in a shootout. The first goal in Islanders Brooklyn history was scored in the first period on a power play (and a delayed penalty call) by defenseman Ryan Pulock.\n\nThe first regular season game was played on October 9, 2015 against the 2015 Stanley Cup champions the Chicago Blackhawks, who won the game 3–2 in overtime. This was the sixth NHL game at Barclays Center, following five total preseason contests (three in 2015), and one Islanders rookie scrimmage. The first NHL regular season goal scored in the Barclays Center was a shorthanded goal by Artem Anisimov for the Blackhawks in the first period, while John Tavares scored in the second period and was the first Islander to do so.\n\nThe first Stanley Cup playoffs game at Barclays Center was held on April 17, 2016, when the Islanders defeated the Florida Panthers 4–3 in game three of the first-round series between the two teams. Seven nights later, the arena hosted game 6 of the series, which turned out to be the longest home game in Islanders history. In that game, the Islanders were trailing 1–0 when Tavares scored the game-tying goal with 53.2 seconds left in regulation; he would score the series-clinching goal in double overtime to give the Islanders their first playoff series win since 1993.\n\nSeveral boxing matches have taken place in the arena, including Danny Garcia vs. Zab Judah, and Ruslan Provodnikov vs. Chris Algieri. The venue hosted UFC 208 on February 11, 2017 and it hosted UFC 223 on April 7, 2018.\n\nThe arena has also hosted many WWE wrestling events, including the PPV \"\" and several \"WWE Raw\" episodes (including its 25th anniversary episode in January 2018). In August 2015, Barclays Center hosted SummerSlam (which was originally announced for Izod Center before its closure), along with the night before and a post-SummerSlam \"Raw\" the next day, resulting in three consecutive nights of sellouts. On September 28, 2015, WWE announced that SummerSlam would continue to be hosted by Barclays Center in 2016 and 2017, adding a post-SummerSlam \"SmackDown Live\" broadcast to the events.\n\nIn addition to many concerts from a variety of musical acts, the center hosted the 2013 MTV Video Music Awards on August 25, 2013, bringing the show to a New York City borough other than Manhattan for the first time.\n\nIn May 2018, Blizzard Entertainment announced the Grand Finals for the inaugural season of the Overwatch League would be held at Barclays Center. The event was held on July 27–28, 2018.\n\nDuring its building, the center was the source of a number of controversies involving local residents, the use of eminent domain, potential environmental impact, lack of continued public financing, as well as a major economic downturn delayed the project. The New York Supreme Court ruled in favor of Ratner on May 16, 2009. Opponents appealed the court decision, and a hearing for the appeal was scheduled for October 14, 2009, with a decision to be issued no sooner than November 25.\n\nOn November 24, 2009, the New York Court of Appeals ruled in favor of the state using eminent domain for the project. Empire State Development Corporation Vice President Warner Johnston indicated that the agency is committed to seeing the project completed and said \"we can now move forward with development.\"\n\nBarclays Center has also been accused of mistreating luxury box holders who are African-American. Three employees of Ludwig's Pharmacy in Prospect Heights claimed in a lawsuit, filed in October 2013, that they were singled out for bad treatment at the arena just because they are black. They are suing for $4 million.\n\nA group of 120 part-time construction workers who work to convert the arena from concert hall to sports venue unsuccessfully tried to switch unions in February 2013. The pay for part-time work is structured differently than that of the same work at Madison Square Garden, and workers have complained about not being able to make a living on one-day-a-month work at $14/hour, and being barred from collecting unemployment.\n\nAs the arena was not originally designed with hockey in mind, the New York Islanders' move to Barclays Center has resulted in complaints over seats with obstructed views, and the arena's ice quality.\n\nSome seats were singled out for having poor and obstructed sightlines during hockey games. \"Business Insider\" has called sections 201 to 204 and 228 to 231, \"the worst seat in American professional sports\". In an interview with \"Sports Illustrated\", Barclays Center CEO Brett Yormark acknowledged the issue, but insisted nothing can be done: \"There's really nothing we're going to do from a capital improvement standpoint. You can watch the game on your mobile device. The game is on the scoreboard.\" There have also been complaints over the quality of the ice during hockey games. The stadium uses PVC piping instead of steel piping under the ice surface, making it much harder to maintain NHL standards and temperature.\n"}
{"id": "711720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=711720", "title": "Boundary (cricket)", "text": "Boundary (cricket)\n\nIn cricket a boundary is the edge or boundary of the playing field, or a scoring shot where the ball is hit to or beyond that point.\n\nThe boundary is the edge of the playing field, or the physical object marking the edge of the field, such as a rope or fence. In low-level matches, a series of plastic cones are often used. Since the early 2000s the boundaries at professional matches are often a series of padded cushions carrying sponsors' logos strung along a rope. If it is moved during play (such as by a fielder sliding into the rope) the boundary is considered to remain at the point where that object first stood.\n\nWhen the cricket ball is inside the boundary, it is live. When the ball is touching the boundary, grounded beyond the boundary, or being touched by a fielder who is himself either touching the boundary or grounded beyond it, it is dead and the batting side usually scores 4 or 6 runs for hitting the ball over the boundary. Because of this rule, fielders near the boundary attempting to intercept the ball while running or diving, often flick the ball back in to the field of play rather than pick it up directly, because their momentum could carry them beyond the rope while holding the ball. They then return to the field to pick the ball up and throw it back to the bowler.\n\nA law change in 2010 declared that a fielder could not jump from behind the boundary and, while airborne, parry the ball back on to the field.\n\nA boundary is the scoring of four or six runs from a single delivery with the ball reaching or crossing the boundary of the playing field. Occasionally there is an erroneous use of the term boundary as a synonym for a \"four\". For example, sometimes commentators say such as \"There were seven boundaries and three sixes in the innings.\" The correct terminology would be \"\"There were ten boundaries in the innings of which seven were fours and three were sixes\". \"\n\nFour runs are scored if the ball bounces before touching or going over the edge of the field and six runs if it does not bounce before passing over the boundary in the air. These events are known as a four or a six respectively. When this happens the runs are automatically added to the batsman's and his team's score and the ball becomes dead. If the ball did not touch the bat or a hand holding the bat, four runs are scored as the relevant type of extra instead; six runs cannot be scored as extras, even if the ball clears the boundary, which is in any case extremely unlikely. Prior to 1910, six runs were only awarded for hits out of the ground.\n\nFour runs (or more) can also be scored by hitting the ball into the outfield and running between the wickets. Four runs scored in this way is referred to as an 'all run four' and is not counted as a boundary.\n\nFour runs are scored as overthrows if a fielder gathers the ball and then throws it so that no other fielder can gather it before it reaches the boundary. In this case, the batsman who hit the ball scores however many runs the batsmen had run up to that time, plus four additional runs, and it is counted as a boundary. If the ball has not come off the bat or hand holding the bat, then the runs are classified as 'extras' and are added to the team's score but not to the score of any individual batsman.\n\nThe scoring of a four or six by a good aggressive shot displays a certain amount of mastery by the batsman over the bowler, and is usually greeted by applause from the spectators. Fours resulting from an edged stroke, or from a shot that did not come off as the batsman intended, are considered bad luck to the bowler. As a batsman plays himself in and becomes more confident as his innings progresses, the proportion of his runs scored in boundaries often rises.\n\nAn average first-class match usually sees between 50 and 150 boundary fours. Sixes are less common, and usually fewer than 10 (and sometimes none) will be scored in the course of a match (especially a Test match).\n\nThe record for most sixes in a Test match innings is 12, which was achieved by Pakistani all-rounder Wasim Akram during an innings of 257 not out against Zimbabwe in October 1996 at Sheikhupura. The One Day International record for most sixes hit in an innings is held by Rohit Sharma who hit 16 sixes against Australia in Bengaluru on 2 November 2013 in his innings of 209 off 158 balls.\n\nBrendon McCullum currently holds the record for most sixes in a Test career with 107. Shahid Afridi holds the record for most sixes in an ODI career (351 in 398 matches, 369 innings, on his retirement). \nThe record for the most sixes in a Test match is 27, which occurred during a 2006 Test match between Pakistan and India at the Iqbal Stadium in Faisalabad. In their first innings, Pakistan hit eleven sixes. India hit nine in their first innings. Pakistan hit seven more sixes in their second innings.\n\nThe record for most sixes in a One Day International is 38, which was achieved in a match between India and Australia at M Chinnaswamy Stadium on 2 November 2013. India and Australia hit 19 sixes each. The equivalent record in Twenty20 Internationals was set on the AMI Stadium, 24 sixes were hit during the Twenty20 International match between India and New Zealand on 25 February 2009.\n\nIn 2012, during the First Test against Bangladesh in Dhaka, West Indies cricketer Chris Gayle became the first player to hit a six off the first ball in a Test cricket match.\n\nOn 31 August 1968, Garfield Sobers became the first man to hit six sixes off a single six-ball over in first-class cricket. The over was bowled by Malcolm Nash in Nottinghamshire's first innings against Glamorgan at St Helen's in Swansea. Nash was a seam bowler but decided to try his arm at spin bowling. This achievement was caught on film.\n\nOn 16 March 2007, in a match between South Africa and the Netherlands at the 2007 Cricket World Cup, Herschelle Gibbs became the first person to hit six sixes off an over in a One Day International match. The over was bowled by Dutch leg-spinner Daan van Bunge.\n\nOn 24 April 2013, in a second XI game for Lancashire against Yorkshire at Scarborough, Jordan Clark hit six sixes off left-arm spinner Gurham Randhawa.\n\nOn 8 July 2015, Victorian all-rounder Marcus Stoinis hit part-time medium-pacer Brendan Smith for six sixes in an over on his way to 121 from 73 balls while playing for the National Performance Squad in a 50-over match against a National Indigenous Squad. Smith, captain of the New South Wales under-17s, also sent down a wide meaning his one over of the match went for 37 runs. The game was a non-sanctioned practice match.\n\nOn 23 July 2017, Worcestershire Rapid's Ross Whiteley hit 6 sixes off six legal deliveries plus one wide to take the total number of runs in that over to 37 off bowler Karl Carver at Headingley. That achievement did not help Worcestershire Rapids beat the Yorkshire Vikings as the Yorkshire Vikings won by 37 runs after David Willey smashed 118.\n\nIn October 2018 Afghan player Hazratullah Zazai hit 6 sixes in an over, becoming the third ever batsman to do so in a Twenty20.\n"}
{"id": "762761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=762761", "title": "British Home Championship", "text": "British Home Championship\n\nThe British Home Championship was an annual football competition contested between the United Kingdom's four national teams: England, Scotland, Wales and Northern Ireland (the last of whom competed as Ireland for most of the competition's history). Starting during the 1883–84 season, it is the oldest international football tournament and it was contested until the 1983–84 season, when it was abolished after 100 years.\n\nBy the early 1880s, the development of football in the United Kingdom was gathering pace and the four national football teams of the UK were playing regular friendlies against each other, with nearly every team playing all the others annually. At the time, the football associations of each Home Nation (The Football Association (England), the Scottish Football Association, the Football Association of Wales and the Irish Football Association) had slightly different rules for football, and when matches were played the rules of whoever was the home team were used. While this solution was workable, it was hardly ideal. To remedy this, the four associations met in Manchester on 6 December 1882 and agreed on one uniform set of worldwide rules. They also established the International Football Association Board (IFAB) to approve changes to the rules (a task that it still performs).\n\nThe new rules meant that formal international competitions could now easily be devised. Thus, at the same meeting, the associations formalised the annual friendlies and the British Home Championship – the world's first international football competition – was born.\n\nThe Championship was held every football season, starting with the 1883–84 season (the first ever match seeing eventual winners Scotland beat Ireland 5–0 away on 24 January 1884). The dates of the fixtures varied, but they tended to bunch towards the end of the season (sometimes the entire competition was held in a few days at the end of the season), except between the World Wars, when some fixtures were played before Christmas. The rise of other international competitions, especially the World Cup and European Championships, meant that the British Home Championship lost a lot of its prestige as the years went on.\n\nHowever, the new international tournaments meant that the Championship took on added importance in certain years. The 1949–50 and 1953–54 Championships doubled up as qualifying groups for the 1950 and 1954 World Cups respectively and the results of the 1966–67 and 1967–68 Championships were used to determine who went forward to the second qualifying round of Euro '68.\n\nThe British Home Championship was discontinued after the 1983–84 competition. There were a number of reasons for the tournament's demise, including it being overshadowed by the World Cup and European Championships, falling attendances at all but the England v Scotland games, fixture congestion, the rise of hooliganism, the Troubles in Northern Ireland (civil unrest led to the 1980–81 competition being abandoned), and England's desire to play against 'stronger' teams. The fate of the competition was settled when the (English) Football Association, swiftly followed by the Scottish Football Association, announced in 1983 that they would not be entering after the 1983–84 Championship. The British Home Championship trophy remains the property of the Irish FA, as Northern Ireland were the most recent champions.\n\nThe Championship was replaced by the smaller Rous Cup, which involved just England, Scotland and, in later years, an invited guest team from South America. That competition, however, ended after just five years.\n\nSince then, there have been many proposals to resurrect the British Home Championship, with advocates pointing to rising attendances and a significant downturn in football-related violence. The Scottish, Welsh and Northern Irish football associations are keen on the idea, but the English association are less enthusiastic, claiming that they agree in principle, but that fixture congestion makes a revived tournament impractical.\n\nTherefore, the Scottish Football Association, the Football Association of Wales and the Irish Football Association, with the Republic of Ireland's Football Association of Ireland, pressed ahead and organised a tournament similar to the British Home Championship. The Nations Cup, between Scotland, Wales, Northern Ireland and the Republic of Ireland, was launched in Dublin in 2011. It was discontinued after one tournament because of poor attendance.\n\nEach team played every other team once (making for a total of three matches per team and six matches in total). Generally, each team played either one or two matches at home and the remainder away, with home advantage between two teams alternating each year (so if England played Scotland at home one year, they played them away the next).\n\nA team received two points for a win, one for a draw and none for a loss. From these points, a league table was constructed and whoever was top at the end of the competition was declared the winner. If two or more teams were equal on points, that position in the league table was shared (as was the Championship if it occurred between the top teams). In 1956, all four teams finished level on points and for the only time the Championship was shared four ways. From the 1978–79 Championship onwards, however, goal difference (total goals scored minus total goals conceded) was used to differentiate between teams level on points. If goal difference could still not separate them, then total goals scored was used.\n\nThe Scotland v England match of 5 April 1902 became known as the Ibrox Disaster of 1902. The match took place at Ibrox Park (now Ibrox Stadium) in Glasgow. During the first half, a section of the terracing in the overcrowded West Stand collapsed, killing 26 and injuring over 500. Play was stopped, but was restarted after 20 minutes, with most of the crowd not knowing what had happened. The match was later declared void and replayed at Villa Park, Birmingham.\n\nThe 1950 British Home Championship was used as a qualification group for the 1950 FIFA World Cup, with the teams finishing both first and second qualifying. England and Scotland were guaranteed the top two places and World Cup qualification with one match to go, when the Scottish Football Association declared that it would only go to the 1950 World Cup if they were the British champions. Scotland played England at Hampden Park on 15 April in the final game and lost 1–0 to a goal by Chelsea's Roy Bentley. Scotland finished second and withdrew from what would have been their first-ever World Cup appearance.\n\nThe 1966–67 British Home Championship was the first since England's victory at the World Cup 1966. Naturally, England were favourites for the Championship title. In the end, the outcome of the entire Championship rested on the final game: England v Scotland at Wembley Stadium in London on 15 April. If England won or drew, they would win the Championship; if Scotland won, they would triumph. Scotland beat the World Cup winners 3–2. The match was followed by a large, but relatively harmless, pitch invasion by the jubilant Scottish fans, who were quick to waggishly declare Scotland the 'World Champions', as the game was England's first defeat since winning the World Cup. The Scots' joke ultimately led to the conception of the Unofficial Football World Championships.\n\nAgain, the 1976–77 Championship came down to the final game between England and Scotland at Wembley on 4 June. Scotland won the game 2–1, making them champions. As in 1967, a pitch invasion by the overjoyed Scottish fans followed, but this time extensive damage ensued: the pitch was ripped up (although it was going to be relaid after the game) and taken back to Scotland in small pieces to be laid in back gardens, along with one of the broken crossbars.\n\nThe Troubles in Northern Ireland had affected the British Home Championship before, with things turning so hostile that Northern Ireland often had to play their 'home' games in Liverpool or Glasgow. The entire 1980–81 Championship was held in May 1981, which coincided with a large amount of civil unrest in Northern Ireland surrounding the hunger strike in the Maze Prison. Northern Ireland's two home matches, against England and Wales, were not moved, so both teams refused to travel to Belfast to play. As not all the matches were completed, that year's competition was declared void with no winner; only Scotland completed all their matches. It was the only time in the Championship's history, apart from during World War I and World War II, that it was not awarded.\n\nThe Home Championships came to an end, with England and Scotland announcing that the 1983–84 British Home Championship would be their last. They cited waning interest in the games, crowded international fixture lists and a sharp rise in hooliganism for their decision. The final match of the Championship was held at Hampden Park between Scotland and England in which the winners of the game would win the final Championship. The match ended in a 1–1 draw, allowing Northern Ireland to win the Championship on goal difference after all the teams ended on three points each; Wales came second on goals scored.\n\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> Does not include the Home Victory Championship 1945–1946 & 1980–81 championship where Scotland was on top when tournament was cancelled because of Northern Ireland civil unrest.\n\n\na. Name of the Home Championship in the languages of participating countries:\n\n"}
{"id": "35204144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35204144", "title": "Burma at the 1976 Summer Paralympics", "text": "Burma at the 1976 Summer Paralympics\n\nBurma sent a delegation to compete at the 1976 Summer Paralympics in Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Its athletes finished twenty eight in the overall medal count.\n"}
{"id": "7736402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7736402", "title": "Caid (sport)", "text": "Caid (sport)\n\nCaid () is the name given to various ancient and traditional Irish football games. \"Caid\" is now used by people in some parts of Ireland to refer to modern Gaelic football.\n\nThe word \"caid\" originally referred to the ball which was used. It was made out of animal skin, with a natural bladder inside.\n\n\"Caid\" is believed to have influenced the modern sport of Gaelic football the rules of which were officially published in 1887 and is now organised and governed by the Gaelic Athletic Association (GAA) as an amateur sport. \n\nThere is some evidence that \"caid\" was taken around the world by the Irish diaspora, and some historians argue that it may have also played some part in the origins of Australian rules football, although such a relationship is controversial and the subject of debate. \n\nThe first recorded mention of football in Ireland was in 1308, when John McCrocan, a spectator at a football game at Newcastle, County Down, was charged with accidentally stabbing a player named William Bernard. Football games are mentioned in the \"Statute of Galway\", 1527, which allowed the playing of football and archery, but banned \"'hokie' — the hurling of a little ball with sticks or staves\", as well as other sports. The Sunday Observance Act of 1695 imposed a fine of one shilling for anyone found playing. Despite this, the earliest recorded football match in Ireland was one between Louth and Meath, at Slane, in 1712.\n\n\"Caid\" was especially popular in rural areas, such as the Dingle Peninsula of Kerry and Eigeen in west Cork. One observer in the mid-19th century, Father W. Ferris, described two main forms of \"caid\" during this period: the \"field game\" in which the object was to put the ball through arch-like goals, formed from the boughs of two trees, and; the epic \"cross-country game\" which took up most of the daylight hours of a Sunday on which it was played, and was won by one team taking the ball across a parish boundary. Both of these were rough and tumble contact sports in which \"wrestling\", pushing and the holding of opposing players was allowed. It was usually played by teams of unlimited numbers, representing communities, until a clear result was achieved or the players became too exhausted to continue. \n\nThese games appear to have been similar to the traditional Welsh game of \"cnapan\", which was played by teams of up to 1,000 men from adjacent parishes. \"Cnapan\", however, was played with a hard ball and thus involved no kicking; it was strictly a game in which the ball was passed or smuggled from one player to another, with the object of getting it to the opposing team's parish church porch or to some other agreed destination. An inter parish mob football game similar to \"cnapan\" called \"Hyrlîan\" (In English \"Hurling\") is still played in Cornwall on dates that coincide with religious festivals such as Shrove Tuesday.\n\nBy the late 19th century, \"caid\" was in steep decline and was threatened with extinction, spurring the formation of the GAA which published official rules for the game in 1887 also adopting aspects of the earlier codified sport - hurling.\n"}
{"id": "26964278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26964278", "title": "Challenged Athletes Foundation", "text": "Challenged Athletes Foundation\n\nThe Challenged Athletes Foundation (CAF), established in 1997, assists, supports, and provides opportunity to people with physical challenges, so that they can lead active lifestyles and compete in athletic events. It is founded in the belief that involvement in sports at any level increases self-esteem, encourages independence and enhances quality of life. The Foundation does this by providing funding for training, competition, rehabilitation, and equipment for the challenged athletes.\n\nThe Challenged Athletes Foundation is divided into four different programs: Access for Athletes, Operation Rebound, Catch a Rising Star, and Project N.Ex.T., all of which focus on the betterment of disabled athletes, but vary in their target group. Access for Athletes is the flagship program of CAF.\n\nChallenged Athletes Foundation was founded in 1997 in response to below-knee-amputee endurance racer Jim MacLaren who suffered an accident while competing in a triathlon. In June 1993, while competing in a triathlon in Orange County, California, MacLaren was on his bike when a van went through a closed intersection, hit the back of the bike and propelled him into a pole. When he arrived at the hospital he was told that he was a quadriplegic and would never move again from the waist down.\n\nThe following are programs which CAF offers or supports:\n\n\nThe Challenged Athletes Foundation holds a number of high-profile fund raising events in order to raise money to support disabled athletes to compete in sports. These include CAF events the San Diego Triathlon Challenge; Million Dollar Challenge; Heroes, Heart and Hope Gala held at the Waldorf Astoria in New York City, Hawaii Revisited; Tour de Cove; Rock on the Green and numerous other events under the banner of Race for a Reason.\n\nThe Challenged Athletes Foundation has enabled a number of disabled athletes to get to the starting line. Amongst these are Sarah Reinertsen who was the first female leg amputee to complete the Ironman Triathlon World Championships in Kona, Hawaii.\n\nOther well-known challenged athletes include:\n\n"}
{"id": "47350051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47350051", "title": "Challenger Columbia Stadium", "text": "Challenger Columbia Stadium\n\nChallenger Columbia Stadium is a multi-purpose stadium in League City, Texas. It is the second stadium in the Clear Creek Independent School District (CCISD) and serves all five of its comprehensive 6A high schools. The stadium was built to relieve the overused and deficient Veterans Memorial Stadium and end the frequently scheduled Thursday night football games for all the CCISD high schools.\n\nCCISD's Veterans Memorial Stadium was built in the 1950s at Clear Creek High School to serve the one 3A high school in the district at the time. Since then, the district has grown tremendously, opening four more high schools. Since 2000 alone, the district has built two high schools, opening Clear Springs High School in 2007 and Clear Falls High School in 2010. With five 6A high schools to serve, Veterans Memorial Stadium is unable to fully handle the load, leading to numerous Thursday football games. Events at Veterans Memorial, in turn, increase traffic and congestion at the neighboring CCISD facilities and residential area. Stadium parking overflows into the parking lots at Clear Creek High School, Clear Creek Intermediate, the CCISD Education Support Center, and neighboring businesses and residences. The traffic also affects the already congested Five Corners of League City, where the stadium is located.\n\nClear Creek ISD held a bond election on 11 May 2013 with the construction of a second district stadium as a major item. The bond was approved with 68% in favor. The 2013 Bond also calls for the rebuilding of multiple campuses in the district and major construction at others, along with the introduction of improved technological learning.\n\nThe stadium broke ground on 26 March 2014 at a ceremony with family members of the Challenger and Columbia crews and members of various CCISD extracurricular activities (football, band, cheerleading, track, etc.) present.\n\nChallenger Columbia Stadium was originally scheduled for completion in mid-2015, in time for the 2015 high school football season. However, heavy rains in the Houston-area throughout the spring of 2015 led to construction delays. Clear Creek ISD eventually determined that the stadium would not be done in time for the 2015 season, and the schedules for the five high schools had to be changed and consolidated back to only one stadium, Veterans Memorial Stadium.\n\nAfter multiple delays, Challenger Columbia Stadium opened in March 2016 with an official dedication on 10 March 2016. The dedication ceremony included the athletes, bands, and cheerleaders from the five high schools and tributes to the crew members lost in the Challenger and Columbia disasters.\n\nCCISD serves the Clear Lake area, including the area directly around NASA's Johnson Space Center. The stadium site is also located adjacent to the Challenger Seven Memorial Park. The district chose the name Challenger Columbia Stadium to honor the 14 astronauts who lost their lives in the Challenger disaster in 1986 and the Columbia disaster in 2003. Clear Creek ISD broke ground on Challenger Columbia stadium on 26 March 2014 with family members of some of the lost crew members in attendance. \n\n"}
{"id": "2376438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2376438", "title": "Chennai Veerans", "text": "Chennai Veerans\n\nThe Chennai Veerans was a Tier-1 level field hockey team Premier Hockey League in India. In the inaugural cup in 2005, the \"Chennai Veerans\" led by Ignace Tirkey finished at the bottom of the group with two wins and six losses.\n\nAfter finishing at the bottom of the premier division in the inaugural PHL in year 2005, Chennai Veerans were relegated to Tier-II division of PHL in 2006, where they played along with Orissa Steelers, Lucknow Nawabs, Delhi Dazzlers and Imphal Rangers. In this league Chennai Veerans finished runners-up to Orissa Steelers. \nIt was later decided that in 2007 no team should be relegated from Tier I. Instead 2 teams were added to the premier division [Tier-I]. So 7 teams entered the current Tier-I of 3rd PHL-2007 - 1) Sher-e-jalandhar, 2) Orissa Steelers, 3) Bangalore Lions, 4) Maratha Warriors, 5) Chennai Veerans, 6) Chandigarh Dynamos, and the Tier-II division was scrapped for the year 2007 by the IHF.\n\n\nThe current team of Chennai Veerans in 2007 PHL is led by Adam Sinclair.\n\nTheir brand ambassador for the 2007 season is actor Madhavan\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11814004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11814004", "title": "Cherokee marbles", "text": "Cherokee marbles\n\nCherokee marbles (ᏗᎦᏓᏲᏍᏗ, digadayosdi), or \"five hole,\" is a traditional game among the Cherokee people of the United States.\n\nIt is played, traditionally, with round balls made of stone, but now sometimes with standard billiard balls. An annual tournament is held during Cherokee National Holiday each Labor Day weekend.\n\nThe origin of the game is unknown, and it is not mentioned in the works of ethnologist James Mooney.\n\nCherokee marbles is a similar game to the rolley hole marbles played by Anglo-Americans in Kentucky and Tennessee, though the dimensions are different and rolley hole uses three holes instead of five.\n\nMore recently, the game has been introduced into the public schools in Northeast Oklahoma, by the Cherokee Nation, as part of a program to discourage methamphetamine abuse.\n\nThere is an official rulebook which is used in tournament play. It is played on a field about 100 feet in length, and with five holes. A player must advance to each hole, knocking other players' marbles out in a prescribed manner, and return again.\n\n"}
{"id": "44802861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44802861", "title": "Choi Jung Hwa", "text": "Choi Jung Hwa\n\nChoi Jung Hwa (born 22 May 1951) is the only son of General Choi Hong Hi, who is always regarded as the founder of Taekwondo.\n\nChoi Jung Hwa studied taekwondo since the age of 7 under his father and many prominent high ranking taekwondo Masters during their visits and stays with General Choi. His claimed earliest recollections of training are around the time General Choi was appointed as Korea's Ambassador to Malaysia.\n\nChoi spent his early childhood training on the lawn of the Embassy compound, as there were no dojangs established at that point. He grew up in an environment surrounded by taekwondo due to General Choi's schedule and work in spreading taekwondo globally. Choi Jung Hwa trained with many high-ranking instructors during this period.\n\nChoi held the post of Secretary General and Vice Secretary of the ITF for several years until elected as Choi Hong Hi's successor to the Presidency by the ITF members in 2001. He allegedly offered that General Choi should remain ITF President for the first 2 years of that term as to give him the opportunity to \"retire with dignity\" in 2003. General Choi Hong Hi died less than 12 months later.\n\nChoi Jung Hwa was promoted to 9th Degree Black Belt in 2004 and to the rank of Grandmaster. Choi prefers the title of President or Master to Grandmaster.\n\nHe has been a regular visitor to Australia since the mid-1990s.\n\nAfter his father's death he formed his own International Taekwondo Federation. Prior to forming his own Taekwondo organization he was a Vice Secretary of his father's ITF organization.\n\nChoi Jung Hwa still works extensively promoting Taekwon-Do around the world and is accredited with introducing and developing Taekwon-Do in many Eastern European countries such as Poland, Yugoslavia, Czechoslovakia, Romania, the former USSR and the Democratic Peoples Republic of Korea.\n\nUnder his leadership, the ITF historically returned to South Korea for its 2004 ITF World Championships. ITF has now commenced re-establishing itself in South Korea, Choi Jung Hwa's country of birth. \n\"As an organization, we must become sensitive to the changes around us and be able to cope, without compromising the principles – that is, to maintain this purity of technique and philosophy that General Choi handed down to us…..Don't forget the standards include moral as well as technical.\"\n\nIn 1971 Choi Jung Hwa emigrated to Canada. In 1983 Choi was convicted in Canada on charges that he conspired to assassinate the President of South Korea Chun Doo-Hwan. He was sentenced in Canada, and was barred from South Korea (this has since been rescinded).\n\n"}
{"id": "58721470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58721470", "title": "Colour of Your Jumper", "text": "Colour of Your Jumper\n\n\"Colour of Your Jumper\" is a song written by Australian singer songwriter Archie Roach in 1993, following an incident where indigenous Australian Football League player Nicky Winmar was receiving racial abuse from spectators resulting in Winmar lifting up his jumper and, facing to the crowd, pointed to his skin. A demo of this version was later included on the 2013 compilation album \"Creation\". \n\nIn May 2010, Roach performed the song at Melbourne's Federation Square as part of the Long Walk festivities.\n\nIn May 2013, Roach re-recorded and released \"Colour of Your Jumper\" which was released as a single. Roach performed the song live on The Marngrook Footy Show on 23 May 2013 and at the AFL Indigenous Round \"Dreamtime at the 'G\" game on 25 May 2013 between Essendon and Richmond. \n\nThe song was re-recorded again and included on Roach's 2018 album, \"Dancing with My Spirit\".\n\nOn 17 April 1993 at Victoria Park, Melbourne, an Australian Football League match between Collingwood and St Kilda Football Club was taking place. St Kilda player Nicky Winmar was racially abused by members of the Collingwood cheersquad, who yelled for him to \"go and sniff some petrol\" and \"go walkabout where you came from\". At the conclusion of the game, Winmar lifted up his jumper and, facing to the crowd, pointed to his skin. The following day, a photograph of Winmar's gesture was published by \"Sunday Age\" and \"Sunday Herald Sun\". The gesture, was described as a \"powerful statement\", an \"anti-racist symbol\", and one of the \"most poignant\" images in Australian sport, has been credited as a catalyst for the movement against racism in Australian football. The event inspired Roach to write the song \"Colour of Your Jumper\", and in particular, racist comments from then Collingwood Football Club president Allan McAllister.\n\nRoach said “When Nicky lifted his jumper that day and pointed to his black skin in defiance of the racial abuse directed at him and other indigenous players in 1993, it made me sad and angry that this champion would have to do that. More importantly, I think, is what the jumper meant to Nicky and many others on that fateful day. What I saw was not just an Aboriginal man proud of his heritage and people, but a young man who had made it, an elite sportsman in the greatest game, Australian Rules Football, the AFL, who played his heart out for that jumper.”\n"}
{"id": "29478183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29478183", "title": "Contact play", "text": "Contact play\n\nThe contact play is a base running play in the sport of baseball. It usually refers to a runner on third base breaking for home (but occasionally refers to a runner at second base breaking for third). Similar to the safety-squeeze play, the runner at third breaks for home as soon as he sees that the batted ball is on a downward plane for a ground ball. If there is a runner at second base, he will also break for third if the batted ball is on the first base side of second. The play can backfire if the ball is hit directly at the third baseman or the pitcher as a putout will naturally be made at home plate to prevent the run from scoring. In this situation, the baserunner may freeze and return to third. At this point the runner at third's objective changes from scoring to getting in a rundown in order to provide an opportunity for the batter to end up at second base. The main advantage to breaking for home on contact is that it reduces the amount of time an infielder will have to make a play at home and, thus, increases the likelihood of the runner scoring. A secondary advantage is that the possibility of a contact play will often cause the defensive infielders to \"play in,\" meaning closer to home plate, giving them less time to react to a hit ball and a greater likelihood of not being able to field it cleanly.\n\nThe contact play is normally used when there is one out. With no outs, it is generally considered best not to risk being thrown out at home, since there will still be two more opportunities for later batters to drive in the runner. The only exception is when there is also a runner at first, since any ball fielded quickly enough to throw out the runner trying to score is also likely to be an easy double play ball, and the team has a much higher run expectation that inning if the result of the play is an out at home and runners on first and second than if the result is two outs and a runner at third. With two outs, all runners on base automatically break on contact, since there is no point in staying at their base while the fielder gets the final out of the inning by throwing to first base.\n\nMost students of Sabermetrics believe the contact play is proper strategy whenever there is a man on third and one out, since the loss from failure is tiny. Using standard tables of run expectation based on the number of outs and runners on base (such as Sabremetrics 101: Run Expectancy Matrix, 1999–2002), the difference between having a runner on third with two outs (the usual result of not using the contact play on a typical ground ball out) and having a runner on second with two outs (the usual result of using the contact play and having the breaking runner caught in a rundown) is only 0.043 runs. When the contact play scores a runner who otherwise would still be at third while an out is recorded at first, the net gain is 0.730. Put another way, even if the contact play failed 16 times for every one time it succeeded, it would improve a team's run scoring overall. Even that understates the advantage, since the need for the defense to play in often results in both the runner scoring and the batter reaching base safely, in which case the net benefit is 1.186 runs, which means that it could fail 27 times as often as it helped and still benefit the team overall.\n"}
{"id": "21609444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21609444", "title": "Controllable slope soaring", "text": "Controllable slope soaring\n\nControllable-slope soaring (also known as Walkalong gliding) is a type of slope soaring where a slope is made to follow a walkalong glider (a lightweight toy aircraft), both sustaining and controlling the glider's trajectory by modifying the wind in the vicinity of the airplane. \n\nA controllable slope is any object which can be used to affect the air under the airplane: a piece of cardboard, the pilot's hands or even head. The controllable slope is usually manipulated by a person following the glider in flight (please see photo at right). \n\nControllable-slope soaring allows a glider to achieve sustained flight without the need for an onboard aircraft engine or onboard flight control system.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30011941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30011941", "title": "County Cricket Council", "text": "County Cricket Council\n\nThe County Cricket Council was a short lived body intended to regulate county cricket in England. It existed from 1887 to 1890.\n\nThe Council was the brain-child of Lord Harris. In November 1886 he had sent a letter to the County Secretaries asking the question as to whether the existing two year qualification rule should be reduced to one year. Under this rule players who changed counties generally had to serve a two year residence qualification in their new county during which they were unable to play inter-county matches for either county. The proposal was defeated at the annual Secretary's meeting in December 1886, but at the same meeting it was agreed that a committee be set up to consider the rules of county cricket generally. At a meeting in July 1887, at which the report of the committee was considered, it was agreed that a County Cricket Council be formed. It was further agreed that the existing committee frame the by-laws of the new Council.\n\nThe first meeting on the Council was on 5 December 1887 at which Lord Harris was elected Chairman. Nothing specific was agreed at this meeting but at a further meeting on 8 February 1888 a change to the hours of play was agreed, as was a proposal regarding a change in the lbw law. Since the M.C.C. decided the laws this was no more than a suggestion. A proposal abolishing boundaries in favour of all hits run out was defeated.\n\nAt the December 1888 meeting a number of proposals relating to the qualification rules were considered but were not carried.\n\nAt the December 1889 meeting a proposal by Durham regarding the classification of the counties and a system of promotion and relegation was considered. A committee was set up to consider the issues. The committee proposed three tiers of counties; the existing 8 first class counties, 8 second-class counties and a further 8 third-class counties. It proposed a system of promotion and relegation involving the bottom team of one division playing the top team in the lower division. They would play each other home and away in the following season, the results determining whether the two changed places. Any change would take place in the following season, promotion would therefore take two years.\n\nThese proposals were considered at the fourth annual meeting of the Council in December 1890. They were not well received. Eventually a vote was taken on whether The Cricket Council itself should be suspended sine die. The motion was passed on the casting vote of the Chairman, Mr M.J. Ellison, and The Cricket Council effectively ceased to exist. \"This utterly unexpected result fairly took those present by surprise, and they dispersed hurriedly - a most undignified ending to what we are compelled to describe as a most unbusinesslike meeting.\"\n\nOn the following day, 9 December 1890, the county secretaries met to decide the fixtures for 1891. Since the Council had collapsed and no proposal had been passed the counties arranged their fixtures on the old basis of arranging \"home and home\" matches against whichever counties they wished. \"The most noticeable feature ... is the encouragement given to Somersetshire by the chief county clubs. Middlesex played the western shire last summer, but Kent, Surrey, Yorkshire, Gloucestershire and Lancashire will next summer test the merits of the eleven, which showed such good all round cricket, under Mr. H.T. Hewett's command, last year.\" By arranging these 12 matches against first-class counties Somerset became a de facto first-class county without any proposal or vote to that effect.\n"}
{"id": "16926003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16926003", "title": "Crabble Athletic Ground", "text": "Crabble Athletic Ground\n\nThe Crabble Athletic Ground, also known as The Crabble or simply Crabble, is a football stadium located in the northern Dover suburb of River, Kent. It was the home of the various incarnations of Dover F.C. from 1931 until the club folded in 1983. Since then it has been the home of Dover Athletic F.C., and it was also the temporary home of Margate F.C. between 2002 and 2004, when the club's Hartsdown Park stadium was being redeveloped. The stadium has two seated stands and two covered terraces and holds a total of 5,745 fans (including 1,010 seats and 3,642 covered terracing), although in the past, crowds larger than that figure could be accommodated. It also has a clubhouse, which the club completely redeveloped in 2008.\n\nA sports ground was first established on the site at the end of the 19th century and was used for both cricket and football as well as for other sports. This ground was used by Kent County Cricket Club for over 100 first-class cricket matches between 1907 and 1976 and is now the home of Dover Rugby Union Club.\n\nIn 1896, a syndicate of local businessmen began a project to create a sports complex at the site known as Crabble Meadows on the outskirts of Dover. The word \"Crabble\", which is also found in the name of a local corn mill, derives from the Old English \"crabba hol\", meaning a hole in which crabs are found. The project was an extremely costly one but was completed in 1897, and football was first played on the Crabble site in the same year. The ground was originally laid out on an plateau \"carved out of the side of the hill\" and was originally laid out to cater for cricket and football, with an athletics track and international standard cycling track around the edge of the playing surfaces.\n\nIn 1902, the original owners of the site, beset by financial problems, contemplated selling the land for redevelopment but eventually sold the site to the town council for £5,500. The pitch was shared by the town's cricket and football teams, with the cricketers being given priority, which meant that the football team was forced to begin and end its season either with a long run of consecutive away matches or by playing matches at other, less satisfactory, venues in the town. To resolve the issue, the council opted to lay out a new football pitch further up the hillside, behind the lower pitch's pavilion. The first match played on the \"upper pitch\" took place in September 1931, with a small stand being constructed the following year. The football club then used the upper pitch whenever the lower pitch was unavailable due to cricket commitments.\n\nDover F.C. applied for permission to build a grandstand on the southern side of the \"upper pitch\" in 1947, but the application was rejected. Three years later, the club was permitted to extend the existing small stand on the opposite side and in 1951, Dover F.C. moved to the upper pitch on a permanent basis, initially paying the council rent of £300 a year. The final match on the lower pitch took place on 26 March 1951, and the first on the upper pitch was held eleven days later, when Fulham were Dover's opponents in a friendly. Due to a shortage of bolts, the grandstand had not actually been completed at this time. Covered terracing at the Town End, where fans had previously stood on the hillside, was added soon afterwards. Floodlights were added in 1961 and inaugurated with a match against a Chelsea XI.\n\nDover F.C folded in 1983, but the newly formed Dover Athletic took over the ground and continued to make improvements. When the team won the Southern League championship in 1990, however, promotion to the Football Conference was refused on the grounds that the stadium did not meet the standard required by the higher division. Subsequently, new turnstiles were installed and two new terraces were built behind the goals. The seating in the main stand was replaced and a second grandstand was added on the opposite side of the pitch. These improvements meant that the club was able to gain promotion after its second Southern League title in 1993. In the 2002–03 and 2003–04 seasons, Margate F.C. played home fixtures at the stadium while redevelopment work took place at their own Hartsdown Park ground. What was originally intended to be a short-term arrangement ended up lasting for two years as the redevelopment work stalled.\nBetween 2003 and 2004, the ground was known as the Hoverspeed Stadium under the terms of a sponsorship deal. In 2007, the club announced that under another such arrangement, the stadium would be known as the SeaFrance Crabble Stadium, however a year later it was announced that the deal would not be renewed due to the ferry operator's financial constraints. On 1 July 2008, the club announced local car dealership Perry's as the club's new main sponsor, with the stadium being rebranded as the Perry's Crabble Stadium. In 2008 the club launched a project to replace the existing clubhouse with a new £200,000 building featuring a larger bar, better audio-visual facilities and a high quality kitchen. The club hopes the new building will become a popular venue for social and business functions.\n\nThe stadium is known for its unusual location, being set into the side of a hill. It has two seated stands and two covered terraces. The Main Stand, which has been in place since 1951, occupies the length of one side of the pitch and has a roof supported by numerous columns, which obscure the view for some fans. Identical covered terraces for standing spectators are behind both goals, which also suffer from an obstructed view. The small Family Stand occupies a portion of the side opposite the Main Stand. The remainder of this side of the ground is taken up by the clubhouse, toilets and other club facilities. Unlike most football stadiums, the club directors' lounge is set atop one of the stands. In December 2009 the Football Association gave the stadium's facilities an A grade, meaning that it meets the minimum standard for entry to the Football League.\n\nThe stadium is approximately from Kearsney railway station, which lies on Southeastern's Chatham Main Line from London Victoria to Dover Priory. Dover Priory itself is further away, but connecting bus services are available. Parking is available around the perimeter of the adjacent rugby club.\n\nThe highest attendance ever recorded at the ground was recorded when \"just under 7,000\" fans were in attendance for a match between Dover F.C. and Folkestone on 13 October 1951. Current club Dover Athletic's record home attendance is the crowd of 5,645 for the match against Crystal Palace in the FA Cup on 4 January 2015.\n\nThe lower pitch at The Crabble was originally intended primarily for cricket. It was used by Dover Cricket Club and football matches had to be scheduled around cricket fixtures until Dover F.C. moved to the upper ground in the 1930s. The ground hosted MCC in 1899 and the first cricket festival was held on the ground in 1900. In 1907 the ground was first used by Kent County Cricket Club as one of its home venues for first-class cricket, a move \"The Times\" classed as \"something of an experiment\". The experiment, with Gloucestershire providing the opposition, was successful and from 1908 the ground was given a cricket week by the county club, with two first-class matches played in almost every season until the end of the 1960s. \n\nAfter a series of matches during the 1960s where the pitch was considered not at first-class standard, only one match was held at the ground in 1968 after an MCC inspector passed the ground fit. After a full festival programme in 1969, Kent gradually began to move away from the ground. The final first-class match on the ground was played against Derbyshire in July 1976.\n\nKent played a total of 106 first-class matches on the ground as well as using it for four List A cricket matches between 1970 and 1975 and for occasional Second XI matches in the 1970s and 1980s. Kent Women played matches against New Zealand in 1984 and Australia in 1987 on the ground and it was used by the England women's cricket team for a warm-up match ahed of the 1993 Women's World Cup. After Kent played the final match on the ground in 1976, it continued to be used by Dover Cricket Club until the club was forced to close down in 2004 with debts of over £10,000.\n\nA total of 106 first-class matches were held on the ground, all with Kent as the home team.\n\n\nBill Ashdown's individual score of 305 not out was his second triple-century and followed his score of 332 the previous season against Essex at Brentwood. It remained Kent's second highest individual score and the highest score made by a Kent batsman on a home ground until 2017 when Sean Dickson scored 318 runs at Beckenham. George Collins' bowling figures of 10/65 in an innings in 1922 was the third time a Kent bowler had taken all 10 wickets in an innings. As of March 2018, they are the third best innings bowling figures in the county's history.\n\nFour List A fixtures were also played by Kent on the ground between 1970 and 1975, all in the Sunday League. Hylton Ackerman made the only century scored in List A cricket on the ground, scoring 115 not out for Northants in 1970. The highest team score on the ground was made during the same match, Kent scoring 240 runs to win the 40 over match.\n\nThe lower ground was originally laid out as a sports ground with the capacity to play football, cricket, hockey and lawn tennis. It was surrounded by an athletics track and a cycling track and the ground was used regularly for both sports – its opening event was a cycling meeting organised by Dover Cycling Club. The cycling track remains and the ground and original cricket pavilion are used by Dover RFC for rugby union matches.\n\n"}
{"id": "3403403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3403403", "title": "Democratic Republic of the Congo at the 2000 Summer Olympics", "text": "Democratic Republic of the Congo at the 2000 Summer Olympics\n\nThe Democratic Republic of the Congo competed at the 2000 Summer Olympics in Sydney, Australia.\n\nMen's marathon\n\nWomen's 100m\n\nWomen's 200m\n\n"}
{"id": "3694829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3694829", "title": "Djoliba AC", "text": "Djoliba AC\n\nDjoliba Athletic Club is a Malian football club and one of the two biggest teams in Mali alongside the Stade Malien. The team is based in the capital city of Bamako. It has its headquarters and three training stadia at Complex Sportif Hérémakono, in the Heremakono \"Quartier\". The President of Djoliba AC, re-elected in 2009 to a four-year term, is Karounga Keita a Vice President of FEMIFOOT, former trainer at the club, who was a player at the founding of the club in 1960. \"Djoliba\" or \"Joliba\" is the name of the Niger River in the Bamana language. Not only a football club, Djoliba AC is an Omnisports club which fields teams in many sports, and is operated as a membership organisation with an elected board.\n\nThe club was created in 1960 by a fusion of \"\"Africa Sport\" Bamako and \"Foyer du Soudan\"\", two successful teams during French Colonial rule.\n\nThe team was helped a lot during the 1970s by officer , a prominent member of the ruling military dictatorship of president Moussa Traoré. Many critics of Djoliba AC, especially coming from the rival Stade Malien, claim that the strength of the club was built during that period.\n\nHowever, Tiekoro Bagayoko was gone in 1978 after his arrest, yet Djoliba kept obtaining titles and cups. Today, it is reputed to be the biggest and the most organized soccer club in Mali.\n\n2008 was a year of great success for Djoliba, having finished the year before in second place to their cross town rivals, Djoliba handily took the cup and league double in 2008. Reigning champions from the 2007 Malien Première Division, Stade and Djoliba sat atop the standings the entire season, with Djoliba leading by a small but consistent margin in the run up to the final games. Their 7 July derby match was postponed to August, and although they lost this match their rivals, Stade faltered where Djoliba were consistent, finishing the season 9 points ahead of Stade. The only Cup meeting between the two rivals in the season was in the Semi-finals of the Malien Cup, where Stade faced the humiliation of a 5–0 drubbing by Djoliba.\n\nDjoliba's one failure came at the end of the season, losing the \"Coupe du Maire du District\": the Bamako District Mayor's Cup to arch rivals Stade Malien. But while Stade made it to the final, its victory over Djoliba came from legal, rather than on the field factors. In the 44th minute of the match, Djoliba supporters rioted, attacking officials, other fans, and journalists. The match was called off, and several days later, awarded to Stade. Djoliba were fined 500.000 F cfa, all payments for previous matches were withdrawn, and they were excluded form the 2009 competition. Stade received the trophy and a 750,000 F Cfa award from the Mayor of Bamako Adama Sangaré on 23 September.\n\nDjoliba competed in 2008–09 Malian Première Division, beginning in December 2008. They began the season successfully, taking the Super Coupe National du Mali on 6 December against Club Olympique de Bamako 5–2. The Super Coupe launches the regular schedule by pitting the previous years' League and Cup winners. As Djoliba won both, they faced last years' Coupe du Mali runner up, COB.\n\nIn 2010, Djoliba celebrated its 50th anniversary of the merger and foundation of the club.\n\nTheir last championship win was in 2012 and their last super cup win was in 2013.\n\nDjoliba appeared at group stage in the 2012 CAF Confederation Cup, they challenged with AC Léopards of the Republic of the Congo, Morocco's WAC Casablanca and brought Mali's largest rivalry to the cup competition, Stade Malien, Djoliba defeat that club in two matches. Djoliba advanced to the semis and defeated a Sudanese club and challenged with AC Léopard's in the finals and lost to that club, there, they made the greatest position in the continental competitions for Djoliba.\n\nIn the 2017 season, Djoliba was 8th place and had two wins and a draw and had seven points before the abandonment as FEMAFOOT was dissolved by the government mainly by an undetermined reason on March 9, over a week later, FIFA suspended the Malian Football Federation on 17 March which meant all Malian clubs competing at the continental level were banned until May 7. The reason was that money that the Ministry of Sport gave to the clubs. The least problem of the\n\nDjoliba appeared in the 2017 CAF Confederation Cup and faced Egypt's al-Masry. Djoliba defeated that club 2-0, as a result of the March 2017 dissolution by the government, al-Masry was awarded against Djoliba 0-3 in the away match somewhere on March 18. The season was halted and in early May, the Federation was restored, their next challenge would be with Kita, that 6th round match is on hold. Their first challenge since the restoration was on 8 May, a 7th round match where the club defeated Black Stars 0-5 in Badalabougou.\n\nDjoliba plays at Stade 26 Mars. The club trains at Complex Sportif Hérémakono, in the Heremakono Quartier.\n\nIts rivalry is with Stade Malien forming the nation's largest rivalry known as the Grand Derby. Real Bamako is Djoliba's other rivalry being called the Bamako Derby and the nation's second largest.\n\n\n\n\n\nas of 8 April 2014\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31704606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31704606", "title": "Dugan Field", "text": "Dugan Field\n\nKen Dugan Field at Stephen Lee Marsh Stadium is a baseball venue located in Nashville, Tennessee, USA. It is home to the Lipscomb Bisons college baseball team of the NCAA's Division I Atlantic Sun Conference and the Nashville Outlaws of the collegiate summer Prospect League. The facility has a capacity of 1,500 spectators. The playing surface is named after Ken Dugan, Lipscomb baseball coach from 1960 to 1996 and winner of over 1,000 games as head of the program. The surrounding facility is named after Stephen Lee Marsh.\n\nSince the late 1940s, Lipscomb baseball played at a field next to Belmont Boulevard, an area close to Ken Dugan Field's modern location. This field was known as Onion Dell until 1984, when it was dedicated as Ken Dugan Field. When the baseball program moved nearby to a new, $1 million facility in 1991, the name was kept. On March 17, 2005, the facility was rechristened Ken Dugan Field at Stephen Lee Marsh Stadium.\n\nIn 2005, as part of the venue's renaming, stadium lighting was installed. In 2007, $50,000 renovations added a warning track and an artificial turf halo around home plate.\n\nDugan Field hosted the Atlantic Sun baseball tournament in 2010, 2011 and 2016.\n\nThe Nashville Outlaws of the Prospect League began playing at Ken Dugan Field in 2011, after spending their inaugural 2010 season at Vanderbilt University's Hawkins Field.\n\n"}
{"id": "14937969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14937969", "title": "Ecuador at the Olympics", "text": "Ecuador at the Olympics\n\nEcuador has competed in 12 Summer Olympic Games. They debuted in the Winter Olympic Games in 2018. The nation from South America won its first medal when Jefferson Pérez won the gold medal in the men's 20 km walk at the 1996 Olympic Games. The Ecuadorian National Olympic Committee was created in 1948 and recognized by the IOC in 1959.\n\nThe country made its Winter Olympics debut in 2018.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11293792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11293792", "title": "Eleven Arrows F.C.", "text": "Eleven Arrows F.C.\n\nThe Eleven Arrows are a Namibian football club from Walvis Bay. They play in the country's highest division, the Namibia Premier League.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51893615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51893615", "title": "FC Dzhalal-Abad", "text": "FC Dzhalal-Abad\n\nFC Dzhalal-Abad is a Kyrgyzstani football club based in Jalal-Abad, Kyrgyzstan that played in the top division in Kyrgyzstan, the Kyrgyzstan League.\n\n\nKyrgyzstan League:\n\nKyrgyzstan Cup:\n\n"}
{"id": "12035477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12035477", "title": "Geelong Racecourse", "text": "Geelong Racecourse\n\nThe Geelong Racecourse is a major regional horse racing venue in Geelong, Victoria, Australia. The current racecourse dates to 1908. The annual Geelong Cup is held at the course every October, as well as a number of other race meets through the year.\n\nThe first race meet in Geelong was on May 1 1841, at Corio. Three races were held on the day. The next meet was held at \"Airey's Flat\" on the banks the Moorabool River near Fyansford. In 1849 a start was made on a proper racecourse, with of land beside the Barwon River at Marshalltown chosen. Situated close to Lake Connewarre, the land was subject to frequent flooding.\n\nThe Geelong Racing Club was formed in 1866, holding their first meet on January 18 and 19 1866. February 23 1872 saw the first Geelong Cup held at the Marshalltown course, where a new grandstand was opened. A railway branch line was provided to the course in 1878. In 1907 it was decided to relocate the Geelong Racecourse and Geelong Showgrounds to their current site on Breakwater Road, East Geelong. The first race meet was held there in March 1908, with the first Geelong Racing Club meet being held there on December 12 1908. The Geelong Racecourse railway station was also provided at this time.\n\nThe course itself has seen a number of upgrades since, the most recent being the provision of a third grandstand and an upgrade of the track itself.\n\n\n0-9592863-5-7\n"}
{"id": "25976390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25976390", "title": "Guayaquil City F.C.", "text": "Guayaquil City F.C.\n\nGuayaquil City F.C. (known as \"C.D. River Ecuador\" until 2017) is an Ecuadorian professional football club based in Guayaquil. They currently play in the country's first-level football league—the Serie A—after gaining promotion from the segunda-level Primera Categoria.\n\nFormed in 2007 as \"Club Deportivo River Plate Ecuador\" (or \"River Ecuador\"), the club was founded through a partnership with the dominant Argentinian side River Plate. By 2010 the relationship had already ended, but the club continued to operate under its given name and with River Plate's traditional red kit colour.\n\nOn 11 July 2017 it was announced that River Ecuador had renamed themselves to \"Guayaquil City Fútbol Club\", changing their strip to sky blue and white horizontal stripes. The new name, kit colours and badge design prompted a number of claims that the change in identity was the result of a takeover by the Manchester City-linked City Football Group, though no evidence of this was forthcoming.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38867525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38867525", "title": "Irons (All-England cricketer, 1778)", "text": "Irons (All-England cricketer, 1778)\n\nIrons (first name and dates unknown) was an English first-class cricketer who made a single known appearance for All-England against Chertsey at Laleham Burway on 10–11 September 1778. Irons scored 4 runs with a highest score of 4. Irons may have played in the return match at the Artillery Ground on 15 September, but no details of that match have survived.\n\nAs Irons had established his reputation by 1778, he must have been active for some years previously. Very few players were mentioned by name in contemporary reports and there are no other references to Irons.\n"}
{"id": "5856472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5856472", "title": "Jesse White Tumbling Team", "text": "Jesse White Tumbling Team\n\nThe Jesse White Tumbling Team is a team of acrobats that was founded in 1959 by Illinois athlete and politician Jesse White and their agents Zach Mitchell. Their acrobatic performances, choreographed by Mitchell can frequently be seen during half-time shows for the National Basketball Association, the National Football League and Major League Baseball games. \n\nWhite, who still coaches, created the team for children residing in Chicago's inner city housing projects. It serves a juvenile delinquency prevention program. Members are required to abide by White's rules, which include staying in school, maintaining a C average in academic coursework and staying away from gangs and drugs. Since the team's inception, over 10,000 children, ages 6 and up, have participated in the program. \n\nThe tumblers have appeared in the movies \"Heaven is a Playground\", \"Ferris Bueller's Day Off\", and \"The Meteor Man\". They have performed at the half time for every NBA team with the exception of the Oklahoma City Thunder and the Charlotte Hornets. They have also appeared in two presidential inaugural parades, for President Bill Clinton and President Barack Obama.\n\nThe Jesse White Tumbling Team makes over 1,500 appearances each year, in state and out of state. They have gone to U.S. states as far as Hawaii, and have even made international performances. They have gone to Canada 17 times, Tokyo, Japan to appear on television, China for the Chinese New Year, Bermuda, the Cayman Islands, and Croatia.\n\nThe Team celebrated their 50th anniversary at the United Center in February 2010.\n\n"}
{"id": "40994763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40994763", "title": "KB Peja", "text": "KB Peja\n\nKB Peja is a basketball club based in Pejë, Kosovo. The club currently plays in the Kosovo Basketball Superleague.\n\nKB Peja won 6 National Championships, 4 Kosovo Basketball cup and 2 times Supercup of Kosovo. In KB Peja have played big names like Acie Earl, Fred House, Ricardo Marsh, Samir Shaptahu, Dardan Berisha etc.\n\nThe team was officially formed on 13 March 1993 under the ownership of Ilhami Gashi. The club's first manager was Valdet Spahija and the first roster consisted of Valdet Spahija (himself), Riza Gjakova, Ahmet Nimani, Besim Gjuka, Sebajdin Sylejmani, Agim Lluka, Agim Beqiraj and Turhan Zajmi.\n\nThe Former name was KB Peja until 2001, when Ekrem Lluka bought the club and renamed it to KB Dukagjini Peć (Dukagjini is the company named after the region). In 2005 the name changed back to KB Peja.\nIn 1996-97 season KB Peja played in second division due to some problems with Basketball Federation of Kosovo. Also in 2003-04 didn't complete in any league organized by Basketball Federation of Kosovo.\n\nIn the 2016–17 season, Peja would play in a European competitions for the first time, when the team entered the FIBA Europe Cup.\n\n\n \n\nUSA\nUSA\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4411312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4411312", "title": "Lesotho at the 2006 Commonwealth Games", "text": "Lesotho at the 2006 Commonwealth Games\n\nLesotho competed in the 2006 Commonwealth Games in Melbourne, Australia from 15 March – 26 March 2006.\n\nMoses Kopo, Boxing at the 2006 Commonwealth Games, Light Welterweight 64 kg.\n"}
{"id": "36722119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36722119", "title": "Listowel Racecourse", "text": "Listowel Racecourse\n\nListowel Racecourse is a horse racing venue in the town of Listowel, County Kerry, Ireland which stages both National Hunt and Flat racing. The course is flat and run left handed over an inner rectangular shaped circuit measuring just over a mile, and a triangular outer circuit of a mile and a furlong. There is a chute for the 7 furlong and 1 mile races. \nThe current racecourse which is close to the town centre first opened in 1858 and celebrated its 150th Anniversary in 2008.\n\nListowel's major race festival, the harvest festival, which was originally known as the North Kerry Hunt Steeplechase Meeting takes place each year in September over seven days with both national hunt and flat races taking place. It is one of the final festivals to take place in the summer, the last before Christmas and second only to the Galway Races in attendances. In total nine meetings take place each year with a two-day meeting every June.\n\nThe most valuable race run at Listowel is the Guinness Kerry National. It is run on the Wednesday of the Harvest Festival over a distance of 3 miles and worth €160,000 in prize money. Previous winners include the Aintree Grand National winner Monty's Pass.\n\n"}
{"id": "2309030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2309030", "title": "Long hop", "text": "Long hop\n\nA long hop is a type of inadvertent delivery in the sport of cricket. It describes a short delivery which is not especially fast, which is thus easy for the batsman to hit because he has plenty of time to observe the speed and direction of the ball after the bounce and choose his shot accordingly. In contrast, a fast short delivery which bounces high (to the batsman's chest or higher) is termed a bouncer and is often bowled deliberately because it is difficult to hit safely, due to the height at which it reaches the batsman.\n\nA fast ball which pitches short but (due to the vagaries of the wicket surface) does not bounce high is very difficult to defend against, for the batsman will usually expect the ball to bounce high in this situation; this can often lead to the batsman being out bowled or lbw when they leave a ball which appeared to be rising over the stumps but stayed low. Such deliveries are not called long hops, due to the difficulty they cause the batsman.\n\nThe term 'long hop', like the term 'Full toss', has passed into slang as a description of an argument or insult which is easily refuted or responded to.\n"}
{"id": "2784152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2784152", "title": "Manawatu Sires Produce Stakes", "text": "Manawatu Sires Produce Stakes\n\nThe Manawatu Sires Produce Stakes is a Group One horse race held for Thoroughbred two-year-olds at Awapuni Racecourse in Palmerston North, New Zealand. Run over 1400 metres in late March or early April, it is regarded as New Zealand's best two-year-old race. The race was first run in 1908 over 1200 metres with the current distance being adopted in 1926.\n"}
{"id": "53880545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53880545", "title": "Mike Rossi (DJ)", "text": "Mike Rossi (DJ)\n\nMike Rossi (born May 1967) is a disc jockey and former television host who gained national notoriety in 2015 after qualifying for the Boston Marathon with a time that later came under heavy scrutiny, resulting in widespread accusations that he had cheated in his qualifying race.\n\nRossi was one of the dancers on the 1980s television show Dancin' On Air. In 1986, one of the hosts quit, and 36 hours later, Rossi became one of the co-hosts of the show at the age of 18. The show was canceled in 1987.\n\nIn 2015, Rossi ran in the Boston Marathon, and brought his wife and 9-year-old twins on the trip from their hometown of Abington, Pennsylvania. He subsequently received a form letter from his children's principal informing him that a family vacation was not an excusable reason for absence, and that the school days his children missed would be marked as unexcused. Rossi then wrote a response to the principal, which he never mailed, but did post on Facebook; the post went viral, and was shared by over 28,700 people within a week.\n\nAfter appearances on the Today show and Fox & Friends, controversy erupted over how Rossi qualified for the Boston Marathon. Rossi had submitted a qualifying time of 3:11 that he had supposedly run in the Lehigh Valley Health Network Via Marathon. The organizers of that marathon asked USA Track & Field for help in investigating cheating allegations, raised mostly by other runners who, in exploring Rossi's race history, noticed that a 3:11 marathon was inconsistent with all of Rossi’s other publicly available race results. In addition, there were no photos of Rossi anywhere on the Lehigh marathon race course except for at the finish line, while most other runners were seen in 10 or more pictures taken along the way by a company hired to take photographs of the runners. \n\nThe editors of LetsRun.com, one of the top five running-centric websites in the world, called the evidence \"overwhelming\" that \"Rossi did not run the entire 2014 Lehigh Valley Marathon.\" The organizers of the Via Marathon sent LetsRun a statement explaining why they could not disqualify Rossi's time, stating it was \"simply because they received no reports of wrongdoing as the race took place.\" They also stated that \"there is data from Rossi’s participation in other racing events indicating that Rossi’s time may not be accurate.\"\n\nThe founders of LetsRun.com publicly offered Rossi $100,000 if he could repeat his 3:11 performance within one year of the offer. Meanwhile, the organizers of the Via Marathon announced that they had taken several steps to verify runner participation and timing accuracy after the Rossi incident. Previously, the only timing mats at the Via marathon were at the start and finish line. The marathon committee added four on-course timing mats and video surveillance at several locations that Via would archive.\n\nOn June 25, 2016, Rossi was tailgating prior to a Kenny Chesney concert at Lincoln Financial Field in Philadelphia in Lot K, which had opened up to tailgaters at 10 am. At around 5 pm, when he was asked to \"move along\" several times by venue security, he refused, and when police arrived on the scene and made the same request, Rossi refused again, and was arrested for criminal trespass. At his court appearance two weeks later, a \"Philadelphia\" magazine reporter approached Rossi, who told reporters that he was not Mike Rossi. Rossi's identity was immediately confirmed by a court official on the scene.\n\nOn August 19, 2017, Rossi was arrested outside the Wells Fargo center after a Tim McGraw/Faith Hill concert for allegedly punching a 47-year-old woman. Rossi later posted to his Facebook page admitting he had \"a hellish past 2 1/2 years,\" and \"most of it I brought on myself and I take full responsibility.\"\n"}
{"id": "47159739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47159739", "title": "Mohamed Ould Khayar", "text": "Mohamed Ould Khayar\n\nMohamed Ould Khayar (born 26 May 1967) is a Mauritanian middle-distance runner\n\nKhayar competed at the 1986 World Junior Championships in Athletics in the 1500 metres, where he finished 11th in his heat so didn't advance to the next round. Two years later he competed in the 1988 Summer Olympics in Seoul, he finished 15th in his heat of the 1500 metres, so again he didn't advance to the next round.\n"}
{"id": "49203581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49203581", "title": "Montenegro women's national junior handball team", "text": "Montenegro women's national junior handball team\n\nThe Montenegro women's national under-21 handball team represents Montenegro in international under-21 handball competitions.\nThe current head coach is Nikola Petrović.\n\nThis list represents the Montenegro squad at the 2007 European Championship.\n\nGoalkeepers:\n\nWings:\n\nGuards:\n\nPivotmen:\n\nCoaching Staff:\n"}
{"id": "43569250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43569250", "title": "NBA Championship ring", "text": "NBA Championship ring\n\nThe NBA Championship ring is an annual award given by the National Basketball Association to the team that wins the NBA Finals.\nRings are presented to the team's players, coaches, and members of the executive front office. Red Auerbach has the most rings overall with 16. Phil Jackson has the most as coach and Bill Russell has the most as a player (11 each)\n\nNBA Championship rings have been handed out since the first NBA Finals in 1947. In the modern era, the rings are handed to the defending champions during the team's first home game each season.\n\nNBA Championship rings are silver or gold and include the following features:\n\n\nIn three NBA Finals, John Havlicek chose two wrist watches and a liqueur tray set as commemorative items.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13761482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13761482", "title": "Netball Singapore", "text": "Netball Singapore\n\nNetball Singapore, founded in 1962, is the national body for netball in Singapore. In 2002, the Association was named a merit sport by the Singapore Sports Council. In 1999, Netball Singapore established the Netball Super League.\n"}
{"id": "43639978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43639978", "title": "Olimpiku Stadium", "text": "Olimpiku Stadium\n\nOlimpiku Stadium () is a purpose-built stadium in Yrshek, Kashar, Tiranë, Albania. The stadium was reconstructed in 2011 with the investment coming from the club's president Kujtim Beqiri.\n"}
{"id": "22576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22576", "title": "Olympic Games", "text": "Olympic Games\n\nThe modern Olympic Games or Olympics () are leading international sporting events featuring summer and winter sports competitions in which thousands of athletes from around the world participate in a variety of competitions. The Olympic Games are considered the world's foremost sports competition with more than 200 nations participating. The Olympic Games are held every four years, with the Summer and Winter Games alternating by occurring every four years but two years apart.\n\nTheir creation was inspired by the ancient Olympic Games, which were held in Olympia, Greece, from the 8th century BC to the 4th century AD. Baron Pierre de Coubertin founded the International Olympic Committee (IOC) in 1894, leading to the first modern Games in Athens in 1896. The IOC is the governing body of the Olympic Movement, with the Olympic Charter defining its structure and authority.\n\nThe evolution of the Olympic Movement during the 20th and 21st centuries has resulted in several changes to the Olympic Games. Some of these adjustments include the creation of the Winter Olympic Games for snow and ice sports, the Paralympic Games for athletes with a disability, the Youth Olympic Games for athletes aged 14 to 18, the five Continental games (Pan American, African, Asian, European, and Pacific), and the World Games for sports that are not contested in the Olympic Games. The Deaflympics and Special Olympics are also endorsed by the IOC. The IOC has had to adapt to a variety of economic, political, and technological advancements. As a result, the Olympics has shifted away from pure amateurism, as envisioned by Coubertin, to allowing participation of professional athletes. The growing importance of mass media created the issue of corporate sponsorship and commercialisation of the Games. World wars led to the cancellation of the 1916, 1940, and 1944 Games. Large boycotts during the Cold War limited participation in the 1980 and 1984 Games. The latter, however, attracted 140 National Olympic Committees, which was a record at the time.\n\nThe Olympic Movement consists of international sports federations (IFs), National Olympic Committees (NOCs), and organising committees for each specific Olympic Games. As the decision-making body, the IOC is responsible for choosing the host city for each Games, and organises and funds the Games according to the Olympic Charter. The IOC also determines the Olympic programme, consisting of the sports to be contested at the Games. There are several Olympic rituals and symbols, such as the Olympic flag and torch, as well as the opening and closing ceremonies. Over 13,000 athletes compete at the Summer and Winter Olympic Games in 33 different sports and nearly 400 events. The first, second, and third-place finishers in each event receive Olympic medals: gold, silver, and bronze, respectively.\n\nThe Games have grown so much that nearly every nation is now represented. This growth has created numerous challenges and controversies, including boycotts, doping, bribery, and a terrorist attack in 1972. Every two years the Olympics and its media exposure provide unknown athletes with the chance to attain national and sometimes international fame. The Games also constitute an opportunity for the host city and country to showcase themselves to the world.\n\nThe Ancient Olympic Games were religious and athletic festivals held every four years at the sanctuary of Zeus in Olympia, Greece. Competition was among representatives of several city-states and kingdoms of Ancient Greece. These Games featured mainly athletic but also combat sports such as wrestling and the pankration, horse and chariot racing events. It has been widely written that during the Games, all conflicts among the participating city-states were postponed until the Games were finished. This cessation of hostilities was known as the Olympic peace or truce. This idea is a modern myth because the Greeks never suspended their wars. The truce did allow those religious pilgrims who were travelling to Olympia to pass through warring territories unmolested because they were protected by Zeus. The origin of the Olympics is shrouded in mystery and legend; one of the most popular myths identifies Heracles and his father Zeus as the progenitors of the Games. According to legend, it was Heracles who first called the Games \"Olympic\" and established the custom of holding them every four years. The myth continues that after Heracles completed his twelve labours, he built the Olympic Stadium as an honour to Zeus. Following its completion, he walked in a straight line for 200 steps and called this distance a \"stadion\" (, Latin: \"stadium\", \"stage\"), which later became a unit of distance. The most widely accepted inception date for the Ancient Olympics is 776 BC; this is based on inscriptions, found at Olympia, listing the winners of a footrace held every four years starting in 776 BC. The Ancient Games featured running events, a pentathlon (consisting of a jumping event, discus and javelin throws, a foot race, and wrestling), boxing, wrestling, pankration, and equestrian events. Tradition has it that Coroebus, a cook from the city of Elis, was the first Olympic champion.\n\nThe Olympics were of fundamental religious importance, featuring sporting events alongside ritual sacrifices honouring both Zeus (whose famous statue by Phidias stood in his temple at Olympia) and Pelops, divine hero and mythical king of Olympia. Pelops was famous for his chariot race with King Oenomaus of Pisatis. The winners of the events were admired and immortalised in poems and statues. The Games were held every four years, and this period, known as an Olympiad, was used by Greeks as one of their units of time measurement. The Games were part of a cycle known as the Panhellenic Games, which included the Pythian Games, the Nemean Games, and the Isthmian Games.\n\nThe Olympic Games reached their zenith in the 6th and 5th centuries BC, but then gradually declined in importance as the Romans gained power and influence in Greece. While there is no scholarly consensus as to when the Games officially ended, the most commonly held date is 393 AD, when the emperor Theodosius I decreed that all pagan cults and practices be eliminated. Another date commonly cited is 426 AD, when his successor, Theodosius II, ordered the destruction of all Greek temples.\n\nVarious uses of the term \"Olympic\" to describe athletic events in the modern era have been documented since the 17th century. The first such event was the Cotswold Games or \"Cotswold Olimpick Games\", an annual meeting near Chipping Campden, England, involving various sports. It was first organised by the lawyer Robert Dover between 1612 and 1642, with several later celebrations leading up to the present day. The British Olympic Association, in its bid for the 2012 Olympic Games in London, mentioned these games as \"the first stirrings of Britain's Olympic beginnings\".\n\n\"L'Olympiade de la République\", a national Olympic festival held annually from 1796 to 1798 in Revolutionary France also attempted to emulate the ancient Olympic Games. The competition included several disciplines from the ancient Greek Olympics. The 1796 Games also marked the introduction of the metric system into sport.\n\nIn 1834 and 1836 olympic games was held in Ramlösa (Sweden) and an additional in Stockholm (Sweden) 1843, all organized by Gustaf Johan Schartau and others. At most 25 000 spectators saw the games. (More information can be found on the Swedish language wiki page .)\n\nIn 1850 an Olympian Class was started by William Penny Brookes at Much Wenlock, in Shropshire, England. In 1859, Brookes changed the name to the Wenlock Olympian Games. This annual sports festival continues to this day. The Wenlock Olympian Society was founded by Brookes on 15 November 1860.\n\nBetween 1862 and 1867, Liverpool held an annual Grand Olympic Festival. Devised by John Hulley and Charles Melly, these games were the first to be wholly amateur in nature and international in outlook, although only 'gentlemen amateurs' could compete. The programme of the first modern Olympiad in Athens in 1896 was almost identical to that of the Liverpool Olympics. In 1865 Hulley, Brookes and E.G. Ravenstein founded the National Olympian Association in Liverpool, a forerunner of the British Olympic Association. Its articles of foundation provided the framework for the International Olympic Charter. In 1866, a national Olympic Games in Great Britain was organised at London's Crystal Palace.\n\nGreek interest in reviving the Olympic Games began with the Greek War of Independence from the Ottoman Empire in 1821. It was first proposed by poet and newspaper editor Panagiotis Soutsos in his poem \"Dialogue of the Dead\", published in 1833. Evangelos Zappas, a wealthy Greek-Romanian philanthropist, first wrote to King Otto of Greece, in 1856, offering to fund a permanent revival of the Olympic Games. Zappas sponsored the first Olympic Games in 1859, which was held in an Athens city square. Athletes participated from Greece and the Ottoman Empire. Zappas funded the restoration of the ancient Panathenaic Stadium so that it could host all future Olympic Games.\n\nThe stadium hosted Olympics in 1870 and 1875. Thirty thousand spectators attended that Games in 1870, though no official attendance records are available for the 1875 Games. In 1890, after attending the Olympian Games of the Wenlock Olympian Society, Baron Pierre de Coubertin was inspired to found the International Olympic Committee (IOC). Coubertin built on the ideas and work of Brookes and Zappas with the aim of establishing internationally rotating Olympic Games that would occur every four years. He presented these ideas during the first Olympic Congress of the newly created International Olympic Committee. This meeting was held from 16 to 23 June 1894, at the University of Paris. On the last day of the Congress, it was decided that the first Olympic Games to come under the auspices of the IOC would take place in Athens in 1896. The IOC elected the Greek writer Demetrius Vikelas as its first president.\n\nThe first Games held under the auspices of the IOC was hosted in the Panathenaic Stadium in Athens in 1896. The Games brought together 14 nations and 241 athletes who competed in 43 events. Zappas and his cousin Konstantinos Zappas had left the Greek government a trust to fund future Olympic Games. This trust was used to help finance the 1896 Games. George Averoff contributed generously for the refurbishment of the stadium in preparation for the Games. The Greek government also provided funding, which was expected to be recouped through the sale of tickets and from the sale of the first Olympic commemorative stamp set.\n\nGreek officials and the public were enthusiastic about the experience of hosting an Olympic Games. This feeling was shared by many of the athletes, who even demanded that Athens be the permanent Olympic host city. The IOC intended for subsequent Games to be rotated to various host cities around the world. The second Olympics was held in Paris.\n\nAfter the success of the 1896 Games, the Olympics entered a period of stagnation that threatened their survival. The Olympic Games held at the Paris Exposition in 1900 and the Louisiana Purchase Exposition at St. Louis in 1904 were side shows. The Games in Paris did not have a stadium, but were notable for being the first time women took part in the Games. When the St. Louis Games were celebrated roughly 650 athletes participated, but 580 were from the United States. The homogeneous nature of these celebrations was a low point for the Olympic Movement. The Games rebounded when the 1906 Intercalated Games (so-called because they were the second Games held within the third Olympiad) were held in Athens. These Games were, but are not now, officially recognised by the IOC and no Intercalated Games have been held since. The Games attracted a broad international field of participants and generated great public interest. This marked the beginning of a rise in both the popularity and the size of the Olympics.\n\nThe Winter Olympics was created to feature snow and ice sports that were logistically impossible to hold during the Summer Games. Figure skating (in 1908 and 1920) and ice hockey (in 1920) were featured as Olympic events at the Summer Olympics. The IOC desired to expand this list of sports to encompass other winter activities. At the 1921 Olympic Congress in Lausanne, it was decided to hold a winter version of the Olympic Games. A winter sports week (it was actually 11 days) was held in 1924 in Chamonix, France, in connection with the Paris Games held three months later; this event became the first Winter Olympic Games. Although it was intended that the same country host both the Winter and Summer Games in a given year, this idea was quickly abandoned. The IOC mandated that the Winter Games be celebrated every four years on the same year as their summer counterpart. This tradition was upheld until the 1992 Games in Albertville, France; after that, beginning with the 1994 Games, the Winter Olympics were held every four years, two years after each Summer Olympics.\n\nIn 1948, Sir Ludwig Guttmann, determined to promote the rehabilitation of soldiers after World War II, organised a multi-sport event between several hospitals to coincide with the 1948 London Olympics. Guttmann's event, known then as the Stoke Mandeville Games, became an annual sports festival. Over the next twelve years, Guttmann and others continued their efforts to use sports as an avenue to healing. For the 1960 Olympic Games in Rome, Guttmann brought 400 athletes to compete in the \"Parallel Olympics\", which became known as the first Paralympics. Since then, the Paralympics have been held in every Olympic year. Since the 1988 Summer Olympics in Seoul, South Korea, the host city for the Olympics has also played host to the Paralympics. In 2001 the International Olympic Committee (IOC) and the International Paralympic Committee (IPC) signed an agreement guaranteeing that host cities would be contracted to manage both the Olympic and Paralympic Games. The agreement came into effect at the 2008 Summer Games in Beijing, and the 2010 Winter Games in Vancouver. Chairman of the London organising committee, Lord Coe, said about the 2012 Summer Paralympics and Olympics in London that,\n\nIn 2010, the Olympic Games were complemented by the Youth Games, which give athletes between the ages of 14 and 18 the chance to compete. The Youth Olympic Games were conceived by IOC president Jacques Rogge in 2001 and approved during the 119th Congress of the IOC. The first Summer Youth Games were held in Singapore from 14–26 August 2010, while the inaugural Winter Games were hosted in Innsbruck, Austria, two years later. These Games will be shorter than the senior Games; the summer version will last twelve days, while the winter version will last nine days. The IOC allows 3,500 athletes and 875 officials to participate at the Summer Youth Games, and 970 athletes and 580 officials at the Winter Youth Games. The sports to be contested will coincide with those scheduled for the senior Games, however there will be variations on the sports including mixed NOC and mixed gender teams as well as a reduced number of disciplines and events.\n\nFrom 241 participants representing 14 nations in 1896, the Games have grown to about 10,500 competitors from 204 nations at the 2012 Summer Olympics. The scope and scale of the Winter Olympics is smaller. For example, Sochi hosted 2,873 athletes from 88 nations competing in 98 events during the 2014 Winter Olympics. During the Games most athletes and officials are housed in the Olympic Village. This village is intended to be a self-contained home for all the Olympic participants, and is furnished with cafeterias, health clinics, and locations for religious expression.\n\nThe IOC allowed the formation of National Olympic Committees representing nations that did not meet the strict requirements for political sovereignty that other international organisations demand. As a result, colonies and dependencies are permitted to compete at Olympic Games. Examples of this include territories such as Puerto Rico, Bermuda, and Hong Kong, all of which compete as separate nations despite being legally a part of another country. The current version of the Charter allows for the establishment of new National Olympic Committees to represent nations which qualify as \"an independent State recognised by the international community\". Therefore, it did not allow the formation of National Olympic Committees for Sint Maarten and Curaçao when they gained the same constitutional status as Aruba in 2010, although the IOC had recognised the Aruban Olympic Committee in 1986. After 2012, Netherlands Antilles athletes can choose to represent either the Netherlands or Aruba.\n\nThe Oxford Olympics Study 2016 found that sports-related costs for the Summer Games since 1960 are on average US$5.2 billion and for the Winter Games $3.1 billion. This does not include wider infrastructure costs like roads, urban rail, and airports, which often cost as much or more than the sports-related costs. The most expensive Summer Games are Beijing at US$40-44 billion and the most expensive Winter Games are Sochi 2014 at US$51 billion. As of 2016, costs per athlete are on average US$599,000 for the Summer Games and $1.3 million for the Winter Games. For London 2012, cost per athlete was $1.4 million; for Sochi 2014, $7.9 million.\n\nWhere ambitious construction for the 1976 games in Montreal and 1980 games in Moscow had saddled organisers with expenses greatly in excess of revenues, 1984 host Los Angeles strictly controlled expenses by using existing facilities except a swim stadium and a velodrome that were paid for by corporate sponsors. The Olympic Committee led by Peter Ueberroth used some of the profits to endow the LA84 Foundation to promote youth sports in Southern California, educate coaches and maintain a sports library. The 1984 Summer Olympics are often considered the most financially successful modern Olympics.\n\nBudget overruns are common for the Games. Average overrun for Games since 1960 is 156% in real terms, which means that actual costs turned out to be on average 2.56 times the budget that was estimated at the time of winning the bid to host the Games. Montreal 1976 had the highest cost overrun for Summer Games, and for any Games, at 720%; Lake Placid 1980 had the highest cost overrun for Winter Games, at 324%. London 2012 had a cost overrun of 76%, Sochi 2014 of 289%.\n\nMany economists are sceptical about the economic benefits of hosting the Olympic Games, emphasising that such \"mega-events\" often have large costs while yielding relatively few tangible benefits in the long run. Conversely hosting (or even bidding for) the Olympics appears to increase the host country's exports, as the host or candidate country sends a signal about trade openness when bidding to host the Games. Moreover, research suggests that hosting the Summer Olympics has a strong positive effect on the philanthropic contributions of corporations headquartered in the host city, which seems to benefit the local nonprofit sector. This positive effect begins in the years leading up to the Games and might persist for several years afterwards, although not permanently. This finding suggests that hosting the Olympics might create opportunities for cities to influence local corporations in ways that benefit the local nonprofit sector and civil society.\n\nThe Games have also had significant negative effects on host communities; for example, the Centre on Housing Rights and Evictions reports that the Olympics displaced more than two million people over two decades, often disproportionately affecting disadvantaged groups. The 2014 Winter Olympics in Sochi were the most expensive Olympic Games in history, costing in excess of US$50 billion. According to a report by the European Bank for Reconstruction and Development that was released at the time of the games, this cost will not boost Russia's national economy, but may attract business to Sochi and the southern Krasnodar region of Russia in the future as a result of improved services. But by December 2014, \"The Guardian\" stated that Sochi \"now feels like a ghost town\", citing the spread-out nature of the stadiums and arenas, the still-unfinished construction, and the overall effects of Russia's political and economic turmoil. Furthermore, at least four cities withdrew their bids for the 2022 Winter Olympics, citing the high costs or the lack of local support, resulting in only a two-city race between Almaty, Kazakhstan and Beijing, China. Thus in July 2016, \"The Guardian\" stated that the biggest threat to the future of the Olympics is that very few cities want to host them. Bidding for the 2024 Summer Olympics also became a two-city race between Paris and Los Angeles, so the IOC took the unusual step of simultaneously awarding both the 2024 Games to Paris and the 2028 Games to Los Angeles.\n\nThe Olympic Movement encompasses a large number of national and international sporting organisations and federations, recognised media partners, as well as athletes, officials, judges, and every other person and institution that agrees to abide by the rules of the Olympic Charter. As the umbrella organisation of the Olympic Movement, the International Olympic Committee (IOC) is responsible for selecting the host city, overseeing the planning of the Olympic Games, updating and approving the sports program, and negotiating sponsorship and broadcasting rights.\n\nThe Olympic Movement is made of three major elements:\n\nFrench and English are the official languages of the Olympic Movement. The other language used at each Olympic Games is the language of the host country (or languages, if a country has more than one official language apart from French or English). Every proclamation (such as the announcement of each country during the parade of nations in the opening ceremony) is spoken in these three (or more) languages, or the main two depending on whether the host country is an English or French speaking country: French is always spoken first, followed by an English translation, and then the dominant language of the host nation (when this is not English or French).\n\nThe IOC has often been criticised for being an intractable organisation, with several members on the committee for life. The presidential terms of Avery Brundage and Juan Antonio Samaranch were especially controversial. Brundage was president for over 20 years, and during his tenure he protected the Olympics from political involvement and the influence of advertising. He was accused of both racism, for resisting exclusion of apartheid South Africa, and antisemitism. Under the Samaranch presidency, the office was accused of both nepotism and corruption. Samaranch's ties with the Franco regime in Spain were also a source of criticism.\n\nIn 1998, it was reported that several IOC members had taken bribes from members of the Salt Lake City bid committee for the hosting of the 2002 Winter Olympics. Although nothing strictly illegal had been done, it was felt that the acceptance of the gifts was morally dubious. The IOC pursued an investigation which led to the resignation of four members and expulsion of six others. The scandal set off further reforms that changed the way host cities were selected, to avoid similar cases in the future.\n\nThe 1999, it was reported that the Nagano Olympic bid committee had spent approximately $14 million to entertain the 62 IOC members and many of their companions. The precise figures are unknown since Nagano, after the IOC asked that the entertainment expenditures not be made public, destroyed the financial records.\n\nA BBC documentary entitled \"Panorama: Buying the Games\", aired in August 2004, investigated the taking of bribes in the bidding process for the 2012 Summer Olympics. The documentary claimed it was possible to bribe IOC members into voting for a particular candidate city. After being narrowly defeated in their bid for the 2012 Summer Games, Parisian mayor Bertrand Delanoë specifically accused the British prime minister Tony Blair and the London Bid Committee (headed by former Olympic champion Sebastian Coe) of breaking the bid rules. He cited French president Jacques Chirac as a witness; Chirac gave guarded interviews regarding his involvement. The allegation was never fully explored. The Turin bid for the 2006 Winter Olympics was also shrouded in controversy. A prominent IOC member, Marc Hodler, strongly connected with the rival bid of Sion, Switzerland, alleged bribery of IOC officials by members of the Turin Organising Committee. These accusations led to a wide-ranging investigation. The allegations also served to sour many IOC members against Sion's bid and potentially helped Turin to capture the host city nomination.\n\nIn July 2012, the Anti-Defamation League called the continued refusal by the International Olympic Committee to hold a moment of silence at the opening ceremony for the eleven Israeli athletes killed by Palestinian terrorists at the 1972 Munich Olympics, \"a continuing stubborn insensitivity and callousness to the memory of the murdered Israeli athletes.\"\n\nThe Olympics have been commercialised to various degrees since the initial 1896 Summer Olympics in Athens, when a number of companies paid for advertising, including Kodak. In 1908, Oxo, Odol mouthwash and Indian Foot Powder became official sponsors of the London Olympic Games. Coca-Cola sponsored the 1928 Summer Olympics, and has subsequently remained a sponsor to the current time. Before the IOC took control of sponsorship, national organising committees were responsible for negotiating their own contracts for sponsorship and the use of the Olympic symbols.\n\nThe IOC originally resisted funding by corporate sponsors. It was not until the retirement of IOC president Avery Brundage, in 1972, that the IOC began to explore the potential of the television medium and the lucrative advertising markets available to them. Under the leadership of Juan Antonio Samaranch the Games began to shift toward international sponsors who sought to link their products to the Olympic brand. More than half of the Olympic committee's global sponsors are American companies.\n\nDuring the first half of the 20th century the IOC ran on a small budget. As president of the IOC from 1952 to 1972, Avery Brundage rejected all attempts to link the Olympics with commercial interest. Brundage believed the lobby of corporate interests would unduly impact the IOC's decision-making. Brundage's resistance to this revenue stream meant the IOC left organising committees to negotiate their own sponsorship contracts and use the Olympic symbols. When Brundage retired the IOC had US$2 million in assets; eight years later the IOC coffers had swelled to US$45 million. This was primarily due to a shift in ideology toward expansion of the Games through corporate sponsorship and the sale of television rights. When Juan Antonio Samaranch was elected IOC president in 1980 his desire was to make the IOC financially independent.\n\nThe 1984 Summer Olympics became a watershed moment in Olympic history. The Los Angeles-based organising committee, led by Peter Ueberroth, was able to generate a surplus of US$225 million, which was an unprecedented amount at that time. The organising committee had been able to create such a surplus in part by selling exclusive sponsorship rights to select companies. The IOC sought to gain control of these sponsorship rights. Samaranch helped to establish The Olympic Programme (TOP) in 1985, in order to create an Olympic brand. Membership in TOP was, and is, very exclusive and expensive. Fees cost US$50 million for a four-year membership. Members of TOP received exclusive global advertising rights for their product category, and use of the Olympic symbol, the interlocking rings, in their publications and advertisements.\n\nThe 1936 Summer Olympics in Berlin were the first Games to be broadcast on television, though only to local audiences. The 1956 Winter Olympics were the first internationally televised Olympic Games, and the following Winter Games had their broadcasting rights sold for the first time to specialised television broadcasting networks—CBS paid US$394,000 for the American rights, and the European Broadcasting Union (EBU) allocated US$660,000. In the following decades the Olympics became one of the ideological fronts of the Cold War. Superpowers jockeyed for political supremacy, and the IOC wanted to take advantage of this heightened interest via the broadcast medium. The sale of broadcast rights enabled the IOC to increase the exposure of the Olympic Games, thereby generating more interest, which in turn created more appeal to advertisers time on television. This cycle allowed the IOC to charge ever-increasing fees for those rights. For example, CBS paid US$375 million for the American broadcast rights of the 1998 Nagano Games, while NBC spent US$3.5 billion for the American rights of all the Olympic Games from 2000 to 2012. In 2011, NBC agreed to a $4.38 billion contract with the International Olympic Committee to broadcast the Olympics through the 2020 games, the most expensive television rights deal in Olympic history. NBC then agreed to a $7.75 billion contract extension on May 7, 2014, to air the Olympics through the 2032 games. NBC also acquired the American television rights to the Youth Olympic Games, beginning in 2014, and the Paralympic Games for the 2014 and 2016 editions. NBC is one of the major sources of revenue for the IOC.\n\nViewership increased exponentially from the 1960s until the end of the century. This was due to the use of satellites to broadcast live television worldwide in 1964, and the introduction of colour television in 1968. Global audience estimates for the 1968 Mexico City Games was 600 million, whereas at the Los Angeles Games of 1984, the audience numbers had increased to 900 million; that number swelled to 3.5 billion by the 1992 Summer Olympics in Barcelona. However, at the 2000 Summer Games in Sydney, NBC drew the lowest U.S. ratings for any Summer or Winter Olympics since 1968. This was attributed to two factors: one was the increased competition from cable channels, the second was the internet, which was able to display results and video in real time. Television companies were still relying on tape-delayed content, which was becoming outdated in the information era. A drop in ratings meant that television studios had to give away free advertising time. With such high costs charged to broadcast the Games, the added pressure of the internet, and increased competition from cable, the television lobby demanded concessions from the IOC to boost ratings. The IOC responded by making a number of changes to the Olympic program. At the Summer Games, the gymnastics competition was expanded from seven to nine nights, and a Champions Gala was added to draw greater interest. The IOC also expanded the swimming and diving programs, both popular sports with a broad base of television viewers. Finally, the American television lobby, namely NBC, was able to dictate when certain events were held so that they could be broadcast live during prime time in the United States, such as swimming and figure skating. The results of these efforts were mixed: ratings for the 2006 Winter Games were significantly lower than those for the 2002 Games, while there was a sharp increase in viewership for the 2008 Summer Olympics, and the 2012 Summer Games, where live broadcast in prime time on NBC were little, became the most watched event in US television history.\nThe sale of the Olympic brand has been controversial. The argument is that the Games have become indistinguishable from any other commercialised sporting spectacle. Specific criticism was levelled at the IOC for market saturation during the 1996 Atlanta and 2000 Sydney Games. The cities were awash in corporations and merchants attempting to sell Olympic-related wares. The IOC indicated that they would address this to prevent spectacles of over-marketing at future Games. Another criticism is that the Games are funded by host cities and national governments; the IOC incurs none of the cost, yet controls all the rights and profits from the Olympic symbols. The IOC also takes a percentage of all sponsorship and broadcast income. Host cities continue to compete ardently for the right to host the Games, even though there is no certainty that they will earn back their investments. Research has shown that trade is around 30 percent higher for countries that have hosted the Olympics.\n\nThe Olympic Movement uses symbols to represent the ideals embodied in the Olympic Charter. The Olympic symbol, better known as the Olympic rings, consists of five intertwined rings and represents the unity of the five inhabited continents (Africa, America, Asia, Australia and Europe). The coloured version of the rings—blue, yellow, black, green, and red—over a white field forms the Olympic flag. These colours were chosen because every nation had at least one of them on its national flag. The flag was adopted in 1914 but flown for the first time only at the 1920 Summer Olympics in Antwerp, Belgium. It has since been hoisted during each celebration of the Games.\n\nThe Olympic motto, \"Citius, Altius, Fortius\", a Latin expression meaning \"Faster, Higher, Stronger\" was proposed by Pierre de Coubertin in 1894 and has been official since 1924. The motto was coined by Coubertin's friend, the Dominican priest Henri Didon OP, for a Paris youth gathering of 1891.\n\nCoubertin's Olympic ideals are expressed in the Olympic creed:\n\nMonths before each Games, the Olympic Flame is lit in Olympia in a ceremony that reflects ancient Greek rituals. A female performer, acting as a priestess, ignites a torch by placing it inside a parabolic mirror which focuses the sun's rays; she then lights the torch of the first relay bearer, thus initiating the Olympic torch relay that will carry the flame to the host city's Olympic stadium, where it plays an important role in the opening ceremony. Though the flame has been an Olympic symbol since 1928, the torch relay was only introduced at the 1936 Summer Games to promote the Third Reich.\n\nThe Olympic mascot, an animal or human figure representing the cultural heritage of the host country, was introduced in 1968. It has played an important part of the Games' identity promotion since the 1980 Summer Olympics, when the Russian bear cub Misha reached international stardom. The mascot of the Summer Olympics in London was named Wenlock after the town of Much Wenlock in Shropshire. Much Wenlock still hosts the Wenlock Olympian Games, which were an inspiration to Pierre de Coubertin for the Olympic Games.\n\nAs mandated by the Olympic Charter, various elements frame the opening ceremony of the Olympic Games. This ceremony takes place before the events have occurred. Most of these rituals were established at the 1920 Summer Olympics in Antwerp. The ceremony typically starts with the hoisting of the host country's flag and a performance of its national anthem. The host nation then presents artistic displays of music, singing, dance, and theatre representative of its culture. The artistic presentations have grown in scale and complexity as successive hosts attempt to provide a ceremony that outlasts its predecessor's in terms of memorability. The opening ceremony of the Beijing Games reportedly cost $100 million, with much of the cost incurred in the artistic segment.\n\nAfter the artistic portion of the ceremony, the athletes parade into the stadium grouped by nation. Greece is traditionally the first nation to enter in order to honour the origins of the Olympics. Nations then enter the stadium alphabetically according to the host country's chosen language, with the host country's athletes being the last to enter. During the 2004 Summer Olympics, which was hosted in Athens, Greece, the Greek flag entered the stadium first, while the Greek delegation entered last. Speeches are given, formally opening the Games. Finally, the Olympic torch is brought into the stadium and passed on until it reaches the final torch carrier, often a successful Olympic athlete from the host nation, who lights the Olympic flame in the stadium's cauldron.\n\nThe closing ceremony of the Olympic Games takes place after all sporting events have concluded. Flag-bearers from each participating country enter the stadium, followed by the athletes who enter together, without any national distinction. Three national flags are hoisted while the corresponding national anthems are played: the flag of the current host country; the flag of Greece, to honour the birthplace of the Olympic Games; and the flag of the country hosting the next Summer or Winter Olympic Games. The president of the organising committee and the IOC president make their closing speeches, the Games are officially closed, and the Olympic flame is extinguished. In what is known as the Antwerp Ceremony, the mayor of the city that organised the Games transfers a special Olympic flag to the president of the IOC, who then passes it on to the mayor of the city hosting the next Olympic Games. The next host nation then also briefly introduces itself with artistic displays of dance and theatre representative of its culture.\n\nAs is customary, the last medal presentation of the Games is held as part of the closing ceremony. Typically, the men's marathon medals are presented at the Summer Olympics, while the cross-country skiing mass start medals are awarded at the Winter Olympics.\n\nA medal ceremony is held after each Olympic event is concluded. The winner, second and third-place competitors or teams stand on top of a three-tiered rostrum to be awarded their respective medals. After the medals are given out by an IOC member, the national flags of the three medallists are raised while the national anthem of the gold medallist's country plays. Volunteering citizens of the host country also act as hosts during the medal ceremonies, as they aid the officials who present the medals and act as flag-bearers. While in the Summer Olympics this ceremony is held on the ground where the event is played, in the Winter Games it is usually held in a special \"plaza\".\n\nThe Olympic Games programme consists of 35 sports, 30 disciplines and 408 events. For example, wrestling is a Summer Olympic sport, comprising two disciplines: Greco-Roman and Freestyle. It is further broken down into fourteen events for men and four events for women, each representing a different weight class. The Summer Olympics programme includes 26 sports, while the Winter Olympics programme features 15 sports. Athletics, swimming, fencing, and artistic gymnastics are the only summer sports that have never been absent from the Olympic programme. Cross-country skiing, figure skating, ice hockey, Nordic combined, ski jumping, and speed skating have been featured at every Winter Olympics programme since its inception in 1924. Current Olympic sports, like badminton, basketball, and volleyball, first appeared on the programme as demonstration sports, and were later promoted to full Olympic sports. Some sports that were featured in earlier Games were later dropped from the programme.\n\nOlympic sports are governed by international sports federations (IFs) recognised by the IOC as the global supervisors of those sports. There are 35 federations represented at the IOC. There are sports recognised by the IOC that are not included on the Olympic program. These sports are not considered Olympic sports, but they can be promoted to this status during a programme revision that occurs in the first IOC session following a celebration of the Olympic Games. During such revisions, sports can be excluded or included in the programme on the basis of a two-thirds majority vote of the members of the IOC. There are recognised sports that have never been on an Olympic programme in any capacity, including chess and surfing.\n\nIn October and November 2004, the IOC established an Olympic Programme Commission, which was tasked with reviewing the sports on the Olympic programme and all non-Olympic recognised sports. The goal was to apply a systematic approach to establishing the Olympic programme for each celebration of the Games. The commission formulated seven criteria to judge whether a sport should be included on the Olympic programme. These criteria are history and tradition of the sport, universality, popularity of the sport, image, athletes' health, development of the International Federation that governs the sport, and costs of holding the sport. From this study five recognised sports emerged as candidates for inclusion at the 2012 Summer Olympics: golf, karate, rugby union, roller sports and squash. These sports were reviewed by the IOC Executive Board and then referred to the General Session in Singapore in July 2005. Of the five sports recommended for inclusion only two were selected as finalists: karate and squash. Neither sport attained the required two-thirds vote and consequently they were not promoted to the Olympic programme. In October 2009 the IOC voted to instate golf and rugby union as Olympic sports for the 2016 and 2020 Summer Olympic Games.\n\nThe 114th IOC Session, in 2002, limited the Summer Games programme to a maximum of 28 sports, 301 events, and 10,500 athletes. Three years later, at the 117th IOC Session, the first major programme revision was performed, which resulted in the exclusion of baseball and softball from the official programme of the 2012 London Games. Since there was no agreement in the promotion of two other sports, the 2012 programme featured just 26 sports. The 2016 and 2020 Games will return to the maximum of 28 sports given the addition of rugby and golf.\n\nThe ethos of the aristocracy as exemplified in the English public school greatly influenced Pierre de Coubertin. The public schools subscribed to the belief that sport formed an important part of education, an attitude summed up in the saying \"mens sana in corpore sano\", a sound mind in a sound body. In this ethos, a gentleman was one who became an all-rounder, not the best at one specific thing. There was also a prevailing concept of fairness, in which practising or training was considered tantamount to cheating. Those who practised a sport professionally were considered to have an unfair advantage over those who practised it merely as a hobby.\n\nThe exclusion of professionals caused several controversies throughout the history of the modern Olympics. The 1912 Olympic pentathlon and decathlon champion Jim Thorpe was stripped of his medals when it was discovered that he had played semi-professional baseball before the Olympics. His medals were posthumously restored by the IOC in 1983 on compassionate grounds. Swiss and Austrian skiers boycotted the 1936 Winter Olympics in support of their skiing teachers, who were not allowed to compete because they earned money with their sport and were thus considered professionals.\n\nAs class structure evolved through the 20th century, the definition of the amateur athlete as an aristocratic gentleman became outdated. The advent of the state-sponsored \"full-time amateur athlete\" of the Eastern Bloc countries further eroded the ideology of the pure amateur, as it put the self-financed amateurs of the Western countries at a disadvantage. Beginning in the 1970s, amateurism requirements were gradually phased out of the Olympic Charter. After the 1988 Games, the IOC decided to make all professional athletes eligible for the Olympics, subject to the approval of the IFs.\n\nNear the end of the 1960s, the Canadian Amateur Hockey Association (CAHA) felt their amateur players could no longer be competitive against the Soviet team's full-time athletes and the other constantly improving European teams. They pushed for the ability to use players from professional leagues but met opposition from the IIHF and IOC. Avery Brundage, president of the IOC from 1952 to 1972, was opposed to the idea of amateur and professional players competing together. At the IIHF Congress in 1969, the IIHF decided to allow Canada to use nine non-NHL professional hockey players at the 1970 World Championships in Montreal and Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada. The decision was reversed in January 1970 after Brundage said that ice hockey's status as an Olympic sport would be in jeopardy if the change was made. In response, Canada withdrew from international ice hockey competition and officials stated that they would not return until \"open competition\" was instituted. Günther Sabetzki became president of the IIHF in 1975 and helped to resolve the dispute with the CAHA. In 1976, the IIHF agreed to allow \"open competition\" between all players in the World Championships. However, NHL players were still not allowed to play in the Olympics until 1988, because of the IOC's amateur-only policy.\n\nGreece, Australia, France, and United Kingdom are the only countries to be represented at every Olympic Games since their inception in 1896. While countries sometimes miss an Olympics due to a lack of qualified athletes, some choose to boycott a celebration of the Games for various reasons. The Olympic Council of Ireland boycotted the 1936 Berlin Games, because the IOC insisted its team needed to be restricted to the Irish Free State rather than representing the entire island of Ireland.\n\nThere were three boycotts of the 1956 Melbourne Olympics: the Netherlands, Spain, and Switzerland refused to attend because of the repression of the Hungarian uprising by the Soviet Union, but did send an equestrian delegation to Stockholm; Cambodia, Egypt, Iraq, and Lebanon boycotted the Games because of the Suez Crisis; and China (the \"People's Republic of China\") boycotted the Games because Taiwan was allowed to compete in the Games as the \"Republic of China\".\n\nIn 1972 and 1976 a large number of African countries threatened the IOC with a boycott to force them to ban South Africa and Rhodesia, because of their segregationist regimes. New Zealand was also one of the African boycott targets, because its national rugby union team had toured apartheid-ruled South Africa. The IOC conceded in the first two cases, but refused to ban New Zealand on the grounds that rugby was not an Olympic sport. Fulfilling their threat, twenty African countries were joined by Guyana and Iraq in a withdrawal from the Montreal Games, after a few of their athletes had already competed.\n\nTaiwan was excluded from the 1976 games by order of Pierre Elliott Trudeau, the prime minister of Canada. Trudeau's action was widely condemned as having brought shame on Canada for having succumbed to political pressure to keep the delegation from the Republic of China (ROC) from competing under that name. The ROC refused a proposed compromise that would have still allowed them to use the ROC flag and anthem as long as the name was changed. Taiwan did not participate again until 1984, when it returned under the name of Chinese Taipei and with a special flag and anthem.\n\nIn 1980 and 1984, the Cold War opponents boycotted each other's Games. The United States and sixty-five other countries boycotted the Moscow Olympics in 1980 because of the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan. This boycott reduced the number of nations participating to 80, the lowest number since 1956. The Soviet Union and 15 other nations countered by boycotting the Los Angeles Olympics of 1984, contending that they could not guarantee the safety of their athletes. Although a boycott led by the Soviet Union depleted the field in certain sports, 140 National Olympic Committees took part, which was a record at the time. The fact that Romania, a Warsaw Pact country, opted to compete despite Soviet demands led to a warm reception of the Romanian team by the United States. When the Romanian athletes entered during the opening ceremonies, they received a standing ovation from the spectators, which comprised mostly U.S. citizens. The boycotting nations of the Eastern Bloc staged their own alternate event, the Friendship Games, in July and August.\n\nThere had been growing calls for boycotts of Chinese goods and the 2008 Olympics in Beijing in protest of China's human rights record, and in response to Tibetan disturbances. Ultimately, no nation supported a boycott. In August 2008, the government of Georgia called for a boycott of the 2014 Winter Olympics, set to be held in Sochi, Russia, in response to Russia's participation in the 2008 South Ossetia war.\n\nThe Olympic Games have been used as a platform to promote political ideologies almost from its inception. Nazi Germany wished to portray the National Socialist Party as benevolent and peace-loving when they hosted the 1936 Games, though they used the Games to display Aryan superiority. Germany was the most successful nation at the Games, which did much to support their allegations of Aryan supremacy, but notable victories by African American Jesse Owens, who won four gold medals, and Hungarian Jew Ibolya Csák, blunted the message. The Soviet Union did not participate until the 1952 Summer Olympics in Helsinki. Instead, starting in 1928, the Soviets organised an international sports event called Spartakiads. During the interwar period of the 1920s and 1930s, communist and socialist organisations in several countries, including the United States, attempted to counter what they called the \"bourgeois\" Olympics with the Workers Olympics. It was not until the 1956 Summer Games that the Soviets emerged as a sporting superpower and, in doing so, took full advantage of the publicity that came with winning at the Olympics. Soviet Union's success might be attributed to a heavy state's investment in sports to fulfill its political agenda on an international stage.\n\nIndividual athletes have also used the Olympic stage to promote their own political agenda. At the 1968 Summer Olympics in Mexico City, two American track and field athletes, Tommie Smith and John Carlos, who finished first and third in the 200 metres, performed the Black Power salute on the victory stand. The second-place finisher, Peter Norman of Australia, wore an Olympic Project for Human Rights badge in support of Smith and Carlos. In response to the protest, IOC president Avery Brundage told the United States Olympic Committee (USOC) to either send the two athletes home or withdraw the track and field team. The USOC opted for the former. During the same Olympics, Czechoslovakian gymnast Věra Čáslavská announced her protest to the Soviet-led invasion of her home country after controversially receiving silver on the beam and a shared gold on the floor. During the Soviet anthem, Čáslavská turned her head down and to the right of the Soviet flag in order to make a statement over the invasion and the Soviet influence of the sport of gymnastics. Returning home, Čáslavská was made an outcast by the Soviet government and was banned from competition and travelling.\n\nCurrently, the government of Iran has taken steps to avoid any competition between its athletes and those from Israel. An Iranian judoka, Arash Miresmaeili, did not compete in a match against an Israeli during the 2004 Summer Olympics. Although he was officially disqualified for being overweight, Miresmaeli was awarded US$125,000 in prize money by the Iranian government, an amount paid to all Iranian gold medal winners. He was officially cleared of intentionally avoiding the bout, but his receipt of the prize money raised suspicion.\n\nIn the early 20th century, many Olympic athletes began using drugs to improve their athletic abilities. For example, in 1904, Thomas Hicks, a gold medallist in the marathon, was given strychnine by his coach. The only Olympic death linked to performance enhancing occurred at the 1960 Rome games. A Danish cyclist, Knud Enemark Jensen, fell from his bicycle and later died. A coroner's inquiry found that he was under the influence of amphetamines. By the mid-1960s, sports federations started to ban the use of performance-enhancing drugs; in 1967 the IOC followed suit.\n\nAccording to British journalist Andrew Jennings, a KGB colonel stated that the agency's officers had posed as anti-doping authorities from the International Olympic Committee to undermine doping tests and that Soviet athletes were \"rescued with [these] tremendous efforts\". On the topic of the 1980 Summer Olympics, a 1989 Australian study said \"There is hardly a medal winner at the Moscow Games, certainly not a gold medal winner, who is not on one sort of drug or another: usually several kinds. The Moscow Games might as well have been called the Chemists' Games.\"\n\nDocuments obtained in 2016 revealed the Soviet Union's plans for a statewide doping system in track and field in preparation for the 1984 Summer Olympics in Los Angeles. Dated prior to the country's decision to boycott the Games, the document detailed the existing steroids operations of the program, along with suggestions for further enhancements. The communication, directed to the Soviet Union's head of track and field, was prepared by Dr. Sergei Portugalov of the Institute for Physical Culture. Portugalov was also one of the main figures involved in the implementation of the Russian doping program prior to the 2016 Summer Olympics.\n\nThe first Olympic athlete to test positive for the use of performance-enhancing drugs was Hans-Gunnar Liljenwall, a Swedish pentathlete at the 1968 Summer Olympics, who lost his bronze medal for alcohol use. One of the most publicised doping-related disqualifications occurred after the 1988 Summer Olympics where Canadian sprinter, Ben Johnson (who won the 100-metre dash) tested positive for stanozolol. His gold medal was later stripped and awarded to the American runner-up Carl Lewis, who himself had tested positive for banned substances prior to the Olympics.\n\nIn 1999 the IOC formed the World Anti-Doping Agency (WADA) in an effort to systematise the research and detection of performance-enhancing drugs. There was a sharp increase in positive drug tests at the 2000 Summer Olympics and 2002 Winter Olympics. Several medallists in weightlifting and cross-country skiing were disqualified because of doping offences. During the 2006 Winter Olympics, only one athlete failed a drug test and had a medal revoked. The IOC-established drug testing regimen (now known as the Olympic Standard) has set the worldwide benchmark that other sporting federations attempt to emulate. During the Beijing games, 3,667 athletes were tested by the IOC under the auspices of the World Anti-Doping Agency. Both urine and blood tests were used to detect banned substances. Several athletes were barred from competition by their National Olympic Committees prior to the Games; only three athletes failed drug tests while in competition in Beijing. In London over 6,000 Olympic and Paralympic athletes were tested. Prior to the Games 107 athletes tested positive for banned substances and were not allowed to compete. During and after the Games eight athletes tested positive for a banned substance and were suspended, including shot putter Nadzeya Ostapchuk, who was stripped of her gold medal.\n\nRussia was partially banned from the 2016 Summer Olympics and completely banned from the 2018 Winter Olympics due to the state-sponsored doping program.\n\nWomen were first allowed to compete at the 1900 Summer Olympics in Paris, but at the 1992 Summer Olympics 35 countries were still only fielding all-male delegations. This number dropped rapidly over the following years. In 2000, Bahrain sent two women competitors for the first time: Fatema Hameed Gerashi and Mariam Mohamed Hadi Al Hilli. In 2004, Robina Muqimyar and Fariba Rezayee became the first women to compete for Afghanistan at the Olympics. In 2008, the United Arab Emirates sent female athletes (Maitha Al Maktoum competed in taekwondo, and Latifa Al Maktoum in equestrian) to the Olympic Games for the first time. Both athletes were from Dubai's ruling family.\n\nBy 2010, only three countries had never sent female athletes to the Games: Brunei, Saudi Arabia, and Qatar. Brunei had taken part in only three celebrations of the Games, sending a single athlete on each occasion, but Saudi Arabia and Qatar had been competing regularly with all-male teams. In 2010, the International Olympic Committee announced it would \"press\" these countries to enable and facilitate the participation of women for the 2012 Summer Olympics. Anita DeFrantz, chair of the IOC's Women and Sports Commission, suggested that countries be barred if they prevented women from competing. Shortly thereafter, the Qatar Olympic Committee announced that it \"hoped to send up to four female athletes in shooting and fencing\" to the 2012 Summer Games in London.\n\nIn 2008, Ali Al-Ahmed, director of the Institute for Gulf Affairs, likewise called for Saudi Arabia to be barred from the Games, describing its ban on women athletes as a violation of the International Olympic Committee charter. He noted: \"For the last 15 years, many international nongovernmental organisations worldwide have been trying to lobby the IOC for better enforcement of its own laws banning gender discrimination. ... While their efforts did result in increasing numbers of women Olympians, the IOC has been reluctant to take a strong position and threaten the discriminating countries with suspension or expulsion.\" In July 2010, \"The Independent\" reported: \"Pressure is growing on the International Olympic Committee to kick out Saudi Arabia, who are likely to be the only major nation not to include women in their Olympic team for 2012. ... Should Saudi Arabia ... send a male-only team to London, we understand they will face protests from equal rights and women's groups which threaten to disrupt the Games\".\n\nAt the 2012 Olympic Games in London, Great Britain, for the first time in Olympic history, every country competing included female athletes. Saudi Arabia included two female athletes in its delegation; Qatar, four; and Brunei, one (Maziah Mahusin, in the 400m hurdles). Qatar made one of its first female Olympians, Bahiya al-Hamad (shooting), its flagbearer at the 2012 Games, and runner Maryam Yusuf Jamal of Bahrain became the first Gulf female athlete to win a medal when she won a bronze for her showing in the 1500 m race.\n\nThe only sport on the Olympic programme that features men and women competing together is the equestrian disciplines. There is no \"Women's Eventing\", or 'Men's Dressage'. As of 2008, there were still more medal events for men than women. With the addition of women's boxing to the programme in the 2012 Summer Olympics, however, female athletes were able to compete in all the same sports as men. In the winter Olympics, women are still unable to compete in the Nordic combined. There are currently two Olympic events in which male athletes may not compete: synchronised swimming and rhythmic gymnastics.\n\nThree Olympiads had to pass without a celebration of the Games because of war: the 1916 Games were cancelled because of World War I, and the summer and winter games of 1940 and 1944 were cancelled because of World War II. The Russo-Georgian War between Georgia and Russia erupted on the opening day of the 2008 Summer Olympics in Beijing. Both President Bush and Prime Minister Putin were attending the Olympics at that time and spoke together about the conflict at a luncheon hosted by Chinese president Hu Jintao. When Nino Salukvadze of Georgia won the bronze medal in the 10 metre air pistol competition, she stood on the medal podium with Natalia Paderina, a Russian shooter who had won the silver. In what became a much-publicised event from the Beijing Games, Salukvadze and Paderina embraced on the podium after the ceremony had ended.\n\nTerrorism most directly affected the Olympic Games in 1972. When the Summer Games were held in Munich, Germany, eleven members of the Israeli Olympic team were taken hostage by the Palestinian terrorist group Black September in what is now known as the Munich massacre. The terrorists killed two of the athletes soon after they had taken them hostage and killed the other nine during a failed liberation attempt. A German police officer and five terrorists also perished. Following the selection of Barcelona, Spain to host the 1992 Summer Olympics, the separatist ETA terrorist organisation launched attacks in the region, including the 1991 Vic bombing that killed ten people in a town that would also hold events.\n\nTerrorism affected the last two Olympic Games held in the United States. During the Summer Olympics in 1996 in Atlanta, Georgia, a bomb was detonated at the Centennial Olympic Park, which killed two and injured 111 others. The bomb was set by Eric Rudolph, an American domestic terrorist, who is currently serving a life sentence for the bombing. The 2002 Winter Olympics in Salt Lake City, Utah, took place just five months after the September 11 attacks, which meant a higher level of security than ever before provided for an Olympic Games. The opening ceremonies of the Games featured symbols of the day's events. They included the flag that flew at Ground Zero, NYPD officer Daniel Rodríguez singing \"God Bless America\", and honour guards of NYPD and FDNY members. The events of that day have made security at the Olympic Games an increasing concern for Olympic planners.\n\nThe Olympic Games have been criticised as upholding (and in some cases increasing) the colonial policies and practices of some host nations and cities either in the name of the Olympics by associated parties or directly by official Olympic bodies, such as the International Olympic Committee, host organising committees and official sponsors. Critics have argued that the Olympics have engaged in or caused erroneous anthropological and colonial knowledge production, erasure, commodification and appropriation of indigenous ceremonies and symbolism, theft and inappropriate display of indigenous objects, further encroachment on and support of the theft of indigenous lands, and neglect and/or intensification of poor social conditions for indigenous peoples. Such practices have been observed at the 1904 Summer Olympics in St. Louis, Missouri; the 1976 Summer Olympics in Montreal, Quebec; the 1988 Winter Olympics in Calgary, Alberta; and the 2010 Winter Olympics in Vancouver, British Columbia.\n\nThe Olympic Charter requires that an athlete be a national of the country for which they compete. Dual nationals may compete for either country, as long as three years have passed since the competitor competed for the former country. However, if the NOCs and IF involved agree, then the IOC Executive Board may reduce or cancel this period. This waiting period exists only for athletes who previously competed for one nation and want to compete for another. If an athlete gains a new or second nationality, then they do not need to wait any designated amount of time before participating for the new or second nation. The IOC is only concerned with issues of citizenship and nationality after individual nations have granted citizenship to athletes.\n\nAthletes will sometimes become citizens of a different nation so they are able to compete in the Olympics. This is often because they are drawn to sponsorships or training facilities in such places as the United States. It could also be because an athlete is unable to qualify from within their original country. The athlete may not qualify because there are already qualified athletes in the athlete's home country. Between 1992 and 2008, about fifty athletes emigrated to the United States to compete on the US Olympic team after having previously competed for another nation.\n\nOne of the most famous cases of changing nationality for the Olympics was Zola Budd, a South African runner who emigrated to the United Kingdom because there was an apartheid-era ban on the Olympics in South Africa. Budd was eligible for British citizenship because her grandfather was born in Britain, but British citizens accused the government of expediting the citizenship process for her.\n\nOther notable examples include Kenyan runner Bernard Lagat, who became a United States citizen in May 2004. The Kenyan constitution required that one renounce their Kenyan citizenship when they became a citizen of another nation. Lagat competed for Kenya in the 2004 Athens Olympics even though he had already become a United States citizen. According to Kenya, he was no longer a Kenyan citizen, jeopardising his silver medal. Lagat said he started the citizenship process in late 2003 and did not expect to become an American citizen until after the Athens games.\n\nThe athletes or teams who place first, second, or third in each event receive medals. The winners receive gold medals, which were solid gold until 1912, then made of gilded silver and now gold-plated silver. Every gold medal however must contain at least six grams of pure gold. The runners-up receive silver medals and the third-place athletes are awarded bronze medals. In events contested by a single-elimination tournament (most notably boxing), third place might not be determined and both semifinal losers receive bronze medals. At the 1896 Olympics only the first two received a medal; silver for first and bronze for second. The current three-medal format was introduced at the 1904 Olympics. From 1948 onward athletes placing fourth, fifth, and sixth have received certificates, which became officially known as victory diplomas; in 1984 victory diplomas for seventh- and eighth-place finishers were added. At the 2004 Summer Olympics in Athens, the gold, silver, and bronze medal winners were also given olive wreaths. The IOC does not keep statistics of medals won on a national level (except for team sports), but NOCs and the media record medal statistics as a measure of success.\n\nAs of the 2016 Games in Rio de Janeiro, all of the current 206 NOCs and 19 obsolete NOCs have participated in at least one edition of the Summer Olympics. Competitors from Australia, France, Great Britain, Greece, and Switzerland have competed in all twenty-eight Summer Olympic Games. Athletes competing under the Olympic flag, Mixed Teams and the Refugee Team have between them competed at six Games.\n\n119 NOCs (110 of the current 206 NOCs and 9 obsolete NOCs) have participated in at least one Winter Games, and athletes from fournteen nations (Austria, Canada, Czech Republic, Finland, France, Great Britain, Hungary, Italy, Norway, Poland, Slovakia, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United States) have participated in all twenty-three Winter Games to date.\n\nThe host city for an Olympic Games is usually chosen seven to eight years ahead of their celebration. The process of selection is carried out in two phases that span a two-year period. The prospective host city applies to its country's National Olympic Committee; if more than one city from the same country submits a proposal to its NOC, the national committee typically holds an internal selection, since only one city per NOC can be presented to the International Olympic Committee for consideration. Once the deadline for submission of proposals by the NOCs is reached, the first phase (Application) begins with the applicant cities asked to complete a questionnaire regarding several key criteria related to the organisation of the Olympic Games. In this form, the applicants must give assurances that they will comply with the Olympic Charter and with any other regulations established by the IOC Executive Committee. The evaluation of the filled questionnaires by a specialised group provides the IOC with an overview of each applicant's project and their potential to host the Games. On the basis of this technical evaluation, the IOC Executive Board selects the applicants that will proceed to the candidature stage.\n\nOnce the candidate cities are selected, they must submit to the IOC a bigger and more detailed presentation of their project as part of a candidature file. Each city is thoroughly analysed by an evaluation commission. This commission will also visit the candidate cities, interviewing local officials and inspecting prospective venue sites, and submit a report on its findings one month prior to the IOC's final decision. During the interview process the candidate city must also guarantee that it will be able to fund the Games. After the work of the evaluation commission, a list of candidates is presented to the General Session of the IOC, which must assemble in a country that does not have a candidate city in the running. The IOC members gathered in the Session have the final vote on the host city. Once elected, the host city bid committee (together with the NOC of the respective country) signs a Host City Contract with the IOC, officially becoming an Olympic host nation and host city.\n\nBy 2016, the Olympic Games will have been hosted by 44 cities in 23 countries, but by cities outside Europe and North America on only eight occasions. Since the 1988 Summer Olympics in Seoul, South Korea, the Olympics have been held in Asia or Oceania four times, a sharp increase compared to the previous 92 years of modern Olympic history. The 2016 Games in Rio de Janeiro were the first Olympics for a South American country. No bids from countries in Africa have succeeded.\n\nThe United States has hosted eight Olympic Games, four Summer and four Winter, more than any other nation. The British capital London holds the distinction of hosting three Olympic Games, all Summer, more than any other city. The other nations hosting the Summer Games twice are Germany, Australia, France and Greece. The other cities hosting the Summer Games twice are Los Angeles, Paris and Athens. With the 2020 Summer Olympic Games, Japan and Tokyo, respectively, will hold these statuses.\n\nIn addition to the United States, nations hosting multiple Winter Games are France with three, while Switzerland, Austria, Norway, Japan, Canada and Italy have hosted twice. Among host cities, Lake Placid, Innsbruck and St. Moritz have played host to the Winter Olympic Games more than once, each holding that honour twice. The most recent Winter Games were held in Pyeongchang in 2018, South Korea's first Winter Olympics and second Olympics overall (including the 1988 Summer Olympics in Seoul).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52451941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52451941", "title": "Philippine Bowling Federation", "text": "Philippine Bowling Federation\n\nThe Philippine Bowling Federation (PBF) is a duly-accredited governing body of Tenpin Bowling in the Philippines. PBF is currently recognized by the Philippine Olympic Committee, Philippine Sports Commission, Asian Bowling Federation, and World Bowling.\n\nIt was formed in 2016, replacing the now-defunct Philippine Bowling Congress with different major stakeholders including former national athletes, bowling clubs, associations, proprietors and players as the incorporators. Former national bowler and incumbent Senator Vicente Sotto III is the federation's Chairman, Philippine Senior Bowlers President Steve Robles is currently its president and Secretary General is Olivia \"Bong\" Coo. Paeng Nepomuceno, also a PBF Trustee led the coaching staff of the Philippine national bowling team.\n\nThe federation's first tournament was the 2016 PBF National Championships at the Coronado Lanes, Mandaluyong on December 3–4, 2016 which was attended by top PBF officials who are also doing the ceremonial serve before the start of the competition.\n\nPBF hosted The Philippine International Open on May 13 to 28 2017 at the Coronado Lanes in Starmall Edsa Mandaluyong City. The event is an Asian Bowling Federation ranking. it was participated in by bowlers from host Philippines, Australia, Bahrain, Hong Kong, India, Indonesia, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia,Korea, Kuwait, Malaysia, Singapore, United Arab Emirates, Guam U.S.A. and Filipino bowlers residing or working overseas.\n\nIn 2017, PBF has produced the first ever silver medals in the Asian Indoor and Martial Arts Games (AIMAG) in Ashgabat courtesy of Kenneth Chua in Men Singles and in Women Team of Five and after 39 years the Philippines regained the QubicaAmf Bowling World Cup Women's title with Krizziah Tabora in Hermosillo, Mexico.\n\nPBF also hosted 19th Asian Youth Tenpin Bowling Championships in October 2017 at Corodano Lanes, Starmall EDSA in Mandaluyong City. The tournament returned to the Philippines after 19 years.\n\nPBF will host the 2018 Philippine International Open on April 28 - May 13.\n\nThe incorporators of PBF are Hon. Sen Vicente Sotto III, Stephen Hontiveros, Steve Robles, Alex Lim, Paeng Nepomuceno, Bong Coo, Biboy Rivera, Rene Reyas, Casiano King, Salome Lopa and Gina Avecilla.\n\n"}
{"id": "11680442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11680442", "title": "RK Pljevlja", "text": "RK Pljevlja\n\nRukometni klub Rudar is a handball club in Pljevlja, Montenegro.\n\nChampion of the Sandzak 3 times!\nNow Club to compete in a mini league for Champions.\n\nNenad Perunicic, Predrag Perunicic, Boban Knezevic, Goran Cmiljanic ( www.rkskipper.com ), Radan Rovcanin\n\nRadan Rovcanin\nfirst coach of HC Rudar Pljevlja. Originated in the club. After an excellent player career,he coach for three years. Two years in Italy and now in Rudar. He was born in Pljevlja 09.05.1971. www.rkrudar.co.me\n\n\nwww.rkrudar.co.me"}
{"id": "1755460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1755460", "title": "Road bicycle racing", "text": "Road bicycle racing\n\nRoad bicycle racing is the cycle sport discipline of road cycling, held on paved roads. Road racing is the most popular professional form of bicycle racing, in terms of numbers of competitors, events and spectators. The two most common competition formats are mass start events, where riders start simultaneously (though sometimes with a handicap) and race to set finish point; and time trials, where individual riders or teams race a course alone against the clock. Stage races or \"tours\" take multiple days, and consist of several mass-start or time-trial stages ridden consecutively.\n\nProfessional racing has been most popular in Western Europe, centered historically on France, Spain, Italy and the Low Countries. Since the mid-1980s the sport has diversified with professional races now held on all continents of the globe. Semi-professional and amateur races are also held in many countries. The sport is governed by the Union Cycliste Internationale (UCI). As well as the UCI's annual World Championships for men and women, the biggest event is the Tour de France, a three-week race that can attract over 500,000 roadside supporters a day.\n\nRoad racing in its modern form originated in the late 19th century. It began as an organized sport in 1868. The sport was popular in the western European countries of France, Spain, Belgium, and Italy, and some of those earliest road bicycle races remain among the sport's biggest events. These early races include Liège–Bastogne–Liège (established 1892), Paris–Roubaix (1896), the Tour de France (1903), the Milan–San Remo and Giro di Lombardia (1905), the Giro d'Italia (1909), the Volta a Catalunya (1911), and the Tour of Flanders (1913). They provided a template for other races around the world.\n\nCycling has been part of the Summer Olympic Games since the modern sequence started in Athens in 1896.\n\nHistorically, the most competitive and devoted countries since the beginning of 20th century were Belgium, France and Italy, then road cycling spread in Colombia, Denmark, Germany, Luxembourg, the Netherlands, Portugal, Spain and Switzerland after World War II. However nowadays as the sport grows in popularity through globalization, countries such as Kazakhstan, Australia, Russia, Slovakia, South Africa, New Zealand, Norway, the United Kingdom, Ireland, Poland and the United States continue to produce world-class cyclists.\n\nSingle-day race distances may be as long as . Courses may run from place to place or comprise one or more laps of a circuit; some courses combine both, i.e., taking the riders from a starting place and then finishing with several laps of a circuit (usually to ensure a good spectacle for spectators at the finish). Races over short circuits, often in town or city centres, are known as criteriums. Some races, known as handicaps, are designed to match riders of different abilities and/or ages; groups of slower riders start first, with the fastest riders starting last and so having to race harder and faster to catch other competitors.\n\nIndividual time trial (ITT) is an event in which cyclists race alone against the clock on flat or rolling terrain, or up a mountain road. A team time trial (TTT), including two-man team time trial, is a road-based bicycle race in which teams of cyclists race against the clock. In both team and individual time trials, the cyclists start the race at different times so that each start is fair and equal. Unlike individual time trials where competitors are not permitted to 'draft' (ride in the slipstream) behind each other, in team time trials, riders in each team employ this as their main tactic, each member taking a turn at the front while teammates 'sit in' behind. Race distances vary from a few km (typically a prologue, an individual time trial of usually less than before a stage race, used to determine which rider wears the leader's jersey on the first stage) to between approximately and .\n\nStage races consist of several races, or stages, ridden consecutively. The competitor with the lowest cumulative time to complete all stages is declared the overall, or general classification (GC), winner. Stage races may also have other classifications and awards, such as individual stage winners, the points classification winner, and the \"King of the Mountains\" (or mountains classification) winner. A stage race can also be a series of road races and individual time trials (some events include team time trials). The stage winner is the first person to cross the finish line that day or the time trial rider (or team) with the lowest time on the course. The overall winner of a stage race is the rider who takes the lowest aggregate time to complete all stages (accordingly, a rider does not have to win all or any of the individual stages to win overall). Three-week stage races are called Grand Tours. The professional road bicycle racing calendar includes three Grand Tours - the Giro d'Italia, the Tour de France, and the Vuelta a Espana.\n\nUltra-distance cycling races are very long single stage events where the race clock continuously runs from start to finish. They usually last several days and the riders take breaks on their own schedules, with the winner being the first one to cross the finish line. Among the best-known ultramarathons is the Race Across America (RAAM), a coast-to-coast non-stop, single-stage race in which riders cover approximately in about a week. The race is sanctioned by the UltraMarathon Cycling Association (UMCA). RAAM and similar events allow (and often require) racers to be supported by a team of staff; there are also ultra-distance bicycle races that prohibit all external support, such as the Transcontinental Race and the Indian Pacific Wheel Race.\n\nA number of tactics are employed to reach the objective of a race. This objective is being the first to cross the finish line in the case of a single-stage race, and clocking the least aggregate finish time in the case of a multi-stage race.\n\nTactics are based on the aerodynamic benefit of drafting, whereby a rider can significantly reduce the required pedal effort by closely following in the slipstream of the rider in front. Riding in the main field, or peloton, can save as much as 40% of the energy employed in forward motion when compared to riding alone. Some teams designate a leader, whom the rest of the team is charged with keeping out of the wind and in good position until a critical section of the race. This can be used as a strength or a weakness by competitors; riders can cooperate and draft each other to ride at high speed (a paceline or echelon), or one rider can sit on a competitor's wheel, forcing him to do a greater share of the work in maintaining the pace and to potentially tire earlier. Drafting is not permitted in individual time trials.\n\nA group of riders that \"breaks away\" (a \"break\") from the peloton has more space and freedom, and can therefore be at an advantage in certain situations. Working together smoothly and efficiently, a small group can potentially maintain a higher speed than the peloton, in which the remaining riders may not be as motivated or organized to chase effectively. Usually a rider or group of riders will try to break from the peloton by attacking and riding ahead to reduce the number of contenders for the win. If the break does not succeed and the body of cyclists comes back together, a sprinter will often win by overpowering competitors in the final stretch. Teamwork between riders, both pre-arranged and ad-hoc, is important in many aspects: in preventing or helping a successful break, and sometimes in delivering a sprinter to the front of the field.\n\nTo make the course more selective, races often feature difficult sections such as tough climbs, fast descents, and sometimes technical surfaces (such as the cobbled \"pavé\" used in the Paris–Roubaix race). Stronger riders are able to drop weaker riders during such sections, reducing the number of direct competitors able to take the win. Also weather may be a discriminating factor.\n\nClimbs are excellent places for a single rider to try and break away from a bunch, as the lower riding speeds in a climb seriously reduce the drafting advantage of the bunch. The escaping rider can then further capitalize on his position in the descent, as going downhill singly allows for more maneuvering space and therefore higher speeds than when in a bunch. In addition, because the bunch riders are keeping more space between them for safety reasons, their drafting benefits are again reduced. If this action takes place relatively close to the target (e.g. another bunch ahead, or the finish), the ride over flatter terrain after the descent is not long enough to let the drafting effect (which is then working at full power again) make the bunch catch up, making a climb escape even more attractive.\n\nWind conditions can also make otherwise routine sections of a course potentially selective. Cyclists have been finding that three- or four-spoked composite front wheels are more stable when confronting crosswinds. Crosswinds, particularly, alter the position of the \"shadow\" when drafting a rider, usually placing it diagonally behind the lead rider. To take advantage of this, an attacking rider rides at high speed at the front of the peloton, on the opposite side of the road from which the crosswind is blowing. Following riders are unable to fully shelter from the wind. If such tactics are maintained for long enough, a weaker rider somewhere in the line will be unable to keep contact with the rider directly ahead, causing the peloton to split up.\n\nAs well as exceptional fitness, successful riders must develop excellent bike handling skills in order to ride at high speeds in close quarters with other riders. Individual riders can reach speeds of while descending winding mountain roads and may reach 60–80 km/h (37–50 mph) level speeds during the final sprint to the finish line. Across a long stage race, such as a Grand Tour, the winner's average speed is usually near 40 km/h.\n\nIn more organized races, a SAG wagon (\"support and gear\") or broom wagon follows the race to pick up stragglers. In professional stage racing, particularly the Tour de France, riders who are not in a position to win the race or assist a teammate, will usually attempt to ride to the finish within a specified percentage of the winner's finishing time, to be permitted to start the next day's stage. Often, riders in this situation band together to minimize the effort required to finish within the time limit; this group of riders is known as the \"gruppetto\" or \"autobus\". In one-day racing, professionals who no longer have any chance to affect the race outcome will routinely withdraw, even if they are uninjured and capable of riding to the finish.\n\nWhile the principle remains that the winner is the first to cross the line, many riders are grouped together in teams, usually with commercial sponsors. On professional and semi-professional teams, team names are typically synonymous with the primary sponsors. As an example, some prominent professional teams of the last 30 years have been , , , and . The size of the team varies, from three in an amateur event for club riders to a dozen in professional races. Team riders decide between themselves, before and during the race, who has the best chance of winning. The choice will depend on hills, the chances that the whole field will finish together in a sprint, and other factors. The other riders on the team, or domestiques, will devote themselves to promoting the leader's chances, taking turns in the wind for him, refusing to chase with the peloton when he or she escapes, and so on. The goal is to allow the leader to have enough energy to take off at the critical point of the race and go on to victory.\n\nIn professional races, team coordination is often performed by radio communication between the riders and the team director, who travels in a team car behind the race and monitors the overall situation. The influence of radios on race tactics is a topic of discussion amongst the cycling community, with some arguing that the introduction of radios in the 1990s has devalued the tactical knowledge of individual riders and has led to less exciting racing. In September 2009, the Union Cycliste Internationale (UCI), the governing body of pro cycling, voted to phase in a ban on the use of team radios in men's elite road racing. However, after protests from teams, the ban introduced in 2011 excluded races on the top-level men's and women's circuits (the UCI World Tour and UCI Women's Road World Cup) and in 2015 the UCI reversed its stance, allowing race radios to be used in class HC and class 1 events from the 2016 season.\n\nWithin the discipline of road racing, from young age different cyclists have different (relative) strengths and weaknesses. Depending on these, riders tend to prefer different events over particular courses, and perform different tactical roles within a team.\n\nThe main specialities in road bicycle racing are:\n\nIn a stage race a \"stage ranking\" is drawn up at the end of each stage, showing for each participating rider the completion time of the stage. The one with the lowest completion time wins the stage. At the same time a \"general ranking\" shows the cumulative finishing times of all prior stages for each participating rider. A rider who does not complete any of the stages within its respective time limit is disqualified. The one with the lowest total cumulative time is the general leader. The general leader typically wears a distinctive jersey (yellow in the Tour de France) and generally maintains a position near the head of the main mass of riders (the peloton), surrounded by team members, whose job it is to protect the leader.\n\nContenders for the general lead may stage \"attacks\" to distance themselves from the leader in \"breakaways\". The general leader's vulnerability to breakaways is higher when the escaping rider(s) trail by a small time difference in the general ranking, and as number of remaining stages diminishes. Riders, who finish in the stage ranking behind the general leader, increase their cumulative time disadvantage. Whereas those who finish ahead of the general leader decrease their time disadvantage and may even gain sufficient time to unseat the general leader. After each stage, the racer with the lowest cumulative time becomes (or remains) the general leader.\n\nThe general leader does not generally react to breakaways by riders who trail substantially in cumulative time. Such escapes usually achieve other goals, such as winning the stage, collecting sprinting or mountain points, or just creating air time for their team sponsors as a dedicated camera bike typically accompanies the escape.\n\nNotable cycling races include the Tour de France, a three-week stage race principally through France and ending in Paris, the Giro d'Italia in Italy and the Vuelta a España in Spain. Each of these races is considered a \"Grand Tour\".\n\nProfessional racing is governed by the Union Cycliste Internationale. In 2005 it instituted the UCI ProTour (renamed UCI World Tour in 2011) to replace the UCI Road World Cup series. While the World Cup contained only one-day races, the World Tour includes the Grand Tours and other large stage races such as Tour Down Under, Tour de Suisse, Paris–Nice and the Critérium de Dauphiné Libéré.\n\nThe former UCI Road World Cup one-day races – which include all five Classic cycle races or \"Monuments\" – were also part of the ProTour: Milan–San Remo (Italy), Tour of Flanders (Belgium), Paris–Roubaix (France), Liège–Bastogne–Liège (Belgium) and Amstel Gold Race (Netherlands) in the spring, and Clásica de San Sebastián (Spain), HEW Cyclassics (Germany), Züri-Metzgete (Switzerland, until 2006), Paris–Tours (France, until 2007) and Giro di Lombardia (Italy) in the autumn season.\nCycling has been a discipline in the summer Olympics ever since the birth of the modern Olympic movement. The historian Wlodzimierz Golebiewski says: \"Cycling has become a major event on the Olympic programme ... Like many other sports it has undergone several changes over the years. Just as there used to be track and field events such as the standing high jump or throwing the javelin with both hands, cyclists, too, used to compete for medals in events which today have been forgotten; for example in Athens in 1896, they attempted a 12-hour race, and in London, in 1908, one of the events was a sprint for .\" The Olympic Games has never been as important in road cycling as in other sports. Until the distinction ended, the best riders were professionals rather than amateurs and so did not take part. Law enforcement always escort the athletes to ensure they and bystanders are kept safe during the cycling events, especially the road races.\n\nThe success of the races in the Parc de St-Cloud inspired the Compagnie Parisienne and the magazine \"Le Vélocipède Illustré\" to run a race from the Arc de Triomphe in Paris to the cathedral in Rouen on 7 November 1869. It was the world's first long-distance road race and also won by Moore, who took 10 hours and 25 minutes to cover 134 km. The runners-up were the Count André Castéra, who had come second to Moore at St-Cloud, and Jean Bobillier, riding a farm bike that weighed 35 kg. The only woman to finish within 24 hours was the self-styled Miss America, in reality an unknown English woman who, like several in the field, had preferred not to compete under her real name.\n\nThe growth of organised cycle racing led to the development of national administrative bodies, in Britain in 1878, France 1881, the Netherlands 1883, Germany 1884 and Sweden 1900. Sometimes, as in Britain, cycling was originally administered as part of athletics, since cyclists often used the tracks used by runners. This, according to historian James McGurn, led to disputes within countries and internationally.\n\nThe first international body was the International Cycling Association (ICA), established by an English schoolteacher named Henry Sturmey, the founder of Sturmey-Archer. It opened in 1893 and held its first world championship in Chicago, United States, the same year. A new organisation, the Union Cycliste Internationale (UCI), was set up on 15 April 1900 during the Olympic Games in Paris. Britain was not initially a member, but joined in 1903. The UCI, based in Switzerland, has run the sport ever since.\n\nIn its home in Europe and in the United States, cycle racing on the road is a summer sport, although the season can start in early spring and end in autumn. The months of the season depend on the hemisphere. A racing year is divided between lesser races, single-day classics and stage races. The classics include the Tour of Flanders, Paris–Roubaix and Milan–San Remo. The other important one-day race is the World Championships. Unlike other classics, the World Championships is held on a different course each year and ridden by national rather than sponsored teams. The winner wears a white jersey with coloured bands (often called \"rainbow bands\") around the chest.\n\nIn Australia, due to the relatively mild winters and hot summers, the amateur road racing season runs from autumn to spring, through the winter months, while criterium races are held in the mornings or late afternoons during the summer. Some professional events, including the Tour Down Under, are held in the southern summer, mainly to avoid clashing with the major northern hemisphere races and allowing top professionals to compete.\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "30757512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30757512", "title": "Rostov Arena", "text": "Rostov Arena\n\nRostov Arena () is an association football stadium in Rostov-on-Don, Russia. It is one of the venues for the 2018 FIFA World Cup. It also hosts FC Rostov of the Russian Premier League, replacing Olimp – 2. It has a capacity of 45,000 spectators.\n\nIn June 2013, during the groundbreaking for the stadium, five shells from WWII were found, almost perfectly preserved.\n\nIn August 2013, work began on the sandy alluvium foundation for the stadium. Work on the foundation was completed in May 2014. Construction commenced on the stadium substructure in October 2015. \nIn December the construction site began to bring in heavy equipment and construction materials. In January 2015, crews began driving piles.\n\nIn March 2015, the stadium project was revised, reducing the cost of construction to 3 billion rubles. In the summer of 2015 pile driving was completed and superstructure construction began. \n\nIn December 2015, work began on the installation of the metal roof frame. In July 2016 work on the concrete stadium bowl began. In addition, builders started construction of the facade and began landscaping the adjacent territory to the stadium. In November 2016 the reinforced concrete work of the stadium main bowl was fully completed and the installation of load bearing roof structures began.\n\nThe stadium has locker rooms for players and referees, staff rooms, rooms for match delegates, doping control areas, press centers, and other premises for high-profile sports tournaments.\n\nThe stadium grounds offer a sufficient number of parking spaces. The arena is designed to be accesible for people with limited mobility.\n\nIn 2011, the final design for the new stadium was presented by Populous. The irregular shape of both the roof and stands are distinctive features. Part of the seating is to be temporary, for the 2018 World Cup. After the tournament capacity may be decreased to 42,000. As the main architect for Rostov Region confirmed, this stadium is to be the start of a new city centre. It will be the first large project built on the southern bank of the Don River, with the rest of the city lying north. With shopping and dining destinations, the stadium will serve as a focal point for investments and new developments.\n\nAfter the 2018 FIFA World Cup, the arena is to be used for the matches of local FC Rostov and for the Russia national football team games, as well as for other sporting and cultural events.\n\n"}
{"id": "36628333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36628333", "title": "Sabine Hazboun", "text": "Sabine Hazboun\n\nSabine Hazboun (Arabic: سابين حزبون ; born 1994) is a Palestinian swimmer. She was born in Bethlehem. She competed in the women's 50m freestyle at the 2012 Summer Olympics in London, finishing with a personal best time of 28.28 seconds. She also competed in 5 world swimming championships, 2 Asian Games, Youth Olympic Games, Arab Games and other international championships. She trained in Barcelona.\n"}
{"id": "7354319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7354319", "title": "Scottish Grand National", "text": "Scottish Grand National\n\nThe Scottish Grand National is a Grade 3 National Hunt steeplechase in Great Britain which is open to horses aged five years or older. It is run at Ayr, Scotland, over a distance of about 4 miles and during its running there are 27 fences to be jummped. It is a handicap race, and takes place each year in April.\nIt is Scotland's equivalent of the Grand National, and is held during Ayr's two-day Scottish Grand National Festival meeting.\n\nThe race, then known as the \"West of Scotland Grand National\", was first run at a course near Houston, Renfrewshire in 1858. It consisted of 32 jumps, mainly stone walls.\n\nIn 1867, after objections by the leader of the Free Kirk in Houston, the race moved to Bogside Racecourse, near Irvine. The inaugural winner at Bogside, The Elk, was owned by the Duke of Hamilton. During the early part of its history the race's distance was about three miles. It was later extended to 3⅞ miles, and became known by its present title in 1880, when it was won by Peacock.\n\nBogside Racecourse closed in 1965, and the Scottish Grand National was transferred to Ayr the following year. At this point the race was increased to its present length. Several winners of the Scottish Grand National have also won its English counterpart at Aintree. The first to complete the double was Music Hall, the winner of the 1922 Grand National. The feat has been achieved more recently by Little Polveir and Earth Summit, but the only horse to win both races in the same year was Red Rum in 1974.\n\nThe winning horse in 1867 won £100, increasing to £440 by 1906, £1030 in 1950, £5,436 in 1963 and £119,595 in 2015.\n\nThe first television coverage of the Scottish National was in 1953 on the BBC. It was also shown the following year, but then wasn't screened again until 1969 on ITV and has been shown live ever since. Coverage moved to Channel 4 in 1986 and back to ITV in 2017.\n\nMost successful horse (3 wins):\n\nLeading jockey\n\nLeading trainer\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32871904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32871904", "title": "Sportanlage Blumenau", "text": "Sportanlage Blumenau\n\nSportanlage Blumenau is a football stadium in Triesen, Liechtenstein. It has a capacity of 2,100 and is the home of FC Triesen.\n\n"}
{"id": "22816071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22816071", "title": "Taunggyi Stadium", "text": "Taunggyi Stadium\n\nTaunggyi Stadium is a multi-use stadium in Taunggyi, Myanmar. It is currently used mostly for football matches and is the home ground of Shan United F.C. of the Myanmar National League. The stadium has a capacity of 7,000 spectators.\n\n"}
{"id": "301922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=301922", "title": "Tote board", "text": "Tote board\n\nA tote board (or totalisator/totalizator) is a large numeric or alphanumeric display used to convey information, typically at a race track (to display the odds or payoffs for each horse) or at a telethon (to display the total amount donated to the charitable organization sponsoring the event).\n\nThe term \"tote board\" comes from the colloquialism for \"totalizator\" (or \"totalisator\"), the name for the automated system which runs parimutuel betting, calculating payoff odds, displaying them, and producing tickets based on incoming bets. Parimutuel systems had used totalisator boards since the 1860s and they were often housed in substantial buildings. However the manual systems often resulted in substantial delays in calculations of clients' payouts.\n\nThe first all-mechanical totalisator was invented by George Julius. Julius was a consulting engineer, based in Sydney. There is some irony that his father, the Anglican Bishop of Christchurch (New Zealand) had campaigned, in the early years of the twentieth century, against the iniquities of gambling using totalisators and its damage upon New Zealand society. That attitude had changed by late 1907 when he argued that the totalisator removed much of the evil of gambling with bookmakers. Bishop Julius was himself a noted amateur mechanic with a reputation for fixing clocks and organs in parishes he visited.\n\nInitially, Julius was attempting to develop a voting calculating machine for the Australian government, to automatically reduce the instances of voter fraud and create a cheat-free political environment. He went on to present his unique invention, only to have his design rejected as it was deemed to be excessive.\n\nThe first all-mechanical machine was installed at Ellerslie Racecourse in New Zealand in 1913 (first used on the Holy Saturday races on 22 March 1913), and the second was installed at Gloucester Park Racetrack in Western Australia in 1917. George Julius founded Automatic Totalisators Limited (ATL) in 1917, which supplied the \"Premier Totalisator: now including electrical components\". The first totalisators installed in the United States were at Hialeah Park, Florida, in 1932 (by ATL), and at Arlington Park racecourse, Chicago, in 1933. The first entirely electronic totalisator was developed in 1966.\n\nTotalisators have been superseded by general purpose computers running specialised wagering software such as Autotote. In many cases beyond older systems, telethon tote boards have either been replaced by LCD displays showing totals, or scoreboards adapted to display dollar amounts.\n\nAn automatic totalisator is a device to add up the bets in a pari-mutuel betting system. The whole of the pot (the stakes on all competitors) is divided \"pro rata\" to the stakes placed on the winning competitor and those tickets are paid out. Essentially it implements a system of starting price (SP) betting.\n\nIn particular it refers to the invention of George Julius, the English-born, New Zealand educated, Australian inventor, engineer and businessman, though there have been other claimants, notably engineer Joseph G. Nash.\n\nThe term automatic refers to the fact that the bets were automatically summed and a ticket issued when a bet was registered on the issuing machines, and it provided a safe and virtually fraud-free method of betting, replacing the earlier jam-pot totes, which used either paper transactions or some method of counting bets like steel ball bearings. The machine did not actually calculate the payout.\n\nThe method was widely used in the Australian, New Zealand and American horse-racing industries and for greyhound racing in the UK, although there were other installations in countries as diverse as France, Venezuela and Singapore.\n\n\n"}
