{"id": "54016938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54016938", "title": "2017 Czech government crisis", "text": "2017 Czech government crisis\n\nA Czech government crisis began in May 2017, as a result of suspicions that the Minister of Finance, Andrej Babiš, also the leader of ANO 2011, a partner in the ruling coalition, had evaded taxes related to his business activities.\n\nIn March 2017, the Chamber of Deputies asked Andrej Babiš, leader of ANO 2011 and Minister of Finance, to explain his finances. In April 2017, he stated in a letter that all his financial activities have always been legal. Speaker of the chamber Jan Hamáček (ČSSD) said that he did not consider the explanation sufficient. On 2 May 2017, Prime Minister Bohuslav Sobotka (ČSSD) stated that Babiš should resign.\n\nBohuslav Sobotka announced on 2 May that he would resign, leading to the formation of a new cabinet which would not include Babiš. Babiš described Sobotka's decision as a \"dirty trick.\" Lubomír Zaorálek and Milan Chovanec (both ČSSD) were mentioned as possible replacements for Sobotka as Prime Minister. Sobotka initially planned to submit his resignation to President Miloš Zeman on 4 May 2017, but later decided to resign on 20 May, when Zeman returns from a visit to China. However, Zeman proceeded with the resignation ceremony nonetheless, which was considered a humiliation for Sobotka. Sobotka decided not to resign after the ceremony, and on 5 May 2017 he announced that he would instead dismiss Babiš from government.\n\nSobotka's decision was praised by the leaders of TOP 09, and KDU–ČSL. Petr Fiala, leader of ODS, called for a snap election, and stated that Sobotka's decision would only deepen the crisis. Various politicians stated that the resignation ceremony was shameful for the Czech Republic. Zeman announced on 8 May 2017 that he would not accept Babiš's removal from the government yet, and would make a final decision on his return from China. This decision was criticised by many politicians and lawyers as unconstitutional.\n\nOn 10 May 2017, a demonstration of 20,000 people was held in Prague against the actions of Zeman and Babiš, and other demonstrations were held around the country.\n\nZeman called a meeting of leaders of coalition parties in Liberec. Sobotka was unable to participate as he had gone to Luxembourg on 10 May, but Zeman met Chovanec, Babiš and Pavel Bělobrádek. Zeman presented the two possible solutions to the crisis as a new election, or a new government without Sobotka or Babiš. ANO 2011 stated that they were prepared to discuss a government that would not include Sobotka or Babiš. ČSSD and KDU-ČSL stated that they would consider a government without ANO.\n"}
{"id": "53811141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53811141", "title": "5uper.net", "text": "5uper.net\n\n5uper.net was an international artist group based in Austria that focused on artistic research at the intersection of media, arts, technology and society. The group was established in 2003 by Ile Cvetkoski, Matthias Tarasiewicz, Karina Lackner and Michal Wlodkowski and was responsible for developing the Coded Cultures festival series.\n\n"}
{"id": "4753937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4753937", "title": "Agrarian reform", "text": "Agrarian reform\n\nAgrarian reform can refer either, narrowly, to government-initiated or government-backed redistribution of agricultural land (see land reform) or, broadly, to an overall redirection of the agrarian system of the country, which often includes land reform measures. Agrarian reform can include credit measures, training, extension, land consolidations, etc. The World Bank evaluates agrarian reform using five dimensions: (1) stocks and market liberalization, (2) land reform (including the development of land markets), (3) agro-processing and input supply channels, (4) urban finance, (5) market institutions.\n\nBen Cousins defines the difference between agrarian reform and land reform as follows:\nLand reform… is concerned with rights in land, and their character, strength and distribution, while… [agrarian reform] focuses not only on these but also a broader set of issues: the class character of the relations of production and distribution in farming and related enterprises, and how these connect to the wider class structure. It is thus concerned economic and political power and the relations between them…\nAlong similar lines, a 2003 World Bank report states,\n…A key precondition for land reform to be feasible and effective in improving beneficiaries' livelihoods is that such programs fit into a broader policy aimed at reducing poverty and establishing a favourable environment for the development of productive smallholder agriculture by beneficiaries.\n\nExamples of other issues include \"tenure security\" for \"farm workers, labour tenants, … farm dwellers… [and] tenant peasants\", which makes these workers and tenants better prospects for receiving private-sector loans;\n\"infrastructure and support services\";\ngovernment support of \"forms of rural enterprise\" that are \"complementary\" to agriculture;\nand increased community participation of government decisions in rural areas.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34684421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34684421", "title": "Back-up beeper", "text": "Back-up beeper\n\nA back-up beeper also known as back-up alarm, backup beeper, or vehicle motion alarm, is a device originally intended to warn passers-by of a vehicle moving in reverse. They typically produce 1000 Hz pure tone beeps at 97-112 decibels, considerably higher than the long-term hearing loss limit of 80 decibels.\n\nAlthough originally intended as a warning device, often these alarms are used on vehicles in a situation whereby no-one is ever likely to be a passer-by. (For example, tractors in fields often use them even though no-one is ever walking behind the vehicle). The noise, however, can be heard up to away and disturbs residents and people within the vicinity but who will never be within the danger zone of the vehicle itself. In places, like the City of London, this noise pollution has led to a ban on the back-up beeper and alternatives must be used instead.\n\nMatsusaburo Yamaguchi of Yamaguchi Electric Company, Japan, invented the back-up beeper. It was first manufactured as model BA1 in 1963.\n\nBack-up beepers are criticized by the public and in scientific literature. Beepers top lists of complaints to government roadbuilders about road construction noise. There is published concern that people become habituated to the ubiquitous noise, diminishing its effectiveness. Strategies such as adjusting the volume according to the ambient noise and changing the tone to include sounds above 1600 Hz and below 800 Hz for improved localization would improve the alarm, but improvements are not cost-effective for the manufacturer and, if implemented by the equipment owner, introduce liability for the owner.\n\nBrains are not adapted for dealing with the repetitive and persistent sound of back-up beepers, but more towards natural sounds that dissipate. The sound is perceived as irritating or painful, which breaks concentration.\n\nIn some countries, such as the United Kingdom, back-up warning systems using blasts of white noise are becoming more common, and are obligatory for suppliers of some large construction projects. White noise does not have to be as loud as beeps in order to be able to be heard over background noise, and people can more easily hear from which direction the signal comes.\n\nWhile not addressing the criticism of the type of sound, units exist that moderate the volume based on sensing ambient sound.\n\nISO 6165 describes \"audible travel alarms\", and ISO 9533 describes how to measure the performance of the alarms. \n\nBack-up beepers or an observer are required by OSHA for earthmoving vehicles with an obstructed view to the rear and no one on the ground to help guide the driver. Alarms are typically loud because manufacturers do not know the ambient noise level where the machines will be used.\n\nThe relevant OSHA regulation is 29 CFR Part 1926.601(b)(4) which requires \"a reverse signal alarm audible above surrounding noise level\", but only when the motor vehicle has \"an obstructed view to the rear\". The determination of the noise level is left to the employer. However, because equipment is moved from place to place, the loudest alarms are often selected.\n\nNHTSA requires electric vehicle warning sounds to alert pedestrians in electric and hybrid vehicles manufactured after 2018, for both forward and reverse travel at low speeds.\n"}
{"id": "45551313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45551313", "title": "Coalition of African American Pastors", "text": "Coalition of African American Pastors\n\nCoalition of African American Pastors (CAAP) is an African-American civil rights and social-conservative non-profit organization. They advocate for religion in public life and against abortion and same-sex marriage.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43084828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43084828", "title": "Colorado Department of Health Care Policy and Financing", "text": "Colorado Department of Health Care Policy and Financing\n\nThe Colorado Department of Health Care Policy and Financing (HCPF) is the principal department of the Colorado state government responsible for administering the Medicaid and Child Health Plan Plus programs as well as a variety of other programs for Colorado's low-income families, the elderly, and persons with disabilities.\n"}
{"id": "6189998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6189998", "title": "Congress of the Council of Europe", "text": "Congress of the Council of Europe\n\nThe Congress of Local and Regional Authorities (CLRA) is the pan-European political assembly representing local and regional authorities from the forty-seven member states of the Council of Europe. Its role is to promote local and regional democracy, improve local and regional governance and strengthen authorities' self-government, according to the principles laid down in the European Charter of Local Self-Government. It is made up of two chambers, the Chamber of Local Authorities and the Chamber of Regions and holds its plenary sessions twice a year at the Palace of Europe in Strasbourg, where its permanent Secretariat is located.\n\nThe Congress of Local and Regional Authorities assembly is constituted by 648 members which hold elective office (they may be regional or municipal councilors, mayors or presidents of regional authorities) representing over 200,000 authorities in different states. It encourages the devolution and regionalization processes, as well as the trans frontier co-operation between cities and regions The Congress conducts regular monitoring visits to all member states to appraise their implementation of the European Charter of Local Self-Government, observes the functioning of local and regional elections in its member states and creates international treaties that lay down common European standards to protect local authorities’ rights.\n\nThe present Congress of Local and Regional Authorities was established on 14 January 1994 with the Statutory Resolution 94(3) of the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe. However, the history of the Congress reflects the already fifty-year history of the development of local and regional democracy in Europe.\n\nThe Congress’ predecessor, the Conference of Local Authorities of Europe was first established at the Council of Europe in 1957. It held its first session on 12 January 1957 in Strasbourg presided by the prominent French statesman Jacques Chaban-Delmas, who was President of the Conference from January 1957 to January 1960. In 1975 the Committee of Ministers established the Conference of Local and Regional Authorities of Europe that brought together also representatives of European regions, not only local authorities, thus replacing and enhancing the Conference of Local Authorities.\nIn 1979 it became the Standing Conference of Local and Regional Authorities of Europe. Six years later, in 1985, the Standing Conference adopted the European Charter of Local Self-Government, recognizing the increasing role of the development of local democracy, which has become one of the most important achievements of the organization. The Charter was opened for signature in October 1985 and has since been signed by all Council of Europe member states. In 1994 the Standing Conference asked the Committee of Ministers to further enhance its statute, and the Standing Conference was transformed into the present Congress of Local and Regional Authorities.\nIn 2005, during the Warsaw Summit, the Heads of State and Government of the member states of the Council of Europe reasserted the importance of local and regional democracy for Europe and underlined the major role of the Congress in its mission, again supporting its mandate.\nIn October 2010, the Congress adopted a comprehensive reform of its structures and activities meant to increase the impact of its action and make it more effective and more relevant to European citizens and their elected representatives. In particular, the structural changes included the creation of three new committees, to replace the existing previous four: a Monitoring Committee, a Governance Committee and a Current Affairs Committee. Moreover, a Statutory Forum was set up, the mandate of Congress members extended from two to four years, and the 30-per cent requirement for women’s representation in national delegations applied also to substitute members. The role of the Bureau as the executive body of the Congress was strengthened, and the adopted texts subject to a clearer and more concrete follow-up procedure.\nIn the light of this reform, the Committee of Minister adopted a revised version of the Statutory Resolution and the Charter of the Congress in January 2011. The Congress adopted its new Rules of Procedure in March 2012. In October 2012 it adopted its priorities 2013-2016. These priorities are focused on 5 areas: monitoring of local and regional democracy, observation of local and regional elections, targeted post-monitoring and post-observation assistance, the local and regional dimension of human rights and streamlined thematic activities.\n\nAs political Assembly of local and regional elected representatives, the Congress is the voice of Europe’s 200,000 regions and municipalities. It promotes the strengthening of local and regional democracy in all Council of Europe member States.\nThe Congress carries out monitoring missions of the local and regional authorities in member states and prepares reports on the situation in the State concerned. These reports and the draft resolutions and recommendations they contain are submitted to the plenary sessions which debate them in the presence of high representatives of the governments before adopting them. The recommendations are then forwarded to the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe which gives them the appropriate follow up whenever needed.\nIt also observes local and regional elections. After an observation mission it drafts a report and a recommendation which are also submitted to the sessions for adoption.\n\nFurthermore, it prepares thematic reports which, together with a recommendation and/or a resolution, are debated during its sessions.\n\nTo fulfill its objectives the Congress cooperates with various partners: national associations, international associations, observers, civil societyand other institutional partners such as the Committee of Regions of the European Union.\n\nThe Priorities can be found here.\n\nAs part of its monitoring of regional democracy in Europe, the Congress maintains a regular dialogue with member states of the Council of Europe. The Committee of Ministers, which includes the 47 Foreign Ministers of these states, the Conference of Ministers responsible for local and regional authorities, as well as its Steering Committees - are the main partners in this regard. Several times a year the President and the Secretary General of the Congress provide the Representatives of the member states in the Committee of Ministers with a record of its activities and hold an exchange of views. The Congress also has direct contacts and exchanges with national governments, in particular, on the occasion of official visits in the member states, during the plenary sessions, or during follow-up or post-monitoring visits in the country itself. More information on dialogue with governments can be found here.\n\nThe Bureau of the Congress, which consists of the members of the Chamber of Local Authorities and the Chamber of Regions under the leadership of the Congress President (Gudrun Mosler-Törnström since October 2016), is responsible for organising the plenary sessions, the coordination of the work of the two chambers and the committees, as well as organising the monitoring and election observation missions, the budget and all questions that need to be treated in between two plenary sessions.\n\n\nComplete list of Congress Bureau members\n\nThe main task of the Chamber of Local Authorities is to assess the situation of local democracy and observe local elections based on the European Charter of Local Self-Government. The Chamber also handles social issues and supports the cooperation of European cities, such as intercultural dialogues, e-democracy, or multiculturalism. It promotes the principles of local democracy outside Europe, inter alia through Euro-Arab dialogue between cities and Euro-Mediterranean co-operation. At its meetings, which take place twice a year during the Plenary Sessions, the Chamber of Local Authorities holds thematic debates on issues such as the fight against radicalisation, cities against terrorism, migrations, the protection of cultural heritage and adopts recommendations and resolutions..\nIf necessary, the Chamber of Local Authorities can also require a member to write a report to a relevant question of his or her expertise. The Chamber of Local Authorities must examine issues that are relevant to its jurisdiction, namely substantive and current issues relating to the local dimension in Europe, and if necessary may raise a debate during a Congress session. A list of the members of this Chamber can be found here.\n\nThe Chamber of Regions consists of representatives of authorities that act between the local and central levels of government. The authority must have either self-governing or state-like powers. It must effectively be able to take full responsibility for a substantial share of matters of public concern, in the interest of its community, and it has to take into account the principle of subsidiarity. The Chamber of Regions meets twice a year during the plenary sessions of the Congress, holds debates on issues such as the regionalisation in Europe, and adopts resolutions and recommendations. It deals with the role of regions within the member states of the Congress, regional democracy, inter-regional cooperation and regional economy, among others. The members of this Chamber can be found here.\n\nWith the adoption of the revised Charter of the Congress on 19 January 2011, the former Standing Committee was replaced by the Statutory Forum. This Forum is composed of heads of all national delegations together with the members of the Bureau of Congress. The Forum acts on behalf of the Congress between sessions and may be convened at any time by the President of the Congress, as he deems necessary.\n\nIn October 2010, the Congress set up three committees: the Monitoring Committee, the Governance Committee and the Current Affairs Committee. These Committees prepare most of the reports which are submitted to the Chambers or to the Plenary Sessions.\n\nThe Monitoring Committee was established to follow the implementation of the commitment and obligations of the member states to the European Charter of Local Self-Government. It organises monitoring visits and drafts reports and recommendations on the situation of the local and regional democracy in the member states concerned. It encourages member states to evaluate the situation of local democracy, in relation to the Charter, and identifies the obstacles that prevent them from implementing it fully. The members of this Committee can be found here.\n\nThe Governance Committee is responsible for affairs relating to the Congress’ statutory mandate. These include public finance, cross border and inter-regional co-operation and e-democracy as well as co-operation with intergovernmental bodies. The site of the Congress contains a list with the members of this Committee.\n\nThe Current Affairs Committee deals with the role of regional and local governments in light of the challenges of modern society. It works on thematic issues, such as inclusive societies and citizen participation, education, interreligious and intercultural dialogue, protection of children from sexual abuse, youth participation, integration of migrants, from the point of view of the core values of the Council of Europe. The members of this Committee can be found on the site of the Congress.\n\nThe Group of Independent Experts helps the three statutory committees to carry out their responsibilities in local and regional democracy, in regards to the European Charter. The experts are recruited from universities and other research centers based on their expertise in law, economics, or political science and have a renewable term of four years. The Group of Independent Experts is mandated to assist the Congress in :\n\n1. Preparing reports on the condition of local and regional democracy within the member states (monitoring reports)\n\n2. Preparing reports about specific aspects of the Charter within a member state, or a group of members states (specific monitoring reports)\n\n3. Preparing reports on a specific point in the Charter, which poses problems regarding compliance with the Charter(research reports)\n\n4. Preparing reports on issues of concern for local and regional authorities\n\n5. Preparing reports on the promotion of local and regional democracy\n\nThe Congress Secretariat is headed by the Secretary General, who is elected for five years by the plenary meeting of Congress. Currently the Secretary General is Andreas Kiefer (reelected in March 2015) and is supported by the Congress Director, Jean-Philippe Bozouls. The Secretariat of the two chambers of Congress will be occupied by two executive secretaries, who are appointed by the Secretary General after consultation with the Congress. The Chamber of Local Authorities is currently led by Executive Secretary a.i Renate Zikmund (since 2016), and the Chamber of Regions is led by Executive Secretary Maria Ochoa-LLido (since 2016).\n\nThe Congress is formed of national delegations made up of representatives of local and regional authorities of the 47 member States of the Council of Europe, who are either directly elected or are politically accountable to a directly elected assembly. The membership of each member state’s delegation ensures a balanced geographical distribution of territories, equitable representation of the various types of local and regional authorities and political forces, and equitable representation of women and men. Each member state has the right to the same number of seats in the Congress as in the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe. Apart from full members, the delegations are also made of substitutes (who work in the same capacity). A list of the national delegations and their member can be found on the Congress site.\n\nAccording to its statute, the Congress consists of 324 representatives (and 324 substitutes) from each member state, as follows:\nThe political groups within the Congress ensure an equitable representation, in terms of political, geographical and gender balance in each delegation. The Congress Charter sets a minimum of representation of 30% for the under-represented sex for each delegation.\nThere are four political groups within the Congress, as well as Congress members not affiliated with any political group:\n• SOC – Socialist Party\n• EPP/CCE – European People’s Party / Christian Democrats\n• ILDG – Independent and Liberal Democratic Group\n• ECR – European Conservatives and Reformists\nThe Congress meets twice a year for the plenary sessions, which are held in Strasbourg during May and October. The sessions for each Chamber are held during the plenary sessions. Every two years, the Congress appoints a President from among the representatives, or full members. \n\nSee the Congress site for recent information on the political groups.\n\nThe core mission of the Congress of Local and Regional Authorities is the effective monitoring of the situation of local and regional democracy in member states by assessing the application of the European Charter of Local Self-Government. Through this process of monitoring, the Congress contributes, at territorial level, to the main objectives of the Council of Europe, which are to advance democracy and human rights on the continent. Monitoring is also part of an ongoing political dialogue with the different levels of governance in the State concerned.\n\nThe Congress undertakes:\n• regular general country-by-country monitoring missions;\n• the examination of a particular aspect of the Charter;\n• fact-finding missions to look into specific cases of concern;\nFollowing monitoring visits, the Monitoring Committee draws up reports and recommendations to member states on how to improve the management of municipalities and regions. These recommendations are debated and adopted during the sessions of the Congress. More information and examples of recently adopted texts in this area can be found here.\n\nThe observation of the local and regional elections is an important aspect of the tasks of the Congress, which complements the monitoring activities. The observation missions are conducted at the official request of the national authorities concerned; the Congress sets up a delegation made of Congress members and members of the Committee of the Regions (some 10-15 people). At the close of the observation mission a preliminary statement by the Congress delegation is made. Then a report that includes an analysis of the election campaign, voting day, and recommendations/improvements to be made is prepared and submitted to the session of the Congress. The Congress collaborates with institutions of the Council of Europe such as the Parliamentary Assembly and the Venice Commission. The details of the procedure are set out in Congress resolution\nMore information on the observation of elections can be found on Congress site,\n\nIn March 2013 the Congress adopted Resolution 353(2013) on post-monitoring and post-observation of elections. The aim isto develop the political dialogue with Member States and relevant stakeholders after a monitoring or election observation visit, in order to ensure the effectiveness and impact of its monitoring and election observation activities.\nAs follow up to its recommendations the Congress discusses with the authorities of the member State a roadmap to improve local and regional democracy in line with these recommendations. The first roadmap prepared in the framework of this post-monitoring dialogue concerned the decentralisation reform undertaken by the Ukrainian authorities and was signed in May 2015.\n\nIn its Priorities 2013-2016, the Congress decided to further develop co-operation and partnerships with the overall objective to consolidate and advance territorial democracy in the Council of Europe member states and in its immediate neighbourhood and achieve concrete results in the field. These cooperation activities help to further ensure the implementation of the European Charter of Local Self-Government and the Congress recommendations. The Congress offers its expertise, in the field of local and regional democracy, based on needs, its members being a pool of practical and political experience. Its activities include:\nThe Congress develops its projects within the chapter on Democracy in the Council of Europe Action Plans for member States. These projects are co-financed through voluntary contributions of member states and international partners.\n\nThe Congress is also active in the neighbourhood policy of the Council of Europe. This policy is aimed at helping neighbouring regions to improve democracy, the rule of law and human rights protection. As an example, priorities for co-operation in Morocco and Tunisia include local governance.\nIn the past the Congress has been active in strengthening local democracy and trans-border co-operation in Europe. It has encouraged the creation of associations of local authorities and created several networks which have now evolved independently and which are privileged partners of the Congress. Examples of these Associations are the Association of Local Democracy Agencies (ALDA), the Network of Associations of Local Authorities of South-East Europe (NALAS) and the European Network of Local and Regional Training Establishments (ENTO).\n\nThe European Alliance of Cities and Regions for Roma Inclusion was set up by the Congress of Local and Regional Authorities with the support of Special Representative of the Council of Europe Secretary General for Roma Issues. More than 120 cities and regions from over 27 countries are participating in the Alliance.\nThe Alliance aims to achieve these objectives:\nThe Alliance organises national and international seminars for its participating cities and regions in order to facilitate the exchange of know-how and good practices.\n\nOne of the key priorities of the Alliance is the promotion of the Roma culture and raising awareness and knowledge about the Roma Genocide during World War II and the international commemoration day on the 2nd of August.\n\nAnother important initiative of the Council of Europe, aimed at fighting antigypsyism, is the Dosta! Campaign, run on a national level in the member states. As of 2013, the Alliance is in charge of administrating the Dosta! Congress Prize, awarded biannually to three municipalities for their successful and innovative projects in the field of Roma inclusion.\n\nIn 2013-2014 the Alliance implemented the first stage of the project named ROMACT. Around 30 cities and regions were engaged in activities, consisting of preparation work, including data collection and analysis, thematic workshops, study visits, exchange of information, opportunities for networking and developing partnerships, consultative work.\nOther activities of the ROMACT The project ended in late 2014 with a major evaluation conference of cities and regions as well as local, national and international stakeholders.\n\nThe Alliance has its own website with more information on its activities.\n\nThe ONE in FIVE Campaign of the Council of Europe sets out to promote the signature and ratification of the Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse, also known as the Lanzarote Convention. The Campaign’s goals are to make children aware of the gravity and different types of sexual violence and abuse, and to prevent them. The Congress is ensuring the local and regional dimensions of the Campaign and has launched a Pact of Towns and Regions to Stop Sexual Violence against Children. The Pact proposes the ‘four Ps’ approach: to prevent abuse, protect victims, prosecute perpetrators while ensuring the full participation of children in the entire process. All services and actions must be respectful of children’s rights, put the child’s best interest first, and enable children’s voices to be heard, in order to deliver locally what children and families need to stop sexual violence and sexual abuse, as well as to bring perpetrators to justice. The Congress promotes this Pact with cities and regions and encourages them to sign and implement it in the field.\n\nThe Congress has developed an institutional partnership with the Committee of the Regions (CoR) of the European Union, regular meetings and coordination between the respective members and secretariats take place. The cooperation between the Congress and the Committee of the Regions is in place since the creation of the CoR in 1994. A ‘Contact Group Congress/Committee of the Regions’, that meets twice per year, was established in 1995. The Contact Group coordinates the two institutions’ efforts and provides feedback on their activities. The Congress and CoR members exchange views and implement common strategies. Since 2006 it is possible for members of the CoR to be part of an elections observation mission of the Congress. Nowadays, this happens systematically and members of the CoR are involved in the whole observation process. The Congress also pursues an active cooperation with the Commission for Citizenship, Governance, Institutional and External Affairs (CIVEX) and the Conference of regional organizations and local authorities for the Eastern partnership (CORLEAP), both established by the CoR in order to enhance the relations between the EU and its neighbouring countries in the area of local and regional self-governance. The neighbouring states involved are often Member States of the Congress and the Congress is involved in activities of these entities, as well. More information on the cooperation between the Congress and the COR can be found on both the site of the Congress and on the site of the COR.\n\nThe Congress is also involved with several organizations and associations of European municipalities and regions enhancing local and regional democracy by developing joint activities. Examples of these organizations are the Assembly of European Regions (AER), the Council of European Municipalities and Regions (CEMR), the Association of European Border Regions (AEBR) and the Conference of European Regional Legislative Assemblies (CALRE). The Congress can be represented at meetings or events of these organizations and makes its policies and priorities known, in particular when they fall within the scope of these organisations’ fields of activities.\n\nNational (and European) associations of local and regional authorities play a role in promoting local democracy which is vital to the work of the Congress of the Council of Europe. They deliver information about Congress activities across to their countries, particularly by lobbying in their governments. They also, in some cases, play a part in the procedure whereby their country's national delegation to the Congress is designated. National associations play an active part in implementation of the provisions of the European Charter of Local Self-Government, denouncing abuses and possible violations and thus acting as an \"early warning system\"and a peaceful counterweight. The site of the Congress contains more information on national associations.\n\nInternational associations of local and regional authorities which have a consultative status with the Council of Europe also have observer status with the Congress. Observer status may also be granted to other associations on application to the Bureau of the Congress.. This status gives them the right to take part in the work of the Congress, submit memoranda and comment on issues discussed at plenary sessions, but not to vote. One or more representatives of organizations with observer status may be invited to attend meetings of the Statutory Forum, the Bureau, the Committees or ad hoc working groups.\n\nOfficial website of the Congress of Local and Regional Authorities\n\nOfficial website of the Council of Europe\n\nOfficial website of the ALDA\n\nOfficial website of the NALAS\n\nOfficial website of the ENTO\n\nOfficial website of the Roma Alliance\n\nOfficial website of the ONE in FIVE Campaign\n\nOfficial website of the Committee of the Regions\n\nOfficial website of the AER\n\nOfficial website of the CEMR\n\nOfficial website of the AEBR\n\nOfficial website of the CALRE\n\nPriorities of the Congress 2013-2016\n\nStatutary Resolution 94(3)\n\nStatutary Resolution (2011)2 and the revised Charter of the Conress\n\nRules of Procedure\n\nResolution 307(2010)on the monitoring procedure\n\nResolution 306(2010) on the observation of elections\n\nResolution 353(2013)on post-monitoring and post-observation dialogue\n"}
{"id": "18999641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18999641", "title": "Consumer activism", "text": "Consumer activism\n\nConsumer activism is a process by which activists seek to influence the way in which goods or services are produced or delivered. Kozinets and Handelman attempt to define the broad concept as any social movement that uses society's drive for consumption to the detriment of business interests. Consumer activism includes both activism on behalf of consumers for consumer protection and activism by consumers themselves. Consumerism is made up of the behaviors, institutions, and ideologies created from the interaction between humans and materials and services of which they consume. Consumer activism has several aims: \n\nHistorian Lawrence B. Glickman identifies the free produce movement of the late 1700s as the beginning of consumer activism in the United States. Like members of the British abolitionist movement, free produce activists were consumers themselves, and under the idea that consumers share in the responsibility for the consequences of their purchases, boycotted goods produced with slave labor in an attempt to end slavery. Other early consumer activism included the creation of consumer cooperatives in Northwestern England in 1844 as a measure against local monopolies and high commodity prices.\n\nActivism on the behalf of the consumer began around the 20th Century in the United States, in what scholars Tim Lang and Yiannis Gabriel term the \"value-for-consumer\" wave, and which sociologist Hayagreeva Rao calls the antiadulteration movement. It was during this time that consumer organizations began to emerge in the United States, starting with a Consumers League in New York in 1891 which merged with other regional branches to form the National Consumers League in 1898. One of the first consumer protection laws in the United States and worldwide, the Pure Food and Drug Act, was passed in 1906. More legislation around the world followed. During this time consumer-led activism like boycotts continued, largely in response to domestic and international socio-political concerns.\n\nThe publication of \"Unsafe at Any Speed\" by Ralph Nader in 1965 gave rise to a new type of legal-focused, anti-corporate activism. Whereas past activism had focused on the consequences of consumer actions and the protection of consumers, Lang and Gabriel argue the activism inspired by Ralph Nader and others is more confrontational toward the market. From the 1990s and into the 21st century, consumer activism has been closely associated with sharp critiques of globalization and the damaging effects of concentrated corporate power.\n\nConsumer activism seeks to change some aspect of the way in which goods or services are produced in order to make the production process safer, more ethical, more environmentally friendly, and to make the products themselves safer and of better quality, or more available to consumers. As a result, consumer activism challenges existing corporate practices in order to effect a direct change in production, or attempts to modify some aspect of the behavior of consumers themselves.\n\nScholars Robert V. Kozinets and Jay M. Handelman find that consumer activism needs three factors: \"a goal, a self-representation, and an adversary.\" In this model, the goal is the change consumer activists wish to effect in the way goods or services are produced or in the way consumers themselves approach consumption. Consumer activists may frame the purchase of a good or service as a moral choice, with the consumer partly responsible for aspects of the production. In this way, consumer activists attempt to influence the behavior of consumers by getting them to consider their consumption choices in an ethical light, and portray consumer activism as a movement among consumers, themselves included, for a common good. Consumer activists may also be part of various consumer organizations or portray themselves as members of a larger consumer movement.\n\nThe targets of consumer activism are often corporations that support causes or practices consumer activists find unethical. Corporations are made the recipients of consumer activism based on an aspect of the way in which they do business or because of organizations they choose to support, financially or otherwise. Religious terms, such as David and Goliath, may be used in rhetoric to motivate non-activist consumers to join in the activism. Activists may target multiple corporations and describe them as their rival. Consumer activism may also target the state in order to implement some form of regulation for consumer protection.\n\nConsumer activist tactics can include boycotts, petitioning the government, media activism, and organizing interest groups. Boycotts are especially prevalent among consumer activists within environmental and animal rights activist groups. According to research from Eastern Michigan University, boycotts that are media-orientated rather than marketplace-orientated are preferred. This means the nature of the boycott did not target actual consumption, by demonstrating in front of a storefront for example, but instead demonstrations are orientated to getting media attention by demonstrating in front of the rival headquarters. Consumer boycotts are effective at damaging a brand's reputation, however, and can result in short term dips in a company's stock prices. While these dips may be forgettable in terms of the company's overall revenue, especially when the company may be among the top global brands, these boycotts can quickly gain attention and cause fast mobilization due to the rapid pace of information spreading across the internet and even be successful in seeing through policy change or restructure in leadership if the boycott represents a major societal issue or movement instead of an isolated, independent effort. They are known to be successful when the issue the boycott is targeting is simple and easy to understand, with low cost of mobilization and many alternatives for consumers to turn toward. Boycotts are occasionally criticized for being ineffective but the media appeal and a few big successes from groups like PETA have sustained their popularity.\n\nThe Internet plays a major role in modern consumer activism, allowing widespread consumer interest groups to support each other in their efforts to resist globalized consumption patterns. This is especially true as anti-brand and anti-corporation groups seek to create a coordinated opposition as multinational and interregional as the opposed business. Often these communities provide a crucial central place to accumulate and share resources and information In these and other strategies, consumer activists seek to increase the exposure of their cause and to gain political support. The speed, convenience, and propensity for coalition building make the internet an ideal place for consumers to run their activism. Overall, the Internet allows for more mobilization by supporters, both inside and outside the group, to protest and get their message heard.\n\nActivist boycotts function under the model that a consumer's money serves as a vote of support for the business from which they bought something, a model which adds a higher degree of social responsibility for the consumer as they must be knowledgeable in a company and it's competition's policies and stances in order to make the most informed decisions each time they make a purchase. It may be noted that this boycott tactic is not more commonly utilized by or slanted toward any specific political party in the United States as there are many boycott efforts that champion both conservative and liberal stances.\n\nDescribed as the \"granddaddy of all activist campaigns\" Nike came under fire for utilizing subcontracted international factories to produce their products. Nike sweatshops became notorious for subpar working conditions and substandard pay. The reaction to this news resulted in an onslaught of activism that laid the foundation for modern consumer activism.\n\nIn 2001 and in 2002 various movements arose where consumers protested against Starbucks. Their demands were that Starbucks stop using GMOs and start making their coffee from fair trade certified beans. As a result, Starbucks started using Fair Trade coffee in over 2,300 outlets.\n\nGreenpeace found that palm oil production used in Kit Kats was destroying the rainforests and habitats of orangutans. Through massive social media activity, Greenpeace forced Kit Kat to cut all ties with Sinar Mas Group, the company that was providing the palm oil. Kit Kat later pledged to use only rainforest-sustainable palm oil by 2015. This movement is hailed as a notable success in consumer activism.\n\nAfter the ban on immigration from seven predominantly Muslim countries to the United States was imposed under the Donald Trump presidency in January 2017, protests arose in many airports of the country. In JFK airport, the car service company Uber was criticized for not canceling their service and allegedly using the event to gain profits during a Taxi Workers Alliance protest. This led to a twitter campaign of #deleteuber where over 200,000 users deleted the app. Later it was announced that the CEO of uber Travis Kalanick would leave his position as advisor in the economic advisory council of president Trump due to criticism over Trump and the travel ban, otherwise known as Executive Order 13769.\n\nAfter releasing their new winter-themed set of Christmas cups in 2015, Donald Trump declared a suggestion to boycott Starbucks Coffee. Trump hinted at the fact that the Starbucks cup no longer resembled the Christmas season with typical Christmas characters like Christmas trees, gifts, santa, etc., and this is what he may be referencing during the boycott. Trump was an influence in this movement as a presidential candidate in 2015, and in this same speech he hinted that Starbucks was removing the Christmas out of the Christmas-holiday season. Starbucks has been the target of major backlash from conservatives Trump supporters in 2017 as Starbucks CEO Howard Schultz spoke out in favor of employing refugees at various locations of the coffee shop chain after Trump proposed a travel ban targeted towards stopping Muslim Middle Eastern refugees from entering the United States.\n\nThe anti-Trump boycott was created by Susan Coulter in October 2016 in attempts to protest against Donald Trump. The movement includes boycotting all stores and companies that cary Trump affiliated items, such as Ivanka Trump's shoe line. The boycott didn't only include clothing stores, but also included TV shows, such as The New Celebrity Apprentice, which was formerly hosted by Donald Trump.\n\nDonald Trump: Donald Trump played a large role in promoting various consumer boycotts and consumer activist situations, such as with the Starbucks Boycott, where Trump suggested a boycott due to the Christmas cup controversy, as well as calling for a boycott of the NFL due to kneeling protests of police brutality against people of color during the national anthem in 2017.\n\nLena Dunham: After the company Uber removed price surges following a taxi hour of solidarity for the immigration ban at the JFK airport, there was almost instantly a backlash from thousands of Uber users to delete the app, and Dunham engaged in the boycott by sending out a tweet indicating that she had deleted the app.\n\nKelly Ellis: Software engineer Kelly Ellis proposed a boycott of Twitter over a controversial suspension of actress Rose McGowan's Twitter account. The boycott included the hashtag \"#WomenBoycottTwitter.\" Rose McGowan's account was suspended after Tweeting about an accused sexual harasser within the Hollywood celebrity community, and breaking Twitter rules over posting personal information.\n\nGeorge Takei: After the surge of 2017 Uber boycott's, Takei made a Tweet on Twitter addressing the events, comparing Uber to a different ride-sharing app, and including the hashtag \"#DeleteUber\" at the end of his Tweet.\n\nJesse Williams: After the 2017 Uber boycott at the John F Kennedy International Airport, Actor Jesse Williams took to Twitter sharing a screenshot of himself deleting the Uber app and including the hashtag \"#DeleteUber\" in his Tweet.\n\nSome activists perceive the consumer public as unthinking, ignorant, and routine in their thoughts of consumption. Activist accounts describe these people as unreflective and unwilling to \"consider\" their habits and lifestyles. They may be believed to not insert moral or social ideas into their consumption. Other perceptions of customers are also expressed by activists, including the idea that consumers are submissive to corporations. The activists themselves may be described as dominating and oppressive to the consuming public.\n\nOpponents of consumer activism often represent business interests. Some businesses have brought lawsuits against consumer groups for making negative comments about their products or services. Many of the suits have been successfully defended as exercises in free speech. Some cases against consumer activists have been dismissed under anti-SLAPP laws.\n\nNotable consumer activists include Carol Foreman, Marc Kasky, Richard Kessel, Virginia H. Knauer, Eileen Hoats, Ralph Nader, Frances Perkins, Michael Pertschuk, and Peter A. Peyser.\n\nNotable consumer organizations include Grahak Shakti (India), Public Citizen, Consumers Union, and Consumer Federation of America. These organizations protect consumer rights by testing products and helping consumers make informed choices. The Consumers Union participates in consumer activism with hundreds of thousands of \"e-advocates\" who write letters to policy makers. Early versions of consumer organizations were similar to trade unions in how they would boycott to try to improve the marketplace for the consumer.\n\nThe CEO of Basecamp, a Chicago-based tech company, chose to boycott Uber in 2017 by no longer reimbursing company and employee Uber rides, giving incentive to use other ridesharing apps. Jason Fried, the company’s CEO, stated that making the decision to boycott Uber was easy, especially after the Susan J. Fowler controversy in early 2017, and for Fried, it was a matter of morals.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55333449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55333449", "title": "Content Threat Removal", "text": "Content Threat Removal\n\nContent Threat Removal (CTR) is a cyber security technology that defeats the threat posed by handling digital content in cyber space. Unlike other defences, including antivirus software and sandboxed execution, it does not rely on being able to detect threats. Similarly to Content Disarm and Reconstruction, CTR removes the threat without knowing whether it has done so, and acts without knowing if data contains a threat or not.\n\nDetection strategies work by detecting unsafe content, and then blocking or removing that content. Content that is deemed safe is delivered to its destination. In contrast, Content Threat Removal assumes all data is hostile and delivers none of it to the destination, regardless of whether it is actually hostile. Although no data is delivered, the business information carried by the data is delivered, but using new data created for the purpose.\n\nAdvanced attacks continuously defeat defences that are based on detection. These are often referred to as zero day attacks, because as soon as they are discovered attack detection mechanisms must be updated to identify and neutralise the attack, and until they are, all systems are unprotected. These attacks succeed because attackers are skilled in finding new ways of evading detection. Polymorphic code can be used to evade the detection of known unsafe data and sandbox detection allows attacks to evade dynamic analysis.\n\nA Content Threat Removal defence works by intercepting data on its way to its destination. The business information carried by the data is extracted and the data is discarded. Then entirely new, clean and safe data is built to carry the information to its destination.\n\nThe effect of building new data to carry the business information is that any unsafe elements of the original data are left behind and discarded. This includes executable data, macros, scripts and malformed data that triggers vulnerabilities in applications.\n\nWhile CTR is a form of content transformation, not all transformations provide a complete defence against the content threat.\n\nCTR is applicable to user-to-user traffic, such as email and chat, and machine-to-machine traffic, such as web services. Data transfers can be intercepted by in-line application layer proxies and these can transform the way information content is delivered to remove any threat.\n\nCTR works by extracting business information from data and it is not possible to extract information from executable code. This means CTR is not directly applicable to web browsing, since most web pages are code. It can, however, be applied to content that is downloaded from, and uploaded to, web sites.\n\nAlthough most web pages cannot be transformed to render them safe, web browsing can be isolated and the remote access protocols used to reach the isolated environment can be subjected to CTR.\n\nCTR provides a solution to the problem of Stegware. It naturally removes detectable steganography and eliminates symbiotic and permutation steganography through normalisation.\n\nDeep Secure have pioneered the development of CTR. A number of their products and services incorporate CTR, including application layer proxies for email and web services and ICAP (the Internet Content Adaptation Protocol) sidecar servers for uploaded and downloaded content.\n\nGarrison provide a remote Desktop isolation solution where the display content is converted to a video signal that is then recoded as a video stream, using separate hardware chips. This process removes any threat from the content of the display content.\n\n"}
{"id": "23531786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23531786", "title": "Contingent interest", "text": "Contingent interest\n\nA contingent interest is an interest which is uncertain, either as to the person who will enjoy it in possession or as to the event on which it will arise. 57 Am J1st Wills § 1217.\n\nA future interest is contingent where the person to whom or the event upon which it is limited to take effect in possession or become a vested estate is uncertain. Caine v Payne, 86 App DC 404, 182 F2d 246, 20 ALR2d 823. If the condition upon which a future interest depends is precedent, the interest is contingent; if the condition is subsequent, the interest is vested, subject to defeasance. Anno: 131 ALR 712.\n"}
{"id": "1727790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1727790", "title": "Cultural attaché", "text": "Cultural attaché\n\nA cultural attaché is a diplomat with the responsibility of promoting the culture of his or her homeland. Historically, the post has often been filled by writers and artists, giving them a steady income, and allowing them to develop their own creative work, while promoting their own country's culture abroad.\n\n"}
{"id": "1691630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1691630", "title": "DOI-CODI", "text": "DOI-CODI\n\nThe Departamento de Operações de Informações - Centro de Operações de Defesa Interna () was the Brazilian intelligence and repression agency during the military government (1964–1985). This period started on March 31, 1964 with the removal of the civilian government by military forces and ended in 1984. DOI-CODI was responsible for suppressing internal dissent against the regime. It acted as a political police, using torture and other counter-insurgency methods, with a focus on anti-communism. Several political activists, intellectuals, artists, college students and journalists were interrogated and at times tortured by the DOI-CODI throughout its existence.\n\nThe first DOI unit started in São Paulo as a private organization called \"OBAN - Bandeirante Operation\" ( – OBAN). OBAN was an illegal organization created using members of the federal police, civil state police, military state police and select members of the armed forces. It was financed by private and corporate entities.\n\nEach state had a DOI unit subordinated to CODI, which had the role of centralizing the operations. The DOI units' composition mirrored that of the previous OBAN.\n\nThe largest DOI-CODI, that of São Paulo, had at its peak nearly 250 agents, occupying a large building on Tutóia street. The building gained the infamous nickname of \"Tutóia Hilton\" (after the Hanoi Hilton of Vietnam) due to the extensive torture which took place in its basement.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4388027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4388027", "title": "Dor (political party)", "text": "Dor (political party)\n\nDor (, lit. \"Generation who Built the Land\", formerly known as Gil (an acronym for \"Gimla'ey Yisrael LaKnesset\" (Hebrew: גימלאי ישראל לכנסת), lit. \"Pensioners of Israel to the Knesset\") is a center political party in Israel and was part of the governing coalition in the seventeenth Knesset. In the 2009 elections, Gil did not receive sufficient votes for representation in the Knesset. In preparation for the 2013 elections, the party took on Efraim Lapid as the chairperson and revamped its image into Dor.\n\nThe party has been in existence in some form since the 1990s. It ran in the 1996 elections under the name Pensioners of Israel (, \"Gimla'ey Israel\"), led by former Labour MK Nava Arad and including modern-day Gil MK Moshe Sharoni on its list. However, the party failed to cross the electoral threshold and did not win a seat. It did not contest the 1999 or January 2003 elections, though an unrelated party, \"Power for Pensioners\" did run in the 1999 elections, failing to win a seat. Later in 2003, Power for Pensioners won a surprise victory in the municipal elections in Tel Aviv, defeating the party of mayor Ron Huldai.\n\nThe party announced that it would compete in the 2006 elections, and although opinion polls suggested that it might break the 2% threshold, it was not considered a serious contender for a significant number of seats. However, the party was the surprise package of the elections, and managed to win almost 186,000 votes and seven seats.\n\nMuch of the party's support came in the way of a protest vote among the young, particularly in Tel Aviv where nearly one in ten voters voted for the party. The party had actually encouraged voters to vote for their party rather than submit a blank ballot. Elderly Ashkenazi voters switching from the Labour after Amir Peretz's victory in the leadership contest may also have been a factor. The party was later fined 62,000 shekels for violating campaign financing laws.\n\nAs a result of the coalition talks with Kadima, Gil agreed to become a division of the Kadima party in return for the Health ministry and the newly created Ministry of Pensioners Affairs. Party leader Rafi Eitan became Minister of Pensioners Affairs, and Yaakov Ben-Yezri became Health Minister. Ben-Yezri, a confessed smoker, later caused controversy when he lit up during a television interview.\n\nOn 2 July 2008 three MKs (Moshe Sharoni, Elhanan Glazer and Sarah Marom-Shalev) left the party to establish the Justice for the Elderly faction. The new faction merged back into Gil on 27 October 2008, though Elhanan Glazer established another new faction, The Right Way instead of rejoining Gil.\n\nIn the 2009 election, as Gil, the party received 17,571 votes (0.52%) losing all of its seats in the Knesset. The party ran as Dor in the 2013 election and fell to 5,975 votes (0.16%).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3404067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3404067", "title": "E (Mrs) v Eve", "text": "E (Mrs) v Eve\n\nE (Mrs) v Eve, [1986] 2 S.C.R. 388 is a judgment by the Supreme Court of Canada regarding a mother's request for the consent of the court to have her disabled daughter sterilized. This was a landmark case which is influential in Canadian legal decisions involving proxy-consented, non-therapeutic medical procedures performed on people of diminished mental capacity.\n\nEve was a 24-year-old woman suffering from \"extreme expressive aphasia\" and was at least \"mildly to moderately retarded\" with learning skills at a limited level. She spent the week at a school for adults with mental disabilities, and went back to her mother's home on the weekends. Administrators at Eve's care facility noticed that she was developing a close relationship with a male resident, also disabled, and became concerned. Mrs. E, also, was concerned that Eve might innocently become pregnant. Her disability prevented her from understanding the concept of marriage or the \"consequential relationship between intercourse, pregnancy and birth,\" and she would be unable to carry out the necessary duties of motherhood.\n\nIn order to ensure she had the right, as Eve's substitute decision-maker, to consent to the sterilization procedure, Mrs. E requested that:\n\nA major concern of the court was the fact that tubal ligation, in this instance, was non-therapeutic (i.e. not necessary for medical reasons) and that a hysterectomy, which was \"authorized by the Appeal Division\", was major surgery.\n\nOne of the arguments made against Mrs. E. was that the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms was that a court-ordered sterilization of this person of diminished capacity was depriving that person of her right to procreate, infringing on Eve's right to liberty and security.\n\nIn the Family Division of the Supreme Court of Prince Edward Island, Mrs. E.'s requests were denied. Although the judge had no issue with the first two petitions (i.e. the appointment of Mrs. E. as Eve's formal guardian), he rejected the third, on the basis that substitute decision makers cannot consent to non-therapeutic surgical procedures.\n\nOn appeal, the original ruling was overturned. The majority of the three judge panel stated that there was sufficient evidence to warrant the sterilization of Eve, and that the \"parens patriae\" powers of the court allowed it to consent, on behalf of the incompetent individual, to therapeutic surgical procedures. That court stated that the \"parens patriae\" powers of the court were to be used for the benefit of the incompetent individual, and that sufficient evidence had been presented to convince them that sterilization was in Eve's best interest.\n\nThe Supreme Court of Canada, however, ruled in favour of Eve, and unanimously rejected Mrs. E.'s request for authorization to perform a sterilization procedure. The opinion of the Supreme Court of Canada was that \"barring emergency situations, a surgical procedure without consent ordinarily constitutes battery, [and] it will be obvious that the onus of proving the need for the procedure is on those who seek to have it performed...In conducting these procedures, it is obvious that a court must proceed with extreme caution; otherwise...it would open the way for abuse of the mentally incompetent, ...[they] would allow the appeal and restore the decision\" of the original court, which had rejected the petition.\n\n"}
{"id": "47769904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47769904", "title": "Emschergenossenschaft", "text": "Emschergenossenschaft\n\nThe Emschergenossenschaft is the oldest and biggest public German water board, („Wasserwirtschaftsverband”) located in Essen (North Rhine-Westphalia/Germany) and responsible for the 865 km² Emscher catchment with 2.2 Mio. citizens. The main tasks are wastewater discharge and treatment, flood protection, groundwater management, settlement of claims caused by hard coal mining, river restoration and protection of ecosystems.\n\nIn the North of Germany the merging of adjoining land owners along rivers and creeks in cooperatives had a long tradition from the 13th century on. In the German Rhine catchment, downstream of Cologne, the industrialization in the 19th century was leading to a renaissance of the alliance ideas. Until the middle of the 19th century the river Emscher (running from the spring close to Dortmund in western direction to the Rhine) was a small meandering lowland river of 109 km and the villages along the river had only a few thousand citizens. The improvement of steam engines and the construction of the Cologne-Minden trunk line in the 1840s enabled the economic development and the excavation of vertical mine shafts in the northern Ruhr from the 1850s on. That was resulting in severe environmental and health problems due to mining subsidence: The hard coal excavation in some hundred meters depth caused geological reactions at the surface, too. Locally, the sinking was leading over a stretch of 100 years to 30 m of mining-induced subsidence. The Emscher catchment area suffered from “subsidence funnels” where waste water, surface run-off and water from the creeks gathered and digested. From the river Ruhr (running in parallel in the south of the Emscher) water supply was installed by pumping stations to the northern cities from the 1870s on but the water carried germs and contaminations, too. Along the Emscher and its tributaries putrid smell, polluted water and flooding were not only restraining economic developments but also causing diseases and epidemics like typhus and malaria. From 1885 on legislative initiatives started to develop catchment-wide solutions and finally in 1899 the mining companies, industrial players and the Lord Mayors of the growing cities established the Emschergenossenschaft to organize the regional water drainage. In the same year the water supply was improved by the foundation of the Ruhrtalsperrenverein that was responsible for the construction and operation of drinking water basins to support the industry and citizens.\n\nThe municipalities were responsible for the inner city drainage systems and interconnection points were jointly defined where the Emschergenossenschaft took over responsibility. Those were normally the sub catchment parts where underground sewer systems were impossible as the mining subsidence would have caused damages continuously and waste water would have infiltrated in groundwater and soil.\n\nIn the following years – based on the Emschergenossenschaft act from 1904, a special water board act – the technical initial equipment and extension of the river and tributaries took place in the 865 km² catchment area, cutting the meanders (the Emscher was shortened from 109 km to today 81 km), deepening the runways and lining them with concrete, constructing dikes and pumping stations, relocating the Emscher mouth to guarantee downward slope and establishing waste water treatment plants. All discharge from industry, mines and households as well as rain, surface water and natural discharge were collected and drained in these new “concrete streams”. All costs were divided between the “users” of the Emscher system, depending on the volume and load of waste water or drainage capacity or causer (for example the mining companies).\n\nBetween 1906 and 1914 the catchment area changed completely as in parallel to the technical transformation of the river system with 7.000 hectares drained land the shipping waterway Rhine-Herne Canal was constructed over a stretch of 46 km to connect the coal and steel district via the Rhine to the North Sea. This waterway was located partly in the former Emscher course and is often only separated by a dyke from the Emscher.\n\nProgressing coal mining aggravated environmental problems and permanent pumping and re-construction was needed since starting the initial equipment. In the 1920s the Emschergenossenschaft operated 30 waste water treatment plants but changed the system to more centralized solutions in the following years, starting 1927 with a facility in Bottrop and (after the second relocation of the Emscher mouth 1949) the development of the central treatment plant Emscher mouth in the 1970s.\n\nThe coal crisis that emerged in the 1960s was resulting in shutdown of most mines until the 1980s and as a follow-up the mining subsidence decreased and nearly stopped in the 1990s. Within the frame of the Internationale Bauausstellung Emscher Park from 1989 to 1999 (established as a political program for structural changes from the North Rhine-Westphalian government) the Emscher restoration was announced as a so-called lighthouse project.\n\nThe Emschergenossenschaft with its administrative, political and industrial members decided to re-develop the whole Emscher system towards „second hand nature“ – a real restoration compared to the times before industrialization is impossible. The stretch was fixed for the time frame 1990 to 2020 with an investment budget of 4.5 billion €. First step was the construction respectively upgrading of 4 centralized waste water treatment plants in Dortmund, Bottrop, Duisburg and at the Emscher mouth.\n\nThe second step is the construction of a 400 km waste water sewer system in parallel to the “concrete streams” and the river Emscher itself; tubes had been impossible due to mining subsidence before. Step by step compartments of the sewer system are connected to the waste water treatment plants.\n\nAfter connecting the tubes the remaining “concrete streams” are re-developed as a third step. The historical development has been leading to a regional system of 350 km open waste water courses within corridors, fenced and secured to prevent accidents and damage. These isolated lines are on the other hand a benefit as they now enable the Emschergenossenschaft to re-develop green belts with restored water courses in these corridors. In other metropolitan areas normally water courses had disappeared in the underground sewer system which was impossible in the Emscher catchment area. The planning process was based on catchment wide masterplan strategies and public involvement, especially for huge construction sites. The Emschergenossenschaft cooperated in many EU funded transnational projects for example on regional metropolitan park demands, with Dutch institutions on flood prevention and public participation processes, on climate change mitigation and adaptation and with further networks on pharmaceutical residues in surface waters.\n\nThe Emscher restoration programme is planned to be ready with a first basic ecological equipment until 2020.\n\nResponsibilities and tasks of the Emschergenossenschaft are defined in the act „Emschergenossenschaftsgesetz“ (Emscher GG ), enacted July 14, 1904 and adapted until 2013:\n\n\nThe Emschergenossenschaft is working in an administrative collectivity with the Lippeverband, a water board established in 1926 in a neighboring river catchment area. Together, more than 1.500 employees work for both water boards, around 900 of them belong to the Emschergenossenschaft. Both public water boards together are the biggest water management and service provider in Germany.\n\nThe North Rhine-Westphalian water boards are statutory bodies, working in public-private partnership as non-profit institutions.\n\nThe Emschergenossenschaft has an administration that is governed by a board of 3 managing directors, elected for 5 years each. The election happens on the level of associates that have representatives in an annual assembly, coming from\n\n\nThe number of representatives per member depends on the number of citizens in the 19 municipalities and on the volume of waste water “produced” by the companies and mines.\n\nThe supervisory authority is the Ministry for Climate Protection, Environment, Agriculture, Conservation and Consumer Protection of the State of North Rhine-Westphalia (MKULNV). German water boards are not formal authorities but have to receive permissions and approvals for construction works etc. They are independent in financial and internal management but depend on regulatory decrees regarding water acts.\n\nThe Emschergenossenschaft is working in the 865 km² catchment area of the Emscher with the municipalities (from east to west)\n\n\nThe catchment is historically divided since cutting the Emscher main stream from its original estuary twice, first in 1906 from the original mouth in Duisburg and 1949 again by shifting the mouth to Dinslaken. The former parts of the catchment area in Duisburg and Oberhausen are drained artificially and the waste water is – after treatment – pumped into the river Rhine. These sub catchments are called “Alte Emscher” and “Kleine Emscher”. The third shift of the Emscher mouth (under construction 2014-2018) has been leading to the municipality of Voerde as a new member in the Emschergenossenschaft.\n\n"}
{"id": "30983537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30983537", "title": "Encyclopedia of Jews in Music", "text": "Encyclopedia of Jews in Music\n\nThe Encyclopedia of Jews in Music (\"Lexikon der Juden in der Musik\") was a Nazi-sponsored encyclopedia first published in Germany in 1940, which listed individuals involved in the music industry who were defined under Nazi racial laws as 'Jewish' or 'half-Jewish'. It was edited by Herbert Gerigk and Theophil Stengel and published in Berlin in 1940 by Bernhard Hahnefeld, with official support from the Nazi Party's \"Institute for Study of the Jewish Question\". The book's subtitle declared that it was produced \"on behalf of the national leadership of the Nazi Party for official reasons, partly officially certified documents\".\n\nThe encyclopedia appeared in the context of Nazi policies which repressed Jewish individuals involved in music and forbade the performance of works by Jewish composers. A similar encyclopedia by Hans Brückner, entitled \"Musical ABC of Jews\", had previously been published in 1935.\n\nThe encyclopedia's coverage was very broad, covering musicians, musicologists, librettists, conductors, music publishers and other people linked to music who were considered \"Jewish\" or \"Half-Jewish\", as well as listing forbidden \"Jewish\" works. It was kept up to date via informers and the staff of the \"Sonderstab Musik\" of the Einsatzstab Reichsleiter Rosenberg. According to the Eva Weissweiler's 1999 book, the encyclopedia appeared in five editions - the first had 380 pages, the third (1941) 394 pages, (1943) and the final edition (12th to 14th thousand printed copies) had 404 pages of listings.\n\nIt was one of the proscribed books in the Soviet occupation zone.\n\n"}
{"id": "2066119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2066119", "title": "Equitable servitude", "text": "Equitable servitude\n\nAn equitable servitude is a term used in the law of real property to describe a nonpossessory interest in land that operates much like a covenant running with the land. In England and Wales the term is defunct and in Scotland it has very long been a sub-type of the Scottish legal version of servitudes, which are what English law calls easements. However covenants and equitable servitudes in most of the jurisdictions across North America, are slightly different. The usual distinction is based on the remedy plaintiff seeks and precedent will allow for the scenario in question. Where the terms are unmerged, holders of a \"covenant\" seek \"money\" damages; holders of \"equitable servitudes\" seek \"injunctions\". The term used to exist in England widely before \"Tulk v Moxhay\" and as byproduct of the Judicature Acts became one of the fullest mergers of equity and common law in England and Wales so as to agree initially on the term \"equitable covenant\", then coming to be united in the term \"covenant\" save that \"equitable\" bears a particular meaning in English property rights since at least 1925: it means not fully compliant with registration/written formalities. If lacks legally routine formalities it is not a full legal covenant and therefore more tenuous, often only enforceable personally and against the original covenantor (\"in personam\").\n\nEquitable servitude remains conceptually unaltered from its original core meaning however in many derived jurisdictions today. It describes wherever a party is in a non-criminal way forbidden from certain use (of land) in such a way as for breach to justify prohibitory or mandatory action to be ordered by the court. The term usually applies only to permanent restrictions, others may more commonly branded rules, terms of use, private byelaws or restrictions.\n\nThe first example was wherever there was an enclave, the land owner would forever, while it is necessary, enjoy an implied positive servitude over the intervening land. In England and Wales that scenario is almost exclusively expressed in terms of implied easements in modern parlance.\n\nIn the United States, negative and affirmative equitable servitudes remain a live legal concept in their own right. It is a covenant that equity will enforce in equity, rather than in the common law, against the successors of the burdened land who have notice of the covenant. If such notice is by constructive knowledge, such as the enquiries an ordinary purchaser ought to have made, then the covenant is known as \"implied\".\n\nAn equitable servitude must be created by a writing, unless it is a negative equitable servitude that may be implied from a common scheme for the development of a residential subdivision, so long as landowners have notice of the agreement. Implied negative servitudes, however, are not recognized in some states, such as Massachusetts and California.\n\nA successor of the promisor is bound if the original promise is in writing, the covenanting parties intended the servitude to be enforceable by and against assignees, the successor of the promisor has actual, inquiry (record), or constructive notice of the servitude, and the covenant touches and concerns the land.\n\nThe benefit of an equitable servitude runs with the land and thus is enforceable by the promisee's successors if the original parties so intended, and the servitude touches and concerns the benefited property.\n\nA court will not enforce an equitable servitude under the following circumstances:\n\n"}
{"id": "4116724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4116724", "title": "Europa Universalis III", "text": "Europa Universalis III\n\nEuropa Universalis III is a grand strategy video game developed by Paradox Development Studio and published by Paradox Interactive. The game was released for Microsoft Windows in January 2007, and was later ported to OS X by Virtual Programming in November 2007.\n\nThe player controls a nation and handles matters concerning war, diplomacy, trade, and economy. The original game without expansions starts in 1453, right after the Fall of Constantinople, and continues to 1789, just past the beginning of the French Revolution. The expansion \"Napoleon's Ambition\" extends the end game year forward to 1821, whereas the expansion \"In Nomine\" moves the starting year back to 1399, making it the longest as far as gameplay time in the series thus far.\n\n\"Europa Universalis III\" has a 3D engine that requires the system to meet the Pixel Shader 2.0 specification. The map has 1,700 land and sea provinces encompassing most of the world, with 250 playable historical nations. The game also uses elements of other Paradox games such as \"Crusader Kings\", \"\", and \"Hearts of Iron II\".\nPlayers begin the game by choosing what date they would like to start their campaign and which country they would like to play as. Once in game, players can shape their countries in many different ways. Forms of government include various kingdoms, republics, theocracies, and tribal governments. Players can influence a nation's society and values by adjusting \"sliders\" such as free trade/mercantilism, and may hire court advisors such as Wolfgang Amadeus Mozart. As the game advances, players can pick \"national ideas\" such as Liberté, Égalité, Fraternité, which give specialized bonuses.\n\nThe game has over 300 playable countries, including giants like Ming China, regional powers like Bohemia and Kazan, and tiny nations like the Maldives. Without formal victory conditions, players sometimes set goals for themselves like raising a minor city-state to world prominence. The world map includes some 1,700 provinces and sea zones. Many provinces in the Americas, Africa, and Oceania are not owned by any country, allowing for colonization.\n\nEconomics in the early modern era is simulated by taxes and production income from provinces, as well as trade. National merchants compete in \"centers of trade\" such as Venice and Lübeck, and nations focused on trading income (e.g., Holland) enjoy significant advantages. Nations which mint too much currency, or are over-reliant on gold mining, are penalized by inflation. Technology investment is important in the long run; the game does not use a \"Civ\"-style tech tree, but instead has several different technology categories, which unlock new military units and buildings.\n\nDiplomacy is rather detailed: royal marriages, insults, alliances, trade embargoes, and so on all affect relations between countries. Players are able to gain control over other countries peacefully through personal unions and vassalage. Early international institutions such as the Holy Roman Empire, the Papal Curia and with the Divine Wind expansion the Shogunate are simulated in some depth. Every country has its own culture and religion, a frequent source of diplomatic unity or friction.\n\nRulers have control over armies, navies, and mercenaries they recruit. Combat is abstract, with no direct control over battles (contrast the \"Total War\" games). Military tradition is necessary for recruiting good generals and admirals. Aggression (seizing provinces without a rightful claim) is checked by the \"badboy\" system of international infamy common to Paradox's games.\n\nThe game is historically detailed; one can play the \"grand campaign\" starting in 1453 or 1399, but any date before the French Revolution (1821 with the Napoleon's Ambition expansion) is a valid starting point as well, with historical leaders and countries appropriately updated. Major events such as the War of the League of Cambrai are playable this way. Often the game diverges from reality after some time in-game, with unhistorical events such as Portugal colonizing North America, or Poland-Lithuania surviving to bully its neighbors.\n\nThe game may be played single-player or multiplayer, with players controlling different countries; every non-human country is controlled by its own AI.\n\nParadox has released 4 expansion packs for \"EU3\"; each one requires all the previous expansions. One version of the game, \"Europa Universalis III Complete\", includes the original game and the first two expansions. Another version, \"Europa Universalis III Chronicles\", includes the original game and all four expansions.\n\nOn 3 May 2007, an expansion named \"Napoleon's Ambition\" was announced by Paradox. It was officially released on 22 August 2007 via GamersGate, a digital distribution platform. The Windows version of the expansion is available as a download from GamersGate or as part of the Europa Universalis III Complete retail package, and aims to expand on EUIII with an improved interface, an enhanced trade system, expanded options, and the inclusion of more content to cover the extended time period. Virtual Programming published the \"Napoleon's Ambition\" expansion pack for Mac OS X on 7 December 2007.\n\nOn 5 March 2008, a second expansion titled \"In Nomine\" was announced. It was officially released on 28 May that same year. Features include: a further extension of the game's time frame, the addition of the Byzantine Empire, a revised AI which focuses on strategic top-level goals, and completely reworked rebels with their own goals and abilities. Virtual Programming published the \"In Nomine\" expansion for Mac OS X on 18 August 2008.\nThe game now starts earlier, beginning in October 1399 after the coronation of Henry IV of England. Because the game's time frame has been extended by 54 years, it now includes nations such as the Byzantine Empire and the Jalayirids, leaders like Tamerlane, and events such as the end of the Hundred Years' War.\n\nA key variation of the expansion is the ability for the player to make important decisions that will shape the future of their country. For instance, a player can choose to create the United Kingdom, make Paris \"worth a Mass\", or institute an East Indian Trade Company. They can now implement decisions on both country and province level with the new decision system, including hundreds of different decisions depending on situation (for example, the current state religion) and country.\n\n\"In Nomine\" also features 'rebels with a cause'. There are several types of rebels (Religious, Patriotic, Peasant...), with different goals and different abilities. For example, if patriotic rebels take control of a province, that province will suffer from 10 more years of nationalism and is more likely to defect. Other rebels include colonial rebels in your colonies determined to get representation or independence and reactionary nobles rising up to put the serfs back in their place. You can now choose between crushing rebels using military force, negotiating with them, or leaving them and watching them enforce their demands on your country.\n\nBoth \"Napoleon's Ambition\" and \"In Nomine\" are included in \"Europa Universalis III Complete\".\n\nOn 19 August 2009, a third expansion titled \"Heir to the Throne\" was announced. It was released for Windows on 15 December 2009 and includes many features requested by members of the forum. As the title suggests, it is focused mostly on royal family dynamics. Virtual Programming published the Mac OS X expansion on 24 May 2010.\n\nOn May 27, 2010, a poll was created on the Paradox forums by a developer in which users could vote for a new expansion. Options included expansions to \"Europa Universalis III\", \"Europa Universalis: Rome\", \"Hearts of Iron 3\" and \"Victoria\". With 46% of the votes, the poll was won in favour of a \"Europa Universalis III\" expansion which is to focus on the rest of the world. On 9 September, \"Divine Wind\" expansion was announced. It requires Europa Universalis III Complete and the expansion Heir to the Throne in order to play. On November 30, the expansion became available for pre-order and was released on December 14, 2010.\n\n\"Divine Wind\" was published for Mac OS X by Virtual Programming on March 16, 2011.\n\nReleased on March 22, 2011, \"Europa Universalis III: Chronicles\" bundled all four expansions with the original game. This was the first time \"Heir to the Throne\" and \"Divine Wind\" became available in retail.\n\n\"Europa Universalis III: Chronicles\" was published for Mac OS X by Virtual Programming on September 28, 2011.\n\nMost of EU3's settings are in plain text files that are easily changed to modify the map, historical events, etc. Some popular mods extensively change the game, adding historical flavor, fantasy scenarios, or new game mechanics.\n\nOne mod for EU3 is \"Magna Mundi\", which aims to add detail to the game's map and to steer the course of the alternate history portrayed by the game more towards real-world history by means of scripted events. A standalone version of \"Magna Mundi\" was planned as a spinoff game, to be developed by the mod's authors, operating as the development studio Universo Virtual, and to be published by Paradox. In 2012, MM was cancelled by Paradox, who cited lack of progress as well as a lack of trust in the developers as the reasons for this decision: according to a Paradox spokesman, \"members within the MM team [...] report to us that the project lacks active leadership\".\n\nUniverso Virtual, claiming to had a game ready for release, announced legal action against Paradox.\nIts leader, Portuguese developer Carlos Gustavo, accused Paradox of having come up with new requirements several times during development of \"Magna Mundi\". He also claimed that Paradox did not own the source code licensed to him, and announced a release of what was to be \"Magna Mundi\" the game, now re-titled \"World Stage\".\n\nThe game's sequel, \"Europa Universalis IV\", was released on August 13, 2013.\n\nOn MetaCritic the following reception was achieved by Paradox Development Studio:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31644394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31644394", "title": "Evolutionary leadership theory", "text": "Evolutionary leadership theory\n\nEvolutionary leadership theory analyses leadership from an evolutionary perspective. Evolutionary psychology assumes that our thinking, feeling and doing are the product of innate psychological mechanisms. These mechanisms have evolved because they enable people to effectively deal with situations that (directly or indirectly) are important for survival and reproduction (reproductive success).\n\nEvolutionary theory suggests that both leadership and followership were important for the reproductive success of our ancestors. Evolutionary leadership theory was introduced by Professor Mark van Vugt, Professor of social and organizational psychology (VU University Amsterdam and University of Oxford) in the book Selected: Why Some People lead, Why Others Follow and Why it Matters (Van Vugt & Ahuja, 2010). In the earlier German books \"Evolutionäre Führung\" (2006) and \"Natürlich führen\" (2013) by Dipl.-Psych. Michael Alznauer (Germany) the theme of leadership is also approached from an evolutionary viewpoint but with a slightly different focus.\n\nThe theory distinguishes itself from other theories of leadership by stating that:\nHumans evolved as social animals. The group offers protection and cooperation in hunting, gathering and sharing food to make group membership attractive to the individual. Some form of coordination may benefit group activities. Research shows that groups with leaders generally do better than groups without a leader. The core premise of evolutionary leadership theory (ELT) is that the primary function of leadership lies in facilitating group performance and effectiveness.\n\nIf leadership benefits group performance then it is in the evolutionary interests of individuals to follow. ELT uses game theory to show that it is often more attractive for individuals to follow or not follow. When deciding whether or not to follow the individual will have two considerations:\n\nEvolutionary leadership theory assumes that these considerations (and other considerations about followership) are affected by evolved psychological mechanisms. These \"instincts\" determine the way we respond to leaders (even in modern times). We see that when there is no clear need for leadership, people react negatively to attempts to influence them.\n\nEvolutionary leadership theory suggests that in deciding who to follow people use evolved cognitive leader prototypes. These prototypes are called \"cognitive ancestral leader prototypes\" CALP. The CALPs help people choose the best person to lead in a specific situation. In times of conflict, this is a physically strong and younger masculine individual not afraid to take risks. In peacetime, this is usually a more feminine person or older person with more social skills. We still see these decision rules in our modern age, as do people in times of crisis still automatically select a Big Man.\n\nin crisis big man play a role of saviors and leaders, they are needed to solve problems that are beyond normal man can solve, with their clever and natural leadership qualities they can solve highly complex social and political problem. big man's evolved to to lead groups as commanders and soldiers humans followed them til the successfully passed down their genes and evolved further the genome of big man. \nLeadership is often confused with social dominance as we see in other social species. When animals compete for limited resources (food, territory, sexual partners), the stronger animals benefit at the expense of the weak. By submitting to its stronger peer they avoid an aggressive act from the dominant animal. The dominance hierarchy reduces violence in the group. This kind of dominance hierarchy is also characteristic of other great apes such as chimpanzees and gorillas.\n\nDominance is difficult within species in which cooperation is important (such as humans). Weaker animals can form coalitions to attack stronger animals, something we see happening for example in chimpanzees. In human evolution, cooperation has led to a reversal of the balance of power. Someone is not a leader because he is able to dominate, but because his abilities benefit the group. Studies of hunter gatherers (people who live like our ancestors) also show that there is no formal power relations, and attempts to dominate the group are punished. The leader leads by consent of the group.\nThe position of leader has obvious evolutionary advantages. A good leader has great respect and prestige, and this may translate into greater privileges and more sexual liaisons.\n\nPower is still a relevant factor for humans, making it possible to increase own interests at the expense of others (as we see in dominance hierarchy). People therefore prefer to follow leaders who show integrity and generosity. In hunter-gatherer societies there are a number of corrective mechanisms to keep leaders in check\n\nIn evolutionary leadership theory such correction mechanisms are called \"strategies to overcome the powerful\" (STOPs).\n\nThe mismatch hypothesis in ELT is a variation on the savanna principle that plays an important role in evolutionary psychology. The Savanna principle states that our brains have evolved to help humans survive in a specific environment, namely small nomadic groups on the savanna of Africa. This condition is called the environment of evolutionary adaptedness, or EEA. Because the modern conditions differ in critical respects from the EEA, some innate psychological mechanisms may not be functional any more. A good example is our preference for sweet, salty and fatty foods.\nLeadership in modern organizations differs in critical respects from the leadership in the EEA. Examples include:\n\nWith the rise of knowledge it appears that the traditional hierarchical relationships are increasingly undesirable and irrelevant. Turning subordinates into followers is a key success factor for organizations and employees will expect to be able to take more initiatives and show entrepreneurship. This fits well with the ideas from evolutionary leadership theory and this theory should have a role in future developments in the field of leadership. Understanding the innate evolved psychology of leadership allows us to counter the negative effects of mismatch and find a form of leadership that leads to a more desirable work culture and more effective organizations.\n\n"}
{"id": "37551581", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37551581", "title": "Haya Party", "text": "Haya Party\n\nThe Haya Party (; translated as Life Party) is a political party started by Coptic activist Mikel Mounir.\n"}
{"id": "15542867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15542867", "title": "Human rights in Niger", "text": "Human rights in Niger\n\nAccording to the Republic of Niger's Constitution of 1999, most human rights, as defined by the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, are upheld and protected. Despite these protections, concerns of both domestic and international human rights organizations have been raised over the behavior of the government, military, police forces, and over the continuation of traditional practices which contravene the 1999 constitution. Under French colonial rule (1900–1960) and from independence until 1992, citizens of Niger had few political rights, and lived under arbitrary government power. Although the situation has improved since the return to civilian rule, criticisms remain over the state of human rights in the country.\n\nThe Constitution of 18 July 1999, the founding document of the Nigerien Fifth Republic and the basis of its legal system, guarantees certain rights for every citizen of Niger. These include rights to equality before the law, due process, universal suffrage, freedom of speech, and freedom of religion.\n\n\nThe same prerogatives shall be accorded every citizen of Niger enjoying full civil and political rights and fulfilling the conditions of eligibility as provided for by the law.\n\n\nArticle 23:Each person shall have the right to freedom of thought, opinion, expression, conscience, religion, and worship. The state shall guarantee the free exercise of worship and expression of beliefs. These rights shall be applicable in regard to public order, social tranquility, and national unity. \n\nThe constitution also created an official Nigerien National Commission on Human Rights and Fundamental Liberties to investigate and report upon human rights abuses. Its members are elected from several human rights associations, legal bodies, and government offices. It has no power to arrest, but it may investigate abuses either on its own volition or when charged by a victim. It reports to the President of Niger.\n\nIn August 2008, the government established a Mediator of the Republic. The mediator's role is to solve difficulties in the implementation and interpretation of laws and regulations. The president appoints the mediator, who is an independent administrative authority charged with investigating citizens' complaints and trying to find amicable solutions. The mediator has no decision-making powers, however, and instead submits results of investigations to the president and the prime minister.\n\nNiger is a signatory of a number of international human rights conventions, including the African Charter on Human and Peoples' Rights of 1986, for which it submits regular reports to the African Union's African Commission on Human and Peoples' Rights. Niger is one of the States Parties to the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court.\n\nNiger has had four republican constitutions since independence in 1960, but four of its seven presidents have been military leaders, taking power in three coups. The first presidential elections took place in 1993 (33 years after independence), and the first municipal elections only took place in 2007. The 1999 constitution followed the coup against and murder of President Ibrahim Baré Maïnassara by fellow military leaders. Prior to the 1992 uprising that led to free elections, Nigeriens have had little say in their nation's governance. In 2004 Mamadou Tandja was elected to his second five-year presidential term in an election that international observers deemed generally free and fair.\n\nWhile the 1999 constitution guarantees a right to free assembly, in practice the government places restrictions on political gatherings, especially at time of popular unrest. There have been three blanket states of emergency declared since 1999, the longest beginning in August 2007 for the entire Agadez Department, and renewed in November 2007. These states of emergency essentially remove all rights to protest, gathering and free movement. They also allow detention without charge or trial.\n\nThe involvement of the military in politics has historically led to regular, if infrequent, arbitrary arrest and detention, use of excessive force, torture, and extra-judicial killing by security forces and police. The judiciary has historically suffered from poor jail and prison conditions, prolonged pretrial detention, and executive interference in the judiciary. While all these have improved dramatically since the return to civilian rule, international human rights organizations continue to report sporadic incidents of all these abuses. Post-1999 there has been a marked improvement of civilian control of security forces, with the United States State Department contending every year since 2001 that the military was under civilian control.\n\nThe United States, in line with the United Nations and Amnesty International, has consistently found the post-1999 government's human rights record \"generally poor; although there are improvements in several areas, some serious problems remain\". With the 1999 election of President Tandja and members of the National Assembly in generally free and fair elections, citizens exercised their right to change their government. Since 2001, every year has seen less than a dozen prisoners die or go missing after having last been seen in the custody of military officers. Police and members of the security forces beat and otherwise abuse persons. Prior to the beginning of the Tuareg insurgency of 2007 the government has generally respected the right to association; however, several Islamist organizations that engaged in or threatened violence have been and remain banned. The government frequently restricts freedom of movement.\n\nDomestic violence and societal discrimination against women continue to be serious problems. Female genital mutilation (FGM) persists, despite government efforts to combat it. There is societal discrimination against persons with disabilities and ethnic and religious minorities. Worker rights generally are respected; however, there are reports that a traditional form of servitude still is practiced. Child labor occurs, including child prostitution. There are reports of trafficking in persons.\n\nNiger has had a tradition of lively press opposition, punctuated by bouts of government repression. From 1999 to 2007, the independent press, especially radio has flourished. With the advent of the Second Tuareg Rebellion in 2007, the government has begun to prosecute under emergency powers, those foreign and domestic press who are accused of contact with rebel leaders, and have expelled members of the foreign press from the country. The north, under a state of emergency, has become a no-go zone for foreign press, and the independent \"Radio Agadez\" in the north has been closed by the government.\n\nSince literacy and personal incomes are both very low, radio is the most important medium of public communication. The government-owned Radio Voix du Sahel transmits 14 hours per day, providing news and other programs in French and several local languages. There are several private radio stations, including Radio France International, Africa Number One, Radio et Musique, Radio Souda, Radio Tenere, Radio Anfani, and Radio Tambara; the last five are owned locally and feature popular news programs in local languages, including Djerma and Hausa. These private radio stations generally are less critical of government actions than are the private newspapers. Radio Anfani and Radio et Musique presented news coverage that has included a variety of points of view. The other private domestic radio stations are smaller and offer little domestic news programming. The government-operated multilingual national radio service provides equitable broadcasting time for all legal political parties during the year.\n\nThe government publishes a French-language daily newspaper, \"Le Sahel\", and its weekend edition. There are approximately 12 private French-language weekly or monthly newspapers, some of which are affiliated loosely with political parties. The private press remains relatively assertive in criticizing government actions, though since mid-2007, there have been a number of arrests of foreign and local journalist.\n\nTwo local journalists were imprisoned in 2007 under charge of aiding the Tuareg insurgency in the north, and several radio stations have been closed. The journalist Moussa Kaka was held over a year on charges stemming from a radio interview of Rebel leaders, before being provisionally released. Foreign journalist circulated and reported freely prior to mid-2007, but since have been restricted from reporting on or traveling to the north of the country (Agadez Region). Since this time radio re-broadcasts of foreign news services have been restricted, having previously been a staple of Nigerien news coverage.\n\nWhile Moussa Kaka has received the longest imprisonment for a journalist since the beginning of the Tuareg based insurgency in February 2007, several other cases have come to the attention of the international media. French journalists Thomas Dandois and Pierre Creisson were detained in Agadez for a month in 2007 by Nigerien military forces before being released. The editor of the Niamey's L’Evénement weekly was arrested on 30 July 2008 and charged with \"divulging a defence secret\" after reporting that an army officer had been linked to an arms cache that was discovered in the capitol. The Government press regulation body, the High Council for Communication (CSC) closed Niamey based TV and radio station Dounia TV for one month in August 2008, and closed for an indefinite period Sahara FM, the main radio station in Agadez on 22 April 2008 for broadcasting interviews with people who had claimed they were the victims of abuses by government troops. In June 2007, Agadez weekly Aïr-Info was closed by the government for three months, while at the same time sending formal warnings to three other newspapers (Libération, L’Opinion and L’Evènement) for reporting on the conflict in the north, which the government said were \"trying to justify criminal activity and violence.\" Aïr-Info editor Ibrahim Manzo Diallo, after attempting to open a new weekly paper, was arrested and released. One of his reporters was also arrested in Ingal in October, and in October Diallo was arrested trying to board a flight to Europe and charged with \"membership of a criminal gang\" Diallo was released pending trial in February 2008.\n\nIn 2009, Reporters Without Borders and the International Federation of Journalists accused the government of Niger of carrying out repeated harassment of Nigerien journalists, following three high-profile arrests and libel cases brought against newspapers by members of the government and the arrest of two officials of Dounia TV for comments made by others on their station. Dounia, the only non-governmental Nigerien Television News station, has been accused of giving air time to supporters Hama Amadou, an imprisoned ruling party rival of the President of Niger. RSF claimed that \"The Dounia group is the victim of repeated harassment by the judicial authorities\".\n\nAs of 2006, conditions in all 35 of the country's prisons were poor and life-threatening. Prisons were underfunded, understaffed, and overcrowded. For example, in Niamey's civil prison, there were approximately 720 prisoners in a facility built for 350; at year's end an estimated 550 of them were awaiting trial. Family visits were allowed, and prisoners could receive supplemental food, medicine, and other necessities from their families; however, nutrition, sanitation, and health conditions were poor, and deaths occurred from AIDS, tuberculosis, and malaria.\n\nCorruption among prison staff is rampant. Prisoners could bribe officials to leave prison for the day and serve their sentences in the evenings. Some prisoners bribed officials to serve their sentences in the national hospital in Niamey. Pretrial detainees were held with convicted prisoners.\n\nHuman rights observers, including the International Committee of the Red Cross (ICRC), the Nigerien Commission on Human Rights and Fundamental Liberties, and various NGOs, were granted unrestricted access to prisons and detention centers and conducted visits during the year.\n\nThe armed forces, under the Defense Ministry, are responsible for internal and external security. The gendarmerie, also under the Defense Ministry, had primary responsibility for rural security. The national forces for intervention and security, under the Interior Ministry, are responsible for domestic security and the protection of high-level officials and government buildings, and the national police, also under the Interior Ministry, are charged with urban law enforcement.\n\nThe police are ineffective, primarily because of inadequate resources. Basic supplies such as vehicle fuel, radios, uniforms, handcuffs, batons, and badges are scarce. Patrols are sporadic, and emergency response time in Niamey can take 45 minutes. Police training is minimal, and only specialized police units had basic weapons-handling skills. Corruption remains pervasive. Citizens complain that security forces do not adequately police border regions. The gendarmerie is responsible for investigation of police abuse; however, impunity is often a problem.\n\nThe constitution provides for freedom of religion, and the government generally respects this right in practice. Nigerien society, although predominately Muslim, is respectful and tolerant of religious difference.\n\nIslam is the dominant religion and the Niger Islamic Council, which acts as an official advisory committee to the government on religious matters, broadcasts biweekly on the government controlled television station. On government controlled media, Christian programs generally are broadcast only on special occasions, such as Christmas and Easter, although the independent media regularly broadcast such programs.\n\nForeign Christian missionaries, while generally viewed with suspicion, operate openly and unmolested. Most large cities, due to the legacy of French colonialism, contain Christian churches and small Christian communities. There is also a small Bahá'í community in Niamey. Sharia law, though observed by more pious Nigeriens, is not enforced by government or community. Alcohol is sold openly and women, while generally dressing modestly, need not wear headscarves.\n\nReligious organizations must register with the Interior Ministry. Registration is a formality, and there are no reports that the government refused to register a religious organization.\n\nOn February 10, 2006, the government established the Niger Islamic Council composed of 10 leaders drawn from Islamic associations including the Islamic Association of Niger and other NGOs, and 10 members from various government agencies. The Islamic Council advises the government on Islamic issues including preaching, mosque construction, payment of zakat, etc. The council's avowed goals are to \"work toward promoting a culture of tolerance and social peace and encourage Nigeriens to participate in the country's economic, social, and cultural development.\" During the installation of the council, the prime minister said that the purpose of the council was in part \"to address behaviors and practices inspired by foreign countries\", a remark widely interpreted to mean Nigerian and middle-eastern-inspired theological change and mosque construction projects.\n\nIn October 2006, Niger announced that it would deport the Arabs living in the Diffa Region of eastern Niger to Chad. This population numbered about 150,000. While the government was rounding up Arabs in preparation for the deportation, two girls died, reportedly after fleeing government forces, and three women suffered miscarriages. Niger's government had eventually suspended a controversial decision to deport Arabs.\n\nIn Niger, where the practice of slavery was outlawed in 2003, a study has found that more than 800,000 people are still slaves, almost 8% of the population. Slavery dates back for centuries in Niger and was finally criminalised in 2003, after five years of lobbying by Anti-Slavery International and Nigerian human-rights group, Timidria.\n\nDescent-based slavery, where generations of the same family are born into bondage, is traditionally practiced by at least four of Niger's eight ethnic groups. The slave holders are mostly from the lighter-skinned nomadic ethnic groups — Tuareg, Fula, Toubou and Arabs. In the region of Say on the right bank of the river Niger, it is estimated that three-quarters of the population around 1904–1905 was composed of slaves.\n\nPrior to the 20th century, the Tuareg captured slaves during raids into other communities and in war. War was then the main source of supply of slaves, although many were bought at slave markets, run mostly by indigenous peoples.\n\nThe following chart shows Niger's ratings since 1972 in the Freedom in the World reports, published annually by Freedom House. A rating of 1 is \"free\"; 7, \"not free\".\nNiger's stances on international human rights treaties are as follows:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "277075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=277075", "title": "India Unbound", "text": "India Unbound\n\nIndia Unbound: From Independence to Global Information Age is a 2000 non-fiction book by Gurcharan Das. It is an account of India's economic journey after its Independence in 1947.\n\nIndia Unbound is mainly about the transformation of India from birth of the writer in (1942) to (1999). The author majorly speaks about the Indian politics and the economy of India. He categorizes the complete timeline from 1942 to 1999 in three major sections: 'Spring of Hope (1942–65)', 'the Lost Generation (1966–91)' & 'Rebirth of Dream (1991–99)' and tell various stories(memoirs) and the historical facts of that time. The book is a great mixture of memoir, economic analysis, social investigation, political scrutiny and managerial outlook being thrown into the understanding of India. It begins shortly before independence and continues until the new millennium. As other authors cherish the revolution that began with independence in 1947, Gurcharan Das does not find full cause for jubilation until 1991, when India unleashed a series of economic reforms, the start of an \"economic revolution\" that he believes \"may well be more important than the political revolution.\"\n\nThe book starts with a brief history of 18th and 19th century India. Gurucharan Das starts with the augmentation of the railways in India, which was presumed to usher India into the industrial revolution. The book also points to the factors which led to the decline in the Indian economy under the British Raj.\n\nThe ‘Spring of Hope’ (1942–65) describes the period in Indian history when it embarks upon as an independent country. The post independence economic policy followed the first Prime Minister of India Jawaharlal Nehru is socialist in nature which gives all the control over the industry to the public sector. Nehru was ably supported by some of the best economists from across India. He sets up a mixed economy which is a middle path between democratic rights followed by the Western countries and socialist ideology of the Soviet world.\n\nThe 'Lost Generation' (1966–91) refers to the phase of Indian Polity and economy which saw fading of the Indian dream. The economic policies followed by Indira Gandhi with the advice of her trusted economic advisers led India in to a very slow growth rate. The book cites an irony when it states that the 'Garibi Hatao' policies followed by Mrs. Indira Gandhi were actually working counter-productively and throwing millions of Indians further into poverty rather than alleviating their plight. The author marks the declaration of 'Emergency' as the lowest point of Indian Polity. Gurucharan Das gives a resounding account of his personal tryst with the Indian bureaucratic system prevailing at that time. He gives the account of incompetency spread in the Indian set-up which was choking the country’s economy to the death and License Raj which was the greatest hurdle to the growth of India.\n\n"}
{"id": "37393247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37393247", "title": "Jewish Council for Education &amp; Research", "text": "Jewish Council for Education &amp; Research\n\nThe Jewish Council for Education & Research (JCER) is a federal Super PAC that has the purpose of developing and disseminating political information to United States voters.\n\nThey endorsed Barack Obama for the 2012 election and believed that \"his administration has made significant progress towards fulfilling the pledges he made during his campaign.\"\n"}
{"id": "30007557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30007557", "title": "Kristinn Hrafnsson", "text": "Kristinn Hrafnsson\n\nKristinn Hrafnsson (born 25 June 1962) is an Icelandic investigative journalist known for his former role as spokesperson for the WikiLeaks organisation between 2010 and 2017.\n\nHe has worked at various newspapers in Iceland and hosted the television programme Kompás on the Icelandic channel Stöð 2, where he and his team often exposed criminal activity and corruption in high places. In February 2009, while investigating the connection between Iceland's Kaupthing Bank and Robert Tchenguiz and Vincent Tchenguiz, the programme was taken off air and Kristinn and his crew were sacked.\n\nShortly thereafter, Kristinn was hired by RÚV, the Icelandic National Broadcasting Service. In August 2009, he was working on a story about Kaupthing's loan book which had just been published on the WikiLeaks webpage, when the bank got a gag order issued by the Reykjavik sheriff's office, banning RÚV from reporting on the loan book, which could be publicly accessed online via WikiLeaks. The prohibition order was withdrawn later.\n\nKristinn was dismissed from RÚV (his contract was not renewed) in July 2010. After this point, he worked as an independent journalist. Beginning in 2010, he collaborated with WikiLeaks, serving as the organisation's spokesman after founder Julian Assange withdrew from the limelight. He has called the December 2010 attacks on WikiLeaks by MasterCard, Visa, and others a \"privatisation of censorship\". In 2012, in his capacity as WikiLeaks spokesman, he defended the organisation on the website of Swedish Television against what he described as a smear campaign by the Swedish tabloid Expressen.\n\nKristinn has been named Icelandic journalist of the year three times, in 2004, 2007 and 2010 by Iceland's National Union of Journalists.\n\nIn early 2017, Hrafnsson stated that he was no longer spokesperson for Wikileaks.\n\nKristinn Hrafnsson was appointed editor in chief of Wikileaks on 26 September 2018 taking over from Julian Assange \n"}
{"id": "53429506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53429506", "title": "Max Deml", "text": "Max Deml\n\nMax Deml (born 1957) is a German-Austrian writer for environmental and financial magazines, publisher and entrepreneur.\n\nSince October 1991 he has been editor-in-chief of Oeko Invest, a bi-weekly stock market newsletter concentrating on socially responsible, sustainable investments, and renewable energies (only printed in German language). He developed green stock and fund indexes like NX-25 in 2003, has a broad view of companies from around the world, and provides an insider's perspective on European companies.\n\nDeml studied psychology, philosophy and political science in Regensburg and later in Vienna.\n\nHe founded Oeko Invest Publishing Ltd. in June 1991 after dropping out of university. He went on to co-found companies like BioArt AG (organic and fair trade food), Fair Finance Holding AG, Grassmugg AG, and GreenTec Invest AG, and Prodigium Pictures. Additionally, he serves as chairman of the board of several Austrian companies. He is member of the Environmental Advisory Board of Oeco Capital Life Insurance in Germany and the fund committee of the World Wide Fund of Nature Austria. Since 1990 he has been co-author of the handbook Green Money.\n\nSince 2012, Deml has been performing a standup comedy program entitled \"Grünes Geld und Frische Blüten - ein C(r)ashkurs\" - \"Green Money and Fresh Dough - a C(r)ash Course\".\n"}
{"id": "2141225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2141225", "title": "Motorcade", "text": "Motorcade\n\nA motorcade, or autocade, is a procession of vehicles. The term \"motorcade\" was coined by Lyle Abbot (in 1912 or 1913 when he was automobile editor of the \"Arizona Republican\"), and is formed after \"cavalcade\" on the false notion that \"-cade\" was a suffix meaning \"procession\". In fact, there is no such suffix in either French or Latin, although \"-cade\" has now since become a productive suffix in English, leading to the alternative names \"carcade\", \"autocade\", and even \"Hoovercade\" (after J. Edgar Hoover). Eric Partridge called the name a \"monstrosity\", and Lancelot Hogben considered the word to be a \"counterfeit coinage\". The original suffix in \"cavalcade\" is actually \"-ade\".\n\nA funeral cortege is a procession of mourners, most often in a motorcade of vehicles following a hearse.\n\nMotorcades can be used as protests and demonstrations. A large, organised, group of vehicles will travel a busy route at very slow speed in order to deliberately cause traffic disruption. This is a tactic most often associated with protest groups that have access to many large vehicles, such as truckers and farmers. An example is the 2005 UK protests against fuel prices. As part of the Euromaidan protests in Ukraine in November 2013—February 2014, the sub-movement that made use of car processions as the means of protest was called the Automaidan.\n\nMotorcades can be used to transport a very important person, usually a political figure. Such a procession consists of several vehicles, usually accompanied by law enforcement support and additional protection to ensure the safety of the people in the motorcade. Motorcades for heads of government and heads of state can consist of dozens of vehicles, those being armoured cars, SUVs, and police motorcycles and cars leading the way and following.\n\nDepending on the size of the motorcade and who it is carrying, routes may be completely blockaded from the general public. For security, this often occurs for motorcades for heads of state or government.\n\nThe motorcade for the President of the United States comprises forty to fifty vehicles; in addition to the president, the motorcade may carry his or her spouse, members of the press, security, White House officials, and VIP guests. The major members travel in armored vehicles, typically specially configured limousines. The motorcade contains several armored vehicles, a USSS Electronic Countermeasures Suburban, a counter-assault team, and Secret Service agents. When called for, a hazardous materials team precedes the motorcade on alert for potential hazards.\n\nA police presence precedes the beginning of the presidential motorcade. These cars and motorcycles usually drive ahead to clear the way and block traffic.\n\nThe motorcade for the president is made up of two parts, the first being the \"secure package\". In the event of an emergency, the secure package separates from the rest of the group. It includes two limousines heavily guarded by local law enforcement and Secret Service, with all cars driven by professional drivers.\n\nThe second part is made up of vans that transport White House staff members and selected members of the press. In the rear is the WHCA Roadrunner communications van – which provides the primary communications path via satellite, allowing bi-directional voice, data and streaming video – an ambulance, and additional police vehicles.\n\nMotorcade routes are selected by Secret Service agents in cooperation with local police forces. Escape routes are also established in the event of an emergency.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11256987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11256987", "title": "New European Order", "text": "New European Order\n\nThe New European Order (NEO) was a neo-fascist, Europe-wide alliance set up in 1951 to promote Pan-European nationalism. It was a more radical splinter group of the European Social Movement.\n\nThe NEO had its origins in the 1951 Malmö conference when a group of rebels led by René Binet refused to join the European Social Movement as they felt that it did not go far enough in terms of racialism and anti-communism. As a result Binet joined with Gaston-Armand Amaudruz in a second meeting that same year in Zurich to set up a second group pledged to wage war on communists and non-white people.\n\nOnce established, the NEO worked to set in place more permanent institutions, setting up a European Liaison Centre of the National Forces (\"Europäische Verbindungsstelle\" or EVS) in 1953, along with a permanent secretariat in Lausanne led by Amaudruz and his assistant Michael Schenk-Dengg, head of the \"Deutscher Blok\". The EVS became very active in the following years, organising meetings for international representatives, attended by members of the Falange, Italian Social Movement (MSI), Socialist Reich Party and others.\n\nThe NEO endured difficulties in 1955 over the issue of South Tyrol, with German speaking delegates attacking the MSI over their support for Italian control of the region. As a result, during the course of the year the \"Deutscher Block\", the \"Volkspartei der Schweiz\", Wiking-Jugend and representatives from Austria all left the NEO. By 1957, the movement had largely become moribund in Europe.\n\nDuring a 1997 hearing before the Commission on terrorism headed by senator Giovanni Pellegrino, Stefano Delle Chiaie went on speaking about a \"black fascist International\" and his hopes of creating the conditions of an \"international revolution.\" In this context he talked about the World Anti-Communist League and admitted having taken part in the New European Order.\n\nThe NEO would continue, coming to life from time to time, with Amaudruz continuing as a figurehead of the movement, publishing a monthly magazine \"Courrier du Continent\". Whilst its European dimension became less important it remained as a network for international contacts, becoming influential for a time in the far right of South Africa. However, outside of Amaudruz, the NEO is effectively defunct today.\n\n"}
{"id": "14093808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14093808", "title": "Party of Pensioners of Ukraine", "text": "Party of Pensioners of Ukraine\n\nThe Party of Pensioners of Ukraine () is a political party in Ukraine registered in November 1999.\n\nThe party was not allowed to participate in the electoral alliance \"Rainbow\" in the Ukrainian 2002 parliamentary elections.\n\nThe party ran independently in the 2006 parliamentary elections winning 0.20% of the votes and no seats.\n\nIn the 30 September 2007 elections, the party failed again as part of the Bloc of the Party of Pensioners of Ukraine to win parliamentary representation. In the 2012 Ukrainian parliamentary election the party won 0.56% of the national votes and no constituencies (it had competed in 6 constituencies) and thus failed once more to win parliamentary representation. The party did participate in the 2014 Ukrainian parliamentary election; but again won no seats.\n"}
{"id": "13787682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13787682", "title": "Patriot Act Terrorist Exclusion List", "text": "Patriot Act Terrorist Exclusion List\n\nThe Patriot Act Terrorist Exclusion List (TEL) was a list created by the United States Secretary of State under the authority of Section 411 of the USA Patriot Act of 2001 (8 U.S.C. § 1182), in consultation with or upon the request of the Attorney General, to designate an organization as a terrorist organization for immigration purposes. The Secretary of State can use classified and/or unclassified information available to the Secretary that a group has committed, or provided material support to further, terrorist acts. A TEL designation attempts to bolster homeland security efforts by allowing the US government to exclude from entry into the United States or to deport aliens associated with entities on the TEL. The list hasn't been updated since 2014.\n\nTEL is one of four primary counter-terrorism lists established by the US government, the others being: the State Sponsors of Terrorism, Foreign Terrorist Organizations (FTO), and Executive Order 13224. Each list has its individual mechanisms, but they all serve to combat terrorism, punish terrorists and their supporters, and pressure changes in the behavior of designated states and groups. \n\n39 organizations were designated as terrorist organizations on December 5, 2001.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31598911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31598911", "title": "Phone surveillance", "text": "Phone surveillance\n\nPhone surveillance is the act of performing surveillance on phone conversations, location tracking and data monitoring of a phone. Before the era of mobile phones, these used to refer to the tapping of phone lines via a method called wiretapping. Wiretapping has now been replaced by software that monitors the cell phones of users.\n\nWhile mobile phone surveillance has been carried out by large organizations for a long time, especially for clues of illegal activities, more and more such surveillance is now carried out by individuals for personal reasons. For example, a parent may become a \"text spy\" in order to monitor a child's texting activity. This brings in the moral, ethical and legal question of who owns people's privacy.\n\nAccording to a 1998 American Management Association report, 43% of companies actually tap phone conversations and review computer files and emails of employees. No newer data is available on the number of phone surveillance carried out currently.\n\nPhone surveillance in now more commonly carried out on cell phones. This has become increasingly easy with the availability of cell phone monitoring software. These types of software are easily purchased over the internet and can be quickly installed in any phone that the person has access to. There are many companies who develop spy software like SpectorSoft and Retina-X Studios. There have been questions as to whether this software is illegal. Most of the software makers circumvent this problem by placing a disclaimer that they do not endorse any illegal activities. The onus is then on the user of the software to ensure he or she doesn't break any law.\n\nFor now, phone surveillance seems to be difficult to detect and prevent. There are security companies who can help clear this software from the cell phone, although it is practically impossible for everyone to do that. The law has yet to set a clear boundary on who can or who cannot do phone surveillance. A 2005 federal court ruling denies the FBI from tracking cellphone locations of people who have not committed any crimes.\n\n"}
{"id": "307316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=307316", "title": "Prohibition Party", "text": "Prohibition Party\n\nThe Prohibition Party (PRO) is a political party in the United States best known for its historic opposition to the sale or consumption of alcoholic beverages. It is the oldest existing third party in the US. The party is an integral part of the temperance movement. While never one of the leading parties in the United States, it was once an important force in the Third Party System during the late 19th and early 20th centuries. It declined dramatically after the repeal of Prohibition in 1933. The party's candidate received 518 votes in the 2012 presidential election and 5,617 votes in the 2016 presidential election. The platform of the party is liberal in that it supports environmental stewardship, women's rights and free education, but is conservative on social issues, such as supporting temperance and advocating for a pro-life stance.\n\nThe Prohibition Party was founded in 1869. Its first National Committee Chairman was John Russell of Michigan. It succeeded in getting communities and also many counties in the states to outlaw the production and sale of intoxicating beverages.\n\nAt the same time, its ideology broadened to include aspects of progressivism. The party contributed to the third-party discussions of the 1910s and sent Charles H. Randall to the 64th, 65th and 66th Congresses as the representative of California's 9th congressional district. Democrat Sidney J. Catts of Florida, after losing a close Democratic primary, used the Prohibition line to win election as Governor of Florida in 1916; he remained a Democrat.\n\nThe Prohibition Party's proudest moment came in 1919, with the passage of the 18th Amendment to the United States Constitution, which outlawed the production, sale, transportation, import and export of alcohol. The era during which alcohol was illegal in the United States is known as \"Prohibition\".\n\nDuring the Prohibition era, the Prohibition Party pressed for stricter enforcement of the prohibition laws. During the 1928 election, for example, it considered endorsing Republican Herbert Hoover rather than running its own candidate. However, by a 3/4 vote, its national executive committee voted to nominate its own candidate, William F. Varney, instead. They did this because they felt Hoover's stance on prohibition was not strict enough. The Prohibition Party became even more critical of Hoover after he was elected President. By the 1932 election, party chairman David Leigh Colvin thundered that \"The Republican wet plank [i.e. supporting the repeal of Prohibition] means that Mr. Hoover is the most conspicuous turncoat since Benedict Arnold.\" Hoover lost the election, but national prohibition was repealed anyway in 1933, with the 21st Amendment during the Roosevelt administration.\n\nThe 19th Amendment, which gave women the right to vote, did not pass until 1920. Yet, in 1869, the Prohibition Party became the first to accept women as party members and even gave women who attended its first national convention full delegate rights. This was the first time any party had afforded women this right. These women \"spoke from the floor, entered debates, introduced resolutions, and voted on the party platform\". Women's suffrage appeared on the Prohibition Party platform in 1872. In 1892, the platform included the idea of equal pay for equal work. Delia L. Weatherby was an alternate delegate from the 4th congressional district of Kansas to the National Prohibition Convention in 1892, and also secured, the same year, for the second time by the same party, the nomination for the office of superintendent of public instruction in her own county. By contrast, women’s suffrage did not appear on the platform of either the Democratic or Republican platform until 1916. The Woman’s Christian Temperance Union (WCTU), which later became instrumental in the passage of the 18th Amendment, started out as the women’s branch of the Prohibition Party. It went on to become more influential than the party itself. It was \"the largest women’s organization of the nineteenth century and the heart of the organized demand for prohibition and women’s rights as well as for prison and labor reform, for public support for neglected children, and for peace – in short for a transformed society dedicated to social justice\".\n\nSome of the most important women involved in this movement were:\n\nThe Prohibition Party has faded into obscurity since World War II. When it briefly changed its name to the \"National Statesman Party\" in 1977 (it reversed the change in 1980), \"Time\" magazine suggested that it was \"doubtful\" that the name change would \"hoist the party out of the category of political oddity\".\n\nThe Prohibition Party has continued running presidential candidates every four years, but its vote totals have steadily dwindled. It last received more than 100,000 votes for president in 1948, and the 1976 election was the last time the party received more than 10,000 votes.\n\nThe Prohibition Party experienced a schism in 2003, as the party's prior presidential candidate, Earl Dodge, incorporated a rival party called the National Prohibition Party in Colorado. An opposing faction nominated Gene C. Amondson for President and filed under the Prohibition banner in Louisiana. Dodge ran under the name of the historic Prohibition Party in Colorado, while the Concerns of People Party allowed Amondson to run on its line against Dodge. Amondson received 1,944 votes, nationwide, while Dodge garnered 140.\n\nOne key area of disagreement between the factions was over who should control payments from a trust fund dedicated to the Prohibition Party by George Pennock in 1930. The fund pays approximately $8,000 per year, and during the schism these funds were divided between the factions. Dodge died in 2007, allowing the dispute over the Pennock funds to finally be resolved in 2014. The party is reported as having only \"three dozen fee-paying members\".\n\nIn the 2016 election, the party nominated James Hedges. He qualified for the ballot in three states, Arkansas, Colorado, and Mississippi, and earned 5,514 votes.\n\nOn November 13, 2018, the Party met via telephone conference to nominate its 2020 Presidential and Vice-Presidential nominees. Bill Bayes of Mississippi, the 2016 Vice-Presidential nominee, of Mississippi was nominated for President on the first ballot over Adam Seaman of Massachusetts and Phil Collins of Nevada. C. L. Gammon of Tennessee was nominated as the Vice-Presidential candidate without opposition. \n\nA fairly moderate Platform was defeated and due to Bayes' reactionay views on race, the Civil War, the Confederacy, and expressing views that former President Obama is a Muslim, a traitor, and a Kenyan as well as other hard-right views on capital punishment, health care, immigration (Supports executing those who help illegal immigrants, whom he refers to as \"invaders,\" cross the Southern border should be executed.), etc., a number of Party members are considering leaving the Party and reconstituting the National Prohibition Party that existed between 2003 and 2009. Disussions are currently underway. \n\nThe Prohibition Party has nominated a candidate for president in every election since 1872, and is thus the longest-lived American political party after the Democrats and Republicans.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6133060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6133060", "title": "Randall Forsberg", "text": "Randall Forsberg\n\nDr. Randall Caroline Forsberg (July 23, 1943 – October 19, 2007) led a lifetime of research and advocacy on ways to reduce the risk of war, minimize the burden of military spending, and promote democratic institutions. Her career started at the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute in 1968. In 1974 she moved to Cambridge, Massachusetts (where she earned her Ph.D. in 1980) to found the Institute for Defense and Disarmament Studies as well as to launch the national Nuclear Weapons Freeze Campaign.\n\nRandall Forsberg (née Watson, 1943-2007) became interested in arms control issues while working at the Stockholm International Peace Research Institute in the late 1960s and early 1970s. In 1974, she returned to the United States, and became a graduate student in international studies at Massachusetts Institute of Technology. In 1979, Forsberg wrote \"Call to Halt the Arms Race\", which later was the manifesto of the Nuclear Weapons Freeze Campaign. The document advocated a bilateral halt to the testing, production, deployment and delivery of nuclear weapons.\n\nForsberg was awarded a doctorate in 1980 and she started the Institute for Defense and Disarmament Studies, which became an important resource for the peace movement and anti-nuclear weapons movement. In 1983 Forsberg was awarded a MacArthur Foundation \"genius grant\". In 2005 she became Spitzer Professorship in Political Science at the City College of New York, and died of cancer in 2007 at the age of 64.\n\n\n\nTalks at West Point, the US Air Force Academy, the National Defense University, and the German War College; and met with senior government officials of Russia, China, Germany, Norway, and other countries. She was on the board or advisory board of the Boston Review, Arms Control Association, Journal of Peace Research, University of California Institute for Global Cooperation and Conflict, and Women's Action for New Directions from ____ until her death in 2007.\n\n\n\n\n\nAs well as articles in Scientific American, International Security, Technology Review, Bulletin of the Atomic Scientists, and World Policy Journal.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1418746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1418746", "title": "Ron Sider", "text": "Ron Sider\n\nRonald James Sider (born 17 September 1939) is a Canadian-born American theologian and social activist. He is often identified by others with the evangelical left even if he personally disclaims any political inclination. He is the founder of Evangelicals for Social Action, a think-tank which seeks to develop biblical solutions to social and economic problems through incubating programs that operate at the intersection of faith and social justice. He is a founding board member of the National Religious Partnership for the Environment. He is also the Distinguished Professor of Theology, Holistic Ministry and Public Policy at Palmer Theological Seminary in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.\n\nSider attended the University of Waterloo, in Ontario, and received a BA in European history. While at Waterloo, he came in contact with the apologetic work of InterVarsity Christian Fellowship, and set his sights on a career in academia. Upon graduating in the late 1960s with Master of Divinity and Ph.D. degrees in history from Yale University, he expected to teach early modern European history on secular university campuses, and continue his apologetic work for IVCF. In 1968, he accepted an invitation from Messiah College to teach at its newly opened Philadelphia Campus in the inner city of Philadelphia, PA. The racism, poverty, and evangelical indifference he observed at close hand made a deep impression that led him to write the book, \"Rich Christians in an Age of Hunger.\"\n\nWhat he saw as the injustice of the inner city motivated Sider to work toward developing a biblical response to social injustice. He brought together a network of similarly concerned evangelicals, which in 1973 became the Thanksgiving Workshop on Evangelical Social Concern. It was this conference that issued the \"Chicago Declaration of Evangelical Social Concern.\" Twenty years later, a similar gathering of evangelical leaders resulted in the Chicago Declaration II: A Call for Evangelical Renewal. In 2004 he was a signatory of the \"Confessing Christ in a World of Violence\" document.\n\nHe signed his name to a full-page ad in the 5 December 2008 New York Times that objected to violence and intimidation against religious institutions and believers in the wake of the passage of Proposition 8. The ad stated that \"violence and intimidation are always wrong, whether the victims are believers, gay people, or anyone else.\" A dozen other religious and human rights activists from several different faiths also signed the ad, noting that they \"differ on important moral and legal questions,\" including Proposition 8.\n\nSider has published over 30 books and has written over 100 articles in both religious and secular magazines on a variety of topics including the importance of caring for creation as part of biblical discipleship.\n\nIn 1977, Sider's \"Rich Christians in an Age of Hunger\", was published. Hailed by \"Christianity Today\" as one of the one hundred most influential books in religion in the 20th century, it went on to sell over 400,000 copies in many languages. He later authored \"Good News Good Works\", (published by Baker Book House), a call to the church to embrace what Sider sees as the whole gospel, through a combination of evangelism, social engagement and spiritual formation. Its companion book tells stories about effective ministries that bring both evangelism and social transformation together.\n\n\"Completely Pro-Life,\" published in the mid-1980s, calls on Christians to take a consistent stand opposing abortion, capital punishment, nuclear weapons, hunger, and other conditions that Sider sees as anti-life. \"Cup of Water, Bread of Life\" was published in 1994. \"Living Like Jesus\" (1999) has been called Sider’s \"Mere Christianity\". \"Just Generosity: A New Vision for Overcoming Poverty in America\" (1999, 2007) offers a holistic, comprehensive vision for dramatically reducing America's poverty. \"Churches That Make a Difference\" (2002) with Phil Olson and Heidi Rolland Unruh provides concrete help to local congregations seeking to combine evangelism and social ministry. Recent publications include: Fixing the Moral Deficit: A Balanced Way to Balance the Budget (2012); Just Politics: A Guide for Christian Engagement (2012); The Early Church on Killing: A Comprehensive Sourcebook on War, Abortion, and Capital Punishment (2012).\n\nIn August 2009, he signed a public statement encouraging all Christians to read, wrestle with, and respond to Caritas in Veritate, the social encyclical by Pope Benedict XVI. Later that year, he also gave his approval to the \"\", calling on evangelicals, Catholics and Orthodox not to comply with rules and laws permitting abortion, same-sex marriage and other matters that go against their religious consciences.\n\nSider's opponents typically criticize his ideas as consisting of bad theology and bad economics. The most thorough critiques come from the American Christian right, specifically from Christian Reconstructionists. David Chilton's book, \"Productive Christians in an Age of Guilt Manipulators\" (1986), with a foreword by Gary North, argues that Sider's book takes a position contrary to the biblical teachings on economics, poverty, and giving, and that the economic model it provides is untenable. Sider significantly revised the book for the twentieth anniversary edition, and, in an interview with \"Christianity Today\" magazine said, \"I admit, though, that I didn't know a great deal of economics when I wrote the first edition of Rich Christians. In the meantime, I've learned considerably more, and I've changed some things as a result of that. For example, in the new, twentieth-anniversary edition, I say more explicitly that when the choice is democratic capitalism or communism, I favor the democratic political order and market economies.\"\n\nSider is the child of a Canadian Brethren in Christ pastor. He attends Oxford Circle Mennonite Church, is the father of three and lives in Lansdale, Pennsylvania with his wife Arbutus, a retired family counselor. They celebrated their 50th wedding anniversary in 2011, and they have six granddaughters. Sider's son Theodore (Ted) is a tenured professor of philosophy at Rutgers who has published over 50 scholarly articles and three books with Oxford University Press.\n\n"}
{"id": "4726233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4726233", "title": "Stovepiping", "text": "Stovepiping\n\nStovepiping (also stove piping) is a metaphorical term which recalls a stovepipe's function as an isolated vertical conduit, and has been used, in the context of intelligence, to describe several ways in which raw intelligence information may be presented without proper context. It is a system created to solve a specific problem. The lack of context may be due to the specialized nature, or security requirements, of a particular intelligence collection technology. It also has limited focus and data within is not easily shared. Alternatively, the lack of context may come from a particular group, in the national policy structure, selectively presenting only that information that supports certain conclusions. The term is typically used in the health care system. An example would be how money funded for research is not evenly allocated, but instead goes toward one specific ailment remedy.\n\nAccording to a staff study for the United States House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence, in the 104th Congress, \"The most common criticism of the current collection management process, and one in which we concur, is that it is dominated by 'stovepipes,' i.e., types of collection that are managed so as to be largely distinct from one another.\"\n\nThe most common types of intelligence collection, and to some extent processing, which are commonly found in \"stovepipes\", include signal intelligence (SIGINT), imagery intelligence (IMINT), and human intelligence (HUMINT). While there are other forms of sensitive intelligence collection, these \"big three\", in a proper use, complement one another. A SIGINT communications intercept, for example, may suggest the presence of a particular military unit in a given location. For example, as part of the Operation Quicksilver deception plan during World War II, dummy communications were generated for the fictitious First United States Army Group (FUSAG), ostensibly commanded by George Patton, in order to convince the Germans that the main attack would come at the Pas-de-Calais, rather than the real target of Normandy. Dummy equipment was positioned in the places consistent with the communications, and a very few German high-altitude photographic aircraft brought back evidence apparently confirming IMINT. The British, however, had jailed or turned all German HUMINT spies, through the Double Cross System. Had a real spy been able to get to a FUSAG location, he would have seen the tanks were inflatable rubber decoys. The British, however, allowed only false confirmations of real tanks to be sent.\n\nThe use of the term \"stovepiping\" has also been used in relation to global health for many years now. It refers to the misallocation of funds from donors to organisations in response to a certain disease. This occurs when the interests of the donors are considered instead of the interests of the recipients and as a result money is funnelled into specific areas of a given health care system instead of the being used to tackle a larger issue. This is particularly evident through the aid that has been provided to Africa in relation to HIV/AIDS, despite not being one of the top three causes of death on the continent. As a result, it is seen to meet the moral demands of the donors and not the recipients of the aid.\n\nAnother meaning of stovepiping is \"piping\" of raw intelligence data directly to decision makers, bypassing established procedures for review by professional intelligence analysts for validity (a process known as vetting), an important concern since the information may have been presented by a dishonest source with ulterior motives, or may be invalid for a myriad of other reasons. For example, numerous articles and books have subsequently appeared to detail how conflicts between the Bush Administration and the intelligence community marred the reporting on Iraq’s weapons.\n\nSome believe that one reason that \"warning signs\" of the terrorists attacks on September 11, 2001, were not acted upon effectively was a long-standing compartmentalization and duplication of intelligence gathering and sharing at the federal, state and local levels. The 9/11 Commission noted, \"lines of operational authority run to the expanding executive departments, and they are guarded for understandable reasons: the DCI commands the CIA’s personnel overseas; the Secretary of Defense will not yield to others in conveying commands to military forces; the Justice Department will not give up the responsibility of deciding whether to seek arrest warrants. But the result is that each agency or department needs its own intelligence apparatus to support the performance of its duties.\"\n\nThe Office of Special Plans (OSP), created by the George W. Bush administration, is credited with stovepiping raw intelligence related to Saddam Hussein's government in Iraq to high level Bush administration officials. Media analysis and professional analysts from other U.S. government departments subsequently determined that many of these reports originated with dishonest sources or were untrue for other reasons (see e.g. Curveball), and the process of vetting would have prevented their reaching decision makers through normal channels. As one report stated, \"The 2003 Iraq prewar intelligence failure was not simply a case of the U.S. intelligence community providing flawed data to policy-makers. It also involved subversion of the competitive intelligence analysis process, where unofficial intelligence boutiques 'stovepiped' misleading intelligence assessments directly to policy-makers and undercut intelligence community input that ran counter to the White House’s preconceived preventive war of choice against Iraq.\" This stovepiping by the OSP had the effect of providing a substantial portion of the untrue allegations that formed the publicly declared justifications for the 2003 Invasion of Iraq, such as allegations of collaboration with Al Qaeda and an ongoing program of weapons of mass destruction.\n\nA government-published document which refers to \"stove-piping\" concerned the attacks in the American Consulate in Benghazi, Libya in 2012. The report, \"Accountability Review Board for Benghazi to Examine the Facts and Circumstances Surrounding the Attacks of September 11–12, 2012\" was promulgated in declassified status. One of the two references to stove-piping states, \"...in the months leading up to September 11, 2012, security in Benghazi was not recognized and implemented as a 'shared responsibility' in Washington, resulting in stove-piped discussions and decisions on policy and security.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "167198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=167198", "title": "Strategic Petroleum Reserve (United States)", "text": "Strategic Petroleum Reserve (United States)\n\nThe Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR) is an emergency fuel storage of petroleum maintained underground in Louisiana and Texas by the United States Department of Energy (DOE). It is the largest emergency supply in the world, with the capacity to hold up to . The United States started the petroleum reserve in 1975 after oil supplies were interrupted during the 1973–1974 oil embargo, to mitigate future supply disruptions.\n\nThe current inventory is displayed on the SPR's website. , the inventory was . This equates to about 660.0/18.49 round 0 days of oil at 2013 daily U.S. consumption levels of or 660.0/9.859 round 0 days of oil at 2013 daily U.S. import levels of . However, the maximum total withdrawal capability from the SPR is only , so it would take over 660.0/4.4 round 0 days to use the entire inventory. At recent market prices ($69 a barrel as of December 2014), the SPR holds over $18.0 billion in sweet crude and approximately $25.5 billion in sour crude (assuming a $15/barrel discount for sulfur content). The total value of the crude in the SPR is approximately $43.5 billion. The price paid for the oil is $20.1 billion (an average of $28.42 per barrel).\n\nPurchases of crude oil resumed in January 2009 using revenues available from the 2005 Hurricane Katrina emergency sale. The DOE purchased at a cost of $553 million.\n\nThe SPR management office is located in Elmwood, Louisiana, a suburb of New Orleans.\n\nThe reserve is stored at four sites on the Gulf of Mexico, each located near a major center of petrochemical refining and processing. Each site contains a number of artificial caverns created in salt domes below the surface.\n\nIndividual caverns within a site can be up to 1000 m below the surface, average dimensions are 60 m wide and 600 m deep, and capacity ranges from . Almost $4 billion was spent on the facilities. The decision to store in caverns was made in order to reduce costs; the Department of Energy claims it is roughly 10 times cheaper to store oil below surface with the added advantages of no leaks and a constant natural churn of the oil due to a temperature gradient in the caverns. The caverns were created by drilling down and then dissolving the salt with water.\n\n\n\n\nAccess to the reserve is determined by the conditions written into the 1975 Energy Policy and Conservation Act (EPCA), primarily to counter a severe supply interruption. The maximum removal rate, by physical constraints, is . Oil could begin entering the marketplace 13 days after a presidential order. The Department of Energy says it has about 59 days of import protection in the SPR. This, combined with private sector inventory protection, is estimated to equal 115 days of imports.\n\nThe SPR was created following the 1973 energy crisis. The EPCA of December 22, 1975, made it policy for the United States to establish a reserve up to 1 billion barrels (159 million m³) of petroleum. A number of existing storage sites were acquired in 1977. Construction of the first surface facilities began in June 1977. On July 21, 1977, the first oil—approximately of Saudi Arabian light crude—was delivered to the SPR. Fill was suspended in Fiscal Year 1995 to devote budget resources to refurbishing the SPR equipment and extending the life of the complex. The current SPR sites are expected to be usable until around 2025. Fill was resumed in 1999.\n\nOn November 13, 2001, shortly after the September 11 terrorist attacks, President George W. Bush announced that the SPR would be filled, saying, \"The Strategic Petroleum Reserve is an important element of our Nation's energy security. To maximize long-term protection against oil supply disruptions, I am directing the Secretary of Energy to fill the SPR up to its capacity.\" The highest prior level was reached in 1994 with . At the time of President Bush's directive, the SPR contained about . Since the directive in 2001, the capacity of the SPR increased by due to natural enlargement of the salt caverns in which the reserves are stored. The Energy Policy Act of 2005 has since directed the Secretary of Energy to fill the SPR to the full authorized capacity, a process which will require a physical expansion of the Reserve's facilities.\n\nOn August 17, 2005, the SPR reached its goal of , or about 96% of its now-increased capacity. Approximately 60% of the crude oil in the reserve is the less desirable sour (high sulfur content) variety. The oil delivered to the reserve is \"royalty-in-kind\" oil—royalties owed to the U.S. government by operators who acquire leases on the federally owned Outer Continental Shelf in the Gulf of Mexico. These royalties were previously collected as cash, but in 1998 the government began testing the effectiveness of collecting royalties \"in kind\"—or in other words, acquiring the crude oil itself. This mechanism was adopted when refilling the SPR began, and once filling is completed, revenues from the sale of future royalties will be paid into the federal treasury.\n\nOn April 25, 2006, President Bush announced a temporary halt to petroleum deposits to the SPR as part of a four-point program to alleviate high fuel prices.\n\nOn January 23, 2007, President Bush suggested in his State of the Union speech that Congress should approve expansion of the current reserve capacity to twice its current level.\n\nOn May 16, 2008, the U.S. Department of Energy (DOE) said it would halt all deliveries to the Strategic Petroleum Reserve sometime in July. This announcement came days after Congress voted to direct the Bush administration to do the same.\n\nOn January 2, 2009, after a sharp decline in fuel prices, DOE said that it would begin buying approximately of crude oil to fill the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, replenishing supplies that were sold after hurricanes Katrina and Rita in 2005. The purchase would be funded by the roughly $600 million received from those emergency sales.\n\nOn September 9, 2011, a Notice of Cancellation was published in the \"Federal Register\" after Congress rescinded funding for the expansion of the Strategic Petroleum Reserve, reversing the SPR expansion initiative previously directed under the Energy Policy Act of 2005.\n\nOn October 20, 2014, a report by the U.S. Government Accountability Office (GAO) recommended reducing the size of the Reserve. According to the report, the amount of oil held in reserve exceeds the amount required to be kept on hand given the need for imported crude oil had decreased in recent years. The report said DOE agreed with the GAO recommendation.\n\nAccording to the 1975 Sinai Interim Agreement signed by the United States and Israel, as a precondition for Israel's return of the Sinai Peninsula and its associated oil reserves to Egypt, in an emergency the United States was obligated to make oil available for sale to Israel for up to five years. Israel has never used the agreement, however. The agreement was updated in 1979, 1994, 2004, and, most recently, in 2015 for a ten-year period.\n\nAs a member of the International Energy Agency (IEA), the United States must stock an amount of petroleum equivalent to at least 90 days of U.S. imports. The SPR contained an equivalent to 141 days of imports as of September 2016. The United States is also obligated to contribute 43.9% of petroleum in any IEA-coordinated release.\n\nThe Strategic Petroleum Reserve is primarily a crude petroleum reserve, not a stockpile of refined petroleum fuels such as gasoline, diesel and kerosene. Although the United States maintains some extra supply of refined petroleum fuels, e.g., the Northeast Home Heating Oil Reserve and Northeast Gasoline Supply Reserve under the aegis of the Department of Energy (DOE), the government does not maintain gasoline reserves on anything like the scale of the SPR. The SPR is intended to give the United States protection from disruptions in oil supplies. In the event of a major disruption to refinery operations, the United States would have to call on members of the International Energy Agency that stockpile refined products, and use refining capacities outside of the continental United States for relief.\n\nThere have been suggestions that the DOE should increase its supplies and stockpile both gasoline and jet fuel.\nSome countries and zones have a strategic reserve of both petroleum and petroleum products. In some cases, this includes a strategic reserve of jet fuel.\n\nFormer Secretary of Energy Samuel Bodman said that the Department would consider new facilities for refined products as part of an expansion of .\n\n\n\"Note: Loans are made on a case-by-case basis to alleviate supply disruptions. Once conditions return to normal, the loan is returned to the SPR with additional oil as interest.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "219789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=219789", "title": "Swedish People's Party of Finland", "text": "Swedish People's Party of Finland\n\nThe Swedish People's Party of Finland (; ) is a liberal-centrist political party in Finland aiming to represent the interests of the minority Swedish-speaking population of Finland. An ethnic catch-all party, the party's main election issue has been since its inception the Swedish-speaking Finns' right to their own language and to maintain the Swedish language's position in Finland. The party was in governmental position 1979–2015 with one or two seats in the government and collaborated with the centre-right as well as the centre-left in the Parliament of Finland. After the 2015 election SFP was left out of the government formed by the three biggest parties.\n\nThe fact that both the Finnish centre-right and centre-left have needed the support from the party has meant that they have been able to affect politics of Finland on a larger scale than the party's actual size would suggest. The position of the Swedish language as one of two official languages in Finland and the Swedish-speaking minority's right to the Swedish culture are two of the results of the party's influence in Finnish politics. The party is a member of Liberal International and the Alliance of Liberals and Democrats for Europe (ALDE) Party.\n\n The Swedish Party (1870–1906), a parliamentary elite party based on members in the Diet of Finland, is the historical predecessor of the Swedish People's Party of Finland. It was a part of the Svecoman movement and its main policy was opposition of the Fennoman movement.\n\nUnlike Fennomans who were largely liberal on other matters than the language question, the Svecoman were conservative. Axel Lille and Axel Olof Freudenthal are often considered as some of the main \"founding fathers\" of the movement. Most members of the Liberal Party joined the Swedish Party in the 1880s, after the Liberals ceased to exist as a distinct party. The Swedish People's Party of Finland was founded in the 1906 party congress of the Swedish Party, making it one of the oldest parties in Finland. The first leader of Swedish People's Party was Axel Lille.\n\nThe current leader of the party is Anna-Maja Henriksson. In the Parliament of Finland the representative for Åland is usually included in SFP's parliamentary group, regardless of his/her party affiliation. This is because the political parties in Åland have no counterparts in Mainland Finland, but the SFP's interests have much in common with those of Åland as far as the Swedish language is concerned.\n\nThe party receives its main electoral support from the Swedish speaking minority, which makes up about 5.5% of Finland's population. During its history, the party has suffered slow but steady decline in adherence, following the decline of the percentage of Swedish-speaking population: in 1907 it got 12% of national votes, after World War II 7% and in the 2011 parliamentary election 4.3% (9 MPs). In municipal elections, it holds large majorities in municipalities with a Swedish-speaking majority.\n\nDespite its position as one of the minor political parties in the Finnish parliament it has frequently been one of the partners forming the governing coalition cabinets. Since 1956, the year when Urho Kekkonen was elected President, the party has been nearly continuously in the government. It has been part of all coalitions with the significant exception of Paasio's first cabinet (1966–68), which included only socialists (Social Democratic Party (SDP), the split SDP faction Social Democratic Union of Workers and Smallholders and Finnish People's Democratic League) and the Centre Party.\n\nShort periods of rule by single-party minority governments, Miettunen cabinet (1961–62, Centre) and Paasio's second government (1972, SDP) and of nonpartisan caretaker governments have also interrupted its stay in the government. For this reason, SFP is often criticized for being a single-issue party that allegedly accepts nearly all other policies as long as its own vital interest, the status of the Swedish language is maintained.\n\nHowever, although Vanhanen's first cabinet made Swedish a voluntary subject in the upper secondary school's matriculation exam, SFP remained in the government. In contrast, the Greens left the previous government after a new nuclear power plant was decided in 2002.\n\nThe SFP's long continuous participation in the Finnish cabinets came to an end in 2015 when it was left out of the Sipilä cabinet.\n\nRecently the SFP has emphasized the liberal part of its programme, attempting to woo voters outside its traditional Swedish-speaking electorate. In 2010, the party added the word \"Suomen\" (\"of Finland\") to its official Finnish name.\n\nThe Swedish language is one of the two official languages of Finland. The SFP has as its main raison d'être the protection and strengthening of the position of the Swedish language in Finland.\n\nThe Swedish People's Party of Finland has the most eclectic profile of any of the political parties in Finland, its members and supporters including (chiefly):\n\nAlthough the SFP represents a small minority of Finland, Swedish mother tongue per se is not much of a political handicap. Several times Swedish speaking presidential candidates have gathered considerable support, although not necessarily as candidates for the Swedish People's Party of Finland:\n\nSFP supports Finnish NATO membership and envisions that Finland could become a full NATO member by 2025.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "75792", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=75792", "title": "Synod", "text": "Synod\n\nA synod () is a council of a church, usually convened to decide an issue of doctrine, administration or application. The word \"synod\" comes from the Greek σύνοδος (\"sýnodos\") meaning \"assembly\" or \"meeting\", and it is synonymous with the Latin word \"concilium\" meaning \"council\". Originally, synods were meetings of bishops, and the word is still used in that sense in Catholicism, Oriental Orthodoxy and Eastern Orthodoxy. In modern usage, the word often refers to the governing body of a particular church, whether its members are meeting or not. It is also sometimes used to refer to a church that is governed by a synod.\n\nSometimes the phrase \"general synod\" or \"general council\" refers to an ecumenical council. The word \"synod\" also refers to the standing council of high-ranking bishops governing some of the autocephalous Eastern Orthodox churches. Similarly, the day-to-day governance of patriarchal and major archiepiscopal Eastern Catholic Churches is entrusted to a permanent synod.\n\nIn Eastern Orthodox and Oriental Orthodox churches, synods of bishops are meetings of bishops within each autonomous Church and are the primary vehicle for the election of bishops and the establishment of inter-diocesan ecclesiastical laws.\n\nA \"sobor\" (Church Slavonic: съборъ, \"assembly\") is a formal gathering or council of bishops together with other clerical and lay delegates representing the church to deal with matters of faith, morality, rite, and canonical and cultural life. The synod in the Western churches is similar, but it is distinguished by being usually limited to an assembly of bishops.\n\nThe term is found among those Eastern Orthodox Churches that use Slavic language (the Russian, Ukrainian, Bulgarian, Serbian and Macedonian Orthodox Churches), along with the Romanian Orthodox Church.\n\nThe presence of clerical and lay delegates is for the purpose of discerning the consensus of the church on important matters; however, the bishops form an upper house of the sobor, and the laity cannot overrule their decisions.\n\nKievan Rus' chronicles record the first known East Slavic church sobor as having taken place in Kiev in 1051. Sobors were convened periodically from then on; one notable assembly held in 1415 formed a separate metropoly for the church in the Grand Duchy of Lithuanian lands.\n\nImportant sobors in the History of the Russian Orthodox Church are:\n\n\nA bishop may also call a sobor for his diocese, which again would have delegates from the clergy, monasteries and parishes of his diocese, to discuss important matters. Such diocesan sobors may be held annually or only occasionally.\n\nIn Roman Catholic usage, \"synod\" and \"council\" are theoretically synonymous as they are of Greek and Latin origins, respectively, both meaning an authoritative meeting of bishops for the purpose of church administration in the areas of teaching (faith and morals) or governance (church discipline or law). However, in modern use, synod and council are applied to specific categories of such meetings and so do not really overlap. A synod generally meets every three years and is thus designated an \"Ordinary General Assembly.\" However, \"Extraordinary\" synods can be called to deal with specific situations. There are also \"Special\" synods for the Church in a specific geographic area such as the one held November 16-December 12, 1997, for the Church in America.\n\nWhile the words \"synod\" and \"council\" usually refer to a transitory meeting, the term \"Synod of Bishops\" or \"Synod of the Bishops\", is also applied to a permanent body established in 1965 as an advisory body of the pope. It holds assemblies at which bishops and religious superiors, elected by bishops conferences or the Union of Superiors General or appointed by the Pope vote on proposals (\"propositiones\") to present for the pope's consideration, and which in practice the pope uses as the basis of \"post-synodal apostolic exhortations\" on the themes discussed. While an assembly of the Synod of Bishops thus expresses its collective wishes, it does not issue decrees, unless in certain cases the pope authorizes it to do so, and even then an assembly's decision requires ratification by the pope. The pope serves as president of an assembly or appoints the president, determines the agenda, and summons, suspends, and dissolves the assembly.\n\nModern Catholic synod themes:\n\nMeetings of bishops in the Roman empire are known from the mid-third century and already numbered twenty by the time of the First Council of Nicaea (325). Thereafter they continued by the hundreds into the sixth century. Those authorized by an emperor and often attended by him came to be called ecumenical, meaning throughout the world (as the world was thought of in Western terms). Today, \"Council\" in Roman Catholic canon law typically refers to an irregular meeting of the entire episcopate of a nation, region, or the world for the purpose of legislation with binding force. Those contemplated in canon law are the following:\n\n\nPlenary and provincial councils are categorized as particular councils. A particular council is composed of all the bishops of the territory (including coadjutors and auxiliaries) as well as other ecclesiastical ordinaries who head particular churches in the territory (such as territorial abbots and vicars apostolic). Each of these members has a vote on council legislation. Additionally, the following persons by law are part of particular councils but only participate in an advisory capacity: vicars general and episcopal, presidents of Catholic universities, deans of Catholic departments of theology and canon law, some major superiors elected by all the major superiors in the territory, some rectors of seminaries elected by the rectors of seminaries in the territory, and two members from each cathedral chapter, presbyterial council, or pastoral council in the territory (can. 443). The convoking authority can also select other members of the faithful (including the laity) to participate in the council in an advisory capacity.\n\nMeetings of the entire episcopate of a supra-national region have historically been called councils as well, such as the various Councils of Carthage in which all the bishops of North Africa were to attend.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages, some councils were legatine, called by a papal legate rather than the pope or bishop.\n\nSynods in Eastern Rite Catholic Churches are similar to synods in Orthodox churches in that they are the primary vehicle for election of bishops and establishment of inter-diocesan ecclesiastical laws. The term \"synod\" in Latin Rite canon law, however, refers to meetings of a representative, thematic, non-legislative (advisory) or mixed nature or in some other way do not meet the qualifications of a \"council.\" Examples include:\n\n\nNational Episcopal Conferences are another development of the Second Vatican Council. They are permanent bodies consisting of all the Latin rite bishops of a nation and those equivalent to diocesan bishops in law (i.e. territorial abbots). Bishops of other \"sui juris\" churches and papal nuncios are not members of episcopal conferences by law, though the conference itself may invite them in an advisory or voting capacity (can. 450).\n\nWhile councils (can. 445) and diocesan synods (can. 391 & 466) have full legislative powers in their areas of competence, national episcopal conferences may only issue supplementary legislation when authorized to do so in canon law or by decree of the Holy See. Additionally, any such supplemental legislation requires a two-thirds vote of the conference and review by the Holy See (can. 455) to have the force of law. Without such authorization and review, episcopal conferences are deliberative only and exercise no authority over their member bishops or dioceses.\n\nIn the Anglican Communion, synods are elected by clergy and laity. In most Anglican churches, there is a geographical hierarchy of synods, with \"General Synod\" at the top; bishops, clergy and laity meet as \"houses\" within the synod.\n\n\"Diocesan synods\" are convened by a bishop in his or her diocese, and consist of elected clergy and lay members.\n\n\"Deanery synods\" are convened by the \"Rural Dean\" (or \"Area Dean\") and consist of all clergy licensed to a benefice within the deanery, plus elected lay members.\n\nIn Lutheran traditions a synod can can be a legislative body at various levels of the church administration. It can also refer to an administrative region or an entire church body.\n\n\nA few Lutheran churches, such as the Church of Sweden or the Evangelical Regional Church in Württemberg, allow for the formation of political parties (also known as nominating groups [], church party or colloquy circle []) to nominate candidates for the Synod as a legislation; it is an extension of the idea of multi-ideological democracy within the church. Also the former Evangelical Church of the old-Prussian Union, comprising mostly Lutheran but also some Reformed and United Protestant congregations, had church parties in its presbyterial and synodal elections.\n\nIn the Presbyterian system of church governance the synod is a level of administration between the local presbytery and the national general assembly. Some denominations use the synod, such as the Presbyterian Church in Canada, Uniting Church in Australia, and the Presbyterian Church USA. However some other churches do not use the synod at all, and the Church of Scotland dissolved its synods in 1993, see List of Church of Scotland synods and presbyteries.\n\nIn Swiss and southern German Reformed churches, where the Reformed churches are organized as regionally defined independent churches (such as Evangelical Reformed Church of Zurich or Reformed Church of Berne), the synod corresponds to the general assembly of Presbyterian churches. In Reformed churches, the synod can denote a regional meeting of representatives of various classes (\"regional synod\"), or the general denominational meeting of representatives from the regional synods (\"general\" or \"national synod\"). Some churches, especially the smaller denominations, do not have the regional synod tier (for example, the Reformed Church in the United States (RCUS)).\n\nIn the Democratic Republic of the Congo, the vast majority of Protestant denominations have regrouped under a religious institution named the Church of Christ in Congo or CCC, often referred to – within the Congo – simply as The Protestant Church. In the CCC structure, the \"national synod\" is the general assembly of the various churches that constitutes the CCC. From the Synod is drawn an Executive Committee, and a secretariat. There are also synods of the CCC in every province of the Congo, known appropriately as \"provincial synods\". The CCC regroups 62 Protestant denominations.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "92913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=92913", "title": "Temporal power (papal)", "text": "Temporal power (papal)\n\nThe temporal power or temporal jurisdiction of the popes is the political and secular governmental activity of the popes of the Roman Catholic Church, as distinguished from their spiritual and pastoral activity.\n\nPope Gregory II's defiance of the Byzantine emperor Leo III the Isaurian as a result of the first iconoclastic controversy (726 AD) in the Eastern Empire, prepared the way for a long series of revolts, schisms and civil wars that eventually led to the establishment of the temporal power of the popes.\n\nFor over a thousand years popes ruled as sovereign over an amalgam of territories on the Italian peninsula known as the Papal States, from the capital, Rome.\n\nTheologian Robert Bellarmine, in his 16th century dogmatic work \"Disputationes\" strongly affirmed the authority of the pope as the vicar of Christ. However, he reasoned that since Christ did not \"exercise\" his temporal power, nor may the pope.\nIn 1590, Pope Sixtus V had, or very nearly had, the first volume placed on the Index Librorum Prohibitorum for denying temporal hegemony to the papacy.\n\nThe temporal power was abolished by Napoleon Bonaparte, who dissolved the Papal States and incorporated Rome and Latium into his French Empire in 1809. The temporal power was restored by the Great Powers at the conclusion of the Napoleonic Wars in the 1815 Congress of Vienna. The Napoleonic civil laws were abolished, and most civil servants were removed from office. Popular opposition to the reconstituted corrupt clerical government led to numerous revolts, which were suppressed by the intervention of the Austrian army.\n\nIn November 1848, following the assassination of his minister Pellegrino Rossi, Pope Pius IX fled Rome. During a political rally in February 1849, a young heretic, the Abbé Arduini, described the temporal power of the popes as a \"historical lie, a political imposture, and a religious immorality.\" On 9 February 1849, the newly elected Roman Assembly proclaimed the Roman Republic. Subsequently, the Constitution of the Roman Republic abolished the temporal power, although the independence of the pope as head of the Catholic Church was guaranteed by article 8 of the \"Principi fondamentali\".\n\nAt the end of June 1849, the Roman Republic was crushed by 40,000 French troops sent by Louis Napoleon Bonaparte (later Napoleon III), at the urging of the ultramontane French clerical party. The temporal power was restored and propped up by a French garrison.\n\nIn 1859–60, the Papal States lost Romagna, Marche and Umbria. These regions were incorporated into the Kingdom of Italy, and the temporal power was reduced to Rome and the region of Lazio. At this point, some ultramontane groups proposed that the temporal power be elevated into a dogma. According to Raffaele De Cesare:\nHowever, following the Austro-Prussian War, Austria had recognized the Kingdom of Italy. Thus the revival of the temporal power of the Bishop of Rome was deemed impossible. Some, primarily Italian, clergy suggested an ecumenical council to dogmatically define papal infallibility as an article of faith, binding upon the consciences of all Catholic faithful. This doctrinal view, however, initially proposed by Franciscan partisans in opposition to the prerogative of Popes to contradict the more favorable decrees of their predecessors, faced significant resistance outside of Italy prior to and during the First Vatican Council.\n\nFor practical purposes, the temporal power of the popes ended on 20 September 1870, when the Italian Army breached the Aurelian Walls at Porta Pia and entered Rome. This completed the Risorgimento.\nThe pope's alternative claims to reign in religion and to reign in a state were reflected in the possession of two official papal residences: the Apostolic Palace in the Vatican, which served as their official religious residence, and the Quirinal Palace, which was their official residence as sovereign of the Papal States.\nIn 1870 papal rule in the Papal States was deposed; the territories were included in the territory of the Kingdom of Italy with Kings of Italy using the Quirinale as their official state palace.\n\nPopes continued to assert that their deposition from temporal jurisdiction in the Papal States was illegal until 1929. Catholics were prohibited from voting in Italian elections and Italian state and royal institutions were boycotted as part of their campaign for a return of the papal states. In 1929, with the Lateran Treaty the papacy and the Italian state (then under the dictatorship of Benito Mussolini) agreed to recognise each other, with the state paying the Church compensation for the loss of the territories. The pope was recognised as sovereign of a new state, the Vatican City, over which he continues to exert temporal power.\n\nOn 20 September 2000, an item in the Catholic publication \"Avvenire\" stated:\nThe Papal Coronation and the papal crown (the Papal Tiara) were both interpreted as reflecting a continuing claim to temporal jurisdiction by the papacy. However, in his homily at his October 1978 Papal Inauguration, Pope John Paul II dismissed that claim and asserted that the papacy had long had no wish to possess any temporal jurisdiction outside the Vatican.\n\n"}
{"id": "41686951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41686951", "title": "The Essex Decision", "text": "The Essex Decision\n\nThe Essex Decision was a ruling made by the English High Court of Admiralty on 22 May 1805 regarding the capture of the American merchant vessel, \"Essex\". The decision called upon the antiquated Rule of 1756, which stated that neutral nations in wartime were only permitted to carry goods that they were permitted to carry in peacetime. \"Essex\" was ruled to have violated the Rule of 1756. This led to a sharp increase in British seizure of American ships by the same reasoning and was one of the leading causes of the War of 1812.\n\nThe Napoleonic Wars from 1793-1815 created a shipping void in both Britain and France due to cargo vessels being drafted into military service and relaxed mercantilist policies. With Britain and France blockading each other, Americans helped fill the shipping void and per capita credits in the balance of payments more than tripled due to stimulated overseas commerce.\n\nThe Rule of 1756 makes an important distinction. Trading with the enemy was permissible so that trade carried out in peacetime was not interrupted while trading for the enemy was not permissible. The British reserved the right to interfere with trade that would not have occurred in peacetime. Since American vessels were not allowed to carry cargo to a country directly from its colonies, they would often stop at an American port to evade the British prohibition. The Lords Commissioners of Appeal in Prize Causes ruled that a brief stop at an American port did not neutralize an enemy cargo when the intended final destination was another enemy port. \"Essex\" was captured while carrying cargo from the French West Indies to France and therefore its seizure was legal under British law.\n\nThe \"Essex Decision\" introduced a series of trade restriction to impede American trade with France. The United State contested these restrictions as illegal under international law. This fueled growing tensions between the British and the United States. The British seized almost 1,500 ships in total and many American sailors were forcefully drafted into the British Royal Navy (a process known as impressment).\n\nCongress and President Thomas Jefferson were fearful of becoming entangled in war and declared the Embargo Act of 1807. This prohibited the United States from trading with all foreign ports. This attempt to gain respect of American neutrality backfired as drastic declines in export values and trade earning ensued. With building pressures in port cities, the Non-Importation Act of 1809 was passed to partially open trade. This specifically prohibited trade with Great Britain, France and all of their colonies.\n\nContinuing seizures of American ships by the British and numerous other complications including disputes between the United States and Britain along the Canadian borders finally led to the War of 1812. During the war the British seized more than 1,000 additional ships and blockaded almost the entire United States coast.\n\n"}
{"id": "10997623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10997623", "title": "The Swiss Conspiracy", "text": "The Swiss Conspiracy\n\nThe Swiss Conspiracy is a 1976 action film directed by Jack Arnold and starring David Janssen, Senta Berger and Elke Sommer. It was co-produced between Germany and the United States.\n\nA Swiss bank learns that the confidentiality of several anonymous numbered accounts has been compromised and blackmail threats have been made to five holders of the accounts. They include a crooked arms dealer, who received a demand for five million Swiss francs. He refuses to pay and is shot dead. The bank is also told to pay ten million francs to keep the accounts secret.\n\nThe bank hires David Christopher (Janssen), a former U.S. Treasury official who now resides in Geneva. In the course of his investigation, Christopher talks to the four living blackmailees - beautiful Zürich resident Denise Abbott (Berger), Texas businessman Dwight McGowan (John Ireland), Chicago crook Robert Hayes (John Saxon) and Dutchman Andre Kosta (Arthur Brauss).\n\nHe identifies a number of suspects. One is Rita Jensen (Sommer), the mistress of the bank's vice-president, Franz Benninger (Anton Diffring). There is also Benninger himself as well as Korsak (Curt Lowens) and Sando (David Hess), who are out to kill Hayes and Christopher.\n\nBank president Johann Hurtil (Ray Milland) cannot believe that Benninger is corrupt. However, it emerges that the latter transferred control of a bank account to his mistress, who was legally entitled to it but didn't have the correct documents.\n\nCaptain Hans Frey (Inigo Gallo) of the Swiss Federal Police is suspicious of Christopher's activities and follows him.\n\nThe bank decides to pay the blackmailer, using uncut diamonds. Christopher insists on accompanying the diamonds to the collection point high in the snow-covered Alps. The blackmailees turn out to be blackmailing each other and the collector of the diamonds is shot, falling off a high alpine rock face. Christopher recovers the stones.\n\nThough burdened by a poor soundtrack and many obvious James Bond-esque gimmicks, the film is notable for beautiful scenery, being filmed entirely in and around Zurich.\n\n"}
{"id": "4339749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4339749", "title": "Three-volley salute", "text": "Three-volley salute\n\nThe three-volley salute is a ceremonial act performed at military funerals and sometimes also police funerals. The custom originates from the European dynastic wars, where the fighting ceased so the dead and wounded could be removed. Then, three shots were fired into the air to signal that the battle could resume.\n\nIt should not be confused with the 21-gun salute (or 19-gun or 17-gun, etc.) which is fired by a battery of artillery pieces.\n\nIn the United States it is part of the drill and ceremony of the Honor Guard. It consists of a rifle party firing blank cartridges into the air three times.\n\nA rifle party usually has an odd number of members, from 3 to 7. The firearm used is typically a rifle, but at some police funerals, shotguns or handguns are used. The party usually stands so that the muzzles are pointed over the casket. However, if mourners are present near the grave, the party stands some distance away (often recommended at least 50 feet) so as to not deafen the attendees and to minimize the disturbance. If the service is being performed indoors, the firing party stands outside the building, often near the front entrance. On the command of the NCO-in-charge, the party raises their weapons and fires three times in unison. \nModern United States military parties use M1, M14 or M16 rifles. The use of blank cartridges means these weapon's semi-automatic gas action will not function, requiring manual cycling of the next round between shots. Some parties equip the rifle with a blank-firing adapter, which eliminates this step from the drill after the first shot, though this is seen by some as less traditional. Similarly, the M1 and M14 are generally preferred over the current issue M16 because the appearance of these older rifles is more traditional and the charging handles are more easily operated in a dignified, ceremonial manner.\n\nA similar ceremony is used by the armed forces of the United Kingdom and the Commonwealth.\n\nIrish Republicans also fire a three volley salute at the funerals of IRA and INLA Volunteers.\n"}
{"id": "33926999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33926999", "title": "Triadization", "text": "Triadization\n\nTriadization (or triadisation) is a proposed alternative to the theory of globalization. It states that political, economic and socio-cultural integration have been limited to three regions of the world: Japan and the newly industrialized countries of Southeast Asia, Western Europe and North America. \n\nOutside of these regions, according to the theory, the effects of so-called \"globalization\" have not been felt, and hence it cannot be truly called \"global\". Instead, the economic interdependence between the countries of the \"triad\" supposedly leads to the alienation of the developing world. This alienation is described by the theory as the result of the fact that \"fragmentation of the world into regional blocks is taking place, featured in the tendency to strengthen economic interdependence and transactions within them but not among them\". This further entrenches the position of the triad, and prevents the growth of the rest of the world.\n"}
{"id": "54014238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54014238", "title": "United Nations General Assembly Resolution 40/50", "text": "United Nations General Assembly Resolution 40/50\n\nUnited Nations General Assembly Resolution 40/50, entitled Question of Western Sahara, is a resolution of the United Nations General Assembly about the situation in Western Sahara, which was adopted on 2 December 1985 at the 40th session of the General Assembly.\n\nOn 2 December 1985, the United Nations General Assembly adopted resolution A/RES/40/50 by a recorded vote of 96 in favour to 7 against, with 39 abstentions and 17 countries not voting. The table below shows voting results by country:\n"}
{"id": "31802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31802", "title": "Universal access to education", "text": "Universal access to education\n\nUniversal access to education is the ability of all people to have equal opportunity in education, regardless of their social class, gender, ethnicity background or physical and mental disabilities. The term is used both in college admission for the middle and lower classes, and in assistive technology for the disabled. Some critics feel that this practice in higher education, as opposed to a strict meritocracy, causes lower academic standards. In order to facilitate the access of education to all, countries have right to education.\n\nUniversal access to education encourages a variety of pedagogical approaches to accomplish the dissemination of knowledge across the diversity of social, cultural, economic, national and biological backgrounds. Initially developed with the theme of equal opportunity access and inclusion of students with learning or physical and mental disabilities, the themes governing universal access to education have now expanded across all forms of ability and diversity. However, as the definition of diversity is within itself is a broad amalgamation, teachers exercising universal access will continually face challenges and incorporate adjustments in their lesson plan to foster themes of equal opportunity of education.\n\nAs universal access continues to be incorporated into the U.S. education system, professors and instructors at the college level are required (in some instances by law) to rethink methods of facilitating universal access in their classrooms. Universal access to college education may involve the provision of a variety of different assessment methods of learning and retention. For example, in order to determine how much of the material was learned, a professor may enlist multiple methods of assessment. Methods of assessment may include a comprehensive exam, unit exams, portfolios, research papers, literature reviews, an oral exam or homework assignments. Providing a variety of ways to assess the extent of learning and retention will not only identify the gaps in universal access but may also elucidate the ways to improve universal access.\n\nIn 2009 the House of Indian Parliament and the President of India both signed and approved a bill that would grant free law mandated education for children ages six to fourteen. It was a great step towards universal education for all. Muchkund Dubey author of the article “The Right of Children to Free and Compulsory Education Act, 2009 : The Story of Missed Opportunity\" discusses and highlights the issues of access, quality of education, financial implication, and discrimination.\n\nIn the United States, Brown vs. Board of Education was a landmark decision because it found and declared that, “separate educational facilities are inherently unequal”. This began the process of desegregation in many schools that had not desegregated yet. The significance of Brown vs. Board was the universal right of all students to attend educational institutions equally rather than separately based on their race. Jonathan Kozol, author of The Shame of the Nation, talks about how “physical conditions in these newly integrated schools were generally more cheerful…state of mind among the teachers and the children [was] more high-spirited” in the aftermath of desegregation.\n\nUniversal Access to education means people have equal opportunities to take part in any educational system. However, not all individuals, groups, or ethnic groups are given equal access. The United States is credited with the current idea of universal access as a concern for handicapped persons. Two international agencies (World Health Organization and World Bank) estimated that around one billion people all over the world various types of disabilities. Between 93 and 150 million of them are children. Plan International revealed that these kids will not possibly attend school and if ever they enroll will be separated from normal pupils. The Global Partnership for Education said approximately 90 percent of children afflicted by disabilities from low and middle income nations are not studying. Historically, these kids are not included in the ordinary education system and referred to special learning schools.\n\nIt is unfortunate that education up to this very day is not accessible to millions of schoolchildren globally. 72 million or more children of primary education age do not go to school. Some 759 million adults are uneducated. They do not have the knowledge needed in improving their families’ living conditions. Poverty leads to lack of education. In almost all countries (developing and developed), children are denied education as a result of inequalities that emanate from health, gender, and cultural identity like religion, language, and ethnic origin. Factors associated with poverty including unemployment, illiterate parents, and ailments increase the possibility of non-schooling, and dropout rates. Universal primary education has turned out as a major problem for many nations. Majority of these developing states do not possess sufficient financial resources to build schools, provide books and other materials, and recruit, train, and pay teachers. The Sub-Saharan African region is the most affected region as 32 million African children are still uneducated. This is followed by Central and East Asia as well as the Pacific with 27 million or more. However, observers noted that universal access to education remains an attainable goal by 2030.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30997730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30997730", "title": "Vice President of El Salvador", "text": "Vice President of El Salvador\n\nVice President of El Salvador (Vicepresidente de la República) is a political position in El Salvador which is elected concurrently with the position of President of El Salvador. \n\nA list of the office holders follows. The list may not be complete. \n\n"}
{"id": "53808765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53808765", "title": "Violence Peace and Peace Research", "text": "Violence Peace and Peace Research\n\nIn Johan Galtung's 1969 paper, \"Violence, Peace and Peace Research,\" he presents his theory of the Conflict Triangle, a framework used in the study of peace and conflict, with the purpose of defining the three key elements of violence that form this \"triangle.\" The theory is based on the principle that peace must be defined by widely accepted social goals, and that any state of peace is characterized by the absence of violence. When a conflict has features of all three areas of violence, the result is a more consolidated, static state of violence in a social system, which may include a conflict or a nation-state, whereas the absence of these three typologies of violence results in peace.\n\nStructural Violence, also referred to as social injustice, is defined as injustice and inequality built into the structure of society, resulting in unequal power and, subsequently, imbalanced life chances. There is no requirement for a clear actor to be defined as committing the violence, rather it is embedded within the institutions of the society, where the power to decide the distribution of resources is uneven. Rather than conveying a physical image, structural violence is an avoidable impairment of fundamental human needs. Structural violence is increased in situations where low income individuals also suffer in the rank dimensions of education, health, and power. This is due to an overall consolidation of factors in the social structure, resulting in a high correlation between social class and disempowerment. Structural violence can be recognized through its relative stability, having been built into the social structure. This can make structural violence difficult to ascertain, despite its often vast consequences. This concept has been applied in a large number of cases, some of the most notable are listed below.\n\nAkhil Gupta argued in 2012 that structural violence has been the key influence in the nature and distribution of extreme suffering in India, driven by the Indian state in its alleged corruption, overly bureaucratic standards of governance used to exclude the middle and working classes from the political system through a system of politicized poverty.\n\nJacklyn Cock’s 1989 paper in the Review of African Political Economy applied Galtung’s theory of structural violence, analysing the role of militarized society under the apartheid regime of South Africa in the development of patriarchal values that is a form of structural violence against women. Cock found that tacit misdirection of women in society by its leadership focused their energies toward the direct and indirect incorporation of the patriarchal regime in order to maintain the status quo.\n\nMats Utas claimed that even those youth in Liberia indirectly unaffected by direct violence in the civil war of 1989-1996 suffered from structural violence in the form of association with different blocs, leading to poverty, joblessness and marginalisation effects.\n\nCultural violence is defined as any aspect of a culture that can be used to legitimise violence in its direct or structural form. Unlike direct and structural violence, then, cultural violence is a foundational principle for extended conflict. The existence of prevailing or prominent social norms make direct and structural violence seem natural or at least acceptable, and serves to explain how prominent beliefs can become so embedded in a given culture that they function as absolute and inevitable and are reproduced uncritically across generations. Galtung expanded on the concept of cultural violence in a 1990 paper also published in the Journal of Peace Research. This concept has been applied in a limited number of cases, with most occurring after Galtung’s follow up paper in 1990, some of the most notable of which are listed below.\n\nIn Ed Husain's 2007 book The Islamist, seminal extremist literature such as Sayyid Qutb's Milestones is highlighted as being particularly influential on many young Muslims in terms of defining their identity and life goals, in which the book embodies the principles outlined whereby there is a cultural imperative for violence built into the societal values or cultural values of Islam through such extremist literature.\n\nGregory Phillips argues in his 2003 book, Addictions and Healing in Aboriginal Country, that resistance to the Western medical sphere driven by previous atrocities committed against the Aboriginal community has led to a fierce resistance effort against modern medicine, addiction treatment and perhaps fuels a desire to seek out drugs and illicit substances as a starting point of addiction. Wide scale suspicion against medical practitioners and government representatives has become engendered in the Aboriginal community.\n\nIn Enduring Violence: Ladina Women's Lives in Guatemala, the 2011 book by Cecilia Menjívar, it is argued that the preexisting cultural conditions of \"mediania\", or half and half, agriculture led to women facing large scale cultural violence due to high rents, low returns and high required investment with additionally harsh conditions due to the conflict in Guatemala. Given the patriarchal culture of Guatemala, any earnings would go to the partner of the working woman, leaving a large poverty gap enshrined in the demographic diversity of the country.\n\nDirect Violence is characterised as having an actor that commits the violence, and is thus able to be traced back to persons as actors. Direct violence shows less stability, given it is subject to the preference sets of individuals, and thus is more easily recognised. Direct violence is the most visible, occurring physically or verbally, and the victim and the offender can be clearly identified. Direct violence is highly interdependent with structural and cultural violence: cultural and structural violence causes direct violence which on the other hand reinforces the former ones. This concept has been applied in a large number of cases, some of which are listed below.\n\nA 2011 paper by the International Center for Research on Women (ICRW) demonstrated the widespread nature of child marriage in South Asia. The ICRW highlighted marriage before the age of 18 as a fundamental human rights violation, one that leads to early childbearing, with significantly higher maternal mortality and morbidity rates as well as higher infant mortality rates amongst women. The paper most directly presented evidence to show that child brides are at heightened risk of violence in the home.\n\nIn Matthew Chandler's 2009 paper on so-called \"non-violent\" techniques utilised by Hezbollah still include forms of Direct Violence, most notably the threat of violence toward Fouad Siniora's allies after his 2008 order to dismantle the Hezbollah telecommunications network in 2008, which led to the freezing of the order. Further, Hezbollah are argued to have used their operation of social services, in lieu of government operations, as a ransom for support as well as rewarding their fighters with guaranteed healthcare and support for their families. Chandler argues this is due to opposition within the group to harming Lebanese civilians, who they view as \"their own\", or exacerbating conflict through civil war.\n\nIn 2005, Steven Wright made the case for Peacekeeping efforts to be regarded as violence due to increasing use of techniques such as pre-interrogation treatment, and the use of non-lethal weapons such as tear gas for crowd dispersal and plastic bullets, which he terms \"torture-lite\", being increasingly common in peacekeeping manuals across a number of nation-states and supranational organisations.\n\nGaltung focuses a section of the paper on the means of direct and structural violence, in particular, developing groups of factors that may be included as types of such forms and methods of maintaining and reinforcing the mechanisms of such violence. In terms of reinforcing factors, Galtung identifies six key areas:\n\n\nBeyond Galtung’s initial paper and thesis, scholars have applied the Conflict Triangle to a broad array of conflicts, struggles and occupations since 1969, and retroactively.\n\nJohan Galtung's Conflict Triangle and Peace Research paper are widely cited as the foundational pieces of theory within peace and conflict studies. However, they are not without criticism. Galtung uses very broad definitions of violence, conflict and peace, and applies the terms of mean both direct and indirect, negative and positive, and violence in which one cannot distinguish actors or victims, which serves to limit the direct application of the model itself.\n\nGaltung uses a positivist approach, in that he assumes that every rational tenet of the theory can be verified, serving to reject social processes beyond relationships and actions. This approach enforces a paradigm of clear-cut, currently testable propositions as the ‘whole’ of the system, and thus is often deemed reductionist. Galtung also wields an explicit normative orientation in the paper, in which there is a weighting toward evaluative statements that may show bias or simply opinion, or indeed a trend toward the institutions and concepts of peace in the West, which may serve to limit the applicability of the model more widely.\n\n"}
{"id": "58956444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58956444", "title": "WalkAway campaign", "text": "WalkAway campaign\n\nThe WalkAway campaign, also styled #WalkAway, was a social media campaign launched ahead of the 2018 mid-term elections by self-styled \"former liberal\" Brandon Straka, a hairstylist and actor from New York City, in a video released 29th June 2018 entitled \"#WalkAway - Brandon Straka, \"Why I Left The Democrat Party\"\". \n\nThe campaign's stated goal was to \"[encourage] others to walk away from the divisive left, but also [take] back the narrative from the liberal media about what it means to be a conservative in America.\" As of November 2018 the video had over 400,000 views on YouTube and 1 million on Facebook.\n\nOn 27th October 2018, Straka led a march of \"several hundred\" supporters of WalkAway along Pennsylvania Avenue in Washington, D.C.\n\nCompeting news sources disagree over the extent to which WalkAway was an example of Astroturfing rather than a genuine grassroots movement. The conservative-leaning New York Post and Fox News websites both posted favourable coverage of WalkAway in the wake of the Washington rally. President Donald Trump and former vice-presidential candidate Sarah Palin, both conservative politicians, have tweeted messages of support for Straka. Other news sources claiming \"viral\" popularity for the campaign include far-right website Breitbart News.\n\nOn the other hand, David A. Love of CNN condemned the campaign as \"pure propaganda, a psychological operation\" and \"connected to Kremlin-linked Russian bots\", a theory supported by the Russia dashboard published by the Alliance for Securing Democracy. Abby Ohlheiser in The Washington Post claimed \"There’s little actual evidence to suggest that #WalkAway represents a mass conversion of millions — or even thousands — of Democrats\", and contrasted the broad appeal of true viral videos with the \"Conservative Internet viral\" nature of the WalkAway video. ThinkProgress characterized the campaign as \"a grifting operation,\" noting efforts by the organizers to sell dinner packages priced in the hundreds of dollars to march attendees.\n\nSlate journalist Mark Joseph Stern accused Straka of presenting photos, supposedly of people who had left the Democratic Party, which were actually royalty-free stock images from Shutterstock. Straka has denied that any such material originated from the WalkAway campaign.\nThe campaign's founder Brandon Straka has been profiled on news sites including Heavy.com, Yahoo and Epoch Times. He is gay. He grew up in Nebraska and now lives in New York City. \n\nIn an interview with I24NEWS (United States), Straka claimed not to identify with any political label other than \"ex-liberal\", however his Twitter biography was later updated to include \"Conservative\" and \"on a mission to #RedPill humanity\", a slogan associated with the alt-right.\n\nIn July 2018 Straka claimed to have been denied service at a camera store by a staff member who recognised him from Tucker Carlson's show on Fox News.\n\nIn September 2018 he claimed to have been suspended for 30 days from Facebook for posting a link to the InfoWars website run by the banned conspiracy theorist Alex Jones on whose radio show he was scheduled to appear.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "16711555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16711555", "title": "Water Resources Development Act of 1974", "text": "Water Resources Development Act of 1974\n\nThe Water Resource Development Act of 1974, is part of enacted on March 7, 1974, enacted by Congress, which also included the Streambank Erosion Control Evaluation and Demonstration Act and the River Basin Monetary Authorization Act.\n\nWRDA 1974 amended Section 208 of the Flood Control Act of 1954 , amended Section 205 of the Flood Control Act of 1948 , and made changes in the scope of authority for reservoir projects, and authorized $94,000,000 for the Columbia River Basin comprehensive plan of development. \n\nIt authorized the Secretary of the Army, acting through the Corps of Engineers, to undertake the design, construction, repair, improvement, and modification of specified public works on rivers and harbors for navigation, flood control and other enumerated purposes. Authorizes appropriations to carry out such projects. \n\nIt also directed the Secretary of the Army to conduct navigational and flood-control projects on specified public works and authorized appropriations to carry out such projects. \n\nLOCAL COOPERATION, STUDY; REPORT TO CONGRESS Pub. L. 93-251, title I, Sec. 24, Mar. 7, 1974, 88 Stat. 20, provided that the Secretary of the Army make a study of the items of local cooperation involving hold and save harmless provisions which have been required for water resource development projects under his jurisdiction and report on such study to Congress not later than June 30, 1975.\n\nLAND AND WATER USE, STUDY; REPORT TO CONGRESS Pub. L. 93-251, title I, Sec. 25, Mar. 7, 1974, 88 Stat. 20, provided that the Secretary of the Army conduct a study on land use practices and recreational uses at water resource development projects under his jurisdiction and report on such study to Congress not later than June 30, 1975.\n\nNATIONAL STREAMBANK EROSION PREVENTION AND CONTROL DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM Pub. L. 93-251, title I, Sec. 32, Mar. 7, 1974, 88 Stat. 21, as amended by Pub. L. 94-587, Sec. 155, 161, Oct. 22, 1976, 90 Stat. 2932, 2933, known as the \"Streambank Erosion Control Evaluation and Demonstration Act of 1974\", directed the Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers, to establish and conduct for a period of five fiscal years a national streambank erosion prevention and control demonstration program, to consist of an evaluation of the extent of streambank erosion on navigable rivers and their tributaries; development of new methods and techniques for bank protection, research on soil stability, and identification of the causes of erosion; a report to the Congress on the results of such studies and the recommendations of the Secretary of the Army on means for the prevention and correction of streambank erosion; and demonstration projects, including bank protection works. The final report to the Congress was to be made by Secretary of the Army no later than Dec. 31, 1981.\n\nNATIONAL SHORELINE EROSION CONTROL DEVELOPMENT AND DEMONSTRATION PROGRAM Pub. L. 93-251, title I, Sec. 54, Mar. 7, 1974, 88 Stat. 26, known as the \"Shoreline Erosion Control Demonstration Act of 1974\", directed the Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers, to establish and conduct for a period of five fiscal years a national shoreline erosion control development and demonstration program, to consist of planning, constructing, operating, evaluating, and demonstrating prototype shoreline erosion control devices, both engineered and vegetative, and to be carried out in cooperation with the Secretary of Agriculture, particularly with respect to vegetative means of preventing and controlling shoreline erosion, and in cooperation with Federal, State, and local agencies, private organizations, and the Shoreline Erosion Advisory Panel established pursuant to section 54(d) of Pub. L. 93-251. The Panel was to expire ninety days after termination of the five-year program. The Secretary of the Army was to submit to Congress a final report, sixty days after the fifth fiscal year of funding, such report to include a comprehensive evaluation of the national shoreline erosion control development and demonstration program. TECHNICAL AND ENGINEERING ASSISTANCE FOR NON-DEVELOPMENT OF EROSION PREVENTION METHODS Pub. L. 93-251, title I, Sec. 55, Mar. 7, 1974, 88 Stat. 28, provided that: \"The Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers, is authorized to provide technical and engineering assistance to non-Federal public interests in developing structural and non-structural methods of preventing damages attributable to shore and streambank erosion.\" VISITOR PROTECTION SERVICES, STUDY; REPORT TO CONGRESS Pub. L. 93-251, title I, Sec. 75, Mar. 7, 1974, 88 Stat. 32, directed Secretary of the Army to conduct a study on need for and means of providing visitor protection services at water resource development projects under jurisdiction of Department of the Army and report on such study to Congress not later than Dec. 31, 1974.\n\nAuthorized and directed the Secretary of the Army, acting through the Chief of Engineers, to establish and conduct for a period of five fiscal years a national streambank erosion prevention and control demonstration program. It provided that the program shall consist of: (1) an evaluation of the extent of streambank erosion on navigable rivers and their tributaries; (2) development of new methods and techniques for bank protection, research on soil stability, and identification of the causes of erosion; (3) a report to the Congress on the results of such studies and the recommendations of the Secretary of the Army on means for the prevention and correction of streambank erosion; and (4) demonstration projects, including bank protection works. \n\nIt also required that demonstration projects authorized by this section shall be undertaken on streams selected to reflect a variety of geographical and environmental conditions, including streams with naturally occurring erosion problems and streams with erosion caused or increased by manmade structures or activities. \n\nProvides for the establishment of a Shoreline Erosion Advisory Panel. Sets forth the duties of such Panel. Authorized an appropriation of $8,000,000 for construction of such projects. \n\nAuthorized specified amounts to be appropriated for the prosecution of development plans on enumerated river basins. States that such sums shall not exceed $764,000,000. Among those projects was the Columbia River Basin comprehensive plan of development, which was authorized $94,000,000.\n\n"}
{"id": "16980306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16980306", "title": "Water Resources Development Act of 1988", "text": "Water Resources Development Act of 1988\n\nWater Resources Development Act of 1988 (WRDA 1988), , is a public law passed by Congress on November 17, 1988 concerning water resources in the United States in the areas of flood control, navigation, dredging, environment, recreation, water supply, beach nourishment and erosion. \n\nMany of the provisions of the act are administered by the Secretary of the Army through the United States Army Corps of Engineers.\n\nWRDA 1988 authorized specified public works projects at the following locations: (1) flood control, Lower Mission Creek, Santa Barbara, California; (2) navigation, Ft. Pierce Harbor, Florida; (3) beach erosion control, Nassau County (Amelia Island), Florida; (4) navigation, Port Sutton Channel, Florida; (5) flood control, Chicagoland Underflow Plan, Illinois; (6) navigation, Lower Ohio River, Illinois and Kentucky; (7) flood control, Hazard, Kentucky; (8) navigation, Wolf and Jordan Rivers and Bayou Portage, Mississippi; (9) flood control, Truckee Meadows, Nevada; (10) flood control, Scioto River, West Columbus, Ohio; (11) navigation, Delaware River, Philadelphia to Wilmington, Pennsylvania and Delaware; (12) flood control, Cypress Creek, Texas; (13) flood control Falfurrias, Texas; (14) navigation, Guadalupe River to Victoria, Texas; (15) flood control, McGrath Creek, Wichita Falls, Texas; and (16) environmental enhancement, Mississippi and Louisiana Estuarine Areas. \n\nDirected measures to alleviate bank erosion and related problems associated with reservoir releases along the Missouri River between Fort Peck Dam, Montana, and Gavins Point Dam, South Dakota and Nebraska. Required the cost of such measures to be apportioned among project purposes as a joint-use operation and maintenance expense. Permits the Secretary to acquire interests in affected areas from willing sellers. \n\nIt amended the Water Resources Development Act of 1986 (WRDA 1986) to extend its cost sharing and cost ceiling provisions to all water resources projects enacted after the date of enactment of such Act. It also amended WRDA 1986 to require that the Federal share of the cost of the project for Indiana shoreline erosion be determined in accordance with title I of such Act. It also amended WRDA 1986 to provide that the flood control project for Root River Basin, Minnesota does not affect the authority of the Secretary to carry out a small project under the Flood Control Act of 1948. \n\nIt required the Soil Conservation Service to cooperate in the Beaver Lake Water quality project in Arkansas. Directed use of available funds to continue planning and design for such project, including plans for individual parcels of land within the drainage basis which contribute to water quality degradation and impairment of water supply uses at Beaver Lake. \n\nAmended WRDA 1986 to provide for crediting utility relocation costs of harbor construction borne by non-Federal interests toward the additional ten percent payment they are assessed for the cost of general navigation features of a project over 30 years. \n\nAmended WRDA 1986 to deauthorize the water resources projects at: (1) Rockland Lake, Texas; (2) White River, Batesville, Arkansas; (3) Algoma, Wisconsin (outer harbor); and (4) the Chicago River Turning Basin, Chicago Harbor, Illinois. \n\nAmended WRDA 1986 to extend from two years to five years the authority of the Secretary to carry out a demonstration program to modify water projects to improve the environment. \n\nIt modified the project for flood control, West Memphis and vicinity, Arkansas, to provide that non-Federal cooperation for such project may be provided by private individuals, private organizations, levee districts, drainage districts, or any unit of a State, country, or local government. \n\nModified the project for flood control at Redwood River, Marshall, Minnesota, to authorize construction of the project in accordance with a specified memorandum and at increased costs. \n\nModified the flood control project, Roseau River, Minnesota, to direct construction of a flood control levee near Duxby, Minnesota. \n\nAuthorized services to the non-Federal project sponsor in the design and the construction of upstream and downstream non-Federal extensions to the Federal project for flood control, Brush Creek and Tributaries, Missouri and Kansas if the non-Federal sponsor provides funds, in advance, to cover all costs of such services. Provides that such extensions shall not be considered part of the Federal project. \n\nModified the project for Libby Dam, Lake Koocanusa Reservoir, Montana, to authorize alleviation of the low water impact on existing facilities at such project and to provide additional planned public recreation sites along the reservoir. Directed protection of Indian archaeological sites at such project. Required coordination with the Kootenai Tribes in protecting such sites and facilitating curation. \n\nModified the project for flood control, Wyoming Valley, Pennsylvania, to authorize construction of an inflatable dam on the Susquehanna River in the Wilkes Barre area, Pennsylvania. \n\nModified the project for Wynoochee Lake, Wynoochee River, Washington, authorized under the Flood Control Act of 1962, to permit the city of Aberdeen, Washington, to operate, maintain, repair, and rehabilitate such project after September 30, 1988. Sets forth terms and conditions and other administrative provisions if the Secretary grants the city permission to proceed. \n\nRequired an opportunity for public review and comment before any changes are made in the operation of any reservoir which will result in or require a reallocation of storage space in such reservoir or will significantly affect any project purpose. \n\nReauthorized the flood control project at Lakeport Lake, California. \n\nAmended the Flood Control Act of 1968 to change the reimbursement limitation per project to $3,000,000 or one percent to the total project cost, whichever, is greater, except that the amount of actual Federal reimbursement, including reductions in contributions, may not exceed $5,000,000 in any fiscal year. \n\nAuthorized, in cooperation with other Federal agencies and the Susquehanna River Basin Commission, to design and implement a comprehensive flood warning and response system to serve communities and flood prone areas along the Juniata River and tributaries in Pennsylvania to demonstrate the effectiveness of such systems and to evaluate their costs. Authorized appropriations for such project. \n\nAuthorized construction of the breakwaters to a greater height at the project at King Harbor, Redondo Beach, California, if recommended in a report of the Chief of Engineers. \n\nModified the navigation project for Los Angeles and Long Beach Harbors, San Pedro Bay, California, to provide that if non-Federal interests carry out any work associated with such project which is later recommended by the Chief of Engineers and approved by the Secretary, the Secretary may reimburse such non-Federal interests an amount equal to the Federal share of the costs, without interest. \n\nModified the navigation project at Annapolis Harbor, Maryland, to realign the channel in such project to promote more efficient mooring operations. \n\nAuthorized paying for the remaining cost for the navigation project for Deal Island, Maryland (Lower Thorofare). \n\nModified the navigation project at Gulfport Harbor, Mississippi, to alter the methods by which the Secretary, during construction of the project, may carry out a demonstration program to evaluate the costs and benefits of thin layer disposal in the Mississippi Sount of dredged material. Directed, during construction of the project, a demonstration program to evaluate the costs and benefits of thin layer disposal in the Mississippi Sound of dredged material from construction harbor improvements and to determine whether there are unacceptable adverse effects from such disposal. Required a report to the Congress and the Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) within one year of completion of the demonstration program. Provides for the EPA to approve or disapprove the report. Required a study team to assist in planning, carrying out, monitoring, and reporting on the program. \n\nIncreased the ceiling costs for the navigation project for the Blair and Sitcum Waterways, Washington. \n\nDirected the study and report on cost recovery options and alternative methods of financing navigational improvements on the Great Lakes connecting channels and Saint Lawrence Seaway, including modernization of the Eisenhower and Snell Locks of the Saint Lawrence Seaway. \n\nAuthorized emergency repairs as necessary to preserve the existing dike at the Small Boat Harbor, Buffalo Harbor, New York, at a specified cost. \n\nDirected maintenance of water levels in the Mississippi River headwaters reservoirs at specified limits. \n\nAmended the Water Resources Development Act of 1986 to declare certain portions of the Delaware River in Philadelphia County, Pennsylvania, as nonnavigable. \n\nDeclared as nonnavigable certain portions of Coney Island Creek and Gravesend Bay, New York, and specified bodies of water in Ridgefield, New Jersey, as nonnavigable. \n\nDeclared that the following navigation projects shall remain authorized after December 31, 1989: (1) Monterey Harbor, California; (2) the north branch of the Chicago River, Illinois; (3) certain elements of the Missouri River Basin project; and (4) James River, Virginia.\n\nDirected maintenance dredging of the Federal project at the mouth of the Los Angeles River, California, to an authorized depth to maintain the flood control basin and navigation safety. \n\nAuthorized dredging of the Hearding Island Inlet, Duluth Harbor, Minnesota, to increase water circulation and reduce stagnant water conditions. \n\nAmended the Rivers and Harbors Act of 1970 to authorize continued deposition of dredged materials into a contained spoil disposal facility in the Great Lakes until such facility is no longer needed or that it is completely full. Required a study and monitoring program to determine whether toxic pollutants are present in such facilities and to determine the concentration levels of such pollutants. Required an inspection and monitoring program to determine whether toxic pollutants are leaking from such facilities. \n\nRequired the Environmental Protection Agency to submit to specified congressional committees the plan for alternative dredge disposal sites to the Mud Dump near Sandy Hook, New Jersey, within 120 days after the date of enactment of this Act. \n\nAmended the Water Resources Development Act of 1974 to revise the project cost ceiling for the New York Harbor drift removal project. \n\nModified the demonstration project at Sunset Harbor, California, to wetland restoration as a project purpose. \n\nModified the project for mitigation of fish and wildlife losses at Stumpy Lake, Louisiana, to: (1) include design and construction of such structural and remedial measures as necessary to control erosion and protect certain valuable environmental resources; and (2) authorize the Secretary to spend certain funds in participation with Louisiana on design, construction, and purchase of necessary lands and rights-of-way. \n\nDirected proceeding with work on the Kissimmee River demonstration project, Florida. \n\nAuthorized a simulation model of the central and southern Florida hydrologic ecosystem for use in predicting the effects of proposed modifications to the ecosystem. \n\nModified the project for beach erosion control for Sandy Hook to Barnegat Inlet, New Jersey, to require that the Sandy Hook reach be constructed in accordance with a specified draft general design memorandum, and that periodic beach nourishment over the project life be conducted. \n\nDirected the Interior to study and report on modifying the operation of the Bluestone Lake project, West Virginia, to facilitate the protection and enhancement of biological resources and recreational use of waters downstream from the project. \n\nDirected, before issuing a permit for a proposed municipal landfill in the vicinity of Bartlett, Illinois, a study and report to the Congress on the impact of such landfill on the Newark Valley Aquifer and on the ability of water from the aquifer to dilute for purposes of drinking water supply naturally occurring radium in groundwater. \n\nRequired the President, in submitting the FY 1990 budget, to include a schedule for completing the feasibility study on Northern California Streams, American River Watershed, as expeditiously as practicable and an estimate of the resources required to meet such schedule. \n\nDirected, in cooperation with Environmental Protection Agency, a study of the water quality effects of hydroelectric facilities owned and operated by the Corps of Engineers. \n\nDirected a study of the need for an internal drainage system in the Frog Pond agricultural area of Dade County, Florida. \n\nDirected the following projects enhance recreation: (1) Beechfork Lake, West Virginia; (2) Bluestone Lake, West Virginia; (3) East Lynn Lake, West Virginia; (4) Francis E. Walter Dam, Pennsylvania; (5) Jennings Randolph Lake, Maryland and West Virginia; (6) R.D. Bailey Lake, West Virginia; (7) Savage River Dam, Maryland; (8) Youghiogheny River Lake, Pennsylvania and Maryland; (9) Summersville Lake, West Virginia; (1) Sutton Lake, West Virginia; and (11) Stonewall Jackson Lake, West Virginia. \n\nDirected restoration of recreational uses established prior to May 1, 1988, or provide comparable recreational uses at the South Pier to Charlevoix Harbor project, Charlevoix, Michigan, in order to mitigate any adverse impact on recreational uses resulting from reconstruction of the South Pier. \n\nDirected a periodic review of the water supply problems related to drought which may be experienced at the Bayou Lafourche water supply reservoir in Louisiana, and to respond as appropriate. \n\nAmended the Water Resources Development Act of 1976 to require accommodation of the schedule of any State that requests the placement of beach quality sand. \n\nDirected repairs as required to restore a groin of the Ventura to Pierpont Beach erosion control project to its original configuration.\n\nRequired the Secretary, upon the request of a non-Federal sponsor of a water resources development project, to provide such sponsor with periodic statements of project expenditures. \n\nRequired projects for hurricane or storm damage reduction to comply with applicable flood plain requirements. \n\nAllows a Federal Project Repayment District to use any cost-recovery approach that is consistent with State law to satisfy cost-recovery requirements. (Currently, such districts are restricted to cost-recovery through property transfer fees.) \n\nDirected the Comptroller General to review the civil works program of the Corps of Engineers and report to the Congress. \n\nAuthorized appropriations for the Des Plaines River Wetlands demonstration project. \n\nDirected the Secretary to include in the feasibility report for the Coyote and Berryessa Creeks, California, project recommendations for reimbursement to local interests for work undertaken by them which is integral to the project. \n\nAuthorized conveying specified acreage to the City of South El Monte, California. Authorized, in consideration for such conveyance, acceptance of real property in the Los Angeles area or cash, or both. \n\nAuthorized conveying specified land to Illinois in the city of Ottawa. \n\nAuthorized exchange of certain lands in Whitman County, Washington, for wildlife mitigation purposes. \n\nProhibits the Secretary from conveying title to all or any part of the Lesage/Greenbottom Swamp to the State of West Virginia. \n\nAuthorized appropriations to establish a Technical Resource Service for the Red River Basin in Minnesota and North Dakota, for purpose of providing technical services for the development and implementation of State and local water and related land resources initiatives. \n\nAmended the Supplemental Appropriations Act of 1984 to extend the authorization of the modified water delivery schedule for the Everglades National Park from January 1, 1989, until January 1, 1992. \n\nMade the following name designations: (1) the Ventura Marina, located in Ventura County, California, as the Ventura Harbor; (2) the harbor on the Mississippi River at Hickman, Kentucky, as the Elvis Stahr Harbor, Port of Hickman; and (3) the boat ramp to be constructed on the Mississippi River in Lauderdale County, Tennessee, as the Ed Jones Boat Ramp.\n\nDirected a study of the need to modernize and upgrade the federally owned and operated hydroelectric power system and report to the Congress with recommendations. \n\nAuthorized the Secretary to pay tuition expenses of English-taught primary and secondary education in Puerto Rico for the children of any Federal employee when such expenses are incurred after the date of enactment of this Act and while the employee is temporarily residing and employed in Puerto Rico for the construction of the Portuguese and Bucana Rivers, Puerto Rico, project. \n\nRequired the Secretary, when feasible, to promote long- and short-term cost savings, increased efficiency, reliability, safety, and improved environmental results through the use of innovative technology in water resources development projects. Required the Secretary to report to the Congress within two years of enactment of this Act on the use of such technologies. \n\nAuthorized a demonstration program for a two-year period to provide technical assistance, on a nonexclusive basis, to any U.S. firm which is competing for, or has been awarded, a contract for the planning, design, or construction of a project outside the United States. Required the firm to: (1) provide funds in advance, to cover the costs of such assistance; (2) certify that such assistance is not otherwise available; and (3) agree to hold and save the United States free from damages due to the planning, design, construction, operation, or maintenance of the project. Sets forth the authority of the Secretary with respect to an invention made by a Federal employee while providing such assistance. Required the firm to protect any confidential information which may be provided. Required the Secretary to report to the Congress on the results of the demonstration program. \n\nAuthorized the Secretary, in order to improve the state of engineering and construction in the United States and consistent with the civil works mission of the Army Corps of Engineers, to undertake, on a cost-shared basis, collaborative research and development with non-Federal entities. Authorized appropriations. \n\nProvided for an agreement with a private person for the removal of an abandoned vessel from the waters off Mona Island, Puerto Rico. \n\nAuthorized a new division laboratory for the United States Army Engineer Division, Ohio River. \n\nAuthorized a water resources management and planning service for the Hudson River Basin in New York and New Jersey. Authorized appropriations. \n\nAmended the Energy and Water Development Appropriation Act of 1988 to correct the description of the portion of the Hudson River, New York, that is not a part of the federally authorized Channel Deepening Project. \n\n"}
{"id": "29098205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29098205", "title": "Women Employed", "text": "Women Employed\n\nWomen Employed is a nonprofit advocacy organization based in Chicago, Illinois. Founded in 1973, Women Employed's mission is to improve women's economic status and remove barriers to economic equity. They promote fair workplace practices, increase access to training and education, and provide women with tools and information to move into careers paying family-supporting wages.\n\nIn February 1973, a small group of Chicago women founded Women Employed (WE), through an initiative of the Loop YWCA. Organizers intended to mobilize networks of female workers around the common issues that affect their lives.\n\nWomen Employed's first major public event, attended by over 200 women, was a meeting of 26 of Chicago's leading corporations to discuss fair employment policies for women. In its first year, WE published \"Working Women in the Loop – Underpaid, Undervalued\", an investigation that used 1970 U.S. Census data on wages and employment patterns to expose substantial inequalities between women and men. The study found that women made up 45% of downtown Chicago's labor force, yet earned only 25% of wages.\n\nIn the 1970s, Women Employed worked for economic equality alongside organizations in Chicago like the Coalition of Labor Union Women. During that time, Women Employed fought hiring and job discrimination for non-union women in the city. By organizing public and legal actions, WE influenced workplace practices by affecting the public's attitude toward equality for women. In 1977, WE led a series of public actions against the firing of Iris Rivera, a Chicago legal secretary who lost her job because she refused to make coffee for her boss. WE eventually got Rivera her job back.\n\nIn 1989, Women Employed helped women and minority employees of the Harris Trust and Savings Bank win $15 million in back pay, a record settlement for sexual and racial discrimination. Women Employed filed a complaint with the Federal Government against Harris in 1974 on the basis of Executive Order 11246. Prior to this case, companies were never forced to make payments surpassing $10 million in back wages for sex or racial discrimination cases. WE also worked with a national coalition to win passage of the federal Family and Medical Leave Act in 1993, which ensures employees up to 12 weeks of leave for medical purposes.\n\nIn 2003, WE helped pass the Illinois Equal Pay Act, which guarantees protection of equal pay for equal work to hundreds of thousands of workers not covered under the federal law. In 2006, WE helped win $34.4 million in funding for the Monetary Award Program (MAP) grant, making college more accessible to more than 150,000 low-income students in Illinois.\n\nWE was part of a national coalition that advocated for the Lilly Ledbetter Fair Pay Act, the first women's rights legislation passed during the Obama administration. This law, signed in early 2009, increases employees' ability to fight pay discrimination.\n\nIn 2010, the US Department of Labor selected WE's Career Coach as a Top 10 Career Exploration Tool. Career Coach enables low-income, low-literacy adults to explore career options, define career goals, and identify local education and training resources.\n\nDespite many improvements in women's economic status over the past three decades, employment discrimination and unfairness in the workplace are still a fact of life for many women. On average, women make only 80 cents for every dollar a man makes, and can lose an immense amount of wages over a lifetime due to the wage gap which persists despite education level. A disproportionate number of women are clustered in low-paying, part-time jobs, often without benefits or dependable hours.\n\nWomen Employed promotes equal pay, fair workplace practices, and work-family balance. Women Employed also advocates for stronger anti-discrimination laws and equal employment opportunities in workplaces. As the leader of the Earned Sick Time Chicago Coalition, Women Employed played a leadership role in advocating for paid sick time ordinances in Chicago and Cook County. Those ordinances both passed in 2016, and went into effect on July 1, 2017. As the leader of the Illinois Paid Leave Coalition, Women Employed is working to pass legislation that would guarantee all working people in the state of Illinois access to paid sick leave which they could take when they are sick, or to care for sick family members.\n\nNearly 15 million women in the U.S. earn too little to cover basic living expenses for their families, despite working in full-time, year-round jobs. Education is one proven strategy for raising incomes. A woman with a two-year associate degree earns 28 percent more and a woman with a bachelor's degree earns 75 percent more than a woman with only a high school education.\n\nWomen Employed advocates to ensure high-quality postsecondary education programs and to increase access to supports that help women succeed in education and training.\n\n"}
