{"id": "7773517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7773517", "title": "Administrative divisions of Morocco", "text": "Administrative divisions of Morocco\n\nIn Morocco, the 75 second-level administrative subdivisions are 13 prefectures and 62 provinces. They are subdivisions of the 12 regions of Morocco. Each prefecture or province is subdivided into arrondissements (only in prefectures of some metropolitan areas), municipalities (\"communes\", sing. \"commune\") or urban municipalities (\"communes urbaines\", sing. \"commune urbaine\") in other urban areas, and districts (\"cercles\", sing. \"cercle\") in rural areas. The districts are subdivided into rural municipalities (\"communes rurales\", sing. \"commune rural\"). One prefecture (Casablanca) is also subdivided into \"préfectures d'arrondissements\" (sing. \"préfecture d'arrondissements\"), similar to districts (\"cercles\") except they are grouping a few arrondissements instead of rural municipalities.\n\nNote: The arrondissements and (urban) municipalities should probably be thought of as fourth-level subdivisions, on the same level as the rural municipalities, but they are not part of any district.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nMost of Western Sahara is administered \"de facto\" by Morocco (where the area is informally named the \"Southern Provinces\" by the Moroccan government and media); the rest is administered by the Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic.\n\nThe United Nations considers the territory to be disputed, as it was not legally transferred by Spain when it abandoned its former colony in 1975, and several states (notably members of the African Union) either recognize the SADR as the sole legitimate government of Western Sahara, or consider that the status of the region (either as an independent state, or as part of Morocco, or as part of Mauritania that initially claimed a part of it) has still not been autodetermined by the local population prior to its annexation. The United Nations has no legal instruments confirming the claims on the region made by the governments of Morocco or the self-proclaimed SADR, and in international treaties it is still a formal part of Spain that remains to be properly decolonized, even though Spain and Mauritania no longer claim any part of it.\n\nSince the annexation, the situation is worsened by the fact that most of the historic Western Saharan population has fled either to the remaining \"free zone\" (now isolated by the Moroccan militarized berm), or to refugee camps in neighbouring countries (notably Algeria), due to lack of resources in the \"free zone\". The remaining native Western Saharan population now lives as a minority among the new Moroccan occupants. The absence of a legal government with a permanent administration in the \"free zone\" has also introduced a threat to the security of the surrounding countries in the Saharan and Sahel regions, including Morocco itself.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn Morocco, a wilaya is an administrative division created since 1981 that \"brings together many provinces or prefectures or both at the same time, and is intended to endow big urban units such as Casablanca with an administrative organization capable of meeting the needs that emerge from these expanding cities and their growing populations.\" Therefore, strictly speaking, the level of wilayas are between the regions and prefectures/provinces (although wilayas only cover urban areas). However, they are often used synonymous with regions or prefectures/provinces in common usage.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37109629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37109629", "title": "Agricultural road", "text": "Agricultural road\n\nAn agricultural road or farm track is a service road that serves predominantly agricultural or forestry purposes and has only local significance. Agricultural roads are typically unpaved dirt roads or covered with gravel, but in some cases asphalt roads are agricultural roads.\n\nIn the United States, a \"farm-to-market road\" or \"ranch-to-market road\" (sometimes \"farm road\" or \"ranch road\" for short) is a state road or county road that connects rural or agricultural areas to market towns.\n\n"}
{"id": "45452145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45452145", "title": "Angola Basin", "text": "Angola Basin\n\nThe Angola Basin is located along the West African South Atlantic Margin which extends from Cameroon to Angola. \nIt is characterized as a passive margin that began spreading in the south and then continued upwards throughout the basin.\nThis basin formed during the initial breakup of the supercontinent Pangaea during the early Cretaceous, creating the Atlantic Ocean and causing the formation of the Angola, Cape, and Argentine basins. \nIt is often separated into two units: the Lower Congo Basin, which lies in the northern region and the Kwanza Basin which is in the southern part of the Angola margin.\nThe Angola Basin is famous for its \"Aptian Salt Basins,\" a thick layer of evaporites that has influenced topography of the basin since its deposition and acts as an important petroleum reservoir.\n\nTypically divergent boundaries are described as having landward extension, seaward contraction, and translation, however the order of events in this area are difficult to distinguish in such a clear-cut manner.\nThis is due to the fact that areas of the basin are superimposed upon one another, which some interpret to show pulses of deformation and uplift that occur at irregular times and places.\n\nThe Angola Basin is also highly characterized by gravity spreading where energy is released when the center of gravity lowers as crustal material thins.\nThis spreading mechanism requires at least some deformation as opposed to the breakup of rigid blocks.\nGravity spreading is also temporally linked to sediment deposition, so spreading rates should increase during times of high sediment deposition and decrease or halt when there is little to no sediment deposition.\nAs a result, any accommodation space created as the margin continues to spread should be filled with sediments.\n\nThe evaporite layer present within the basin is responsible for many topographic features that developed since its deposition as salt movement deforms the surrounding bedrock.\nThe driving force behind salt tectonics is thought to be extension governed by gravity.\nAs gravity spreading acts upon the salt layers it causes upslope extension and downslope contraction, which also explains many of the folds and features of the basin.\nSeismic profiles taken from offshore Angola show many different salt structures such as diapirs, clines, turtle features, and salt walls that show several deformation phases as the salt squeezes upwards when it is deposited upon.\nMany of the salt forms are associated with early Cretaceous folding and uplift as well as lateral shortening.\nOne of the signature features in the Angola Basin are deep troughs that developed as salt dissolved, creating space for sediment fill.\nThe troughs range from the beginning of the Eocene to the end of the Miocene depending on the time of dissolution.\n\nPost-rift deformation is predominantly caused by raft tectonics, a term that is associated with salt detachment when normal fault blocks are widely separated so that the footwall and hanging wall are not in contact, creating large grabens. \nIt is considered one of the most extreme forms of extension, and it highly influenced by gravity spreading and increased sediment loading, major factors which act upon the Angola Basin.\nIn the basin this tectonic mechanism is attributed to three periods of high strain that occurred at approximately 96, 28, and 10 million years ago, and the most recent high strain activity is still ongoing.\nThese high strain rates lasted anywhere from 15 to 36 million years while rafting itself lasted from 7-10 million years.\n\nThe formation of the Angola Basin can be divided into three phases of rifting which took place from approximately 145-113 million years ago from the Jurassic to the Cretaceous.\nInitial rifting is defined by widespread crustal thinning, normal faulting, and the subsidence of grabens that formed in the upper crust.\nThis was followed by a second rifting phase which was dominated by lithospheric thinning.\nThe final phase of rifting led to the breakup of the lithosphere, initiated seafloor spreading that still acts today, and resulted in the development of oceanic crust.\n\nAfter the rifting, salt deposited upon the preexisting bedrock.\nThe large amounts of salt in most of the basin make it difficult to determine structures and sedimentary deposits beneath it since seismic does not penetrate through it. \nThough the salt layer creates some ambiguity most agree that the bedrock is composed of volcanic basalts which are likely a result of rifting or Precambrian crystalline rock. \nThere are two main theories for the environment which called for salt deposition. \nThe first is that the environment was a shallow marine area which after anomalous subsidence events causes rapid salt accumulation. \nThe second hypothesis claims that salt filled a topographic depression much further below sea level.\nDespite which theory may be correct, it is generally agreed that the basin must have been very restricted from the ocean which allowed the evaporite deposits to be nearly three kilometers thick.\n\nAfter the salt layer was deposited it was covered by a carbonate layer approximately 112 million years ago. \nThe carbonate formation occurred due to large-scale anoxic events which created organic-rich shales.\nDuring this time the basin was hypersaline making it inhospitable for normal marine life, although there may have been a small but stable amount of input of terrestrial fresh water.\nThe source of this freshwater as well as clastic debris was likely from the Kouilou-Niari River which is located in present-day Congo.\nAs the rift continued to spread apart Pangaea into the South American and African continents, the Angola Basin opened up further, allowing for better ocean circulation which balanced out the extreme hypersaline conditions to allow for life to develop in the area.\nTowards the end of the Cretaceous the Congo River began to fill the basin with terrigenous sediments, characterized by many turbidite deposits which replaced most of the carbonate deposits.\n\nThe Congo River created a much larger impact upon the basin in the Oligocene.\nThe sedimentary fill from the Congo River created a large deep-sea fan where the river enters the ocean, and this fan is still one of the basin's most predominant features.\nThe Oligocene is also characterized by an erosional event that lasted 10-20 million years that is thought to be controlled by upheavals or depressions of crust over a broad area that are caused by mantle convection and hotsopt activity.\n\nFrom the beginning of the Quaternary to present day much of the sediment is influenced by the Walvis Ridge, a hotspot trail that extends several hundred kilometers off the coast of Africa into the Atlantic Ocean, in addition to the Congo River.\nDuring this time the carbonate compensation depth, the depth at which carbonates dissolve, is at a minimum depth of 5400 m, over 1000 meters more than the average depth.\nThis is due to the Walvis Ridge preventing cold Antarctic bottom waters from circulating the basin allowing for the sedimentation of carbonate materials, including microorganisms such as foraminifera and other calcareous microfossils.\nThe Angola Basin is currently well circulated by warm and cold surface currents and undercurrents and is mostly influenced by the Benguela Current, the Equatorial Countercurrents, and the Angola Current.\n\nThe Lower Congo Basin lies in the northern region of the Angola Basin and is largely identified by a sedimentary fan that is fueled by the Congo River and is part of the Ogooue Delta.\nWhile the fan is dated to the Oligocene, initial sediment deposition which the fan developed on began in the Cretaceous and contains some of the Aptain salt layer.\nThis fan is one of the largest marine fans in the world as it covers 300,000 square kilometers leading from the mouth of the river into the Atlantic Ocean.\nSince the fan is mainly composed of turbidite deposits composed for large amounts of sandstone and fine grained muds, it is likely an area that is currently generating hydrocarbons and probably has been for the past 30 million years.\nThis feature is highly dominated by gravity flows where sediment and fluid flow down slope due to gravity.\n\nThe Kwanza Basin lies in the lower region of the Angola Basin and can be divided into the inner and outer Kwanza Basins, with the inner basin lying closer to the continent of Africa and the outer basin surrounding the inner basin.\nBasement structures separate the inner and outer areas of the basin; these structures are named the Flamingo, Ametista, and Benguela Platforms which comprises the Atlantic hinge zone.\nThese are areas where the signature salt layer is very thin or absent from the stratigraphic record.\nThe basin's topographic features are mainly affected by salt tectonics, since the salt in most areas was originally over one kilometer thick.\nThere are two main types of salt structures found in the inner Kwanza Basin: narrow salt walls which developed from salt-cored folds, and broad salt walls that formed likely due to major uplift in the area.\nMany of the salt features dissolved over time which led to the development of sedimentary troughs in the Cenozoic, although fewer troughs did develop as a result of extension.\n\nThe basin houses economically important hydrocarbon reservoirs that serve as a source of petroleum.\nHydrocarbon generation in the Angola Basin is still an ongoing process that began in the late Cretaceous after the deposition of the thick salt beds.\nThe salt is an important feature in preserving hydrocarbons as it seals in the reservoir and prevents it from escaping into the open water.\nSuccessful hydrocarbon collection within the Angola margin is associated with pockmarks within the topography that are formed as gas or subsurface water travels upwards through the water column.\nIn December 2000 a research expedition collected gas hydrate specimens from one of the world's largest pockmarks located in the Congo-Angola Basin.\nThe depression was 800 meters in diameter and located 3160 meters below sea level and developed as a result of several smaller pockmarks collapsing into each other.\nThe majority of the hydrocarbons found were gas hydrates composed of 100% methane.\n"}
{"id": "18950961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18950961", "title": "Annexation", "text": "Annexation\n\nAnnexation (Latin \"ad\", to, and \"nexus\", joining) is the administrative action and concept in international law relating to the forcible acquisition of one state's territory by another state. It is generally held to be an illegal act. It is distinct from conquest, which refers to the acquisition of control over a territory involving a change of sovereignty, and differs from cession, in which territory is given or sold through treaty, since annexation is a unilateral act where territory is seized and held by one state. It usually follows military occupation of a territory.\n\nAnnexation can be legitimized via general recognition by international bodies (i.e. other countries and intergovernmental organisations).\n\nInternational law regarding the use of force by states has evolved significantly in the 20th century. Key agreements include the 1907 Porter Convention, the 1920 Covenant of the League of Nations and the 1928 Kellogg–Briand Pact, culminating in Article 2(4) of Chapter I of the United Nations Charter, which is in force today: \"All Members shall refrain in their international relations from the threat or use of force against the territorial integrity or political independence of any state, or in any other manner inconsistent with the Purposes of the United Nations\". Since the use of force against territorial integrity or political independence is illegal, the question as to whether title or sovereignty can be transferred in such a situation has been the subject of legal debate.\n\nIt is generally held that countries are under obligation to abide by the Stimson Doctrine that a state: \"cannot admit the legality of any situation de facto nor... recognize any treaty or agreement entered into between those Governments... not... recognize any situation, treaty or agreement which may be brought about by means contrary to the covenants and obligations of the Pact of Paris of August 27, 1928\".\n\nThese principles were reconfirmed by the 1970 Friendly Relations Declaration.\n\nDuring World War II, the use of annexation deprived whole populations of the safeguards provided by international laws governing military occupations.\n\nThe Fourth Geneva Convention (GCIV) of 1949 amplified the Hague Conventions of 1899 and 1907 with respect to the question of the protection of civilians.\n\nThe authors of the Fourth Geneva Convention made a point of giving the rules regarding inviolability of rights \"an absolute character\", thus making it much more difficult for a state to bypass international law through the use of annexation. GCIV , in the first paragraph in Section III: Occupied territories, restricted the effects of annexation on the rights of persons within those territories:\n\nIn 1954, the residents of Dadra and Nagar Haveli, a Portuguese enclave within India, ended Portuguese rule with the help of nationalist volunteers. From 1954 to 1961, the territory enjoyed \"de facto\" independence. In 1961, the territory was merged with India after its government signed an agreement with the Indian government.\n\nIn 1961, India and Portugal engaged in a brief military conflict over Portuguese-controlled Goa and Daman and Diu. India invaded and conquered the areas after 36 hours of fighting, ending 451 years of Portuguese colonial rule in India. The action was viewed in India as a liberation of historically Indian territory; in Portugal, however, the loss of both enclaves was seen as a national tragedy. A condemnation of the action by the United Nations Security Council (UNSC) was vetoed by the Soviet Union. Goa and Daman and Diu were incorporated into India.\n\nDuring the British colonial rule in India, Sikkim had an ambiguous status, as an Indian princely state or as an Indian protectorate. Prior to Indian independence, Jawaharlal Nehru, acting as the leader of Executive Council, agreed that Sikkim would not be treated as an Indian state. Between 1947 and 1950, Sikkim enjoyed \"de facto\" independence. However, the Indian independence spurred popular political movements in Sikkim and the ruler Chogyal came under pressure. He requested Indian help to quell the uprising, which was offered. Subsequently, in 1950, India signed a treaty with Sikkim bringing it under its suzerainty, and controlling its external affairs, defence, diplomacy and communications. A state council was established in 1955 to allow for constitutional government under the Sikkimese monarch. Meanwhile, trouble was brewing in the state after the Sikkim National Congress demanded fresh elections and greater representation for the Nepalese. In 1967 India and China went to war in Sikkim, Cho La incident where a Chinese occupation was attempted and repulsed. In 1973, riots in front of the palace led to a formal request for protection from India. The Chogyal was proving to be extremely unpopular with the people. In 1975, the \"Kazi\" (prime minister) appealed to the Indian Parliament for a change in Sikkim's status so that it could become a state of India. In April, the Indian Army moved into Sikkim, seizing the city of Gangtok and disarming the Palace Guards. A referendum was held in which 97.5% of the voting people (59% of the people entitled to vote) voted to join the Indian Union. A few weeks later, on May 16, 1975, Sikkim officially became the 22nd state of the Indian Union and the monarchy was abolished.\n\nOn 18 September 1955 at precisely 10:16 am, in what would be the final territorial expansion of the British Empire, Rockall was declared officially annexed by the British Crown when Lieutenant-Commander Desmond Scott RN, Sergeant Brian Peel RM, Corporal AA Fraser RM, and James Fisher (a civilian naturalist and former Royal Marine), were deposited on the island by a Royal Navy helicopter from (coincidentally named after the man who first charted the island). The team cemented in a brass plaque on Hall's Ledge and hoisted the Union Flag to stake the UK's claim. However, any effect of this annexation on valuable maritime rights claims under UNCLOS in the waters beyond 12 nautical miles from Rockall are neither claimed by Britain nor recognised by Denmark (for the Faroe Islands), Ireland or Iceland.\n\nFollowing a controversial plebiscite in 1969, West Papua or Western New Guinea was annexed by Indonesia. West Paupa is the western half of the island of New Guinea and smaller islands to its west. The separatist Free Papua Movement (OPM) has engaged in a small-scale yet bloody conflict with the Indonesian military since the 1960s.\n\nFollowing an Indonesian invasion in 1975, East Timor was annexed by Indonesia and was known as Timor Timur. It was regarded by Indonesia as the country's 27th province, but this was never recognised by the United Nations. The people of East Timor resisted Indonesian forces in a prolonged guerrilla campaign.\n\nFollowing a referendum held in 1999 under a UN-sponsored agreement between the two sides, the people of East Timor rejected the offer of autonomy within Indonesia. East Timor achieved independence in 2002 and is now officially known as Timor-Leste.\n\nIn 1975, and following the Madrid Accords between Morocco, Mauritania and Spain, the latter withdrew from the territory and ceded the administration to Morocco and Mauritania. This was challenged by an independentist movement, the Polisario Front that waged a guerrilla war against both Morocco and Mauritania. In 1979, and after a military putsch, Mauritania withdrew from the territory that left it controlled by Morocco. A United Nations peace process was initiated in 1991, but it has been stalled, and as of mid-2012, the UN is holding direct negotiations between Morocco and the Polisario front to reach a solution to the conflict. The Sahrawi Arab Democratic Republic is a partially recognized state that has claimed the entire region since 1975.\n\nThe part of former Mandatory Palestine occupied by Jordan during the 1948 Arab–Israeli War, which some Jews call \"Judea and Samaria\", was renamed \"the West Bank\". It was annexed to Jordan in 1950 at the request of a Palestinian delegation. It had been questioned, however, how representative that delegation was, and at the insistence of the Arab League, Jordan was considered a trustee only. Only the United Kingdom and Pakistan recognized the annexation by Jordan. It was not condemned by the UNSC and it remained under Jordanian rule until 1967 when it was occupied by Israel. Jordan did not officially relinquish its claim to rule the West Bank until 1988. Israel has not taken the step of annexing the territory (except for parts of it that was made part of the Jerusalem Municipality), rather, there were enacted a complex (and highly controversial) system of military government decrees in effect applying Israeli law in many spheres to Israeli settlements.\n\nDuring the 1967 Six-Day War, Israel occupied East Jerusalem, a part of the West Bank, from Jordan. On June 27, 1967, Israel unilaterally extended its law and jurisdiction to East Jerusalem and some of the surrounding area, incorporating about 70 square kilometers of territory into the Jerusalem Municipality. Although at the time Israel informed the United Nations that its measures constituted administrative and municipal integration rather than annexation, later rulings by the Israeli Supreme Court indicated that East Jerusalem had become part of Israel. In 1980, Israel passed the Jerusalem Law as part of its Basic Law, which declared Jerusalem the \"complete and united\" capital of Israel. In other words, Israel purported to annex East Jerusalem. The annexation was declared null and void by UNSC Resolutions 252, 267, 271, 298, 465, 476 and 478.\n\nJewish neighborhoods have since been built in East Jerusalem, and Israeli Jews have since also settled in Arab neighborhoods there, though some Jews may have returned from their 1948 expulsion after the Battle for Jerusalem.\nOnly Costa Rica recognized Israel's annexation of East Jerusalem, and those countries who maintained embassies in Israel did not move them to Jerusalem.\nThe United States Congress has passed the Jerusalem Embassy Act, which recognizes Jerusalem as the united capital of Israel and requires the relocation of the U.S. embassy there, but the bill has been waived by presidents Clinton, Bush, and Obama on national security grounds. President Trump has begun the controversial process of moving the United States embassy to Jerusalem, but has not recognized the annexation of East Jerusalem.\n\nIsrael occupied two-thirds of the Golan Heights from Syria during the 1967 Six-Day War, and subsequently built Jewish settlements in the area. In 1981, Israel passed the Golan Heights Law, which extended Israeli \"law, jurisdiction, and administration\" to the area, including the Shebaa farms area. This declaration was declared \"null and void and without international legal effect\" by UNSC Resolution 497. The only state that recognized the annexation is the Federated States of Micronesia.\n\nThe vast majority of Syrian Druze in Majdal Shams, the largest Syrian village in the Golan, have held onto their Syrian passports. When Israel annexed the Golan Heights in 1981, 95% of the Majdal Shams residents refused Israeli citizenship, and are still firmly of that opinion, in spite of the Syrian Civil War.\n\nOn 29 November 2012, the United Nations General Assembly reaffirmed it was \"[d]eeply concerned that Israel has not withdrawn from the Syrian Golan, which has been under occupation since 1967, contrary to the relevant Security Council and General Assembly resolutions,\" and \"[s]tress[ed] the illegality of the Israeli settlement construction and other activities in the occupied Syrian Golan since 1967.\"<ref name=\"UN Doc A/67/L.24\"></ref> The General Assembly then voted by majority, 110 in favour to 6 against (Canada, Israel, Marshall Islands, Federated States of Micronesia, Palau, United States), with 59 abstentions, to demand a full Israeli withdrawal from the Syrian Golan Heights.\n\nNorth Vietnam \"de facto\" annexed South Vietnam following the military defeat of the South Vietnamese army in April 1975. Communist regime of the Socialist Republic of Vietnam had officially reunified the country.\n\nAfter being allied with Iraq during the Iran–Iraq War (largely due to desiring Iraqi protection from Iran), Kuwait was invaded and annexed by Iraq (under Saddam Hussein) in August 1990. Hussein's primary justifications included a charge that Kuwaiti territory was in fact an Iraqi province, and that annexation was retaliation for \"economic warfare\" Kuwait had waged through slant drilling into Iraq's oil supplies. The monarchy was deposed after annexation, and an Iraqi governor installed.\n\nUnited States president George H. W. Bush ultimately condemned Iraq's actions, and moved to drive out Iraqi forces. Authorized by the UNSC, an American-led coalition of 34 nations fought the Gulf War to reinstate the Kuwaiti Emir. Iraq's invasion (and annexation) was deemed illegal and Kuwait remains an independent nation today.\n\nIn March 2014, Russia annexed most of the Crimean Peninsula, part of Ukraine, and administers the territory as two federal subjects — the Republic of Crimea and the federal city of Sevastopol. Russia rejects the view that this was an annexation and regard it as an accession to the Russian Federation of a state that had just declared independence from Ukraine following a referendum, and considers secession as a result of irredentism. A term often used in Russia to describe these events is \"re-unification\" (воссоединение) to highlight the fact that Crimea was part of Russian Empire and later Russian SSR.\n\nOne example of a claimed annexation after World War II is the Kingdom of Norway's southward expansion of the dependent territory Queen Maud Land. On most maps there had been an unclaimed area between Queen Maud Land's borders of 1939 and the South Pole until June 12, 2015 when Norway formally claimed to have annexed that area. The Antarctic Treaty, however, states: \"The treaty does not recognize, dispute, nor establish territorial sovereignty claims; no new claims shall be asserted while the treaty is in force\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2705680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2705680", "title": "Area code 441", "text": "Area code 441\n\nArea code 441 is the telephone area code for Bermuda. It was created by a split from the original area code 809 on October 1, 1995, although permissive dialing continued until September 30, 1996. When calling from countries and territories outside the North American Numbering Plan, the area code is prefixed by the international access code and the country code 1; for example from the United Kingdom, subscribers would dial 00 1 441.\n\nFrom 1995 to 1999, each of the groups of the various Caribbean and Atlantic islands using the North American Numbering Plan area codes, which had previously shared area code 809, was split off and given its own area code. 441 is among them. The 809 Area Code now exclusively serves the Dominican Republic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "156823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=156823", "title": "Baarle-Hertog", "text": "Baarle-Hertog\n\nBaarle-Hertog () also known as Baerle-Duc is a Flemish municipality of Belgium, much of which consists of a number of small Belgian exclaves in the Netherlands.\n\nWhile some of its territory consists of exclaves in the Dutch province of North Brabant, it is part of the Belgian province of Antwerp. On 1 January 2006 Baarle-Hertog had a population of 2,306. The total area is which gives a population density of 308 inhabitants per km² (798 inhabitants/sq mi).\n\nBaarle-Hertog is noted for its complicated borders with Baarle-Nassau, Netherlands. The complex border was created after the Treaty of Maastricht was signed between the Netherlands and Belgium in 1843. In total it consists of 24 separate parcels of land. The main division of Baarle-Hertog is Zondereigen (named after its main hamlet), located north of the Belgian town of Merksplas. In addition there are twenty Belgian exclaves in the Netherlands and three other sections on the Dutch-Belgian border. There are also seven Dutch exclaves within the Belgian exclaves (i.e., counter-exclaves). Six of these Dutch enclaves are located within the largest Belgian enclave, and a seventh in the second-largest Belgian enclave. An eighth Dutch exclave is located nearby Ginhoven.\n\nDuring World War I, this situation meant that the German army could not occupy these parts of Belgium without crossing the Netherlands, which the Dutch government did not allow. Thus, these pieces of Belgium became a place where refugees could safely stay. A clandestine radio transmitter was smuggled in and from there worked with the Belgian resistance. The Dutch government fenced off these areas and controlled access in or out of them, building a church and school for the Belgian people who were effectively stranded within the enclaves. This situation did not exist in World War II, as both countries were occupied by Germany.\n\nOutside of Belgium and the Netherlands, there is at least one other national counter-exclave (enclave enclosed within an enclave) at Nahwa, an enclave of the United Arab Emirates within an enclave of the Sultanate of Oman within the United Arab Emirates.\n\nSome houses in the town of Baarle-Hertog/Baarle-Nassau are divided between the two countries. At one time, according to Dutch laws restaurants had to close earlier. For some restaurants on the border, this simply meant that the customers had to move to a table on the Belgian side.\nThe border's complexity results from a number of equally complex medieval treaties, agreements, land-swaps and sales between the Lords of Breda and the Dukes of Brabant. Generally speaking, predominantly agricultural or built environments became constituents of Brabant and other parts devolved to Breda. These distributions were ratified and clarified as a part of the border settlements agreed under the Treaty of Maastricht in 1843.\n\nMany fireworks shops are found in Baarle-Hertog, owing to Belgian laws controlling the sale of fireworks that are more lenient than those in the Netherlands. Close to the end of the year many Dutch tourists come to Baarle-Hertog to buy fireworks to celebrate the New Year.\n\nTwo villages in the municipality, Zondereigen and Ginhoven, are located in the main territory of Belgium.\n\nThese are all part of Baarle-Nassau Commune.\nThese are all part of Baarle-Hertog Commune, and are surrounded by Baarle-Nassau Commune (Netherlands).\nBaarle-Hertog has two schools: De Vlinder and De Horizon.\n\nIt has a joint library with Baarle-Nassau with Belgian and Dutch staff.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33478328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33478328", "title": "Bablomekang", "text": "Bablomekang\n\nBablomekang is an island in the Rock Islands of Palau.\nIt was last inhabited 2004, when inhabitants decided to move due to floodings.\n"}
{"id": "540126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540126", "title": "Bora (wind)", "text": "Bora (wind)\n\nThe bora is a northern to north-eastern katabatic wind in the Adriatic Sea. Similar nomenclature is used for north-eastern winds in other littoral areas of eastern Mediterranean and Black Sea basins.\n\nIt is known in Greek as (\"mpóra\", pronounced \"bora\") and Italian as . In English, the name \"bora\" is used. The Serbo-Croatian name (бура) and Slovene are not etymologically related to \"bora\"; they derive from Common Slavic \"burja\" 'storm' (from the verb \"*burĭti\") and the meaning 'bora' developed later.\n\nThe same root as \"bora\" is found in the name of the Greek mythological figure of Boreas (Βορέας), the North Wind. Historical linguists speculate that the name may derive from a Proto-Indo-European root *\"gworh\"- meaning \"mountain\" and giving rise to Germanic \"burg\" and \"berg\". A similar pattern is seen in the cognate name of the \"buran\" winds of central Asia and the name \"purga\" of their Siberian subtype.\n\n The changeable bora can often be felt all over Montenegrin Littoral, Dalmatia, Istria, Rijeka, the Slovenian Littoral, Trieste, and the rest of the Adriatic east coast. It blows in gusts. The bora is most common during the winter. It blows hardest, as the meteorologist Baron Ferdinand von Wrangel explained it by extending Julius Hann's explanation of Alpine katabatic winds to the north Adriatic, when a polar high-pressure area sits over the snow-covered mountains of the interior plateau behind the Dinaric coastal mountain range and a calm low-pressure area lies further south over the warmer Adriatic. As the air grows even colder and thus denser at night, the bora increases. Its initial temperature is so low that even with the warming occasioned by its descent it reaches the lowlands as a cold wind. The wind takes two different traditional names in areas of Italy depending on associated meteorological conditions: the \"light bora\" () is a bora in the presence of clear skies, whereas clouds gathering on the hilltops and moving towards the seaside with rain or snow characterize the \"dark bora\" (\"bora scura\").\n\nThe area where some of the strongest bora winds occur is the Velebit mountain range in Croatia. This seaside mountain chain, spanning 145 kilometers, represents a huge weather and climatic divide between the sharp continental climate of the interior, characterized by significant day/night temperature differences throughout the year, and the Adriatic coast, with a Mediterranean climate. The bora occurs because these two divided masses tend to equalize. Sailing during the bora can be challenging and it requires caution, regarding readiness of both the boat and its crew. Short, high waves with white crests are its characteristics, making the navigation difficult. The small drops formed by the wind create a so-called \"sea smoke\" that reduces the visibility significantly. Experienced seamen have a proverb: \"When the bora sails, you don't!\" Sailing can be extremely dangerous for an unexperienced navigator in the Velebit channel because the wind can start suddenly on a clear and calm day and result in major problems, frequently also affecting road traffic. Near the towns of Senj, Stara Novalja, Karlobag and the southern portal of the Sveti Rok Tunnel in Croatia, it can reach speeds of up to 220 kilometers per hour. On 21 December 1998 the speed of a gust on the Maslenica Bridge (north of Zadar) was measured at a record speed of 248 kilometres per hour. During 22 to 25 December 2003 on A1 highway near Sveti Rok Tunnel a new record was measured at a speed of 304 kilometers per hour.\n\nIn February 2012, during the Eastern European Cold Wave, the shoreline in Senj froze and snow piled up after a 150 km/h bora plummeted the temperature to −14 °C, with waves of 7 metres. The bora ripped the trees from the soil and destroyed roofs of houses. On the island of Pag, the Bora threw fish out of the sea. In many Croatian coastal cities, fresh water froze inside the pipes.\n\nThe wind is also an integral feature of Slovenia's Vipava Valley and, to a lesser extent, the Karst Plateau (known as \"Carso\" in Italian), an area of limestone heights over the Gulf of Trieste stretching towards the Istrian peninsula. Because the region separates the lower Adriatic coast from the Julian Alps range, extreme bora winds often occur there. They have influenced the region's traditional lifestyle and architecture. Towns on the coast, where the bora frequently occurs, are built densely with narrow streets in part because of the wind. Buildings in several towns and villages in Slovenia and the Province of Trieste (Italy) have stones on their roofs to prevent the tiles from being blown off. Chains and ropes are occasionally stretched along the sidewalks in downtown Trieste, Italy, to facilitate pedestrian traffic — gusts in the city are usually above 120 km/h reaching to maxima of near 200 km/h. A strong bora will often be reported on Italian television news. Slovenian towns where the strongest bora occurs are Ajdovščina, Vipava and, to a lesser extent, Nova Gorica. In Slovenia, the most affected section is usually the upper part of the Vipava Valley, stretching from Ajdovščina to Podnanos, where the speed of the wind can exceed 200 km/h.\n\nStrong bora winds also occur in the Tsemes Bay of the Black Sea near the Russian port of Novorossiysk, where they are known as nordost (\"northeastern\"). They can reach speeds of up to 220 kilometres per hour.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "464779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=464779", "title": "Building material", "text": "Building material\n\nBuilding material is any material which is used for construction purposes. Many naturally occurring substances, such as clay, rocks, sand, and wood, even twigs and leaves, have been used to construct buildings. Apart from naturally occurring materials, many man-made products are in use, some more and some less synthetic. The manufacturing of building materials is an established industry in many countries and the use of these materials is typically segmented into specific specialty trades, such as carpentry, insulation, plumbing, and roofing work. They provide the make-up of and structures including homes.\n\nIn history there are trends in building materials from being natural to becoming more man-made and composite; biodegradable to imperishable; indigenous (local) to being transported globally; repairable to disposable; chosen for increased levels of fire-safety, and improved seismic resistance.. These trends tend to increase the \"initial\" and \"long term\" economic, ecological, energy, and social costs of building materials.\n\nInitial economic cost of building materials is the purchase price. This is often what governs decision making about what materials to use. Sometimes people take into consideration the energy savings or durability of the materials and see the value of paying a higher initial cost in return for a lower lifetime cost. For example, an asphalt shingle roof costs less than a metal roof to install, but the metal roof will last longer so the lifetime cost is less per year. Some materials may require more care than others, maintaining costs specific to some materials may also influence the final decision. Risks when considering lifetime cost of a material is if the building is damaged such as by fire or wind, or if the material is not as durable as advertised. The cost of materials should be taken into consideration to bear the risk to buy combustive materials to enlarge the lifetime. It is said that, 'if it must be done, it must be done well'.\n\nPollution costs can be macro and micro. The macro, environmental pollution of extraction industries building materials rely on such as mining, petroleum, and logging produce environmental damage at their source and in transportation of the raw materials, manufacturing, transportation of the products, retailing, and installation. An example of the micro aspect of pollution is the off-gassing of the building materials in the building or indoor air pollution. Red List building materials are materials found to be harmful. Also the carbon footprint, the total set of greenhouse gas emissions produced in the life of the material. A life-cycle analysis also includes the reuse, recycling, or disposal of construction waste. Two concepts in building which account for the ecological economics of building materials are green building and sustainable development.\n\nthe Initial energy costs include the amount of energy consumed to produce, deliver and install the material. The long term energy cost is the economic, ecological, and social costs of continuing to produce and deliver energy to the building for its use, maintenance, and eventual removal. The initial embodied energy of a structure is the energy consumed to extract, manufacture, deliver, install, the materials. The lifetime embodied energy continues to grow with the use, maintenance, and reuse/recycling/disposal of the building materials themselves \"and\" how the materials and design help minimize the life-time energy consumption of the structure.\n\nSocial costs are injury and health of the people producing and transporting the materials and potential health problems of the building occupants if there are problems with the building biology. Globalization has had significant impacts on people both in terms of jobs, skills, and self-sufficiency are lost when manufacturing facilities are closed and the cultural aspects of where new facilities are opened. Aspects of fair trade and labor rights are social costs of global building material manufacturing.\n\nBrush structures are built entirely from plant parts and were used in primitive cultures such as Native Americans and pygmy peoples in Africa These are built mostly with branches, twigs and leaves, and bark, similar to a beaver's lodge. These were variously named wikiups, lean-tos, and so forth.\n\nAn extension on the brush building idea is the wattle and daub process in which clay soils or dung, usually cow, are used to fill in and cover a woven brush structure. This gives the structure more thermal mass and strength. Wattle and daub is one of the oldest building techniques. Many older timber frame buildings incorporate wattle and daub as non load bearing walls between the timber frames.\n\nSnow and occasionally ice, were used by the Inuit peoples for igloos and snow is used to build a shelter called a quinzhee. Ice has also been used for ice hotels as a tourist attraction in northern climates.\n\nClay based buildings usually come in two distinct types. One being when the walls are made directly with the mud mixture, and the other being walls built by stacking air-dried building blocks called mud bricks.\n\nOther uses of clay in building is combined with straws to create light clay, wattle and daub, and mud plaster.\n\nWet-laid, or damp, walls are made by using the mud or clay mixture directly without forming blocks and drying them first. The amount of and type of each material in the mixture used leads to different styles of buildings. The deciding factor is usually connected with the quality of the soil being used. Larger amounts of clay are usually employed in building with \"cob\", while low-clay soil is usually associated with \"sod house\" or \"sod roof\" construction. The other main ingredients include more or less sand/gravel and straw/grasses. \"Rammed earth\" is both an old and newer take on creating walls, once made by compacting clay soils between planks by hand; nowadays forms and mechanical pneumatic compressors are used.\n\nSoil, and especially clay, provides good thermal mass; it is very good at keeping temperatures at a constant level. Homes built with earth tend to be naturally cool in the summer heat and warm in cold weather. Clay holds heat or cold, releasing it over a period of time like stone. Earthen walls change temperature slowly, so artificially raising or lowering the temperature can use more resources than in say a wood built house, but the heat/coolness stays longer.\n\nPeople building with mostly dirt and clay, such as cob, sod, and adobe, created homes that have been built for centuries in western and northern Europe, Asia, as well as the rest of the world, and continue to be built, though on a smaller scale. Some of these buildings have remained habitable for hundreds of years.\n\n\"Mud-bricks\", also known by their Spanish name \"adobe\" are ancient building materials with evidence dating back thousands of years BC. \"Compressed earth blocks\" are a more modern type of brick used for building more frequently in industrialized society since the building blocks can be manufactured off site in a centralized location at a brickworks and transported to multiple building locations. These blocks can also be monetized more easily and sold.\n\nStructural mud bricks are almost always made using clay, often clay soil and a binder are the only ingredients used, but other ingredients can include sand, lime, concrete, stone and other binders. The formed or compressed block is then air dried and can be laid dry or with a mortar or clay slip.\n\nSand is used with cement, and sometimes lime, to make mortar for masonry work and plaster. Sand is also used as a part of the concrete mix. An important low-cost building material in countries with high sand content soils is the Sandcrete block, which is weaker but cheaper than fired clay bricks.\n\nRock structures have existed for as long as history can recall. It is the longest lasting building material available, and is usually readily available. There are many types of rock throughout the world, all with differing attributes that make them better or worse for particular uses. Rock is a very dense material so it gives a lot of protection too; its main drawback as a material is its weight and awkwardness. Its energy density is also considered a big drawback, as stone is hard to keep warm without using large amounts of heating resources.\n\nDry-stone walls have been built for as long as humans have put one stone on top of another. Eventually, different forms of mortar were used to hold the stones together, cement being the most commonplace now.\n\nThe granite-strewn uplands of Dartmoor National Park, United Kingdom, for example, provided ample resources for early settlers. Circular huts were constructed from loose granite rocks throughout the Neolithic and early Bronze Age, and the remains of an estimated 5,000 can still be seen today. Granite continued to be used throughout the Medieval period (see Dartmoor longhouse) and into modern times. Slate is another stone type, commonly used as roofing material in the United Kingdom and other parts of the world where it is found.\n\nStone buildings can be seen in most major cities; some civilizations built entirely with stone such as the Egyptian and Aztec pyramids and the structures of the Inca civilization.\n\nThatch is one of the oldest of building materials known, Thatch is another word for grass; grass is a good insulator and easily harvested. Many African tribes have lived in homes made completely of grasses and sand year-round. In Europe, thatch roofs on homes were once prevalent but the material fell out of favor as industrialization and improved transport increased the availability of other materials. Today, though, the practice is undergoing a revival. In the Netherlands, for instance, many new buildings have thatched roofs with special ridge tiles on top.\n\nWood has been used as a building material for thousands of years in its natural state. Today, engineered wood is becoming very common in industrialized countries.\n\nWood is a product of trees, and sometimes other fibrous plants, used for construction purposes when cut or pressed into lumber and timber, such as boards, planks and similar materials. It is a generic building material and is used in building just about any type of structure in most climates. Wood can be very flexible under loads, keeping strength while bending, and is incredibly strong when compressed vertically. There are many differing qualities to the different types of wood, even among same tree species. This means specific species are better suited for various uses than others. And growing conditions are important for deciding quality.\n\n\"Timber\" is the term used for construction purposes except the term \"lumber\" is used in the United States. Raw wood (a log, trunk, bole) becomes timber when the wood has been \"converted\" (sawn, hewn, split) in the forms of minimally-processed logs stacked on top of each other, timber frame construction, and light-frame construction. The main problems with timber structures are fire risk and moisture-related problems.\n\nIn modern times softwood is used as a lower-value bulk material, whereas hardwood is usually used for finishings and furniture. Historically timber frame structures were built with oak in western Europe, recently douglas fir has become the most popular wood for most types of structural building.\n\nMany families or communities, in rural areas, have a personal woodlot from which the family or community will grow and harvest trees to build with or sell. These lots are tended to like a garden. This was much more prevalent in pre-industrial times, when laws existed as to the amount of wood one could cut at any one time to ensure there would be a supply of timber for the future, but is still a viable form of agriculture.\n\nBricks are made in a similar way to mud-bricks except without the fibrous binder such as straw and are \"fired\" (\"burned\" in a brick clamp or kiln) after they have air-dried to permanently harden them. Kiln fired clay bricks are a ceramic material. Fired bricks can be solid or have hollow cavities to aid in drying and make them lighter and easier to transport. The individual bricks are placed upon each other in courses using mortar. Successive courses being used to build up walls, arches, and other architectural elements. Fired brick walls are usually substantially thinner than cob/adobe while keeping the same vertical strength. They require more energy to create but are easier to transport and store, and are lighter than stone blocks. Romans extensively used fired brick of a shape and type now called Roman bricks. Building with brick gained much popularity in the mid-18th century and 19th centuries. This was due to lower costs with increases in brick manufacturing and fire-safety in the ever crowding cities.\n\nThe cinder block supplemented or replaced fired bricks in the late 20th century often being used for the inner parts of masonry walls and by themselves.\n\nStructural clay tiles (clay blocks) are clay or terracotta and typically are perforated with holes.\n\nCement bonded composites are made of hydrated cement paste that binds wood, particles, or fibers to make pre-cast building components. Various fiberous materials, including paper, fiberglass, and carbon-fiber have been used as binders.\n\nWood and natural fibers are composed of various soluble organic compounds like carbohydrates, glycosides and phenolics. These compounds are known to retard cement setting. Therefore, before using a wood in making cement bonded composites, its compatibility with cement is assessed.\n\nWood-cement compatibility is the ratio of a parameter related to the property of a wood-cement composite to that of a neat cement paste. The compatibility is often expressed as a percentage value. To determine wood-cement compatibility, methods based on different properties are used, such as, hydration characteristics, strength, interfacial bond and morphology. Various methods are used by researchers such as the measurement of hydration characteristics of a cement-aggregate mix; the comparison of the mechanical properties of cement-aggregate mixes and the visual assessment of microstructural properties of the wood-cement mixes. It has been found that the hydration test by measuring the change in hydration temperature with time is the most convenient method. Recently, Karade et al. have reviewed these methods of compatibility assessment and suggested a method based on the ‘maturity concept’ i.e. taking in consideration both time and temperature of cement hydration reaction.\n\nBricks were laid in lime mortar from the time of the Romans until supplanted by Portland cement mortar in the early 20th century. Cement blocks also sometimes are filled with grout or covered with a parge coat.\n\nConcrete is a composite building material made from the combination of aggregate and a binder such as cement. The most common form of concrete is Portland cement concrete, which consists of mineral aggregate (generally gravel and sand), portland cement and water.\n\nAfter mixing, the cement hydrates and eventually hardens into a stone-like material. When used in the generic sense, this is the material referred to by the term \"concrete\".\n\nFor a concrete construction of any size, as concrete has a rather low tensile strength, it is generally strengthened using steel rods or bars (known as rebars). This strengthened concrete is then referred to as reinforced concrete. In order to minimise any air bubbles, that would weaken the structure, a vibrator is used to eliminate any air that has been entrained when the liquid concrete mix is poured around the ironwork. Concrete has been the predominant building material in the modern age due to its longevity, formability, and ease of transport. Recent advancements, such as insulating concrete forms, combine the concrete forming and other construction steps (installation of insulation). All materials must be taken in required proportions as described in standards.\n\nThe tent is the home of choice among nomadic groups all over the world. Two well-known types include the conical teepee and the circular yurt. The tent has been revived as a major construction technique with the development of tensile architecture and synthetic fabrics. Modern buildings can be made of flexible material such as fabric membranes, and supported by a system of steel cables, rigid or internal, or by air pressure.\n\nRecently, synthetic polystyrene or polyurethane foam has been used in combination with structural materials, such as concrete. It is lightweight, easily shaped, and an excellent insulator. Foam is usually used as part of a structural insulated panel, wherein the foam is sandwiched between wood or cement or insulating concrete forms.\n\nGlassmaking is considered an art form as well as an industrial process or material.\n\nClear windows have been used since the invention of glass to cover small openings in a building. Glass panes provided humans with the ability to both let light into rooms while at the same time keeping inclement weather outside.\n\nGlass is generally made from mixtures of sand and silicates, in a very hot fire stove called a kiln, and is very brittle. Additives are often included the mixture used to produce glass with shades of colors or various characteristics (such as bulletproof glass or lightbulbs.\n\nThe use of glass in architectural buildings has become very popular in the modern culture. Glass \"curtain walls\" can be used to cover the entire facade of a building, or it can be used to span over a wide roof structure in a \"space frame\". These uses though require some sort of frame to hold sections of glass together, as glass by itself is too brittle and would require an overly large kiln to be used to span such large areas by itself.\n\nGlass bricks were invented in the early 20th century.\n\nGypcrete is a mixture of gypsum plaster and fibreglass rovings. Although plaster and fibres fiborous plaster have been used for many years, especially for ceilings, it was not until the early 1990s that serious studies of the strength and qualities of a walling system Rapidwall, using a mixture of gypsum plaster and 300mm plus fibreglass rovings, were investigated. It was discovered, through testing at the University of Adelaide, that these walls had significant, load bearing, shear and lateral resistance together with earthquake-resistance, fire-resistance, and thermal properties. With an abundance of gypsum (naturally occurring and by-product chemical FGD and phospho gypsums) available worldwide, gypcrete-based building products, which are fully recyclable, offer significant environmental benefits.\n\nMetal is used as structural framework for larger buildings such as skyscrapers, or as an external surface covering. There are many types of metals used for building. Metal figures quite prominently in prefabricated structures such as the Quonset hut, and can be seen used in most cosmopolitan cities. It requires a great deal of human labor to produce metal, especially in the large amounts needed for the building industries.\nCorrosion is metal's prime enemy when it comes to longevity.\n\nThe term \"plastics\" covers a range of synthetic or semi-synthetic organic condensation or polymerization products that can be molded or extruded into objects, films, or fibers. Their name is derived from the fact that in their semi-liquid state they are malleable, or have the property of plasticity. Plastics vary immensely in heat tolerance, hardness, and resiliency. Combined with this adaptability, the general uniformity of composition and lightness of plastics ensures their use in almost all industrial applications today. High performance plastics such as ETFE have become an ideal building material due to its high abrasion resistance and chemical inertness. Notable buildings that feature it include: the Beijing National Aquatics Center and the Eden Project biomes.\n\nBuilding papers and membranes are used for many reasons in construction. One of the oldest building papers is red rosin paper which was known to be in use before 1850 and was used as an underlayment in exterior walls, roofs, and floors and for protecting a jobsite during construction. Tar paper was invented late in the 19th century and was used for similar purposes as rosin paper and for gravel roofs. Tar paper has largely fallen out of use supplanted by asphalt felt paper. Felt paper has been supplanted in some uses by synthetic underlayments, particularly in roofing by synthetic underlayments and siding by housewraps.\n\nThere are a wide variety of damp proofing and waterproofing membranes used for roofing, basement waterproofing, and geomembranes.\n\nFired clay bricks have been used since the time of the Romans. Special tiles are used for roofing, siding, flooring, ceilings, pipes, flue liners, and more.\n\nIn the market place the term \"building products\" often refers to ready-made particles/sections, made from various materials, that are fitted in architectural hardware and decorative hardware parts of a building. The list of building products excludes the building materials used to construct the building architecture and supporting fixtures, like windows, doors, cabinets, etc. Building products, rather, support and make building materials work in a modular fashion.\n\n\"Building products\" may also refer to items used to put such hardware together, such as caulking, glues, paint, and anything else bought for the purpose of constructing a building.\n\n\n\nSvoboda, Luboš(2018). Stavební hmoty (Building materials),\n1000 p.\n\n"}
{"id": "57032000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57032000", "title": "Casa Labra", "text": "Casa Labra\n\nCasa Labra is a pub in Madrid located close to the Puerta del Sol that was established and has been open since 1860. It is famous for being the site for the foundation of the Spanish Socialist Workers' Party by Pablo Iglesias on May 2, 1879.\n\n"}
{"id": "2729902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2729902", "title": "Characene", "text": "Characene\n\nCharacene (), (Ancient Greek: Χαρακηνή), also known as Mesene (Μεσσήνη) or Meshan, was an Arab principality within the Parthian Empire located at the head of the Persian Gulf. Its capital, Charax Spasinou (Χάραξ Σπασινού), was an important port for trade between Mesopotamia and India, and also provided port facilities for the city of Susa further up the Karun River.\n\nCharacene was part of the Sassanid Empire and was located primarily within the southern part of present-day Iraq. At one point Characene included Tylos, the present-day country of Bahrain.\n\nCharacene was founded around 127 BC under Aspasine, known in classical writings as Hyspaosines, a former satrap installed by Antiochus IV Epiphanes. Characene remained intact throughout the Seleucid Empire and continued as an essentially independent kingdom under the Parthians until it was conquered by the Sassanians at the beginning of the third century AD.\n\nAfter the Parthian conquest, Characene remained a semi-autonomous country with its own kings. Its tenure as a separate kingdom ended with the fall of the Parthian Empire.\n\nThe kings of Characene are known mainly by their coins, consisting mainly of silver tetradrachms with Greek and later Aramaic inscriptions. These coins are dated after the Seleucid era, providing a secure framework for chronological succession.\n\nCharax, the capital of Characene, was founded by Alexander the Great. The city was constructed on an artificial mound to protect the site from the floodwaters of the nearby rivers. The new town served as a major commercial port for the eastern capital of Babylon. Charax flourished under the Seleucid Empire, controlling the trade in the Persian Gulf and the Indian Ocean. It was also a center for pearl diving.\n\nThe Roman emperor Trajan visited Charax in 116 AD during his invasion of Parthia, where he saw ships bound for India.\n\nAfter it was destroyed by a flood, Charax was rebuilt by Seleucid king Antiochus III the Great (222–187 BC) and was briefly called Antiochia. After the Parthian invasion of Mesopotamia in 141 BC, Charax became independent.\n\nThe state kept its independence (perhaps as a vassal of the Parthian Empire) and sometimes joined the Romans in their struggle against the common enemy, the Parthian king. In his Natural History, Pliny the Elder praises the port of Charax:\n\nTrade continued to be important. A famous Characenian, a man named Isidore, was the author of a treatise on Parthian trade routes, the \"Mansiones Parthicae\". The inhabitants of Palmyra had a permanent trading station in Characene. Many inscriptions mention caravan trade.\n\nIn 221-22 AD, an ethnic Persian, Ardašēr, who was satrap of Fars, led a revolt against the Parthians, establishing the Sassanid Empire. According to later Arab histories, he defeated Characene forces, killed its last ruler, rebuilt the town, and renamed it Astarābād-Ardašīr\".\" The area around Charax that had been the Characene state was thereon known by the Aramaic/Syriac name Maysān, which was later adapted by the Arab conquerors.\n\nCharax continued, under the name Maysān, with Persian texts making various mention of governors throughout the fifth century. A Nestorian Church was mentioned there in the sixth century. The Charax mint appears to have continued throughout the Sassanid empire and into the Umayyad empire, minting coins as late as AD 715.\n\nThe earliest references from the first century A.D. indicates that the people of Characene were referred to as Μεσηνός and lived along the Arabian side of the coast at the head of the Persian Gulf.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4330584", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4330584", "title": "Coma Pedrosa", "text": "Coma Pedrosa\n\nComa Pedrosa (; ) is the highest mountain in the principality of Andorra. It is popular with mountain climbers, its ascent being technically straightforward, although strenuous. From Arinsal to Camp de Refuge (650m climb) is being considered moderate meanwhile the last 862m is considered to be difficult. Several mountain lakes and tarns are found on the slopes, notably Estanys de Baiau, which lies on the western slopes, across the Spanish border.\n\nThe nearest town is Arinsal, La Massana. Historically, the mountain provided ample security from invasions into Andorra. In present day, the mountain is part of the Parc Natural Comunal de les Valls del Comapedrosa national park.\n\nComa Pedrosa, shaped like a pyramid, is situated at the northwestern border with France and Spain. It has in the past acted as a barrier between Andorra and France. The mountainous terrain of Andorra, a landlocked country, contains 65 peaks that rise to an elevation of greater than , and of the 65 peaks, Coma Pedrosa has the highest one at .\n\nIts recent exposure to tourism has attracted millions to enjoy the unique scenic beauty of its hills and valleys. The higher reaches of the mountain are covered with forests while the lower reaches have some arable lands. The mountain gets fully covered with snow during the winter months which provides opportunities for skiing and mountaineering, ice climbing and scrambling. During the summer season, the mountain provides many easy routes for trekking through the Arinsal valley covering neighbouring areas of Vall Ferrera in Spain after crossing Baiau, the mountain pass.\n\nThe town of Arinsal is in the narrow valley below the mountain. The Coma Pedrosa's Estany Negre, the Torta Coma, Coma's Gaspedrosa, the Puestode las Erolas, Cape dels Croes, and Puig dels Emborts in the Sierra del Aguiro surround the parish of La Massana.\n\nThe local area is known as Comapedrosa. The mountain is in a natural park called Parque Natural Comunal de los Valles del Comapedrosa (Communal natural park of the Comapedrosa valleys).\n\nThe forest vegetation in the mountain and its valleys are of pines, birch and firs. There are many glacier lakes formed within the valley created by the mountains and also vast meadows. Consequent to the popularity of skiing in and around this mountain valley near Arinsal and close to the Andorra la Vella and other valleys in Andorra, the pristine ambiance of the valley has been inundated with tourist resorts, hotels, restaurants and business establishments catering to tourists. This has created an awareness to preserve virgin mountains and forests, and put restrictions on further proliferation of ski resorts and urban activities by introducing a national network of parks as preserves.\n\nThe trek or the mountain climb starts from Arinsal, which is considered an easy route, from the picnic area at the base of the Ribal Warefall at . It takes about 4 to 4 hours to reach the highest point of Pic de Coma Pedrosa. The first part of the climb, taking just under half an hour, is along a wide, long foot track through a sign post to Aigues Juntes, which is the confluence of the Coma Pedrosa River and Pla de l'Estany River rising from the mountains and arriving at Grau. The ascent continues along a steep hill slope of the Coma Pedrosa River valley and arrives at the Coma Pedrosa refuge or camping site at an elevation , which is located near the l'Estany de les Truites (Trout Lake). A further hour's walk leads to the Estany Negre (Black Lake), named on account of its colour. The last stretch is for about one hour from Estany Negre to the highest peak in Andorra at elevation, and this trek, passing through rocky terrain, is difficult. The return trek follows the same route. A diversion through Malhiverns pass instead of Estany Negre is more enjoyable.\n\nIn the Arinsal valley below the Coma Pedrosa, winter season offers skiing and snowboarding. The first ski lifts were installed in Arinsal in 1973. It is northwest of Andorra la Vella and northwest of Massana, providing a pleasant après-ski sight. At an altitude of lies Refugi de Coma Pedrosa, a mountain hut. It was inaugurated in 1992.\n\n"}
{"id": "2320585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2320585", "title": "Denmark Sound", "text": "Denmark Sound\n\nDenmark Sound or Denmark Fjord () is a fjord or sound located on the northeast tip of Greenland within Northeast Greenland National Park.\n\nThe fjord was found and named during the ill-fated Denmark expedition 1906-1908 led by Ludvig Mylius-Erichsen which mapped Greenland's north coast between Cape York and Denmark Sound.\n\nThis fjord, together with Independence Sound and Hagen Sound, flows into the Wandel Sea, which is part of the Arctic Ocean.\nThree islands are located in the bay at the mouth of the sound, Princess Thyra Island, Princess Margaret Island and Princess Dagmar Island. The area was formerly part of Avannaa, originally Nordgrønland (\"North Greenland\"), a former county of Greenland until 31 December 2008.\n\nThe Danish military base/weather station Nord is located by the sound on the western side of Crown Prince Christian Land Peninsula.\n\n"}
{"id": "7276677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7276677", "title": "Devín Gate", "text": "Devín Gate\n\nDevín Gate or Hainburger Gate (, ; ) is a natural gate in the Danube valley at the border of Slovakia and Austria. It is one out of four geomorphological areas of the Devín Carpathians, part of the Little Carpathians mountain range. Passau, Devín Gate, and the Iron Gates divide the Danube river into four distinct sections.\n\nDevín Gate has been inhabited since prehistoric times, with continuous settlement since 5000 BC. It was a strategic part of the ancient Amber Road connecting Northern Europe with the Mediterranean and during the Middle Ages, five castles have been built here, Heimenburg Castle, Rothelstein Castle, Pottenburg Castle, Devín Castle, and Bratislava Castle. It was continually guarded since the Roman times and it has served as a border of the Roman Empire, Austrian Empire, the Iron Curtain during the Cold War and finally a border between Austria and Czechoslovakia, today Slovakia. On 1 May 2004 Slovakia entered the Schengen Zone, allowing free movement of persons for the first time in history.\n\nFormerly, the gate was called in and in .\n\nIn a wider sense it begins below Bratislava Castle (in which case the gate is 11.5 km long and 2 to 7 km wide) and in a narrower sense it begins below Devín Castle. It ends near Hundsheimer Berg, the highest peak of the Austrian Carpathians at 480 meters AMSL, in Austria on the right bank of the Danube. To the east, it borders another natural gate, the Lamač Gate.\n\nGeologically, Devín Gate was created during the Pleistocene epoch. A large part of its core consists of granite massifs from the Carboniferous period. It also features limestones and dolomites from the Cenozoic era. Neogene period sediments include conglomerates, gravels and others. On the Upper Danube, comprising the section between the springs where the river begins and Devín Gate upstream of Bratislava, the extension of the morphological floodplain is smaller as compared to the rest of the river.\n\nNeolithic farmers settled in the area approximately 5000 - 3500 BC, establishing continuous human settlement which lasts until present time.\n\n"}
{"id": "26664054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26664054", "title": "East West Trail", "text": "East West Trail\n\n\"For the East West Trail in Clearwater, Florida see Ream Wilson Clearwater Trail\" \n\nThe East West Trail is a trail on Bougainville that runs from Mawareka and Mosigetta, to Buin in the south. It was wide and cleared and skirted around the coastal swamps. \n\nThe trail featured during the Bougainville campaign during World War II with a number of battles fought along the trail.\n"}
{"id": "819958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=819958", "title": "Fra Mauro", "text": "Fra Mauro\n\nFra Mauro, O.S.B. Cam., (died 1464) was an Italian cartographer who lived in the Republic of Venice. He created the most detailed and accurate map of the world up until that time, the Fra Mauro map.\n\nMauro was a monk of the Camaldolese Monastery of St. Michael, located on the island of Murano in the Venetian Lagoon. It was there that he maintained a cartography workshop. He also was employed by some very powerful men like Prince Henry the Navigator.\n\nFra Mauro was born before or around the year 1400. In his youth, Mauro had traveled extensively as a merchant and a soldier. He was familiar with the Middle East. He is recorded in the records of the Monastery of St. Michael from 1409. As a lay member of the monastery, Mauro was employed as mapmaker. In the records of the monastery his main job was recorded as collecting the monastery's rents, but from the 1450s he is also mentioned as the creator of a series of world maps. Although he was no longer free to travel, due to his religious status, he would frequently consult with merchants of the city upon their return from overseas voyages. By 1450 he composed a great \"mappa mundi\" - a world map - with surprising accuracy, including extensive written comments reflecting the geographic knowledge of his time. The map is known today as the \"Fra Mauro map\".\n\nThe Fra Mauro world map, or mappa mundi, was a major cartographical work that compiled much of the geographical knowledge of the time. The map covers over five square meters. The map is extremely detailed and contains many thousands of texts and illustrations. The world map took several years to complete and was the most detailed and accurate world map that had been produced up until that time.\n\nFra Mauro created the map under a commission by King Afonso V of Portugal. Andrea Bianco, a sailor-cartographer, is recorded as having collaborated with Fra Mauro in creating the map, as payments made to him between 1448 and 1459 testify. The map was completed on 24 April 1459, and sent to Portugal, but that copy didn't survive. Along with the map was a letter from the Doge of Venice. It was intended for Prince Henry the Navigator, Afonso V's uncle. It encouraged the prince to continue funding exploratory journeys. Fra Mauro died the following year, while he was making a copy of the map for the Signoria of Venice. The copy was completed by Andrea Bianco. A commemorative medal of the period struck in honor of his cartographic work describes Fra Mauro as \"chosmographus incomparabilis\".\n\nTwo copies of maps by Fra Mauro are known to survive. One is a portolan chart in the Vatican Library, (Codice Borgiano V) published by Roberto Almagià in 1944. The other was recognized by Antonio Ratti as a copy signed by Giorgio Callapoda at Candia and dated 1541, of a lost chart by Fra Mauro, sold at auction in Milan in 1984 and now in a private collection, probably in France.\n\nThe crater Fra Mauro and associated Fra Mauro formation of the Moon are named after him. The Apollo 13 lunar mission was intended to explore the Fra Mauro formation, but – due to the explosion aboard the spacecraft – Apollo 13's crew had to return to Earth without landing on the Moon. The formation was instead explored by astronauts Alan Shepard and Edgar Mitchell of the Apollo 14 mission in February 1971.\n\n"}
{"id": "383164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=383164", "title": "Hwanghae Province", "text": "Hwanghae Province\n\nHwanghae (\"Hwanghae-do\" ) was one of the Eight Provinces of Korea during the Joseon. Hwanghae was located in the northwest of Korea. The provincial capital was Haeju. \nThe regional name for the province was Haeseo.\n\nIn 1395, the province was organized as P'unghae (\"P'unghae-do;\" 풍해도; 豊海道). In 1417, the province was renamed Hwanghae. The name derived from the names of the two principal cities of Hwangju (황주; 黃州) and Haeju (해주; 海州).\n\nIn 1895, the province was reorganized into the Districts of Haeju (\"Haeju-bu;\" 해주부; 海州府) in the west and Gaeseong (\"Gaeseong-bu;\" 개성부; 開城府) in the east, but in 1896, a new system of thirteen provinces was established, and Hwanghae Province was reconstituted.\n\nIn 1945, Korea was divided into Soviet and American zones of occupation, north and south respectively of the 38th parallel. The southernmost part of Hwanghae (around the towns of Ongjin and Yonan County) was cut off from the rest of the province by the dividing line and joined Gyeonggi Province in the southern half of the country. In 1948, Hwanghae and Gyeonggi Provinces became parts of the new countries of North and South Korea respectively.\n\nIn 1953, at the end of the Korean War, the Northern Limit Line was established, which marked the maritime boundary between North and South Korea. The line runs between the mainland portion of Gyeonggi Province that had been part of Hwanghae before 1945, and the adjacent offshore islands (the largest of which is Baengnyeongdo). As a result, the mainland portion reverted to North Korean control, while the islands remained a part of South Korea. (Since 1999, North Korea has claimed a more southerly Maritime Military Demarcation Line, which would make the islands a part of North Korea as well. Disputes between North and South Korean naval vessels often occur in this area.)\n\nIn 1954, North Korea's Hwanghae Province was divided into North and South Hwanghae Provinces.\n\nHwanghae was bounded by Pyeongan Province (after 1896 South Pyeongan) on the north, Gangwon Province on the east, Gyeonggi Province on the south, and the Yellow Sea on the west.\n\n"}
{"id": "185088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=185088", "title": "Ifni", "text": "Ifni\n\nIfni was a Spanish province on the Atlantic coast of Morocco, south of Agadir and across from the Canary Islands.\n\nIt had a total area of 1,502 km² (580 sq mi), and a population of 51,517 in 1964. The main industry was fishing.\n\nSpain's presence in the area can be traced to a settlement called Santa Cruz de la Mar Pequeña, founded in 1476. After attacks by the Berbers, the Spanish decided to focus on colonising other areas of North Africa and abandoned the region.\n\nIn the mid-19th century, when the European powers looked again to Africa for resources, Spain suddenly mooted an interest in its lost late medieval fortress in order to stake a claim to the southern part of Morocco. This served as a pretext for a short war with Morocco in 1859.\n\nThe territory and its main town of Sidi Ifni were ceded to Spain by the Sultanate of Morocco on 26 April 1860, but there was little interest in this colonial acquisition until 1934, when the Governor-General of Spanish Sahara took up residence.\n\nUntil 1952, Ifni region had the status of a protectorate. In this year, the region became part of Spanish West Africa (entity that grouped the colonies of Spanish Sahara and Cape Juby).\n\nAfter the Ifni War (1957), most of the territory became occupied de facto by Morocco.\nIn 1958, the colony was made into a Spanish province in order to forestall United Nations criticism of continued colonisation.\n\nSpain formally returned the territory to Morocco on 30 June 1969. The territory was integrated into the Moroccan region of Souss-Massa-Drâa.\n\nSpain began issuing postage stamps for Ifni in 1941, initially overprinting Spanish stamps with \"TERRITORIO DE IFNI\", then issuing new designs in 1943. Issues followed at the rate of about ten per year with the last on 23 November 1968. Most are commonly available and are more often seen unused than used.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44799298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44799298", "title": "International Ecological Safety Collaborative Organization", "text": "International Ecological Safety Collaborative Organization\n\nThe International Ecological Safety Collaborative Organization (abbreviated IESCO) was established in 2006 in China and founded as an international organization. It had cooperation with some related UN agencies and was in compliance with UN Millennium Development Goals (MDGs).\n\nThe World Ecological Safety Assembly (Presidium) - the highest authority of IESCO\n\nThe Executive Committee - the executive body of the Assembly\n\nExecutive Chairperson - Sok An\n\nDirector-General - Jiang Mingjun\n\nThe Secretariat of IESCO,New York (IGO)\n\nThe Secretariat of IESCO,Hong Kong (NGO)\n\nWorld Ecological Safety Assembly (every two years)\n\nWorld Ecological Safety Expo (every two years)\n\nEuro-Asia Ecological Safety Conference (annually)\n\nIn 2006, IESCO was established.\n\nIn 2010, IESCO - Observer’s status at the International Conference of Asian Political Parties (ICAPP).\n\nIn 2011, IESCO - Special consultative status at UN Economic and Social Council (UN-ECOSOC) and observer's status at the plenary meeting of UN-ECOSOC and observer's status at UN Alliance of Civilizations.\n\nIn 2012, IESCO - Advisory institution of ICAPP and the Permanent Conference of Political Parties of Latin America and the Caribbean (COPPPAL).\n\nIn 2013, IESCO and UN-Habitat started to cooperate to implement \"UN Youth Empowerment and Urban Ecological Safety\" programmes.\n\n\"UN Committee of Youth Empowerment and Ecological Safety\" is a Program of UN-Habitat and IESCO which was co-launched in April, 2013 and established in August, 2013.—UN Youth Empowerment and Urban Ecology Committee --\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "965569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=965569", "title": "Jason-1", "text": "Jason-1\n\nJason-1 is a satellite oceanography mission to monitor global ocean circulation, study the ties between the ocean and the atmosphere, improve global climate forecasts and predictions, and monitor events such as El Niño and ocean eddies.\n\nThe lineage of the name begins with the JASO1 meeting (JASO = Journées Altimétriques Satellitaires pour l'Océanographie) in Toulouse, France to study the problems of assimilating altimeter data in models. Jason as an acronym also stands for \"Joint Altimetry Satellite Oceanography Network\". Additionally it is used to reference the mythical quest for knowledge of Jason and the Argonauts.\n\nJason-1 is the successor to the TOPEX/Poseidon mission, which measured ocean surface topography from 1992 through 2005. Like its predecessor, Jason-1 is a joint project between the NASA (United States) and CNES (France) space agencies. Jason-1's successor, the Ocean Surface Topography Mission on the Jason-2 satellite, was launched in June 2008. These satellites provide a unique global view of the oceans that is impossible to acquire using traditional ship-based sampling.\n\nJason-1 was built by Thales Alenia Space using a Proteus platform, under a contract from CNES, as well as the main Jason-1 instrument, the Poseidon-2 altimeter (successor to the Poseidon altimeter on-board TOPEX/Poseidon)\n\nJason-1 was designed to measure climate change through very precise millimeter-per-year measurements of global sea level changes. As did TOPEX/Poseidon, Jason-1 uses an altimeter to measure the hills and valleys of the ocean's surface. These measurements of sea surface topography allow scientists to calculate the speed and direction of ocean currents and monitor global ocean circulation. The global ocean is Earth's primary storehouse of solar energy. Jason-1's measurements of sea surface height reveal where this heat is stored, how it moves around Earth by ocean currents, and how these processes affect weather and climate.\n\nJason-1 was launched on December 7, 2001 from California's Vandenberg Air Force Base aboard a Delta II rocket. During the first months Jason-1 shared an almost identical orbit to TOPEX/Poseidon, which allowed for cross calibration. At the end of this period, the older satellite was moved to a new orbit midway between each Jason ground track. Jason had a repeat cycle of 10 days.\n\nOn 16 March 2002, Jason-1 experienced a sudden attitude upset, accompanied by temporary fluctuations in the onboard electrical systems. Soon after this incident, two new small pieces of space debris were observed in orbits slightly lower than Jason-1's, and spectroscopic analysis eventually proved them to have originated from Jason-1. In 2011, it was determined that the pieces of debris had most likely been ejected from Jason-1 by an unidentified, small \"high-speed particle\" hitting one of the spacecraft's solar panels.\n\nOrbit maneuvers in 2009 put the Jason-1 satellite on the opposite side of Earth from the Jason-2 satellite, which is operated by the U.S. and French weather agencies. At that time, Jason-1 flew over the same region of the ocean that Jason-2 flew over five days earlier. Its ground tracks fell midway between those of Jason-2, which are about apart at the equator.\n\nThis interleaved tandem mission provided twice the number of measurements of the ocean's surface, bringing smaller features such as ocean eddies into view. The tandem mission also helped pave the way for a future ocean altimeter mission that would collect much more detailed data with its single instrument than the two Jason satellites now do together.\n\nIn early 2012, having helped cross-calibrate the Jason-2 replacement mission, Jason-1 was maneuvered into its graveyard orbit and all remaining fuel was vented. The mission was still able to return science data, measuring Earth's gravity field over the ocean. On 21 June 2013, contact with Jason-1 was lost; multiple attempts to re-establish communication failed. It was determined that the last remaining transmitter on board the spacecraft had failed. Operators sent commands to the satellite to turn off remaining functioning components on 1 July 2013, rendering it decommissioned. It is estimated that the spacecraft will remain on orbit for at least 1,000 years. \n\nThe program is named after the Greek mythological hero Jason.\n\nJason-1 has five 5 instruments:\n\nThe Jason-1 satellite, its altimeter instrument and a position-tracking antenna were built in France. The radiometer, Global Positioning System receiver and laser retroreflector array were built in the United States.\n\nTOPEX/Poseidon and Jason-1 have led to major advances in the science of physical oceanography and in climate studies. Their 15-year data record of ocean surface topography has provided the first opportunity to observe and understand the global change of ocean circulation and sea level. The results have improved the understanding of the role of the ocean in climate change and improved weather and climate predictions. Data from these missions are used to improve ocean models, forecast hurricane intensity, and identify and track large ocean/atmosphere phenomena such as El Niño and La Niña. The data are also used every day in applications as diverse as routing ships, improving the safety and efficiency of offshore industry operations, managing fisheries, and tracking marine mammals.\n\nTOPEX/Poseidon and Jason-1 have made major contributions to the understanding of:\n\nThe missions revealed the surprising variability of the ocean, how much it changes from season to season, year to year, decade to decade and on even longer time scales. They ended the traditional notion of a quasi-steady, large-scale pattern of global ocean circulation by proving that the ocean is changing rapidly on all scales, from huge features such as El Niño and La Niña, which can cover the entire equatorial Pacific, to tiny eddies swirling off the large Gulf Stream in the Atlantic.\n\nMeasurements by Jason-1 indicate that mean sea level has been rising at an average rate of 2.28 millimeters (.09 inches) per year since 2001. This is somewhat less than the rate measured by the earlier TOPEX/Poseidon mission, but over four times the rate measured by the later Envisat mission. Mean sea level measurements from Jason-1 are continuously graphed at the Centre National d'Etudes Spatiales web site, on the Aviso page. A composite sea level graph, using data from several satellites, is also available on that site.\n\nThe data record from these altimetry missions has given scientists important insights into how global sea level is affected by natural climate variability, as well as by human activities.\n\nTOPEX/Poseidon and Jason-1 made clear the importance of planetary-scale waves, such as Rossby and Kelvin waves. No one had realized how widespread these waves are. Thousands of kilometers wide, these waves are driven by wind under the influence of Earth’s rotation and are important mechanisms for transmitting climate signals across the large ocean basins. At high latitudes, they travel twice as fast as scientists believed previously, showing the ocean responds much more quickly to climate changes than was known before these missions.\n\nThe precise measurements of TOPEX/Poseidon’s and Jason-1 have brought knowledge of ocean tides to an unprecedented level. The change of water level due to tidal motion in the deep ocean is known everywhere on the globe to within 2.5 centimeters (one inch). This new knowledge has revised notions about how tides dissipate. Instead of losing all their energy over shallow seas near the coasts, as previously believed, about one third of tidal energy is actually lost to the deep ocean. There, the energy is consumed by mixing water of different properties, a fundamental mechanism in the physics governing the general circulation of the ocean.\n\nTOPEX/Poseidon and Jason-1 observations provided the first global data for improving the performance of the numerical ocean models that are a key component of climate prediction models.\n\nTOPEX/Poseidon and Jason-1 data are available at the University of Colorado Center for Astrodynamics Research, NASA's Physical Oceanography Distributed Active Archive Center, and the French data archive center AVISO.\n\nAltimetry data have a wide variety of uses from basic scientific research on climate to ship routing. Applications include:\n\nClimate Research: Altimetry data are incorporated into computer models to understand and predict changes in the distribution of heat in the ocean, a key element of climate.\n\nEl Niño & La Niña Forecasting: Understanding the pattern and effects of climate cycles such as El Niño helps predict and mitigate the disastrous effects of floods and drought.\n\nHurricane Forecasting: Altimeter data and satellite ocean wind data are incorporated into atmospheric models for hurricane season forecasting and individual storm severity.\n\nShip Routing: Maps of ocean currents, eddies, and vector winds are used in commercial shipping and recreational yachting to optimize routes.\n\nOffshore Industries: Cable-laying vessels and offshore oil operations require accurate knowledge of ocean circulation patterns to minimize impacts from strong currents.\n\nMarine Mammal Research: Sperm whales, fur seals, and other marine mammals can be tracked, and therefore studied, around ocean eddies where nutrients and plankton are abundant.\n\nFisheries Management: Satellite data identify ocean eddies which bring an increase in organisms that comprise the marine food web, attracting fish and fishermen.\n\nCoral Reef Research: Remotely sensed data are used to monitor and assess coral reef ecosystems, which are sensitive to changes in ocean temperature.\n\nMarine Debris Tracking: The amount of floating and partially submerged material, including nets, timber and ship debris, is increasing with human population. Altimetry can help locate these hazardous materials.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15406521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15406521", "title": "Johann Jacob Heber", "text": "Johann Jacob Heber\n\nJohann Jacob Heber (1666–1727) was a surveyor and geometrician from the city of Lindau, Germany. He is the artist of the first map of the Principality of Liechtenstein on record, which he drew in 1721.\n\nHeber was the son of Jacob Heber and Elisabetha Catharina. He married Elisabetha Barbara Hartenstein, daughter of Philipp Mathias Hartenstein and Eva Katharina Spacke, on 26 January 1797 at Thaleischweiler, Rheinland-Pfalz, Germany.\n"}
{"id": "3561477", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3561477", "title": "Kašina", "text": "Kašina\n\nKašina () is a settlement in the City of Zagreb, Croatia, population 1,548 (2011 census). It is located around 22 km north-east of the city centre of Zagreb and north of the district Sesvete.\n\nThe first mention of Kašina is dated to 1217 in the charter of King Andrew II. The church in Kašina was badly damaged in the 1880 Zagreb earthquake.\n"}
{"id": "16749775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16749775", "title": "Kuvan", "text": "Kuvan\n\nKuvan or Kuvan Darya is a dry riverbed of what once was a tributary of the Syr river in Central Asia. The area is located west of Kzyl-Orda. It is an area of archaeological interest and was once home to tigers whose range extensed to the reedy shores of the Aral Sea. The area includes unusual kurgan burial sites. In the late 19th century there was some flow along the tributary before it petered out in marshlands.\n"}
{"id": "6841967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6841967", "title": "Land lot", "text": "Land lot\n\nIn real estate, a lot or plot is a tract or parcel of land owned or meant to be owned by some owner(s). A lot is essentially considered a parcel of real property in some countries or immovable property (meaning practically the same thing) in other countries. Possible owner(s) of a lot can be one or more person(s) or another legal entity, such as a company/corporation, organization, government, or trust. A common form of ownership of a lot is called fee simple in some countries.\n\nA lot may also be defined as a small area of land that is empty except for pavement or similar improvement. An example would be a parking lot. This article covers lots as parcels of land meant to be owned as units by an owner(s).\n\nLike most other types of real estate, lots owned by private parties are subject to a periodic real estate tax payable by the owners to local governments such as a county or municipality. These real estate taxes are based on the assessed value of the real property; additional taxes usually apply to transfer of ownership and property sales. Other fees by government are possible for improvements such as curbs and sidewalks or an impact fee for building a house on a vacant lot.\n\nA lot has defined boundaries (or borders) which are documented somewhere, but the boundaries need not be shown on the land itself. Most lots are small enough to be mapped as if they are flat, in spite of the curvature of the earth. A characteristic of the size of a lot is its area. The area is typically determined as if the land is flat and level, although the terrain of the lot may not be flat, i. e, the lot may be hilly. The contour surface area of the land is changeable and may be too complicated for determining a lot's area.\n\nLots can come in various sizes and shapes. To be considered a single lot, the land described as the \"lot\" must be contiguous. Two separate parcels are considered two lots, not one. Often a lot is sized for a single house or other building. Many lots are rectangular in shape, although other shapes are possible as long as the boundaries are well-defined. Methods of determining or documenting the boundaries of lots include metes and bounds, quadrant method, and use of a plat diagram. Use of the metes and bounds method may be compared to drawing a polygon. Metes are points which are like the vertices (corners) of a polygon. Bounds are line segments between two adjacent metes. Bounds are usually straight lines, but can be curved as long as they are clearly defined.\n\nWhen the boundaries of a lot are not indicated on the lot, a survey of the lot can be made to determine where the boundaries are according to the lot descriptions or plat diagrams. Formal surveys are done by qualified surveyors, who can make a diagram or map of the lot showing boundaries, dimensions, and the locations of any structures such as buildings, etc. Such surveys are also used to determine if there are any encroachments to the lot. Surveyors can sometimes place posts at the metes of a lot.\n\nThe part of the boundary of the lot next to a street or road is the frontage. Developers try to provide at least one side of frontage for every lot, so owners can have transportation access to their lots. As the name implies, street frontage determines which side of the lot is the front, with the opposite side being the back. If the lot area is known, from the deed, then the frontage line can be calculated as depth by measuring the width (as area divided by width = depth). Sometimes minor, usually unnamed driveways called alleys, usually publicly owned, also provide access to the back of a lot. When alleys are present, garages are often located in back of a lot with access from the alley. Also when there are alleys, garbage collection may take place from the alley. Lots at the corners of a block have two sides of frontage and are called corner lots. Corner lots may have the advantage that a garage can be built with street access from the side, but have the disadvantage that there is more parkway lawn to mow and more sidewalk to shovel snow from. In areas with large blocks, homes are sometimes built in the center of the block. In this situation, the lot will usually include a long driveway to provide transportation access. Because the shape is reminiscent of a flag (the home) on a flag pole (the driveway), these lots are called flag lots.\n\nLocal governments often pass zoning laws which control what buildings can be built on a lot and what they can be used for. For example, certain areas are zoned for residential buildings such as houses. Other areas can be commercially, agriculturally, or industrially zoned. Sometimes zoning laws establish other restrictions, such as a minimum lot area and/or frontage length for building a house or other building, maximum building size, or minimum setbacks from a lot boundary for building a structure. This is in addition to building codes which must be met. Also, minimum lot sizes and separations must be met when wells and septic systems are used. In urban areas, sewers and water lines often provide service to households. There may also be restrictions based on covenants established by private parties such as the real estate developer. There may be easements for utilities to run water, sewage, electric power, or telephone lines through a lot.\n\nSomething which is meant to improve the value or usefulness of a lot can be called an appurtenance to the lot. Structures such as buildings, driveways, sidewalks, patios or other pavement, wells, septic systems, signs, and similar improvements which are considered permanently attached to the land in the lot are considered to be real property, usually part of the lot but often parts of a building, such as condominiums, are owned separately. Such structures owned by the lot owner(s), as well as easements which help the lot owners or users, can be considered appurtenances to the lot. A lot without such structures can be called a vacant lot, urban prairie, spare ground, an empty lot, or an unimproved or undeveloped lot.\n\nMany developers divide a large tract of land into lots as a subdivision. Certain areas of the land are dedicated (given to local government for permanent upkeep) as streets and sometimes alleys for transportation and access to lots. Areas between the streets are divided up into lots to be sold to future owners. The layout of the lots is mapped on a plat diagram, which is recorded with the government, typically the county recorder's office. The blocks between streets and the individual lots in each block are given an identifier, usually a number or letter.\n\nLand originally granted by the government was commonly done by documents called land patents. Lots of land can be sold/bought by the owners or conveyed in other ways. Such conveyances are made by documents called deeds which should be recorded by the government, typically the county recorder's office. Deeds specify the lot by including a description such as one determined by the \"metes and bounds\" or quadrant methods, or referring to a lot number and block number in a recorded plat diagram. Deeds often mention that appurtenances to the lot are included in order to convey any structures and other improvements also.\n\nIn front of many lots in urban areas, there are sidewalks, usually publicly owned. Beyond the sidewalk, there may sometimes be a strip of land called a road verge, and then the roadway, being the drivable part of the road.\n\n"}
{"id": "8300416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8300416", "title": "List of Austrian flags", "text": "List of Austrian flags\n\nThis is a list of flags used in Austria. For more information about the national flag, visit the article Flag of Austria.\n"}
{"id": "8935783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8935783", "title": "List of BBC sitcoms", "text": "List of BBC sitcoms\n\nThis is a list of radio and television situation comedies produced by the BBC.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49057214", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49057214", "title": "List of Coptic place names", "text": "List of Coptic place names\n\nBelow is list of Coptic place names for places in Egypt (, \"Kaami\") and the Middle East:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16569028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16569028", "title": "List of ITV journalists and newsreaders", "text": "List of ITV journalists and newsreaders\n\nAs the oldest commercial television network in the UK, Independent Television (generally known as ITV) has employed many journalists and newsreaders to present its news programmes as well as to provide news reports and interviews during its long history.\n\nSince the ITV network started Independent Television News Limited (ITN) has held the contract to produce national and international news for the ITV Network. Meanwhile, the regional ITV stations have provided local news programmes tailored for their regional audiences.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36514852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36514852", "title": "List of Irish dishes", "text": "List of Irish dishes\n\nThis is a list of dishes found in Irish cuisine. Irish cuisine is a style of cooking originating from Ireland or developed by Irish people. It evolved from centuries of social and political change. The cuisine takes its influence from the crops grown and animals farmed in its temperate climate. The introduction of the potato in the second half of the 16th century heavily influenced Ireland's cuisine thereafter and, as a result, is often closely associated with Ireland. Representative Irish dishes include Irish stew, bacon and cabbage, boxty, coddle, and colcannon.\n\n"}
{"id": "48425615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48425615", "title": "List of NASA astronauts in 2015", "text": "List of NASA astronauts in 2015\n\nList of NASA astronauts in 2015, a listing of the U.S. space agency's astronauts around 2015. Not including management astronauts, many new astronauts from NASA Astronaut Group 21 who had graduated after being selected in 2013.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29166225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29166225", "title": "List of Pixar film references", "text": "List of Pixar film references\n\nBeginning with \"Red's Dream\" and its references to previous Pixar short films, Pixar has included references in its films to other works produced by the studio. These have included cameo appearances, references to characters, objects, and titles of works. Additionally, such easter eggs or in-jokes can refer to Pixar staff, associates, or places or events from the company's past. Lastly, some items, such as A113, Pizza Planet or actor John Ratzenberger have appeared in the majority of Pixar films, establishing a set of traditions that subsequent Pixar films try to include.\n\nThe following is a list of all documented self-referential nods contained within Pixar films and shorts that the various filmmakers have incorporated into their movies.\n\nA113 is an Easter egg that has been inserted into several animated television shows and feature films as a homage to a classroom at CalArts, the alma mater of Pixar/Disney executive John Lasseter and director Brad Bird, among others. Bird was the first to use the A113 Easter egg, on a car license plate in an animated segment entitled \"Family Dog\" in a 1987 episode of the television series \"Amazing Stories\". \n\nDescribed as \"Pixar's good luck charm\" by John Lasseter, actor John Ratzenberger has played a role in every Pixar feature to date, including a few not produced by Pixar.\n\n\nA yellow ball with a blue stripe and a red star, which was first shown in the short \"Luxo, Jr.\", has been shown in the Pixar logo sequence and several Pixar feature films and shorts, most prominently in the \"Toy Story\" franchise.\n\nPizza Planet is a fictional pizza restaurant that appears in \"Toy Story\". In the film, it is a large, sci-fi-themed restaurant with arcade games including robot guards at the entrance. The company runs a fleet of derelict Toyota Hilux pickup trucks (as evidenced by the inscription on the tailgate; it is a Toyota inscription with the first and last two letters, \"TO\" and \"TA\", worn off so it simply appears as \"YO\") with a rocket on the roof featuring the restaurant's logo, as seen in \"Toy Story\", \"Toy Story 2\" and \"Toy Story 3\" (though in \"Toy Story 2\", the truck model is called a \"Gyoza\" as seen on the owner's manual). There is a Pizza Planet reference in every Pixar feature film to date except for the film \"The Incredibles\". Lee Unkrich has said that there is no Pizza Planet truck anywhere in \"The Incredibles\".\n\nPizza Planet restaurants at Walt Disney World's Disney's Hollywood Studios and Disneyland Paris are named after the site in the film and are designed to resemble it.\n\nTo avoid overt product placement in Pixar films, a series of fictional companies are used as placeholders. Some appear only in one franchise (such as fictional NASCAR sponsors in Cars) but others serve as recurring themes.\n\nBuy n Large is a fictional mega-corporation that first appeared in \"WALL-E\" as the entity which controlled all economic and government services on the future Earth.\n\nDinoco is a fictional oil company that first appeared in \"Toy Story\" as a small gas station. It plays a central role as a key race car sponsor in \"Cars\", and made a small cameo in \"WALL-E\". The company's logo is a dinosaur, but with an \"Apatosaurus\" in \"Toy Story\" and a \"Tyrannosaurus\" in \"Cars\" (a reference to Sinclair Oil, which uses a similar dinosaur logo).\n\nThese Pixar films contain the following references to \"Toy Story\", \"Toy Story 2\", or \"Toy Story 3\":\n\nThese Pixar films and shorts contain the following references to \"A Bug's Life\":\n\nThese Pixar films contain the following references to \"Monsters, Inc.\" or \"Monsters University\":\n\nThese Pixar films and shorts contain the following references to \"Finding Nemo\":\n\nThese Pixar films contain the following references to \"The Incredibles\":\n\nThese films and shorts contain references to \"Cars\", \"Cars 2\" or \"Cars 3\":\n\nThese films contain references to the film \"Ratatouille\":\n\nThese films contain references to the film \"WALL-E\":\n\n\nThese films contain references to the film \"Up:\n\nThese films or shorts contain references to the film \"Brave\".\n\nThese films contain references to \"The Adventures of André and Wally B.\":\n\nThese films contain references to \"Red's Dream\".\n\nThese films contain references to \"Luxo, Jr.\":\n\nThese films contain references to \"Tin Toy\":\n\nThese films contain references to \"Knick Knack\":\n\nThe following Pixar films reference \"For the Birds\":\n\nThese Pixar films contain the following references to \"Geri's Game\":\n\nThese Pixar films contain the following references to \"Boundin'\":\n\n\nThese Pixar films contain the following references to Apple Inc..\n\nThese Pixar films contain cameo appearances by Pixar employees.\n\nThese Pixar films contain references to Pixar employees.\n\n\nThese Pixar films contain the following references to an assortment of other things.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42060919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42060919", "title": "List of hotels in Puerto Rico", "text": "List of hotels in Puerto Rico\n\nThis is a list of notable hotels in Puerto Rico.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "300397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=300397", "title": "List of municipalities in Balearic Islands", "text": "List of municipalities in Balearic Islands\n\nThis is a list of the municipalities in the province and autonomous community of the Balearic Islands, Spain.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1281517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1281517", "title": "List of settlements in the Falkland Islands", "text": "List of settlements in the Falkland Islands\n\nThis is a list of towns and settlements on the Falkland Islands.\n\nList of settlements by name, population, and island it is located on (As of 15/04/2012):\n\n"}
{"id": "2943285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2943285", "title": "List of songs about Manchester", "text": "List of songs about Manchester\n\nList of songs about Manchester, United Kingdom.\n"}
{"id": "4380648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4380648", "title": "Local service district (New Brunswick)", "text": "Local service district (New Brunswick)\n\nA local service district (LSD) is an unincorporated unit of local governance in the Canadian province of New Brunswick; LSDs are defined by Regulation 84-168, the \"Local Service Districts Regulation - Municipalities Act\". In 2017 the Municipalities Act was replaced by the Local Governance Act, which continued Regulation 84-168.\n\nThe Royal Commission on Finance and Municipal Taxation was established in 1962 by Order-in-Council 62-185, tasked with performing a comprehensive review of the province's municipal structures and taxation. The Commission's report, released in 1964, recommended sweeping changes in the provinces municipal structure, including abolishing the incorporated county municipalities that governed rural areas of the province. Those rural areas that provided one or two services normally provided by municipalities, primarily fire protection, would be served by local service districts.\n\nThe Municipalities Act of 1966 enacted the changes recommended by the Byrne Commission. Local service districts were established on November 23 by Order-in-Council.\n\n92 local service districts were established in 11 of the province's 15 counties. Gloucester (which today has more local service districts than any two other counties combined), Charlotte, Kings, and Northumberland Counties did not have any local service districts. Of the 92 LSDs, 86 were civil parishes; 81 provided only fire protection, while six added street lighting in at least part of the LSD, four added community services and recreational facilities, and one added garbage collection.\n\nAs of 1 July 2017 there are 237 LSDs. There have been an additional seventy-eight former LSDs, most of which were incorporated as, or absorbed by, municipalities. The number of concurrent LSDs peaked at 291 in 1991 and has been declining since 1995.\n\nThere are 133 Parish LSDs (plus fifteen former parish LSDs), which range from entire parishes, such as Cardwell, to areas left over after large numbers of LSDs have been separated, such as Shippegan. The parishes of Gagetown, Grand Manan, Hampstead have never had parish LSDs; Huskisson, while unstated in Regulation 84-168, is part of LSD the parish of Harcourt.\n\nThe remaining 104 LSDs (plus 62 former) vary in nature – three are school districts dating from the original creation of LSDs in 1966, one is an island, one a pair of islands, several are centralised communities like Elgin, most are decentralised communities or groups of communities (which can approach the size of parishes), and two resulted from mergers in 1996 (Chaleur) and 1999 (Allardville) that included three (two parish) and two (one parish) LSDs respectively.\n\nThe number of LSDs is sometimes misstated, due to the existence of three units that can be confused with official LSDs: areas with increased or decreased services, Taxing Authorities, and Census Designated Places that are called Local Service Districts.\n\n\nProperty owners are taxed a LSD rate arranged by the Province's Local Service District Manager to pay for services. These assessments may be for facilities situated in the LSD, services operated locally or purchased from a neighbouring municipality, or shared costs of operation of facilities in a municipality. LSDs that become rural communities are subject to LSD taxes for services provided by the province.\n\nThe base rate, which includes fire protection, is $0.6315 per $100 of assessed value for owner-occupied residential properties. Non owner-occupied residential properties pay provincial tax as well as any taxes for services beyond fire protection; business pay 50% more than the total rate for non owner-occupied residential properties.\n\nOriginally all services within LSDs were voluntary, administered by area citizens and paid for by local property taxes. The provincial government has gradually taken over the administration of some services at the provincial level, with regional service commissions taking over many others. Regulation 84-168 has not kept up with these changes in administration, updating listed services only when boundary changes or addition of new services have taken place. Fire protection and recreational facilities are often paid for through cost-sharing with municipalities or other LSDs.\n\nServices within LSDs can be grouped into two categories - mandatory and voluntary services. Mandatory services are:\nVoluntary services include, but are not limited to:\n\nLocal service districts have always had the ability to elect advisory committees; the requirements for establishing such committees have changed since 1966.\n\nCurrently 25 or more residents who are qualified to vote under the Elections Act may petition the Minister of Local Government to call a meeting for the purpose of electing a committee; a simple majority vote at such a meeting is sufficient to establish a committee. There is no minimum number of voters required to elect or re-elect an advisory committee. LSD advisory committees are elected for a term of four years according to the government's cycle for general municipal elections. Elections may be held outside municipal election years if replacing a dissolved committee or establishing a committee in an LSD that previously lacked one. LSDAC elections are handled by the Department of Local Government, not Elections New Brunswick; because of this, elections do not require normal polling hours, nor do they require widespread advertising or a centralised website that lists them, often resulting in low voter turnout.\n\nLSDs may establish an advisory committee of three to five members if a public meeting with sufficient eligible voters is held. LSD advisory committees are disbanded if their membership falls below three. The Committees have no legislative or taxing authority, but work with the Local Service District Manager to administer services and set local budgets.\n\nAdvisory committee presidents are asked to participate on regional service commission boards. A certain amount of consulting and service contracts are awarded as a result of LSD service activity, which provide economic activities.\n\nThe provincial government has been encouraging local service districts to participate in reforming government administration in rural areas.<! citation will follow> The rural community, an incorporated but non-municipal body, has been the most common model, although incorporation into existing municipalities has also been pursued. Since 2006 a total of 24 LSDs have become incorporated into rural communities or municipalities:\n\nThere have been dozens of other projects that are still in progress or have failed for various reasons, some reaching the plebiscite stage, many simply lacking local support to proceed to asking the government to conduct a feasibility study.\n\nThere have been at least two attempts by municipalities in Millville and Norton to devolve to local service districts, both rejected by the provincial government.\n\nThe term 'Democratic deficit' was used by Jean-Guy Finn (Local Governance Task Force, 2010) to describe an \"unbalanced local government\", as in: many residents without representation at a local level (35% of population and 90% of the provincial territory) and limited competition for elected offices (1/3 of municipal councils with less than 2000 pop acclaimed) \n\nThe boundary descriptions of LSDs have not sometimes suffered from ambiguous language or lack of update of existing LSD boundaries when a new entity was created. Originally most LSDs were defined by parish boundaries or grant lines; in the 1980s provincial property identity numbers began replacing grant lines; since the mid-2000s maps showing property lines have been the norm. All methods have led to problems:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22860458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22860458", "title": "Malaysian Remote Sensing Agency", "text": "Malaysian Remote Sensing Agency\n\nBackground\n\nThe Malaysian Remote Sensing Agency (MRSA) (Malay: Agensi Remote Sensing Malaysia (ARSM)) is a department responsible for remote sensing under the Ministry of Science, Technology and Innovation (MOSTI), Malaysia. MRSA was established in August 1988 as a Research and Development centre in remote sensing and related technologies. Formerly known as Malaysian Centre of Remote Sensing (MACRES) or Pusat Remote Sensing Negara, MRSA was fully operational by January 1990. MRSA started with a team of 17 professionals and supporting staff, by 2018, the total post has been increased to 226 professionals.\n\nFacilities\n\nMRSA is equipped with computer system for satellite data image processing, geographic information system and global positioning system, a satellite ground receiving station for real time data acquisition, microwave remote sensing laboratory (anechoic chamber, mobile scatterometer), remote sensing digital photographic laboratory and remote sensing data archiving and retrieval centre.\n\nOrganisation Structure\n\n\nMajor Programme\n\nThere are two main programme in MRSA: Research and Development (R&D) and Technical Services\n\nThe R&D programme involves research on remote sensing, GIS and related technology applications in the field of agriculture, natural resources, environment, disaster, national security as well as management of land development. It also focuses on spatial data analysis and GIS modelling, computer system and sensors and provide technical advice on the use of remote sensing technology in the country.\n\nTechnical Services is focused on maintaining the operation and services or MRSA as a one stop centre in remote sensing technology.\n\nServices offered by MRSA\n\nMRSA accepts application for satellite remote sensing data for 3 categories:\n\n\nFurther information and application forms can be downloaded here.\n\nThe Remote Sensing Data Web Catalogue can be accessed here.\n\nExternal links\n"}
{"id": "22542240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22542240", "title": "Mont Sokbaro", "text": "Mont Sokbaro\n\nMont Sokbaro is cited by some sources as the highest point of Benin, with an altitude of . It is located on the border between Benin and Togo, part of the Atakora Mountains. Other locations such as 2.5 km southeast of Kotoponga at 10-17-22N 1-32-38E have SRTM readings of 670 meters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35802272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35802272", "title": "Mystic Mountain", "text": "Mystic Mountain\n\nMystic Mountain is a photograph and a term for a region in the Carina Nebula imaged by the Hubble Space Telescope. The view was captured by the then-new Wide Field Camera 3, though the region was also viewed by the previous generation instrument. The new view celebrated the telescope's 20th anniversary of being in space in 2010. Mystic Mountain contains multiple Herbig-Haro objects where nascent stars are firing off jets of gas which interact with surrounding clouds of gas and dust.\n\nThis region is about away from Earth. The pillar measures around .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4630959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4630959", "title": "Māori migration canoes", "text": "Māori migration canoes\n\nVarious Māori traditions recount how their ancestors set out from their homeland in great ocean-going canoes (or waka). Some of these traditions name a mythical homeland called Hawaiki.\n\nAmong these is the story of Kupe, who had eloped with Kuramarotini, the wife of Hoturapa, the owner of the great canoe \"Matahourua\", whom Kupe had murdered. To escape punishment for the murder, Kupe and Kura fled in Matahourua and discovered a land he called Aotearoa ('long-white-cloud'). He explored its coast and killed the sea monster Te Wheke-a-Muturangi, finally returning to his home to spread news of his newly discovered land.\n\nOther stories of various tribes report migrations to escape famine, over-population, and warfare. These were made in legendary canoes, the best known of which are \"Aotea\", \"Te Arawa\", \"Kurahaupō\", \"Mātaatua\", \"Tainui\", \"Tākitimu\", and \"Tokomaru\". Various traditions name numerous other canoes. Some, including the \"Āraiteuru\", are well known; others including the \"Kirauta\" and the sacred \"Arahura\" and \"Mahangaatuamatua\" are little known. Rather than arriving in a single fleet, the journeys may have occurred over several centuries.\n\nPercy Smith believed that while the Polynesian traditions may have been flawed in detail, they preserved the threads of truth which could be recovered using a method already well established for Hawaiian traditions by Abraham Fornander (1878–1885). This method involved seeking out common elements of tradition from different sources, and aligning these to genealogies to give a time frame for the events. Fornander, Smith, and others used this method to reconstruct the migrations of the Polynesians, tracing them back to a supposed ancient homeland in India.\nSmith used the Fornander method, combining disparate traditions from various parts of New Zealand and other parts of Polynesia, to derive the 'Great Fleet' hypothesis. Through an examination of the genealogies of various tribes, he came up with a set of precise dates for the Great Fleet and the explorers that he and others posited as having paved the way for the fleet.\n\nAccording to \"\", \"Smith’s account went as follows. In 750 AD the Polynesian explorer Kupe discovered an uninhabited New Zealand. Then in 1000–1100 AD, the Polynesian explorers Toi and Whātonga visited New Zealand, and found it inhabited by a primitive, nomadic people known as the Moriori. Finally, in 1350 AD a ‘great fleet’ of seven canoes – \"Aotea\", \"Kurahaupō\", \"Mātaatua\", \"Tainui\", \"Tokomaru\", \"Te Arawa\" and \"Tākitimu\" – all departed from the Tahitian region at the same time, bringing the people now known as Māori to New Zealand. These were advanced, warlike, agricultural tribes who destroyed the Moriori.\"\n\nThe great fleet scenario won general acceptance, its adherents including the respected Māori ethnologist Te Rangi Hīroa (Sir Peter Buck), and was taught in New Zealand schools. However it was effectively demolished during the 1960s by the ethnologist David Simmons, who showed that it derived from an incomplete and indiscriminate study of Māori tradition as recorded in the 19th Century. Simmons also suggests that some of these 'migrations' may actually have been journeys within New Zealand.\n\nHistorian Rāwiri Taonui, writing in 2006 for the website \"Te Ara – the Encyclopedia of New Zealand\", accuses Smith of falsification: \"The Great Fleet theory was the result of a collaboration between the 19th-century ethnologist S. Percy Smith and the Māori scholar Hoani Te Whatahoro Jury. Smith obtained details about places in Rarotonga and Tahiti during a visit in 1897, while Jury provided information about Māori canoes in New Zealand. Smith then ‘cut and pasted’ his material, combining several oral traditions into new ones. Their joint work was published in two books, in which Jury and Smith falsely attributed much of their information to two 19th-century tohunga, Moihi Te Mātorohanga and Nēpia Pōhūhū\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1108124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1108124", "title": "Old Man of Hoy", "text": "Old Man of Hoy\n\nThe Old Man of Hoy is a 449-foot (137m) sea stack on the island of Hoy, part of the Orkney archipelago off the north coast of Scotland. Formed from Old Red Sandstone, it is one of the tallest stacks in Britain. The Old Man is popular with climbers, and was first climbed in 1966. Created by the erosion of a cliff through hydraulic action some time after 1750, the stack is no more than a few hundred years old, but may soon collapse into the sea.\n\nThe Old Man stands close to Rackwick Bay on the west coast of the island of Hoy, in the Orkney Islands, Scotland, and can be seen from the Scrabster to Stromness ferry. From certain angles it is said to resemble a human figure.\n\nWinds are faster than for nearly a third of the time, and gales occur on average for 29 days a year. Combined with the depth of the sea, which quickly falls to , high-energy waves on the western side of Hoy lead to rapid erosion of the coast.\n\nThe Old Man of Hoy is a red sandstone stack, perched on a plinth of basalt rock, and one of the tallest sea stacks in Britain. It is separated from the mainland by a 60-metre (200 ft) chasm strewn with debris, and has nearly vertical sides with a top just a few metres wide. The rock is composed of layers of soft, sandy and pebbly sandstone and harder flagstones of Old Red Sandstone, giving the sides a notched and slab-like profile.\n\nThe Old Man is probably less than 250 years old, and may soon collapse. The stack is not mentioned in the Orkneyinga saga, written 1230, and on the Blaeu map of 1600, a headland exists at the point where the Old Man is now. The McKenzie map of Hoy of 1750 similarly shows a headland but no stack, but by 1819 the Old Man had been separated from the mainland. William Daniell sketched the sea stack at this time as a wider column with a smaller top section and an arch at the base, from which it derived its name.\n\nSometime in the early nineteenth century, a storm washed away one of the legs leaving it much as it is today, although erosion continues. By 1992 a 40-metre (130 ft) crack had appeared in the top of the south face, leaving a large overhanging section that will eventually collapse.\n\nThe stack was first climbed by mountaineers Chris Bonington, Rusty Baillie and Tom Patey in 1966. From 8–9 July 1967, an ascent featured in \"The Great Climb\", a live BBC three-night outside broadcast, which had around 15 million viewers. This featured three pairs of climbers: Bonington and Patey repeated their original route, whilst two new lines were climbed by Joe Brown and Ian McNaught-Davis and by Pete Crew and Dougal Haston.\n\nRed Szell became the first blind person to climb the Old Man, despite suffering from retinitis pigmentosa that left him with 5% vision. With assistance from Martin Moran and Nick Carter, he scaled the stack in 2013.\n\nThe youngest person to climb the Old Man is Edward Mills, who was 8 years old when he completed the climb in 4 hours 55 minutes on 9 June 2018, to raise money for the charity \"Climbers Against Cancer\" as his mother had terminal breast cancer. He was accompanied by his trainers, Ben West and Cailean Harker.\n\nThere are seven routes up the stack, the most commonly used of which is the original landward facing E1 (Extremely Severe). A log book in a Tupperware container is buried in a cairn on the summit, as an ascensionists' record. As many as fifty ascents of the stack are made each year.\n\nRoger Holmes, Gus Hutchinson-Brown and Tim Emmett made the first BASE jump from the stack on 14 May 2008. Hutchinson-Brown died 11 days later during a jump in Switzerland.\n\nOn 10 July 2017, Alexander Schulz completed a highline walk to and from the summit, at 137m above the sea on a line 180m long.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "360033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=360033", "title": "Ordnance Survey National Grid", "text": "Ordnance Survey National Grid\n\nThe Ordnance Survey National Grid reference system is a system of geographic grid references used in Great Britain, distinct from latitude and longitude. It is often called British National Grid (BNG).\n\nThe Ordnance Survey (OS) devised the national grid reference system, and it is heavily used in their survey data, and in maps based on those surveys, whether published by the Ordnance Survey or by commercial map producers. Grid references are also commonly quoted in other publications and data sources, such as guide books and government planning documents.\n\nA number of different systems exist that can provide grid references for locations within the British Isles: this article describes the system created solely for Great Britain and its outlying islands (including the Isle of Man); the Irish grid reference system was a similar system created by the Ordnance Survey of Ireland and the Ordnance Survey of Northern Ireland for the island of Ireland. The Universal Transverse Mercator coordinate system (UTM) is used to provide grid references for worldwide locations, and this is the system commonly used for the Channel Islands and Ireland (since 2001). European-wide agencies also use UTM when mapping locations, or may use the Military Grid Reference System (MGRS) system, or variants of it.\n\nThe grid is based on the \"OSGB36\" datum (Ordnance Survey Great Britain 1936, based on the Airy 1830 ellipsoid), and was introduced after the retriangulation of 1936–1962. It replaced the previously used Cassini Grid which, up to the end of World War Two, had been issued only to the military.\n\nThe Airy ellipsoid is a regional best fit for Britain; more modern mapping tends to use the GRS80 ellipsoid used by the Global Positioning System (the Airy ellipsoid assumes the Earth to be about 1 km smaller in diameter than the GRS80 ellipsoid, and to be slightly less flattened). The British maps adopt a Transverse Mercator projection with an origin (the \"true\" origin) at 49° N, 2° W (an offshore point in the English Channel which lies between the island of Jersey and the French port of St. Malo). Over the Airy ellipsoid a straight line grid, the National Grid, is placed with a new false origin to eliminate negative numbers, creating a 700 km by 1300 km grid. This false origin is located south-west of the Isles of Scilly. The distortion created between the OS grid and the projection is countered by a scale factor in the longitude to create two lines of longitude with zero distortion rather than one. Grid north and true north are only aligned on the 400 km easting of the grid which is 2° W (OSGB36) and approx. (WGS 84).\n\nOSGB 36 was also used by Admiralty nautical charts until 2000 after which WGS 84 has been used.\n\nA geodetic transformation between OSGB 36 and other terrestrial reference systems (like ITRF2000, ETRS89, or WGS 84) can become quite tedious if attempted manually. The most common transformation is called the Helmert datum transformation, which results in a typical 7 m error from true. The definitive transformation from ETRS89 that is published by the OSGB is called the National Grid Transformation OSTN15. This models the detailed distortions in the 1936–1962 retriangulation, and achieves backwards compatibility in grid coordinates to sub-metre accuracy.\n\nThe difference between the coordinates on different datums varies from place to place. The longitude and latitude positions on OSGB 36 are the same as for WGS 84 at a point in the Atlantic Ocean well to the west of Great Britain. In Cornwall, the WGS 84 longitude \"lines\" are about 70 metres east of their OSGB 36 equivalents, this value rising gradually to about 120 m east on the east coast of East Anglia. The WGS 84 latitude \"lines\" are about 70 m south of the OSGB 36 lines in South Cornwall, the difference diminishing to zero in the Scottish Borders, and then increasing to about 50 m north on the north coast of Scotland. (If the \"lines\" are further \"east\", then the longitude \"value\" of any given point is further \"west\". Similarly, if the lines are further south, the values will give the point a more northerly latitude.) The smallest datum shift is on the west coast of Scotland and the greatest in Kent.\n\nThese two datums are not both in general use in any one place, but for a point in the English Channel halfway between Dover and Calais, the ED50 longitude lines are about 20 m east of the OSGB36 equivalents, and the ED50 latitude lines are about 150 m south of the OSGB36 ones.\n\nFor the first letter, the grid is divided into squares of size 500 km by 500 km, outlined in dark grey on the map to the right. There are four of these which contain significant land area within Great Britain: S, T, N and H. The O square contains a tiny area of North Yorkshire, almost all of which lies below mean high tide.\n\nFor the second letter, each 500 km square is subdivided into 25 squares of size 100 km by 100 km, each with a letter code from A to Z (omitting I) starting with A in the north-west corner to Z in the south-east corner. These squares are outlined in light grey on the map, with those containing land lettered. The central (2° W) meridian is shown in red.\n\nWithin each square, \"eastings\" and \"northings\" from the south west corner of the square are given numerically. For example, NH0325 means a 1 km square whose south-west corner is 3 km east and 25 km north from the south-west corner of square NH. A location can be indicated to varying resolutions numerically, usually from two digits in each coordinate (for a 1 km square) through to five (for a 1 m square); in each case the first half of the digits is for the first coordinate and the second half for the other. The most common usage is the \"six figure grid reference\", employing three digits in each coordinate to determine a 100 m square. For example, the grid reference of the 100 m square containing the summit of Ben Nevis is . (Grid references may be written with or without spaces; e.g., also NN166712.) NN has an easting of 200 km and northing of 700 km, so the OSGB36 National Grid location for Ben Nevis is at 216600, 771200.\n\nGrid references may also be quoted as a pair of numbers: eastings then northings in metres, measured from the southwest corner of the SV square. Note that 14 digits may be required for locations in Orkney and further north. For example, the grid reference for Sullom Voe oil terminal in the Shetland Islands may be given as or .\n\nAnother, distinct, form of all-numeric grid reference is an abbreviated alphanumeric reference where the letters are simply omitted, e.g. 166712 for the summit of Ben Nevis. Unlike the numeric references described above, this abbreviated grid reference is incomplete; it gives the location relative to an OS 100×100 km square, but does not specify which square. It is often used informally when the context identifies the OS 2-letter square. For example, within the context of a location known to be on OS Landranger sheet 41 (which extends from NN000500 in the south-west to NN400900 in the north-east) the abbreviated grid reference 166712 is equivalent to NN166712. If working with more than one Landranger sheet, this may also be given as 41/166712.\n\nAlternatively, sometimes numbers instead of the two-letter combinations are used for the 100×100 km squares. The numbering follows a grid index where the tens denote the progress from West to East and the units from South to North. In the north of Scotland, the numbering is modified: the 100 km square to the north of 39 is numbered N30; the square to the north of 49 is N40, etc.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40320558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40320558", "title": "Selma Barkham", "text": "Selma Barkham\n\nSelma Barkham, OC, (née Huxley; born 1927, London, England) is a Canadian historian and geographer of international standing in the fields of the maritime history of Canada and of the Basque Country.\nIn 1972, as an independent researcher, she moved to the Basque Country to do archival research on an aspect of Canadian and Basque history about which very little was known: Basque fisheries in the old Terra Nova, today some 2,000 kilometres of the Atlantic coast of Canada, in the 16th and 17th centuries. \nThe research she carried out during the following years, mostly in Basque, Spanish and Portuguese archives, allowed her to make important archival, historical and archaeological discoveries. She found thousands of documents with which she was able to reconstruct most elements of a largely unknown chapter of the history of Canada and of the Basque Country: the Basque cod and whale fisheries in Terra Nova especially in the 16th century. She discovered the existence of a 16th-century Basque whaling industry in southern Labrador and adjacent Quebec, their whaling ports, archaeological remains of their bases, as well as the presence of Basque galleons sunk in those ports, among them the San Juan (1565).\nIn 1981, she was awarded the Order of Canada for her pioneering work and for having made \"one of the most outstanding contributions, in recent years, to the story of this nation\". One of those whaling ports found by her, present-day Red Bay, Labrador, has been declared a National Historic Site of Canada (1979) and a World Heritage Site by UNESCO (June 2013).\n\nSelma Huxley was born in England in the midst of a family of intellectuals and scientists. Her father, Michael Huxley, a diplomat and the founder-editor of the Geographical Magazine, whose cousins included the writer Aldous Huxley and his brother the biologist Sir Julian Huxley (first Director General of UNESCO), was a grandson of the eminent English scientist Thomas Henry Huxley known as \"Darwin's Bulldog\". Her mother, Ottilie de Lotbinière Mills, was a granddaughter of the Canadian politician and conservationist Sir Henri-Gustave Joly de Lotbinière, who was a Cabinet minister in the Government of Canada and Premier of the province of Québec.\nShe spent her teenage years during the Second World War in England and the United States. When the war ended she studied at the universities of Paris and London.\n\nIn 1950 she decided to spend some time visiting relatives in Canada where she settled in Montreal, working for the Yellow Pages, as a teacher and finally as the Librarian of the Arctic Institute of North America at the University of McGill.\nThere, in 1953, she met her future husband a young English architect, Brian Barkham, who was deeply fond of the Basque Country. In the summer of 1950, he had left England on motorcycle, with a fellow student of the University of London, John Stoddart, to study the rural architecture of Andalucía in southern Spain. But, due to various circumstances, he had ended up in the Basque Country studying its caseríos (farmhouses), which would be the subject of his degree thesis. He and his companion made good friends and fell in love with that region, with the result that they returned to the Basque Country in the summer of 1951.\nHuxley could not have known then that that meeting was going to change her life so much, nor that in the future her own research on the Basque Country would lead her to make discoveries of importance to Basque and Canadian history. In 1954, the newly married couple moved to Ottawa, the capital of Canada, where Barkham set up an architecture practice and they started a family (Children: Thomas, Oriana, Michael and Serena). Two years later, they visited the Basque Country where a friend, the priest Don Pío de Montoya, spoke to them about the old Basque presence in Canada.\n\nIn 1964, aged 37, Selma Barkham was left a widow with four children under the age of ten and had to find a way of making a living. She worked mostly for the National Historic Sites as a historian on various projects. These included the restoration of Louisbourg, the 18th-century French fortress and commercial-fishing port on Cape Breton Island on the Atlantic coast of Canada.\nDoing that she became interested in European fishing voyages to that region in previous centuries, especially from the Basque Country with which she had personal ties. She developed a plan to research, in archives of Spain and France, Basque fisheries in Canada in the 16th and 17th centuries, thereby combining her personal and intellectual interests. She knew that for that she would have to learn Spanish, she already spoke English and French.\nAt that time, the late 1960s, it was recognized that there had been Basque cod fishing and whaling expeditions to Terra Nova in those centuries, but there was very little documentary information about them.\n\nIn 1969, she decided to move to Mexico with her children by car, where she supported her family as an English teacher. Three years later, in 1972, she applied from there for a grant from the Canada Council to begin her research. Following that, she put her family and belongings aboard a cargo ship bound for the Basque port of Bilbao.\nHowever, she would not begin that research backed and financed by an institution, but rather on her own, with little means and against expectations. Shortly after her arrival in Bilbao, she received the news that her grant application had been turned down. It was thought that that work had already been done.\nBarkham found herself without a job, with hardly any money and without clear perspectives. Those were difficult times but she did not give up. She believed that the archives could contain valuable information. During the first year she taught English and studied Spanish paleography in the evening at the University of Deusto. She received a thousand dollars from an anonymous Canadian donor, which allowed her to pay the rent, and she began making her first finds of importance in archives.\nOn the basis of these, in 1973 she managed to negotiate a contract with the Public Archives of Canada to locate in Spain documentation of interest to Canada. But the contract, which would be renewable, was part-time and there was not a budget for a telephone or car. The rest of the time she pursued her own research. That year she moved to the inland Basque town of Oñati, realizing the richness of the virtually unused Archivo Histórico de Protocolos de Gipuzkoa located there, where she was to live for twenty years.\n\nOver the years she researched in some 40 archives - parish, municipal, notarial, judicial, etc. - in places such as Tolosa, Bilbao, Burgos, Valladolid, Madrid, Seville and Lisbon. Little by little she discovered thousands of manuscripts from the 16th and 17th centuries, mostly in old Spanish, relating to the Basque fisheries in Terra Nova: including insurance policies, lawsuits, wills, charter-parties, crew agreements and lists of provisions and equipment. She also gradually found thousands of manuscripts to do with the other sectors of the Basque maritime economy such as shipbuilding, trade and fishing in Europe.\nThis detailed documentation allowed her to establish that the Basques had carried out, in different specific areas of Atlantic Canada, a prosperous cod fishery as well as a major whale fishery on an industrial scale during the 1500s. Furthering her analysis of these documents, she was able to reconstruct most aspects of those Basque fisheries particularly in the 16th century: their scale and evolution, the organization and financing of the expeditions, types of ships, composition of crews, routes and destinations, fishing and whaling seasons, shipwrecks, the sailors' life, work and death, their food and clothing, contact with Amerindians, markets, etc.\n\nRegarding the destination of the ships until the end of that century the manuscripts showed Barkham that, in contrast to the cod fishing vessels, the whalers went to about twelve ports of an area of Terra Nova that the Basques called the \"Gran Baya\". She studied other written sources, such as sailing directions, and maps and charts of the time in places like the national libraries of England and France.\nThis enabled her to determine that the codfishers mostly used ports of what is now the south-east of the island of Newfoundland. In relation to the whaling activity she concluded that the \"Gran Baya\" corresponded to the present-day Strait of Belle Isle, which separates Newfoundland from Labrador, and that the old whaling ports, mentioned in the archival documents, were situated along the north shore of the Strait of Belle Isle, or the south coast of Labrador and a small section of the Quebec coast.\nCrucially, she managed to identify the location of most of the individual whaling ports and their modern names. In this way, for example, Gradun became present-day Middle Bay, Puerto Bretón became Carrol Cove and Buttes, the most important port, became Red Bay. Therefore, she had not only made known the existence of a 16th-century Basque whaling industry in Labrador and adjacent Quebec but also their whaling ports.\nThe archives revealed three unique manuscripts from that century which had been written on that very coast: a sale of chalupas (whaleboats) (1572) and two wills (1577 and 1584). These were the oldest original civil documents written in Canada.\n\nBarkham knew from the documentation that in those ports there had to be remains of the Basque whaling presence, both on land and under water, and she wanted to find them. Backed by her research so far, she organized an archaeological survey expedition to southern Labrador in the summer of 1977, with a grant from the Royal Canadian Geographical Society. She explored several harbours along the coast and discovered archaeological remains of Basque whaling bases, including at Red Bay, thereby confirming her historical work in Europe. The expedition was joined by, among others, archaeologist James Tuck of Memorial University of Newfoundland.\nAmong the manuscripts found by the researcher are some that refer to the sinking of several 16th-century Basque whaling galleons in specific ports of the \"Gran Baya\", whose modern names she had identified on the Labrador coast: one from Pasaia (1563) in Los Hornos (Pinware Bay), the Madalena from Mutriku (1565) and the María from San Sebastián (1572) in Chateo (Chateau Bay/Henley Harbour), and the San Juan from Pasaia (1565) and the Madalena from Bordeaux (1574/75) in Buttes (Red Bay).\nThe year after Barkham's expedition, in 1978, a team of underwater archaeologists from Parks Canada led by Robert Grenier, basing themselves on the historian's discoveries and on the detailed information she had provided them, conducted surveys at Red Bay and Chateau Bay. They located a wreck in both harbours which turned out to be 16th-century whaling ships. The press conference announcing these finds was held at the Public Archives of Canada.\nFrom then on, Barkham continued her historico-geographical work parallel to the land and underwater excavations, under Tuck and Grenier respectively, at Red Bay which was declared a National Historic Site of Canada in 1979.\nIn 1982, she organized another expedition, this time by sailing boat from Cape Breton Island to southern Labrador and the Quebec North Shore. She identified 17th-century Basque cod fishing locations on the west coast of Newfoundland while, at Middle Bay and Five Leagues Harbour on the Quebec coast, she found further archaeological remains of the 16th-century Basque whaling presence.\n\nThis historian has presented the results of her research at numerous conferences and has published widely. Her most complete publication is: S. Huxley [Barkham], ed., \"Los vascos en el marco Atlántico Norte. Siglos XVI y XVII [The Basques in the North Atlantic in the 16th and 17th Centuries]\" (San Sebastián: Etor Editorial, 1987). Her work has featured extensively in the media, magazines, books and documentaries. In July 1985 it was, together with the archaeology at Red Bay, cover article of \"National Geographic magazine\". \nShe has received a number of national and international honours and awards. The press release notifying her appointment to the Order of Canada (1981) refers to the fact that, besides her discoveries in Labrador, she \"uncovered a period (1540-1600) in Canadian history about which almost nothing was known\". In 1993, Memorial University of Newfoundland awarded her an Honorary Doctorate for having \"sparked a wholesale revision of 16th-century Canadian history\". In 2009, she was elected Fellow of the international organization Wings WorldQuest, which \"recognizes and supports visionary women who are advancing scientific inquiry and environmental conservation\". \nIn June 2013, the Red Bay National Historic Site was declared a World Heritage Site by UNESCO. This declaration reflects the importance of the contribution made by Barkham to the history of the Basque Country and of Canada.\n\n\nAmong her principal publications are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43968942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43968942", "title": "Shanghai Lalas", "text": "Shanghai Lalas\n\nShanghai Lalas: Female Tongzhi Communities and Politics in Urban China is a 2012 book written by Lucetta Kam Yip-lo () and published by the Hong Kong University Press. It is Volume 1 of the Queer Asia series.\n\nThe book discusses \"lalas\" (), including female bisexuals, lesbians, and trans women, in Shanghai. From 2005 to 2011, as part of her research, Lucetta Kam interviewed 25 \"lalas\". Most of the women were in their 20s and originated from urban areas.\n\nShanghai-born Lucetta Kam is an assistant professor at Hong Kong Baptist University (HKBU), and she is involved in LGBT organizations in Hong Kong, where she was raised. Lucetta Kam herself is a lesbian, and Joanna Chiu of the \"South China Morning Post\" wrote that Lucetta Kam \"needed to work to maintain her distance from her subjects\".\n\nJoanna Chiu wrote that the book was \"a balanced, richly insightful and succinctly argued study\" that \"reveals as many truths about the lives of urban lalas as about the shifting forms of social control - and strategies of social transformation - in Chinese society today.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57881315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57881315", "title": "The Indian Story of an Author", "text": "The Indian Story of an Author\n\nThe Indian Story of an Author is a creative nonfiction book written by Gaurav Sharma.\n\nThe first edition of \"The Indian Story of an Author\" was published in July 2018 by Think Tank Books. \n\nThe book was created out of the frustration of the author when he pitched one of his manuscripts (\"God of the Sullied\") to the publishers in India only to face their rejections on unclear grounds. It only has one brief chapter that summarises the irony of getting published in India with manuscripts other than romance and chick-lit genres. The book is intentionally left blank to express the exasperation of its author on behalf of all other aspiring writers. Sharma's 100 pager book is blank after 13 printed pages, connoting similar trend as seen during the Indian emergency declared by the then prime minister Indira Gandhi when many journalists including Ramnath Goenka left the editorial page of their respective newspapers blank, protesting against the censorship imposed on the press during that time. The Indian Story of an Author was well received in the media and is seen as a symbolic message from the author to all the aspiring writers about the complications of Indian publishing system.\n"}
{"id": "25580107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25580107", "title": "Vaclav Smil", "text": "Vaclav Smil\n\nVáclav Smil (born 9 December 1943) is a Czech-Canadian scientist and policy analyst. He is Distinguished Professor Emeritus in the Faculty of Environment at the University of Manitoba in Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada. His interdisciplinary research interests encompass a broad area of energy, environmental, food, population, economic, historical and public policy studies, and he had also applied these approaches to energy, food and environmental affairs of China. His name is pronounced as \"vah:tslahf\" and \"smeel\".\n\nSmil was born during WWII in Plzeň, at that time in the German Protectorate of Bohemia and Moravia (present-day Czech Republic). His father was a police officer and his mother a book keeper. Growing up in a remote mountain town in the Plzeň Region, Smil cut wood daily to keep the home heated providing an early lesson in energy efficiency and density.\nSmil completed his undergraduate studies at the Faculty of Natural Sciences of Charles University in Prague, where he took 35 classes a week, 10 months a year, for 5 years. \"They taught me nature, from geology to clouds,\" Smil said. After graduation he refused to join the Communist party, undermining his job prospects, though he found employment at a regional planning office. He married Eva who was studying to be a physician. In 1969, following the Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia, and Eva's graduation, the Smils emigrated to the USA, leaving the country months before a Soviet travel ban shut the borders. \"That was not a minor sacrifice, you know?\" Smil says. Over the next two years, Smil completed a doctorate in Geography at the College of Earth and Mineral Sciences of the Pennsylvania State University. In 1972, he took his first job offer at the University of Manitoba where he remained for decades, until his retirement. He taught introductory environmental science courses among other subjects dealing with energy, atmospheric change, China, population and economic development.\n\nIncluded among Smil's admirers is Microsoft co-founder Bill Gates, who has read all of Smil's 36 books. \"I wait for new Smil books the way some people wait for the next Star Wars movie,\" Gates wrote in 2017. \"I'll forever be Bill Gates's scientist,\" Smil ruefully said.\n\nSmil is known for being \"intensely private\", shunning the press while letting his books speak for themselves. At UM, he only ever showed up at one faculty meeting (since the 1980s). The school accepted his reclusiveness so long as he kept teaching and publishing highly-rated books. \n\nHis wife Eva is a physician and his son David is an organic synthetic chemist.\n\nSmil is sceptical that there will be a rapid transition to clean energy, believing it will take much longer than many predict. Smil said \"I have never been wrong on these major energy and environmental issues because I have nothing to sell,\" unlike many energy companies and politicians. \"He's a slayer of bullshit,\" says David Keith, an energy and climate scientist at Harvard University. \n\nSmil notes that as of 2018, coal, oil, and natural gas still supply 90% of the world's primary energy. Despite decades of growth of renewable energy, the world uses more fossil fuels in 2018 than in 2000, by percentage.\n\nHe is a Fellow of the Royal Society of Canada (Science Academy) and the recipient of the American Association for the Advancement of Science Award for Public Understanding of Science and Technology in 2000. In 2010, he was named by \"Foreign Policy\" magazine to its list of FP Top 100 Global Thinkers. In 2013, he was appointed by the Governor General to the Order of Canada. In the fall of 2013, he was the EADS Distinguished Visitor at the American Academy in Berlin.\n\nHe has been an invited speaker in more than 300 conferences and workshops in the USA, Canada, Europe, Asia and Africa, has lectured at many universities in North America, Europe and East Asia and has worked as a consultant for many US, European Union and international institutions.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12052348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12052348", "title": "Vlasina", "text": "Vlasina\n\nVlasina is a mountainous region of southeastern Serbia. It is a border area to Bulgaria, a region of the Rhodopian Serbia, with old rocks and mountains. Its most prominent landforms are eponymous Vlasina River and Vlasina Lake. It corresponds to the territories of municipalities of Crna Trava, Vlasotince and Surdulica.\n\nThe region consists of fours smaller, micro-regions: Crna Trava, Znepolje, Lužnica and Vlasotince. Near Vlasotince, remains of the ancient volcanic eruptions are quite visible.\n\nThe largest center of the whole region is the town of Vlasotince, but in general, the area is one of the least developed in Serbia, very poor and extremely depopulating. For example, population of Crna Trava municipality decreased from around 14,000 in 1953 to mere 2,500 in 2002. Accordingly, density also plunged, from 43 per km² in 1953 to only 8 per km² in 2002.\n\nA circular freeway connects the valleys of the Vlasina and Južna Morava rivers.\n\nIn 2005 Hellenic Bottling Co., a subsidiary of The Coca-Cola Company, bought the local water factory (\"Rosa\" is a trademark for this water) which is located close to the Vlasina source thus causing potests of the local environmentalists. Activists from the \"Eco base South\" (Eko baza Jug) were afraid of overexploitation drying out the sources of the river.\n\nIn 2018 it was announced that European free-tailed bat, previously unrecorded in Serbia, was discovered living in Vlasina region. It is a 31st species of bat which inhabits the country and the one with the largest wingspan.\n\n"}
{"id": "1116016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1116016", "title": "Waldo R. Tobler", "text": "Waldo R. Tobler\n\nWaldo Rudolph Tobler (November 16, 1930 – February 20, 2018) was an American-Swiss geographer and cartographer. Tobler's idea that \"Everything is related to everything else, but near things are more related than distant things\" is referred to as the \"first law of geography.\" He has proposed a second law as well: \"The phenomenon external to an area of interest affects what goes on inside\". Tobler was an active Professor Emeritus at the University of California, Santa Barbara Department of Geography until his death.\n\nIn 1961, Tobler received his Ph.D. in the Department of Geography at the University of Washington at Seattle. At Washington, he participated in geography's William Garrison-led quantitative revolution of the late 1950s. After graduating, Tobler spent several years at the University of Michigan. Until his retirement he held the positions of Professor of Geography and Professor of Statistics at the University of California, Santa Barbara. The University of Zurich, Switzerland, awarded him an honorary doctorate in 1988.\n\nTobler was one of the principal investigators and a senior scientist in the National Science Foundation-sponsored National Center for Geographic Information and Analysis. He has used computers in geographic research since the 1960s, with emphasis on mathematical modeling and graphic interpretations. Well known for his publications, he formulated the \"first law of geography\" in 1970 while producing a computer movie, and is the inventor of novel and unusual map projections, among which was the first derivation of the partial differential equations for area cartograms. He also invented a method for smooth two-dimensional mass-preserving areal data redistribution. In 1989, the American Geographical Society awarded Tobler with the Osborn Maitland Miller Medal.\n\nTobler has been involved recently in building a global, latitude-longitude oriented, demographic information base with resolution two orders of magnitude better than was previously available. He also had been examining the development of smooth finite element and categorical pycnophylactic geographic information reallocation models. In July 1999 he presented a keynote speech, \"The World is Shriveling as it Shrinks,\" at the ESRI International User Conference, and was the recipient of a Lifetime Achievement Award in GIS by ESRI. Taylor and Francis of London recently published a map projection book, co-authored with Q. Yang of China and the late John P. Snyder. Current interests relate to ideas in computational geography including the analysis of geographical vector fields and the development of migration and of global trade models.\n\nTobler has also been concerned with the representing flow (due to its involvement with movement as a mechanism of geographic change). In 2003, Tobler released a freeware, Microsoft Windows-based version of his flow representation software Flow Mapper. In 2005, an ESRI ArcGIS version of the software, inspired by Tobler, was developed by Alan Glennon and Michael Goodchild at UCSB. Both versions are available from the Center for Spatially Integrated Social Science (http://csiss.org/clearinghouse/FlowMapper/)\n\n\nTobler served on the National Research Council the Board on Earth Sciences. He has been on the editorial board of several journals, including \"The American Cartographer\", \"Journal of Regional Science\", \"Geographical Analysis\", and the \"International Journal of Geographical Information Systems\". He was a charter member of the Urban and Regional Information Systems Association, a council member of the Regional Science Association, member and chairman of the Mathematical Social Science Board, and served as the United States delegate to the International Geographical Union Commission on Geographical Data Processing and Sensing. Until his retirement, he was a member of the Royal Geographical Society of Great Britain.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24622984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24622984", "title": "Zikirti", "text": "Zikirti\n\nZikirti or Zikirtu, (also: \"Zikirta\", \"Zikurti\", \"Zekertu\") was an ancient kingdom (750-521 BC), in northern Zagros, which comprised the easternmost part of \"Greater Mannae\". Geographically it corresponds with the modern counties of Takab and Shahindej in northwestern Iran.\n\nThe people of Zikirti are possibly to be identified with ancient Iranian Sagartians, mentioned by Herodotus.\n"}
