{"id": "38635478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38635478", "title": "1934 in philosophy", "text": "1934 in philosophy\n\n1934 in philosophy\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38370512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38370512", "title": "Abdullah bin Ali Al Uyuni", "text": "Abdullah bin Ali Al Uyuni\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4881724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4881724", "title": "Afrancesado", "text": "Afrancesado\n\nAfrancesado (, ; \"Francophiles\" or \"turned-French\", lit. \"Frenchified\" or \"French-alike\") were the Spanish and Portuguese partisans of Enlightenment ideas, Liberalism, or the French Revolution, who were supporters of the French occupation of Iberia (Portugal and Spain) and of the First French Empire.\n\nIn Spain, the term \"afrancesado\" surfaced during the reign of Charles III, and had a neutral meaning, being used to designate those who followed French fashions and customs. Subsequently, it became popular as a pejorative reference to those members of the Spanish nobility and bureaucracy who swore allegiance to King Joseph I Bonaparte, and extended to cover a predominantly middle-class intellectual, merchant, and manufacturing environment who saw the French as agents of change in the rigid structure of Spanish society, and who reacted against the perceived corruption and incompetence of Charles IV and the House of Bourbon in general (including Joseph's competitor Ferdinand VII).\n\nAppointed King by his brother Napoleon Bonaparte, Joseph found himself at war with the majority of his subjects. He relied on the \"afrancesados\" to enforce a project that would gradually replace tradition and absolutism with a system Leandro Fernández de Moratín defined as based on \"razón, la justicia y el poder\" (\"reason, justice, and power\"). Progressive but not entirely liberal, this political creation was soon rejected by both conservatives and liberals (many liberals joined the \"guerilla\" against the occupation). The \"afrancesados\" were also weary of French designs: more favorable to the Revolution than of the Empire, they aimed to withdraw Spain from the Napoleonic Wars, and tried in vain to prevent Napoleon's separate administration of Spanish provinces (Catalonia, Aragon, Navarre, and Biscay) after 1809. \n\nThe Viceroyalty of the Río de la Plata had a French viceroy at the time, Santiago de Liniers. However, his appointment took place before the Peninsular War, and France was not involved at all in it: it was instead a consequence of the British invasions of the Río de la Plata, a conflict between Britain and the Spanish colonies. Napoleon and Joseph sent the Marquis of Sassenay to the zone, seeking support from Liniers to the new monarchy, but Liniers rejected it and confirmed his loyalty to the captive king Ferdinand VII. \n\nLater, they also attempted to negotiate with the anti-French Cortes reunited in Cádiz to maintain as much possible of Joseph's Bayonne laws of 1808 into Ferdinand's 1812 Constitution. Nonetheless, the Cortes voted to confiscate all assets of Joseph's court and of the \"afrancesados\".\n\nAfter Wellington's 1813 campaign and the battle of Vitoria, all of Joseph's court and his collaborators (nobles, soldiers, jurists, writers, journalists, and Roman Catholic clergy alike) took refuge to France with Jean-Baptiste Jourdan's armies. The total estimate of this exile is fluctuating between 4,000 and 12,000 persons at its peak.\n\nFerdinand broke the terms of his agreement with Napoleon after his return detention at the Château of Valençay (May 4, 1814), and began a campaign of persecution, defining as \"afrancesados\" most of those who had not risen in combat against the French: \"colaboracionistas\" (servants of French interests), receivers of honours and distinctions handed by king Joseph, co-operating bureaucrats (those who had not resigned their positions during the occupation), or even those who were sought by the French as collaborators but had denied offers.\n\nThe immense number of liberally-minded \"émigrés\" alarmed the authorities of the Bourbon Restoration in France, and they began steps to convince the Spanish government to pardon them. This came during the Liberal Triennium, as an amnesty decreed by liberal Premier Evaristo Pérez de Castro; those that did return had to flee soon after the Quintuple Alliance intervention. On April 21, 1832, France ordered them to solve their highly problematic stateless condition by either settling in the country or leaving its territory.\n\nThe term \"afrancesado\" in Portugal is connected with liberal politicians who organized the Revolution of Porto, begun on August 25, 1820. Demanding the rule of law as opposed to William Carr Beresford's arbitrary regime, calling for the return of King John VI - who had preferred to remain in Rio de Janeiro (Brazil), where he had transferred the Portuguese Court during the French invasion. \n\nFrench influence, already present during the War of the Oranges, had familiarized the \"afrancesado\" elite with principles such as the separation of powers and parliamentarianism, which they demanded to have enforced in Portugal.\n\n"}
{"id": "1138675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1138675", "title": "Alexander (2004 film)", "text": "Alexander (2004 film)\n\nAlexander is a 2004 epic historical drama film based on the life of the Macedonian general and king Alexander the Great. It was directed by Oliver Stone, with Colin Farrell in the title role. The film was an original screenplay based in part on the book \"Alexander the Great\", written in the 1970s by the University of Oxford historian Robin Lane Fox. After release, while it performed well in Europe, the American critical reaction was negative. It grossed over $167 million worldwide against a $155 million budget.\n\nFour versions of the film exist, the initial theatrical cut and three home video director's cuts: the \"Director's Cut\" in 2005, the \"Final Cut\" in 2007 and the \"Ultimate Cut\" in 2013. The two earlier DVD versions of \"Alexander\" (\"director's cut\" version and the theatrical version) sold over 3.5 million copies in the United States. Oliver Stone's third version, \"Alexander Revisited: The Final Cut\" (2007), sold nearly a million copies .\n\nThe story begins 40 years after 323 BC, around 283 BC, with Ptolemy I Soter, who narrates throughout the film. Alexander grows up with his mother Olympias and his tutor Aristotle, where he finds interest in love, honor, music, exploration, poetry, and military combat. His relationship with his father is destroyed when Philip marries Attalus's niece, Eurydice. Alexander insults Philip after disowning Attalus as his kinsman, which results in Alexander's banishment from Philip's palace.\n\nAfter Philip is assassinated, Alexander becomes King of Macedonia. Ptolemy mentions Alexander's punitive campaign in which he razes Thebes and burns Persepolis, then gives an overview of Alexander's west-Persian campaign, including his declaration as the son of Zeus by the Oracle of Amun at Siwa Oasis, his great battle against the Persian Emperor Darius III in the Battle of Gaugamela, and his eight-year campaign across Asia.\n\nAlso shown are Alexander's private relationships with his childhood friend Hephaistion, Bagoas, and later his wife Roxana. Hephaistion compares Alexander to Achilles, to which Alexander replies that Hephaistion must be his Patroclus (Achilles' best friend and lover). When Hephaistion mentions that Patroclus died first, Alexander pledges that, if Hephaistion should die first, he will follow him into the afterlife. Hephaistion shows extensive jealousy when he sees Alexander with Roxana and deep sadness when he marries her, going so far as to attempt to keep her away from him after Alexander murders Cleitus the Black in India.\n\nAfter initial objection from his soldiers, Alexander convinces them to join him into his final and bloodiest battle, the Battle of Hydaspes. He is severely injured with an arrow but survives and is celebrated. Later on, Hephaistion succumbs to an unknown illness either by chance or perhaps poison, speculated in the movie to be typhus carried with him from India. Alexander, full of grief and anger, distances himself from his wife, despite her pregnancy, believing that she has killed Hephaistion. He dies less than three months after Hephaistion, in the same manner, keeping his promise that he would follow him. On his deathbed, Bagoas grieves as Alexander's generals begin to split up his kingdom and fight over the ownership of his body.\n\nThe story then returns to 283 BC, where Ptolemy admits to his scribe that he, along with all the other officers, had indeed poisoned Alexander just to spare themselves from any future conquests or consequences. However, he has it recorded that Alexander died due to illness compounding his overall weakened condition. He then goes on to end his memoirs with praise to Alexander.\n\nThe story then ends with the note that Ptolemy's memoirs of Alexander were eventually burned, lost forever with the Library of Alexandria.\n\n\n\"Alexander\" was released in 2,445 venues on 24 November 2004 and earned $13,687,087 in its opening weekend, ranking sixth in the North American box office and second among the week's new releases. Upon closing on 1 February 2005, the film grossed $34,297,191 domestically and $133,001,001 overseas for a worldwide total of $167,298,192. Based on a $155 million budget, the film was a box office bomb.\n\nA group of 25 Greek lawyers initially threatened to file a lawsuit against both Stone and the Warner Bros film studio for what they claimed was an inaccurate portrayal of history. \"We are not saying that we are against gays,\" said Yannis Varnakos, \"but we are saying that the production company should make it clear to the audience that this film is pure fiction and not a true depiction of the life of Alexander”. After an advance screening of the film, the lawyers announced that they would not pursue such a course of action.\n\nAt the British premiere of the film, Stone blamed \"raging fundamentalism in morality\" for the film's US box-office failure. He argued that American critics and audiences had blown the issue of Alexander's sexuality out of proportion. The criticism prompted him to make significant changes to the film for its DVD release, whose cover characterizes them as making it \"faster paced, more action-packed\".\n\n\"Alexander\" attracted critical scrutiny from historians with regard to historical accuracy. Most academic criticism was concerned with the insufficient adherence to historical details.\n\nPersian historian Farrokh questioned the omission of the burning of Persepolis by Alexander and observed that, in the movie, \"Greek forces are typically shown as very organised, disciplined, and so on, and what's very disturbing is, when the so-called Persians are shown confronting the Macedonians, you see them turbaned. Their armies are totally disorganized. What is not known is that the Persians actually had uniforms. They marched in discipline, and music was actually used...\"\n\nOliver Stone has, in his various commentaries in the film's DVD, defended many of the most glaring historical issues in regard to Iranian history by claiming that he had no time or resources to portray accurately a multitude of battles at the expense of storytelling. He goes into great detail explaining how he merged all the major aspects of the Battle of the Granicus and the Battle of Issus into the Battle of Gaugamela, as well as heavily simplifying the Battle of Hydaspes into a straightforward clash, while merging the near-death of Alexander from the siege of Malli.\n\nThe film performed well in Europe, but, in North America, received mostly negative reviews from film critics, with Rotten Tomatoes giving it a 16% rating based on 202 reviews, with an average rating of 3.9/10. The website's critical consensus states: \"Even at nearly three hours long, this ponderous, talky, and emotionally distant biopic fails to illuminate Alexander's life.\" On Metacritic, the film has a weighted average score of 39 out of 100, based on 42 critics, indicating \"generally unfavorable reviews\".\n\nOne of the principal complaints among US film critics was that \"Alexander\" resembled less an action-drama film than a history documentary. Roger Ebert of the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" wrote in his review, \"[W]e welcome the scenes of battle, pomp and circumstance because at least for a time we are free of the endless narration of Ptolemy the historian.\"\n\nFaint praise came from \"Daily Variety Magazine\", published on 21 November 2004, for which Todd McCarthy wrote, \"Oliver Stone's \"Alexander\" is at best an honorable failure, an intelligent and ambitious picture that crucially lacks dramatic flair and emotional involvement. Dry and academic where \"Troy\" (2004) was vulgar and willfully ahistorical\".\n\nThe film was nominated in six categories at the Golden Raspberry Awards in 2005: Worst Picture, Worst Actor (Colin Farrell), Worst Actress (Angelina Jolie) and Worst Director (Oliver Stone), Worst Supporting Actor (Val Kilmer) and Worst Screenplay, thereby becoming the second-most-nominated potential \"Razzie\" film of 2004; however, it won no awards.\n\nThis is the film as it was originally released in theaters, with a running time of 175 minutes. It was released on DVD and is also available on Blu-ray in some territories.\n\nStone's director's cut was re-edited before the DVD release later in 2005. Stone removed seventeen minutes of footage and added nine back. This shortened the running time from 175 minutes to 167. The differences between the director's cut and the theatrical version are as follows:\n\nStone also made an extended version of \"Alexander\". \"I'm doing a third version on DVD, not theatrical\", he said, in an interview with Rope of Silicon. \"I'm going to do a Cecil B. DeMille three-hour-45-minute thing; I'm going to go all out, put everything I like in the movie. He [Alexander] was a complicated man, it was a complicated story, and it doesn't hurt to make it longer and let people who loved the film [...] see it more and understand it more.\"\n\nThe extended version was released under the title of \"Alexander Revisited: The Final Unrated Cut\" on 27 February 2007. The two-disc set featured a new introduction by Stone. \"Over the last two years,\" he said, \"I have been able to sort out some of the unanswered questions about this highly complicated and passionate monarch – questions I failed to answer dramatically enough. This film represents my complete and last version, as it will contain all the essential footage we shot. I don't know how many film-makers have managed to make three versions of the same film, but I have been fortunate to have the opportunity because of the success of video and DVD sales in the world, and I felt, if I didn't do it now, with the energy and memory I still have for the subject, it would never quite be the same again. For me, this is the complete \"Alexander\", the clearest interpretation I can offer.\"\n\nThe film is restructured into two acts with an intermission. \"Alexander: Revisited\" takes a more in-depth look at Alexander's life and his relationships with Olympias, Philip, Hephaestion, Roxana and Ptolemy. The film has a running time of three hours and 34 minutes (214 minutes, about 40 minutes longer than the theatrical cut and almost 50 minutes longer than the first director's cut) and is presented in 2.40:1 anamorphic widescreen with English Dolby Digital 5.1 Surround audio. Beyond the new introduction with Stone, there are no other extras on the DVD except for a free coupon to the movie \"300\". The Blu-ray and HD-DVD releases both feature a variety of special features however, including two audio commentaries and a new featurette.\n\nFor seven years, it was the only version of the film available on Blu-ray, until the release of the Ultimate Cut, which also includes the Theatrical Cut.\n\nIn November 2012, Stone revealed that he was working on a fourth cut of the film, at Warner's request and that this time around he would remove material, as he felt he had added in too much in the \"Final Cut\". The version, which is 206 minutes long, premiered on 3 July 2013 at the Karlovy Vary International Film Festival and Stone swears that no more versions will follow. In February 2014, Oliver Stone announced on Twitter that 'Alexander the Ultimate Cut (Tenth Anniversary Edition)' would be released in the United States on 3 June 2014. According to Amazon.com, some of its features include:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2846545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2846545", "title": "Ancient monument", "text": "Ancient monument\n\nIn British law, an ancient monument is an early historical structure or monument (e.g. an archaeological site) worthy of preservation and study due to archaeological or heritage interest. The term differs from the American term \"National Monument\" in that U.S. National Monuments are comparatively few in number and may include natural formations; British ancient monuments are by definition manmade.\n\nAncient monuments are defined by the Ancient Monuments and Archaeological Areas Act 1979 as\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58090436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58090436", "title": "Anton Loginov", "text": "Anton Loginov\n\nAnton Loginov (, born Mikhail Osipovich Loginov, Михаил Осипович Логинов; 1882–1963) was a Russian Bolshevik Revolutionary, Communist Party member, journalist, writer, Soviet publicist, and propagandist of atheism.\n\nLoginov was a member of the Russian Social Democratic Labour Party starting in 1902 and had the party nickname \"Anton\". He was also a member of the Tiflis City Party Committee and the Soviet of Soldiers' Deputies starting in 1918. From 1902 to 1912 he led illegal party work in Moscow and participated in many revolutions such as the First Russian revolution in Moscow and the October Revolution of 1917 in Tiflis.\n\nLoginov was a born speaker and a witty polemist. Lenin learned of his ability to speak with the masses in a simple and understandable language, to attract interesting material and witty answers to questions. He advised Loginov to engage in anti-religious propaganda. From the beginning of the 1920s Loginov devoted himself entirely to atheistic work, and trained qualified personnel in the anti-religious campaign. The Moscow Party had appointed Loginov to 's place on the Anti-religious Commission in March 1925, and by 1926 he was a leading League official. He was a member of the bureau of the district party committee, a member of the MK RCP (b), chairman of the Moscow and Central Soviet of Atheists, deputy People's Commissar of Communications, and editor of the newspaper and magazine \"Bezbozhnik\".\n\nIn the 1920s Loginov participated in disputes with representatives of the clergy. He focused on exposing the counter-revolutionary activity of churchmen, the antiscientific and reactionary essence of religion, and the class implications of religious morality. Loginov was the author of many articles and brochures on atheism and on religion. His book was published under the name \"Anton Loginov\". Typical of a pamphlet aimed at the countryside was Anton Loginov's \"The Godless: the Best Friend of the Peasant\" (1925). We do not want to take religion away from you, explained Loginov, we just want you to give it up. \"And what do you replace it with\", he has the peasant ask (quite realistically)? His answer “Evil does not have to be replaced, but simply rooted out. That is our program\". He died in Moscow, and is buried in the Novodevichy Cemetery.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43472946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43472946", "title": "Arab League boycott of Israel", "text": "Arab League boycott of Israel\n\nThe Arab League boycott of Israel is a strategy adopted by the Arab League and its member states to boycott economic and other relations between Arabs and the Arab states and Israel and specifically stopping all trade with Israel which adds to that country's economic and military strength. A secondary boycott was later imposed, to boycott non-Israeli companies that do business with Israel, and later a tertiary boycott involved the blacklisting of firms that that do business with other companies that do business with Israel.\n\nAn official organized boycott of the Yishuv (pre-state Jewish community in Palestine) was adopted by the Arab League in December 1945, and persisted against Israel after its establishment in 1948. The boycott was designed to weaken Jewish industry in Palestine and to deter Jewish immigration to the region. Although the boycott undoubtedly hurt Israel to some extent, it failed to cripple the country economically. Israel managed to build one of the strongest economies in the region, and managed to evade the boycott and clandestinely trade with the Arab and Muslim world through a number of countermeasures. The implementation of the boycott has varied over time among member states, and has since waned, with some states no longer applying the boycott.\n\nEgypt (1979), the Palestinian Authority (1993), and Jordan (1994) signed peace treaties or agreements that ended their participation in the boycott of Israel. Mauritania, which never applied the boycott, established diplomatic relations with Israel in 1999. Algeria, Morocco, and Tunisia do not enforce the boycott. In 1994, following the Oslo Peace Accords, the Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf (GCC) states, ended their participation in the Arab boycott against Israel. The move prompted a surge of investment in Israel, and resulted in the initiation of joint cooperation projects between Israel and Arab countries. In 1996, the GCC states recognized that total elimination of the boycott is a necessary step for peace and economic development in the region.\n\nWhile in its heyday, the Arab boycott had a moderate negative impact on Israel's economy and development, but also had significant negative effect on economic welfare in participating Arab countries, as the result of a deterioration in the foreign direct investment climate in the Arab world, and reduction in the volume of trade. In present days, the boycott is sporadically applied and ambiguously enforced, and therefore, no longer has significant effect on the Israeli or Arab economies. The boycott also negatively impacted other countries— particularly the United States during the Arab Oil Embargo in the 1970s.\n\nToday, most Arab states, Syria being the exception, no longer attempt to enforce the secondary or tertiary boycotts. Syria, Lebanon, and Iran (though not an Arab state) are the only states which actively enforce the primary boycott. \n\nAs part of the intercommunal conflict in Mandatory Palestine, some Arab leaders sought to orchestrate anti-Jewish boycotts from 1922. The original boycott forswore with any Jewish-owned business operating in Mandatory Palestine. Palestinian Arabs \"who were found to have broken the boycott ... were physically attacked by their brethren and their merchandise damaged\" when Palestinian Arabs rioted in Jerusalem in 1929. Another, stricter boycott was imposed on Jewish businesses in following the riots that called on all of the Arabs in the region to abide by its terms. The Arab Executive Committee of the Syrian-Palestinian Congress called for a boycott of Jewish businesses in 1933 and in 1934, the Arab Labor Federation conducted a boycott as well as an organized picketing of Jewish businesses. In 1936, the Palestinian Arab leadership called on another boycott and threatened those who did not respect the boycott with violence, however, this boycott was unsuccessful as Jewish lawyers, physicians, and hospitals were too heavily integrated into Palestinian society.\n\nThe Arab League was formed on 22 March 1945 with five members, while a sixth member joined later that year. On 2 December 1945, it issued its first formal declaration of an economic boycott of the Jewish community of Palestine. The declaration urged both Arab United Nations member states and Arab states which had not yet obtained UN membership to prohibit the products and usage of the products of Jewish industry in Palestine, effective January 1, 1946. The declaration, contained in Arab League Resolution 16, stated:\nThe Arab League began to create the apparatus for implementing the resolution in February the same year. The first body established for this purpose was the Permanent Boycott Committee, based in Cairo, Egypt. On 12 June the Boycott Committee adopted a recommendation in Arab League Resolution 70, which called upon the Arab states to set up national boycott offices. Later measures adopted by the Committee included requiring those selling goods to Arab states to provide a certificate of origin to prove the goods were not manufactured by Palestinian Jews, the allocation of 50% of the value of goods confiscated in this manner to customs officials, the prohibition by Arabs of the use of Jewish banks, insurance companies, contractors, and transport in Palestine. Member states of the Arab League began implementing these resolutions through legal and administrative measures. After the Partition Plan of Palestine into Arab and Jewish states was introduced at the United Nations on 29 November 1947, efforts to apply the boycott were intensified. However, the boycott was unsuccessful, as noted in the first annual report of the Boycott Committee, and trade between Palestine (the vast majority by Jews) and Arab States neighboring Palestine continued to thrive.\n\nFollowing the Israeli declaration of independence on 14 May 1948, the Permanent Boycott Committee ceased to function upon the outbreak of war between Israel and surrounding Arab States on 15 May 1948, and the Arab League repeated its calls for a ban on all financial and commercial transactions with Palestinian Jews, boycotting the newly formed State of Israel. The Arab League cut off postal, telegraphic, and radio communications with Israel, and Arab States began to impose a land, sea, and air blockade on the fledgling state. Israeli goods, shipped through Alexandria, Port Suez and Port Said, were confiscated by Egyptian inspectors. A prize court established in Alexandria in 1949 authorized the seizure of cargo ships destined for Israel. In 1950, regulations were promulgated to allow the search of ships and aircraft and the seizure of Israeli-bound goods found within.\n\nThe Arab-Israeli war ended on 10 March 1949 with a decisive Israeli victory. On 6 February 1950, King Farouk of Egypt issued a decree under which manifests and cargoes of ships could be searched to ensure that no \"war contraband\" was present on vessels bound directly or indirectly for Israel. War contraband included arms, munitions, and war material. However, article 10 additionally stipulated that other goods were to be considered \"contraband\" and were to be treated as war material — ships, chemicals, motor vehicles, money, gold, and fuel of any kind. At the time 90% of Israeli oil was supplied by Iran and imported through the Straits of Tiran. To prevent Iranian oil from entering Israel, Egypt blockaded the Straits of Tiran and the Gulf of Aqaba. Oil tankers proceeding through the Suez Canal were required to submit documentation to guarantee none of their cargo would arrive at an Israeli port. To enforce the policy of denying strategic goods to Israel, the decree authorized the use of force against any ship attempting to avoid search, including live gunfire, to make it submit to inspection. If a ship were to subsequently allow a search and reveal that they were not carrying any \"contraband\", the ship would be allowed to continue its voyage. However, if the ship resisted a search by force, it would be considered to have violated its neutrality. For this \"hostile act\", ships were to be seized and their cargo impounded even if they were not found to possess any \"contraband\". Ships found or suspected to transgress the Egyptian shipping practices delineated in this decree were blacklisted by Egypt and denied free use of the Suez Canal. The decree of February 1950 signaled a shift in the policy of the Arab League. The boycott's immediate purpose had originally been to prevent direct Arab trade with Israel (called a primary boycott). With this decree the boycott was expanded to the interruption of international trade with Israel (a secondary boycott). On 8 April 1950, the Arab League Council embraced this shift, approving a decision by its political committee to the effect that all ships carrying goods or immigrants to Israel were to be blacklisted.\n\nIn the summer of 1950, the governments of Britain, Norway, and the United States lodged a complaint with Egypt about some of their tankers being blacklisted and barred from using the Suez Canal. On 1 September 1951, after ships destined for Eilat had been stopped at the entrance of the Gulf of Aqaba, Israel went to the United Nations, demanding Egypt terminate its restrictions on navigation through international waterways in adherence to the 1949 Armistice and to Security Council resolutions prohibiting further hostilities between the Arab states and Israel. The United Nations Security Council issued a resolution which condemned the Egyptian practice as an \"abuse of the exercise of the right of visit, search and seizure.\" This resolution was ignored by Egypt.\n\nOn 19 May 1951, the Arab League Council passed Resolution 357, which established a successor to the defunct Permanent Boycott Committee, the Central Boycott Office (CBO), with its headquarters in Damascus. Branch offices of the Damascus CBO were established in each of the Arab League member states. To direct the CBO the resolution created the position of Boycott Commissioner and provided for the appointment of his deputies, who were to function as liaison officers accredited by each member state of the Arab League. The primary task of the Damascus CBO was to coordinate the boycott with its affiliated offices, and to report regularly to Arab League Council. Biannual meetings were to be held each year after 1951 to coordinate boycott policies and to compile blacklists of individuals and firms which had violated the boycott. Each member state of the Arab League would enforce the resolution through legal and administrative measures. Finally, the resolution stipulated that \"participation in regional conferences organized on the initiative of one country or by an international organization could not be attended if Israel were also invited\", expanding upon its 1950 decree that such a conference would not be organized by an Arab state.\n\nBoycotts were almost exclusively applied against specific individuals and firms in third countries, and very rarely against the countries themselves, excluding a few short-lived boycotts of countries in the early 1950s. A plan was made by the Arab League in 1952 to boycott the Federal Republic of Germany after it signed the Reparations Agreement with Israel, which would provide Israel with restitution for the slave labor of Jews during the Holocaust and compensate for losses in Jewish livelihood and property that was stolen due to Nazi persecution and genocide. The Arab League strongly opposed the agreement, but its threats to boycott West Germany were never carried out due to economic considerations—the Arab League would be impacted far more negatively by losing trade with West Germany than vice versa. Similarly, at its second meeting on the boycott in 1953, the Arab League proposed a wide range of restrictions on trade with Cyprus, which had become a hub of illicit Arab-Israeli trade. The restrictions were greatly relaxed due to international criticism of the boycott of an entire state not involved in the Arab-Israeli conflict, but they were not completely eliminated.\n\nThe boycott of third parties (secondary boycott) originally applied solely to funds and strategic commodities. However, on 28 November 1953, Egypt increased its disruption of Israeli maritime trade by expanding its list of \"contraband\" to include \"foodstuffs and all other commodities likely to strengthen the potential of the Zionists in Palestine in any way whatsoever.\"\n\nBy 1953 the Arab boycott was a well-established feature of international trade relations, and becoming more brazen. In early 1953 the first reports were released about Arab attempts to make American and European airlines boycott Israel by refusing to service Israelis or land in Israel, or at a minimum to not invest in Israel. This tertiary boycott marked another fundamental shift in boycott policy wherein Arab states would pressure third party states to agree to boycott Israel. However, these rudimentary efforts were unsuccessful and the airline boycotts remained isolated to the Arab world.\n\nOn 11 December 1954 the Arab League Council passed Resolution 849, approving the Unified Law on the Boycott of Israel. The provisions of this resolution, implemented in legislation by most member states over the following year, formalized the application of the boycott in the Arab States uniformly. The resolution contained new recommendations prohibiting Arab entities and individuals from dealing with agencies of persons working for Israel, and with foreign companies and organizations with interests, agencies, or branches in Israel. The export of Arab goods to countries to be re-exported to Israel was criminalized with a penalty of large fines and hard labor.\n\nIn the mid-1950s boycott activities intensified, and gained a new and highly powerful ally — the Soviet Union. During Israel's early years it was seen by the USSR as a potential ally due to the significant socialist aspirations advocated by its founders and applied in its conception. The Soviet Union was one of the first countries to recognize Israel \"de jure\" upon its establishment in 1948. However, as Israel's democratic nature became evident and its ties with Western states were solidified, the Soviet Union would view Israel as an enemy in the West vs. East dichotomy of the Cold War. Instead, the Soviet Union would form an alliance with the revolutionary Arab regimes, Egypt, Syria, Yemen, Sudan, and later in the decade Iraq, united in anti-American and anti-Israel political objectives. The clout of the Soviet Union gave the boycott new international legitimacy and guaranteed anti-boycott resolutions a veto at the UN Security Council. The tertiary boycott, formerly ignored as an affront to international trade relations, became enforceable through the sheer political and economic power of the Soviet Union. In 1958, Air France capitulated to Arab League demands after being denied overflight and landing rights in Arab states for eighteen months due to its alleged investment in Israeli development projects.\n\nWith the success of the first tertiary boycott the Arab League became increasingly demanding of uninvolved states to adhere to its boycott of Israel. In 1958 the boycott was expanded to prohibit all goods exported from a third state identical to goods imported by the state from Israel, including goods produced with Israeli raw materials or components. In the same year, ships visiting an Arab port and an Israeli port within the same trip were blacklisted.\n\nThe Arab boycott of Israel escalated with the 1973 oil crisis, when the members of the Organization of Arab Petroleum Exporting Countries (OAPEC, consisting of nine Arab members of OPEC plus Egypt and Syria) announced an oil embargo in October 1973, following United States resupply of arms to Israel during the 1973 Yom Kippur War, the first time the United States directly supported Israel in a war. The OAPEC embargo targeted Canada, Japan, the Netherlands, the United Kingdom and the United States. OAPEC threatened to cut oil production 5% monthly \"until the Israeli forces are completely evacuated from all the Arab territories occupied in the June 1967 war...\" The embargo lasted for about five months before it was lifted in March 1974, though its aftereffects were to continue.\n\nA number of companies found ways of bypassing the boycott and managed to trade with both Israel and the Arab world. For example, some firms that did business with Arab countries officially complied with the boycott, but in practice subcontracted their trade with Israel to companies already blacklisted by the Arab states, while others did business with Israel through divisions or affiliates whose links to the company were disguised. Others strove to cultivate good personal relationships with Arab leaders, who would allow them to trade with Israel without economic repercussions in their own countries as a favor. Some firms placed on the blacklist managed to lobby or buy their way off it.\n\nIsrael responded to the boycott by creating its own blacklist of firms that respected the boycott, and circulated them around the world to encourage Jewish-owned businesses to avoid dealing with them. In addition, Israel supporters in some Western countries managed to get anti-boycott laws passed, but they typically went unenforced everywhere except the United States. In 1977 the United States Congress passed a law that President Jimmy Carter signed, which made it a criminal offense to adhere to the boycott and imposed fines on American companies that were found to be complying with it. For the surveillance after the implementation of this law, an office called the \"Office of Antiboycott Compliance\" was opened in the US Department of Commerce. Despite the fines, there were some American companies (like McDonald's) which preferred to pay the fines and continue boycotting Israel rather than lose their business with the Arab world.\n\nIsrael also took a series of steps to evade the embargo and clandestinely trade with the Arab world. Front companies in third countries were set up, which imported goods, then re-exported them to Arab countries with false labels and certificates of origin. In other cases, foreign companies would purchase Israeli technology and materials, use them to assemble completed products, and export them to Arab countries while concealing this fact from their customers. Arrangements with American companies were worked out where the American companies would buy goods from Israeli affiliates and export them as American-made goods. Israeli ships were re-flagged as ships of other nations and provided with faked bills of landing so they could directly export goods to the Arab and Muslim world. Greece and Cyprus were particularly popular hubs for smuggling Israeli goods into the Arab world due to their location, multilateral economic connections, large merchant fleets, and Cyprus' corporate and bank secrecy laws.\n\nEgypt was the first nation to abandon boycott, doing so in 1980 after signing a peace treaty with Israel the previous year. After more or less consistently adhering to the practice of seizing cargo bound for Israel since 1950, the Straights of Tiran and the Gulf of Aqaba were opened to Israeli trade and Israeli cargo went unmolested for the first time in decades. Afterwards, Egypt became a convenient destination to smuggle Israeli goods into the rest of the Arab world, as Israeli goods could be legally imported into Egypt and relabeled as Egyptian for trade with other Arab countries, although the treaty led to other Arab countries becoming more suspicious of Egyptian products. By the late 1980s, Israel's counter-measures against the boycott were proving a success, and the Boycott Office estimated that between $750 million to $1 billion worth of Israeli goods, or about 10% of Israel's exports at the time, were reaching Arab markets per year.\n\nIn 1995, a year after it signed a peace treaty with Israel, Jordan lifted its boycott. The Palestinian Authority likewise agreed not to abide by the boycott that same year. In 1994 several of the Arab states of the Persian Gulf abandoned the secondary and tertiary boycotts. The period also saw \"low-level diplomatic relations\" between Israel and Morocco, Mauritania, Oman, and Qatar. In 1994, following the Oslo Peace Accords, the Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf (GCC) states, ended their participation in the Arab boycott against Israel. The move prompted a surge of investment in Israel, and resulted in the initiation of joint cooperation projects between Israel and Arab countries. In 1996, the GCC states recognized that total elimination of the boycott is a necessary step for peace and economic development in the region. Algeria, Morocco, and Tunisia do not enforce the boycott. Mauritania, which never applied the boycott, established diplomatic relations with Israel in 1999. Saudi Arabia had pledged to end its economic boycott as a condition for membership in the World Trade Organization but came back on the promise following its acceptance into the organization in December 11, 2005.\n\nAs the boycott was relaxed (or rather, not as stringently enforced) starting in the late 1980s and early 1990s, many companies which previously stayed out of the Israeli market had entered it, e.g. McDonald's and Nestlé. In 1985, the ban was lifted on Ford, which had been in place since the company had opened an assembly plant in Israel, and Colgate-Palmolive, although five other companies were added to the blacklist. Toyota began selling cars in Israel in 1991, although it claimed that it had never complied with the boycott, arguing that it did not have the resources to sell cars in the country.\n\nThe Arab League boycott of Israel extends to military and security non-cooperation. For example, before the Gulf War (1990-91) the United States sought to form a military coalition that included Arab countries to confront Saddam Husein’s Iraq following his invasion of Kuwait. During the war, Iraq fired many Scud missiles potentially containing poison gas at Israel, which caused considerable distress and damage in Israel, hoping to provoke an Israeli military response. The Iraqi government hoped that Arab states would withdraw from the coalition, as they would be reluctant to fight alongside Israel. US President Bush pressured Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Shamir not to retaliate and withdraw Israeli jets, fearing that if Israel attacked Iraq, the other Arab countries would either desert the coalition or join Iraq. It was also feared that if Israel used Syrian or Jordanian airspace to attack Iraq, they would intervene in the war on Iraq's side or attack Israel.\n\nToday, most Arab states, Syria being the exception, no longer attempt to enforce the secondary or tertiary boycotts. Syria, Lebanon, and Iran (though not an Arab state) are the only states which actively enforce the primary boycott. The Central Boycott Office has become obsolete. With the vast majority of Arab states benefiting from trade with Israel, any \"boycott\" has become symbolic in nature, limited to bureaucratic slights such as passport restrictions.\nThe Boycott, Divestment and Sanctions (BDS) movement was founded in 2005 in an attempt to increase economic and political pressure on Israel and advocates a total, international boycott of Israeli products, divestment of investments in Israel and sanctions. Besides anti-Israel economic measures, the BDS movement also strives to disrupt cultural exchanges and business involving Israel, Israelis and businesses which deal with them. In addition, sporting teams from various Arab states continue to boycott international matches when they are drawn against an Israeli team, choosing instead to forfeit the match.\n\nToday, 31 United Nations member states do not recognise the State of Israel. These include 18 of the 22 Arab League members: Algeria, Bahrain, Comoros, Djibouti, Iraq, Kuwait, Lebanon, Libya, Morocco, Oman, Qatar, Saudi Arabia, Somalia, Sudan, Syria, Tunisia, United Arab Emirates, and Yemen; and a further 10 members of Organisation of Islamic Cooperation: Afghanistan, Bangladesh, Brunei, Chad, Indonesia, Iran, Malaysia, Mali, Niger, and Pakistan. In 2002, the Arab League offered recognition of Israel by Arab countries as part of the resolution of the Palestine-Israel conflict in the Arab Peace Initiative.\n\nThe passports of some countries are not valid for travel to Israel. These countries include Bangladesh, Brunei, Iran, Iraq, and Pakistan. Sixteen countries do not accept Israeli passports. These are Algeria, Bangladesh, Brunei, Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Lebanon, Libya, Malaysia, Oman, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, Syria, United Arab Emirates and Yemen. Eight of these also do not accept passports of other countries whose holder has an Israeli visa endorsed in it. The stamp may be a visa stamp, or a stamp on entry or departure. It can also include a stamp of another country which indicates that the person has entered Israel. For example, if an Egyptian departure stamp is used in any passport at the Taba Crossing, that is an indication that the person entered Israel.\n\nCountries with restrictions in place\n\nAlthough it cannot be estimated to what extent the boycott hurt Israel's economy, the boycott cannot be said to have affected it to the extent the Arabs intended. Israel's economy has performed relatively well since 1948, achieving a higher GDP per capita than that of all Arab countries except for the oil-rich gulf states of Kuwait and Qatar. The boycott nevertheless has undoubtedly harmed Israel to some extent. The Israeli Chamber of Commerce estimates that with the boycott Israeli exports are 10 percent less than they would be without the boycott and investment in Israel likewise 10 percent lower.\n\nArab states suffer economically from the boycott as well. In its report on the cost of conflict in the Middle East, Strategic Foresight Group estimates that Arab states lost an opportunity to export $10 billion worth of goods to Israel between 2000-2010. Moreover, the Arab states of the Persian Gulf and Iran together stand to lose $30 billion as the opportunity cost of not exporting oil to Israel in the second half of the decade.\n\nBecause of the boycott, certain products which were ubiquitous elsewhere in the world, such as Pepsi, McDonald's and most Japanese cars were not to be found in Israel until the boycott began waning in the late 1980s. A similar situation existed in the Arab world which boycotted the products of companies that were selling in Israel as in the case of Coca-Cola, Ford and Revlon.\n\nDespite the boycott, Israeli goods often do make it to Arab markets in boycott countries. The boycott evasion tactic of using a third country as a front to export Israeli goods to the Arab and Muslim world has still been used. In addition, Israeli products are not heavily boycotted in the Palestinian territories and often make it into the larger Arab world through the Palestinians.\n\nThe United States adopted two anti-boycott laws that seek to counteract the participation of U.S. citizens in other nation's economic boycotts or embargoes (although these laws do not restrict the ability to engage in disinvestment campaigns.) These laws are the 1977 amendments to the Export Administration Act (EAA) and the Ribicoff Amendment to the Tax Reform Act of 1976 (TRA). The antiboycott provisions of the Export Administration Regulations (EAR) apply to all \"U.S. persons,\" defined to include individuals and companies located in the United States and their foreign affiliates, and prohibit them to participate in unsanctioned boycotts against other nations, punishable by fines of up to $50,000 or five times the value of the exports involved or jail term of up to 10 years.\n\nConduct that may be penalized under the TRA and/or prohibited under the EAR includes:\n\nOf all the Western countries, only the United Kingdom has not passed legislation against the Arab boycott. Despite this, many companies in Western nations practice some degree of compliance with the boycott.\n\nJapan was the industrialized nation that complied most with the boycott. As a result, Israel–Japan relations have been limited until the 1990s.\n\nThe following is a list of notable people who were at any time blacklisted in the Arab world.\nThe following is a list of notable corporations that were at any time blacklisted in the Arab world.\n\n\nThe following is a list of notable films that were at any time blacklisted in the Arab world.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58565830", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58565830", "title": "Association for Preservation Technology International", "text": "Association for Preservation Technology International\n\nThe Association for Preservation Technology International (APT) is a not-for-profit, multidisciplinary, membership organization dedicated to promoting the best technology for conserving and preserving historic structures and their settings. Founded in 1968 by preservationists from Canada and the United States, it now has 1,500 members from 30 countries, with headquarters in Springfield, Illinois. APT’s activities include conferences, training and education programs, and publications on the technical aspects of preservation.\n\nAPT members include architects, engineers, conservators, consultants, contractors, craftspeople, curators, administrators, program managers, developers, educators, historians, landscape architects, materials suppliers, students, technicians, and others involved in historic preservation.\n\nProfessionals in the field of historic preservation from Canada and the United States met in Canada in 1968 to form an organization that would promote the exchange of information and ideas pertaining to work on the constructed manifestation of cultural heritage, including not only buildings and landscapes, but also objects and collections. The organization’s first four aims and objectives, as published in the first \"Newsletter\" in April 1969, were:\n\nThe founding members were Alice Allison, David Bartlett, Gerald Budner, Jacques Dalibard, Oliver Torrey Fuller, George MacBeath, Pierre Mayrand, Jeanne Minhinnick, Lee Nelson, William Patterson, Charles E. Peterson, Jack Richardson, and Peter John Stokes.\n\nThe first president was Charles E. Peterson. Early members, including Martin E. Weaver, the organization’s fifth president, and Morgan W. Phillips, were instrumental in establishing the field of architectural conservation.\n\nAPT’s mission is “to advance appropriate traditional and new technologies to care for, protect, and promote the longevity of the built environment and to cultivate the exchange of knowledge throughout the international community.”\n\nThe initial impetus of the founders to combine the dissemination of scholarly studies of the history of building with discussions about the application of the philosophy and practice of heritage conservation technology resulted in a conference at the Pine Brook Conference Center in Upper Saranac Lake, New York, in 1969. The APT conference then became an annual event. Since 1975, training courses (now called workshops) were presented in conjunction with the conferences. From their inception, the conferences and training courses have been characterized by exchanges of ideas among practitioners, program managers and policy makers. APT has also presented training courses, workshops and symposia as stand-alone events, independent of annual conferences.\n\nAPT disseminates information through its website, electronic and print publications, and digital archives. The organization’s flagship publication is the \"APT Bulletin,\" a peer-reviewed journal published quarterly. The newsletter, the \"Communiqué,\" is published bimonthly and circulated through email.\n\nAPT periodically publishes books in the field of heritage conservation. The most recent publications are the \"Preservation Technology Primer,\" a collection of articles from the \"APT Bulletin,\" and the second edition of \"Introduction to Early American Masonry,\" by Harley J. KcKee.\n\nTo disseminate information on historic building materials and systems, APT created the Building Technology Heritage Library (BTHL), a digital collection of historic building trade catalogs hosted by the Internet Archive. The collection is growing and had over 9,800 items in September 2018.\n\nThere are 19 local APT chapters, which allow interaction among members throughout the year. Fourteen chapters are in the United States, three are in Canada, with one in Australasia and one in Latin America. Chapters host local events including visits to sites of interest to members, workshops, and symposia.\n\nDevelopment and dissemination of technical information is mainly carried out by technical committees with specific focus areas. The technical committees are: Preservation Engineering, Sustainable Preservation, Modern Heritage, Documentation, Materials, and Codes.\n"}
{"id": "1208887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1208887", "title": "Bacalao", "text": "Bacalao\n\nBacallao (or Terra do Bacalhau) was a phantom island depicted on several early 16th century Portuguese maps and nautical charts. The name first appears on a chart in 1508, but there are earlier accounts of Bacalao. \"Bacallao\" literally means \"cod\" or \"stockfish\".\n\nAccording to Gaspar Frutuoso in his work \"Saudades da Terra,\" written in the 1570s, the Portuguese navigator João Vaz Corte-Real in 1472 was granted lands in the Azores by the king of Portugal, because of his discovery of the \"Terras do Bacalhau\". Historians do not consider the work of Frutuoso as very reliable, as it contains a great deal of misinformation. But, Bartolomé de Las Casas also wrote about Portuguese voyages of discovery to \"Tierra de los Bacallao\". There has been speculation that Corte-Real reached the Americas a couple of decades before Columbus.\n\nOff the northeast tip of Newfoundland's Avalon Peninsula is an island named Baccalao. Its European name was originally in the French language.\n\n\nSILVA, A. J. M. (2015), The fable of the cod and the promised sea. About Portuguese traditions of bacalhau, in BARATA, F. T- and ROCHA, J. M. (eds.), Heritages and Memories from the Sea, Proceedings of the 1st International Conference of the UNESCO Chair in Intangible Heritage and Traditional Know-How: Linking Heritage, 14–16 January 2015. University of Evora, Évora, pp. 130–143. PDF version\n"}
{"id": "58241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58241", "title": "Bacharach", "text": "Bacharach\n\nBacharach (, also known as \"Bacharach am Rhein\") is a town in the Mainz-Bingen district in Rhineland-Palatinate, Germany. It belongs to the \"Verbandsgemeinde\" of Rhein-Nahe, whose seat is in Bingen am Rhein, although that town is not within its bounds.\n\nThe original name \"Baccaracus\" points to Celtic beginnings. Above the town looms Stahleck Castle (\"Burg Stahleck\"), nowadays a youth hostel.\n\nThe town lies in the Rhine Gorge, 48 km south of Koblenz.\n\nBacharach is divided into several \"Ortsteile\". The outlying centre of Steeg lies in the Steeg Valley (\"Steeger Tal\") off to the side, away from the Rhine. This glen lies between Medenscheid and Neurath to the south and Henschhausen to the north on the heights.\n\nIn the early 11th century, Bacharach had its first documentary mention. It may have been that as early as the 7th century, the kingly domain passed into Archbishop of Cologne Kunibert’s ownership; pointing to this is a \"Kunibertskapelle\" (chapel) on the spot where now stands the \"Wernerkapelle\". The \"Vögte\" of the Cologne estate were the Elector of the Palatinate, who over time pushed back Cologne’s influence. Count Palatine already had so much influence that he resided at Stahleck Castle. His successor Konrad von Staufen’s daughter secretly wed at Stahleck Castle a son of the Welfs, who were family foes, leading to Bacharach’s, and indeed the whole County Palatine’s, falling for a short time to Henry of Brunswick. In 1214 the Wittelsbachs became Bacharach’s new lords. Together with the \"Unteramt\" of Kaub they received here their most important toll and revenue source. In 1314 it was decided to choose Louis the Bavarian as the German king. Furthermore, Bacharach was the most important transfer point for the wine trade, as barrels were offloaded here from the smaller ships that were needed to get by the \"Binger Loch\" (a quartzite reef in the Rhine upstream near Bingen) and loaded onto bigger ones. From then on, the wine bore the designation \"Bacharacher\". The timber trade from the Hunsrück also brought Bacharach importance, and in 1356, Bacharach was granted town rights.\n\nWidely visible is the \"Wernerkapelle\", a \"Rheinromantik\" landmark of the town, lying on the way up to Stahleck Castle from the town. It is the expanded \"Kunibertkapelle\", and is still an unfinished Gothic ruin today. Its namesake is Werner of Oberwesel, known in connection with pogroms triggered by his death. According to the Christian blood libel, which was typical of the times, a 16-year-old Werner was murdered on Maundy Thursday 1287 by members of the local Jewish community, who then used his blood for Passover observances. On the grounds of this alleged ritual murder, there arose an anti-Semitic mob who waged a pogrom, wiping out Jewish communities in the Middle and Lower Rhine and Moselle regions. In folk Christianity arose the cult of Werner, which was only stricken from the Bishopric of Trier calendar in 1963.\n\nIn 1344, building work began on the town wall, and was already finished about 1400. In 1545, the town, along with the Palatinate, became Protestant under Count Palatine Friedrich II. Stahleck Castle and the town wall could not stop Bacharach from undergoing eight changes in military occupation in the Thirty Years' War, nor the war’s attendant sackings. Moreover, further destruction was wrought by several town fires. Then, in 1689, French troops fighting in the Nine Years' War blew Stahleck Castle and four of the town wall’s towers up.\n\nIn 1794, French Revolutionary troops occupied the Rhine’s left bank and in 1802, Bacharach became temporarily French. During the War of the Sixth Coalition the Prussian Field Marshal Blücher, after crossing the Rhine near Kaub, came through Bacharach and the Steeg Valley on New Year’s Night 1813-1814 with his troops on the way to France. Recalling this event is a monument stone somewhat downstream, across from Kaub. After the Congress of Vienna, the town went, along with the Rhine’s left bank, up to and including Bingerbrück, to Prussia. After the harbour silted up, Bacharach fell into a slumber from which it only awoke in the course of the \"Rheinromantik\". Among the first of the prominent visitors at this time was the French writer Victor Hugo.\n\nCaring for and maintaining Bacharach’s building monuments, spurred on in the early 20th century by the Rhenish Association for Monument Care and Landscape Preservation (\"Rheinischer Verein für Denkmalpflege und Landschaftsschutz\") which took on the then highly endangered town wall and Stahleck Castle ruin jobs, and the great dedication of the state of Rhineland-Palatinate to the \"Wernerkapelle\" have seen to it that Bacharach is still a jewel of the \"Rheinromantik\" and a multifaceted documentary site of mediaeval architecture on the Middle Rhine. The \"Wernerkapelle\" ruin is under monumental protection and before it a plaque has been placed recalling the inhuman crimes against Jewish residents and also containing a quotation from a prayer by Pope John XXIII for a change in Christians’ thinking in their relationship with the Jews:\n\n“We recognize today that many centuries of blindness have shrouded our eyes, so that we no longer saw the goodliness of Thy Chosen People and no longer recognized our firstborn brother’s traits. We discover now that a mark of Cain stands on our forehead. In the course of the centuries our brother Abel has lain in blood that we spilt, and he has wept tears that we brought forth, because we forgot Thy love. Forgive us the curse that we unrightfully affixed to the Jews’ name. Forgive us for nailing Thee in their flesh for a second time to the Cross. For we knew not what we did...\"\n\nToday Bacharach thrives on tourism and wine from Bacharach is still enjoying international popularity. Not to be overlooked, however, are problems arising from a shrinking population, itself brought about by a lack of prospects.\n\nOn 7 June 1969, the formerly self-administering municipality of Steeg was amalgamated with Bacharach.\n\n\nThe town’s arms might be described thus: Per fess at the nombril point sable a lion rampant Or armed, langued and crowned gules, and bendy lozengy argent and azure.\n\nThe number 1871-1987 are census results\n\nBacharach lies on the Rhine’s left bank and can be reached by \"Bundesstraße\" 9 or the Rhine. Running regularly to and from Bacharach are the excursion ships of the \"Köln-Düsseldorfer-Rheinschiffahrt\", or KD for short.\n\nTransport routes on the other side of the river can be reached by ferry from the \"Engelsburg\" (castle) over to Kaub.\n\nThe town belongs to the \"Rhein-Nahe-Nahverkehrsverbund\" – a local transport association. Bacharach lies on the West Rhine Railway and is served by Koblenz—Boppard—Bacharach—Bingen am Rhein—Mainz Regionalbahn trains (as of July 2004).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27955827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27955827", "title": "Bevis Longstreth", "text": "Bevis Longstreth\n\nBevis Longstreth is a retired lawyer and former Commissioner of the United States Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). He is also a writer, having authored three historical novels, two set in Ancient Persia and one set in the United States during the 1930s. He sits on the board of a number institutions in education, the arts, and the financial world.\n\nBevis Longstreth was the 60th Commissioner of the SEC, appointed twice by President Ronald Reagan. He served from 1981 to 1984. For over two decades, Longstreth was a partner in the New York-based law firm of Debevoise & Plimpton, where he spent all of his career as a lawyer, both before and after servicing as SEC commissioner.\n\nFrom 1994 to 1999, Longstreth was an Adjunct Professor at Columbia University School of Law, teaching the regulation of financial institutions. He has been a frequent speaker and lecturer on various securities and corporate law topics. He is a former member of the Board of Governors of the American Stock Exchange, a former director of INVESCO, plc, a former trustee of College Retirement Equities Fund and a former director of Grantham, Mayo & Van Otterloo. For many years he served on the Pension Finance Committee of The World Bank. , he serves on the board of New School University and is a member of the Council on Foreign Relations. He also serves on the board of The Highlands Current, a not-for-profit newspaper serving the Hudson River Valley.\n\nBevis Longstreth is a writer of historical novels. He has written three novels: \"Spindle and Bow\" (2005), \"Return of the Shade\" (2009), and \"Boats Against the Current\" (2016). Spindle and Bow is a story of love and adventure set in the 5th Century BC. The settings span some , from the ancient city of Sardis, at the western edge of the Persian Empire in Anatolia to the Scythian village of Pazyryk in the Altai Mountains of southwestern Siberia. The story answers many mysteries surrounding the Pazyryk, a perfectly preserved pile carpet measuring about six feet square discovered in 1949 in a royal Scythian tomb with a man, a woman and nine horses cut down in the prime of life. Scholars consider the Pazyryk a masterpiece of weaving technique and artistry dating from the Iron Age, some 400 years before the birth of Christ. It remains today the world’s oldest pile carpet. Longstreth is meticulous in his use of facts about the period and the carpet itself, using the accredited available historical sources. The carpet is now on view in the Hermitage Museum in St. Petersburg.\n\n\"Return of the Shade\" is the story of Queen Parysatis of Ancient Persia., a Queen and Queen Mother of the Persian Empire at its peak of power. She lived for about 60 years from around 444 to 384 BC, one and a half millennia ago. She was the purist strain of Persian, a direct descendent of Cyrus the Great, founder of the Achaemenid dynasty and of the Persian Empire, which lasted 220 years from 550 to 330 BC – a dynasty that brought stability, prosperity and a flourishing civilization to what we now call the Middle East and beyond. In its day, the largest and most powerful Empire the world had ever seen. It extended from the Indus River to North Africa, from the Aral Sea to the Persian Gulf, all told one million square miles.The Persian Empire had everything under the sun. Everything, that is, except a single historian to preserve for posterity its highs and lows. As seen through the eyes Greek historians, the Persians were weak and effeminate: a barbaric and despotic foil against which the courage, discipline, democracy, and culture of the Greek civilization could be set.\n\nLongstreth says of Parysatis, \"She was a forgotten Queen in a forgotten Empire, dismissed by the Greeks as hopelessly cruel. By working with the few facts about her that had been recorded by Greek historians such as Plutarch and Ctesias, it was possible -- much as it would be to divine an entire puzzle from a few important pieces -- to fill in the empty spaces with imagined accounts of Parysatis’ life: a life endowed with great power and the instinct to know how to use it; a life fraught with the drama of the Achaemenids, a royal line beset with patricides, fratricides and other wicked episodes so typical of the ruling classes at all points of the compass. Here, too, was a chance to illuminate an Empire cast in darkness by Greek writers.\"\n\n\"Boats Against the Current\" charts the struggles of six lives braided together in the Great Depression, with FDR's New Deal and its Works Progress Administration serving as armature for the story. These fictional characters blend with many historical figures, including Hallie Flanagan, head of the WPA's famous Theatre Project, Huey Long, the tyrant from Louisiana, and William Allen White, the editor and owner of \"The Emporia Gazette\" in Kansas.\n\nLongstreth is also the author of \"Modern Investment Management and the Prudent Man Rule\" (Oxford University Press, 1986), a book seeking to modernize the law governing investment management by fiduciaries.\n\nLongstreth was born in 1934, in New Jersey. He was originally known as Bevis Longstreth, Jr. His parents were Bevis and Mary (Shiras) Longstreth. They had five children:\n\n\nBevis Longstreth, Sr. was an industrialist, having taken over his mother's family's salt businesses, and upon selling them, starting Thiokol Corporation and leading it until his death in 1944.\n\nA graduate of Princeton University and Harvard Law School (1961, JD), Longstreth served as a First Lieutenant in the US Marine Corps from 1956-1958. He married Clara St. John, a musician, in 1963. They have three children. He has run the New York Marathon, and served on the board of Symphony Space.\n\nSon Benjamin Hoyt Longstreth married Molly Elissa Rauch, in a Jewish Reform ceremony, in July, 2000.\n"}
{"id": "58673348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58673348", "title": "Calcutta Theatre", "text": "Calcutta Theatre\n\nThe Calcutta Theatre or The New Playhouse, was an historic theatre in Calcutta (now named Kolkata) in India, founded in 1775. It was the second theatre in the city of Calcutta. \n\nThe first theatre in Calcutta, The Playhouse, was a modest local at the Lal Bazar, founded in 1756. It was replaced by the Calcutta Theatre, which was founded in 1775. It was situated near the Northern section of Clive Street and to the north of Writers Buildings, and built funded by the subscriptions sharers of one hundred rupees each. David Garrick of London recommended a Bernard Massinck or Massing to travel to India to take charge of the theatre. It became the leading theatre of Calcutta until the foundation of the Chowringhee Theatre, after which the two theatres became main rivals to each other. The theatre staged English plays in the English language by English actors. Initially , the theatre had an all male cast, with male actors doing the female roles, but after the foundation of the rival Chowringhee Theatre, which employed women, actresses where employed also at the Calcutta Theatre. In 1908, the building and the adjoining site was acquired by Gopi Mohan Tagore, who turned it into the New China Bazar.\n\n"}
{"id": "19934119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19934119", "title": "Carmen Guerrero Nakpil", "text": "Carmen Guerrero Nakpil\n\nCarmen Guerrero-Nakpil (née Carmen Francisco Guerrero; 19 July 1922 – 30 July 2018) was a Filipino journalist, author, historian and public servant.\n\nShe was born in Ermita, Manila, into the Guerrero clan of that town, who were painters and poets, as well as scientists and doctors.\n\nHer paternal grandfather was Leon Maria Guerrero, who was likewise born in Ermita, Manila. He was the younger brother of Lorenzo Guerrero, the painter and mentor to Juan Luna. Dr. Jose P. Bantug referred to Leon Ma. Guerrero as the \"Father of Philippine Botany\", having classified and described hundreds of Filipino medicinal plants.\n\nHer maternal grandfather was Gabriel Beato Francisco (18 March 1850 – 19 December 1935), Tagalog writer, journalist, novelist, playwright, born in Sampalok, then a town independent of Manila. Francisco's contribution to the development of Tagalog literature lies in the novel. Chronologically considered his \"Cababalaghan ni P. Bravo\" might be regarded as the first novel to be published in Tagalog literature. (This fact appears to be unknown to students and historians of Tagalog literature, not mentioned in Inigo Ed. Regalado's \"Ang Pagkaunlad ng Nobelang Tagalog\" (1939). Secondly, Francisco was responsible for introducing the historical genre in the beginning and early development of the Tagalog novel.\n\nHer parents were the prominent doctor Alfredo Guerrero and Filomena Francisco, who was celebrated as one of the Philippines' first female pharmacists.\n\nShe studied at St. Theresa's College, Manila and graduated with a Bachelor of Arts degree in 1942. \n\nBetween 1946 and 2006, she worked as either staff member, editor or editorial columnist at the Evening News, The Philippines Herald, the Manila Chronicle (where she had a daily column for 12 years), the Manila Times, Asia magazine, and Malaya, in addition to contributing lectures, essays, short stories to other publications in the Philippines and the rest of the world. She has published a total of ten books : Woman Enough, A Question of Identity, History Today, The Philippines and the Filipinos, The Rice Conspiracy (a novel), the Centennial Reader and Whatever; as well as a wildly successful autobiographical trilogy Myself, Elsewhere; Legends & Adventures; and Exeunt.\n\nIn the 1960s, she served as Chairman of the Philippine National Historical Commission and in the 1990s, the Manila Historical Commission, and director-general of the Technology Resource Center from 1975 to 1985. She was elected to the Executive Board of the UNESCO, Paris in 1983 by popular vote of the international assembly.\n\nMrs. Nakpil was married to Lt. Ismaél A. Cruz in 1942 and to architect and city planner Ángel E. Nákpil in 1950 and was widowed twice. She has five children, Gemma Cruz Araneta, Ismaél G. Cruz, Ramón Guerrero Nakpil, Lisa Guerrero Nákpil, and Luis Guerrero Nákpil, two step-daughters Nina Nákpil Campos and Carmina Nákpil Dualan, numerous grandchildren and a few great-grandchildren.\n\nHer family includes her brother, lawyer and diplomat, León María Guerrero, best known for his translations of Rizal's two novels, Noli Me Tangere and El Filibusterismo, as well as the prize-winning work on Jose Rizal, The First Filipino: her second brother Mario X. Guerrero, was one of the country's first foreign-trained cardiologists. Other well-known Guerreros include the poet and revolutionary Fernando María Guerrero and Dr. Manuel Guerrero and Dr. Luis Guerrero, both eminent physicians. Cousin Wilfrido María Guerrero was a playwright and stage director.\n\nNakpil passed away on 30 July 2018, 1:30AM.\n"}
{"id": "6889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6889", "title": "Census", "text": "Census\n\nA census is the procedure of systematically acquiring and recording information about the members of a given population. The term is used mostly in connection with national population and housing censuses; other common censuses include agriculture, business, and traffic censuses. The United Nations defines the essential features of population and housing censuses as \"individual enumeration, universality within a defined territory, simultaneity and defined periodicity\", and recommends that population censuses be taken at least every 10 years. United Nations recommendations also cover census topics to be collected, official definitions, classifications and other useful information to co-ordinate international practice.\n\nThe word is of Latin origin: during the Roman Republic, the census was a list that kept track of all adult males fit for military service. The modern census is essential to international comparisons of any kind of statistics, and censuses collect data on many attributes of a population, not just how many people there are. Censuses typically began as the only method of collecting national demographic data, and are now part of a larger system of different surveys. Although population estimates remain an important function of a census, including exactly the geographic distribution of the population, statistics can be produced about combinations of attributes e.g. education by age and sex in different regions. Current administrative data systems allow for other approaches to enumeration with the same level of detail but raise concerns about privacy and the possibility of biasing estimates.\n\nA census can be contrasted with sampling in which information is obtained only from a subset of a population; typically main population estimates are updated by such intercensal estimates. Modern census data are commonly used for research, business marketing, and planning, and as a baseline for designing sample surveys by providing a sampling frame such as an address register. Census counts are necessary to adjust samples to be representative of a population by weighting them as is common in opinion polling. Similarly, stratification requires knowledge of the relative sizes of different population strata which can be derived from census enumerations. In some countries, the census provides the official counts used to apportion the number of elected representatives to regions (sometimes controversially – e.g., \"Utah v. Evans\"). In many cases, a carefully chosen random sample can provide more accurate information than attempts to get a population census.\n\nA census is often construed as the opposite of a sample as its intent is to count everyone in a population rather than a fraction. However, population censuses rely on a sampling frame to count the population. This is the only way to be sure that everyone has been included as otherwise those not responding would not be followed up on and individuals could be missed. The fundamental premise of a census is that the population is not known and a new estimate is to be made by the analysis of primary data. \nThe use of a sampling frame is counterintuitive as it suggests that the population size is already known. However, a census is also used to collect attribute data on the individuals in the nation. This process of sampling marks the difference between historical census, which was a house to house process or the product of an imperial decree, and the modern statistical project.\nThe sampling frame used by census is almost always an address register. Thus it is not known if there is anyone resident or how many people there are in each household. Depending on the mode of enumeration, a form is sent to the householder, an enumerator calls, or administrative records for the dwelling are accessed. As a preliminary to the dispatch of forms, census workers will check any address problems on the ground.\nWhile it may seem straightforward to use the postal service file for this purpose, this can be out of date and some dwellings may contain a number of independent households. A particular problem is what are termed 'communal establishments' which category includes student residences, religious orders, homes for the elderly, people in prisons etc. As these are not easily enumerated by a single householder, they are often treated differently and visited by special teams of census workers to ensure they are classified appropriately.\n\nIndividuals are normally counted within households and information is typically collected about the household structure and the housing. For this reason international documents refer to censuses of population and housing. Normally the census response is made by a household, indicating details of individuals resident there.\nAn important aspect of census enumerations is determining which individuals can be counted from which cannot be counted. Broadly, three definitions can be used: \"de facto\" residence; \"de jure\" residence; and, permanent residence. This is important to consider individuals who have multiple or temporary addresses. Every person should be identified uniquely as resident in one place but where they happen to be on Census Day, their \"de facto\" residence, may not be the best place to count them. Where an individual uses services may be more useful and this is at their usual, or \"de jure\", residence. An individual may be represented at a permanent address, perhaps a family home for students or long term migrants.\nIt is necessary to have a precise definition of residence to decide whether visitors to a country should be included in the population count. This is becoming more important as students travel abroad for education for a period of several years. Other groups causing problems of enumeration are new born babies, refugees, people away on holiday, people moving home around census day, and people without a fixed address.\nPeople having second homes because of working in another part of the country or retaining a holiday cottage are difficult to fix at a particular address sometimes causing double counting or houses being mistakenly identified as vacant. Another problem is where people use a different address at different times e.g. students living at their place of education in term time but returning to a family home during vacations or children whose parents have separated who effectively have two family homes. Census enumeration has always been based on finding people where they live as there is no systematic alternative - any list you could use to find people is derived from census activities in the first place. Recent UN guidelines provide recommendation on enumerating such complex households.\n\nHistorical censuses used crude enumeration assuming absolute accuracy. Modern approaches take into account the problems of overcount and undercount, and the coherence of census enumerations with other official sources of data. This reflects a realist approach to measurement, acknowledging that under any definition of residence there is a true value of the population but this can never be measured with complete accuracy. An important aspect of the census process is to evaluate the quality of the data.\n\nMany countries use a post-enumeration survey to adjust the raw census counts. This works in a similar manner to capture-recapture estimation for animal populations. In census circles this method is called dual system enumeration (DSE). A sample of households are visited by interviewers who record the details of the household as at census day. These data are then matched to census records and the number of people missed can be estimated by considering the number missed in the census or survey but counted in the other. This way counts can be adjusted for non-response varying between different demographic groups. An explanation using a fishing analogy can be found in \"Trout, Catfish and Roach...\" which won an award from the Royal Statistical Society for excellence in official statistics in 2011.\n\nTriple system enumeration has been proposed as an improvement as it would allow evaluation of the statistical dependence of pairs of sources. However, as the matching process is the most difficult aspect of census estimation this has never been implemented for a national enumeration. It would also be difficult to identify three different sources that were sufficiently different to make the triple system effort worthwhile. The DSE approach has another weakness in that it assumes there is no person counted twice (over count). In \"de facto\" residence definitions this would not be a problem but in \"de jure\" definitions individuals risk being recorded on more than one form leading to double counting. A particular problem here are students who often have a term time and family address.\n\nSeveral countries have used a system which is known as short form/long form. This is a sampling strategy which randomly chooses a proportion of people to send a more detailed questionnaire to (the long form). Everyone receives the short form questions. Thereby more data are collected but not imposing a burden on the whole population. This also reduces the burden on the statistical office. Indeed, in the UK all residents were required to fill in the whole form but only a 10% sample were coded and analysed in detail, until 2001. New technology means that all data are now scanned and processed. Recently there has been controversy in Canada about the cessation of the long form with the head, Munir Sheikh resigning.\n\nThe use of alternative enumeration strategies is increasing but these are not so simple as many people assume and only occur in developed countries. The Netherlands has been most advanced in adopting a census using administrative data. This allows a simulated census to be conducted by linking several different administrative databases at an agreed time. Data can be matched and an overall enumeration established accounting for where the different sources are discrepant. A validation survey is still conducted in a similar way to the post enumeration survey employed in a traditional census.\nOther countries which have a population register use this as a basis for all the census statistics needed by users. This is most common among Nordic countries but requires a large number of different registers to be combined including population, housing, employment and education. These registers are then combined and brought up to the standard of a statistical register by comparing the data in different sources and ensuring the quality is sufficient for official statistics to be produced.\nA recent innovation is the French instigation of a rolling census programme with different regions enumerated each year such that the whole country is completely enumerated every 5 to 10 years. In Europe, in connection with the 2010 census round, a large number of countries adopted alternative census methodologies, often based on the combination of data from registers, surveys and other sources.\n\nCensuses have evolved in their use of technology with the latest censuses, the 2010 round, using many new types of computing. In Brazil, handheld devices were used by enumerators to locate residences on the ground. In many countries, census returns could be made via the Internet as well as in paper form. DSE is facilitated by computer matching techniques which can be automated, such as propensity score matching. In the UK, all census formats are scanned and stored electronically before being destroyed, replacing the need for physical archives. The record linking to perform an administrative census would not be possible without large databases being stored on computer systems.\n\nNew technology is not without problems in its introduction. The US census had intended to use the handheld computers but cost escalated and this was abandoned, with the contract being sold to Brazil. Online response is a good idea but one of the functions of census is to make sure everyone is counted accurately. A system which allowed people to enter their address without verification would be open to abuse. Therefore, households have to be verified on the ground, typically by an enumerator visit or post out. Paper forms are still necessary for those without access to Internet connections. It is also possible that the hidden nature of an administrative census means that users are not engaged with the importance of contributing their data to official statistics.\n\nAlternatively, population estimations may be carried out remotely with GIS and remote sensing technologies.\n\nAccording to UNFPA, “The information generated by a population and housing census – numbers of people, their distribution, their living conditions and other key data – is critical for development.” This is because this type of data is essential for policymakers so that they know where to invest. Unfortunately, many countries have outdated or inaccurate data about their populations and therefore, without accurate data are unable to address the needs of their population.\n\nUNFPA stated that,\n\n“The unique advantage of the census is that it represents the entire statistical universe, down to the smallest geographical units, of a country or region. Planners need this information for all kinds of development work, including: assessing demographic trends; analysing socio-economic conditions; designing evidence-based poverty-reduction strategies; monitoring and evaluating the effectiveness of policies; and tracking progress toward national and internationally agreed development goals.”\n\nIn addition to making policymakers aware about population issues, it is also an important tool for identifying forms of social, demographic or economic exclusions, such as inequalities relating to race, ethics and religion as well as disadvantaged groups such as those with disabilities and the poor.\n\nAn accurate census can empower local communities by providing them with the necessary information to participate in local decision-making and ensuring they are represented.\n\nIn the nineteenth century, the first censuses collected paper enumerations that had to be collated by hand so the statistical uses were very basic. The government owned the data and were able to publish statistics themselves on the state of the nation. Uses were to measure changes in the population and apportion representation. Population estimates could be compared to those of other countries.\n\nBy the beginning of the twentieth century, censuses were recording households and some indications of their employment. In some countries, census archives are released for public examination after many decades, allowing genealogists to track the ancestry of interested people. Archives provide a substantial historical record which may challenge established notions of tradition. It is also possible to understand the societal history through job titles and arrangements for the destitute and sick.\n\nThere are a lot of politics that surround the census in many countries. In Canada in 2010 for example, the government under the leadership of Stephen Harper abolished the mandatory long-form census. The decision to cut the long-form census was a response to protests from some Canadians who resented the personal questions. The long-form census was reinstated by the Justin Trudeau government in 2016.\n\nAs governments assumed responsibility for schooling and welfare, large government research departments made extensive use of census data. Actuarial estimates could be made to project populations and plan for provision in local government and regions. It was also possible for central government to allocate funding on the basis of census data.\nEven into the mid twentieth century, census data was only directly accessible to large government departments. However, computers meant that tabulations could be used directly by university researchers, large businesses and local government offices. They could use the detail of the data to answer new questions and add to local and specialist knowledge.\n\nNow, census data are published in a wide variety of formats to be accessible to business, all levels of governance, media, students and teachers, charities and any citizen who is interested; researchers in particular have an interest in the role of \"Census Field Officers\" (CFO) and their assistants. Data can be represented visually or analysed in complex statistical models, to show the difference between certain areas, or to understand the association between different personal characteristics. Census data offer a unique insight into small areas and small demographic groups which sample data would be unable to capture with precision.\n\nAlthough the census provides a useful way of obtaining statistical information about a population, such information can sometimes lead to abuses, political or otherwise, made possible by the linking of individuals' identities to anonymous census data. This consideration is particularly important when individuals' census responses are made available in microdata form, but even aggregate-level data can result in privacy breaches when dealing with small areas and/or rare subpopulations.\n\nFor instance, when reporting data from a large city, it might be appropriate to give the average income for black males aged between 50 and 60. However, doing this for a town that only has two black males in this age group would be a breach of privacy because either of those persons, knowing his own income and the reported average, could determine the other man's income.\n\nTypically, census data are processed to obscure such individual information. Some agencies do this by intentionally introducing small statistical errors to prevent the identification of individuals in marginal populations; others swap variables for similar respondents. Whatever measures have been taken to reduce the privacy risk in census data, new technology in the form of better electronic analysis of data poses increasing challenges to the protection of sensitive individual information. This is known as statistical disclosure control.\n\nAnother possibility is to present survey results by means of statistical models in the form of a multivariate distribution mixture. The statistical information in the form of conditional distributions (histograms) can be derived interactively from the estimated mixture model without any further access to the original database. As the final product does not contain any protected microdata, the model based interactive software can be distributed without any confidentiality concerns.\n\nAnother method is simply to release no data at all, except very large scale data directly to the central government. Different release strategies between government have led to an international project (IPUMS) to co-ordinate access to microdata and corresponding metadata. Such projects also promote standardising metadata by projects such as SDMX so that best use can be made of the minimal data available.\n\nCensuses in Egypt first appear in the late Middle Kingdom and develops in the New Kingdom Pharaoh Amasis, according to Herodotus, require every Egyptian to declare annually to the nomarch, \"whence he gained his living\". Under the Ptolemies and the Romans several censuses were conducted in Egypt by governments officials \n\nThere are several accounts of ancient Greek city states carrying out censuses.\n\nCensuses are mentioned in the Bible. God commands a per capita tax to be paid with the census in for the upkeep of the Tabernacle. The Book of Numbers is named after the counting of the Israelite population (in ) according to the house of the Fathers after the exodus from Egypt. A second census was taken while the Israelites were camped in the plains of Moab, in .\n\nKing David performed a census that produced disastrous results (in and ). His son, King Solomon, had all of the foreigners in Israel counted in .\n\nWhen the Romans took over Judea in 6, the legate Publius Sulpicius Quirinius organised a census for tax purposes. The Gospel of Luke links the birth of Jesus to this event. .\n\nOne of the world's earliest preserved censuses was held in China in 2 during the Han Dynasty, and is still considered by scholars to be quite accurate. Another census was held in 144.\n\nThe oldest recorded census in India is thought to have occurred around 300 during the reign of The Emperor Chandragupta Maurya under the leadership of Kautilya or Chanakya and Ashoka.\n\nThe word \"census\" originated in ancient Rome from the Latin word \"\" (\"to estimate\"). The census played a crucial role in the administration of the Roman Empire, as it was used to determine taxes. With few interruptions, it was usually carried out every five years. It provided a register of citizens and their property from which their duties and privileges could be listed. It is said to have been instituted by the Roman king Servius Tullius in the at which time the number of arms-bearing citizens was supposedly counted at around 80,000. The 6 \"census of Quirinius\" undertaken following the imposition of direct Roman rule in Judea was partially responsible for the development of the Zealot movement and several failed rebellions against Rome that ended in the Diaspora. The 15-year indiction cycle established by Diocletian in 297 was based on quindecennial censuses and formed the basis for dating in late antiquity and under the Byzantine Empire.\n\nIn the Middle Ages, the Caliphate began conducting regular censuses soon after its formation, beginning with the one ordered by the second Rashidun caliph, Umar.\n\nThe Domesday Book was undertaken in 1086 by William I of England so that he could properly tax the land he had recently conquered in medieval Europe. In 1183, a census was taken of the crusader Kingdom of Jerusalem, to ascertain the number of men and amount of money that could possibly be raised against an invasion by Saladin, sultan of Egypt and Syria.\n\nIn the 15th century, the Inca Empire had a unique way to record census information. The Incas did not have any written language but recorded information collected during censuses and other numeric information as well as non-numeric data on quipus, strings from llama or alpaca hair or cotton cords with numeric and other values encoded by knots in a base-10 positional system.\n\nOn May 25, 1577, King Philip II of Spain ordered by royal cédula the preparation of a general description of Spain's holdings in the Indies. Instructions and a questionnaire, issued in 1577 by the Office of the Cronista Mayor, were distributed to local officials in the Viceroyalties of New Spain and Peru to direct the gathering of information. The questionnaire, composed of fifty items, was designed to elicit basic information about the nature of the land and the life of its peoples. The replies, known as \",\" were written between 1579 and 1585 and were returned to the Cronista Mayor in Spain by the Council of the Indies.\n\nThe earliest estimate of the world population was made by Giovanni Battista Riccioli in 1661; the next by Johann Peter Süssmilch in 1741, revised in 1762; the third by Karl Friedrich Wilhelm Dieterici in 1859.\n\nIn 1931, Walter Willcox published a table in his book, \"International Migrations: Volume II Interpretations\", that estimated the 1929 world population to be roughly 1.8 billion.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53653447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53653447", "title": "Corine Schleif", "text": "Corine Schleif\n\nCorine Schleif is a professor and art historian who researches, teaches and writes about Medieval art, Renaissance art, feminist art theory, and the motivations behind the creating and destroying of art. She is faculty at Arizona State University's School of Art.\n\nCorine Schleif studied art history at Philipp University of Marburg and went on to Washington University in St. Louis to receive an M.A. in 1980. She then attended Free University of Berlin with a Fulbright scholarship which was renewed at Ludwig Maximilians University of Munich. She received her Doctorate (Dr. phil.) in art history (medieval history and religious studies minors) from University of Bamberg in 1986. In addition to being a Professor at ASU's School of Art, she is an Affiliate Professor at the Arizona Center for Medieval and Renaissance Studies (ACMRS).\n\nSchleif received the Berlin Prize from the American Academy as the John P. Birkelund Fellow in the Humanities for the Class of Spring 2016.\n\nSchleif's recent work has included \"opening the Geese Book\": \"A multisensory work of the past is explored through multimedia technologies of the present. A team of experts headed by Volker Schier and Corine Schleif opens the Geese Book to scholars and provides a window for broader audiences.\" She and Schier also developed a Virtual reality (VR) experience called \"Extraordinary Sensescapes: The Sensual World of Late Medieval Nuns\".\n\nFor a more complete and detailed list, see her CV external link below.\n\n"}
{"id": "4402879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4402879", "title": "Dejan Medaković", "text": "Dejan Medaković\n\nDejan Medaković (; 7 July 1922 – 1 July 2008) was a Serbian art historian, writer and academician. Medaković had served as President of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts from 1998 to 2003, as Dean of the University of Belgrade Faculty of Philosophy (1971–1973), and was a member of the Matica srpska as well as other scholarly associations.\n\nDejan Medaković was born on 7 July 1922 in Zagreb (then the Kingdom of the Serbs, Croats and Slovenes (now Croatia) in an old and distinguished ethnic Serb family. His father, Đorđe Medaković, was an economist; his mother, Anastazija, a housewife. His paternal grandfather, Bogdan Medaković, had been a political leader of Serbs in Croatia during the Austro-Hungarian reign, president of the Serb Independent Party and president of the Croat-Serb Coalition, and Speaker of the Croatian Sabor from 1908 to 1918. Dejan Medaković's great-grandfather Danilo had lived in the Kingdom of Serbia and held various positions in the administrations of princes Miloš and Mihailo Obrenović. On his mother's side he was a descendant of Austrian military nobility.\n\nMedaković finished his lower gymnasium education on the island of Badija near Korčula on the southern Adriatic coast, before moving to Sremski Karlovci, where he finished his higher gymnasium studies. During the Second World War he lived in Belgrade as a refugee. From 1942 to 1946 he worked as a volunteer-assistant in Prince Pavle's Museum in Belgrade (today the National Museum of Serbia). He graduated in 1949 and later got his doctorate in 1954 at the Belgrade Faculty of Philosophy, in the Art History Department.\n\nHe became a member of the faculty at the University of Belgrade in 1954, where he would remain until his retirement in 1982. Between 1971 and 1973 he was also the dean of the Faculty of Philosophy. He was elected as a corresponding member of the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts (SANU) in 1972 and was promoted to a full member in 1981. He was also a member of the European Academy of Sciences and Arts in based in Salzburg, the Austrian Society for Eighteenth-Century Studies (ÖGE 18), the Leibniz Society in Berlin, member of the Matica srpska Council in Novi Sad, and the president of the Vuk Karadžić Foundation Assembly.\n\nHe held various positions at SANU: he was the Secretary of the Department for Historical Sciences (1981–85), the Secretary General of the Academy (1985–94), and in 1999 Medaković was elected President of SANU, a post which he held until 2003. At Matica srpska he was in charge of the Department of Art History. He edited the \"Fine Arts Digest of Matica srpska\" journal (). His research interests included a wide scope of topics in art history and art criticism, from Serbian medieval art to modern painting, but his main fields of expertise were Serbian Baroque painting and general cultural circumstances of the 18th century, as well as Serbian art of the 19th century.\n\nMedaković was also a writer and a poet. He published many studies, essays, monographs, reviews and articles on various topics ranging from new developments in arts to current social and political issues. His studies have been collected and published in several books: \"Serbian Painters of the 18th Century\" (1968), \"The Paths of Serbian Baroque\", \"Testimonials\" (1984), \"Explorers of Serbian Antiquity\" (1985), and \"Baroque and Serbs\" (1988). He was also a major contributor to the six-volume \"History of the Serb People\" (1981–1993), and other important publications such as \"Serbian Art of the 18th Century\" (1980), and \"Serbian Art of the 19th Century\" (1981).\n\nIn addition, he authored several important art monographs and studies dealing with cultural heritage of the Serbian Orthodox Church, writing about the monasteries of Hilandar and Savina. Other important works by Medaković include \"The Chronicles of Serbs in Trieste\" (1987), \"Serbs in Vienna\", \"Serbs in Zagreb\", \"Images of Belgrade in Old Etchings\", \"Selected Serbian themes\", and \"Letters\". Medaković also penned five books of poetry, and an autobiographical prose cycle titled \"Ephemeris\".\n\nMedaković was the recipient of many distinguished awards and honours: the Herder Prize; the Anton Gindely Prize; the City of Belgrade October Award; the Prosveta Annual Award; the Order of Merit of the Federal Republic of Germany (\"Bundesverdienstkreuz\"); the Austrian Cross of Honour for Science and Arts; the Gold Medal of Merit of the Republic of Hungary, the Medal of Vuk Karadžić of the First Order, and many others.\n\nHe died from cancer on 1 July 2008, at the Oncological Institute of Belgrade Hospital.\n\n\n\n\n\nMemoirs, autobiographical prose, letters, speeches:\n\n"}
{"id": "174717", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=174717", "title": "Dugald Stewart", "text": "Dugald Stewart\n\nDugald Stewart (; 22 November 175311 June 1828) was a Scottish philosopher and mathematician. He is best known for popularizing the Scottish Enlightenment and his lectures at the University of Edinburgh were widely disseminated by his many influential students. In 1783 he was a joint founder of the Royal Society of Edinburgh. In most contemporary documents he is referred to as Prof Dougal Stewart.\n\nHe was the son of Matthew Stewart (1715–1785), professor of mathematics at the University of Edinburgh (1747–1772), and was born in his father's quarters at Old College. His mother was Marjory Stewart, his father's cousin.\n\nHe was educated at the High School and the University of Edinburgh, where he studied mathematics and moral philosophy under Adam Ferguson. In 1771, in the hope of gaining a Snell Exhibition Scholarship and proceeding to Oxford to study for the English Church, he went to the University of Glasgow to attend the classes of Thomas Reid. To Reid he later owed his theory of morality. In Glasgow, Stewart boarded in the same house as Archibald Alison, author of the \"Essay on Taste\", and a lasting friendship sprang up between them.\n\nAfter a single session in Glasgow University, at the age of nineteen, Dugald was asked by his father, whose health was beginning to fail, to give his mathematical classes in the University of Edinburgh. After three years there, in 1775, Dugald was elected joint professor of mathematics in conjunction with his father. Three years later Ferguson was appointed secretary to the commissioners sent out to the American colonies, and at his request Stewart lectured as his substitute during the session 1778–1779, delivering an original course of lectures on morals. In his early years he was influenced by Lord Monboddo, with whom he corresponded.\n\nIn 1785 Stewart succeeded Ferguson in the chair of moral philosophy, which he filled for twenty-five years, making it a centre of intellectual and moral influence. Young men were attracted by his reputation from England, Europe and America. Stewart's course on moral philosophy embraced, besides ethics proper, lectures on political philosophy or the theory of government.\n\nStewart spent the summers of 1788 and 1789 in France, where he met Suard, Degérando, and Raynal, and came to sympathise with the revolutionary movement. His political teaching, after the French Revolution, drew suspicion on him.\n\nFrom 1800 to 1801, Stewart gave lectures to undergraduate students on the subject of political economy, the first person to do so.\n\nIn 1800 he appears as \"Dougald Stewart, professor of moral philosophy\" living at Lothian House near the bottom of the Canongate.\n\nIn 1806 Stewart received in lieu of a pension the nominal office of the writership of the \"Edinburgh Gazette\", with a salary of £300. When he ceased lecturing during the session of 1809–1810, his place was taken, at his own request, by Thomas Brown, who in 1810 was appointed conjoint professor. On the death of Brown in 1820 Stewart retired altogether from the professorship. His successor was John Wilson, known as \"Christopher North\".\n\nFrom 1809 onwards Stewart lived mainly at Kinneil House, Bo'ness, which was placed at his disposal by the Duke of Hamilton. In June 1814 he was elected a Fellow of the Royal Society. He was elected a Foreign Honorary Member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1817.\n\nIn 1822 he was struck with paralysis, but recovered a fair degree of health, sufficient to enable him to resume his studies. He died in Edinburgh on 11 June 1828, where he was buried in Canongate Churchyard, close to his Edinburgh residence. He is buried in an enclosed vault in the lower section, on its west side.\n\nIn 1831, and of great public note, a monument was erected by the city on Calton Hill. This is to a design by William Henry Playfair and holds a commanding position in the city skyline, forming one of the city's iconic landmarks.\n\nHis memory is also honoured by the \"Dugald Stewart Building\" (erected 2011) for the University of Edinburgh to house its Philosophy Department, on Charles Street, off George Square.\n\nStewart as a student in Glasgow wrote an essay on \"Dreaming\". In 1792 he published the first volume of the \"Elements of the Philosophy of the Human Mind\"; the second volume appeared in 1814, the third not till 1827. In 1793 he printed a textbook, \"Outlines of Moral Philosophy\", which went through many editions; and in the same year he read before the Royal Society of Edinburgh his \"Account of the Life and Writings of Adam Smith\". Similar memoirs of Robertson the historian and of Reid were afterwards read before the same body and appear in his published works.\n\nIn 1805 Stewart published pamphlets defending John Leslie against the charges of unorthodoxy made by the presbytery of Edinburgh. In 1810 appeared the \"Philosophical Essays\", in 1814 the second volume of the \"Elements\", in 1811 the first part and in 1821 the second part of the \"Dissertation\" written for the \"Encyclopædia Britannica Supplement\", entitled \"A General View of the Progress of Metaphysical, Ethical, and Political Philosophy since the Revival of Letters.\" In 1827 he published the third volume of the \"Elements\", and in 1828, a few weeks before his death, \"The Philosophy of the Active and Moral Powers\".\n\nStewart's works were edited in 11 vols. (1854–1858) by Sir William Hamilton and completed with a memoir by John Veitch.\n\nAmong Stewart's pupils were Lord Palmerston, Sir Walter Scott, Francis Jeffrey, Henry Thomas Cockburn, Francis Horner, Sydney Smith, John William Ward, Lord Brougham, Dr. Thomas Brown, James Mill, Sir James Mackintosh and Sir Archibald Alison.\n\nHis reputation rested as much on his eloquence, populism, and style as on original work. He was principally responsible for making the \"Scottish philosophy\" predominant in early 19th-century Europe. In the second half of the century, Stewart's reputation fell to that of a follower of the work of Thomas Reid.\n\nStewart upheld Reid's psychological method and expounded the Scottish Common Sense Realism, which was attacked by James Mill and John Stuart Mill. Part of his originality lay in his incorporation of elements of moderate empiricism and the French ideologists Laromiguière, Cabanis and Destutt de Tracy. He opposed the argument of ontology, and Condillac's sensationalism. Immanuel Kant, he said, he could not understand.\n\nIn 1783 Stewart married Helen Bannatyne (a distant cousin), who died in 1787, leaving him an only son, Matthew Stewart FRSE (1784-1851). In 1790 he married Helen D'Arcy Cranstoun, sister of George Cranstoun. His second wife was well-born and accomplished, and he was in the habit of submitting to her criticism whatever he wrote. They had a son and a daughter. The son's death in 1809 brought about his retirement from the active duties of his chair.\n\nHis sister, Janet Stewart, married Rev Thomas Miller of Cumnock, and they were parents to Dr Patrick Miller FRSE (1782-1871).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14835805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14835805", "title": "Edgeir Benum", "text": "Edgeir Benum\n\nEdgeir Reidar Benum (born 13 October 1939) is a Norwegian historian.\n\nHe was born in Verdal, and is the younger brother of athlete Pål Benum. He graduated from the University of Oslo with a cand.philol. degree in 1967, and worked as a scholarship holder there from 1968 to 1972. He then became a professor in history at the University of Tromsø from 1972 to 1980 and then at the University of Oslo since 1980. He has twice been a visiting scholar at the University of California, Berkeley. He is a member of the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters.\n\nThis is a list of his most notable works:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18943340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18943340", "title": "Fame in the 20th Century", "text": "Fame in the 20th Century\n\nFame in the 20th Century is a 1993 BBC documentary television series and book by Clive James. The book and series examined the phenomenon of fame and how it expanded to international mass media proportions throughout the 20th century. The 8 episodes were divided in roughly 8 decades, from the 1900s to the 1980s. Each episode highlighted world-famous people during that part of the century. James delivered interesting and amusing comments about the portrayed celebrities and the various ways they became famous.\n\nIn the United States, the series were broadcast on PBS, though some footage was occasionally cut if the rights to it were too expensive. The series has never been repeated on television since, which James attributes to the fact that \"every inch of footage in the gigantic compilation belonged to some agency legally equipped to charge the Earth.\" \n\nJames and his team developed the series as a study on the concept fame, and more specifically \"world fame\". They focused on over 250 people who are \"undeniably world famous\". Certain artists, musicians or sports figures became well known even for people who don't know much about their field. Louis Armstrong is for instance world-famous, even for non-jazz fans or experts. Pelé became the most famous association football player, even in the US: one of the few countries in the world where the sport isn't popular. People who know nothing about art have heard of the name Pablo Picasso and know his style. People who are not interested in tennis have heard of John McEnroe, due to his bad behavior on the tennis court. More people know Luciano Pavarotti than Plácido Domingo.\n\nClive James focused on fame in the 20th century, because the arrival of mass media, film and television changed forever the ways people became famous. In previous centuries people could only become famous by doing something that was remembered ages later. Julius Caesar and Napoleon Bonaparte conquered countries, Jesus Christ developed a religion, ... In the 20th century people could become world-famous in less than no time and without doing anything, thanks to the arrival of mass media. Movie stars like Charlie Chaplin, for instance, became global stars due to the nearly universal reach of film. James cites Chaplin as the first truly world-famous 20th century celebrity. The invention of the film close-up made people on film screens appear larger than life and thus increased the emotional involvement of the audience. This often led to mass hysteria and confusion between an actor's stage persona and the roles he played on the screen (as in the case of Rudolph Valentino). Certain politicians in the century have used the media to promote their own image to the public, for instance John F. Kennedy, who looked like a movie star, and Ronald Reagan who was a former movie star.\n\nPeople could become world-famous in a matter of a few days. Orson Welles became notorious after his radio play \"The War of the Worlds\" caused mass hysteria in the United States. Salman Rushdie, who was already known in literary circles, became a household name to the broader public due to the fatwa spoken out against him in 1989. Clive James sees the US as the place where this new type of mass media fame was born. According to him international fame is only possible if the celebrity becomes famous in the USA. Cricketer Jack Hobbs was world-famous throughout the British Empire in the interbellum, but unknown in countries where cricket was not popular, like the USA. Babe Ruth however became internationally famous even though baseball was played hardly anywhere else outside the US.\n\nOther celebrities have been around for so long that the reason they originally became famous has been almost forgotten. Elizabeth Taylor has been cited by James as an example of someone who originally achieved fame as an actress, but later became more famous for her weddings and lifestyle. As James observed, the fame of some celebrities fades away after a few years. Silent movie stars like Florence Lawrence and William S. Hart, for instance, have nowadays sunk into obscurity. Other celebrities have become more famous over time. James cites T.E. Lawrence as an example. The British military officer became famous during World War One, but only became truly world-famous with the general public thanks to the 1962 movie \"Lawrence of Arabia.\" Celebrities like Charlie Chaplin, Frank Sinatra, Elvis Presley, Marilyn Monroe, Madonna, Michael Jackson, The Beatles on the other hand, have never remained out of publicity and are nowadays famous for simply being who they are. Some people became famous due to their association with other celebrities. Examples are Yoko Ono (the wife of Beatle John Lennon), Lady Diana (who married Prince Charles in 1981) and Wallis Simpson (whose affair with King Edward VIII of the United Kingdom caused his abdication). Another phenomenon examined in the series is the change of someone's fame during time and thanks to mass media coverage. Charles Lindbergh, first famous as an aviation pioneer, became, to his horror, even more famous when his son was kidnapped and murdered.Dwight Eisenhower's fame as a general in World War II helped him win the presidential election a decade later.Joseph McCarthy used the media in his hunt against communism, but in the end the media worked against him. Elvis Presley's fame grew to legendary proportions after his death, when he sold more albums than during his lifetime.\n\nWhen Clive James was asked by Charlie Rose in 1993 to name the three most famous people of the century, he cited Elvis Presley, Mohammed Ali, and Bruce Lee. He also mentioned Adolf Hitler, saying, \"but the fact is the young Neo-Nazis in Germany now don't really know much about Hitler. So that kind of fame not necessarily lasts.\"\n\nThe television series made use of seldom seen archive material and world-famous photographs, film and audio material where celebrities did or said famous things. Sometimes the footage wasn't that famous, but was used as a typical example of what the public associates with the celebrity or to show them during a more casual moment, instead of as an icon. Examples are:\n\n\nClive James included them because these celebrities were internationally famous at the turn of the 19th century into the 20th century.\n\nWilliam Randolph Hearst, Thomas Alva Edison, Queen Victoria of the United Kingdom, Leon Tolstoy, Arthur Conan Doyle, Rudyard Kipling, Sarah Bernhardt, Isadora Duncan and Buffalo Bill.\n\nEnrico Caruso,\nWilbur Wright and Orville Wright,\nLouis Blériot,\nMarie Curie,\nTheodore Roosevelt,\nFlorence Lawrence,\nFrancis X. Bushman,\nWilliam S. Hart,\nTheda Bara,\nHarry Houdini,\nRobert Falcon Scott,\nRoald Amundsen,\nHenry James,\nJack Johnson,\nWilhelm II,\nPaul von Hindenburg,\nFerdinand Foch,\nGeorge V of the United Kingdom,\nLloyd George,\nLord Kitchener,\nThe Red Baron,\nT. E. Lawrence (Lawrence of Arabia),\nMata Hari,\nLenin,\nHenry Ford,\nDouglas Fairbanks,\nMary Pickford,\nCharlie Chaplin,\nGreta Garbo,\nJohn Gilbert,\nSigmund Freud,\nPablo Picasso,\nIgor Stravinsky,\nAlbert Einstein,\nAlbert Schweitzer \n\nSuzanne Lenglen,\nAnna Pavlova,\nNellie Melba,\nAmy Johnson,\nMalcolm Campbell,\nHenry Seagrave,\nJack Hobbs,\nDonald Bradman,\nBabe Ruth,\nJack Dempsey,\nCharles Lindbergh,\nAl Capone,\nLouis Armstrong,\nDuke Ellington,\nJosephine Baker,\nF. Scott Fitzgerald,\nRudolph Valentino,\nD. H. Lawrence,\nJames Joyce,\nCoco Chanel,\nNoël Coward,\nGertrude Lawrence,\nAl Jolson,\nBuster Keaton,\nLaurel and Hardy,\nT. S. Eliot,\nMarlene Dietrich,\nMaurice Chevalier,\nJeanette MacDonald,\nNelson Eddy,\nMae West,\nGeorge Gershwin,\nFred Astaire,\nGinger Rogers,\nBruno Hauptmann \n\nBenito Mussolini,\nGeorge Bernard Shaw,\nAdolf Hitler,\nRudolf Hess,\nJoseph Goebbels,\nHermann Göring,\nHeinrich Himmler,\nEva Braun,\nJohnny Weissmuller,\nFranklin D. Roosevelt,\nEleanor Roosevelt,\nMohandas Karamchand Gandhi,\nThe Marx Brothers,\nBing Crosby,\nShirley Temple,\nArturo Toscanini,\nWalt Disney,\nGary Cooper,\nHoward Hughes,\nAmy Johnson,\nJames Stewart,\nHenry Fonda,\nJames Cagney,\nJohn Wayne,\nErrol Flynn,\nClark Gable,\nVivien Leigh,\nJean Harlow,\nEdward G. Robinson,\nJoan Crawford,\nBette Davis,\nKatharine Hepburn,\nSpencer Tracy,\nErnest Hemingway,\nFrancisco Franco,\nOrson Welles,\nEdward VIII of the United Kingdom,\nWallis Simpson,\nGeorge VI of the United Kingdom,\nSalvador Dalí,\nJesse Owens,\nJoe Louis,\nMax Schmeling,\nNeville Chamberlain,\nJoseph Stalin,\nJudy Garland,\nJ. Edgar Hoover,\nBillie Holiday \n\nWinston Churchill,\nCharles de Gaulle,\nPhilippe Pétain,\nBob Hope,\nHumphrey Bogart,\nIngrid Bergman,\nHirohito,\nHideki Tōjō,\nIsoroku Yamamoto,\nErwin Rommel,\nBernard Law Montgomery,\nLord Louis Mountbatten,\nGeorge Formby, Jr.,\nGracie Fields,\nVera Lynn,\nLaurence Olivier,\nDouglas MacArthur,\nDavid Niven,\nRonald Reagan,\nFrank Sinatra,\nBenny Goodman,\nCary Grant,\nTommy Dorsey,\nArtie Shaw,\nHarry James,\nGene Krupa,\nGlenn Miller,\nBetty Grable,\nRita Hayworth,\nDwight Eisenhower,\nGeorge Patton,\nJean-Paul Sartre,\nSimone de Beauvoir,\nJean Cocteau,\nChester W. Nimitz,\nHarry S. Truman,\nAva Gardner,\nAudie Murphy,\nGuy Gibson,\nDouglas Bader,\nMao Zedong,\nAlfred Hitchcock,\nCharlie Parker,\nMargot Fonteyn \n\nLiberace,\nLucille Ball,\nEdmund Hillary,\nTenzing Norgay,\nRoger Bannister,\nElizabeth II,\nRichard Nixon,\nJoseph McCarthy,\nEdward Murrow,\nPaul Robeson,\nRichard Burton,\nGene Kelly,\nSophia Loren,\nDean Martin and Jerry Lewis,\nMarilyn Monroe,\nJoe DiMaggio,\nArthur Miller,\nJack Lemmon,\nTony Curtis,\nBrigitte Bardot,\nBilly Graham,\nDiana Dors,\nGuy Gibson,\nRichard Todd,\nKenneth More,\nAlec Guinness,\nGrace Kelly,\nRainier III,\nHugh Hefner,\nDoris Day,\nRock Hudson,\nMiles Davis,\nFarouk I,\nAga Khan III,\nPrince Aly Khan,\nJuan Manuel Fangio,\nStirling Moss,\nCharlton Heston,\nAristotle Onassis,\nMaria Callas,\nEvita Peron,\nMarlon Brando,\nJames Dean,\nBill Haley,\nElvis Presley,\nColonel Tom Parker,\nPele,\nNikita Khrushchev,\nFidel Castro \n\nJohn F. Kennedy,\nJacqueline Kennedy,\nElizabeth Taylor,\nSean Connery,\nChristine Keeler,\nJohn Profumo,\nSammy Davis, Jr.,\nPeter Sellers,\nSteve McQueen,\nRudolph Nureyev,\nYuri Gagarin,\nLee Harvey Oswald,\nJack Ruby,\nLyndon B. Johnson,\nThe Beatles,\nThe Rolling Stones,\nBrian Epstein,\nMaharishi Mahesh Yogi,\nYoko Ono,\nBob Dylan,\nChe Guevara,\nWilliam Calley,\nMuhammad Ali,\nMartin Luther King,\nRobert Kennedy,\nJane Fonda,\nLeonid Brezhnev,\nWilliam Shatner,\nClint Eastwood,\nNeil Armstrong,\nCharles Manson,\nAndy Warhol,\nPrince Charles \n\nHenry Kissinger,\nMother Teresa,\nAl Pacino,\nCher,\nElton John,\nJack Nicholson,\nWarren Beatty,\nRobert Redford,\nRobert De Niro,\nPaul Newman,\nRaymond Burr (as Ironside),\nWilliam Conrad (as Cannon),\nPeter Falk (as Columbo),\nJames Garner (as Jim Rockford in \"The Rockford Files\"),\nTelly Savalas (as Kojak),\nThe Osmonds,\nGerald Ford,\nMark Spitz,\nBobby Fischer,\nOlga Korbut,\nAlexander Solzhenitsyn,\nJodie Foster,\nBjörn Borg,\nBillie Jean King,\nChris Evert,\nJohn McEnroe,\nABBA,\nBruce Lee,\nDavid Bowie,\nPatty Hearst,\nIdi Amin,\nWoody Allen,\nDustin Hoffman,\nSteven Spielberg,\nBarbra Streisand,\nJohn Travolta,\nGeorge Lucas,\nAndreas Baader and Ulrike Meinhof,\nThe Sex Pistols,\nJimmy Carter,\nPope John Paul II,\nMeryl Streep,\nLarry Hagman (as J. R. Ewing in \"Dallas\"),\nRuhollah Khomeini \n\nLech Wałęsa,\nMargaret Thatcher,\nMark David Chapman,\nJohn Hinckley, Jr.,\nSylvester Stallone,\nLady Diana,\nMichael Jackson,\nJoan Collins,\nArnold Schwarzenegger,\nMadonna,\nOprah Winfrey,\nEddie Murphy,\nBill Cosby,\nBob Geldof,\nOliver North,\nNelson Mandela,\nMikhail Gorbachev,\nDonald Trump,\nMartina Navratilova,\nMuammar al-Gaddafi,\nGeorge H. W. Bush,\nTom Cruise,\nJulia Roberts,\nMel Gibson,\nHarrison Ford,\nSalman Rushdie,\nVáclav Havel,\nBruce Willis,\nMike Tyson,\nSaddam Hussein,\nNorman Schwarzkopf,\nLuciano Pavarotti \n\n"}
{"id": "46322374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46322374", "title": "Fauba Archaeological Site", "text": "Fauba Archaeological Site\n\nThe Fauba Archaeological Site is a prehistoric stoneworks on a mountain ridge on Tol Island in Chuuk State of the Federated States of Micronesia. The site consists of an area enclosed by a stone wall that is roughly triangular in shape. The wall is between 1 and 1.5 meters in height, and is about 1 meter thick. The enclosed area includes a number of stone platforms, and there is a refuse midden outside the enclosure that is believed to be associated with the site. The exact purpose of the site is a subject of debate: although its siting has obvious military benefits (including commanding views of Chuuk Lagoon and other islands of the atoll, it is not clear that it actually saw military activity.\n\nThe site was listed on the United States National Register of Historic Places in 1978, when the region was part of the US-administered Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands.\n\n"}
{"id": "3266418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3266418", "title": "Ferdinando Castagnoli", "text": "Ferdinando Castagnoli\n\nFerdinando Castagnoli (born in Prato June 18, 1917; died in Marina di Pietrasanta July 28, 1988) was a Roman topographer who taught at the University of Rome.\n\nAmong Castagnoli's fieldwork accomplishments was the amazing discovery of the Latin sanctuary at Lavinium (modern Pratica di Mare) and its series of 13 altars, a find that was revealed to the world in 1959. Also at the site is the so-called heroon of Aeneas.\n\nCastagnoli was a student of Giuseppe Lugli. Among his students was Adriano La Regina, a former archaeological superintendent of Rome.\n\nHe was a member of Accademia Nazionale dei Lincei.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4910842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4910842", "title": "Follins Pond", "text": "Follins Pond\n\nFollins Pond is a brackish lake located on Cape Cod, separating the towns of Dennis, Massachusetts, and Yarmouth, Massachusetts. The lake is connected to Nantucket Sound via the Bass River.\n\nFollins Pond is noteworthy primarily because there has been an attempt to connect it to the semi-legendary lost Norse colony of Vinland.\nIn the 1950s, Frederick J. Pohl investigated Follins Pond and claimed that he had located shore rocks along the pond into which were drilled holes that strongly resembled Norse mooring stones. The Norse were known to drill holes into which iron pins were inserted for the purpose of mooring their \"knarrer\".\n\nAdditionally, Pohl claimed that he had uncovered the tops of posts about a foot underground, arranged in a pattern that might have been that of either a Norse shipyard or drydock. Further, at about the same time a claimed \"Viking horse bone\" may have been unearthed at Follins Pond. Pohl was of the opinion that at least a few horses were brought from Greenland by the Norse on their further voyages of exploration. Pohl published a book entitled \"The lost discovery: Uncovering the track of the Vikings in America\" (New York: Norton. 1952) which detailed this claim. It is not taken seriously by professional historians, as the evidence presented is rather scant and no archaeological finds of any significance have been made in the area since.\n\nSome of the road names around Follins Pond seem to reflect this theory. A \"Norsemans Beach Road\" can be found on the eastern shore of the lake, a \"Norse Road\" on the north shore of the lake, and a \"Valhalla Drive\" and \"Erik's Path\" close to the south shore.\nAdditionally, along the shore of a smaller body of water known as Kelleys Bay joined to Follins Pond by the Bass River can be found \"Vinland Drive\", \"Skerry Road\", \"Saga Road\", \"Fiord Drive\", \"Freydis Drive\", and \"Lief Ericson Drive (sic)\".\nFurther south, along the shores of the Bass River, can be found \"Lief's Lane\", \"Legend Drive\", \"Old Saga Drive\", \"Rune Stone Road\", \"Viking Rock Road\", \"Keel Cape Drive\", \"Erickson Way\", and \"Mooring Lane\".\n\nIn addition, articles about the purported past of Follins Pond occasionally turn up in the \"Cape Cod Times\" and other local newspapers.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25869325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25869325", "title": "Genetic history of indigenous peoples of the Americas", "text": "Genetic history of indigenous peoples of the Americas\n\nThe genetic history of Indigenous peoples of the Americas (also named Amerindians or Amerinds in physical anthropology) is divided into two sharply distinct episodes: \nthe initial peopling of the Americas during about 20,000 to 14,000 years ago (20–14 kya), and European contact, after about 500 years ago. The former is the determinant factor for the number of genetic lineages, zygosity mutations and founding haplotypes present in today's Indigenous Amerindian populations.\n\nMost Amerindians groups are derived from a basal Ancestral lineage, which formed in Siberia prior to the Last Glacial Maximum, between about 36,000 and 25,000 years ago, from a combination of Proto-Mongoloid and Ancient North Eurasian ancestry and which dispersed throughout the Americas after about 16,000 years ago (an exception are the Na Dene and Eskimo–Aleut speaking groups, which are partially derived from Siberian populations which entered the Americas at a later time).\n\nIn the early 2000s, archaeogenetics was primarily based on Human Y-chromosome DNA haplogroups and Human mitochondrial DNA haplogroups. Autosomal \"atDNA\" markers are also used, but differ from mtDNA or Y-DNA in that they overlap significantly.\n\nAnalyses of genetics among Amerindian and Siberian populations have been used to argue for early isolation of founding populations on Beringia and for later, more rapid migration from Siberia through Beringia into the New World. The microsatellite diversity and distributions of the Y lineage specific to South America indicates that certain Amerindian populations have been isolated since the initial colonization of the region. The Na-Dené, Inuit and Indigenous Alaskan populations exhibit Haplogroup Q-M242; however, they are distinct from other indigenous Amerindians with various mtDNA and atDNA mutations. This suggests that the peoples who first settled in the northern extremes of North America and Greenland derived from later migrant populations than those who penetrated farther south in the Americas. Linguists and biologists have reached a similar conclusion based on analysis of Amerindian language groups and ABO blood group system distributions.\n\nGenetic diversity and population structure in the American landmass is also measured using autosomal (atDNA) micro-satellite markers genotyped; sampled from North, Central, and South America and analyzed against similar data available from other indigenous populations worldwide. The Amerindian populations show a lower genetic diversity than populations from other continental regions. Observed is a decreasing genetic diversity as geographic distance from the Bering Strait occurs, as well as a decreasing genetic similarity to Siberian populations from Alaska (the genetic entry point).\nAlso observed is evidence of a higher level of diversity and lower level of population structure in western South America compared to eastern South America. There is a relative lack of differentiation between Mesoamerican and Andean populations, a scenario that implies that coastal routes were easier for migrating peoples (more genetic contributors) to traverse in comparison with inland routes.\n\nThe over-all pattern that is emerging suggests that the Americas were colonized by a small number of individuals (effective size of about 70), which grew by a factor of 10 over 800 – 1000 years. The data also shows that there have been genetic exchanges between Asia, the Arctic, and Greenland since the initial peopling of the Americas.\n\nMoreno-Mayar et al. (2018) have identified a basal Ancestral Native American (ANA) lineage.\nThis lineage formed by admixture of early East Asian and Ancient North Eurasian lineages prior to the \nLast Glacial Maximum, ca. 36–25 kya. Basal ANA diverged into an \"Ancient Beringian\" (AB) lineage at ca. 20 kya. \nThe non-AB lineage further diverged into \"Northern Native American\" (NNA) and \"Southern Native American\" (SNA) lineages between about 17.5 and 14.6 kya. Most pre-Columbian lineages are derived from NNA and SNA, except for the American Arctic, where there is evidence of later (after 10kya) admixture from Paleo-Siberian lineages.\n\nIn 2014, the autosomal DNA of a 12,500+-year-old infant from Montana was sequenced. The DNA was taken from a skeleton referred to as Anzick-1, found in close association with several Clovis artifacts. Comparisons showed strong affinities with DNA from Siberian sites, and virtually ruled out that particular individual had any close affinity with European sources (the \"Solutrean hypothesis\"). The DNA also showed strong affinities with all existing Amerindian populations, which indicated that all of them derive from an ancient population that lived in or near Siberia, the Upper Palaeolithic Mal'ta population.\n\nAccording to an autosomal genetic study from 2012, Native Americans descend of at least three main migrant waves from East Asia. Most of it is traced back to a single ancestral population, called 'First Americans'. However, those who speak Inuit languages from the Arctic inherited almost half of their ancestry from a second East Asian migrant wave. And those who speak Na-dene, on the other hand, inherited a tenth of their ancestry from a third migrant wave. The initial settling of the Americas was followed by a rapid expansion southwards, by the coast, with little gene flow later, especially in South America. One exception to this are the Chibcha speakers, whose ancestry comes from both North and South America.\nLinguistic studies have backed up genetic studies, with ancient patterns having been found between the languages spoken in Siberia and those spoken in the Americas.\n\nTwo 2015 autosomal DNA genetic studies confirmed the Siberian origins of the Natives of the Americas. However an ancient signal of shared ancestry with Australasians (Natives of Australia, Melanesia and the Andaman Islands) was detected among the Natives of the Amazon region. The migration coming out of Siberia would have happened 23,000 years ago.\n\nA \"Central Siberian\" origin has been postulated for the paternal lineage of the source populations of the original migration into the Americas.\n\nMembership in haplogroups Q and C3b implies indigenous American patrilineal descent.\n\nQ-M242 (mutational name) is the defining (SNP) of Haplogroup Q (Y-DNA) (phylogenetic name). Within the Q clade, there are 14 haplogroups marked by 17 SNPs. In Eurasia, haplogroup Q is found among indigenous Siberian populations, such as the modern Chukchi and Koryak peoples. In particular, two groups exhibit large concentrations of the Q-M242 mutation, the Ket (93.8%) and the Selkup (66.4%) peoples. The Ket are thought to be the only survivors of ancient wanderers living in Siberia. Their population size is very small; there are fewer than 1,500 Ket in Russia. The Selkup have a slightly larger population size than the Ket, with approximately 4,250 individuals.\n\nStarting the Paleo-Indians period, a migration to the Americas across the Bering Strait (Beringia) by a small population carrying the Q-M242 mutation took place. A member of this initial population underwent a mutation, which defines its descendant population, known by the Q-M3 (SNP) mutation. These descendants migrated all over the Americas.\n\nHaplogroup Q-M3 is defined by the presence of the rs3894 (M3) (SNP). The Q-M3 mutation is roughly 15,000 years old as that is when the initial migration of Paleo-Indians into the Americas occurred. Q-M3 is the predominant haplotype in the Americas, at a rate of 83% in South American populations, 50% in the Na-Dené populations, and in North American Eskimo-Aleut populations at about 46%. With minimal back-migration of Q-M3 in Eurasia, the mutation likely evolved in east-Beringia, or more specifically the Seward Peninsula or western Alaskan interior. The Beringia land mass began submerging, cutting off land routes.\n\nSince the discovery of Q-M3, several subclades of M3-bearing populations have been discovered. An example is in South America, where some populations have a high prevalence of (SNP) M19 which defines subclade Q-M19. M19 has been detected in (59%) of Amazonian Ticuna men and in (10%) of Wayuu men. Subclade M19 appears to be unique to South American Indigenous peoples, arising 5,000 to 10,000 years ago. This suggests that population isolation and perhaps even the establishment of tribal groups began soon after migration into the South American areas. Other American subclades include Q-L54, Q-Z780, Q-MEH2, Q-SA01, and Q-M346 lineages. In Canada, two other lineages have been found. These are Q-P89.1 and Q-NWT01.\n\nThe principal-component analysis suggests a close genetic relatedness between some North American Amerindians (the Chipewyan and the Cheyenne) and certain populations of central/southern Siberia (particularly the Kets, Yakuts, Selkups and Altays), at the resolution of major Y-chromosome haplogroups. This pattern agrees with the distribution of mtDNA haplogroup X, which is found in North America, is absent from eastern Siberia, but is present in the Altais of southern central Siberia. Similarly, the Asian populations closest to Native Americans are characterized by a predominance of lineage P-M45* and low frequencies of C-RPS4Y.\n\nHaplogroup R1 (Y-DNA) (specifically R1b) is the second most predominant Y haplotype found among indigenous Amerindians after Q (Y-DNA). The distribution of R1 is believed by some to be associated with the re-settlement of Eurasia following the last glacial maximum. One theory put forth is that R1 entered the Americas with the initial founding population, suggesting prehistoric Amerindian immigration from Asia through Beringia and correlating mostly with the frequency of haplogroups Q-M3 and P-M45*. A second theory is that it was introduced during European colonization. R1 is very common throughout all of Eurasia except East Asia and Southeast Asia. R1 (M173) is found predominantly in North American groups like the Ojibwe (50-79%), Seminole (50%), Sioux (50%), Cherokee (47%), Dogrib (40%) and Tohono O'odham (Papago) (38%).\n\nA study of Raghavan et al. 2013 found that autosomal evidence indicates that skeletal remain of a south-central Siberian child carrying R* y-dna (Mal'ta boy-1) \"is basal to modern-day western Eurasians and genetically closely related to modern-day Amerindians, with no close affinity to east Asians. This suggests that populations related to contemporary western Eurasians had a more north-easterly distribution 24,000 years ago than commonly thought.\" Sequencing of another south-central Siberian (Afontova Gora-2) revealed that \"western Eurasian genetic signatures in modern-day Amerindians derive not only from post-Columbian admixture, as commonly thought, but also from a mixed ancestry of the First Americans.\" It is further theorized if \"Mal'ta might be a missing link, a representative of the Asian population that admixed both into Europeans and Native Americans.\"\n\nHaplogroup C-M217 is mainly found in indigenous Siberians, Mongolians and Kazakhs. Haplogroup C-M217 is the most widespread and frequently occurring branch of the greater (Y-DNA) haplogroup C-M130. Haplogroup C-M217 descendant C-P39 is commonly found in today's Na-Dené speakers, with the highest frequency found among the Athabaskans at 42%. This distinct and isolated branch C-P39 includes almost all the Haplogroup C-M217 Y-chromosomes found among all indigenous peoples of the Americas. The Na-Dené groups are also unusual among indigenous peoples of the Americas in having a relatively high frequency of Q-M242 (25%).\n\nSome researchers feel that this may indicate that the Na-Dené migration occurred from the Russian Far East after the initial Paleo-Indian colonization, but prior to modern Inuit, Inupiat and Yupik expansions.\n\nThe common occurrence of the mtDNA Haplogroups A, B, C, and D among eastern Asian and Amerindian populations has long been recognized, along with the presence of Haplogroup X. As a whole, the greatest frequency of the four Amerindian associated haplogroups occurs in the Altai-Baikal region of southern Siberia. Some subclades of C and D closer to the Amerindian subclades occur among Mongolian, Amur, Japanese, Korean, and Ainu populations.\n\nWhen studying human mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) haplogroups, the results indicated until recently that Indigenous Amerindian haplogroups, including haplogroup X, are part of a single founding East Asian population. It also indicates that the distribution of mtDNA haplogroups and the levels of sequence divergence among linguistically similar groups were the result of multiple preceding migrations from Bering Straits populations. \nAll indigenous Amerindian mtDNA can be traced back to five haplogroups, A, B, C, D and X.\nMore specifically, indigenous Amerindian mtDNA belongs to sub-haplogroups A2, B2, C1b, C1c, C1d, D1, and X2a (with minor groups C4c, D2a, and D4h3a). \nThis suggests that 95% of Indigenous Amerindian mtDNA is descended from a minimal genetic founding female population, comprising sub-haplogroups A2, B2, C1b, C1c, C1d, and D1. The remaining 5% is composed of the X2a, D2a, C4c, and D4h3a sub-haplogroups.\n\nX is one of the five mtDNA haplogroups found in Indigenous Amerindian peoples. Unlike the four main American mtDNA haplogroups (A, B, C and D), X is not at all strongly associated with east Asia. Haplogroup X genetic sequences diverged about 20,000 to 30,000 years ago to give two sub-groups, X1 and X2. X2's subclade X2a occurs only at a frequency of about 3% for the total current indigenous population of the Americas. However, X2a is a major mtDNA subclade in North America; among the Algonquian peoples, it comprises up to 25% of mtDNA types. It is also present in lower percentages to the west and south of this area — among the Sioux (15%), the Nuu-chah-nulth (11%–13%), the Navajo (7%), and the Yakama (5%). Haplogroup X is more strongly present in the Near East, the Caucasus, and Mediterranean Europe. The predominant theory for sub-haplogroup X2a's appearance in North America is migration along with A, B, C, and D mtDNA groups, from a source in the Altai Mountains of central Asia.\n\nSequencing of the mitochondrial genome from Paleo-Eskimo remains (3,500 years old) are distinct from modern Amerindians, falling within sub-haplogroup D2a1, a group observed among today's Aleutian Islanders, the Aleut and Siberian Yupik populations. This suggests that the colonizers of the far north, and subsequently Greenland, originated from later coastal populations. Then a genetic exchange in the northern extremes introduced by the Thule people (proto-Inuit) approximately 800–1,000 years ago began. These final Pre-Columbian migrants introduced haplogroups A2a and A2b to the existing Paleo-Eskimo populations of Canada and Greenland, culminating in the modern Inuit.\n\nA 2013 study in \"Nature\" reported that DNA found in the 24,000-year-old remains of a young boy from the archaeological Mal'ta-Buret' culture suggest that up to one-third of indigenous Americans' ancestry can be traced back to western Eurasians, who may have \"had a more north-easterly distribution 24,000 years ago than commonly thought\" \"We estimate that 14 to 38 percent of Amerindian ancestry may originate through gene flow from this ancient population,\" the authors wrote. Professor Kelly Graf said,\n\n\"Our findings are significant at two levels. First, it shows that Upper Paleolithic Siberians came from a cosmopolitan population of early modern humans that spread out of Africa to Europe and Central and South Asia. Second, Paleoindian skeletons like Buhl Woman with phenotypic traits atypical of modern-day indigenous Americans can be explained as having a direct historical connection to Upper Paleolithic Siberia.\" \nA route through Beringia is seen as more likely than the Solutrean hypothesis. An abstract in a 2012 issue of the \"American Journal of Physical Anthropology\" states that \"The similarities in ages and geographical distributions for C4c and the previously analyzed X2a lineage provide support to the scenario of a dual origin for Paleo-Indians. Taking into account that C4c is deeply rooted in the Asian portion of the mtDNA phylogeny and is indubitably of Asian origin, the finding that C4c and X2a are characterized by parallel genetic histories definitively dismisses the controversial hypothesis of an Atlantic glacial entry route into North America.\"\nAnother study, also focused on the mtDNA (that which is inherited through only the maternal line), revealed that the indigenous people of the Americas have their maternal ancestry traced back to a few founding lineages from East Asia, which would have arrived via the Bering strait. According to this study, it is probable that the ancestors of the Native Americans would have remained for a time in the region of the Bering Strait, after which there would have been a rapid movement of settling of the Americas, taking the founding lineages to South America.\n\nAccording to a 2016 study, focused on mtDNA lineages, \"a small population entered the Americas via a coastal route around 16.0 ka, following previous isolation in eastern Beringia for ~2.4 to 9 thousand years after separation from eastern Siberian populations. Following a rapid movement throughout the Americas, limited gene flow in South America resulted in a marked phylogeographic structure of populations, which persisted through time. All of the ancient mitochondrial lineages detected in this study were absent from modern data sets, suggesting a high extinction rate. To investigate this further, we applied a novel principal components multiple logistic regression test to Bayesian serial coalescent simulations. The analysis supported a scenario in which European colonization caused a substantial loss of pre-Columbian lineages\".\n\nThere is genetic evidence for an early wave of migration to the Americas.\nIt is uncertain whether this \"Paleoamerican\" (also \"Paleoamerind\", not to confused with the term \nPaleo-Indian used of the early phase of Amerinds proper) migration took place in the early Holocene, thus only shortly predating the main Amerind peopling of the Americas, or whether it may have reached the Americas substantially earlier, before the Last Glacial Maximum.\nGenetic evidence for \"Paleoamerinds\" consists of the presence of apparent admixture of archaic Sundadont lineages to the remote populations in the South American rain forest, and in the genetics and cranial morphology of Patagonians-Fuegians. \nNomatto et al. (2009) proposed into Beringia occurred between 40k and 30k cal years BP, with a pre-LGM migration into the Americas followed by isolation of the northern population following closure of the ice-free corridor.\nEvidence of people from Australia and Melanesia admixture in Amazonian populations was found by Skoglund and Reich (2016).\n\nArchaeological evidence for pre-LGM human presence in the Americas was first presented in the 1970s. notably the \"Luzia Woman\" skull found in Brazil and the Monte Verde site in Chile, both discovered in 1975. Other notable sites of early human inhabitation found in North America include Paisley Caves, Oregon and Bluefish Caves, Canada.\n\nSubstantial racial admixture has taken place during and since the European colonization of the Americas.\n\nIn Latin America in particular, significant racial admixture took place between the indigenous Amerind population, the European-descended colonial population, and the Sub-Saharan African populations imported as slaves. From about 1700, a Latin American terminology developed to refer to the various combinations of mixed racial descent produced by this.\n\nMany individuals who self-identify as one race exhibit genetic evidence of a multiracial ancestry.\nThe European conquest of South and Central America, beginning in the late 15th century, was initially executed by male soldiers and sailors from the Iberian Peninsula (Spain and Portugal). The new soldier-settlers fathered children with Amerindian women and later with African slaves. These mixed-race children were generally identified by the Spanish colonist and Portuguese colonist as \"Castas\".\n\nThe North American fur trade during the 16th century brought many more European men, from France, Ireland, and Great Britain, who took North Amerindian women as wives. Their children became known as \"Métis\" or \"Bois-Brûlés\" by the French colonists and \"mixed-bloods\", \"half-breeds\" or \"country-born\" by the English colonists and Scottish colonists.\n\nNative Americans in the United States are more likely than any other racial group to practice racial exogamy, resulting in an ever-declining proportion of indigenous ancestry among those who claim a Native American identity. \nIn the United States 2010 census, nearly 3 million people indicated that their race was Native American (including Alaska Native). \nThis is based on self-identification, and there are no formal defining criteria for this designation.\nEspecially numerous was the self-identification of Cherokee ethnic origin, a phenomenon dubbed the \"Cherokee Syndrome\". \nThe context is the cultivation of an opportunistic ethnic identity related to the perceived prestige associated with Native American ancestry. Native American identity in the Eastern United States is mostly detached from genetic descent, and embraced by people of predominantly European ancestry.\nSome tribes have adopted criteria of racial purity, usually through a Certificate of Degree of Indian Blood, and practice disenrollment of tribal members unable to provide proof of Native American ancestry. This topic has become a contentious issue in Native American reservation politics,\n\nRecent archaeological findings in Alaska have shed light on the existence of a previously unknown Native American population that has been academically named \"Ancient Beringians.\" Although it is popularly agreed among archeologists that early settlers had crossed into Alaska from Russia through the Bering Strait land bridge, the issue of whether or not there was one founding group or several waves of migration is a controversial and prevalent debate among academics in the field today. In 2018, the sequenced DNA of a native girl, whose remains were found at the Sun River archaeological site in Alaska in 2013 (maybe add citation here), proved not to match the two recognized branches of Native Americans and instead belonged to the early population of Ancient Beringians. This breakthrough is said to be the first direct genomic evidence that there was potentially only one wave of migration in the Americas that occurred, with genetic branching and division transpiring after the fact. The migration wave is estimated to have emerged about 20,000 years ago. The Ancient Beringians are said to be a common ancestral group among contemporary Native American populations today, which differs in results collected from previous research that suggests that modern populations were ancestors of either Northern and Southern branches. Experts were also able to use wider genetic evidence to establish that the split between the Northern and Southern American branches of civilization from the Ancient Beringians in Alaska only occurred about 17,000 and 14,000 years, further challenging the concept of multiple migration waves occurring during the very first stages of settlement.  \n\nPrior to the 1952 confirmation of DNA as the hereditary material by Alfred Hershey and Martha Chase, scientists used blood proteins to study human genetic variation. The ABO blood group system is widely credited to have been discovered by the Austrian Karl Landsteiner, who found three different blood types in 1900. Blood groups are inherited from both parents. The ABO blood type is controlled by a single gene (the ABO gene) with three alleles: \"i\", \"I\", and \"I\".\n\nResearch by Ludwik and Hanka Herschfeld during World War I found that the frequencies of blood groups A, B and O differed greatly from region to region. The \"O\" blood type (usually resulting from the absence of both A and B alleles) is very common around the world, with a rate of 63% in all human populations. Type \"O\" is the primary blood type among the indigenous populations of the Americas, in-particular within Central and South America populations, with a frequency of nearly 100%. In indigenous North American populations the frequency of type \"A\" ranges from 16% to 82%. This suggests again that the initial Amerindians evolved from an isolated population with a minimal number of individuals.\n\nThe standard explanation for such a high population of Native Americans with blood type O comes from the idea of Genetic drift, in which the small nature of Native American populations meant the almost complete absence of any other blood gene being passed down through generations. Other related explanations include the Bottleneck explanation which states that there were high frequencies of blood type A and B among Native Americans but severe population decline during the 1500s and 1600s caused by the introduction of disease from Europe resulted in the massive death toll of those with blood types A and B. Coincidentally, a large amount of the survivors were type O. \nA team led by Ripan Malhi, an anthropologist at the University of Illinois in Urbana, conducted a study where they used a scientific technique known as whole exam sequencing to test immune-related gene variants within native americans. Through analyzing ancient and modern native DNA, it was found that HLA-DQA1, a variant gene that codes for protein in charge of differentiating between healthy cells from invading viruses and bacteria were present in nearly 100% of ancient remains but only 36% in modern Native Americans. These finding suggest that European-borne epidemics such as smallpox altered the disease landscape of the americas, leaving survivors of these outbreaks less likely to carry variants like HLA-DQA1. This made them less able to cope with new diseases. The change in genetic makeup is measured by scientists to have occurred around 175 years ago, during a time when the smallpox epidemic was ranging through the americas.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2991344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2991344", "title": "Gnaeus Lucretius", "text": "Gnaeus Lucretius\n\nGnaeus Lucretius Trio was a Roman moneyer, who minted denarii in Rome c. 136 BCE. He may be an ancestor of Lucius Lucretius Trio.\n\nOne of his denarii shows a head of Roma facing right with \"TRIO\" behind and an \"X\" below the chin. The reverse shows the Dioscuri galloping right with \"CN. LVCR\" below the horses and \"ROMA\" in the exergue. It is cataloged in \n\"Roman Silver Coins\" as \"Lucretia 1\" and in \"Roman Republican Coinage\" as \"237/1\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "998902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=998902", "title": "Haguenau", "text": "Haguenau\n\nHaguenau (, ; Alsatian: \"Hàwenau\" or \"Hàjenöi\"; and historically in English: \"Hagenaw\") is a commune in the Bas-Rhin department of France, of which it is a sub-prefecture.\n\nIt is second in size in the Bas-Rhin only to Strasbourg, some to the south. To the north of the town, the Forest of Haguenau () is the largest undivided forest in France.\n\nHaguenau was founded by German dukes and has swapped back and forth several times between Germany and France over the centuries, with its spelling altering between \"Hagenau\" and \"Haguenau\" by the turn. After the French defeat in the Franco-Prussian War, Haguenau was ceded to the new German Empire. It was part of the German Empire for 48 years from 1871 to 1918, when at the end of World War I it was returned to France. This transfer was officially ratified in 1919 with the Treaty of Versailles.\n\nHaguenau is a rapidly growing town, its population having increased from 22,644 inhabitants in 1968 to 34,891 inhabitants in 2006. Haguenau's metropolitan area has grown from 43,904 inhabitants in 1968 to 64,562 inhabitants in 2006.\n\nHaguenau dates from the beginning of the 12th century, when Frederick II (1090 – 6 April 1147), called the One-Eyed, Duke of Swabia erected a hunting lodge on an island in the Moder River. The medieval King and Holy Roman Emperor Frederick I Barbarossa fortified the settlement and gave it town rights, important for further development, in 1154. On the site of the hunting lodge he founded an imperial palace he regarded as his favourite residence. In this palace were preserved the \"Crown Jewels of the Holy Roman Empire\", i.e. the jewelled imperial crown, sceptre, imperial orb, and sword of Charlemagne.\n\nRichard of Cornwall, King of the Romans, made it an imperial city in 1257. Subsequently, through Rudolph I of Germany (House of Habsburg) Haguenau became the seat of the \"Landvogt\" of Hagenau, the German imperial advocatus in Lower Alsace. In the 14th century, it housed the executive council of the Decapole, a defensive and offensive association of ten Alsatians towns against exterior aggression, economical expension and related political instability. In the Peace of Westphalia in 1648, the Alsace was ceded to France, which had, in the past, repeatedly invaded and looted the region. In 1673 King Louis XIV had the fortifications as well as the remains of the king's palace razed in order to extinguish German traditions. Haguenau was recaptured by German troops in 1675, but was taken again by the French two years later, when it was nearly destroyed by fire set by looting French troops.\n\nIn 1793 Prussians and Austrians had occupied Lower Alsace from the Lauter to Moder to support the Royalists and before the year's end were driven back over the border by the French Revolutionary Army, causing the “great flight”.\n\nIn 1871, Haguenau was ceded to the German Empire upon its victory in the Franco-Prussian War; the community was made part of Alsace-Lorraine, with its Germanic spelling–\"Hagenau\"–restored.\n\nThe Haguenau Airport was built in 1916 by the German military to train fighter and bomber pilots to fight in the First World War.\n\nHagenau was part of the briefly independent Republic of Alsace-Lorraine after World War I, before being returned to France in 1919.\n\nIn the Second World War, Germany retook the town in 1940. In November 1944 the area surrounding Haguenau was under the control of the 256th Volksgrenadier Division under the command of General Gerhard Franz.\n\nOn 1 December 1944, the 314th Infantry Regiment of the 79th Division, XV Corps, 7th U.S. Army, moved into the area near Haguenau, and on 7 December the regiment was given the assignment to take it and the town forest just north that included German ammunition dumps. The attack began at 0645, 9 December, and sometime during the night of 10 December and the early morning of 11 December the Germans withdrew under the cover of darkness leaving the town proper largely under American control.\n\nBefore they withdrew, the Germans demolished bridges, useful buildings, and even the town park. However, as experienced by Haguenau throughout its history, the Germans came back and retook the town in late January. Most of the inhabitants fled with the assistance of the U.S. Army. The Americans launched an immediate counterattack to retake the town. The 313th Infantry Regiment of the 79th Division was relieved by the 101st Airborne Division on 5 February 1945. The 36th Infantry Division would relieve the 101st on 23 February 1945. On March 15 the Allied Operation Undertone, a combined effort of the U.S. Seventh and French 1st Armies of the U.S. Sixth Army Group was launched to drive the Germans back along a 75 km line from Saarbrücken to Haguenau. The last German soldier was not cleared out of the town until March 19, 1945, after house-to-house fighting.\n\nMuch of the town had been destroyed despite the Allied reluctance to use artillery to clear out the Germans. Technical Sergeant Morris E. Crain, Company E, 141st Infantry Regiment, 36th Infantry Division was posthumously awarded the Medal of Honor for providing covering fire for his men on 13 March 1945.\n\nThe town has a well balanced economy. Centuries of troubled history in the buffer lands between France and Germany have given Haguenau a rich historical and cultural heritage which supports a lively tourist trade. There is also a thriving light manufacturing sector centred on the industrial zone to the west of the town. Here the presence nearby of significant retail developments testifies to Haguenau's importance as a regional commercial centre. The recent extension of the ring road has improved access to the commercial and industrial zones and reduced the traffic congestion which used to be a frequent challenge for vehicle drivers using the road which follows the line of the old town walls on the western side of town.\n\nIn spite of the extensive destruction Haguenau suffered during the many wars experienced by Alsace, especially the Thirty Years War, the French conquest in 1677 and the Second World War, it still possesses monuments from nine centuries, even if nothing is left of arguably the most prestigious of them, Frederick I Barbarossa's imperial palace (\"Kaiserpfalz\").\n\nMedieval Haguenau retains three gates from its former fortification, the \"Tour des Chevaliers\" (Tower of the knights), the \"Tour des Pêcheurs\" (Tower of the fishermen) and the \"Porte de Wissembourg\" (Wissembourg gate), two fairly large Gothic churches, Saint-Georges and Saint-Nicolas, an ancient water-mill and the old custom-house (\"Ancienne Douane\"). Both Saint-Georges and Saint-Nicolas Church have lost many of their artistic treasures over the centuries, especially their medieval stained glass windows and outside sculptures. Still, both display to this day some fine liturgical furniture (altars, choir stalls, organ cases, church tabernacles, calvaries...). Saint-Nicolas has become the receptacle for the baroque wooden decoration of the church of the destroyed Neubourg Abbey nearby.\n\nFrench Baroque and classicism has bequeathed the town several buildings, among which the former hospital and the current town hall. The Synagogue (1820) is a fine example of French Neo-classicism, as is the theatre (\"Théâtre municipal\") (1846). The large Hop hall (\"Halle au houblon\") is a good example of historicism in architecture. It was built by the French in 1867 and extended twice by the Germans, in 1881 and 1908.\n\nHaguenau's streets are adorned by attractive fountains, the medieval Saint-Georges fountain, the 18th-century Bee fountain (\"Fontaine aux abeilles\") and the 1825 Dolphin fountain (\"Fontaine aux dauphins\").\n\n\nThe \"Institut universitaire de technologie de Haguenau\" (IUT) was founded in 2006. It is a branch of the University of Strasbourg.\n\n\nHaguenau is twinned with Landau (Germany).\n\nEpisode eight of the TV Second World War miniseries \"Band of Brothers\" is set in Haguenau.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34568148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34568148", "title": "Henk J. M. Bos", "text": "Henk J. M. Bos\n\nHendrik Jan Maarten \"Henk\" Bos (born 17 July 1940, Enschede) is a Dutch historian of mathematics.\n\nHendrik was a student of Hans Freudenthal and Jerome Ravetz at Utrecht University and in 1973 wrote a thesis \"Differentials, higher order differentials, and the derivative in Liebnitzian calculus\" for his doctorate. \n\nBos worked at Utrecht University for most of his career. In 1985 he became professor of history of mathematics.\n\nHe took an interest in the tractrix as a mathematical stimulus.\n\nBos retired in 2005. Since his retirement he has been honorary professor of the history of mathematics at the Faculty of Science at the University of Aarhus. He is married to Kirsti Andersen.\n\nAt his Valedictory Symposium when he retired, Henk spoke on fluid concepts in mathematics in a talk titled \"Loose Ends\". He was awarded the Kenneth O. May Medal for 2005.\n\nBos has contributed to the study of the mathematical works of the seventeenth-century philosopher René Descartes, including Descartes’ contribution to the development of algebra and geometry.\n\n"}
{"id": "272095", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=272095", "title": "Jean Bodin", "text": "Jean Bodin\n\nJean Bodin (1530–1596) was a French jurist and political philosopher, member of the Parlement of Paris and professor of law in Toulouse. He is best known for his theory of sovereignty; he was also an influential writer on demonology.\n\nBodin lived during the aftermath of the Protestant Reformation and wrote against the background of religious conflict in France. He remained a nominal Catholic throughout his life but was critical of papal authority over governments, favouring the strong central control of a national monarchy as an antidote to factional strife. Toward the end of his life he wrote, but did not publish, a dialogue among different religions, including representatives of Judaism, Islam and natural theology, in which all agreed to coexist in concord.\n\nBodin was successively a friar, academic, professional lawyer, and political adviser. An excursion as a politician having proved a failure, he lived out his life as a provincial magistrate.\n\nBodin was born near Angers, possibly the son of a master tailor, into a modestly prosperous middle-class background. He received a decent education, apparently in the Carmelite monastery of Angers, where he became a novice friar. Some claims made about his early life remain obscure. There is some evidence of a visit to Geneva in 1547/48 in which he became involved in a heresy trial. The records of this episode, however, are murky and may refer to another person.\n\nHe obtained release from his vows in 1549 and went to Paris. He studied at the university, but also at the humanist-oriented \"Collège des Quatre Langues\" (now the Collège de France); he was for two years a student under Guillaume Prévost, a little-known \"magister\" in philosophy. His education was not only influenced by an orthodox Scholastic approach but was also apparently in contact with Ramist philosophy.\n\nLater in the 1550s he studied Roman law at the University of Toulouse, under Arnaud du Ferrier, and taught there. His special subject at that time seems to have been comparative jurisprudence. Subsequently he worked on a Latin translation of Oppian of Apamea, under the continuing patronage of Gabriel Bouvery, Bishop of Angers. Bodin had a plan for a school on humanist principles in Toulouse, but failed to raise local support. He left in 1560.\n\nFrom 1561 he was licensed as an attorney of the \"Parlement\" of Paris. His religious convictions on the outbreak of the Wars of Religion in 1562 cannot be determined, but he affirmed formally his Catholic faith, taking an oath that year along with other members of the Parlement. He continued to pursue his interests in legal and political theory in Paris, publishing significant works on historiography and economics.\n\nBodin became a member of the discussion circles around the Prince François d'Alençon (or d'Anjou from 1576). He was the intelligent and ambitious youngest son of Henry II, and was in line for the throne in 1574, with the death of his brother Charles IX. He withdrew his claim, however, in favor of his older brother Henry III who had recently returned from his abortive effort to reign as the King of Poland. Alençon was a leader of the \"politiques\" faction of political pragmatists.\n\nAfter the failure of Prince François' hopes to ascend the throne, Bodin transferred his allegiance to the new king Henry III. In practical politics, however, he lost the king's favor in 1576–7, as delegate of the Third Estate at the Estates-General at Blois, and leader in his Estate of the February 1577 moves to prevent a new war against the Huguenots. He attempted to exert a moderating influence on the Catholic party, and also tried restrict the passage of supplemental taxation for the king. Bodin then retired from political life; he had married in February 1576. His wife, Françoise Trouillart, was the widow of Claude Bayard, and sister of Nicolas Trouillart who died in 1587; both were royal attorneys in the Provost of Laon and attorneys in the Bailiwick of Vermandois, and Bodin took over the charges.\n\nBodin was in touch with William Wade in Paris, Lord Burghley's contact, at the time (1576) of publication of the \"Six livres\". He later accompanied Prince François, by then Duke of Anjou, to England in 1581, in his second attempt to woo Elizabeth I of England. On this visit Bodin saw the English Parliament. He brushed off a request to secure better treatment for English Catholics, to the dismay of Robert Persons, given that Edmund Campion was in prison at the time. Bodin saw some of Campion's trial, he is said also to have witnessed Campion's execution in December 1581, making the hanging the occasion for a public letter against the use of force in matters of religion. Bodin became a correspondent of Francis Walsingham; and Michel de Castelnau passed on to Mary, Queen of Scots a prophecy supposed to be Bodin's, on the death of Elizabeth, at the time of the Babington Plot.\n\nPrince François became Duke of Brabant in 1582, however, and embarked on an adventurer's campaign to expand his territory. The disapproving Bodin accompanied him, and was trapped in the Prince's disastrous raid on Antwerp that ended the attempt, followed shortly by the Prince's death in 1584.\n\nIn the wars that followed the death of Henry III (1589), the Catholic League attempted to prevent the succession of the Protestant Henry of Navarre by placing another king on the throne. Bodin initially gave support to the powerful League; he felt it inevitable that they would score a quick victory.\n\nHe died, in Laon, during one of the many plague epidemics of the time.\n\nBodin generally wrote in French, with later Latin translations. Several of the works have been seen as influenced by Ramism, at least in terms of structure.\n\nBodin wrote in turn books on history, economics, politics, demonology, and natural philosophy; and also left a (later notorious) work in manuscript on religion (see under \"Religious tolerance\"). A modern edition of Bodin's works was begun in 1951 as \"Oeuvres philosophiques de Jean Bodin\" by , but only one volume appeared.\n\nIn France, Bodin was noted as a historian for his \"Methodus ad facilem historiarum cognitionem\" (1566) (\"Method for the easy knowledge of history\"). He wrote, \"Of history, that is, the true narration of things, there are three kinds: human, natural and divine\". This book was one of the most significant contributions to the \"ars historica\" of the period, and distinctively put an emphasis on the role of political knowledge in interpreting historical writings. He pointed out that the knowledge of historical legal systems could be useful for contemporary legislation.\n\nThe \"Methodus\" was a successful and influential manual on the writing of technical history. It answered by means of detailed historiographical advice the skeptical line on the possibility of historical knowledge advanced by Francesco Patrizzi. It also expanded the view of historical \"data\" found in earlier humanists, with the immediacy of its concerns for the social side of human life.\n\nBodin rejected the biblical Four Monarchies model, taking an unpopular position at the time, as well as the classical theory of a Golden Age for its naiveté. He also dropped much of the rhetorical apparatus of the humanists.\n\nThe \"Réponse de J. Bodin aux paradoxes de M. de Malestroit\" (1568) was a tract, provoked by theories of Jean de Malestroit, in which Bodin offered one of the earliest scholarly analyses of the phenomenon of inflation, unknown prior to the 16th century. The background to discussion in the 1560s was that by 1550 an increase in the money supply in Western Europe had brought general benefits. But there had also been appreciable inflation. Silver arriving via Spain from the South American mine of Potosí, together with other sources of silver and gold, from other new sources, was causing monetary change.\n\nBodin was after Martín de Azpilicueta, who had alluded to the issue in 1556 (something noticed also by Gomara in his unpublished \"Annals\"), an early observer that the rise in prices was due in large part to the influx of precious metals. Analysing the phenomenon, amongst other factors he pointed to the relationship between the amount of goods and the amount of money in circulation. The debates of the time laid the foundation for the \"quantity theory of money\". Bodin mentioned other factors: population increase, trade, the possibility of economic migration, and consumption that he saw as profligate.\n\nThe \"Theatrum Universae Naturae\" is Bodin's statement of natural philosophy. It contains many particular and even idiosyncratic personal views, for instance that eclipses are related to political events. It argued against the certainty of the astronomical theory of stellar parallax, and the terrestrial origin of the \"comet of 1573\" (i.e. the supernova SN 1572). This work shows major Ramist influences. Consideration of the orderly majesty of God leads to encyclopedism about the universe and an analogue of a memory system.\n\nProblems of Bodin became attached to some Renaissance editions of Aristotelian \"problemata\" in natural philosophy. Further, Damian Siffert compiled a \"Problemata Bodini\", which was based on the \"Theatrum\".\n\nBodin's best-known work was written in 1576. The discussion regarding the best form of government which took place in those years around the St. Bartholomew's Day massacre (1572) gave the inspiration; Bodin attempted to embark on a middle path. Machiavelli would have granted the sovereign the right to act for the benefit of his state without moral consideration, and Protestant theorists advocated a popular government, or at least an elective monarchy. Bodin's classical definition of sovereignty is: \"\" (the absolute and perpetual power of a Republic). His main ideas about sovereignty are found in chapter VIII and X of Book I, including his statement \"The sovereign Prince is accountable only to God\".\n\nThe \"Six livres\" were an immediate success and were frequently reprinted. A revised and expanded Latin translation by the author appeared in 1586. With this work, Bodin became one of the founders of the pragmatic inter-confessional group known as the \"politiques\", who ultimately succeeded in ending the Wars of Religion under King Henry IV, with the Edict of Nantes (1598). Against the monarchomachs who were assailing kingship in his time, such as Theodore Beza and François Hotman Bodin succeeded in writing a fundamental and influential treatise of social and political theory. In its reasoning against all types of mixed constitution and resistance theory, it was an effective counter-attack against the monarchomach position invoking \"popular sovereignty\".\n\nThe structure of the earlier books has been described as Ramist in structure. Book VI contains astrological and numerological reasoning. Bodin invoked Pythagoras in discussing justice and in Book IV used ideas related to the Utopia of Thomas More The use of language derived from or replacing Niccolò Machiavelli's \"città\" (Latin \"civitas\") as political unit (French \"cité\" or \"ville\") is thoughtful; Bodin introduced republic (French \"république\", Latin \"respublica\") as a term for matters of public law (the contemporary English rendering was \"commonweal(th)\"). Bodin, although he referenced Tacitus, was not writing here in the tradition of classical republicanism. The Ottoman Empire is analysed as a \"seigneurial monarchy\". The Republic of Venice is not accepted in the terms of Gasparo Contarini: it is called an aristocratic constitution, not a mixed one, with a concentric structure, and its apparent stability was not attributable to the form of government.\n\nThe ideas in the \"Six livres\" on the importance of climate in the shaping of a people's character were also influential, finding a prominent place in the work of Giovanni Botero (1544–1617) and later in Baron de Montesquieu's (1689–1755) climatic determinism. Based on the assumption that a country's climate shapes the character of its population, and hence to a large extent the most suitable form of government, Bodin postulated that a hereditary monarchy would be the ideal regime for a temperate nation such as France. This power should be \"sovereign\", i.e., not be subject to any other branch, though to some extent limited by institutions like the high courts (\"Parlement\") and representative assemblies (\"États\"). Above all, the monarch is \"responsible only to God\", that is, must stand above confessional factions.\n\nThe work soon became widely known. Gaspar de Anastro made a Spanish translation in 1590. Richard Knolles put together an English translation (1606); this was based on the 1586 Latin version, but in places follows other versions. It appeared under the title \"The Six Bookes of a Common-weale\".\n\nBodin's major work on sorcery and the witchcraft persecutions was first issued in 1580, ten editions being published by 1604. In it he elaborates the influential concept of \"pact witchcraft\" based on a deal with the Devil and the belief that the evil spirit would utilize a strategy to impose doubt on judges to look upon magicians as madmen and hypochondriacs deserving of compassion rather than chastisement.\n\nThe book relates histories of sorcerers, but does not mention Faust and his pact. It gave a report of a 1552 public exorcism in Paris, and of the case of Magdalena de la Cruz of Cordova, an abbess who had confessed to sexual relations with the Devil over three decades. Bodin cited Pierre Marner on werewolf accounts from Savoie. He denounced the works of Cornelius Agrippa, and the perceived traffic in \"sorceries\" carried out along the Spanish Road, running along eastern France for much of its length.\n\nHe wrote in extreme terms about procedures in sorcery trials, opposing the normal safeguards of justice. This advocacy of relaxation was aimed directly at the existing standards laid down by the Parlement of Paris (physical or written evidence, confessions not obtained by torture, unimpeachable witnesses). He asserted that not even one witch could be erroneously condemned if the correct procedures were followed, because rumours concerning sorcerers were almost always true. Bodin's attitude has been called a populationist strategy typical of mercantilism.\n\nThe book was influential in the debate over witchcraft; it was translated into German by Johann Fischart (1581), and in the same year into Latin by François Du Jon as \"De magorum dæmonomania libri IV\". It was quoted by Jean de Léry, writing about the Tupinamba people of what is now Brazil.\n\nOne surviving copy of the text, located in the University of Southern California's Special Collections Library, is a rare presentation copy signed by Bodin himself, and is one of only two known surviving texts that feature such an inscription by the author. The USC \"Démonomanie\" dedication is to a C.L. Varroni, thought to be a legal colleague of Bodin's.\n\nBodin became well known for his analysis of sovereignty, which he took to be indivisible, and to involve full legislative powers (though with qualifications and caveats). With François Hotman (1524-1590) and François Baudouin (1520-1573), on the other hand, Bodin also supported the force of customary law, seeing Roman law alone as inadequate.\n\nHe hedged the absolutist nature of his theory of sovereignty, which was an analytical concept; if later his ideas were used in a different, normative fashion, that was not overtly the reason in Bodin. Sovereignty could be looked at as a \"bundle of attributes\"; in that light the legislative role took centre stage, and other \"marks of sovereignty\" could be discussed further, as separate issues. He was a \"politique\" in theory, which was the moderate position of the period in French politics; but drew the conclusion that only passive resistance to authority was justified.\n\nBodin's work on political theory saw the introduction of the modern concept of \"state\" but was in the fact on the cusp of usage (with that of Corasius), with the older meaning of a monarch \"maintaining his state\" not having dropped away. Public office belonged to the commonwealth, and its holders had a personal responsibility for their actions. Politics is autonomous, and the sovereign is subject to divine and natural law, but not to any church; the obligation is to secure justice and religious worship in the state.\n\nBodin studied the balance of liberty and authority. He had no doctrine of separation of powers and argued in a traditional way about royal prerogative and its proper, limited sphere. His doctrine was one of balance as harmony, with numerous qualifications; as such it could be used in different manners, and was. The key was that the central point of power should be above faction. Rose sees Bodin's politics as ultimately theocratic, and misunderstood by the absolutists who followed him.\n\nWhere Aristotle argued for six types of state, Bodin allowed only monarchy, aristocracy and democracy. He advocated, however, distinguishing the form of state (constitution) from the form of government (administration). Bodin had a low opinion of democracy.\n\nFamilies were the basic unit and model for the state; on the other hand John Milton found in Bodin an ally on the topic of divorce. Respect for individual liberty and possessions were the hallmark of the orderly state, a view Bodin shared with Hotman and George Buchanan. He argued against slavery.\n\nIn matters of law and politics, Bodin saw religion as a social prop, encouraging respect for law and governance.\n\nHe praised printing as outshining any achievement of the ancients. The idea that the Protestant Reformation was driven by economic and political forces is attributed to him. He is identified as the first person to realize the rapid rate of change of early modern Europe.\n\nIn physics, he is credited as the first modern writer to use the concept of physical laws to define change, but his idea of nature included the action of spirits. In politics, he adhered to the ideas of his time in considering a political revolution in the nature of an astronomical cycle: a \"changement\" (French) or simply a change (as translated 1606) in English; from Polybius Bodin took the idea of \"anacyclosis\", or cyclic change of constitution. Bodin's theory was that governments had begun as monarchical, had then been democratic, before becoming aristocratic.\n\nIn 1576 Bodin was engaged in French politics, and then argued against the use of compulsion in matters of religion, if unsuccessfully. Wars, he considered, should be subject to statecraft, and matters of religion did not touch the state.\n\nBodin argued that a state might contain several religions; this was a very unusual position for his time, if shared by Michel de l'Hôpital and William the Silent. It was attacked by Pedro de Rivadeneira and Juan de Mariana, from the conventional opposing position of a state obligation to root out religious dissent. He argued in the \"Six livres\" that the Trial of the Knights Templar was an example of unjustified persecution, similar to that of the Jews and medieval fraternities.\n\nIn 1588 Bodin completed in manuscript a Latin work \"Colloquium heptaplomeres de rerum sublimium arcanis abditis\" (Colloquium of the Seven). It is a conversation about the nature of truth between seven educated men, each with a distinct religious or philosophical orientation - a natural philosopher, a Calvinist, a Muslim, a Roman Catholic, a Lutheran, a Jew, and a skeptic. Because of this work, Bodin is often identified as one of the first proponents of religious tolerance in the western world. Truth, in Bodin's view, commanded universal agreement; and the Abrahamic religions agreed on the Old Testament (Tanakh). \"Vera religio\" (true religion) would command loyalty to the point of death; his conception of it was influenced by Philo and Maimonides. His views on free will are also bound up with his studies in Jewish philosophy. Some modern scholars have contested his authorship of the text. The \"Colloquium of the Seven regarding the hidden secrets of the sublime things\" offers a peaceful discussion with seven representatives of various religions and worldviews, who in the end agree on the fundamental underlying similarity of their beliefs.\n\nBodin's theory, as based in considerations of harmony, resembles that of Sebastian Castellio. He has been seen as a scriptural relativist, and deist, with Montaigne and Pierre Charron; also in the group of learned Christian Hebraists with John Selden, Carlo Giuseppe Imbonati, and Gerhard Vossius. By reputation, at least, Bodin was cited as an unbeliever, deist or atheist by Christian writers who associated him with perceived free-thinking and sceptical tradition of Machiavelli and Pietro Pomponazzi, Lucilio Vanini, Thomas Hobbes and Baruch Spinoza: Pierre-Daniel Huet, Nathaniel Falck, Claude-François Houtteville. Pierre Bayle attributed to Bodin a maxim about the intellectual consequences of the non-existence of God (a precursor of Voltaire's, but based on a traditional commonplace of French thinkers). Wilhelm Dilthey later wrote that the protagonists in the Colloquium anticipate those of Gotthold Ephraim Lessing's \"Nathan der Weise\".\n\nThe Colloquium was one of the major and most popular manuscripts in clandestine circulation in the early modern period, with more than 100 copies catalogued. it had an extensive covert circulation, after coming into intellectual fashion. The 1911 Encyclopædia Britannica states \"It is curious that Leibniz, who originally regarded the \"Colloquium\" as the work of a professed enemy of Christianity, subsequently described it as a most valuable production\". Its dissemination increased after 1700, even if its content was by then dated. It was interpreted in the 18th century as containing arguments for natural religion, as if the views expressed by Toralba (the proponent of natural religion) were Bodin's; wrongly, according to Rose, whose reconstruction of Bodin's religious views is a long way from belief in a detached deity. Grotius had a manuscript. Gottfried Leibniz, who criticized the Colloquium to Jacob Thomasius and Hermann Conring, some years later did editorial work on the manuscript. Henry Oldenburg wanted to copy it, for transmission to John Milton and possibly John Dury, or for some other connection in 1659. In 1662 Conring was seeking a copy for a princely library. It was not to be published in full until 1857, by Ludwig Noack, from manuscripts collected by Heinrich Christian von Seckenberg.\n\nBodin was influenced by philosophic Judaism to believe in the annihilation of the wicked 'post exacta supplicia'.\n\nBodin was a polymath, concerned with universal history which he approached as a jurist. He belonged to an identifiable French school of antiquarian and cultural history, with Lancelot Voisin de La Popelinière, Louis Le Caron, Louis Le Roy, Étienne Pasquier and Nicolas Vignier.\n\nHistorical disciples included Jacques Auguste de Thou and William Camden. The genre thus founded, drawing social conclusions, identified itself as \"civil history\", and was influenced particularly by Polybius. The \"Methodus\" has been called the first book to advance \"a theory of universal history based on a purely secular study of the growth of civilisation\". Bodin's secular attitude to history therefore goes some way to explain his perceived relationship to Machiavelli. While Bodin's common ground with Machiavelli is not so large, and indeed Bodin opposed the Godless vision of the world in Machiavelli, they are often enough paired, for example by A. C. Crombie as philosophical historians with contemporary concerns; Crombie also links Bodin with Francis Bacon, as rational and critical historians. Both Bodin and Machiavelli treat religion as situated historically.\n\nBodin drew largely on Johann Boemus, and also classical authors, as well as accounts from Leo Africanus and Francisco Álvares. He showed little interest, however, in the New World. In terms of theories of cultural diffusion he influenced Nathanael Carpenter, and many subsequently, with his \"south-eastern origin\" theory of the transmission from peoples of the Middle East to Greece and Rome (and hence to Northern Europe). Another follower was Peter Heylyn in his \"Microcosmus\" (1621). In anthropology Bodin showed indications of polygenism as theory of human origins. In clearer terms, on the other hand, he believed that mankind was unifying, the drivers being trade, and the indications of the \"respublica mundana\" (world commonwealth) and international law as developing. This was within a scheme of \"Vaticinium Eliae\" or three periods of 2000 years for universal history, to which he had little commitment, though indicating its connection with the three climate regions and their predominance.\n\nThe \"south-eastern\" theory depended for its explanation on Bodin's climate theory and astrology: it was given in the \"Methodus\", and developed in Book VI of the \"Six Livres\". He made an identification of peoples and geographical sectors with planetary influences, in Book V of the \"Six Livres\". His astrological theory is combined with the Hippocratic tradition; but not in the conventional way of Ptolemy. It has been suggested that he took them from a follower of Cardano, Auger Ferrier.\n\nBodin's conception of sovereignty was widely adopted in Europe. In a form simplified and adapted by others, such as the French jurists Charles Loyseau (1564–1627) and Cardin Le Bret (1558–1655), it played an important role in the development of absolutism.\n\nInfluentially, Bodin defended an orderly Gallican monarchy against Huguenots, and any external interference. These general ideas became political orthodoxy, in the reign of Henry IV of France, tending to the beginnings of absolutism. Bodin had numerous followers as political theorist, including Pierre Grégoire, in whom with François Grimaudet legislative authority starts to become closer to the divine right of kings, and William Barclay. Pierre Charron in \"La Sagesse\" of 1601 uses the idea of state from Bodin but with fewer limitations on royal power; Charron in this work argued for a secular neo-stoicism, putting together ideas of Montaigne and Lipsius with those of Bodin. Charles Loyseau in the years 1608-10 published absolutist works with the emphasis on orderliness in society, going much beyond Bodin's writing of thirty years earlier, a trend that continued into the 17th century.\n\nAs a demonologist, his work was taken to be authoritative and based on experience as witch-hunting practitioner. As historian, he was prominently cited by Nicolas Lenglet Du Fresnoy in his 1713 \"Methode pour etudier l'Histoire\". Montesquieu read Bodin closely; the modern sociology hinted at in Bodin, arising from the relationship between the state apparatus on the one hand, and society on the other, is developed in Montesquieu.\n\nBodin's rejection of the Four Monarchies model was unpopular, given the German investment in the Holy Roman Emperor as fourth monarch, the attitude of Johannes Sleidanus. The need to accommodate the existing structure of the Empire with Bodin as theorist of sovereignty led to a controversy running over nearly half a century; starting with Henning Arnisaeus, it continued unresolved to 1626 and the time of Christopher Besoldus. He drew a line under it, by adopting the concept of composite polyarchy, which held sway subsequently. Leibniz rejected Bodin's view of sovereignty, stating that it might amount only to territorial control, and the consequence drawn by writers in Bodin's tradition that federalism was chimeric.\n\nGenerally the English took great interest in the French Wars of Religion; their literature came into commonplace use in English political debate, and Amyas Paulet made immediate efforts to find the \"Six livres\" for Edward Dyer. Shortly Bodin's works were known in England: to Philip Sidney, Walter Ralegh, and to Gabriel Harvey who reported they were fashionable in Oxford. His ideas on inflation were familiar by 1581. Somerville makes the point that not all those who discussed sovereignty in England at this period necessarily took their views from Bodin: the ideas were in the air at the time, and some such as Hadrian à Saravia and Christopher Lever had their own reasoning to similar conclusions. Richard Hooker had access to the works, but doesn't reference them. John Donne cited Bodin in his \"Biathanatos\".\n\nBodin's view of parallelism of French and English monarchies was accepted by Ralegh. Roger Twysden dissented: in his view, the English monarchy had never fitted Bodin's definition of sovereignty. Richard Beacon in \"Solon His Follie\" (1594), directed towards English colonisation in Ireland, used text derived from the \"Six livres\", as well as much theory from Machiavelli; he also argued, against Bodin, that France was a mixed monarchy. Bodin influenced the controversial definitions of John Cowell, in his 1607 book \"The Interpreter\", that caused a furore in Parliament during 1610. Edward Coke took from Bodin on sovereignty; and like him opposed the concept of mixed monarchy.\n\nWhile Bodin's ideas on authority fitted with the theory of divine right of kings, his main concern was not with the choice of the sovereign. But that meant they could cut both ways, being cited by parliamentarians as well as royalists. Henry Parker in 1642 asserted the sovereignty of Parliament by Bodinian reasoning. James Whitelocke used Bodin's thought in discussing the King-in-Parliament. The royalist Robert Filmer borrowed largely from Bodin for the argument of his \"Patriarcha\". John Locke in arguing decades later against Filmer in \"Two Treatises of Government\" didn't go behind his work to attack Bodin; but his ally James Tyrrell did, as did Algernon Sidney. Another royalist user of Bodin was Michael Hudson. John Milton used Bodin's theory in defending his anti-democratic plan for a Grand Council, after Oliver Cromwell's death.\n\nSir John Eliot summarized work of Arnisaeus as critic of Bodin, and wrote in the Tower of London following Bodin that a lawful king, as opposed to a tyrant, \"will not do what he may do\", in his \"De iure majestatis\". Robert Bruce Cotton quoted Bodin on the value of money; Robert Burton on politics in the \"Anatomy of Melancholy\".\n\nRichard Knolles in the introduction to his 1606 translation commended the book as written by a man experienced in public affairs. William Loe complained, in preaching to Parliament in 1621, that Bodin with Lipsius and Machiavelli was too much studied, to the neglect of Scripture. Richard Baxter on the other hand regarded the reading of Bodin, Hugo Grotius and Francisco Suárez as a suitable training in politics, for lawyers.\n\nBodin's views on witchcraft were taken up in England by the witch-hunter Brian Darcy in the early 1580s, who argued for burning rather than hanging as a method of execution, and followed some of Bodin's suggestions in interrogating Ursula Kemp. They were also radically opposed by Reginald Scott in his sceptical work \"Discoverie of Witchcraft\" (1584). Later Francis Hutchinson was his detractor, criticising his methodology.\n\nIn Italy Bodin was seen as a secular historian like Machiavelli. At the time of the Venetian Interdict, Venetians agreed with the legislative definition of sovereignty. In particular Paolo Sarpi argued that Venice's limited size in territorial terms was not the relevant point for the actions it could undertake on its own authority.\n\nLater Giambattista Vico was to take Bodin's cultural history approach noticeably further.\n\nWorks of Bodin were soon placed on the \"Index Librorum Prohibitorum\" for various reasons, including discussion of Fortune (against free will), and reason of state. The \"Methodus\" went on the Index in 1590; Robert Bellarmine as censor found it of some merit in its learning, but the author to be a heretic or atheist, critical of the papacy and much too sympathetic to Charles Du Moulin in particular. Other works followed in 1593. All his work was placed on the Index in 1628; the prohibition on the \"Theatrum\" continued into the 20th century. Venetian theologians were described as followers of Machiavelli and Bodin by Giovanni Amato.\n\nBellarmine's \"Tractatus de potestate summi pontificis in temporalibus\" reiterated, against Bodin's sovereignty theory, an indirect form of the traditional papal deposing power to release subjects from the duty of obedience to tyrants. Jakob Keller, in an apologetical work on behalf of limited justifications for tyrannicide, treated Bodin as a serious opponent on the argument that subjects can only resist a tyrant passively, with views on the Empire that were offensive.\n\nOn 1583 Bodin was placed on the Quiroga Index. Against tyrannicide, Bodin's thought was out of step of conventional thinking in Spain at the time. It was recognized, in an unpublished dialogue imagined between Bodin and a jurist of Castile, that the government of Spain was harder than that of France, the other major European power, because of the more complex structure of the kingdom.\n\nBodin's view of witchcraft was hardly known in Spain until the 18th century.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4656458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4656458", "title": "Journal of Indo-European Studies", "text": "Journal of Indo-European Studies\n\nThe Journal of Indo-European Studies is a peer-reviewed academic journal of Indo-European studies, founded in 1973. It publishes papers in the fields of anthropology, archaeology, mythology and linguistics relating to the cultural history of the Indo-European speaking peoples. The journal is published every three months. The current editor-in-chief is J. P. Mallory (Queen's University Belfast).\n\nIn 2006, an online full-text archive was made available to institutional subscribers.\n\n"}
{"id": "17951536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17951536", "title": "Kish tablet", "text": "Kish tablet\n\nThe Kish tablet is a limestone tablet found at Tell al-Uhaymir, Babil Governorate, Iraq – the site of the ancient Sumerian city of Kish. A plaster-cast of the artifact is today in the collection of the Ashmolean Museum.\n\nThe Kish tablet is inscribed with proto-cuneiform signs. It has been dated to ca. 3500 BC (middle Uruk period), although some scholars believe it may be from somewhat later – Uruk IV period (ca. 3350–3200 BC). Several thousands of proto-cuneiform documents dating to Uruk IV and III periods (ca. 3350–3000 BC) have been found in Uruk.\n\nThe writing is still purely pictographic, and represents a transitional stage between proto-writing and the emergence of the partly syllabic writing of the cuneiform script proper. The \"proto-literate period\" of Egypt and Mesopotamia is taken to span about 3500 to 2900 BC. The administrative texts of the Jemdet Nasr period (3100–2900 BC), found among other places at Jemdet Nasr and Tell Uqair represent a further stage in the development from proto-cuneiform to cuneiform, but can still not be identified with certainty as being written in Sumerian, although it is likely.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43508387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43508387", "title": "Lake Malawi Museum", "text": "Lake Malawi Museum\n\nLake Malawi Museum is a museum on Lake Malawi in Malawi. Situated in the Old Gymkhana Club and organized by the Society of Malawi since 1971 (and likely not updated since then), the museum is located near the Queen Victoria memorial near the Bakili Muluzi Bridge in Mangochi town, Mangochi District, within the Southern Region of Malawi.\n\n"}
{"id": "37942076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37942076", "title": "Llibre del Repartiment (Majorca)", "text": "Llibre del Repartiment (Majorca)\n\nThe Llibre del Repartiment is a record book in which the king's scribes recorded the pledges of properties at the completion of a conquest. The document includes only properties that were ceded to the monarch after the conquest of the island of Majorca in 1229. It meticulously recorded the houses or land donations made by James I to the Aragonese and Catalan nobles and ultimately to all who participated in the crusade for the conquest of Majorca. Of course, the properties had been expropriated from the Muslims who had previously inhabited the island of Majorca.\n\nThis book is kept in the \"l'Arxiu del Regne de Mallorca\" in the city of Palma, but actually consists of two volumes: one bilingual in Latin and Arabic, and another in Catalan.\n\nThe groups that had greater involvement in the company were Barcelona and Marseille, the first with a total of 877 horses and the second with 636, followed by the Knights Templar which had 525.\n\n"}
{"id": "44492974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44492974", "title": "Lucien Jerphagnon", "text": "Lucien Jerphagnon\n\nLucien Jerphagnon (7 September 1921 – 16 September 2011) was a French scholar, historian and philosopher specialized in Greek and Roman philosophy.\n\nLucien Jerphagnon is the son of Émile Jerphagnon, a regional engineer of French Ministry of National Education and Madame Jerphagnon, born Jeanne Lallemand.\n\nHe became doctor in philosophy under professor Vladimir Jankélévitch (1965) and became a lecturer at the University of Franche-Comté of Besancon (1966-1970) and professor at the Caen University (1970-1984).\n\n"}
{"id": "5809593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5809593", "title": "Macula (archaeology)", "text": "Macula (archaeology)\n\nMacula is a term used by archaeologists to describe small two-dimensional features of ancient human origin visible on an aerial photograph, such as points, spots or patches, which may represent features such as burial places, pits, Grubenhäuser (homesteads with sunken floors), constructions based on posthole or features above ground level. Maculae are differentiated from other features visible in aerial photographs such as enclosures, linear features and linear systems, which include path, roads, boundaries or limits. Identification and interpretation of maculae in air photographs is difficult and depends upon the experience of the observer, who has to take factors such as shape, size, relative position or proximity to other maculae, ground condition and knowledge of cultural practices of ancient humans in the region under observation, into account.\n\nThe term is used in a different context in art on objects where it refers to the mesh of a net (in singular), or its depiction, the plural being \"maculae\".\n"}
{"id": "54144140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54144140", "title": "Maurice Houtart", "text": "Maurice Houtart\n\nBaron Maurice Jules Marie Emmanuel Eleuthère Houtart (1866–1939) was a Belgian politician.\n\nMaurice was born the son of Baron Jules Houtart (1844-1928). He married Marcelle Jooris (1878-1924), daughter of Emile Jooris, the mayor of Vardenare, with whom he had one son. Descendants through his son are still living. He published a history of his family and lived inside the Château de Gesves since 1934.\n\nAfter his docoterate in justice, 1889 he became lawyer Later he became active in Politics. He was sent to the conference of the hague\nDuring his political career he was Minister of Finance and Minister of the Colonies, as well as director of the Bank of Brussels.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53060558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53060558", "title": "Michèle Kahn", "text": "Michèle Kahn\n\nMichèle Kahn (born 1 December 1940 in Nice) is a French writer who later lived in Strasbourg and currently in Paris. She first wrote books for the young (about a hundred), and mainly addressed the adult public from 1997. Her novels, strongly anchored in history and very documented, often inspired by the adventures of the Jewish people, draw readers around the world.\n\nA graduate from the École des hautes études en sciences sociales (EHESS), Kahn was vice-president of the Société des gens de lettres as well as of the (SCAM). Co-founder of the Rotary Prize for Literature, founding member of the SCAM Prix Joseph Kessel and the Prix François Billetdoux, of which she is currently the President, she is Vice-President of the and a member of various other literary juries.\n\nA member of the Chocolate Crunchers Club, she was appointed in 2003 as Ambassador of the Académie du Chocolat of Bayonne.\n\nAs a journalist, she collaborated with \"Le Magazine Littéraire\" from 1987 to 2006 and \"L'Arche\" from 1993 to 2010. She is a blogger for \"The Times of Israel\" in French.\n\nA Michèle Kahn library was established in 1997 for the youth by the Alliance israélite universelle in Paris, which also collects her archives.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51778028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51778028", "title": "Moshe Sharon", "text": "Moshe Sharon\n\nMoshe Sharon (; born December 18, 1937) is an Israeli historian of Islam who has been called \"Israel's greatest Middle East scholar.\"\n\nHe is currently Professor Emeritus of Islamic and Middle Eastern Studies at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem where he serves as Chair in Bahá'í Studies.\n\nSharon was born in Haifa in 1937. He joined the faculty of Hebrew University of Jerusalem in 1965 and would go on to earn a Ph.D. at the same institution in 1971. He served as an Arab Affairs adviser to Prime Minister Menachem Begin and served in the Ministry of Defense, during which took part in the negotiations for peace with Egypt. Sharon established the Centre of Jewish Studies at the University of the Witwatersrand, which he directed while serving as director of the World Zionist Organization branch in Johannesburg. In 1999 he was appointed to the chair of Bahá'í Studies at Hebrew University. Sharon serves as a policy expert for the Ariel Center for Policy Research. He and his wife, Judy, have six children.\n\nMoshe Sharon has written about early Islamic history and the development of Shia Islam. He is a specialist in Arabic epigraphy and papyrology, with his opus being \"Corpus Inscriptionum Arabicarum Palaestinae\". In 2005 he published the first translation into Hebrew of \"Kitáb-i-Aqdas\", the holy book of the Bahá'í faith, and included a study of the history and theology of the religion.\n\nMoshe Sharon has given many presentations at international conferences and been interviewed by numerous media outlets on a variety of contemporary and historical topics.\n\nMoshe Sharon is interviewed in the 2007 Israeli documentary film, \"Bahais in My Backyard.\" In the interview he states that the only Bahá'í academic chair in the world is in Israel due to his efforts in convincing Hebrew University to establish one and his efforts in finding a benefactor to fund the position. He also says that there are no descendants of Bahá'u'lláh in Israel. Despite Sharon's denial of the existence of such relatives, there are, in fact, dozens, and one of Bahá'u'lláh's great-granddaughters is featured in the film. Furthermore, even at the time of the interview, there were other Bahá'í academic chairs in existence, such as the ones established at Devi Ahilya Vishwavidyalaya, a state university in Madhya Pradesh in 1991 and at the University of Maryland in 1993.\n\nMoshe Sharon believes that Western leaders fail to understand Islam. He says that \"There is no fundamental Islam. There is only Islam full stop.\" Citing the conflict in Yugoslavia, Sharon continues that \"Wherever you have Islam, you will have war. It grows out of the attitude of Islamic civilization.\" He furthermore argues that not only is there \"open war, but there's also war by infiltration.\"\n\nRegarding the Israeli–Palestinian conflict, Moshe Sharon has said that there is \"no possibility of peace between Israel and the Palestinians whatsoever, for ever\" and that peace agreements with Arabs are \"pieces of paper, parts of tactics, strategies... with no meaning.\" He opposed the Oslo peace accords and believes the dismantling the Israeli settlements, which he terms \"expulsions,\" serve to \"increase the appetite of the other side and only achieve the killing of Jews.\"\n\nMoshe Sharon said in an interview that \"The only way to avoid military confrontation with Iran is to leave this military confrontation to powers bigger than Israel.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "8968712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8968712", "title": "Peter Calvocoressi", "text": "Peter Calvocoressi\n\nPeter John Ambrose Calvocoressi (17 November 1912 – 5 February 2010) was a British lawyer, Liberal politician, historian, and publisher. He served as an intelligence officer at Bletchley Park during World War II.\n\nCalvocoressi was born in Karachi, now in Pakistan, to a family of Greek origins from the island of Chios. His mother, Irene (née Ralli), was descended from one of the founders of Ralli Brothers, who were prominent Greek families of Chios who came to London at the time of the Greek Diaspora. When he was three months old, the family moved to Liverpool, England.\n\nCalvocoressi's father Pandia had spent the first seven years of his life in Manchester and the next ten at San Stefano (on the outskirts of Istanbul). He attended the Sorbonne from the age of 17 for three years and then joined the family firm in New York. Pandia Calvocoressi and Irene Ralli married in London in 1910. Shortly afterwards Pandia was posted to India where Calvocoressi was born. His mother and maternal grandmother were both born in India but spent most of their lives in England.\n\nIn 1926 he was elected a scholar of Eton in second place, a position which he retained for the greater part of the next five years. Switching from the standard Classical curriculum to History, he was taught by, among others, the young Robert Birley. At Balliol College, Oxford, in 1931–1934, he was tutored in Modern History mainly by B. H. Sumner and V. H. Galbraith, obtaining a First. \n\nHe was called to the Bar in 1935 and worked in Chancery Chambers until the outbreak of World War II. He spent most of the war as an RAF Intelligence officer at GC&CS Bletchley Park. He worked in 'Hut 3', where decrypted Enigma messages were translated and analysed, and Ultra intelligence was prepared for dispatch to commanders in the field. Calvocoressi rose to be head of the Air Section, which dealt with Luftwaffe intelligence. In summer 1945, he was accredited by British Intelligence to obtain evidence for all four Chief Prosecutors at the International Military Tribunal at Nuremberg. As a member of the British prosecution team, he cross-examined former German Field Marshal Gerd von Rundstedt during the trial. Calvocoressi later advised the US Chief Prosecutor (General Telford Taylor), who had been his Bletchley colleague, in some of the American follow-up trials (1946–1949).\n\nIn 1945, he contested the General Election, as the Liberal candidate for Nuneaton, finishing third.\nIn 1950–1955 he worked at the Royal Institute for Foreign Affairs (Chatham House), writing five volumes in the series of \"Annual Surveys of International Affairs\", which had previously been written by Arnold Toynbee. From 1955 to 1966, he was a partner in the publishing firms of Chatto and Windus and the Hogarth Press. From 1966 to 1973, he was Reader in International Relations at the University of Sussex, a post which was created for him.\n\nIn 1973 he was enticed back to publishing by the offer of the newly created post of Editor-in-Chief of Penguin Books. He was appointed Publisher and Chief Executive of Penguin in the following year. But he fell into disagreements with Penguin's parent company Pearson Longman, and was removed in 1976.\n\nDuring this period (1955-1976) he was for ten years a part-time member of the United Nations Sub-Commission on the Promotion and Protection of Human Rights, and was Chairman of the Africa Bureau, the London Library, Chios Charities, and Open University Enterprises Ltd. He also served on the governing bodies of Chatham House, the Institute of Strategic Studies, and Amnesty International.\n\nHe wrote twenty books, mostly on contemporary history; one of these – \"World Politics Since 1945\" – passed through nine editions. \"Threading My Way\", an autobiography, appeared in 1994. He set private life before and above his career and never had cause to question this priority.\n\nIn 1990, he was awarded an honorary doctorate by the Open University.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17370981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17370981", "title": "Premierships of Benjamin Disraeli", "text": "Premierships of Benjamin Disraeli\n\nBenjamin Disraeli was the Conservative Prime Minister of the United Kingdom on two separate occasions, first in 1868 and then between 1874 and 1880.\n\nIn February 1868 the Prime Minister, The Earl of Derby, received medical advice which told him that he could not fully recover from his illness whilst Premier. He therefore asked Benjamin Disraeli (who was Chancellor of the Exchequer at the time) if he was ready to be Premier. Disraeli said yes, telling his friends, \"I have climbed to the top of the greasy pole\". However his political position was weak—a caretaker in the minority.\n\nDisraeli inherited a minority Conservative administration but was able to pass some notable Acts of Parliament. The Public Schools Act 1868 established a board of governors for nine English public schools. The Telegraph Act 1868 gave the Post Office power to nationalise all telegraph companies. The Capital Punishment Amendment Act 1868 abolished public executions. Disraeli also appointed a Royal Commission on the Sanitary Laws chaired by Sir Charles Adderley.\nThe Parliamentary Elections Act 1868 transferred the power to try to punish electoral irregularities from the partisan Committee of the House of Commons to the impartial tribunal of judges. The judges objected to these new responsibilities imposed on them but their opposition was overcome and electoral irregularities were then tried in a legal tribunal rather than a committee of party politicians.\n\nThe main domestic issue was the status of the Anglican Church in Ireland, where it was officially established although enrolling a small minority. It became the main election issue as well.\n\nOn 26 April news came of the result of Sir Robert Napier's expedition to Abyssinia. Napier had defeated the forces of Theodore II of Abyssinia and released the British prisoners: the British envoy and the British consul. In moving a motion in Parliament thanking Napier and his forces, Disraeli paid to tribute to Napier, who led his army with \"the elephants of Asia, bearing the artillery of Europe, over African passes which might have startled the trapper and appalled the hunter of the Alps\". He went on to say that Napier's troops \"had to scale a mountain fortress, of which the intrinsic strength was such that it may be fairly said it would have been impregnable to the whole world had it been defended by the man by whom it was assailed\". Disraeli famously said that \"the standard of St. George was hoisted on the mountains of Rasselas\".\n\nThe cost of the expedition was originally estimated by Disraeli's Chancellor of the Exchequer, George Ward Hunt, to be £5m, raising the income tax from four pence to six pence to fund it. However, in 1869 the Liberal Chancellor had to meet a total of £9m. However Disraeli still defended the expedition, writing to a friend in 1875: \"I do not look back to the Abyssinian [war] with regret: quite the reverse. It was a noble feat of arms, and highly raised our prestige in the East...Money is not to be considered in such matters: success alone is to be thought of\".\n\nThe beginning of Disraeli's second premiership coincided with a growing demand for the Ritualistic controversy in the Church of England to be settled by legislation. The Public Worship Regulation Bill passed its first and second readings without a division in the House of Lords and, with amendment, passed its third reading without division. After Gladstone came out against the Bill, Disraeli came out for it, accusing Gladstone of challenging the whole Reformation settlement. Disraeli urged the Bill to be passed in order \"to put down Ritualism\" and that he was prepared to respect Roman Catholicism practised by Roman Catholics but that he objected to the \"Mass]in masquerade\". The second reading in the House of Commons was passed without division and most clauses of the Bill passed with massive majorities. However the Bill nearly failed to become law when there was a major dispute over the clause which the Archbishops in the Lords had given the Bill: that Bishops should have a veto to prevent \"frivolous and irresponsible prosecutions of devoted clergyman\". There was in the Commons inserted a clause which gave the right to appeal against this veto to the Archbishop of the Province, which passed with a majority of 23. The High Church party took up the right of a Bishop to uncontrolled rule in his diocese and the Lords dropped their insistence on the appeal to the Archbishop of the Province. Disraeli was worried that the Commons would not pass the Bill without the Archbishop's veto but he managed to persuade the Commons to pass it without the clause by appealing to the need to put down a \"small but pernicious sect\".\nDisraeli and the Queen were close, and she wanted an imperial title (her daughter had one in Germany). The Royal Titles Bill, added the title Empress of India to the British monarch's official title. Despite Liberal opposition it passed into law with the assurance that the monarch would only use the Indian title externally; within the United Kingdom the monarch would still be King or Queen rather than Emperor or Empress in ordinary and official usage except when using the \"I\" after \"R\" in signature, \"Emperor of India\" in public proclamations and \"Ind. Imp.\" on the coinage. Disraeli wanted the measure passed to let the world know that Britain would hold onto India: \"It is only by the amplification of titles that you can often touch and satisfy the imagination of nations; and that is an element which Governments must not despise\".\n\nThe Disraeli government's programme of social reform began in the second session of parliament, 1874–75. This government, chiefly under the influence of the Home Secretary Richard Cross and with the encouragement of Disraeli, addressed \"the condition of the people\" through major reforms in three areas: housing, savings and labour relations. Disraeli's watchword was \"Sanitas sanitatum, omnia sanitas\", which the Liberals decried as \"a policy of sewage\". Disraeli responded that sanitary reform included \"most of the civilising influences of humanity\".\n\nThe housing of the working classes was dealt with by the Artisan's and Labourers' Dwellings Improvement Act 1875 which for the first time gave local councils in large towns power to destroy slum buildings for sanitary reasons and replace them with new ones for artisans. Councils would compensate previous owners for this expropriation and when six years later it was seen that claims for compensation were impeding councils from embarking on housing reform an Amending Act was passed which provided that if overcrowding had created a nuisance, compensation should be given only at the value of the house after the nuisance had been remedied, so that \"grasping and callous owners should not profit by their misdeeds\". However the Act was criticised by the Radicals who believed in laissez-faire: Henry Fawcett MP scoffed at the Act and asked why Parliament should secure working-class housing and not that of dukes.\n\nThe savings of the working classes were secured with the passing of the Friendly Societies Act 1875. This Act allowed friendly societies considerable self-management \"but insured the adoption of sound rules, effective audit, and rates of payment sufficient to maintain solvency. It established the friendly societies, and with them the people's savings on a satisfactory basis\".\n\nDisraeli's government also passed two Acts which dealt with labour relations: the Employers and Workmen Act 1875 and the Conspiracy and Protection of Property Act 1875. Previously, a breach of contract by a worker was punished as a criminal act whilst an employer who breached a contract was only liable in a civil court. The Employers and Workmen Act made breaches of contract by a worker a civil offence and therefore made workers and employers equal before the law regarding labour contracts. The Conspiracy and Protection of Property Act amended the law of conspiracy in favour of trade unions and legalised peaceful picketing. Disraeli wrote to a friend that these Acts \"will gain and retain for the Conservatives the lasting affection of the working classes\". The Trade Union Manual of Labour Laws called these two Acts \"the charter of the social and industrial freedom of the working classes\" and in autumn 1875 the Labour Congress and one of the few labour members of Parliament, Alexander Macdonald, formally thanked the government for passing these measures. Macdonald told his constituents in 1879: \"The Conservative party have done more for the working classes in five years than the Liberals have in fifty\".\n\nThe Public Health Act 1875 consolidated previous measures of public health and the Factory Act 1878 consolidated all previous Factory Acts, of which the veteran campaigner for Factory Acts, Lord Shaftesbury, spoke strongly in favour of in the House of Lords. Disraeli's government had previously passed a Factory Act in 1874 which reduced the working day for women and children to ten hours on a weekday and six hours on a Saturday. This was opposed by those Radicals such as Fawcett and 79 Liberals voted against it. The Rivers Pollution Prevention Act 1876 outlawed the flow of solid matter into rivers and compelled manufacturers to make sure the liquid flowing from their factories into rivers was harmless. This was again opposed by the Radicals such as Sir Charles Dilke.\n\nDisraeli and his foreign minister Lord Derby scored a number of achievements. In 1875 came the purchase of the controlling shares in the Suez Canal company. By negotiations, Russia gave up substantial gains in the Balkans and a foothold in the Mediterranean. Britain gains control of Cyprus from the Ottomans as a naval base covering the Eastern Mediterranean. In exchange, Britain guaranteed the Asiatic territories of the Ottoman Empire. Britain did not do well in conflicts in Afghanistan and South Africa.\nIn 1875, the Khedive of Egypt had gone bankrupt and needed to sell shares in the Suez Canal (of whose traffic four-fifths was British) to gain money. Disraeli purchased 176,602 shares, or 44% of the Canal's total. This did not give Britain ownership, but it did give a strong voice and protection against adverse policies. The investment, financed by the Rothschilds, was financially profitable. The market value of the shares rose from £4m in 1875 to £24m in 1898; by 1914 they were worth over £40m. Disraeli acted alone in a matter of hours, without consulting Parliament. The Liberals were opposed but largely kept quiet because the purchase was immensely popular. European governments were highly impressed, and saw it as evidence that Britain had finally abandoned her passivity and was embarking upon a \"spirited foreign policy\". Some historians have argued that ownership of the canal marked a new policy, that of an extended British commitment in Egypt, together with ensuring the imperial lifeline to India and Australia would not be controlled by France. Geoffrey Hicks replies that the commitment to Egypt was the unintended consequence of a pragmatic policy. Instead, the government's goal for the purchase was quite the opposite: to control the French risk and to otherwise minimize British entanglements in the east.\n\nThe \"Eastern Question\" was how the major powers would deal with the military and economic decline of the Ottoman Empire, especially in the face of Russian efforts to break it up and seize the best parts, such as the Straits. Like British leaders before him, Disraeli believed that an integral Ottoman Empire would be barrier to Russian advance in the Mediterranean, a move that was feared as a threat to the British Empire in India. Disraeli wanted to halt possible Russian advance in the Balkans whilst avoiding war. Gladstone and the Liberals were rallying public support by denouncing Turkish atrocities against Christian communities in the Balkans, most notably in Bulgaria in 1876. Disraeli realized that his defense of the Ottomans was politically risky. Nevertheless, in public he robustly declared (in November 1875) that British interests in the East were as important as any other power's. He said in November 1876 that if war were forced on Britain by Russia, Britain \"would not terminate till right was done\".\n\nWhen the Russo-Turkish War broke out in 1877 Disraeli's government declared Britain neutral as long as Britain's national interests were respected. These were the security of free communication with the East through the Suez Canal; Egyptian neutrality; and for Russia not to invade Constantinople. The Russian foreign minister, Alexander Mikhailovich Gorchakov, agreed to these proposals. The Ottoman victories under Osman Pasha and Suleiman Pasha roused traditional anti-Russian feeling in Britain. However, when Russia recovered from these setbacks and advanced into Adrianople, Disraeli's government (on 23 January 1878) ordered the Mediterranean fleet of the Royal Navy into the Dardanelles to Constantinople and Parliament voted to raise £6m for military purposes. One week later Russia granted the Ottomans an armistice. However the Foreign Secretary, Lord Derby, and the Colonial Secretary, Lord Carnarvon, resigned in protest (Derby returned when the order to send the fleet was rescinded). When it was rumoured a week later that the Russians were in Constantinople the government sent part of the fleet to the city \"for the protection of life and property\" and Parliament assented to the £6m without debate. In response the Russians advanced their army and an outbreak of war fever occurred in Britain and a popular music hall song gave rise to the word \"jingoism\" to describe bellicose patriotism. On 19 February Russia agreed not to occupy Gallipoli and Britain agreed not to land any soldiers in Turkey.\n\nHowever, when the Russians and the Ottomans signed the Treaty of San Stefano on 3 March, Disraeli's government viewed it as unacceptable due to its Pan-Slavism. Disraeli insisted that any European conference between the great powers must include the possible revision of the treaty. On 27 March Disraeli got the Cabinet's assent to call up the reserves and send to the Mediterranean a large number of Indian soldiers. Lord Derby resigned in reaction to this and was replaced by Lord Salisbury. Salisbury's Circular Note convinced Bismarck to a conference which could discuss the treaty and the Congress of Berlin met from 13 June to 13 July 1878. It included the heads of government of the great powers of Europe to discuss the \"Eastern Question\". The British plenipotentiaries were Disraeli, Salisbury and Lord Odo Russell.\n\nFrom the start Disraeli was \"the lion of the Congress\" and the centre of attention. He made his opening address to the Congress in English rather than French, which caused a sensation and offended the Russians. Disraeli achieved his goals regarding Bulgaria by intimating that he would leave the Congress if his demands were not met, and Russia gave way. During the Congress the Cyprus Convention (which ceded Cyprus to Britain from the Ottoman Empire in return for a defensive alliance) was announced: \"a sensational stroke\" which brought the plenipotentiaries attention back to Disraeli. At the end the plenipotentiaries signed the Treaty of Berlin.\n\nWhen the British plenipotentiaries arrived back in England on 16 July they were met with popular acclaim. From Charing Cross to Downing Street there was an immense crowd singing patriotic songs. After arriving at Downing Street, Disraeli appeared at the window and declared that they had brought back from Berlin \"Peace with Honour\". In his speech to the House of Lords, Disraeli asserted that through the Congress and the Cyprus Convention the threat to the British Empire was averted and that the threat to European independence in the Treaty of San Stefano had been eliminated. The Cyprus Convention was necessary to protect Britain's route to India: \"In taking Cyprus the movement is not Mediterranean, it is Indian\". After Gladstone had denounced the Convention as adding to Britain's responsibilities and that it was an \"insane convent\" Disraeli, in a speech given on 27 July, defended it by claiming that a renewed Russia in \"ten, fifteen, it might be twenty years\" could invade the Ottoman Empire and march towards Constantinople. Disraeli claimed any party in power in Britain at that moment would wish to prevent Russian conquest of Asia Minor and that therefore the Convention was not adding to Britain's responsibilities but that the responsibility was already there. Disraeli then asked who would enter an insane convention: English gentlemen \"honoured by the favour of their Sovereign and the confidence of their fellow-subjects\" or \"a sophistical rhetorician, inebriated with the exuberance of his own verbosity, and gifted with an egotistical imagination that can at all times command an interminable and inconsistent series of arguments to malign an opponent and to glorify himself?\" The House of Commons endorsed the Treaty with a majority of 143; it passed without division in the House of Lords. Disraeli's biographer Robert Blake has consluded:\n\nJudged by the criteria of tactical skill and achievement of objectives, Disraeli's foreign policy was an undoubted success. As for the Berlin settlement, of course it was not perfect. No treaty ever is. But it was followed by almost as long a period of peace between the European great powers as the interval separating the Crimean War from the Congress of Vienna. As one of the two principal plenipotentiaries at Berlin Disraeli must share with Bismarck some part of the credit.\n\nDisraeli's preoccupation with foreign affairs and his long neglect of domestic issues cost him his prime ministership in the election in 1880. Gladstone vehemently attacked the foreign policy of Disraeli (now known as Lord Beaconsfield) as utterly immoral. Historian Paul Smith paraphrases the rhetorical tone which focused on attacking \"Beaconsfieldism\" as a:\n\nSmith notes that there was indeed some substance to the allegations, but, \"Most of this was partisan extravaganza, worthy of its target's own excursions against the Whigs.\"\n\nDisraeli himself was now the Earl of Beaconsfield in the House of Lords, and custom did not allow peers to campaign. His party was unable to deal effectively with the rhetorical onslaught. Although he had improved the organization of the Conservative Party, Disraeli was firmly based in the rural gentry, and had little contact with or understanding of the urban middle class that was increasingly dominating his party. Besides issues of foreign policy, even more important thing Conservatives were unable to effectively defend their economic record on the home front. The 1870s coincided with a long term global depression caused by the collapse of the worldwide railway boom of the 1870s which previously had been so profitable to Britain. The stress was growing by the late 1870s: prices fell, profits fell, employment fell, and there was downward pressure on wage rates that cause much hardship among the industrial working class. The free trade system supported by both parties made Britain defenseless against the flood of cheap wheat from North America, which was exacerbated by the worst harvest of the century in Britain in 1879. The party in power, of course, got the blame, and Liberals repeatedly emphasized the growing budget deficit as a measure of bad stewardship. In the election itself, Disraeli's party lost heavily up and down the line, especially in Scotland and Ireland, and in the urban boroughs. His Conservative strength fell from 351 to 238, while the Liberals jump from 250 to 353. Disraeli resigned on 21 April 1880.\n\n"}
{"id": "52228902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52228902", "title": "Rufus L. Perry", "text": "Rufus L. Perry\n\nRufus L. Perry (March 11, 1834 - June 18, 1895) was an educator, journalist, and Baptist minister from Brooklyn, New York. He was a prominent member of the African Civilization Society and was a co-founder of the Howard Colored Orphan Asylum, which developed from it. He was the editor of numerous newspapers and journals, most notably the \"National Monitor\". He was a prominent Baptist, and in 1886 he founded the Messiah Baptist Church, where he was pastor until his death. He was also a classical scholar.\n\nRufus L. Perry was born a slave on a plantation in Smith County, Tennessee on March 11, 1834 to Lewis Perry and Maria. The family was owned by Archibald W. Overton. Lewis was a talented mechanic, carpenter, and cabinet maker, and secured the means to bring his family to Nashville where the Rufus was able to attend the school for free blacks taught by Sally Porter. Lewis escaped to Canada when Rufus was seven years old, and Rufus was brought back to the plantation where his education gave him the reputation of being \"dangerous\". In August 1852 he was sold to a trader to be taken to Mississippi. However, Perry was able to forge a pass and after three weeks himself fled to Windsor, Ontario, Canada.\n\nIn 1854, Perry converted to the Baptist religion and soon after enrolled in the Kalamazoo Seminary in Kalamazoo, Michigan where he graduated in 1861. On or about October 9, 1861 he was ordained pastor of the Second Baptist Church at Ann Arbor, Michigan. He later became a pastor in St. Catherine's, Ontario, and Buffalo, New York.\n\nIn 1862, Perry and Rev Henry M. Wilson formed the Colored Orphan Asylum of the African Civilization Society for the education and development of African Americans. The organization promoted schools throughout the country and founded the Asylum at Weeksville, Brooklyn. Other prominent members included Daniel Payne, Henry Highland Garnet, Rev J. Sella Martin, and Amos N. Freeman. In 1869, Perry was general agent, superintendent of schools, and editor of the newspaper, and chairman of the building committee of the Society. The group fractured, and that year three officers, president Amos Freeman, director John Flamer, and Perry brought a lawsuit against corresponding secretary Rev. Henry M. Wilson, which was not successful. The Society closed in 1871, but the orphan asylum, later known as the Howard Colored Orphan Asylum, persisted and Perry served as its president into the 1880s.\n\nPerry was a prominent member of the Weeksville neighborhood and became a leader in the Baptist church and a well known journalist. In his career, he was editor of the \"Sunbeam\" an illustrated children's paper, coordinate editor of the \"American Baptist\", editor of the \"People's Journal\", and publisher of the \"National Monitor\". From about 1877 to 1887 he was corresponding secretary of the Consolidated American Baptist Missionary Convention and in 1887 was corresponding secretary of the American Educational Association and of the American Baptist Free Mission Society. In 1891 he was elected president of the New England Baptist Missionary Convention.\n\nIn 1883, when the Brooklyn Public Schools Board of Education contemplated closing the schools for African American children, Perry, Charles A. Dorsey, and Rev. William T. Dixon led the fight to keep the schools open. In 1886, he organized the Messiah Baptist Church in Brooklyn. His congregation included a number of prominent Brooklynites, including Phillip A. White, T. McCants Stewart, Charles A. Dorsey, John Q. Allen, Charles H. Lansing Jr. and W. H. Johnson.\n\nHe was also a scholar of classical ethnology and read Hebrew, Greek, and Latin. In 1887 he wrote a text, \"The Cushite, or the Children of Ham as seen by the Ancient Historians and Poets\", which he published as a book in 1893 under the title, \"The Cushite, Or, The Descendants of Ham: As Found in the Sacred Scriptures and in the Writings of Ancient Historians and Poets from Noah to the Christian Era\". This work traces the history of black people to a \"glorious past\". In that way, his work fits in a literature which attempts to disassociate nobility or goodness with whiteness. The introduction for the book was written by T. McCants Stewart.\n\nIn 1888, Perry was elected president of a national meeting of Baptists, which came to be a union meeting of the General Association of Western States and Territories, the Foreign Mission Convention of the United States and the American Baptist Missionary Union, with Charles H. Parrish Secretary. A major theme of the conventions was unity of African American Baptists and the consolidation of a number of bodies such as the Colored Missionary Associations and the Co-operation of the American Baptist Missionary Union.\n\nIn 1892, Perry was among a delegation of African Americans to visit president Benjamin Harrison, who was campaigning for reelection against Grover Cleveland (Cleveland would win the election). After the meeting, Perry declared himself unsatisfied with Harrison, who was a fellow Republican, because Harrison was not satisfactorily active in putting an end to violence against blacks in the South. Perry noted he was a lifelong Republican and would support other Republicans on the ticket.\n\nPerry was awarded a PhD in theology from Kalamazoo Seminary, and received two honorary degrees. He was granted an honorary Doctor of Philosophy on May 17, 1887 by Simmons College of Kentucky, the day after delivering a commencement lecture and a doctorate of divinity by Wilberforce University in 1888.\n\nPerry married Charlott Perry. They had eight children, Edity, Rufus L. Jr, Arthur, Latha, Eudha, Minnie, David, and Hattie B. Perry's son, Rufus Perry, was legal partner of J. Douglas Wetmore.\n\nOn Sunday, June 16, 1895, Perry fell into a coma from complication of diseases. He died at his home on the evening of June 18. His funeral was held at Concord Baptist Church in Brooklyn and his burial was in Cypress Hills Cemetery. The pall bearers were Dr. Amos Harper, T. McCants Stewart, T. Thomas Fortune, Dr. Daniel W. Wisher, Dr. T. Dwight Miller, and Dr. R. Watkins, and Rev W. F. Dixon delivered the eulogy.\n\n"}
{"id": "1014223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1014223", "title": "Sceat", "text": "Sceat\n\nA sceat (; \"sceattas\") was a small, thick silver coin minted in England, Frisia and Jutland during the Anglo-Saxon period.\n\nIts name derives from Old English \"\", meaning \"wealth\", \"money\", and \"coin\", which has been applied to these coins since the 17th century based on interpretations of the legal codes of Mercia and of Kent under its king Æthelberht. It is likely, however, that the coins were more often known to contemporaries as \"pennies\" (), much like their successor silver coins. They are very diverse, organized into over a hundred numbered types derived from the British Museum Catalogue of the 1890s and by broader alphabetical classifications laid out by British numismatist Stuart Rigold in the 1970s.\n\nThe huge volume of finds made in the last thirty years using metal detectors has radically altered understanding of this coinage and, while it is now clear that these coins were in everyday use across eastern and southern England in the early 8th century, it is also apparent that the current organization is in considerable need of adjustment.\n\nSceattas rarely carry legends of any kind, though a small number do name the mint of London and others carry short runic legends such as 'Aethiliraed' and 'Efe', which probably refer to moneyers rather than kings.\n\nAlthough sceattas present many problems of organization, attribution, and dating, they also carry a breathtaking variety of designs bespeaking extensive Celtic, classical, and Germanic influences. These designs include human figures, animals, birds, crosses, plants, and monsters, all of which have been recently elucidated by Anna Gannon. Tony Abramson has published an illustrated guide for nonexperts. One series (U), has been linked to King Aethelbald of Mercia (716-57) on the basis of its iconography, though this attribution is tenuous and recent research suggests it is very unlikely. It has also been suggested on the basis of the iconography of certain sceattas that they were issued by ecclesiastical authorities, such as bishops or abbots. Minting may not have been a strictly urban or secular prerogative, and coins were used for many payments and purposes beyond pure commercial buying and selling.\n\nAssociating sceattas with particular mints or kingdoms is very difficult and must be based primarily upon study of find-spots. Most have been found by metal detector since the 1970s. In this way, it has been possible to attribute some types with considerable confidence, such as series H with Wessex (and in particular Southampton) and series S with Essex. In Denmark, series X has been plausibly associated with the early trading center at Ribe. \n\nThe chronology of the sceattas is also very hard to unravel. Some of the earliest series use the same designs as the pale gold thrymsas (similar to the continental ; notionally one-third of a pure gold solidus) and, by analogy with coins from the better-understood Frankish material, can be dated to the 680s. It is known that sceattas were minted in the Frisian town of Dorestad (just south of Utrecht in the Netherlands); they were a commonly circulating currency in the Frankish realm until the monetary reform of Pepin the Short instituted at Ver in 755.\n\nThe thirty or forty years after 680 saw the production and circulation of the 'primary series' of sceattas, which were generally of good metal quality and weight They were largely minted in Kent and the Thames Estuary, though a few were produced in Northumbria bearing the name of King Aldfrith The 'secondary series', struck from to saw a massive expansion of minting all over southern and eastern England to every major Anglo-Saxon kingdom. One or more types can be attributed with more or less confidence to Wessex, Mercia, Sussex, Essex, Kent, Northumbria, and East Anglia. \n\nThere was much copying and debasement, and weight could fluctuate considerably There are relatively few hoards from this period with which to construct even a relative chronology, and any new discovery could radically alter our current understanding. The end of the sceattas is especially difficult to pinpoint, and it is likely that there was a period of some decades in the middle of the 8th century when very few if any coins were being produced in England.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32497600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32497600", "title": "Sergey Shubinsky", "text": "Sergey Shubinsky\n\nSergey Nikolayevich Shubinsky (; 1834–1913) was a Russian historian and journalist who edited two widely read magazines concerned with the history of Imperial Russia.\n\nShubinsky had a successful military career from 1854 onward, retiring with the rank of Major General in 1887. He developed a keen interest in the comparatively recent history of his country while collecting hitherto unpublished anecdotes about Prince Potemkin.\n\nShubinsky edited an illustrated monthly periodical, \"Old and New Russia\", in 1875-79, before setting up a more widely distributed magazine, \"The Historical Herald\", in 1880. He remained in charge of the periodical until his death in 1913. The publisher was Aleksey Suvorin. Shubinsky also authored a splattering of historical articles for the Brockhaus and Efron Encyclopedic Dictionary.\n\nShubinsky's main rivals in the realm of Russian historical journalism were Pyotr Bartenev, the editor of \"The Russian Archive\", and Mikhail Semevsky with his own periodical, \"Old Times in Russia\".\n"}
{"id": "28681785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28681785", "title": "Social Science History", "text": "Social Science History\n\nSocial Science History is a quarterly peer-reviewed academic journal. It is the official journal of the Social Science History Association. Its articles bring an analytic, theoretical, and often quantitative approach to historical evidence. Its editor-in-chief is Anne McCants (Massachusetts Institute of Technology).\n\nThe first issue came out in the fall of 1976. The journal's founders intended to \"improve the quality of historical explanation\" with \"theories and methods from the social science disciplines\" and to make generalizations across historical cases. The journal was first published by the University Center for International Studies at the University of Pittsburgh then starting in the 1980s by Duke University Press. Starting in 2015 the publisher is Cambridge University Press.\n\nThe Social Science History Association invited bids from publishers and told the Duke University Press in June 2012 of its intent to end the agreement for the press to publish \"Social Science History\". The association planned to seek another publisher. Duke asserted it owned the title of the journal, though not the copyright for its contents. In March 2013 the association sued the press for copyright infringement. The court was the U.S. federal court in the eastern district of North Carolina. The judge was Terrence Boyle. When the case was resolved the association was able to switch publishers.\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in: Academic Search Elite, Academic Search Premier, , Arts and Humanities Citation Index, Current Contents/Arts and Humanities, Historical Abstracts, International Bibliography of Periodical Literature (IBZ), International Political Science Abstracts, Scopus, Social Sciences Citation Index, SocINDEX, SocINFO, and Sociological Abstracts. According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2012 impact factor of 0.622.\n\n"}
{"id": "32172139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32172139", "title": "Stanisław Bóbr-Tylingo", "text": "Stanisław Bóbr-Tylingo\n\nStanisław Bóbr-Tylingo (1919–2001) was a Polish-born historian who specialized in 19th-century Polish history, a Polish resistance fighter who after 1945 had to live his life in exile in Britain and Canada, and a decorated veteran of the Polish Warsaw Uprising in August–September 1944. For most of his adult life he was a professor of History at Saint Mary’s University in Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada.\n\nStanisław Tylingo was born in Warsaw on 30 March 1919. His family were formerly owners of the estate Suderwa near Wilno (Vilnius), but because of participation in the Revolution of 1905 had lost that property to Tsarist confiscation, and consequently had moved to Warsaw. There he attended the Gymnasium Tadeusz Czacki and the Lyceum Adam Mickiewicz where he passed his matriculation exams in the last days before the outbreak of World War II. Consequently, he had to pursue his university studies during the German occupation in the (\"tajne komplety\") underground University of Warsaw.\n\nThe German and Soviet invasions of Poland in September 1939 caught him in a training camp in eastern Poland near the city of Grodno. Already while in secondary school (probably in 1937–38) he was initiated into the National Radical Camp (\"Obóz Narodowo Radykalny\" or ONR), a nationalist conspiracy organization opposed to the then government of the \"Colonels\", and when Poland was attacked, he joined the ONR’s military force, the \"Związek Jaszczurczy\" (ZJ or Salamander Association), which later in 1942 became the National Armed Forces (\"Narodowe Siły Zbrojne\" or NSZ; not to be confused with the Polish Government-in-Exile’s \"Armia Krajowa\" or Home Army).\n\nWhen the Soviets invaded from the east (17 September 1939), Stanisław joined up with the defenders of Grodno and fought a three-day battle with the Red Army in which the Soviets lost 800 men, 19 tanks, and four armored cars. The Poles nevertheless were overpowered by their two neighbors, so Stanisław destroyed his weapons and made his way back to Warsaw, where he continued to participate in underground activity against the German and Soviet occupation. He was involved in actions in both Warsaw and Kraków, and for a short time in Rzeszow and Radom. He became an instructor in the underground Infantry Military College of the NSZ, and was given the pseudonym Bóbr (Beaver), which, like many of his fellow soldiers, he retained for the rest of his life.\n\nIt was also during the time of the occupation that he began his historical studies at the underground University of Warsaw under the direction of Prof. Maria Ossowska in Philosophy, Prof. Tadeusz Manteuffel in Medieval History, Prof. Janusz Woliński in Modern Polish History, and Prof. Władysław Tomkiewicz in Modern European History.\n\nThe Warsaw Uprising of the Home Army on 1 August 1944 caught him in Warsaw. He belonged to that part of the NSZ that had subordinated itself in March 1944 to the command of the Home Army, and so he fought in the Uprising in the NSZ unit \"Koło\"; with his fellow students he formed the Academic Legion. He fought in the Old Town district on the Redoubt of Senatorska – Miodowa Street where he became commander of a barricade from 7 to 14 August (and where his brother Marian was killed by a tank missile). He was one of five soldiers that obtained the capture of a German antitank cannon in Foch Street. Then to the end of August he was deputy commander of the squad that captured and then defended the left flank at the Polish Bank. Here he received a severe wound in his right leg, but it did not make him withdraw from the fighting.\n\nHis unit was one of the last to abandon the Old Town through the sewer system on the morning of 2 September 1944 at about 10:00 am. A few minutes later the Germans took Krasiński Square, where was located the last free opening to the sewers in Old Town, It took about six hours for him to pass through the sewers to the city center (Śródmieście) during which time his injured leg was in constant contact with the putrefying matter in the sewer: but contrary to what one would expect his injury began to heal very quickly.\n\nIn the city center he held command of a position on Jerozolimski Avenue in the Battalion of Captain \"Barski\" in the \"Koło\" unit, and on Chmielna Street where he lost his last friends in the ONR from before the war. A hand grenade explosion drove binoculars into his eyes, but fortunately he got back his eyesight. For his service in the Old Town he was awarded the Cross of Merit, and then as one of only four NSZ soldiers, he was decorated with the Virtuti Militari Class V in Bracki Street directly from the hands of General Bór-Komorowski, the overall commander of the Uprising. At the beginning of the Uprising he had been a corporal officer cadet; he left Warsaw as a second lieutenant, having received the highest possible Polish military decoration.\n\nUpon surrender of the Home Army on 3 October 1944 along with the rest of the AK he became a German POW interned first in Oflag Lamsdorf, Silesia, and then Murnau, Bavaria. Upon liberation in 1945 he was assigned to the Holy Cross Brigade (\"Brygada Świętokrzyska\", from the region of the Holy Cross Mountains in southern Poland) where he was given command of a platoon in the guard companies. It was there that he met his future wife, Captain Halina Reszke, Chief of the Auxiliary Women’s Service on the Staff of the NSZ.\n\nBefore the outbreak of World War II, he had had military training as a parachutist, and so after the end of the war he made a jump back into Poland in order to create a communication link and an evacuation route to free countries in the West from out of the now Soviet occupied Poland. In January 1946 he received leave without limit from the NSZ to pursue historical studies in Paris, which he completed with a doctorate under Prof. Pierre Renouvin in 1955. His thesis was on the diplomacy of the Polish Question in the time of Napoleon III. Halina Jadwiga Reszke, now his wife, also pursued her studies in Biology in Paris.\n\nHis first academic position was as \"worden\" of the Polish students at the Cork Campus of the National University of Ireland. Then in 1958 he secured a position as History and French language teacher at the Lingfield School in Surrey in England. It was at this time that he began to publish articles on his specialty in the 'free' historical journals in Paris (\"Revue Internationale d’Histoire Politique et Constitutionnelle\", and its successor \"Politique …\"), London (\"Bellona\" and \"Teki Historyczne\"), and Rome (\"Antemurale\"). Also at this time he won acceptance as a corresponding member of the Polish Scientific Society in Exile (\"Polskie Towarzystwo Naukowo na Obczyżne\" or PTNO). He obtained his Habilitation in the Polish University in Exile in 1964 under Professor General Marian Kukiel, who wrote of him that \"he is at this moment one of the best historical experts on diplomacy in the time of the [French] Second Empire.\"\n\nLikewise from 1958 he was a member of the Polish Historical Society in Great Britain (\"Polskie Towarzystwo Historyczne w Wielkiej Britanii\") which society published \"Teki Historyczne - Cahiers d’Historie - Historical papers\", where he published 18 articles from volume 5 (1951–52) to volume 22 (2000–01), mainly on the diplomatic relations of the European powers re Poland in the period of the Crimean War 1854-56 and the January Uprising 1863; in volume 19 he published two articles on the topic of German diplomacy towards the newly restored Poland in the years 1918-1919. He was a long-standing member of the editorial committee of the \"Teki Historyczne\" and chairman of that committee for the decade 1981-1991 – and again up to his death in 2001 a member of the committee. He published 44 book reviews in \"Teki Historyczne\", the last of which were sent in just two months before his death.\n\nFrom 1959 onward he began publishing his research in North America: in the \"Etudes Slaves\" (Montreal) and the \"Polish Review\" (New York). Then in 1963 he obtained an appointment as Assistant Professor in the History Department of Saint Mary’s University in Halifax, Nova Scotia. He (together with his wife teaching in the Biology Department) remained at SMU for the rest of his life. He was promoted to Associate Professor in 1963, granted tenure in 1965, promoted to Full Professor in 1971, retired in 1984, taught part-time to 1986, and then made Professor Emeritus in 1988. During his retirement he wrote a history of the restored Polish Republic, 1919-1947 (337 pages in typescript).\n\nTypically his publications were based on primary research in historical archives: in France, Britain, Germany, Belgium, Denmark, USA, and Istanbul. He never finished his last work, a history of Poland from origins to the mid 17th century on which he spent the last five years of his life (970 pages in typescript). The work was cut short at 1650 by his sudden death, and he had intended to write a history of the Crimean War. He died rather unexpectedly by a stroke on 18 December 2001 and is buried with his wife (died 17 April 2010) in the Oakridge Memory Gardens, Sackville, Nova Scotia.\n\nBoth Stanisław and his wife Halina remained Polish patriots throughout their lives. They entertained at their home many Polish friends, among them Prof. Stanisław Swianiewicz and Prof. Lillian Falk (both also faculty members at SMU), General Stanisław Kopański, Professor General Marian Kukiel, and many other accomplished people of Polish origin. The Bóbr-Tylingos were responsible for the creation of the Polish Association of Halifax-Dartmouth (1982), a Polish Apostolate with a Polish priest, a Polish School, Polish scouts, a Polish publishing house, and a Polish library. They both deserve well of Poles and Poland.\n\n1) Chodakiewicz, Marek Jan, \"The Warsaw Rising, 1944: Perception and Reality,\" p. 10. n. 20. <www.warsawuprising.com/doc/chodakiewicz1.pdf>\n\n2) Kulczycki, John, \"Polish Historians in the United States and Canada,\" \"Polish Review,\" Vol. 53, Issue 4, 2008, pp. 457–465.\n\n3) Polskie Towarzystwo Naukowo na Obczyżnie (London), \"Rocznik\" 44, Year 2000-2001, Nekrologi, p. 29.\n\n4) Suchcitz, Andrzej, \"Prof. Dr Hb. Stanisław Bóbr-Tylingo (1919-2001)\", \"Teki Historyczne\" (London), Vol. 23, 2004, pp. 335–337.\n\n5) Wesolowski, Prof. Dr. Zdzislaw P., \"The Order of the Virtuti Militari and its Cavaliers, 1792-1992: Order Virtuti Militari i jego Kawalerowie.\" Warsaw, Poland / Miami, FL: Hallmark Press, 1992, p. 537. This is a bilingual bicentennial edition.\n\n6) Witkowski, Leszek, \"Professor Stanisław Bóbr-Tylingo,\" \"Recogito\" 13, Styczeń-Luty 2002. <https://archive.is/20130222064953/http://www.recogito.pologne.net/recogito_13/poczta2.htm>\n\n7) Witkowski, Leszek, \"Bóbr–Tylingo Stanisław -- Życiorysy,\" \"Narodowe Siły Zbrojne\", 22 Kwiecień 2011. <http://nsz.com.pl/index.php/zyciorysy/242-stanisaw-bobr-tylingo>\n\n8) \"Wysiłek Zbrojny w II Wojnie Światowej: Prace Kongresu Kultury Polskiej na Obczyżnie\". London: Polskie Towarzystwo Naukowe na Obczyżnie, 1988, p. 153.\n\n9) File Folder S. Bobr-Tylingo, Saint Mary's University Archive, Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada. Contains a full publication list and research activities of S. B-T.\n"}
{"id": "34586634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34586634", "title": "Stephen Peter Llewellyn", "text": "Stephen Peter Llewellyn\n\nStephen Peter Llewellyn (18 July 1913–14 November 1960) was a New Zealand soldier, historian, journalist and novelist. He was born in Hereford, Herefordshire, England on 18 July 1913.\n"}
{"id": "1174964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1174964", "title": "Technological evolution", "text": "Technological evolution\n\nTechnological evolution is a theory of radical transformation of society through technological development. This theory originated with Czech philosopher Radovan Richta.\n\n\"Mankind In Transition; A View of the Distant Past, the Present and the Far Future\", Masefield Books, 1993. Technology (which Richta defines as \"a material entity created by the application of mental and physical effort to nature in order to achieve some value\") evolves in three stages: tools, machine, automation. This evolution, he says, follows two trends:\n\nThe pretechnological period, in which all other animal species remain today aside from some avian and primate species was a non-rational period of the early prehistoric man.\n\nThe emergence of technology, made possible by the development of the rational faculty, paved the way for the first stage: the tool. A tool provides a mechanical advantage in accomplishing a physical task, such as an arrow, plow, or hammer that augments physical labor to more efficiently achieve his objective. Later animal-powered tools such as the plow and the horse, increased the productivity of food production about tenfold over the technology of the hunter-gatherers. Tools allow one to do things impossible to accomplish with one's body alone, such as seeing minute visual detail with a microscope, manipulating heavy objects with a pulley and cart, or carrying volumes of water in a bucket.\n\nThe second technological stage was the creation of the machine. A machine (a powered machine to be more precise) is a tool that substitutes the element of human physical effort, and requires only to control its function. Machines became widespread with the industrial revolution, though windmills, a type of machine, are much older.\n\nExamples of this include cars, trains, computers, and lights. Machines allow humans to\nTremendously exceed the limitations of their bodies. Putting a machine on the farm, a tractor, increased food productivity at least tenfold over the technology of the plow and the horse.\n\nThe third, and final stage of technological evolution is the automation. The automation is a machine that removes the element of human control with an automatic algorithm. Examples of machines that exhibit this characteristic are digital watches, automatic telephone switches, pacemakers, and computer programs.\n\nIt's crucial to understand that the three stages outline the introduction of the fundamental types of technology, and so all three continue to be widely used today. A spear, a plow, a pen, a knife, a glove, a chicken and an optical microscope are all examples of tools.\n\nThe process of technological evolution culminates with the ability to achieve all the material values technologically possible and desirable by mental effort.\n\nAn economic implication of the above idea is that intellectual labour will become increasingly more important relative to physical labour. Contracts and agreements around information will become increasingly more common at the marketplace. Expansion and creation of new kinds of institutes that works with information such as universities, book stores, patent-trading companies, etc. is considered an indication that a civilization is in technological evolution.\n\nThis highlights the importance underlining the debate over intellectual property in conjunction with decentralized distribution systems such as today's internet. Where the price of information distribution is going towards zero with ever more efficient tools to distribute information is being invented. Growing amounts of information being distributed to an increasingly larger customer base as times goes by. With growing disintermediation in said markets and growing concerns over the protection of intellectual property rights it is not clear what form markets for information will take with the evolution of the information age.\n\n"}
{"id": "51922831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51922831", "title": "The Arcanum (non fiction)", "text": "The Arcanum (non fiction)\n\nThe Arcanum is a 1998 book by Janet Gleeson telling the story of the invention of European porcelain and the start of the porcelain industry outside China and Japan.\n\nThe book details the events leading to the discovery of the formula for porcelain (the intended meaning of the book title), the ensuing start of the porcelain industry in Meissen, and its rapid spread to other places in Europe in the 18th century. The characters of the plot are: \n\n"}
{"id": "14278490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14278490", "title": "Thomas of Eccleston", "text": "Thomas of Eccleston\n\nThomas of Eccleston was a thirteenth-century English Franciscan chronicler. He is known for \"De Adventu Fratrum Minorum in Angliam\". It runs from 1224, when Franciscan friars first came to England, under Agnellus of Pisa, to about 1258. He styles himself simply \"Brother Thomas\" and John Bale seems to have first given him the title \"of Eccleston\".\n\nHe appears to have entered the order about 1232-3 and to have been a student at Oxford between 1230 and 1240. After the latter year he was stationed at the convent in London, but he does not appear to have ever held any office in the order.\n\n<div id=\"imggoatse\">\n\nThe \"De Adventu\" is a collection of notes rather than a finished work. Incidentally it throws some light on the trend of early Franciscan events and thought in general.\n\nEccleston declares that he spent twenty-six years collecting material for his chronicle, most of the information it contains being derived from personal knowledge or verbal communication, although he seems to have had access to certain written documents now lost. He describes vividly what has been called the heroic period of the Franciscan movement in England. In spite of the absence of dates and of any chronological sequence and of its tendency to extol the English province above all others, his chronicle is accurate and reliable in all that concerns the establishment and spread of the Friars Minor in England.\n\nFour manuscripts of the \"De Adventu\", all of which go back to one lost archetype, are known to scholars. The chronicle has been often edited; in part by Brewer in the \"Monumenta Franciscana\" (Rolls Series, London, 1858); and by Howlett in the same series (1882); by the Friars Minor at Quaracchi (in Analecta Franciscana, I, 1885, 217-57); by Liebermann in the \"Monumenta Germaniæ\" (XXVIII, Hanover, 1885, 560-69).\n\nThere are at least two English translations of Eccleston's work. One by Father Cuthbert, O.S.F.C., \"The Friars and how they came to England\" (London, 1903), and the other by E. Gurney Salter, \"The Coming of the Friars Minor to England and Germany\" (London, 1926).\n\n"}
{"id": "54449692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54449692", "title": "Vera Anstey", "text": "Vera Anstey\n\nVera Anstey (; 3 January 1889 – 26 November 1976) was a British economist and noted expert on the economy of India. Anstey is most closely associated with the London School of Economics where she served as a lecturer and chaired the admissions committee, and with the wider University of London where she served as dean of the faculty of economics.\n\nAnstey was born in Reigate, Surrey on 3 January 1889. Her father was leather merchant James Powell and her mother was Mary Sophia Powell (). The family consisted of her parents, three daughters and three sons, with Vera being the second of the three daughters.\n\nShe was schooled at Cheltenham Ladies' College and spent a year at the Hoch Conservatory in Frankfurt, Germany studying German and music (piano and violin). Her education continued at Bedford School for Women where she studied for a diploma in public health. Anstey would then attend the London School of Economics to study for a degree in economic history in 1909, graduating in 1913 with first class honours.\n\nAnstey married Percy Louis Anstey in 1913. Percy was a former actor who had then studied sociology at the London School of Economics, before serving as the head of the economics department at the University of Bristol. He took the role of principle at the Sydenham College of Commerce and Economics, Bombay (now Mumbai) in 1914 and Vera accompanied him to India.\n\nHer role in India involved examining students studying for a BCom degree at Sydenham College, in addition to her formal role, she developed a strong interest in the Indian economy and began to collect significant quantities of economic data concerning the Indian economy.\n\nHer husband and Arthur, their youngest child, died from cholera during November 1920. This resulted in Vera returning to the United Kingdom with their two surviving children. Anstey, by now in need of a job to support herself and her two children, would take a role as an assistant lecturer in economic history at the London School of Economics in 1921. She was promoted and became a lecturer in commerce during 1929, received a DSc (Econ) degree in 1930 and was appointed the Sir Ernest Cassel reader in commerce in 1941.\n\nAnstey's teaching at the London School of Economics involved significant coverage of the economy of India, including responsibility for teaching courses on Indian trade and Indian production, initially to undergraduate students, and eventually to graduate students. She also established a seminar on Indian economic development which was well received and which she ran until 1965, and would write several texts concerning the Indian economy, which gained widespread recognition.\n\nHer work at the university also took in several administrative roles; she served as senior tutor and chair of the undergraduate admissions committee from 1939 to 1959, and aided in the university's relocation from London to Cambridge during World War II. Anstey would go on to serve as dean of the school of economics for the wider University of London (of which the London School of Economics is a constituent college) during 1950 to 1954.\n\nThe Government approached Anstey in 1950 to take a position on the Royal Commission on the Taxation of Profits and Income, examining potential changes to taxation policy in the UK. Anstey served on the commission from appointment in 1951 to completion of the work in 1955.\n\nAnstey retired from a full-time position at the London School of Economics in 1954, remaining a part-time member of staff until finally retiring in 1964.\n"}
{"id": "8126068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8126068", "title": "Women in post-classical warfare", "text": "Women in post-classical warfare\n\nA variety of roles were played by women in post-classical warfare. James Illston says \"the field of medieval gender studies is a growing one, and nowhere is this expansion more evident than the recent increase in studies which address the roles of medieval women in times of war...this change in research has been invaluable\". He provides a 20-page bibliography of dozens of recent scholarly books and articles, most of them connected to the crusades.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "464712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=464712", "title": "Zeno brothers", "text": "Zeno brothers\n\nThe Zeno brothers, namely Nicolò (c. 1326–c. 1402) and Antonio Zeno (died c. 1403) were Italian noblemen from Venice living in the second half of the 14th century, who were famous during the Renaissance for a possible but controversial exploration of the north Atlantic and Arctic waters. They were brothers of the Venetian naval hero Carlo Zeno. The Zeno family was an established part of the aristocracy of Venice and held the franchise for transportation between Venice and the Holy Land during the Crusades. \"Zeno\" is the Italianization of the Venetian surname \"Zen\".\n\nNicolò and Antonio are notable for a number of letters and map (called the Zeno map) published in the year 1558 by one of their descendants, also named Nicolò Zeno. This descendant was a historian with other published works on the history of Venice. The letters, allegedly written by the brothers around 1400, describe a voyage of exploration that they say they underook throughout the North Atlantic (and by some interpretations to North America), under the command of a prince named Zichmni (who some have identified as Henry Sinclair).\n\nThe letters and accompanying map are controversial and are regarded by at least one historian as a hoax, either by the Zeno brothers themselves or by their descendant who wrote a narrative which he said was based on what was left of letters that he had torn up as a boy. In 1989 Italian scholar Giorgio Padoan published a study suggesting that there is some authenticity in their travels and that Nicolò is not to be found in any document between the years 1396-1400 (so he could have been at least in Iceland), while Andrea Di Robilant has written a book on this possibility.\n\nThe letters are divided into two parts. The first set contains letters from Nicolò to Antonio. The second consists of letters from Antonio to their brother Carlo.\n\nThe first letters (from Nicolò to Antonio) tell how Nicolò set off in 1380 on a voyage from Venice to England and Flanders. Evidence exists that such a voyage took place, and that Nicolò returned to Venice around 1385.\n\nIn the letters, Nicolò describes being stranded on an island between Great Britain and Iceland called Frislanda, which is described as being larger in size than Ireland.\n\nBy chance Nicolò is rescued by Zichmni, who is described as a prince who owned some islands called Porlanda off the southern coast of Frislanda, and who ruled the duchy of Sorant, or Sorand, south-east of Frislanda. It has been suggested that Frislanda is in fact a stand-in for the Faroe Islands with individual islands mistakenly merged into a single landmass by Nicolò the younger, although Frisland and the Faroe Islands both appear on several maps, many hundreds of miles apart.\n\nNicolò invites Antonio to come to Frislanda with him, which he does, and stays for fourteen years. Under Zichmni's direction, Antonio attacks \"Estlanda\", which is ostensibly the Shetland Islands, as indicated by the similarity of place names mentioned in the letters.\n\nZichmni then attempts to attack Iceland. After finding it too well defended, he attacks seven islands along its eastern side: Bres, Talas, Broas, Iscant, Trans, Mimant, and Damberc. All of these islands are fictitious. An alternate interpretation finds that in transcribing the letters the Zen brothers' descendant mistook a reference to \"Estlanda\" for \"Islanda\" or Iceland, thus accounting for both the presence of those superfluous islands off Iceland and the mysterious absence of an equal number of islands off of the Shetland Islands. Further evidence in support of this claim is the similarity of place names in the Zenos' \"Islanda\" to modern day Shetland, for instance the island of Bressay for \"Bres\" and Danaberg sound near Lerwick for \"Damberc\".\n\nZichmni then builds a fort on Bres and leaves Nicolò in charge of it. Nicolò makes a voyage to Greenland and finds a monastery with central heating. According to the alternate interpretation cited above, in which the travellers had yet to leave Estlanda, the subsequent destination is in fact Iceland, explaining the presence of geothermal heating and other observations.\n\nZichmni receives word that a group of lost fisherman from Frislanda have returned after an absence of over twenty-five years. The fishermen describe making landfall in the far west in unknown countries called Estotiland and Drogeo. They claim to have encountered strange animals as well as cannibals, from whom they escaped only after teaching the cannibals how to fish.\n\nInspired by the tales of the fishermen, Zichmni undertakes a voyage to the west with Antonio in charge of his fleet. To the west of Frislanda (see Zeno Map), they encounter a large island called Icaria, which does not exist.\n\nAccording to the letters, the inhabitants of Icaria greet them before they can make landfall. Only one person among the Icarians is able to speak a language that Zichmni understands. The inhabitants state that visitors to the island are not welcome and that they will defend the island to the last man if need be. Zichmni sails along the island looking for a place to make landfall, but the inhabitants chase him and Zichmni abandons the effort.\n\nSailing west, they make landfall at a promontory called Trin on the southern tip of \"Engrouelanda\". Zichmni likes the climate and the soil, but his crew find it inhospitable. The sailors return home with Antonio, while Zichmni stays on to explore the area and build a town.\n\nThe account of the voyages given by the younger Nicolò continues to attract debate. Some of the islands they allegedly visited either conflate existing locations or do not exist at all. Research has shown the Zeno brothers were occupied elsewhere when they supposedly were doing their exploring. Contemporary Venetian court documents place Nicolò as undergoing trial for embezzlement in 1394 for his actions as military governor of Modone and Corone in Greece from 1390–1392. He wrote his last will and testament in Venice in 1400, many years after his alleged death in Frislanda around 1394. There is disagreement about the brothers' whereabouts at the time of the supposed voyages, with some readings of archival records placing the brothers in Venice at that time. Andrea di Robilant suggests this interpretation is in error.\n\nAccording to \"The Dictionary of Canadian Biography Online\", \"the Zeno affair remains one of the most preposterous and at the same time one of the most successful fabrications in the history of exploration.\" Di Robilant disagrees, stating that the younger Nicolò was \"a first-class muddler, not a fablemonger\", whose inaccuracy was the result of second-hand retelling that still contains much of the truth of his forebears' voyages.\n\n\n\n"}
