{"id": "3746920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3746920", "title": "1271 Avenue of the Americas", "text": "1271 Avenue of the Americas\n\n1271 Avenue of the Americas is a 48-story office building located in Rockefeller Center in New York City. It opened in 1959 as the Time & Life Building, designed by architect Wallace Harrison, of Harrison, Abramovitz, and Harris.\n\n1271 Avenue of the Americas was the first of four in Rockefeller Center designed by Harrison, Abramovitz, & Harris on the west side of Sixth Avenue. Harris served as the building's project manager and was responsible for overall planning. The Time & Life Building was the first expansion of Rockefeller Center west of the Avenue of the Americas.\n\nConstruction on the Time-Life Building's steelwork started in April 1958, and the structure topped out in November of that year. The cornerstone of the building was laid in June 1959, after the building's structure had been completed, and the first tenants began moving into the tower in December 1959.\n\nAir rights were purchased from the Roxy Theatre to the west. The Roxy was torn down in 1960 to erect an office tower connected to the Time & Life Building.\n\nThe building is clad in green glass and features column-free floors of . Large murals by Josef Albers and Fritz Glarner adorn its lobby, which integrates a serpentine patterned sidewalk design found on the sidewalks of Rio de Janeiro's Copacabana Beach with the adjacent sidewalk, a salute to its location on The Avenue of the Americas.\n\nTime Inc., the publisher of \"Time\", \"Life\", \"Sports Illustrated\", \"Fortune\", \"House & Home\", and \"Architectural Forum\" magazines initially occupied 21 floors. CNN's \"American Morning\" was based there from 2002 to 2006. The ground floor studio is now occupied by the studio of SportsNet New York and CNBC \"Squawk Box\".\n\nIn July 2002, the building's ground floor interior was made an interior landmark by the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission.\n\nIn May 2014, Time Inc announced that the company was planning to leave the Time & Life Building for the Brookfield Place complex in lower Manhattan.\n\nThe Hemisphere Club, a members-only restaurant during the day, was located atop the building on the 48th floor; in the evenings it opened to the public as the \"Tower Suite\". The restaurant was operated by Restaurant Associates, which also operated The Four Seasons Restaurant, La Fonda del Sol, The Rainbow Room, The Forum of the Twelve Caesars, and later Windows on the World. The Hemisphere Club closed some time after 1991.\n\nLa Fonda del Sol was a Latin American–themed restaurant opened in the Time & Life Building's lobby by Joseph Baum in 1960. It featured bright, colorful, whimsical interiors designed by Alexander Girard and furniture by Charles Eames. It closed in 1971 and was replaced with a Fidelity Investments branch.\n\nIn addition to furniture for the La Fonda del Sol restaurant, Charles Eames designed iconic chairs for the offices of Time Incorporated which have become known as Time-Life Chairs. Eames designed them as a favor to Henry Luce, who had allowed Eames to use photos from the Time-Life archives for the pavilion he designed at the 1959 American National Exhibition in Moscow. The chairs remain in production and popular to this day, manufactured by Herman Miller of Zeeland, MI, though the original design with four legs at the base has been revised to include a fifth leg, referred to as a 5 star-base, for stability and to meet updated codes.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25030560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25030560", "title": "Abraham Asscher", "text": "Abraham Asscher\n\nAbraham Asscher (19 September 1880 – 2 May 1950) was a Dutch Jewish businessman from Amsterdam, a politician, and a leader of his community who attained notoriety for his role during the German occupation of the Netherlands (1940–1945).\n\nAsscher’s grandfather founded the Asscher Diamond Company (now the Royal Asscher Diamond Company) in 1854, but it was Abraham and his brother Joseph who built its international fame. In 1907 the brothers opened a new factory at 127 Tolstraat in Amsterdam and soon they received a request from King Edward VII of Great Britain to cleave the legendary Cullinan Diamond, the largest rough gem-quality diamond ever found.\n\nAsscher translated his growing success in business into political and community involvement. In 1917, he took up a seat on the Provincial Council of North Holland for the \"Liberale Staatspartij\" (Liberal State Party). And in the 1930s, he became a leader and spokesman of the Dutch Jewish community. He served as the President of the nation’s central Jewish organization, the \"Nederlandsch-Israëlitsch Kerkgenootschap\" (Dutch Jewish Congregation).\n\nTherefore, when in 1933 Jewish refugees began to flee in numbers to the Netherlands from the Nazi regime in Germany, it was Asscher, along with Professor , who established (with government cooperation) the \"\" (Committee for Special Jewish Affairs - CBJB). An offshoot of the CBJB, the \"Comité voor Joodsche Vluchtelingen\" (Committee for Jewish Refugees - CJV), was formed to provide direct service to the refugees. The CJV provided advice and, as needed, financial support to the refugees, and worked to facilitate the emigration of refugees away from continental Europe. David Cohen was the chair of the CJV for most of its eight years of existence. Both of these committees were dissolved by Germany in 1941, and their responsibilities transferred to a Jewish Council.\n\nIt was in this context (see Netherlands in World War II) that the Nazi occupiers later, on February 12, 1941, ordered Asscher and Cohen to head up a new ; the only example of a Jewish Council in the German occupations of Western Europe. The first meeting was held at the Asscher Brothers headquarters in Tolstraat. The \"Joodse Raad\" had to mediate the occupation government’s orders to the Dutch Jewish community and, beginning in July 1942, to help organize the selection of Jewish deportees from the Netherlands to the work camps.\n\nIn September 1943, most of the remaining staff of the \"Joodse Raad\", including Asscher were deported. Asscher, like most deported Dutch Jews, initially went to the Westerbork camp in the Drenthe province in the east of the country. From there, the Nazis transported him to Bergen-Belsen concentration camp.\n\nAsscher survived his imprisonment at Bergen-Belsen and returned to Amsterdam after the conclusion of the war. Aside from historian , who also survived Theresienstadt concentration camp, all other members of the Jewish Council perished, including the Chief Rabbi of Amsterdam Lodewijk Sarlouis. The Dutch government instituted investigations against Asscher and his colleague David Cohen into charges of collaboration. A \"Joodsche Eereraad\" (Jewish Council of Honor or Community Tribunal) was also established to investigate wartime collaboration charges on behalf of the Jewish community. It was particularly concerned with activity after August 15, 1942; a point from which, according to the accusers' post-war perspective, it was considered obvious that the \"Joodse Raad\" was assisting in a mass-murder of Dutch Jews in German-occupied Poland’s Nazi extermination camps. However, what was obvious to either Jews or non-Jews in the Netherlands at the time is a matter of considerable historical controversy. The Nazi occupiers went to great lengths to conceal the fate of deported Jews from the Dutch population, including Dutch Jews and the Joodse Raad.\n\nIn 1947 the Council of Honor ruled to exclude Asscher and Cohen from ever holding public office in the Dutch Jewish Community. By then, Asscher—deeply wounded by what he saw as unjust charges leveled against him—had left the Community. When Asscher died in 1950 in accordance with his wishes he was not buried in a Jewish cemetery, but instead at the Zorgvlied cemetery. However, in the same year, due to constant protests and appeals, the Jewish community tribunal after reconsidering the charges reversed and annulled its decree to exclude both Asscher and Cohen from official posts in the Jewish community, exonerating them completely. The Dutch government, taking its cue from the Jewish community, dropped all charges of its own the year following. Abraham Asscher has been officially exonerated of all charges, even if it came too late for him to know about it.\n\nThe actions of Asscher and the \"Joodse Raad\" during the German occupation were and are a controversial topic. Hans Knoop, in his history of the \"Joodse Raad\", came to this conclusion:\n\n“They issued deportation notices and urged the Jews in \"Het Joodsche Weekblad\" to obey these summons to the letter…Cohen declared after the war that ‘thanks to our efforts no Jew suffered from hunger in occupied Holland.’ That is the case. But thanks to Asscher and Cohen the deportation of the Jews in the Netherlands achieved a greater measure of perfection and efficiency than anywhere else in occupied Europe.”\n\nOf course, such accusations benefit from a hindsight that the leaders of the Jewish Council in The Netherlands did not have. Jacob Presser’s groundbreaking history of the Holocaust in the Netherlands, \"Ondergang\" (lit. \"Destruction\"; published in English as \"The Destruction of Dutch Jews\", or \"Ashes in the Wind: The Destruction of Dutch Jews\"), also criticized Asscher and Cohen, while balancing this with a defense of their good intentions and courageous attempts within the realities of their own perceived situation, to lessen Nazi measures. Presser stated firmly that: \"No one has accused the two Presidents and the Jewish Council\" of being collaborators in the strict sense of being \"corrupt and immoral willing tools\" of the Nazis, much less as partisans for them, as were the Dutch Nazis, Quislings, Petains and Francos, but the accusations after the war rather were about the degree to which they as victims had naively or mistakenly, despite their best efforts to preserve as much as they could, conceded too much to Nazi pressures to collect together and help to transport the Jewish community to unknown destinations in \"the East.\" Presser, acknowledging that they sought to preserve as many as possible of the Jewish community by haggling numbers deported down as far as possible, even adds,\"The Jewish Council played for time. Was that wrong? ... Even the most unselfish people would surely have hesitated to shelter and hide Jews if they had known that their self-sacrifice would drag out over so many long years. And it has been said that had the war in fact ended in 1942 the Jewish community would have built a monument to Asscher and Cohen, as the brave and resourceful leaders by whose hands Dutch Jewry was saved.\"\n\nLeni Yahil, in her \"The Holocaust: The Fate of European Jewry\", writes sympathetically of them: \"While Visser's opposition to cooperation [of any kind whatsoever] with the Germans bespoke a political orientation,\" (he had led a rival Jewish \"Coordination Committee\" that the Nazis had disbanded, which had urged that the Jewish community resist any cooperation with the Nazis and only address itself to the Dutch government, which, according to Yahil \"ignored the fact that the heads of the Dutch administration were now carrying out orders issued by the Germans\"), \"Asscher and especially Cohen invoked the humanitarian principle and believed it was necessary to negotiate with the Germans in order to mitigate the suffering of the Jews through intercession on their behalf. Thus, they essentially held to the approach that had been employed prior to the war to obtain aid for the refugees, except that now they were tending to the Jewish community as a whole.\" \n\nIn 1980, the company that Asscher and his brother had brought to international fame and prominence was awarded the Royal title by Queen Juliana of the Netherlands; it is now known as \"Koninklijke Asscher Diamant Maatschappij\" (Royal Asscher Diamond Company). Abraham’s grandson, Edward Asscher, is the current President of the Company.\nHis great-grandson Lodewijk Asscher is the current Dutch Minister of Social Affairs and Employment.\n"}
{"id": "20290360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20290360", "title": "Active ageing", "text": "Active ageing\n\nActive ageing (active aging in the US) is a concept recently deployed by the European Commission, the World Health Organization, and used also in Human Resource Management. This concept evokes the idea of longer activity, with a higher retirement age and working practices adapted to the age of the employee. It also extends to the social engagement of the elderly in the collectivity.\nEuropeans demography shifts towards an elder population with lower birth rates. This will have repercussions on the European economy as less and less active people will support the social costs of health-care and pension of those who stopped working.\nThe EU-Commission has fixed 2 targets for 2010:\n\nThe concept of active ageing was originally inspired by the work of Robert Havighurst on activity theory, according to which elders' well-being relies on them staying active in later life; from this point of view, staying active is key to successfully ageing.\n\nAt the end of the 20th century organizations such as the OECD and the International Labour Organization used the concept to address the challenges faced by the labour market: lengthening of retirement, maintaining the elderly in employment, etc. In 2002 the World Health Organization (WHO) gave a new twist to the concept by emphasising the prevention of health problems. A number of ICT platforms are in the process of being developed. The concept was then extended to elders being engaged in their communities (e.g. through volunteering) and their family. From this point of view an elder should optimize his or her health in order to benefit his or her own life as much as enrich the collectivity. Critics condemn the normativity of this model as \"successfully\" ageing in which elders have to stay active and be involved in activities recognized as beneficial without taking into account their heterogeneous life courses.\n\n"}
{"id": "49606156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49606156", "title": "Alice Arlen", "text": "Alice Arlen\n\nAlice Arlen (November 6, 1940 – February 29, 2016) was an American screenwriter, best known for \"Silkwood\" (1983), which she wrote with Nora Ephron. Her other film credits include the scripts of \"Alamo Bay\" (1985), \"Cookie\" (1989), \"The Weight of Water\" (2000) and \"Then She Found Me\" (2007).\n\nBorn Alice Reeve to lawyer Jay Frederick Reeve and journalist Josephine Medill Patterson in 1940, Reeve and her brother Joseph later took the surname of Ivan Albright, their mother's second husband. She attended Radcliffe College of Harvard University, from which she graduated in 1962. She also received her MFA degree from the Columbia University School of the Arts in 1981.\n\nReeve married James Hoge, a longtime employee of the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" in her native city after earning her degree and began working for CBS. The couple had three children before their divorce in 1971. She married Michael J. Arlen the following year and later moved to New York where she began studying at the Columbia University School of the Arts in 1979. Arlen met Nora Ephron, with whom she wrote the screenplay for \"Silkwood\" (1983), for which they were nominated for an Oscar for Best Original Screenplay. Arlen worked with director Louis Malle, writing the script for \"Alamo Bay\" (1985). Arlen and Ephron later worked together on \"Cookie\" (1989), which was directed by Susan Seidelman. Later, Arlen also wrote the screenplay for \"The Weight of Water\" (2000), and Helen Hunt's first feature film as director, \"Then She Found Me\" (2007).\n\nArlen died at her home in Manhattan, New York in 2016, at the age of 75.\n"}
{"id": "43185051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43185051", "title": "Anton Norris", "text": "Anton Norris\n\nErskine Anton Norris (born 7 January 1940 in Kirtons, Saint Philip, Barbados) is a former Barbadian high jumper.\n\nNorris first represented Barbados at the 1962 Central American and Caribbean Games in Kingston, Jamaica where he won silver in high jump with a jump of 1.98 metres. Three months later at the 1962 British Empire and Commonwealth Games in Perth, Australia, Norris won bronze in the high jump clearing the bar at . In doing so, he became the first athlete to win a bronze medal for Barbados and the first athlete to win a medal of any colour in a sport besides weightlifting for Barbados at the Commonwealth Games. The following year, Norris was part of the inaugural contingent to represent Barbados at the 1963 Pan American Games in São Paulo, Brazil. There he won one of the first medals for his country, bronze in high jump. In 1966, he repeated his performance of four year prior in taking the silver medal at the San Juan Central American and Caribbean Games in the high jump and the bronze in high jump at the Kingston British Empire and Commonwealth Games.\n\nNorris was also a cricketer who played in one first-class cricket match for Barbados in February 1963 against British Guiana. Norris, selected in the team is a right-arm fast bolwer, took no wickets in the match which British Guiana won by 34 runs.\n\nNorris holds a MBA degree in Management and International Business from New York University Graduate School of Business Administration, and a Bachelor of Arts degree with honours in Economics and Business Administration from the Interamerican University of Puerto Rico.\n\nNorris has worked in business development for most of his career, while a senior executive of the Barbados Investment and Development Corporation, where he served as a Divisional Director and acting CEO. He was also Director of the Corporation's North American Operations, based in New York. He has assisted the promotion, start-up and development of a large number of local and international businesses and successfully implemented several technical assistance initiatives.\n\nAs a consultant, Anton also served as Regional Technical Advisor to the Investment Promotion and Export Development (IPED) Project, in the Economic Affairs Secretariat of the Organisation of Eastern Caribbean States, under the aegis of the United States Agency for International Development (USAID). As of March 2009, Norris was an associate consultant of May Hinds Consulting.\n"}
{"id": "43750361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43750361", "title": "Antonín Koláček", "text": "Antonín Koláček\n\nAntonín Koláček (7 August 1959, Kroměříž) is a former Czech manager and entrepreneur. In 2008 he sold his shares in his companies and became an advocate and practitioner of buddhism. He was involved in the voucher privatization of Mostecká uhelná společnost (now Czech Coal); later he became its CEO.\n\nAfter his studies at the Institute of Chemical Technology in Prague, he worked as a personalist for a Prague chocolate factory (1983-1990) and since 1990 for Komerční banka. Between 1993 and 1997 he was also a member of the supervisory board (non-executive) of Komerční banka.\n\nIn 1994, he founded (together with Petr Kraus) Newton Financial Management Group, a company that focused on trading on financial markets and related advisory services. In 1995, he became a member of the board of directors (executive board) of Mostecká uhelná společnost as the chief personalist of Komerční banka, which hold shares of Mostecká uhelná společnost (MUS). He became the most influential manager of MUS, and the CEO of Appian Group, which took control over MUS in 1998. In 2005 he bought 40% share of Appian Group (Luboš Měkota obtained another 40%); both their shares were bought in 2005/2006 by Pavel Tykač.\n\nFor more than a decade, Czech police has been investigating him in relation with MUS and Appian Group. In Switzerland he was accused together with his former partners Jiří Diviš, Petr Kraus, Marek Čmejla and Jacques de Groote, and in 2013 he was sentenced for fraud, money laundering and other crimes in connection with MUS and Appian Group to 52 months in jail. An appeal is being prepared.\n\nFrom 1999 to 2004 he acted as the CEO of the newly created University of Finance and Administration.\n\nIn 2006 he founded MAITREA, a center for spiritual and personal development in Říčany. In 2008 he sold his shares in his companies and became and advocate and practitioner of buddhism.\n\n"}
{"id": "37754117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37754117", "title": "Associated Whistleblowing Press", "text": "Associated Whistleblowing Press\n\nThe Associated Whistleblowing Press (AWP) is a not-for-profit information agency based in Brussels, Belgium, dedicated to the defense of human rights by promoting transparency, freedom of information and speech, whistleblowing and investigative journalism, conceived as a global network made up of cooperative local platforms and actors. According to its website, the initiative aims to work in a decentralized network structure, with local platforms that deal with local information, contexts and actors in a \"from the roots upward model\". The stories produced will then be published on the project's multilanguage newsroom under a Creative Commons license.\nThe team consists of collaborators spread all around the world, led by two editors, Pedro Noel and Santiago Carrion.\n\nIn a strategy to amplify the social effect of dennouncing on crimes and corruption, the Associated Whistleblowing Press is building whistleblowing platforms oriented to different communities as well as precise issues or problematic subjects, establishing networks with local and international media and civil society organizations.\nThe platforms created to precise contexts are intended to achieve specific goals in transparency, publishing restricted or censored material of political, scientific, ethical, diplomatic or historical significance. Rumor, opinion, stories and other kinds of first hand accounts or material that is publicly available elsewhere will not be accepted. Materials which violate individual privacy will not be accepted unless they speak up on violations and abuses that affect the public sphere.\n\nOn September 30, 2012, the AWP launched Ljost, its first local whistleblowing platform in Reykjavík, Iceland. Internet pioneer Guðmundur Ragnar Guðmundsson, Birgitta Jónsdóttir, a member of parliament of Althing, the Icelandic parliament, representing the Pirate Party Iceland and investigative journalist Jon Bjarki have all collaborated with the creation of the platform.\nLjost.is a website which allows Icelandic citizens to send information proving abuse or corruption in a safe and anonymous way. The platform is a network of journalists, researchers and media agencies dedicated to analyzing and publishing leaked content to make governments and corporations accountable for their actions by bringing them into light.\nAccording to the Associated Whistleblowing Press, the main objective moving Ljost platform is to restore the media as an active player for truth and justice in Iceland, believing transparency as the best way to increase social accountability of local governments and corporations for their actions. AWP members believe that for journalists, researchers and media activists, this is a powerful way to lead people to take action against repression, abuse of power, censorship, social inequality and corporate greed in Icelandic society.\nOn December 30, 2013, Ljost published the Glitnir Files, a leak that brings into public account detailed information identifying Glitnir bank’s biggest borrowers and stakeholders as well as relevant track of some its shares movements during 2007/2008 and evidence that a handful of individuals and companies with strong connections to Glitnir's central shareholders borrowed large amounts of cash from the bank, often with insufficient underlying collateral.\n\nOn April 23, 2014, the AWP launched Filtrala, its first local whistleblowing platform in Spain.\nThe name of the project literally means “leak it”. It was launched in collaboration with four Spanish media organizations – La Marea, eldiario.es, Diagonal, Mongolia –, two Catalan media organizations – Crític, La Directa – along with the Comisión Anticorrupcíon de la Red Ciudadana Partido X.\nIt was created to serve Spanish society in a way that anyone can send safe and anonymous information that denounces crimes, corruption, abuse and infraction from individuals, corporations or institutions. It is part of the international network of AWP and it is settled in Belgium for its recognition in law ensurement of press freedom, informants protection and journalism protection.\nThe main objective is to amplify revealed information in a mediatic, civil and legal level. Through the Platform the Spanish society has a citizen mechanism to fight against corruption and abuse with the aim of a social regeneration based mainly in social justice.\n\nAWP uses GlobaLeaks software to manage on-line submissions of sensitive materials and obligates its users to use the Tor anonymity system through a 'tor hidden service only' platform. (Furthermore, AWP is a member of torservers.net, a network of nonprofits which specializes in the general establishment of Tor exit nodes via workshops and donations.) Each node is in charge of managing a virtual dropbox, analyzing any information received, transforming it into news stories and coordinating within a local and international network of media and organizations before publication.\n\nThe analysis of all submissions consists of two main steps. First of all a thorough investigation will be done into what are normally very large files in variable formats (such as emails or internal memos) in order to locate relevant information. This information will later be put into context, explaining actors, motives and consequences in relation to the organizations or people in question.\nWhen publishing the results as news, the AWP will work closely with as many trustworthy media partners and activists as they can in order to reach the largest audience possible. The dissemination process will also be amplified thanks to the Internet and social media.\n\n"}
{"id": "7441395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7441395", "title": "Bob Hogue", "text": "Bob Hogue\n\nRobert Charles Hogue (born September 7, 1953) is an American athletic conference commissioner, author and columnist, sportscaster, and a former Republican member of the Hawaii State Senate representing the 24th district (Kailua-Kaneohe) for six years (2000–2006). He was the Republican nominee for U.S. Congress in Hawaii's 2nd congressional district, to replace Ed Case, but lost in the 2006 general election to former Lieutenant Governor Mazie Hirono. Hogue is currently the commissioner of the Pacific West Conference, a position he has held since 2007.\n\nHogue was born on September 7, 1953 in Whittier, California. He graduated from the University of Southern California in 1975 where he played baseball and earned a degree in business with an emphasis in accounting. He earned his CPA certificate working for Price Waterhouse & Co. in southern California from 1975 to 1977.\n\nHogue was the lead sportscaster with three #1-rated news stations: KWWL-TV in Waterloo, Iowa and the Iowa Television Network (1979–1984), KCRA-TV in Sacramento, California (1984–1988), and KHON-TV in Honolulu, Hawaii (1988–1999). Previously, he worked at KTIV in Sioux City, Iowa, KFBB-TV in Great Falls, Montana, and radio stations in Honolulu, HI, Sacramento, CA, and Prescott, AZ. He was the play-by-play announcer for University of Iowa basketball on television in the 1980s and University of Hawaii football and basketball on radio in the 1990s, and then Hawaii Pacific University basketball on radio and television in the 2000s.\n\nHogue was the head boys' basketball coach at Academy of the Pacific in Honolulu from 2004 to 2006 after earlier serving as head girls' basketball coach at St. Anthony's and Trinity Christian in Kailua. In 2007, he was named the commissioner of the Pacific West Conference, which is now the largest NCAA Division II conference in the west. In 2013, he was named to the DII Management Council and DII Membership Committee, serving a full year term on each committee until 2017. He currently chairs the Sports Administration committee for the DII Conference Commissioners Association.\n\nHogue formerly served with Wayne Coito as host of \"PacWest Magazine\" television on OC-16 and www.thepacwest.com. Since 1988, he has written a weekly sports and recreation column, called \"Keeping Score\", for \"MidWeek\" magazine. He is a frequent contributor to other magazine publications. His first novel, \"Sands of Lanikai\", published by Island Heritage, was released in late 2009. It is a historical fiction, mystery, and romance set in Kailua, Oahu around the time of the Attack on Pearl Harbor. \"Sands of Lanikai\" was #1 on \"The Honolulu Advertiser\" bestseller list on November 29, 2009 and remained on the \"Advertiser\" bestseller list for the next several months. The novel was later nominated for a Po'okela Award for excellence in literature.\n\n"}
{"id": "7900596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7900596", "title": "Bob Tweedy", "text": "Bob Tweedy\n\nBob Tweedy is an Irish Businessman. He once owned 80% of the bars and nightclubs in Waterford City, Ireland.\n\nThe Tweedy group was insolvent and went into examinership on the 29 October 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "1168160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1168160", "title": "Charles Schwab Corporation", "text": "Charles Schwab Corporation\n\nThe Charles Schwab Corporation is a bank and brokerage firm, based in San Francisco, California. It was founded in 1971 by Charles R. Schwab and is one of the largest banks in the United States as well as one of the largest brokerage firms in the United States. The company provides services for individuals and institutions that are investing online. The company offers an electronic trading platform for the purchase and sale of financial securities including common stocks, preferred stocks, futures contracts, exchange-traded funds, options, mutual funds, and fixed income investments. It also provides margin lending, and cash management services, as well as services through registered investment advisers.\n\nSchwab operates in four main divisions: investing, wealth management, banking, and trading. As of December 31, 2017, the company had 10.755 million active client brokerage accounts, with $3.362 trillion in assets. The company operated 345 branches in 46 states, as well as a branch in each of Puerto Rico and London.\n\nIn 1963, Charles R. Schwab and two other partners launched \"Investment Indicator\", an investment newsletter. At its height, the newsletter had 3,000 subscribers, each paying $84 a year to subscribe. In April 1971, the firm was incorporated in California as First Commander Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of Commander Industries, Inc., for traditional brokerage services and to publish the Schwab investment newsletter. In November of that year, Schwab and four others purchased all the stock from Commander Industries, Inc., and in 1972, Schwab bought all the stock from what was once Commander Industries. In 1973, the company name changed to Charles Schwab & Co., Inc.\n\nIn 1975, the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission allowed for negotiated commission rates and Schwab set up a discount brokerage. In September 1975, Schwab opened its first branch in Sacramento, CA, and started offering discount brokerage services. In 1977, Schwab began offering seminars to clients, and by 1978, Schwab had 45,000 client accounts total, doubling to 84,000 in 1979. In 1980, Schwab established the industry's first 24-hour quotation service, and the total of client accounts grew to 147,000. In 1981, Schwab became a member of the NYSE, and the total of client accounts grew to 222,000. In 1982, Schwab became the first to offer 24/7 order entry and quote service, its first international office was opened in Hong Kong, and the number of client accounts totaled 374,000.\n\nIn 1983, Stephen McLin purchased the company for Bank of America for $55 million. In 1984, the company launched 140 no-load mutual funds. In 1987, management, including Charles R. Schwab, bought the company from Bank of America for $280 million.\n\nIn 1991, the company acquired Mayer & Scweitzer, a market making firm, allowing Schwab to execute its customers' orders without sending them to an exchange. In 1997, it was fined $200,000 for failing to arrange the best trades for its customers. The unit was renamed Schwab Capital Markets in 2000.\n\nIn 1993, the company opened an office in London.\n\nIn 1995, the company acquired The Hampton Company, founded by Walter W. Bettinger, who became CEO of Schwab in 2008.\n\nIn 2000, Schwab purchased U.S. Trust for $2.73 billion. In 2001, less than a year after the acquisition of U.S. Trust, the U.S. Trust subsidiary was fined $10 million in a bank secrecy law case. It was ordered to pay $5 million to the New York State Banking Department and $5 million to the Federal Reserve Board. On November 20, 2006, Schwab announced an agreement to sell U.S. Trust to Bank of America for $3.3 billion in cash. The deal closed in the second quarter of 2007.\n\nIn November 2003, Schwab announced the $345 million acquisition of SoundView Technology Group to add equity research capabilities.\n\nDavid S. Pottruck, who had spent the majority of his 20 years at the brokerage as Charles R. Schwab's right-hand man, shared the CEO title with the company's founder from 1998 to 2003. In May 2003, Mr. Schwab stepped down, and gave Pottruck sole control as CEO. On July 24, 2004, the company's board fired Pottruck, replacing him with its founder and namesake. News of Pottruck's removal came as the firm had announced that overall profit had dropped 10%, to $113 million, for the second quarter, driven largely by a 26% decline in revenue from customer stock trading.\n\nAfter coming back into control, Mr. Schwab conceded that the company had \"lost touch with our heritage\", and quickly refocused the business on providing financial advice to individual investors. He also rolled back Pottruck's fee hikes. The company rebounded, and earnings began to turn around in 2005, as did the stock. The share price was up as high as 151% since Pottruck's removal, ten times since the return of Charles Schwab. The company's net transfer assets, or assets that come from other firms, quadrupled from 2004 to 2008.\n\n\nThis fund was named as one of the decade's top ten fund disasters for the 2000s. \"In written materials and in conversations with customers, some Schwab representatives omitted or provided incomplete or inaccurate material information relating to the fund's characteristics, risk and diversification, and continued to represent YieldPlus as a relatively low-risk alternative to money market funds and other cash alternative investments that had minimal fluctuations in net asset value (NAV). Between Sept. 1, 2006, and Feb. 29, 2008, Schwab sold over $13.75 billion in shares of YieldPlus to customers, which accounted for approximately 98 percent of the amount Schwab customers invested in ultra short-term bond funds. During this time period, Schwab's solicited sales of YieldPlus totaled approximately $3.36 billion, approximately 40 percent of which were to customers 65 years of age or older. Schwab collected approximately $17.5 million in fees from sales of the fund.\"\n\nFrom June 2007 through June 2008, the total return on Schwab's YieldPlus fund was -31.7% when other ultra short bond funds had little or no losses. These large losses occurred because Schwab's YieldPlus fund was not an ultra short bond fund as claimed by Schwab. It was instead an ultra long bond fund. YieldPlus held large amounts of securities backed by illiquid, long-term, private label mortgages. It also held long maturity corporate bonds and trust preferred securities. In doing so, Schwab's fund violated concentration and illiquidity limits stated in its prospectus and had much more credit and liquidity risk than it disclosed in its SEC filings and marketing materials. YieldPlus' long term securities including private label mortgage backed securities gave it a slight advantage over its peers prior to 2007. Unfortunately, the extra yield was an order of magnitude smaller than the losses that followed when credit and liquidity spreads widened and the value of its long term holdings dropped significantly in 2007 and 2008. \nYieldPlus's heaviest reported losses occurred in early 2008, yet Schwab still appears to have understated these losses by significantly inflating the value of the fund's holdings and therefore its NAV ...The YieldPlus fund made large, risky investments in long maturity structured products, such as subprime Residential Mortgage Backed Securities (\"RMBS\") that were inconsistent with the SEC's definition of an ultra short bond fund. Schwab marketed the fund as a cash equivalent investment and as a safe alternative to money market funds with a higher yield and only slightly more risk. Such a claim would be incorrect for a typical, conventionally managed ultra short bond fund, but was especially false when made by Schwab on behalf of the YieldPlus fund. In its marketing materials, Schwab compared returns on the YieldPlus fund to returns on the Lehman Short U.S. Treasury 9-12 month index. The Treasury securities included in the Lehman index have no credit risk, are highly liquid and have short maturities. The holdings of the YieldPlus fund generally shared none of these attributes.\n\nYieldPlus had $1.1 billion of investor losses, including losses by the founder himself. Schwab closed the YieldPlus funds in 2011.\n\nIn 2007, the company acquired The 401(k) Company. On July 22 of the following year, Walter W. Bettinger, the previous chief operating officer, was named chief executive, succeeding the company's namesake. Charles R. Schwab remained executive chairman of the company and said in a statement that he would \"continue to serve as a very active chairman.\"\n\nIn 2011, the company acquired OptionsXpress. The company also acquired Compliance11, Inc., a provider of compliance software. In 2012, it expanded again by acquiring ThomasPartners, an asset management firm.\n\nFor the fiscal year 2017, The Charles Schwab Corporation reported earnings of US$2.180 billion, with an annual revenue of US$8.618 billion, an increase of 15.2% over the previous fiscal cycle. Charles Schwab's shares traded at over $42 per share, and its market capitalization was valued at over US$62.9 billion in November 2018.\nIn 2004, Charles Schwab chose Havas Worldwide (then called Euro RSCG) as its full-service advertising agency. In February 2013, Schwab hired Crispin Porter + Bogusky (CP+B) as its lead creative agency with Havas Worldwide remaining to create ads for ActiveTrader and optionsXpress. In March 2015, Adweek reported on marketing material created by CP+B for Schwab's Intelligent Portfolio service.\n\nStarting in 2005, the company launched a series of television ads featuring the slogan \"Talk to Chuck\" by Euro RSCG and directed/animated by Bob Sabiston's Flat Black Films. \"Talk to Chuck\" ads appeared in print media, online, billboards, and branch offices. A blog post in The Wall Street Journal described the ads as effective because they included a single memorable phrase.\n\nIn 2013, the company launched an advertising campaign with the slogan \"Own Your Tomorrow\".\n\nSchwab Charitable Fund is a donor advised fund which preserves the anonymity of donors by not disclosing individual donor names. Professionally-managed accounts are only available through independent investment advisors working with Schwab Advisor Services, a business segment of The Charles Schwab Corporation. It accepts contributions of real estate, private equity or other non-cash assets via a charitable intermediary, with proceeds of the donation transferred to a donor-advised account upon liquidation. This intermediary considers donations on a case-by-case basis, with a typical requirement that assets be valued at $250,000 or more.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10214818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10214818", "title": "Chief human resources officer", "text": "Chief human resources officer\n\nA chief human resources officer (CHRO) is a corporate officer who oversees all aspects of human resource management and industrial relations policies, practices and operations for an organization. Similar job titles include: \"chief people officer\", \"chief personnel officer\", \"executive vice president of human resources\" and \"senior vice president of human resources\". Roles and responsibilities of a typical CHRO can be categorized as follows: workforce strategist, organizational and performance conductor, HR service delivery owner, compliance and governance regulator, and coach and adviser to the senior leadership team and the board of directors. CHROs may also be involved in board member selection and orientation, executive compensation, and succession planning. In addition, functions such as communications, facilities, public relations and related areas may fall within the scope of the CHRO role. Increasingly, CHROs report directly to chief executive officers and are members of the most senior-level committees of a company (e.g., executive committee or office of the CEO).\n\nThe role of the CHRO has evolved rapidly to meet the human capital needs of organizations operating across multiple regulatory and labor environments. Whereas CHROs once focused on organizations human resources in just one or two countries, today many oversee complex networks of employees on more than one continent and implement workforce development strategies on a global scale. CHROs are especially important now in helping companies navigate the workforce issues associated with expanding into emerging markets, and in developing labor policies to suit different regions of the world while preserving a company’s core culture.\n\nThe strategic role of the CHRO has also expanded as workforces are increasingly composed of knowledge workers, and companies require better systems to compete for scarce high-skilled workers. Rather than focusing exclusively on human resource issues and service delivery, CHROs must concentrate on creating strong talent pipelines to both enhance organizational decision-making and secure future growth. These changes in the business landscape have required the CHRO to heighten the focus on talent, capabilities and company culture.\n\nAccording to an annual survey conducted by the largest industry group for CHROs, the HR Policy Association in the United States, top CHRO concerns over the years fall roughly into three broad categories: talent, capabilities, and culture.\n\nTalent management includes building the quality and depth of talent, including a focus on succession and leadership/employee development. In a separate survey of over 200 U.S. and European CHROs, University of South Carolina professor Patrick Wright found that nearly all participants cited 'talent' as the top priority on their CEO's agenda for HR.\n\nManaging corporate capabilities includes dealing with rapid changes in technology, globalization, and the increasingly complex external context of government regulations and public policy (impacting union and employee relations, executive compensation, health care, retirement programs, health and safety, etc.).\n\nThe key capabilities required are expected to vary by company based on business strategy and the competitive global environment. Adapting to new technologies and sources of information and communications are essential to success for all companies. Other capabilities the HR function must help the company develop include: managing the external context, managing a multi-generational workforce, adapting to change, and operating effectively in different cultures and business structures.\n\nCultural issues include organizational change, agility, social networking, ethics and values, innovation, customer focus, employee engagement, diversity and inclusiveness, and multiculturalism.\n\nThe human resources function has a leadership role in helping shape the culture of the company. Ensuring that the values of the company are communicated and understood at all levels, providing clarity as to the expected behavior of all employees and the development of a high performance culture are important aspects of the CHRO role. When an employee’s behavior is inconsistent with the values of the company, the human resources function is responsible for ensuring that such situations are dealt with fairly. The HR function also helps the organization establish and maintain high levels of employee engagement and commitment.\n\nIncreasingly, companies are relying on external partners, joint-ventures, as well as merged and acquired companies as sources of innovation, capabilities and growth. Establishing a culture that is supportive of such external partnerships is an area where the HR function plays an important role.\n\nSummarizing the findings of a recent study of HR leaders, Randy MacDonald, former CHRO for IBM, indicated that the three key workforce gaps CHROs cite as the biggest opportunities for HR are: \n\nThe CHRO is the top HR position, but those who attain this role arrive there by working in a variety of functions both within the HR function and other functional and leadership roles both inside their company and across industries and employers. In a 2011 survey of top HR leaders, roughly two-thirds of CHROs indicated they worked outside HR at some time in their career. There is also significant movement between companies with only 36% of US CHROs gaining their position through internal promotion. In terms of HR experience, one survey indicated that the most common area of functional experience for CHROs is talent management; the next most common experience is compensation and benefits, followed by organizational culture. Current CHROs have had broader functional experience in HR than their predecessors and are less likely to have had experience in labor relations than past CHROs.\n\nTwo recently published books about the CHRO profession, \"The Talent Masters: Why Smart Leaders Put People Before Numbers\", by Bill Conaty and Ram Charan; and \"The Chief Human Resource Officer, Defining the Role of Human Resource Leaders\" by Pat Wright, offer insights into the profession from its leading practitioners.\n\nThe perennial top priority for CHROs is talent management. In \"The Chief Human Resource Officer, Defining the Role of Human Resource Leaders\", Eva Sage-Gavin, former CHRO for the Gap emphasizes this point saying, \"... at the end of the day, you and your team are the experts at talent management and must be able to understand and identify good versus great talent… Identifying critical positions, the great attributes needed to fill them, and prioritizing recruiting strategies accordingly was the key to success, whether I was working with engineers, apparel designers, or international operations management.\" Kevin Cox, CHRO for American Express, argues that \"Great CHROs (and great CEOs) understand that talent needs to be developed in thoughtful, but not incremental, ways. Getting the balance right between ‘stretch’ and ‘in over her head’ isn’t easy, but it is vital to the success of a world-class talent strategy.\"\n\nThe CHRO helps the company build sustainable competitive advantage through the selection and development of top talent that possess capabilities that help differentiate the company from its competitors. Conaty and Charan emphasize this point in \"Talent Masters\" by noting that “Only one competency lasts. It is the ability to create a steady, self-renewing stream of leaders. Money is just a commodity. Talent supplies the edge. We can’t put it any better than Ron Nersesian, the head of Agilent Technologies’ Electronic Measurement Group: ‘Developing people’s talent is the whole of the company at the end of the day. Our products all are time- perishable. The only thing that stays is the institutional learning and the development of the skills and the capabilities that we have in our people.’”\n\nOther leading CHROs emphasize additional aspects of HR leadership, such as delivering results with a global team – a major challenge identified by Hugh Mitchell, CHRO for Royal Dutch Shell – and developing and communicating an employee value proposition that will differentiate the company in its efforts to attract and retain the caliber of talent needed to achieve its business objectives, as emphasized by Michael Davis, former CHRO for General Mills.\n"}
{"id": "3816650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3816650", "title": "Commercial use of space", "text": "Commercial use of space\n\nCommercial use of space is the provision of goods or services of commercial value by using equipment sent into Earth orbit or outer space. Examples of the commercial use of space include satellite navigation, satellite television and commercial satellite imagery. Operators of such services typically contract the manufacturing of satellites and their launch to private or public companies, which form an integral part of the space economy. Some commercial ventures have long-terms plans to exploit natural resources originating outside Earth, for example asteroid mining. Space tourism, currently an exceptional activity, could also be an area of future growth, as new businesses strive to reduce the costs and risks of human spaceflight.\n\nThe first commercial use of outer space occurred in 1962, when the Telstar 1 satellite was launched to transmit television signals over the Atlantic Ocean. By 2004, global investment in all space sectors was estimated to be $50.8 billion.\nAs of 2010, 31% of all space launches were commercial.\n\nThe first commercial use of satellites may have been the Telstar 1 satellite, launched in 1962, which was the first privately sponsored space launch, funded by AT&T and Bell Telephone Laboratories. Telstar 1 was capable of relaying television signals across the Atlantic Ocean, and was the first satellite to transmit live television, telephone, fax, and other data signals. Two years later, the Hughes Aircraft Company developed the Syncom 3 satellite, a geosynchronous communications satellite, leased to the Department of Defense. Commercial possibilities of satellites were further realized when the Syncom 3, orbiting near the International Date Line, was used to telecast the 1964 Olympic Games from Tokyo to the United States.\n\nBetween 1960 and 1966, NASA launched a series of early weather satellites known as Television Infrared Observation Satellites (TIROS). These satellites greatly advanced meteorology worldwide, as satellite imagery was used for better forecasting, for both public and commercial interests.\n\nOn April 6, 1965, the Hughes Aircraft Company placed the Intelsat I communications satellite geosynchronous orbit over the Atlantic Ocean. Intelsat I was built for the Communications Satellite Corporation (COMSAT), and demonstrated that satellite-based communication was commercially feasible. Intelsat I allowed for near-instantaneous contact between Europe and North America by handling television, telephone and fax transmissions. Two years later, the Soviet Union launched the Orbita satellite, which provided television signals across Russia, and started the first national satellite television network. Similarly, the 1972 Anik A satellite, launched by Telesat Canada, allowed the Canadian Broadcasting Corporation to reach northern Canada for the first time.\n\nBeginning in 1997, Iridium Communications began launching a series of satellites known as the Iridium satellite constellation, which provided the first satellites for direct satellite telephone service.\n\nThe commercial space transportation industry derives the bulk of its revenue from the launching of satellites into the Earth’s orbit. Commercial launch providers typically place private and government satellites into low Earth orbit (LEO) and geosynchronous Earth orbit (GEO). In 2002, commercial space transportation generated 6.6 billion dollars, which made up 6% of the total gross of commercial space activities.\n\nThe Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) has licensed four commercial spaceports in the United States: the Virginia Space Flight Center/Wallops Flight Facility, Kodiak Launch Complex, Spaceport Florida/Kennedy Space Center/Cape Canaveral Air Force Station, and the California Spaceport/Vandenberg AFB. Launch sites within Russia and China have added to the global commercial launch capacity. The Delta IV and Atlas V family of launch vehicles are made available for commercial ventures for the United States, while Russia promotes eight families of vehicles. The three largest Russian systems are the Proton, Soyuz, and Zenit.\n\nBetween 1996 and 2002, 245 launches were made for commercial ventures while government (non-classified) launches only total 167 for the same period. Commercial space flight has spurred investment into the development of an efficient reusable launch vehicle (RLV) which can place larger payloads into orbit. Several companies such as SpaceX and Blue Origin are currently developing new RLV designs.\n\nIn the United States, Office of Commercial Space Transportation (generally referred to as FAA/AST or simply AST) is the branch of Federal Aviation Administration (FAA) that approves any commercial rocket launch operations—that is, any launches that are not classified as model, amateur, or \"by and for the government.\"\n\nCommercial satellite manufacturing is defined by the United States government as satellites manufactured for civilian, government, or non-profit use. Not included are satellites constructed for military use, nor for activities associated with any human space flight program. Between the years of 1996 and 2002, satellite manufacturing within the United States experienced an annual growth of 11 percent. The rest of the world experienced higher growth levels of around 13 percent.\n\nOperating satellites communicate via receivers and transmitters on Earth. The manufacturing of satellite ground station communication terminals (including VSATs), mobile satellite telephones, and home television receivers are a part of the ground equipment manufacturing sector. This sector grew through the latter half of the 1990s as it manufactured equipment for the satellite services sector. Between the years of 1996 and 2002 this industry saw a 14 percent annual increase.\n\nBusinesses that operate satellites often lease or sell access to their satellites to data relay and telecommunication firms. This service is often referred to as transponder leasing. Between 1996 and 2002, this industry experienced a 15 percent annual growth. The United States accounts for about 32 percent of the world’s transponder market.\n\nIn 1994, DirecTV debuted direct broadcast satellite by introducing a signal receiving dish 18inches in diameter. In 1996, Astro started in Malaysia with the launch of the MEASAT satellite. In November 1999, the Satellite Home Viewer Improvement Act became law, and local stations were then made available in satellite channel packages, fueling the industry’s growth in the years that followed. By the end of 2000, DTH subscriptions totaled over 67 million.\n\nSatellite radio was pioneered by XM Satellite Radio and Sirius Satellite Radio. XM’s first satellite was launched on March 18, 2001 and its second on May 8, 2001. Its first broadcast occurred on September 25, 2001, nearly four months before Sirius. Sirius launched the initial phase of its service in four cities on February 14, 2002, expanding to the rest of the contiguous United States on July 1, 2002. The two companies spent over $3 billion combined to develop satellite radio technology, build and launch the satellites, and for various other business expenses.\n\nSeveral operators of Earth observation satellites, such as GeoEye and Spot Image, provide images commercially.\n\nA satellite navigation system is a system of satellites that provide autonomous geo-spatial positioning with global coverage. It allows small electronic receivers to determine their location (longitude, latitude, and altitude/elevation) to high precision (within a few metres) using time signals transmitted along a line of sight by radio from satellites. The signals also allow the electronic receivers to calculate the current local time to high precision, which allows time synchronisation. A satellite navigation system with global coverage may be termed a global navigation satellite system (GNSS).\n\nSpace tourism is space travel by individuals for the purpose of personal pleasure. The space tourism industry is being targeted by spaceports in numerous locations, including the Mojave Air and Space Port in California, the Clinton-Sherman Industrial Airpark near Burns Flat, Oklahoma Spaceport America in Sierra County, New Mexico, the Mid-Atlantic Regional Spaceport on the Delmarva Peninsula in Virginia, the Kodiak Launch Complex on Kodiak Island, Alaska, and the Esrange Space Center in Kiruna, Sweden.\n\nCommercial recovery of space resources is the exploitation of raw materials from asteroids, comets and other space objects, including near-Earth objects. Minerals and volatiles could be mined then used in space for in-situ utilization (e.g. construction materials and rocket propellant) or taken back to Earth. These include gold, iridium, silver, osmium, palladium, platinum, rhenium, rhodium, ruthenium and tungsten for transport back to Earth; iron, cobalt, manganese, molybdenum, nickel, aluminium, and titanium for construction; water and oxygen to sustain astronauts; as well as hydrogen, ammonia, and oxygen for use as rocket propellant.\n\nThere are several commercial enterprises working in this field, including Planetary Resources and Deep Space Industries.\n\nBeyond the many technological factors that could make space commercialization more widespread, it has been suggested that the lack of private property, the difficulty or inability of individuals in establishing property rights in space, has been an impediment to the development of space for both human habitation and commercial development.\n\nSince the advent of space technology in the latter half of the twentieth century, the ownership of property in space has been murky, with strong arguments both for and against. In particular, the making of national territorial claims in outer space and on celestial bodies has been specifically proscribed by the Outer Space Treaty, which had been, , ratified by all spacefaring nations.\n\nIn November 25, 2015 President Obama signed the U.S. Commercial Space Launch Competitiveness Act (H.R. 2262) into law. The law recognizes the right of U.S. citizens to own space resources they obtain and encourages the commercial exploration and utilization of resources from asteroids. According to the article § 51303 of the law:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46412937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46412937", "title": "Conference of Montreal", "text": "Conference of Montreal\n\nThe Conference of Montreal is an annual economic event organized by the International Economic Forum of the Americas (IEFA) since 1995.\n\nThe Conference of Montreal is a not-for-profit organization engaged to heightening knowledge and awareness of the issues concerning economic globalization, with a particular emphasis on the relations between the Americas and other continents.\n\nThe Conference works to foster exchanges of information and to promote free discussion on major current economic issues. It also facilitates meetings between world leaders to encourage international discourse by bringing together heads of state, the private sector, international organizations and civil society.\n\nThe Conference brings together 200 speakers and more than 4,200 people from across the globe every year.\n\nThe Conference of Montreal was founded in 1995, by Gil Rémillard, at a time when the globalization of the economies was beginning to emerge at an increased rate.\n\nWith the fall of communism, the success of the \"Uruguay round\" in 1989, the creation of the World Trade Organization (WTO) in 1994 and the beginnings of North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), the world was ready to construct a global market that would benefit to every countries. A desire emerged to create an independent international forum in Montreal, to identify and discuss the impact of all these developments on the global economic system. A first conference was organized on June 20–22, 1995.\n\nThe IEFA now hosts four annual events: the Conference of Montreal, the Toronto Global Forum (founded in 2007), the World Strategic Forum, held in Miami (founded in 2011), as well as the Conference of Paris (founded in 2017).\n\nIn June 2018, the Conference of Montreal will celebrate its 25th Anniversary edition under the theme \"\"Embracing Change\",\" and will reiterate its position among the most important international economic forums, connecting world leaders for twenty-five years.\n\nPaul Desmarais, Jr., Chairman and Co-Chief Executive Officer, Power Corporation of Canada (PCC)\n\nGil Rémillard\n\nCurrent members of the board of governors of the Conference of Montreal are:\nDuarte M. Miranda\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33266120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33266120", "title": "Contract Law of Saudi Arabia", "text": "Contract Law of Saudi Arabia\n\nContract law in Saudi Arabia is governed by the conservative Hanbali school of Sharia Law, which adopts a fundamentalist and literal interpretation of the Quran. Any contract that is not specifically prohibited under Sharia law is legally binding, with no discrimination against foreigners or non-Muslims.\n\nThe Hanbali school is the most liberal among the four Sunni schools with respect to the freedom of persons to contract. However, the degree of freedom of contract is governed by the prohibitions in the Quran, and two distinctive doctrines in Sharia law: \"riba\" (usury) and \"gharar\" (speculation).\n\nUnlike other Sharia law jurisdictions, Sharia law remains uncodified in Saudi Arabia due to the strong literalist view of the Hanbali school. There is also no established case reporting in the courts. This has led to much uncertainty and variation in court decisions. Despite being the world's 11th easiest economy to do business in, Saudi Arabia ranks 140th out of 183 economies in terms of enforcement of contracts. (see below: Appendix)\n\nIn 2007, King Abdullah initiated legal reforms to modernise the courts and codify Sharia law in Saudi Arabia. The ulama, the religious body, approved a codification of Sharia law in 2010, and a sourcebook of legal principles and precedents was published on January 3, 2018. (see below: Legal Reform)\n\nSaudi Arabia is principally governed by Sharia Law, with royal decrees playing a complementary role.\n\nThe Hanbali school of law acknowledges the following sources of law:\nBoth \"ijmas\" and \"qiyas\" constitute \"fiqh\", Islamic jurisprudence based upon scholar opinions amassed over the years.\n\nOrdinances (\"nizam\"), consisting of royal decrees which address modern legal issues and bureaucratic matters, is another source of law. These royal decrees by the King supplement \"fiqh\". Royal decrees are considered subordinate to Sharia law as only religious law is considered \"law\" under Sharia law. The courts will apply \"fiqh\" over \"nizam\" if the legal issue is already considered in Sharia law, or if \"nizam\" conflicts with Sharia law.\n\nOther forms of regulations (\"lai'hah\") including Royal Orders, Council of Ministers Resolutions, Ministerial Resolutions and, Ministerial Circulars, are likewise subordinate to Sharia law. While contract law is generally governed under Sharia law, many areas of modern business and commercial activities are not considered under Sharia law and are hence governed by the applicable regulations.\n\nSaudi Arabia also abides by international treaties, which are approved by royal decree. One such example is Royal Decree No.11, dated 16 Rajab 1414, corresponding to 30 December 1993, which declared Saudi Arabia's ascension to the New York Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards.\n\nA contract of sale (\"bay’\") can be concluded for the exchange of anything regarded as a commodity or property (\"mal\"). However, there are certain things that are not included as \"mal\" under Sharia and therefore cannot be the subject of a sale. These include: pigs, alcohol, and animals not ritually slaughtered. In accordance to the Quran, there are two exceptions to contract formation: the taking of interest (\"riba\"), and the use of speculative contracts.\n\nThe rules on conclusion of the contract of sale are stricter than the rules in most modern legal systems. Conclusion of the contract must take place at the same transaction as offer and acceptance. Furthermore, there is a right of withdrawal of the offer even after acceptance.\n\nAt common law, auctions, advertisements, displays of goods on shelves, tenders and the like are treated as mere invitations to create an offer. In contrast, Sharia law recognises these as valid offers (\"Ijab\") which, upon being accepted (\"Qabul\"), will become binding by law upon the parties involved in the transaction.\n\nGenerally, a statement with the description and price of goods constitutes an offer, and a display of goods with the price similarly is an offer. However, advertisers can specify that the advertisement is only an invitation to treat.\n\nLike the common law, offer and acceptance are among the vital ingredients of a contract in Islamic law. An offer is a proposal, which leads to an agreement when there is an acceptance of the offer. If there is an acceptance, the offeror is bound by law to perform his promise. The offeror has no right to revoke his offer after its acceptance and he must be prepared to complete his promised accordingly.\n\nA statement of an offer has to be made in the past tense (\"Sighatul-Madhi\") to be constituted as a valid offer in Sharia law. Making the statement in past tense signifies the seller's intention of making a valid offer which is capable of being accepted by the buyer. Once the offer has been accepted, the seller has no right to revoke his offer. If he does revoke his offer, it will be considered a breach of promise on his behalf, which is a great sin in Islam as it encourages rivalry and mischief among the people.\n\nUnlike common law, Saudi Arabian law requires acceptance to be made before the parties attempting to contract physically part.\n\nCertain terms must also be stated for a Saudi Arabian contract to be enforceable. These include: the items involved, quantity, price, parties and how payment will be made.\n\nThe concept of consideration implies the bargain, or value given in return for value received. Islamic law, unlike common law, does not require consideration. A contract in Saudi Arabia is a bond between the parties and God, hence, the element of consideration is deemed superfluous.\n\nSimilar to common law, defects of consent will prevent the formation of a valid agreement. Vitiating factors include mistake, misrepresentation, duress\nand undue influence...\n\nNot all contractual arrangements are condoned in Sharia law. Unless a term is positively allowed by revelation (\"in the book of God\"), it is invalid.\n\nClassical Sharia law rarely discusses the idea of contractual freedom outside the standard contract types. Instead, it provides for situation where standard contracts can be altered or combined. There are specific prohibitions raised by other \"hadiths\", some important ones prohibiting a loan and a sale, two sales in one, and a sale of what one does not have.\n\nStipulations are divided into three types:\n\nIf the court finds stipulation a void, the contract itself may or may not be void- results vary casuistically.\nIn particular, concomitant stipulations that coincide with or contradict an entailment of the contract, such as a stipulation that a buyer must never resell the object, are forbidden.\n\nCombinations of contracts conditioned on each other are open to many objections, because they confuse the price of the individual contracts and obstruct meting out fair remedies for breach, thereby opening a door to \"riba\" and \"gharar\". There are two major types of contracts that are prohibited in Islamic law: contracts involving usury or uncertainty.\n\nThe Quran forbids \"riba\" in the strongest terms. \"Riba\" is an unjustified enrichment and the principle encompasses a total ban on the charging of interest.\n\nUsurious transactions were classified into three classes:\n\"Riba al-fadl\" and \"riba al-nasi'a\" apply to the exchange of two precious metals (gold or silver) and four commodities (wheat, barley, dates and salt), based on the Prophet's tradition. It was further extended by analogy to the products of these six articles if their present or future exchange could have the smell or taint of \"riba\". Islamic law did not permit exchange of unequal values of these articles and by analogy to a variety of their products. These articles happened to be the basic necessities of life and were a convenient means of exploitation. Promises for future performance were forbidden if goods comprised these articles as the transactions were suspected to contain \"riba\".\n\nThe interpretation of \"riba\" has continued to be revised under the changing economic setting. By the turn of the century, the leading Islamic scholars Abduh and Rida held the view that \"riba al-Jahilya\" was forbidden but it could be deemed lawful under extreme necessity, and that \"riba al-fadl\" and \"riba al nasi'a\" are under a rebuttable presumption of prohibition.\n\nThe ban against interest rates has been circumvented by both parties pretending that a greater amount was lent or that the difference between loan and debt is actually a commission rate.\n\nGambling is another type of transaction condemned in the Quran.\n\nThe Sunna takes this prohibition much further; it not only condemns gambling but also sales of \"gharar\" (peril, risk or hazard).\n\nBesides this, other transactions which are conditioned on uncertain events are also prohibited. Lack of knowledge about the existence or nonexistence of the subject matter, or concerning its quality, quantity, or date of performance, was held to trigger \"gharar\". The ongoing refinement of the doctrine has been narrowed down to the presence or absence of uncertainty about future performance and not to the existence or non-existence of the subject matter at the time of contract. If the nonexistent article or subject matter is certain to be delivered or performed at a future date the prohibition of \"gharar\" does not apply.\n\nRescission is allowed under specific circumstances, such as when the seller fails to perform; the merchandise is defective or the quantity incorrect; the quality of service inferior; or when unforeseen circumstances prevent the completion of the contract.\n\nIn accordance with Islamic law, remedies for contract are restricted to direct and actual damages. The courts will not recognize economic loss of chance, interest, potential profits and other speculative awards that would normally might be given. Specific performance and injunctive relief are likewise generally unavailable.\n\nSaudi Courts also preclude consequential damages based on anticipated profits. As such, contracts involving relationships over time such as continuous supply of goods will not attract full liability if wrongfully terminated. Courts would only award reparations for immediate damages.\n\nIslamic law fixes the relationship of contracting parties to any object involved in the contract as to liability for loss or damage. A party holds the object either as a 'trustee' (\"amin\") or as a 'guarantor' (\"damin\"). A trustee is not liable at all for injury to the object, unless shown to be in breach of trust. A \"damin\", however, bears the same risk of loss as an owner. If an object is destroyed through an act of God or force majeure, the guarantor has no recourse.\n\nEnforcing of a contract consists of three main stages:\n\nThe plaintiff is to ask the defendant for compliance with the contract before filing his summons with the court. Before admitting a plaintiff's summons, a judge will examine it for formal requirements. The summons will be then delivered to a summoning officer for service of process on defendant.\n\nThe defendant files a written defense in answer to the plaintiff's claim. The judge will then set a deadline for the plaintiff to answer the defendant's answer with a written pleading. A pre-trial conference will be held where the judge will discuss procedural issues with the parties. At trial, merits of the case will be argued, and cross examination of witnesses, if any, will take place. After receiving the judgment, the plaintiff is to formally notify the defendant of the judgment. The defendant will then be given a choice to appeal before a certain deadline.\n\nThe plaintiff approaches a court enforcement office or private bailiff to request for an enforcement order. The defendant will be requested to voluntarily comply with the judgment. For contracted debt, the judge will call for a public auction for the property to be sold after the attachment of the defendant’s movable goods. The proceeds of the public auction are distributed to various creditors according to rules of priority.\n\nForeign law contracts are generally enforceable so long as they conform to Sharia law. Thus contracts deemed to be usury or dealing with gambling or risk would not be enforceable. Courts and judicial committees in Saudi Arabia also do not recognise the doctrine of conflict of laws. Hence any action based on a foreign law contract can be submitted to the courts even if there are express choice of law provisions.\n\nThe Board of Grievances, a statutory tribunal separate from the Sharia courts, is empowered to hear requests for the enforcement of foreign judgments and arbitral awards. Article 6 of the Rules of Pleadings and Procedures of the Grievances Board provides that an applicant seeking to enforce foreign judgments or arbitral awards must prove that:\n\nFirstly, the judgment or award must not be contrary to Sharia law or public policy; it must not offend the Sharia principles of \"riba\" and \"gharar\". Judgments or awards involving conventional insurance, speculative loss of chance, interest and potential profits would not be recognized.\n\nThe applicant must also show that a judgment or award by the Saudi Courts would be reciprocally enforced in the applicant’s country. In the past, the Board has declined to accept a legal opinion by a foreign lawyer or a letter from the UK government stating that foreign judgments would generally be enforced in the UK. This second requirement applies in the absence of any bilateral or multilateral agreement relating to the reciprocal enforcement of decisions. Despite being a signatory to regional reciprocity agreements and an international convention on the enforcement of arbitral awards, the decision to enforce such foreign judgements or awards is subject to compliance with Sharia law and public policy.\n\nKing Abdullah succeeded to the throne in 2005 and since then has implemented various reforms in Saudi Arabia with the aim of modernizing the legal system to improve investor confidence.\n\nThe King enacted the Law of Judiciary in 2007 to restructure the judicial system and proposed a codification of unwritten Sharia regulations and principles to ensure certainty and uniformity of judicial decisions. In 2009, the King removed the chairman of the Supreme Judicial Council as the ultraconservative cleric was impeding the king's proposed restructuring of the court system. The unseated cleric was also known to oppose codification of Sharia law.\n\nIn 2010, the top religious body in Saudi Arabia gave the green light for codification of Sharia law. Nonetheless, it has been commented that such legal reforms will take a considerable period of time to be fully implemented due to lack of well-trained judges and lawyers and the ulama's resistance to modernisation and change.\n\n<br>\nEase of enforcing contracts among the world's top 15 \"easiest to doing business\" economies compared (2010 World Bank Data)\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24020359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24020359", "title": "Directorate of Matriculation Schools, Tamil Nadu", "text": "Directorate of Matriculation Schools, Tamil Nadu\n\nThe Directorate of Matriculation Schools, Tamil Nadu is an accreditation and governing body for secondary schools in Tamil Nadu, India. In a concept unique to Tamil Nadu (within India), until 1971 Universities also governed secondary schools, and such schools were accredited to the \"Matriculation\" system. About 5% of schools in Tamil Nadu fall under this system.\n\nSchools use English as the language of instruction. They have a unique curriculum until class 10 and follow the Tamil Nadu State Board curriculum for classes 11 and 12. Schools are accredited on an annual basis.\n\nFor the academic year 2008-09, 2.31 million students were enrolled in the matriculation schools with a boy to girl ratio of 1:0.9. From 2001 to 2008, the pass percentage has been 90 and above excepting for 2002 when it dipped to 87.\n\n"}
{"id": "17522781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17522781", "title": "Edward V. Hartford", "text": "Edward V. Hartford\n\nEdward Vassallo Hartford (May 28, 1870 - June 30, 1922) was the founder and President of the Hartford Suspension Company who perfected the automobile shock absorber. The middle son of A&P owner George Huntington Hartford and Marie Josephine Ludlum, Edward was the only son not involved in day-to-day operations of the food chain. However, starting in 1903, he was Secretary of the A&P corporation and along with his brothers George and John, he was also one of the three trustees who controlled the company's stock after his father died. \n\nHartford was married to Henrietta Guerard Pollitzer (January 4, 1881 - June 3, 1948) and had two children: Josephine Hartford O'Donnell Bryce (August 20, 1902 - June 8, 1992) and Huntington Hartford (April 18, 1911 - May 19, 2008). A Christian Scientist, he refused to see a doctor and died at age 51.\n\nEdward was born in Orange, New Jersey. His father, George Huntington Hartford (1832–1917), owned the Great Atlantic and Pacific Tea Company. When Edward was eight, his father was also elected mayor of his community. He graduated from Orange High School and entered Stevens Institute of Technology. After graduating, he turned down his father's offer to join the firm and traveled for a few years in France and India. \n\nEdward was fascinated by early automobiles, which were simply traditional wagons or carriages with primitive engines. While the springs were adequate at the lower speeds of horse-drawn vehicles, they proved dangerous at higher speeds because they continued to bounce after hitting an uneven surface, potentially causing the vehicle to veer out of control. Early bicycles had a similar problem.\nIn 1899, Edward was in France at a bicycle race where the winning bicycle was equipped with an early shock absorber built by J. Truffault. Hartford bought the rights to the device and perfected its design. In 1904, he established the Hartford Suspension Company and located the firm on Hudson Street in New York City. That year, a car built by Richard-Brasier equipped with Truffault-Hartford shock absorbers won the Gordon Bennett Cup (auto racing) in Germany, helping to establish a reputation for the new device. In 1908, the factory was moved to Jersey City, New Jersey next to the A&P headquarters. Edward continued to develop new features for automobiles. In 1910, he received a patent for an electric starter and the next year for an electric brake.\n\nIn 1901, Hartford married Henrietta Guerard Pollitzer (1881–1948), a socialite whose mother was descended from an old Charleston, South Carolina family. Edward and Henrietta lived on Park Avenue where they were prominent in New York society. They had two children: Josephine Hartford O'Donnell Bryce (1902–1992) and Huntington Hartford (1911–2008). After Edward's company moved to Jersey City, the family moved to Deal, New Jersey, a wealthy community on the shore. Edward was an exceptional violinist and active in sports, including golf, ice skating, and yachting. In 1920, he received a patent for a \"scientific putter\". A Christian Scientist, he refused to see a doctor and died at age 51. \n\nNow a wealthy widow, Henrietta moved with her children to Newport, Rhode Island where she ultimately purchased Seaverage, next to the Rough Point mansion owned by Doris Duke. In 1937, she married an Italian aristocrat, Guido Pignatelli (1900–1967), Prince of Belmonte, who was only two years older than her daughter. In addition to Newport, the couple lived at \"Wando Plantation\", her mansion in South Carolina, in Washington, D.C., and at Melody Farm in Wyckoff, New Jersey where she died in 1948. Edward and Henrietta's granddaughter, Nuala O'Donnell, married Senator Claiborne Pell of Rhode Island.\n"}
{"id": "7139764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7139764", "title": "Export restriction", "text": "Export restriction\n\nExport restrictions, or a restriction on exportation, are limitations on the quantity of goods exported to a specific country or countries by a Government.\n\nAn export restriction may be imposed:\n\nIn the United States, the Export Administration Regulations are issued by the Bureau of Industry and Security (in the Department of Commerce) for all items except munitions. The Department of State has the responsibility of overseeing export of defense and military-related articles as per the International Traffic in Arms Regulations or ITAR.\n"}
{"id": "6418587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6418587", "title": "Financial centre", "text": "Financial centre\n\nA financial centre is a broad term the IMF define as encompassing: International Financial Centres (IFCs), such as New York City, London, and Tokyo; Regional Financial Centres (RFCs), such as Boston, Frankfurt, and Sydney; and Offshore Financial Centres (OFCs), such as The Cayman Islands, Dublin, and Singapore.\n\nIFCs, and many RFCs, are full–service financial centres with direct access to large capital pools from banks, insurance companies, investment funds, and listed capital markets, and are major global cities. OFCs, and also some RFCs, tend to specialise in tax-driven services, such as corporate tax planning BEPS tools, tax–neutral vehicles, and shadow banking/securitization, and can include smaller locations (e.g. Luxembourg), or city-states (e.g. Singapore). The IMF notes an overlap between RFCs and OFCs (e.g. Hong Kong and Singapore are OFCs and RFCs). Since 2010, academics consider OFCs synonymous with tax havens.\n\nIn April 2000, the Financial Stability Forum (\"FSF\"), concerned about OFCs on global financial stability produced a report listing 42 OFCs. In June 2000, the IMF published a working paper on OFCs, but which also proposed a taxonomy on classifying the various types of global financial centres, which they listed as follows (with the description and examples they noted as typical of each category, also noted):\n\nThe IMF noted that the three categories were not mutually exclusive and that various locations could fall under the definition of an OFC and an RFC, in particular (e.g. Singapore and Hong Kong were cited). \n\nThe IMF noted that OFCs could be set up for \"legitimate purposes\" (listing various reasons), but also for what the IMF called \"dubious purposes\", citing tax evasion and money–laundering. In 2007, the IMF produced the following definition of an OFC: \"a country or jurisdiction that provides financial services to nonresidents on a scale that is incommensurate with the size and the financing of its domestic economy\". The FSF annual reports on global shadow banking use the IMF definition to track the OFCs with the largest financial centres relative to their domestic economies.\n\nProgress from 2000 onwards from IMF–OECD–FATF initiatives on common standards, regulatory compliance, and banking transparency, has reduced the regulatory attraction of OFCs over IFCs and RFCs. Since 2010, academics considered the services of OFCs to be synonymous with tax havens, and use the term OFC and tax haven interchangeably (e.g. the academic lists of tax havens include all the FSF–IMF OFCs).\n\nIn July 2017, a study by the University of Amsterdam's CORPNET group, broke down the definition of an OFC into two subgroups, Conduit and Sink OFCs:\n\n\nSink OFCs rely on Conduit OFCs to re–route funds from high–tax locations using base erosion and profit shifting (\"BEPS\") tax planning tools, which are encoded, and accepted, in the Conduit OFC's extensive networks of global bilateral tax treaties. Because Sink OFCs are more closely associated with traditional tax havens, they tend to have more limited treaty networks and access to global higher–tax locations.\n\nPrior to the 1960s, there is little data available to rank financial centres. In recent years many rankings have been developed and published. Two of the most relevant are the \"Global Financial Centres Index\" and the \"Xinhua–Dow Jones International Financial Centres Development Index\".\n\nThe Global Financial Centres Index (\"GFCI\") is compiled semi–annually by the London–based British think tank Z/Yen in conjunction with the Shenzen–based think tank China Development Institute. New York City led as of September 2018, although the list has demonstrated volatility in the rankings.\n\nAs of September 2018, the top ten global financial centres per the GFCI article containing a ranked list of 100 financial centres were:\n\n(Δ) Appears on the FSF–IMF Offshore Financial Centre (OFC) Lists.<br>\n(†) Also appears as one of the top 5 Conduit OFC, in CORPNET's 2017 research; or<br>\n(‡) Also appears as one of the top 5 Sink OFC, in CORPNET's 2017 research.<br>\n\nThe Xinhua–Dow Jones International Financial Centers Development Index was compiled annually by the Xinhua News Agency of China with the Chicago Mercantile Exchange and Dow Jones & Company of the United States from 2010 to 2014. During that time New York was the top–ranked centre. \n\nAccording to the 2014 Xinhua–Dow Jones International Financial Centres Development Index, the top ten financial centres in the world were:\n(Δ) Appears on the FSF–IMF Offshore Financial Centre (OFC) Lists.<br>\n(†) Also appears as one of the top 5 Conduit OFC, in CORPNET's 2017 research; or<br>\n(‡) Also appears as one of the top 5 Sink OFC, in CORPNET's 2017 research.<br>\n\nOld finance centers such as Amsterdam, London, Paris, New York, and Tokyo have long histories. Today there is a diverse range of financial centres worldwide. While New York and London often stand out as the leading global financial centres, other established financial centres provide significant competition and several newer financial centres are developing. Despite this proliferation of financial centres, academics have discussed evidence showing increasing concentration of financial activity in the largest national and international financial centres in the 21st century. Others have discussed the ongoing dominance of New York and London, and the role linkages between these two financial centres played in the financial crisis of 2007–08.\n\nComparisons of financial centres focus on their history, role and significance in serving national, regional and international financial activity. Each centre's offering includes differing legal, tax and regulatory environments. One journalist suggested three factors for success as a financial city: \"a pool of capital to lend or invest; a decent legal and taxation framework; and high-quality human resources\".\n\nLondon, New York, and Tokyo are in every list of major IFCs. Some of the major RFCs (see below), such as Paris, Frankfurt, Chicago, and Shanghai appear as IFCs in some lists.\n\n\n\n\nThese centres appear in all FSF–IMF lists of OFCs and, bar the Caribbean OFCs of the Cayman Islands, the British Virgin Islands, and Bermuda, represent all the major OFCs. Some also appear as RFCs in various lists, particularly Hong Kong, and Singapore. They also appear on most lists of major tax havens, and on lists of the largest Conduit and Sink OFCs in the world.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn some lists, RFCs such as Paris, Frankfurt, Chicago, and Shanghai appear as IFCs, however, they do not appear in all lists. They are certainly major RFCs.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nPrimitive financial centres started in the 11th century in the Kingdom of England at the annual fair of St. Giles and in the Kingdom of Germany at the Frankfurt autumn fair, then developed in medieval France during the Champaign Fairs.\n\nThe first real international financial center was the City State of Venice which slowly emerged from the 9th century to its peak in the 14th century. Tradable bonds as a commonly used type of security, were invented by the Italian city-states (such as Venice and Genoa) of the late medieval and early Renaissance periods.\n\nIn the sixteenth century, the overall economic supremacy of the Italian city-states gradually came to an end, and the centre of financial activities in Europe shifted to the Low Countries, first to Bruges, and later to Antwerp and Amsterdam. They also became important centres of financial innovation.\n\nIn the 17th century, Amsterdam became the leading commercial and financial centre. It held this position for more than a century, and was the first modern model of an international financial centre. As Richard Sylla (2015) noted, \"In modern history, several nations had what some of us call financial revolutions. These can be thought of as creating in a short period of time all the key components of a modern financial system. The first was the Dutch Republic four centuries ago.\" Amsterdam – unlike its predecessors such as Bruges, Antwerp, Genoa, and Venice – controlled crucial resources and markets directly, sending its fleets to all quarters of the world.\n\nDuring their Golden Age, the Dutch were responsible for three major institutional innovations in economic, financial and business history of the world:\n\n\nIn many respects, the 17th-century Dutch financial innovations helped shape the foundations of modern-day financial system of the world, and greatly influenced the financial history of many English-speaking countries (especially the United Kingdom and United States) in subsequent centuries.\n\nBy the early 1800s, London officially replaced Amsterdam as the world's leading financial centre. In his book \"Capitals of Capital\" (2010), Youssef Cassis argues that the decline and fall of Amsterdam, as the world's foremost financial capital, was one of the dramatic events in history of global finance.\n\nLondon and Paris were the world's only prominent financial centers throughout most of the 19th century. After 1870, Berlin and New York grew to become major financial centres mainly serving their national economies. An array of smaller international financial centers found market niches, such as Amsterdam, Brussels, Zurich, and Geneva. London remained the leading international financial center in the four decades leading up to World War I. Since then, London and New York have developed leading positions in different activities and some non-Western financial centres have grown in prominence, notably Tokyo, Hong Kong and Singapore.\n\nIn Asia, Tokyo emerged as a major financial centre in the 1980s as the Japanese economy became one of the largest in the world. Hong Kong and Singapore developed soon after leveraging their links with London and Britain. In the 21st century, other centres have grown including Toronto, Sydney, Seoul and Shanghai. Dubai has become a centre for finance in the Middle East, including for Islamic finance. The rapid rise of India has enabled Mumbai to become an emerging financial centre. Linked to the rise of these new IFCs, has seen the rise of \"partner OFCs\" (offshore tax-havens to which funds are routed), such as Taiwan (a major Sink OFC for Asia, and 7th largest global Sink OFC), Mauritius (a major Sink OFC for S.E Asia, especially India, and Africa, and the 9th largest global Sink OFC).\n\nThe private nationwide financial system in China was first developed by the Shanxi merchants, with the creation of so-called \"draft banks\". The first draft bank Rishengchang was created in 1823 in Pingyao. Some large draft banks had branches in Russia, Mongolia and Japan to facilitate the international trade. Throughout the nineteenth century, the central Shanxi region became the de facto financial centres of Qing China. With the fall of Qing Dynasty, the financial centers gradually shifted to Shanghai, mainly due to its geographical location at the estuary of the Yangtze river, and the control of customs in China. After the establishment of People's Republic of China, the financial centres in China today are Hong Kong, Beijing, Shanghai and Shenzhen.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20959887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20959887", "title": "GAO Review", "text": "GAO Review\n\nThe GAO Review was an American magazine published during the late 20th century. It was published by the Government Accountability Office of the United States Congress. It began in 1966 and ceased publication in 1987. It was succeeded by \"The GAO Journal\"\n\nThe purpose of the Review was to cover government and defense auditing topics, document the activities of the GAO, and provide a forum for GAO employees.\n\nContents of the following issues are within the scope of the GAO web site search as of January 2009.\n"}
{"id": "2498774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2498774", "title": "General incorporation law", "text": "General incorporation law\n\nA general incorporation law allows corporations to be formed without a charter from the legislature. It also refers to a law enabling a certain type of corporation, such as a railroad, to exercise eminent domain and other special rights without a charter from the legislature.\n\nList of early general incorporation laws:\n\n\nThe UK required a legislative charter for incorporation until passage of the Joint Stock Companies Act 1844.\n"}
{"id": "44735011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44735011", "title": "George Bobolas", "text": "George Bobolas\n\nGeorge Bobolas () is a Greek construction and media businessman.\n\nBobolas has developed properties all over the Balkans, Europe and the Near East for over four decades. He is also a media magnate owning the Greek TV Mega Channel and several magazines and newspapers, part of Attiki Odos, 49% of the Parnitha Casino and gold mines in Italy and Greece. He has 5.62% of the voting rights of Pegasus Publishing S.A, which is listed on the Athens Stock Exchange ().\n\nHe owns 15% of Ellaktor, Greece's largest construction group and among the 20 largest in Europe, and his son Leonidas Bobolas is a director.\n"}
{"id": "1228395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1228395", "title": "George Eaton", "text": "George Eaton\n\nGeorge Ross Eaton (born 12 November 1945) is a Canadian former racing driver who is a member of the prominent Eaton family.\n\nEaton was born in Toronto, he is the youngest son of John and Signy Eaton. He gained attention as a Canadian race driver who participated in Can Am, Formula One and Formula A races.\n\nHe served as president of the family company for ten years. Under his leadership, Eaton's continued its precipitous decline from its historic dominance in the Canadian retail market.\n\nHis Formula One career with British Racing Motors included 13 World Championship Grands Prix and one non-Championship race, debuting on 5 October 1969. He scored no championship points.\n\nEaton raced in the Can-Am series in 1968, 69 and 70. He was the top Canadian in the Can-Am Series in 1969. He participated in the Canadian Formula A series in 1969 and the Continental Series in 1969 and 1971 but retired from racing after 1972. He was inducted into the Canadian Motorsport Hall of Fame in 1994.\n\nList of Canadians in Champ Car\n\n"}
{"id": "28934984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28934984", "title": "Gladys Guggenheim Straus", "text": "Gladys Guggenheim Straus\n\nGladys Eleanor Guggenheim Straus (August 15, 1895 – March 14, 1980) was an expert on food and nutrition.\n\nHer father was Daniel Guggenheim of the Guggenheim family.\n\nShe was born on August 15, 1895 as Gladys Eleanor Guggenheim. On January 12, 1914 Gladys married Roger Williams Straus, Sr. of the American Smelting and Refining Company and son of diplomat Oscar Straus and Sarah Lavanburg Straus, with whom she two sons: Roger and Oscar, and one daughter, Florence. She died on March 14, 1980.\n"}
{"id": "24184337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24184337", "title": "Henry Lim Bon Liong", "text": "Henry Lim Bon Liong\n\nHenry Lim Bon Liong is the chief executive officer of Sterling Paper Group of Companies, S.P. Properties, Inc., SL Agritech Corporation and was a member of the governing council of the Philippine Council for Agriculture, Forestry, and Natural Resources Research and Development (PCARRD) from 2005 to 2007. He studied at St. Jude Catholic School.\n\nBorn to Maria Co Chiao Ti Lim and Lim Seh Leng, he belongs to one of the migrant Chinese families in the Philippines. They lived in a one-room apartment without a toilet and they cannot speak any Tagalog. Through his father's determination, they were given Filipino citizenship. His father founded Sterling Bookbinding with Sterling Family Photo Album as its main product. This bookbinding business flourished into Sterling Paper Products Enterprises in 1961, with school and office supplies aside from photo albums as products. In 1976, Lim Seh Leng died and Henry as the eldest, took over the business.\n\nThrough Henry's management, the business expanded. More products were introduced and retail outlets were established.\n\nHe also ventured into real estate business, creating S.P. Properties, Inc. and the latest of which is the production of hybrid rice, through the establishment of SL Agritech Corporation in September 2006. SL Agritech Corporation aims to solve the insufficiency of rice supply in the Philippines. It is now the number one distributor of hybrid seeds throughout the Philippines and has now expanded to exporting rice to a number of countries including but not limited to Malaysia, Singapore, Indonesia, and Madagascar.\n\n"}
{"id": "39230720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39230720", "title": "Hossein Hedayati", "text": "Hossein Hedayati\n\nHossein Hedayati is an Iranian business tycoon who most notably purchased Steel Azin F.C. and invested into Persepolis F.C..\n\nHedayati gained popularity among a large group of football fans in Iran, after joining the board of directors at Persepolis F.C. which saw him invest large sums of money into the Persian giants. He is also the owner of Steel Azin F.C., since 2007. While always a controversial figure for his unknown background, there has never been a doubt about his influence on Iranian football. After his takeover of Ekbatan FC he transformed a struggling Azadegan League side, into a dominant force in the Persian Gulf Cup. That team also included Ali Karimi who was often the cause of trouble at the club. Following a dispute with the then team CEO, Sardar Hajilou, Ali Karimi was punished for an indefinite time. Hedayati did not want to kick him out of the club due to their friendship. Eventually though, the player's contract was terminated, but the clubs downfall continued. The Ali Karimi ordeal was only a small issue at a club which was known for causing a media stir and six weeks before the end of the season, a team which included players like Mehdi Mahdavikia was relegated from the Persian Gulf Cup.\n\nHis investments were seen as advertisement and sort of an audition, before a looming privatization of Persepolis F.C.. It never materialized though, and he soon left the board of directors, sighting \"strategic differences\" with fellow members. Steel Azin F.C. was later relegated from the premier league. Often dubbed as the \"Abramovich of Iran\", Hedayati, purchased Malavan F.C. in 2012, but gave up control before the season was over. During the same year, he made a takeover bid for Gahar Zagros, which caused for controversy, as he would become the owner of two teams in the same league. He later withdrew the offer. He is still regarded as one of the top candidates to take over Persepolis FC should it become available.\n"}
{"id": "53117514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53117514", "title": "Intensive farming in Almería", "text": "Intensive farming in Almería\n\nThe intensive agriculture of the province of Almeria, Spain, is a model of agricultural exploitation of high technical and economic yield based on the rational use of water, sanding, use of plastic greenhouses, high technical training and high level of employment of Inputs, on the peculiar characteristics of the environment.\n\nAlthough this area of Spain is sometimes known as the “market garden” of Europe, it is responsible for the hidden practice of the slave labour of thousands of migrant African migrant workers.\n\nAnother unknown fact is that for many years the discarded plastic sheeting from the hundreds of square kilometres of greenhouses has been dumped on adjacent land. This plastic slowly breaks down into minute particles and ends up in the Mediterranean where it pollutes the waters and aquatic life and ironically gets into the human food chain.\n\nThe first greenhouse was built in 1963 and the technique was extended by the \"Campo de Dalías\" or \"Poniente Almeriense\" and later by the \"Campo de Níjar\", in the east. The use of polyethylene as a substitute for glass had already been tested in the Canary Islands and Catalonia before. The plastic was spread over wooden posts or metal structures and secured by wire. The transparent plastic intensifies the heat and maintains the humidity. This allows harvests to be harvested one month earlier than in the open field and more ahead than in other regions, starting harvesting in December and allowing the plant growth of the autumn-winter plantings until March, doubling and sometimes tripling the number of harvests.\n\nIn February 2010 a new certification regulation of the N brand of AENOR for fruits and vegetables for fresh consumption came into force. This regulation describes the control system of the ISO 155 standard. This mark guarantees to customers that the products comply with quality protocols that include good agricultural practices, respect for the environment, traceability and social measures. The fulfillment of the norm covers almost all the requirements that the great European distribution demands to the producers of fruits and vegetables. These standards are homologated with the GLOBALGAP protocol.\n\nAccording to data from EXTENDA (Andalusian Agency for Foreign Promotion), the value of exports of fruit and vegetables in 2012 amounted to 1,914.1 million euros, a growth of 9.7% compared to 2011. Fresh vegetables and vegetables contributed 1,665.5 million. There were 359 exporting companies, 222 regular. These sales accounted for 47.3% of the total of the autonomous community. Among the client countries are Germany, 29.7% of the total, France, 15%, the Netherlands, 13.1%, the United Kingdom, 11.3%, and Italy, 7.2%. They are followed by Poland, Belgium, Sweden, Denmark and Portugal. According to the same source, in the first six months of 2013 sales totaled 1,600 million euros, 14.6% more than the previous year.\n\nBetween January and October 2013, the province exported more than 12.8 million kilos of live plants and cut flowers, 18.4% more than in the same period of 2012. The turnover amounted to almost 18.7 million euros, 56% more. Exports of ornamental plants accounted for more than 17.8 million euros, an increase of 59% over the same period in 2012. The main buyers are France, with 59.6% of the plants, Germany, with a 14.2%, and the Netherlands, with 10.6%. They are followed by Belgium, Portugal, Italy, United Kingdom, United States and Morocco.\n\nThe specialization of farmers by a single product is increasingly observed, as is the concentration of gender marketing in a few large firms. The largest companies such as Agroponiente, Unica Group, CASI, Alhóndiga La Unión, Agroiris and Vicasol account for 35% of the market share in 2015.\n\nIn agriculture, integrated pest management (IPM) or integrated pest control (IPC) is understood as a strategy that uses a variety of complementary methods: physical, mechanical, chemical, biological, genetic, legal and cultural for control of pests. These methods are applied in three stages: prevention, observation and application. It is an ecological method that aims to reduce or eliminate the use of pesticides and minimize the impact on the environment. There is also talk about ecological pest management (EPM) and natural pest management.\n\nUp to 2015, 60% of the area devoted to horticultural crops in the province used biological pest control techniques. The percentages are higher in some fundamental crops like pepper, 100%, and tomato, 85%. In all, some 26600 hectares of protected horticulture use these techniques, when in 2006 they were only used in about 129.\n\nThe Regional Ministry of Agriculture and Fisheries of the Andalusian Government is launching a plan (Compromiso Verde or Green Commitment) in 2016 to expand the area to 100%. For the Regional Government, this is the model that should extend the distances with traditional crops and leave a definitive patent that Almeria produces with more quality, more traceability and more food security than any:\n\n...guarantees the quality and improves the positioning of our products in international markets, increases the profitability of farms, enhances respect for the environment and minimizes the presence of insect vectors of viruses and favors the correct management of pests.\" (Carmen Ortiz Rivas, Minister of Agriculture, Fisheries and Rural Development.)\n\nAnalyzes of horticultural products indicate that only 0,6% of the samples show pesticide residues, when the European average is 2,8% (five times more).\nPlastic waste from the greenhouses is reported to run off into the mediterranean.\n\n"}
{"id": "241185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=241185", "title": "International Chamber of Commerce", "text": "International Chamber of Commerce\n\nThe International Chamber of Commerce (ICC; French: \"Chambre de commerce internationale\") is the largest, most representative business organization in the world. Its 6 million members in over 100 countries have interests spanning every sector of private enterprise.\n\nICC has three main activities: rule setting, dispute resolution, and policy advocacy. Because its member companies and associations are themselves engaged in international business, ICC has unrivalled authority in making rules that govern the conduct of business across borders. Although these rules are voluntary, they are observed in countless thousands of transactions every day and have become part of international trade.\n\nA world network of national committees in over 100 countries advocates business priorities at national and regional level. More than 3,000 experts drawn from ICC’s member companies feed their knowledge and experience into crafting the ICC stance on specific business issues.\n\nICC supports the work of the United Nations, the World Trade Organization, and many other intergovernmental bodies, both international and regional, such as G20 on behalf of international business. ICC was the first organization granted general consultative status with the United Nations Economic and Social Council and UN Observer Status .\n\nThe International Chamber of Commerce was founded in 1919 to serve world business by promoting trade and investment, open markets for goods and services, and the free flow of capital. The organization's international secretariat was established in Paris and the ICC's International Court of Arbitration was created in 1923.\n\nICC's first chairman was 20th-century French Minister of Finance Etienne Clémentel. \n\nThere are two ways to become a member of ICC:\n\n1. Through affiliation with an ICC national committee or group.\n\n2. By direct membership with the ICC International Secretariat when a national committee/group has not yet been established in the country/territory.\n\nICC's supreme governing body is the World Council, consisting of representatives of national committees. The World Council elects ICC’s highest officers, including the Chairman and the Vice-Chairman, each of whom serves a two-year term. The Chairman, Vice-Chairman and the Honorary Chairman (the immediate past Chairman) provide the organization with high-level world leadership. They play an important role in ICC section.\n\nStrategic direction for ICC is provided by its executive board, consisting of up to 30 business leaders and ex-officio members. It is elected by the World Council on the recommendation of the Chairmanship. Meeting three times a year, the Executive Board oversees the establishment of ICC’s strategic priorities and the implementation of its policies.\n\nThe ICC International Secretariat, based in Paris, is the operational arm of ICC. It develops and carries out ICC’s work programme, feeding business views into intergovernmental organizations on issues that directly affect business operations. The International Secretariat is led by the Secretary General, who is appointed by the World Council.\n\nIn 92 of the world’s nations, members have established formal ICC structures called national committees. In countries where there is no national committee, companies and organizations such as chambers of commerce and professional associations can become direct members.\n\nThe Finance Committee advises the Executive Board on all financial matters. On behalf of the Executive Board, it prepares the budget and regularly reports to the board. It reviews the financial implications of ICC activities and supervises the flow of revenues and expenses of the organization.\n\nICC's administered dispute resolution services help solve difficulties in international business. ICC Arbitration is a private procedure that leads to a binding and enforceable decision.\n\nThe International Court of Arbitration of the International Chamber of Commerce steers ICC Arbitration and has received over 21,000 cases since its inception in 1923. Over the past decade, the Court's workload has considerably expanded.\n\nThe Court's membership has also grown and now covers 85 countries and territories. With representatives in North America, Latin and Central America, Africa and the Middle East and Asia, the ICC Court has significantly increased its training activities on all continents and in all major languages used in international trade.\n\nICC Dispute Resolution Services exist in many forms:\n\n\nICC policies, rules and standards are prepared by specialized working bodies. Normal procedure requires policy statements first to be adopted by a commission, in consultation with national committees, and then approved by the Executive Board, before they can be regarded as official and public ICC positions.\n\nCommissions examine major policy issues of interest to world business. Each national committee (NC) or group may appoint delegates to represent it at meetings. Officers are appointed by the Chairman and Secretary General in consultation with NCs. Meetings of commissions are normally held twice a year.\n\nTask forces are constituted under the various commissions for a limited period to undertake specific projects and report back to their parent commission. Some task forces may include representatives of more than one commission.\n\nIn September 2011, the International Chamber of Commerce introduced the newly revised consolidated ICC Code of Advertising and Marketing Communication Practice, along with a dedicated website, www.codescentre.com, to guide advertising and marketing professionals around the globe. This Code sets ethical standards and guidelines for businesses using today’s rapidly changing technology, tools and techniques to market products and services. Developed by experts from all sectors of industry and all regions of the world, the code’s purpose is to protect consumers by clearly setting out guidelines for responsible marketing.\n\nThe Code is structured in two main sections—General Provisions and Chapters. The General Provisions section contains fundamental principles and other broad concepts that apply to all marketing in all media. Code Chapters are detailed and apply to specific marketing areas, including: Sales Promotion, Sponsorship, Direct Marketing, Digital Media and Environmental Marketing Claim.\n\nIn 1951, ICC established the World Chambers Federation (WCF), formerly the International Bureau of Chambers of Commerce. WCF is the unique global forum uniting the worldwide network of more than 12,000 chambers of commerce and industry. It aims to facilitate the exchange of best practice and the development of new global products and services for chambers, and foster international partnerships between chambers and other stakeholders to help local businesses grow. WCF is a non-political, non-governmental body, with its membership comprising local, regional, national, bilateral and transnational chambers of commerce, as well as public-law and private-law chambers.\n\nWCF was established by ICC and its chamber members following a resolution at the conclusion of the World Congress of Chambers of Commerce (Rome 1950). At its inaugural committee meeting held in Paris in December 1950, WCF was to be first known as the International Information Bureau of Chambers of Commerce. As its role expanded and grew during the 1960s, its name changed to become the International Bureau of Chambers of Commerce and by June 2001, it became known as the World Chambers Federation.\n\nWith a history spanning over 400 years, chambers today exist in almost every country and business community around the world. Chambers of Commerce and Industry can be defined as:\n\nWCF also organizes the World Chambers Congress every two years in a different region of the world. The Congress is the only international forum for chamber leaders and professionals to share best practices, exchange insights, develop networks, address the latest business issues affecting their communities, and learn about new areas of innovation from chambers around the world.\n\nDuring the Congress, WCF also announces the winners of World Chambers Competition, the only global awards program to recognize the most innovative projects undertaken by chambers of commerce and industry from around the world.\n\nStaged all over the world, ICC events range from large topical conferences to training sessions for small groups. These smaller courses share ICC’s expertise on commercial arbitration and dispute resolution mechanisms as well as ICC's trade tools including Incoterms® rules, uniform customs and practice for documentary letter of credit (UCP) and international contracts.\n\nICC Publications is the publishing arm of the International Chamber of Commerce providing business with essential resources in three broad categories: ICC rules and guidelines, practical commentaries, and reference works. The content of ICC’s publications is derived from the work of ICC commissions, institutions and individual international experts.\n\nICC publishes mainly for international lawyers, arbitrators, bankers, traders and students covering topics such as international banking, international trade reference and terms, law and arbitration, counterfeiting and fraud and model commercial contracts. The best known publications, Uniform Customs and Practice for Documentary Credits and Incoterms®, have been translated into more than 30 languages.\n\nICC offers its publications not only in the traditional paper format, but also in electronic format, eBooks, on the ICC Store.\n\nICC Commercial Crime Services (CCS) provides the world business community with a centralized commercial crime-fighting body. It draws on the worldwide resources of its members in the fight against commercial crime on many fronts.\n\nFrom its base in London, and comprising three distinct bureaux, CCS operates according to two basic principles: to prevent commercial crime and to investigate and help prosecute criminals involved in commercial crime.\n\nThe specialized divisions of CCS are:\n\nICC established BASCAP to take a leading role in the fight against counterfeiting and piracy.\n\nBASCAP unites the global business community to more effectively identify and address intellectual property rights issues and petition for greater commitments by local, national and international officials in the enforcement and protection of IPR.\n\nThe work of BASCAP aims to:\n\nBASCAP speaks out on the damage caused by counterfeiting and piracy, including:\n\nICC set up BASIS (Business Action to Support the Information Society) in mid-2006 to\nspeak out on a wide range of critical issues, including:\n\nThe International Chamber of Commerce (ICC), in partnership with the Qatar Chamber, launched the ICC Business World Trade Agenda initiative in March 2012 to provide private sector leadership in shaping a new multilateral trade policy agenda. The aim of this initiative is ultimately to drive World Trade Organization (WTO) multilateral trade talks out of an 11-year deadlock and \"beyond Doha\".\n\nThe World Trade Agenda is a strong business-led initiative to bolster rules-based trade. The WTO lends its support to this initiative by engaging business to provide recommendations to advance global trade negotiations.\n\nThe World Trade Agenda aims to:\n\nSince its launch, the World Trade Agenda initiative has organized consultations with CEOs and senior executives in all major regions of the world to gather input and validation of its recommendations. These business priorities were released during the ICC World Trade Agenda Summit on 22 April 2013 in Doha.\n\nThe Agreement on Trade Facilitation was finally adopted at the WTO's 9th Ministerial Conference on 7 December 2013. It was the first major agreement on trade facilitation to have been reached since the creation of the WTO.\n\nSince 1946, ICC has held top-level consultative status with the United Nations and a close working relationship with its specialized agencies. The current ICC Permanent Representative to the UN is Andrew Wilson. On 21 December 2016 the International Chamber of Commerce was granted Observer status by the General Assembly of the United Nations on the basis of General Assembly Resolution (A/RES/71/156) On 13 December 2016, ICC was granted Observer Status by 193 members of the UN General Assembly. ICC took up its position as Observer to the General Assembly on 1 January 2017.\n\nThe ICC Research Foundation (ICCRF) was established in 2010 by ICC to commission independent research that contributes to public knowledge, education and debate on the benefits of global trade and investment. The research projects funded by the ICCRF and conducted by leading international researchers and organizations, contribute to the following aims: \n\nThe ICC Research Foundation is governed by a board of trustees, who include Cherie Nursalim and Gerard Worms.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23811667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23811667", "title": "Jarratt report", "text": "Jarratt report\n\nThe Jarratt report was an inquiry into British higher education published in 1985. While delivered during the Thatcher era, it was commissioned by the Committee of Vice-Chancellors and Principals. The report viewed Universities as enterprises not unlike a factory, and in which students were the customer. Concomitantly, academics were viewed less as a self-governing group seeking to expand knowledge and more as shop-floor deliverers of education, subject to performance indicators. Organizational-functions, similarly, were viewed as need dedicated managers, with transfer of these roles from academics to these managers. The adoption of the report led to the abolition of academic tenure. It has been argued that the report thus laid the ground for the increase of managerialism in the academy. It has also been stated that since the report, it has become explicit State policy that university staff are paid to help their employers compete against sister institutions, rather than to serve wider ends.\n"}
{"id": "39168704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39168704", "title": "Khalid bin Mohammad Al Attiyah", "text": "Khalid bin Mohammad Al Attiyah\n\nKhalid bin Mohammad Al Attiyah (, born 9 March 1967) is a Qatari politician who was Minister of Foreign Affairs of Qatar from June 2013 to January 2016. He has been Minister of State for Defense since January 2016.\n\nAl Attiyah was born on 9 March 1967. His family belong to the Banu Tamim tribe to which the ruling family of Qatar, the House of Thani, also belong. His father was the founder of the Qatar Armed Forces.\n\nHe received a bachelor's degree in air science from King Faisal Air Academy in 1987 and also, a law degree from Beirut Arab University in 1993. He holds a master's degree in public law (1991) and a PhD in law (2006), both of which he received from Cairo University.\n\nAl Attiyah started his career as a fighter pilot and joined Qatar's air force, where he served from 1987 to 1995. He left the air force and established a law firm in 1995. From 2003 to 2008 he served as the President of the National Committee for Human Rights. During the same period he also owned a law firm.\n\nThen he served as the Minister of State for International Cooperation from 2008 to 2011. During his tenure he also served as acting Minister for Business and Trade. In 2009, he became a member of Silatech's board of trustees. He is also a member of the board of directors and chairman of the executive committee of the Diar company, and a member of the board of directors of the Qatar electricity and water company.\n\nIn a cabinet reshuffle in September 2011, Al Attiyah was appointed as Minister of State for Foreign Affairs in the cabinet led by Prime Minister Hamad bin Jassim Al Thani. On 26 June 2013, Al Attiyah was named as the Minister of Foreign Affairs in a cabinet reshuffle. He replaced Hamad bin Jassim Al Thani as foreign minister. The cabinet is headed by Prime Minister Abdullah bin Nasser Al Thani.\n\nIn a cabinet reshuffle on 27 January 2016, Al Attiyah was replaced as Minister of Foreign Affairs by Mohammed bin Abdulrahman Al Thani. In the same reshuffle Al Attiyah was appointed as Minister of State for Defense.\n\n"}
{"id": "36948676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36948676", "title": "List of toy soldiers brands", "text": "List of toy soldiers brands\n\nThis is a list of worldwide brands and manufactures of toy soldiers.\n\nA\nB\nC\n\nD\nE\nF\n\nG\n\nH\nI\nJ\nK\nL\nM\nN\n\nO\nP\n\nQ\n\nR\nS\n\nT\nU\nV\nW\nX\nY\nZ\n"}
{"id": "1257124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1257124", "title": "Michael Astor", "text": "Michael Astor\n\nThe Hon. Michael Langhorne Astor (10 April 1916 – 28 February 1980) was a British Conservative Party politician.\n\nMichael Astor was born on 10 April 1916. He was the fourth child of Waldorf Astor, 2nd Viscount Astor, and Nancy Witcher Langhorne, both Members of Parliament. He was educated at Eton College. He gained the rank of Captain, serving in the Royal Artillery (Territorial Army).\n\nHe was elected as Conservative Member of Parliament for Surrey East in the 1945 General Election. He kept his seat in the 1950 election but did not stand in 1951. He wrote a memoir, \"Tribal Feeling\", published in 1963, and a novel, \"Brand\", published in 1968.\n\nHe married three times:\n\nHe was a friend of Ian Fleming, author of the James Bond series, and dined with him shortly before his death on 12 August 1964.\n"}
{"id": "27599761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27599761", "title": "National Arbitration and Mediation", "text": "National Arbitration and Mediation\n\nNational Arbitration and Mediation (NAM) is a provider of Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR) services, including Arbitration and Mediation NAM provides services to business entities and individuals who seek to resolve their dispute/conflict outside of the court system. The company maintains rosters of neutrals in all 50 states, Puerto Rico and in major cities around the world. NAM Neutrals consist of former Judges and attorney specialists with subject-matter expertise in a wide array of practice areas.\n\nNAM was founded in 1992 by Roy Israel, its President and CEO, and is headquartered in Garden City, New York. The company went public in 1996 and was a NASDAQ-listed company owned by public shareholders. In early 2005, it was privatized and remains so to this day.\n\nNAM offers Mediation, Arbitration, Alternative Dispute Resolution (ADR), conflict resolution, Settlement conferences, Discovery Referees, Litigation Management, Baseball Arbitration, High/Low Arbitration, Complex multi-party Dispute Resolution, In Person Hearings, Hearings/Trial by Written Submission, National and International Initiatives, Online and Offline Case Management, Trial Preparation Services, Mock Jury Trials, Dispute Resolution Training, Videoconferencing, myADR, CLE (Continuing Legal Education).\nSubject areas include: Personal Injury, Product Liability, Negligence, Toxic Tort, Business/Commercial, Bankruptcy, Breach of Contract, Franchise, Professional Liability/Malpractice(Medical Malpractice, Podiatric Malpractice, Dental Malpractice, Nursing Home, Attorney/Legal Malpractice, Accounting Malpractice, Architectural, Director and Officer), Employment (Harassment, Discrimination, Wrongful Termination, Wage & Hour, FLSA, Retaliation, Family and Medical Leave Act, Title VII, Severance Contracts, Non-Compete Agreements, ERISA), Labor, Union and Collective Bargaining, Legal Ethics, Art Law, Banking & Finance, Bankruptcy, Insurance Coverage, Environmental, Land Use, Construction, Civil Rights, Real Estate Disputes, Landlord/Tenant, Partnership Disputes, Dissolution Proceedings, Intellectual Property (Copyright, Trademark, Patent, Infringement, Trade Secrets), E-Discovery, Consumer Transactions and Claims, Cruise Line Disputes (Seafarer and Crew Member claims, Passenger Ticket Contract) Trust & Estates, Matrimonial, Sports Law, Entertainment Law, International Law, Maritime Law/Jones Act, Negligence, Premises Liability, Property/Land Law/Leasing, Securities/Financial, Government/Public Agency, International, Life Health & Disability.\n\nFor the third year in a row, NAM was named the #1 ADR firm in the United States by the 2018 National Law Journal Reader Rankings Annual Survey (with 4 years ranked #1). 2 of NAM's Mediators were voted in the Top 3 in that same survey.\n"}
{"id": "3509417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3509417", "title": "Oscar B. Cintas", "text": "Oscar B. Cintas\n\nOscar Benjamin Cintas y Rodriguez, (31 Mar 1887 in Sagua la Grande, Cuba – 11 May 1957 in New York City, N.Y.) was a prominent sugar and railroad magnate who served as Cuba’s ambassador to the United States from 1932 until 1934.\n\nHe was educated in London and became director of the Cuban Railroad Company’s sugar mills in Punta Alegre, Jatibonico and Jobabo. He was president of Railroad Equipment of Brazil and Argentina, director of the American Car and Foundry Company and the American Locomotive Company and had business interests in Europe.\n\nAs a patron of the arts and with the advice of the legendary Alfred H. Barr Jr., Cintas assembled a collection of Old Masters and modern paintings that was once considered among the best in Latin America. In 1940, he lent one of the pieces from the collection, Rembrandt’s \"Portrait of a Rabbi on a Wide Cap\", to the \"Masterpieces of Art\" exhibition at the New York World’s Fair.\n\nBliss Copy<br>\nCintas also collected manuscripts and his acquisitions included the only first edition of Cervantes’ \"Don Quixote\", and the fifth and final manuscript of Abraham Lincoln’s \"Gettysburg Address\", once owned by the family of Col. Alexander Bliss, and known as the \"Bliss copy\". Cintas’ purchase of the manuscript, for $54,000, in 1949, set a record at the time for the sale of a document at a public auction. Cintas' properties were claimed by the Castro government after the Cuban Revolution in 1959, but Cintas, who died in 1957, willed the Gettysburg Address to the American people, provided it was kept at the White House, to where it was transferred in 1959. The manuscript, the only one to which Lincoln added his signature, is exhibited in the Lincoln Bedroom of the White House.\n\nBefore his death, Cintas entrusted the administration of his estate, including his art collection, to The Chase Manhattan Bank, N.A., with Ethan Alyea serving as legal counsel. With the help and encouragement of David Rockefeller, Alyea named a blue ribbon board of trustees to carry out Cintas’ wishes for a foundation. Early members of the board included Theodore Rousseau (curator of the Metropolitan Museum of Art), Porter A. McCray (director of the International Program at New York’s Museum of Modern Art) and A. Hyatt Mayor (curator of prints at the Metropolitan Museum of Art).\n\nThe foundation’s original name, the Cuban Art Foundation, was changed in 1962 to honor its founder. The Cintas' legacy has fostered the development of Cuban artists, promoting the professional development of these artists and the continuity of Cuban traditions in art. Cintas' foresight has resulted in more than 300 fellowships and grants to creative writers, architects, composers, visual artists and filmmakers, many of whom have later achieved national and international renown. The roster of Cintas fellows is a testament to the talent and creativity of the Cubans and their direct descendants who have live throughout the world. The Cintas Foundation is the oldest entity in the United States dedicated to the support of Cuban artists.\n\nIn addition to the fellowships, the CINTAS Foundation oversees two major art collections in the United States and sponsors exhibitions curated from these collections. The CINTAS Fellows collection is composed of works donated by the fellows in appreciation of the CINTAS fellowship. It has grown to be the largest body of Cuban art outside Cuba and continues to grow regularly.\n\nThe CINTAS Foundation awards fellowships annually to creative artists of Cuban lineage.\n\nThe CINTAS Foundation was established with funds from the estate of Cintas. CINTAS Fellowships acknowledge demonstrated creative accomplishments and encourage the development of creative artists in architecture, literature, music composition and the visual arts. Past recipients include the Pulitzer Prize–winning novelist Oscar Hijuelos, the playwright Maria Irene Fornes, painters Carlos Alfonzo and Emilio Falero, the photographer Andres Serrano, the architect Andrés Duany, the poet Silvia Curbelo, sculptors María Elena González and Rafael Consuegra, as well as the composer Orlando Garcia.\n\n"}
{"id": "41672204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41672204", "title": "Patrick Corrigan (businessman)", "text": "Patrick Corrigan (businessman)\n\nPatrick Corrigan, AM (born 9 September 1932), is an Australian businessman, art collector, jazz enthusiast and philanthropist.\n\nCorrigan was born at Hangkow (now Hankou, part of the city of Wuhan), central China, to British parents Leonard and Amelie (née Wolnizer) Corrigan. Leonard Corrigan worked for the shipping conglomerate Jardine Matheson, one of the original Hong Kong trading houses or Hongs.\n\nIn 1935 the Corrigan family moved to Tientsin (now Tianjin), northern China. On 30 July 1937, Tientsin fell to Japan during the Second Sino-Japanese War, but was not occupied entirely as the Japanese continued to respect foreign concessions until 1941, when the United States entered the Second World War. Following rumours of Japan's imminent entrance into the War, the local British authorities encouraged evacuation of its citizens and the Corrigan family decided to seek refuge in Australia.\n\nCorrigan and his mother were granted a travel permit and left mainland China ahead of his father aboard the SS Fausang, which was captured in the Battle of Hong Kong on 8 December 1941, the same day as the attack on Pearl Harbor. Corrigan and his mother subsequently spent four years in the Stanley Internment Camp during the Japanese occupation of Hong Kong. Corrigan has reflected on his life at this time: the movie ‘\"Empire of the Sun\"' almost duplicates my life in the camp. I was the same age as the boy … and we did things that you see in 'Empire of the Sun' … we used to go under the barbed wire and steal vegetables from the Japanese vegetable garden and come back … it's just amazing, it's like watching yourself when you watch that movie.\n\nAfter the Japanese surrender in 1945, they were liberated by Australian Navy minesweeper personnel. Corrigan's father had also been interred in a POW camp on mainland China, near Beijing, and was liberated after the surrender.\n\nAfter the end of World War II the Australian government established the Federal Department of Immigration. The early policies of post-war immigration to Australia favoured British and Baltic nationals. In 1946, Corrigan and his mother sailed to Australia on the SS \"Tamaroa\" along with other liberated military POWs, and the family was finally reunited.\n\nAs displaced persons the family resided in a migrant hostel in St Mary's, Sydney until their immigration paperwork was finalised. Having lost his place at Sydney's Cranbrook High School due to the war, Corrigan and his family moved initially to Springwood where he attended the Blue Mountains Grammar School. He completed his Intermediate Certificate examination in 1948 at the age of 15, after which he left school to take up employment at a Unilever subsidiary.\n\nOn 19 September 1950 Corrigan joined the Royal Australian Naval reserve and served three years. He was granted Australian citizenship in 1960.\n\nCorrigan is married to Barbara Lawrence and has four children: David, Kylie, Joel (deceased 1996), Ryan, and two grandchildren.\n\nCorrigan left school in 1948 at the age of fifteen to work for a Unilever subsidiary where he was employed as a junior clerk in a freight subdivision. In a 2012 interview Corrigan reflected that he's \"been stuck with it ever since\". His career in freight forwarding has often led to confusion with stevedore magnate Chris Corrigan, the former CEO of Patrick Corporation. They are unrelated, and when quizzed on this point Corrigan is always keen to point out that he is the \"poorer one\".\n\nIn 1955 Corrigan became general manager of the Sydney customs brokering firm J N Campbell Customs Pty Ltd. He remained with the company until 1967, when he established his own freight forwarding and clearance company, Corrigan's Customs Agency Pty Ltd for a $2 registration fee and a $1,000 bank loan.\n\nIn the early years, Corrigan's freight forwarding and clearance companies specialised in shipping fashion, textiles and auxiliary machinery for clients such as Kolotex Pty Ltd, Hilton Pty Ltd and Mark Foys Ltd, as well as yachts, which reflected his personal interest in water sports. In the late 1960s and early 1970s Corrigan's companies also brokered the import/export of works of art for commercial exhibitions, as well as book and records for clients such as Hamlyn Pty Ltd, which coincided with the development of his collecting interests in these areas.\n\nCorrigan's Customs Agency Pty Ltd changed its name to Corrigan's Express Pty Ltd in 1970, expanding its operations and profile with the opening of a large $90,000 freight clearance centre near Sydney airport and accreditation by the International Air Transport Association (IATA), membership of which was highly vetted and usually restricted to airlines. The same year it was reported in the press that Corrigan's successfully imported the largest ever painting to Australia – \"American Dream\", an 80 x 18 ft work by Brett Whiteley weighing 2.5 tons – for exhibition at Bonython Gallery. In 1970 he also co-founded the firm Express Livestock Pty Ltd, which specialised exclusively in animal cargo.\n\nCorrigan's Express was sold to the British conglomerate Mitchell Cotts & Co Ltd in 1972 and Corrigan remained as chairman until 1983, when he was recruited to establish the local arm of Swiss company, Panalpina, which specialised in forwarding and logistics services. In 1987 Panalpina became the number one IATA accredited agent in NSW.\n\nIn 1988, Corrigan founded a new company, Pace Express, and became its executive chairman. In its first year the company achieved the top ranking for export freight forwarding by the IATA, which stemmed from its logistics initiatives in the fresh fruit market. In 1989 the company won the Governor of Victoria Export Awards for significant achievement by a new exporter, and was also named the Exporter of the Year for Transport and Associated Services in the Export Council of Australia's Premier's NSW Export Awards. This was the first time any company had won both major awards in one year and the first time a freight forwarder had won either.\n\nIn 1993 Pace Express was acknowledged by the IATA as being the first Australian agent to receive a settlement of more than $2 million for freight forwarding billing in a single month. In 1994 Pace Express was acquired by the American company Air Express International and Corrigan was appointed as director.\n\nIn 1998 Corrigan joined VIP Airfreight as chairman, a company that made its mark specialising in handling perishables. In 2000 Corrigan was awarded the Export Council of Australia's prestigious Export Hero award, which recognises and congratulates \"the champions of Australia's export community having contributed to building modern export enterprises and helping to further develop a uniquely Australian export culture\".\n\nCorrigan was chairman and co-owner of Century Freight (2006–2009). Corrigan is chairman of UBI Logistics, which was established in 2009, and holds two public company non-executive directorships: Flagship Investments Ltd and Global Masters Fund Ltd.\n\nAt various periods concurrent with his business career in the freight industry, Corrigan's personal interests in art and books has led him to take on commercial ventures in these fields [also see section on art and book publishing].\n\nDuring the 1980s Corrigan was a partner in the Bonython Meadmore Gallery (BMG) in Sydney and Adelaide.\n\nFrom 1987 to 2002 Corrigan was a director and partner in Woollahra Art Removals, which was acquired by International Art Services. Corrigan is chairman of Corrigan's Art Express, a division of UBI Logistics.\n\nIn 2012 he acquired Better Read Than Dead, a large independent bookstore in Sydney's vibrant multi-cultural neighbourhood of Newtown, for which he is co-director.\n\nAustralian art and books were the focus of Corrigan's early collecting interests, born from his shipping company's activities freighting for Bonython Galleries and Paul Hamlyn Books. Corrigan developed friendships with artists he met in the Art & Australia offices of Hamlyn publisher Kevin Weldon. He began to seriously acquire works of art in the early 1970s and by late that decade Corrigan's collecting was supported by a scholarly Australian art book collection, which began with the purchase of his first book in 1974.\n\nCorrigan's art book collection was sold to James Hardie Industries in 1979, and he remained a consultant to the collection for the next nine years. It became the core of a donation to the State Library of Queensland in 1988, which is now known as the James Hardie Library of Australian Fine Arts and which has been described as \"Australia's definitive fine arts collection\". This collection includes several important 'firsts' in Australian art publishing:\n\nCorrigan continues to support the State Library of Queensland with donations to the Library of Australian Fine Art, along with major donations of other material. His most notable donation was the collection of letters and manuscripts by the artist Norman Lindsay and his family, which was valued in the late 1990s at well over $1 million. The Lindsay Collection of Pat Corrigan, donated 1992–1997, is one of the largest donations ever made by an individual to an Australian library. The collection includes published and unpublished material relating to the Lindsay family and, importantly, significant material purchased from Harry Chaplin's collection, a friend and bibliographer of the family.\n\nAlongside the Lindsay Collection donation, Corrigan also collected manuscripts and other material and original works of art by other artists, which were subsequently also donated to the State Library of Queensland. These include:\n\nIn addition, Corrigan has donated personal correspondence with artists he has supported over the years, including many of those assisted over twelve years as patron of the National Association for the Visual Arts Visual and Craft Artists' Grant Scheme. [see section on philanthropy]\n\nCorrigan has also donated a major collection of Australian art exhibition catalogues, invitations and journals to the Queensland Art Gallery of Modern Art. Known as \"The Patrick Corrigan Collection of Australian Exhibition Catalogues\", the collection comprises over 800 items dated 1889–2008. Highlights include:\n\nAn interest in art and books also led to Corrigan collecting artist bookplates, which he acquired over a twenty-year period between 1975 and 1995, following the acquisition of the collection of John Lane Mullins (1857–1939), an avid enthusiast and supporter who had commissioned the first Australian pictorial bookplate. In the late 1990s he acquired the bookplate collection of the late Harry Muir, founder of Adelaide's Wakefield Press.\n\nDescribed as \"the most comprehensive collection of bookplates by Australian artists ever amassed\", \"The Pat Corrigan Collection of Australian Artists' Bookplates\", comprising five thousand plates and related objects, including original artwork, transitional states of the plate and original blocks, was donated to the Art Gallery of New South Wales in 1995, valued at $750,000.\n\nCorrigan has also made significant bookplate donations to the National Gallery of Australia (1983), Powerhouse Museum, Sydney (2009), the State Libraries of Queensland and Victoria (which included original works of art and publications on bookplates), the Fryer Library University of Queensland (2002) and regional art galleries at Benalla (2004), Bendigo (2001), Castlemaine (1999), the Gold Coast and Lismore (2006), Maitland and MacKay (2005), Orange and Toowoomba, and New England (2001).\n\nCorrigan also supported artists through bookplate commissions for his family. In this context, he introduced the concept of Ex Libris to many artists who would not otherwise have been represented in this genre. Corrigan's family commissions included bookplates by: Earle Backen (1927–2005), William Rubery Bennett (1893–1987), Peter Shearwin Chapman (born 1937), John Coburn (1925–2006), L. Roy Davies (1897–1979), Brian Dunlop (1938–2009), Joel Elenberg (1948–1980), Allan Allman Gamble (1907–2001), Bruce Goold (born 1948), Peter Vernon Hickey (born 1943), Robert Jacks (born 1943), Peter Kingston (born 1943), Alun Leach-Jones (born 1937), David van Nunen (born 1952), Pixie O’Harris (1903–1991), David Lloyd Preston (born 1948), Lloyd Frederic Rees (1895–1988), Irena Justina Sibley (1944–2009), Blake Lawry Twigden (born 1945), Brett Whiteley (1939–1992) and James Willem Willbrant (born 1950).\n\nIn his book on Corrigan's collections and commissions of bookplates, Robert Littlewood describes Corrigan's focus on Ex Libris bookplates as having “significant impact in the marketplace … on the aesthetic direction of contemporary bookplates; and … influenced curatorial consciousness and activity in relation to this aspect of the Book Arts”. The latter, in particular, is borne out in a recent article published by the magazine of the National Library of Australia, which featured several of the Corrigan family's bookplates. In a 2013 exhibition of the New Australian Bookplate society, Corrigan was credited amongst a small and select group as rekindling Australia's interest in the art.\n\nCorrigan has collected Australian art from around 1970 when his company, Corrigan's Express, started freighting works of art and books. Through connections made at the offices of Hamlyn Books' publication Art in Australia, he met artists such as John Coburn, Brett Whiteley, Pro Hart and Neil Taylor, and collectors such as Neil Balnaves. His first purchase was a Paddington street (Sydney) scene by Ric Elliot. Of his approach to collecting, Corrigan has stated that he has bought works by artists and then sold them to friends for the same price, just to spread the word. Corrigan also constantly deaccessions from his collection through donations to public institutions. Since 1986 he has donated over one thousand works to more than forty-five Cultural Gift Recipients nationwide.\n\nArtists whose works Corrigan has collected include Christian Thompson, Grace Cossington Smith, Charles Blackman, Arthur Boyd, Alun Leach-Jones, Colin Lanceley, Brett Whiteley, Lloyd Rees, John Olsen, Rosalie Gascoigne, John Beard, Ben Quilty, Noel McKenna, Susan Norrie, Ken Whisson, Robert Klippel, John Coburn, Janet Laurence, Clement Meadmore, Tim Storrier, Gordon Bennett and Michael Zavros.\n\nCorrigan's photography collection includes works by Tracey Moffatt, Bill Henson, Christian Thompson, Max Dupain, Olive Cotton, Mervyn Bishop, Harold Cazneaux, Mark Kimber, Robert McFarlane, Selina Ou, Roger Scott, Caleb Carter, Geoff Carter, Greg Weight, Jon Lewis, Graham McCarter, Lewis Morley, David Moore, Robyn Stacey, Anne Zahalka, Patricia Piccinini, Simryn Gill, Deborah Paauwe and Polixeni Papapetrou.\n\nCorrigan's enthusiasm for collecting art is paralleled with his enthusiasm for sharing it with the broader public. His total collection is estimated to be around two thousand works and at the time of publication of his third book on his Indigenous art collection (2015) he had over six hundred and fifty works on long-term loan to multiple public institutions and universities in states where he has residences. These institutions include Bond University, the University of Technology, University of NSW Art & Design, and SBS Television in Sydney (NSW), as well as Monash University and Asialink in Melbourne (VIC) and the Australian National University (ACT).\n\nCorrigan's donations to Bond University's Medical School are now being publicly showcased in The Corrigan Walk, an on-campus guided tour of a selection of the donations and 400-strong works in the loan collection, led by indigenous students.\n\nAt any given time, Corrigan also has works pending and/or already on loan to public exhibitions around the country.\n\nSelect Indigenous photography loans to public institution exhibitions:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nPublic exhibitions dedicated to works from the Corrigan collection:\n\nSince the 1990s Corrigan committed to only buying works by living artists, where he could enjoy the support he was giving the artist as well as the works themselves. Since 2000, he has concentrated on contemporary Indigenous and non-Indigenous art and photography, the former being the subject of two books on the collection.\n\nCorrigan is also a supporter of institutions fostering photography, and is a \"Supporting Sponsor\" of the \"Salon\", an open entry exhibition and competition organised by Melbourne's Centre for Contemporary Photography .\n\nCorrigan's Indigenous art collection is developed exclusively from works painted from 2000. An extensive component of his total collection, numbering around 1,000 works, it has been the subject of three books:\n\nSelect public exhibitions featuring works from the Indigenous collection:\n\n\nCorrigan's love of art and books led him to venture into publishing, in tandem with his freight business interests. He supported Richard Griffin (1937–1991), the Sydney bookseller, publisher and owner of Gryphon Press, with financial guarantees for the publication of his Private Press' limited edition art books on the work of Brett Whiteley: \"Zoo\" (1979), \"Another Way of Looking at Vincent Van Gogh\" (1983) and \"Native Rose\" (1986), which was based upon Ernest Giles's story of his explorations in Central Australia. Each book contained an original print by the artist. His company, Southern Cross Books, also published \"Carmen\" by Prosper Mérimée, with illustrations by Lionel Lindsay (1984). He also supported Port Jackson Press for a time.\n\nCorrigan continues to support independent publications through sponsorship, the most recent being \"Brushes with History: Masters of Watercolour\", produced by the Australian Watercolour Institute in March 2015 to celebrate its ninetieth anniversary.\n\nCorrigan's printmaking ventures date to the same period. He shared an office/studio/gallery with Storrier for three years in Sydney's Rushcutters Bay, during which time he met many leading Australian artists. Over the course of this period Corrigan published Tim Storrier's limited edition 'Time Site Suite' (1981), which was a portfolio of seven lithographs, colour photographs and mixed media works in a limited edition of sixty. Corrigan also published a suite of hand coloured etchings titled 'Birds from a Woollahra Garden' by Blake Twigden (1982), and produced four silkscreen prints and the soft ground etching, 'Bay at Northwood' (1984) by Lloyd Rees.\n\nIn a period in the late 1980s Corrigan was also part owner of Craftsman House and was instrumental in the publication of books on the work of several artists: \"Colin Lanceley\" (1987), \"Lloyd Rees, An Artist Remembers\" (1987), \"Point to Point, the Art of Tim Storrier\" (1987), \"John Coburn, Paintings\" (1988), and \"Alun Leach-Jones\" (1988).\n\nIn addition to major donations of art, books and material heritage collections to public institutions [see Collecting Activities section], Corrigan has donated more than one thousand works of art to over forty-five regional galleries, cultural institutions and charitable organisations across the country.\n\nRecipient Institutions\n\nQueensland: Bond University; Gold Coast Art Centre; Gold Coast City Art Gallery; Queensland Art Gallery; Queensland Library Foundation; State Library of Queensland; University of Queensland; University of Queensland Art Museum\n\nNew South Wales: Artbank; Art Gallery of New South Wales; Art Gallery Society of New South Wales; Australian Business Arts Foundation; Australian National Maritime Museum; Campbelltown City Bicentennial Art Gallery; Cessnock Regional Art Gallery; Kedumba Trust for the Kedumba Collection of Australian Drawings; Lismore Regional Art Gallery; Maitland Regional Art Gallery; Mosman Art Gallery; Museum of Contemporary Art; National Art School; National Association for the Visual Arts,; New England Regional Art Museum; Newcastle Regional Art Gallery; Orange Regional Gallery; Power Institute, University of Sydney; Powerhouse Museum; Sculpture by the Sea; St Vincent's Curran Foundation; State Library of NSW; Tweed River Valley Regional Art Gallery; University of New South Wales; University of Technology, Sydney; Variety, the Children's Charity\n\nAustralian Capital Territory: Australian National University; National Gallery of Australia; National Library of Australia; National Portrait Gallery\n\nVictoria: Bendigo Art Gallery; Castlemaine Art Gallery and Historical Museum; Centre for Contemporary Photography; Horsham Regional Art Gallery; La Trobe University Library; Monash Gallery of Art; National Gallery of Victoria; Peter MacCullum Cancer Centre; State Library of Victoria\n\nSouth Australia: Art Gallery of South Australia\n\nIn his role as Board member and Chairman of the Gold Coast City Art Gallery (QLD), Corrigan has encouraged many other major collectors to donate to the gallery in the guise of a self-termed \"sophisticated beggar\", which has significantly increased the worth of the gallery's art collection and earned him the status of 'Life Benefactor', bestowed in 2007. Many of these donations were showcased in the exhibition \"Gifted\" in the same year. In addition, Corrigan was instrumental in the expansion of loans to the Gallery's \"Evandale Sculpture Walk\", a sculpture park on the gallery's grounds on the site of the old Evandale farm. Corrigan has also applied his influence to secure philanthropic donations for Bond University, which was recognised by an Honorary Doctorate conferred in 2007.\n\nStudent scholarships\n\nCorrigan has initiated and funded many philanthropic causes to support the career possibilities of artists, musicians and Indigenous students with scholarships and grant programs.\n\nCorrigan initiated the \"Mitchell Cotts Art Awards\", City Art Institute (now College of Fine Arts, Sydney) in 1982, which bestowed two annual awards to the value of $10–15,000 enabling young artists to continue their studies and to travel to broaden their experience.\n\nIn 1997 Corrigan inaugurated the \"Pat Corrigan Travelling Art Scholarship\" for painting students at Sydney's National Art School. The inaugural winner was Alan Jones, who referenced the importance of this support in his artist's statement for his 2013 Archibald Prize entry, a portrait of Patrick Corrigan called \"Corro\". Since 1997 Corrigan has also been principal sponsor of the National Art School's annual photographic prize (the Joel Corrigan Memorial Photography Award), which is awarded to third year graduates in the medium.\n\nCorrigan is Co-Patron of the National Association for the Visual Arts along with Janet Holmes à Court and supported an artists' grant scheme bestowed in his name from 1990–2005. Over this time he donated $12,500 per annum to support a program that subsidised exhibition costs for more than 1,000 emerging artists and craftspeople. In 2012/2013, an exhibition of work of art by select recipients of the grant called \"Inspiring artists: recipients of the Pat Corrigan Artists' Grant\" was held at Maitland Regional Art Gallery (NSW).\n\nSince 2007 the \"Pat Corrigan Musicians and Arts Fund\" has supported two emerging jazz musicians per annum. Young musicians attending the Generations in Jazz annual music festival in Mount Gambier, South Australia are eligible for a grant of $3,500, and the \"Pat Corrigan Scholarship\", awarded through the Sydney-based Jazz Workshop Australia, includes the production of a professional recording for the recipient.\n\nIndigenous\n\nCorrigan is the patron of the annual Bond University Indigenous Art Auction, which raises funds to expand the range of Indigenous scholarships available at the university. From its inception in 2010 through 2016, the Indigenous Gala raised over $1.3 million towards Indigenous scholarships and supporting the university's work with the Australian Indigenous Mentoring Experience.\n\nCorrigan also served on the board of the Aboriginal Benefits Foundation, which works to benefit the welfare of Aboriginal communities throughout Australia, in particular with regard to supporting youth, the aged and others who suffer disadvantages.\n\nArt industry acknowledgment\n\nCorrigan's philanthropy has earned him entry to The Art Life's annual list of the most powerful people in Australian art, \"The Power Trip\" in 2015, 2016 and 2017. A portrait of Corrigan also featured in the 2015 Mosman Art Gallery exhibition, \"Art - Maker, Patron, Lover: Photographs by Gary Grearly\".\n\nSince receiving his AM in 2000, Corrigan has been a regular sitter for the Archibald Prize, and has had his portrait make the finals four times: in 2006(artist Paul Newton), 2013, 2016 (artist Alan Jones), and 2018 (artist Joanna Braithwaite). The Prize, administered by the Art Gallery of New South Wales, stipulates that the subject must be a person 'distinguished in Art, Letters, Science or Politics', painted from life.\n\nCorrigan's art donation philanthropy was recently profiled in an in-depth feature in print media (The Daily Telegraph and The Wentworth Courier), titled 'How Pat Corrigan gives away one of Australia's great art collections'\n\nSports\n\nCorrigan has had a lifelong passion for Rugby union, terming himself a \"rugby tragic\", and is the sole sponsor of the National Portrait Gallery of Australia's annual photography commission of 'Australian Rugby Greats'. Known formally as the \"Patrick Corrigan Portrait Commission Series\", the first rugby great commission (2014) was of Ken Catchpole OAM by Gary Grearly, and the second commission (2015) was of Indigenous champion, Mark Ella AM by Nikki Toole. The third commission (2016) features Dr Mark Loane AM, by Joachim Froese.\n\nCorrigan has also held a lifelong interest in water sports and maintains residences in Sydney's eastern suburbs and Queensland's Gold Coast, where he has been able to indulge his love of jet skiing and sailing, and where he has sponsored surf boats for Surf Lifesaving Clubs in Bronte and Surfers Paradise, where he also founded the Gold Coast Jet Ski Club.\n\nSince 1969 Corrigan has sponsored racing skiffs in the 18 footer sailing class through his companies Corrigan's Express, Mitchell Cotts and Pace Express, winning two World Championships in 1988 and 1996 and the European Championship the same year. In 1976 and 1976 Corrigan was also Principal Sponsor of Australia's entries in the USA Congressional Cup. Corrigan ended his 18 Footers sponsorship in 1999 and, as at 2006, remained the sport's longest continuous sponsor. His commitment was rewarded with the bestowal of Life Member of the New South Wales 18 Footers Sailing League.\n\nMemorabilia\n\nCorrigan's interest in sailing stimulated his interest in America's Cup memorabilia. Corrigan's lifelong interest in memorabilia is very broad, leading to more than 500 collections of diverse material. Most notable among these is his collection of signed photographs by famous stars, including Lauren Bacall, Sophia Loren, Mickey Rooney and Tony Curtis. This collection was donated to the Maitland Regional Art Gallery and was the subject of the exhibition \"Signed and Famous\" in 2012.\n\nJazz\n\nCorrigan's love of jazz dates to 1945, after arriving in Sydney following his release from the internment camp when he heard the radio for the first time in years. He credits getting hooked on jazz through the likes of Glenn Miller, Tommy Dorsey, Artie Shaw, Woody Herman and Frank Sinatra. \"There was a blackout on news, so when I came here I had not heard music for years ... the next thing I knew, I had a collection of 78s. I ended up with 7,000 of them\". This collection, which was augmented by magazines such as \"Down Beat\" and \"Metronome\", along with jazz biographies (many signed by luminaries such as Duke Ellington), was donated to the National Film and Sound Archive in 1980.\n\nCorrigan stated that jazz \"galvanised my love of the arts\" and this mix of interests found expression in philanthropic support for a series of concerts under the banner, \"Jazz at the Gallery\", held at the Art Gallery of New South Wales over the past five years, and the \"Flights of Jazz\" series of three concerts in 2002. In September and October 2013 he teamed up with Deloitte to support two concerts for the Art Gallery Society of New South Wales' \"Resonate\" series.\n\nAside from his philanthropic efforts for aspiring students of jazz music [see Philanthropy section], Corrigan has also supported jazz musicians through commissioned performances at personal functions and fundraising events, such as for the Gold Coast City Art Gallery. He is also a Life Member of the Gold Coast local community radio station 94.1FM. and the Gold Coast City Jazz Club\n\nAM: Corrigan was awarded the Member of the Order of Australia medal in the 2000 Queen's Birthday Honours List (conferred 12 June 2000) for \"service to the visual arts, particularly as a philanthropist to regional galleries and through a grant scheme for artists\".\n\nQueensland Greats: The Queensland Greats Awards program honours individuals and institutions whose long-term or lifetime achievements have played a significant role in the history and development of Queensland. In recognition of his sustained support for and contributions to Bond University and many other Queensland cultural institutions, the Queensland Government conferred this award upon Corrigan in 2014.\n\nThe award includes a commemorative plaque in Brisbane's Roma Street Parklands.\n\nKeys to the City: Gold Coast City Council conferred the city's highest honour on Corrigan in 2015 in recognition of his contribution to the arts.\n\nHonorary Doctorate: In recognition of his sustained support for and patronage of the visual arts, and in particular, Aboriginal art, Bond University conferred an honorary doctorate upon Corrigan in 2007.\n\nJB Were Philanthropy Leadership Award: In 2012 Corrigan was the recipient of the Australian Business Arts Foundation's (now Creative Partnerships Australia) JB Were Philanthropy Leadership Award, which is bestowed on an individual, family, group or foundation or other entity, which through their leadership, advocacy, practice and example has encouraged increased philanthropic giving to Australia's cultural life.\n\nState and national institutions: Life Benefactor, the State Library of Queensland (Brisbane); Patron, the Queensland Library Foundation (Brisbane); Life Benefactor, the Art Gallery of New South Wales Library (Sydney); Gold Benefactor, the Art Gallery of New South Wales (Sydney); Life Patron, National Association for the Visual Arts(Sydney); Foundation Member, National Gallery of Victoria (Melbourne); Patron, Queensland Art Gallery (Brisbane)\n\nRegional galleries: Life Member, Ararat Regional Art Gallery (VIC); Life Member, Art Gallery Society of New South Wales (Sydney); Life Member, the Ballarat Fine Art Gallery Association (VIC); Life Member, Bendigo Art Gallery (VIC); Life Member, Castlemaine Art Gallery & Historical Museum (VIC); Life Member, Friends of the Gold Coast Arts Centre (QLD); Life Member, Friends of the Mornington Peninsular Regional Gallery (VIC); Life Member, Friends of the National Art School (Sydney); Life Member, Lismore Regional Gallery (NSW); Co-Patron (with art collector Ray Wilson) and Life Member, Maitland Regional Art Gallery (NSW); Life Member, Newcastle Art Gallery Society (NSW)\n\nBoards and committees: Board Member, National Portrait Gallery of Australia, appointed February 2015; Emeritus Chairman of the Gold Coast City Gallery (QLD), appointed June 2016; director, Gold Coast City Gallery (1996-2016); board director of the Gold Coast Arts Centre (QLD); Chairman, Judging Panel, Qantas Foundation Encouragement of Australian Contemporary Art Award; Former board director, Aboriginal Benefactors Foundation; Former Member of the Tax Incentive for the Arts Review Committee for the federal government's Cultural Gifts Program\n"}
{"id": "6948923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6948923", "title": "Patrick Reynolds (activist)", "text": "Patrick Reynolds (activist)\n\nPatrick Cleveland Reynolds (born December 2, 1948) is an American anti-smoking activist and former actor.\n\nBorn in Miami Beach, Florida, he is the grandson of the tobacco company founder, R. J. Reynolds, and speaks of how he believes his family business has killed millions, including his own father, R. J. Reynolds, Jr., and half brother, R.J. Reynolds III (also known as Richard J Reynolds III). He is a frequent speaker on the dangers of smoking, and founded a non-profit organization dedicated to anti-tobacco campaigning.\n\nIn April 1986, Reynolds went with a friend to a meeting with Senator Robert Packwood, where the issue of a proposed cut in tobacco tax was raised. Outraged, Reynolds stood up and asked why US tobacco taxes were so low. By June 1986, Reynolds had become an anti-smoking activist, appearing in adverts for the American Lung Association and testifying before a congressional subcommittee at the invitation of Packwood, to the dismay of his family. He had already sold his tobacco stock in 1979, and tried to get hired by RJR Nabisco Inc. from 1983–85, in an attempt to get the company to divest their tobacco holding. Reynolds was himself a smoker for 17 years until he quit in 1985 after over 10 years of trying. He has appeared on many national television programs.\n\nIn 1989, Reynolds founded The Foundation for a Smokefree America. That same year, Reynolds published \"The Gilded Leaf\" with Thomas Shachtman, chronicling three generations of his family and its tobacco business, a book he had been working on since 1980. The book was re-issued in 2006 (). In 2007 he released an educational video on DVD of a tobacco prevention talk he gave titled The Truth About Tobacco.\n\nFormer Surgeon General, C. Everett Koop M.D., called him \"one of the nation's most influential advocates of a smokefree America.\" He continues to speak on tobacco control to adult groups, and also gives motivational prevention talks before high school and elementary school audiences. He advised the Greek government on anti-smoking measures in 2009, and in 2011 was seeking sponsorship for a world tour.\n\nRelative to the friction within his family over his public campaign, he said in 2011 it has eased. \"[S]ince 1986, the price of the stock kept going up. And as far as being an embarrassment, I received an award from the World Health Organization; I brought honor to the Reynolds family.\"\n\nHis mother was his father's second wife, actress Marianne O'Brien who appeared in the 1940s in films like \"The Very Thought of You\", contracted to Jack L. Warner. His parents separated when he was three and he did not meet his father again until he was nine. His father died five years later from emphysema aged 64, leaving a will that disinherited Patrick and his brother and four half-brothers. He received $500,000 from his father's fourth wife in agreement not to contest the will. He inherited $2.5 million from his grandfather in 1969, when he was 21.\n\nHaving attended The Hotchkiss School, Reynolds studied filmmaking at the University of California and the University of Southern California. He ventured into acting in 1975, during a visit to the set of \"Nashville\". His live-in girlfriend, actress Shelley Duvall, had invited him to the set, and director Robert Altman cast him in a small non-speaking role. Reynolds subsequently studied acting at several Los Angeles schools; with Milton Katselas, classmates included Michelle Pfeiffer and Patrick Swayze. At the urging of his voice coach, he recorded three unreleased pop singles in 1982. He married his first wife Regina Wahl in Ofterschwang, West Germany in July 1983, quit acting and briefly began working for her father's international bus company. He returned to acting after being offered a lead role in \"Eliminators\". His mother died in 1985. In 1986, he spoke out publicly for the first time against the tobacco industry. He remarried in 2007, and lives in Los Angeles with his wife Alexandra and their son, born in October 2009.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40728440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40728440", "title": "Presidential committee on young generation", "text": "Presidential committee on young generation\n\n\"The Presidential Committee on Young Generation (PCYG)\" is an advisory board that is directly affiliated to the president of the Republic of Korea. It is led by Minwoo Nam, head of the Korea Venture Business Association and CEO of Dasan Networks. The committee, established on July 13, 2013, advises the President on Young Generation (YG) issues such as job creation, communications with the YG, and policy making.\n\nPresidential decree on the establishment of the PCYG \n\nThe committee was formed to strengthen communications between the government and the young generation (YG), to make policy-making processes for the YG more effective. The government has defined the YG as those aged between 19~39. The major role of the committee, is to advise the president about policy-making issues on the YG. Having ‘Field, People, and Collective Labour’ as its main theme for the operation, the committee also takes a role as a mediator between the government departments throughout the policy-making processes related to YG issues.\n\nThe PCYG has two divisions; the \"committee board\" and the \"working group\". The committee board consists of 24 members, including nineteen civilian and five governmental members. The members include young leaders with wide experience in various fields, including young entrepreneurs, international volunteers and mentoring activities. The committee board has three sub-committees, whose titles are shown in the organizational structure on the right-hand side. The working group is divided into the two teams, ‘policy team’ and ‘communications team.’\nThe PCYG functions in the following three areas;\n\nThe PCYG collects voices from the YG in various fields and discusses the raised issues. It then gathers opinions from the government departments on the issues and mediates between them to report to the president. After the reports, it monitors policy practices executed by the departments and receives feedback from them.\n\nPresidential Committee on Young Generation\n12th floor, KT Building, Sejong-roh 100, Jongno-gu, Seoul.\n\nPCYG webpage \n"}
{"id": "340478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=340478", "title": "RFM (customer value)", "text": "RFM (customer value)\n\nRFM is a method used for analyzing customer value. It is commonly used in database marketing and direct marketing and has received particular attention in retail and professional services industries.\n\nRFM stands for the three dimensions:\n\nCustomer purchases may be represented by a table with columns for the customer name, date of purchase and purchase value. One approach to RFM is to assign a score for each dimension on a scale from 1 to 10. The maximum score represents the preferred behavior and a formula could be used to calculate the three scores for each customer. For example, a service-based business could use these calculations:\n\n\nAlternatively, categories can be defined for each attribute. For instance, Recency might be broken into three categories: customers with purchases within the last 90 days; between 91 and 365 days; and longer than 365 days. Such categories may be derived from business rules or using data mining techniques to find meaningful breaks.\n\nOnce each of the attributes has appropriate categories defined, segments are created from the intersection of the values. If there were three categories for each attribute, then the resulting matrix would have twenty-seven possible combinations (one well-known commercial approach uses five bins per attributes, which yields 125 segments). Companies may also decide to collapse certain subsegments, if the gradations appear too small to be useful. The resulting segments can be ordered from most valuable (highest recency, frequency, and value) to least valuable (lowest recency, frequency, and value). Identifying the most valuable RFM segments can capitalize on chance relationships in the data used for this analysis. For this reason, it is highly recommended that another set of data be used to validate the results of the RFM segmentation process.\nAdvocates of this technique point out that it has the virtue of simplicity: no specialized statistical software is required, and the results are readily understood by business people. In the absence of other targeting techniques, it can provide a lift in response rates for promotions.\n\nCustomer segments containing weighted RFM scores and demographic data in the same clusters conclude stronger and more accurate association rules to understand the customer behavior and customer value. \n\nRFD – Recency, Frequency, Duration is a modified version of RFM analysis that can be used to analyze consumer behavior of viewership/readership/surfing oriented business products. (For example, amount of time spent by surfers on Wikipedia)\n\nRFE – Recency, Frequency, Engagement is a broader version of the RFD analysis, where \"Engagement\" can be defined to include visit duration, pages per visit or other such metrics. It can be used to analyze consumer behavior of viewership/readership/surfing oriented business products. (For example, amount of time spent by surfers on Wikipedia)\n\nRFM-I – Recency, Frequency, Monetary Value – Interactions is a version of RFM framework modified to account for recency and frequency of marketing interactions with the client (e.g. to control for possible deterring effects of very frequent advertising engagements).\n\nRFMTC – Recency, Frequency, Monetary Value, Time, Churn rate an augmented RFM model proposed by I-Cheng et al. (2009). The model utilizes Bernoulli sequence in probability theory and creates formulas that calculate the probability of a customer buying at the next promotional or marketing campaign. The model has been implemented by Alexandros Ioannidis for datasets such as the Blood Transfusion and CDNOW data sets.\n\n"}
{"id": "53108739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53108739", "title": "Reinold Geiger", "text": "Reinold Geiger\n\nReinold Geiger (born July 1947) is an Austrian billionaire, and the chairman and CEO of French cosmetics retailer L'Occitane en Provence.\n\nReinold Geiger was born in July 1947, and received a bachelor's degree in engineering from the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Zürich, in 1969, and an MBA degree from INSEAD, Geneva in 1976.\n\nGeiger is married, and lives in Geneva, Switzerland.\n"}
{"id": "1726414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1726414", "title": "Robert Goodloe Harper", "text": "Robert Goodloe Harper\n\nRobert Goodloe Harper (January 1765January 14, 1825), a Federalist, was a member of the United States Senate from Maryland, serving from January 1816 until his resignation in December of the same year. He also served in the South Carolina House of Representatives (1790–1795), the U.S. House of Representatives from South Carolina (1795–1801), and in the Maryland State Senate. He is best remembered for the phrase, \"Millions for defense, but not one cent for tribute\" in connection with the XYZ Affair. The town of Harper, Liberia is named after him.\n\nHarper, the fifth child and first son of Jesse Harper (1733 – ?) and Emily Diana Goodloe (1734–1788) was born near Fredericksburg, Virginia in January 1765 and moved with his parents to Granville, North Carolina around 1769. He received his early education at home and later attended grammar school. At the age of fifteen, Harper joined a volunteer corps of Cavalry and served in the American Revolutionary Army. He made a surveying tour through Kentucky and Tennessee in 1783, and graduated from the College of New Jersey (now Princeton University) in 1785. He studied law in Charleston, South Carolina, teaching school at the same time, and was admitted to the bar in 1786. He commenced practice in the Ninety-Sixth District of South Carolina, moving back to Charleston, S.C. in 1789.\n\nOn May 7, 1800, Harper married Catherine Carroll in Anne Arundel Co, Maryland, the daughter of Charles & Mary (Darnall) Carroll.\n\nRobert had a least 4 children with Catherine: \n\nHarper was a member of the South Carolina House of Representatives from 1790 until 1795, at which time he was elected from South Carolina to the Third Congress to fill the vacancy caused by the death of Alexander Gillon. He was reelected to the Fourth, Fifth, and Sixth Congresses but was an unsuccessful candidate for reelection in 1800 to the Seventh Congress, serving as a U.S Representative from February 9, 1795 to March 1801. While in Congress, he was the chairman of the Committee on Ways and Means in the Fifth and Sixth Congresses. Harper was one of the managers appointed by the House of Representatives in 1798 to conduct the impeachment proceedings against William Blount.\n\nHarper moved to Baltimore, Maryland, and engaged in the practice of law. He consorted with the men of the mob riots of Baltimore against the British in June 1812. He served in the War of 1812, attaining the rank of major general. He assisted in organizing the Baltimore Exchange Co. in 1815 and was a member of the first board of directors. He then became a member of the Maryland State Senate, and was later elected from Maryland to the United States Senate for the term beginning March 4, 1815, serving from January 1816 until December 1816, when he resigned. He was an unsuccessful Federalist candidate for Vice President in the 1816 election. He also received one electoral vote for Vice President in the 1820 election.\n\nHarper traveled extensively in Europe in 1819 and 1820. He took a prominent part in the ceremonies on the occasion of Lafayette’s visit to Baltimore in 1824. He died in Baltimore on January 14, 1825, and was initially interred in the family burial ground on his estate, Oakland in Roland Park, and later reburied in Greenmount Cemetery in Baltimore.\n\nElected a member of the American Antiquarian Society in 1815.\n"}
{"id": "45080589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45080589", "title": "Roberto Vignati", "text": "Roberto Vignati\n\nRoberto Vignati is an Argentinian businessman who gained prominence in 2014 when it was revealed that his firm Bioart SA had been selected by the Argentinian government to act as the sole intermediary in exports of rice and corn to Venezuela, and that it had made inordinate profits on the arrangement. \n\nMedia in both countries noted that Vignati enjoyed close ties to the administration of Argentinian President Cristina Fernández de Kirchner and that, prior to the export deal, which had gone into effect in 2013, his firm had been involved only in the retail sale of fertilizer and seeds.\n\nVignati is from the town of Arteaga in the department of Caseros, province of Santa Fe. \n\n\"Clarín\" has stated that according to some sources, Vignati's father fought on the Peronist left in the 1970, and Vignati used that fact to win the friendship of Planning Minister Julio De Vido.\n\nBioart SA was founded in 2009, but did not register as a grain wholesaler until November 2013. On paper, its owners were Vignati's sisters María Isabel and María Eugenia, but he was the company's public representative. \n\nVignati traveled to Caracas in February 2013 with Julio De Vido, Argentina's Minister of Planning, with the intention of offering the use of silos owned by Marisa, a firm in Arteaga owned by Vignati's mother's family. The apparent result of the visit, however, was that Bioart became a central player in grain export deals that would attract a great deal of criticism. \n\nIn May 2013, Argentina and Venezuela signed an agreement for the export of 80,000 tons of unprocessed rice. The governor of Entre Rios, Sergio Urribarri, said at the time that the sales would be carried out by rice farmers themselves, without intermediaries. He promised that the price charged to Venezuela would yield a profit, but the Pan Am Post later commented that “what rice producers did not know...was that the 'profitability'...would actually be for the middlemen, and not Argentina’s rice producers.” The alleged “middlemen” in the report were Vignati and his siblings, whose firm, Bioart SA, was granted sole permission by the Argentinian government to export rice to Venezuela. The firm ended up exporting the grain at an approximately 30% profit.\n\nThe directors of Fedenar, the national federation of Argentinian rice producers, warned in October 2013 of Bioart's intrusion in negotiations with Venezuela for rice exports. In January 2014, Fedenar filed complaints about Bioart's involvement, to no avail, with Argentinian Cabinet Chief Jorge Capitanich and Agriculture Minister Carlos Casamiquela. A complaint to Argentina's Ministry of Domestic Trade, which grants export permits, also had no effect. Later in January, Fedenar appealed to Urribarri, who promised to bring up the issue with President Cristina Fernandez de Kirchner; but nothing came to fruition. Fedenar complained that Bioart was not even a rice producer, questioning how a firm founded five years ago with no rice and corn export experience could gain such a lucrative deal.\n\nIn March 2014, the rice sector reacted with “astonishment” at Bioart's role in the export of rice. On June 16, 2014, 27,500 tons of rice, worth over U.S. $16 million, were shipped from the port of San Pedro.\n\nIn accordance with agreement with the Argentinian government, Bioart also had handled the export of more than 40,000 tons of corn to Venezuela at prices that were almost 80% higher than market value. The first shipment of corn took place on February 28, 2014, only fifteen days after Vignati met with María Gabriela Chávez, the daughter of Hugo Chávez, at the Argentinian embassy in Caracas. A second corn shipment took place on April 15, 2014.\n\nVignati was involved in an agricultural development project in Ecuador that began in September 2010 with talks involving senior officials in that country's government. Vignati's business representative in Ecuador, Gaston Duzac, told Ecuador's Minister of Production, Santiago Leon, that the initiative had been developed by Vignati's family firm Marisa, which Duzac identified as a subsidiary of Agroexportadora SA. The latter firm is officially owned by Jorge Bulgarelli, a lawyer who has longtime personal and business connections with the Vignati family. Duzac received an $800,000 loan from the Ecuadoran state bank, Cofiec, for which he turned out to have no guarantees; when Ecuadoran courts began to investigate the loan, they discovered that Duzac had fled the country with the money.\n\nVignati owns several other businesses. Caisa SRL sells agricultural supplies in Cruz Alta, a town near Arteaga. Inarg SA, a silo and machinery manufacturing firm, was established in April 2014. Rosart Desarollo SA, a real-estate firm, was founded in June 2014. In Bell Ville, Vignati owns a stud farm called Juan Antonio, which has over 40 thoroughbred race horses. In addition, as of July 2014, Vignati was still managing a sports club in Arteaga.\n\nIn addition to having expressed “deep admiration” on social networks for Néstor and Cristina Kirchner as well as for Hugo Chávez, Vignati participated in the 2013 presidential campaign of Nicolas Maduro of Venezuela.\n\nOn July 7, 2014, \"Clarín\" published a long article in which it revealed that Bioart SA, which it described as “a dubious company with ties to power,” had been exporting rice and corn from Argentina to Venezuela at intentionally inflated prices in accordance with a deal arranged by the Argentinian government. \"Clarín\" also noted the involvement in the deal of María Gabriela Chávez, Julio De Vido, and Argentina's ambassador to Venezuela, Carlos Cheppi. \"Clarín quoted\" the Cámara de Industriales Arroceros de Entre Ríos, a rice-growers' group, as saying that the Bioart deal was benefiting “a few entrepreneurs” in Argentina while hurting many other Argentinians. According to \"Clarín\", the rice industry was “furious” over the deal, under which they were paid a far lower rate for rice sold to Venezuela than their counterparts in Uruguay and Brazil.\n\n\"Clarín\"'s July 7 report identified Vignati as the “visible face” of Bioart, and said that he traveled often to Venezuela, had top connections with politicians, and had experienced significant financial gain. \n\nClarín's revelations attracted widespread attention. De Vido rejected all accusations of corruption, denying that Bioart S.A or any Vignati family members had any business connections to him. He continued also denying any connection to the Venezuelan government.\nThe Spanish daily \"El Mundo\" reported that María Gabriela Chávez, owing to her apparent role in arranging the Bioart rice deal, had been dubbed the “queen of rice” on social media.\n\n\"Clarín\" reported on July 28, 2014, that although the selection of Bioart as the sole intermediary in the sale of rice to Venezuela could be considered an instance of anti-competitive practices, as defined by the National Commission for Protection of Competition (CNDC), that organization was not likely to criticize the arrangement, because the president of the CNDC, Ricardo Napolitani, is a close friend of Vignati's and has been referred to as an obedient servant of the Kirchner dynasty. Indeed, far from criticizing Vignati, Napolitani was his “protector,” \"Clarín\" was told by one source. Clarín also noted links between Vignati and other individuals in the Kirchner circle.\n\nIn mid July 2014, opposition Venezuelan legislators Abelardo Díaz and Homero Ruíz filed corruption and fraud charges with the Public Prosecutor of Caracas in connection with Vignati's inflated prices. They presented the Prosecutor with evidence of “unbridled corruption” and influence peddling in Vignati's sale not only of rice and corn but also of agricultural machinery, power plants, and black beans to Venezuela. The legislators pointed out that Bioart had only five employees in 2012 and that, until its role in grain sales to Venezuela, had officially been involved only in the retail sale of fertilizer and seeds. The legislators also asked the prosecutor to investigate María Gabriela Chávez and former Food Minister Felix Osorio and to ask for Cheppi to be recalled as ambassador.\n\nOn July 29, 2014, \"Clarín\" reported that Vignati was not only exporting rice and corn to Venezuela at highly inflated prices, but had also acted as an intermediary in the export of agricultural machinery from Argentina to Venezuela, via Bioart SA and another firm, Acoplados El Grillo. \"Clarín\" noted that El Grillo, based in Arrecifes, was officially owned by Jorge Bulgarelli, the lawyer of María Eugenia Vignati, and that Roberto Vignati had earlier been involved with Bulgarelli in his ultimately scandalous effort to do business in Ecuador. \"Clarín\" also pointed out that Ricardo Rodriguez Miranda, president of Pedro Camejo, a company created by Chávez in 2007 to further Venezuela's agricultural mechanization, had known Vignati since 2008, when Rodriguez had worked for another Venezuela state company, Legumes Alba SA, and had approved contracts with Marisa, the silo firm owned by Vignati's mother's family.\n\nOn September 8, 2014, \"Los Andes\" reported that three people who knew Roberto Vignati said he had been awarded the role as grain-sales intermediary due to his close family ties with the Kirchners. \"Los Andes\" further noted that despite the controversy, Bioart had received “official permission to export another boatload of corn” to Venezuela. The precise amount of the new shipment would be 46,957 tons; the price was not made public.\n"}
{"id": "48429463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48429463", "title": "Roy Señeres", "text": "Roy Señeres\n\nRoy Villareal Señeres (July 6, 1947 – February 8, 2016) was a Filipino statesman and diplomat who initially ran in the 2016 Philippine presidential election under the Partido ng Manggagawa at Magsasaka party before withdrawing on February 5, 2016, three days before his death. Señeres was elected as a member of the Philippine House of Representatives representing the OFW Family Club party-list in the 2013 general elections. He is the father of former congressman Christian Señeres.\n\nRoy Señeres was born on July 6, 1947 in Mambusao, Capiz to Federico Señeres and Lourdes Villareal. They formerly resided in the Compostela Valley and Davao del Norte, but eventually moved to Butuan. Roy studied at the Primary Butuan Elementary School, Butuan Central Elementary School, and Agusan National High School. He later earned a Bachelor of Arts degree at the University of Santo Tomas in 1967 and a Bachelor of Laws at San Beda College in 1971. He passed the bar exam the same year.\n\nHe was also a columnist of the tabloid, Pilipino Star Ngayon. His column is entitled \"Amba's Briefs\".\n\nSeñeres chaired the National Labor Relations Commission of the Department of Labor and Employment from 2002 to 2005. During the 2013 elections, he won a seat in the Philippine House of Representatives as the representative of the OFW Family Club party-list.\n\nHe served as a labor attaché in Abu Dhabi in the United Arab Emirates from 1983 to 1989. During his tenure as a labor attaché, his residence served as a refuge for Overseas Filipino Workers (OFW) who fled from their employers. This would lead to the establishment of the first Overseas Workers Welfare Administration (OWWA) center in the Emirati city.\n\nSeñeres was instrumental in the handling of the case of Sarah Balabagan, an OFW who was on death row in the UAE for stabbing her male employer. The OFW justified her deed as an act of self-defence against rape. Through his reported connections with the royal family of Abu Dhabi, he helped secure a pardon for the migrant worker, having convinced the UAE authorities that Balabagan was only 15 years old and not 22 as indicated in her falsified passport.\n\nSeñeres first bared his intention to run for the Philippine Presidency on October 20, 2014, during the launch of his Respect our Security of Employment (ROSE) movement in Butuan.\n\nHe reiterated his plan for candidacy in the 2016 presidential election one year later during a briefing in the House of Representatives. Under the Partido ng Manggagawa at Magsasaka, he fielded a vice-presidential candidate and a 12-man senatorial slate, and launched his presidential bid on October 11, 2015 at the Liwasang Bonifacio in Manila. At the time of the filing of his certificate of candidacy, Señeres was a Philippine congressman for the OFW Family Club Party List. He was mostly involved in labor issues having been an Ambassador to the United Arab Emirates overseeing the plight of Overseas Filipino Workers in the gulf state including the case of Sarah Balabagan. He was also the chairman of National Labor Relations Commission.\n\nSeñeres' bid was the subject of humor during meetings in the Philippine House of Representatives, as it was viewed as a \"stunt\" by fellow congressmen.. Señeres was chided that he needed first to run a serious nationwide campaign (i.e. senatorial) to have a chance of winning the Philippine presidency. Señeres subsequently expressed his hope that he would not be declared a \"nuisance candidate\" by the Comelec.\n\nSeñeres expressed the possibility that the then-incumbent Davao City mayor Rodrigo Duterte would be his substitute candidate should Duterte become a pro-life advocate. However, Señeres later refused to substitute for Duterte and criticized the latter's inevitable decision to pursue the presidency, and claimed that Duterte should have endorsed and supported him instead.\n\nOn November 22, 2015, he launched the National Headquarters of the Partido ng Manggagawa at Magsasaka for his presidential campaign in Las Piñas.\n\nSeñeres said that he was neither expecting nor soliciting campaign resources from big business firms. He noted that other candidates were using private jets and helicopters owned by mall owners, and claimed that those candidates became beholden to those who provided them such transport.\n\nFor his campaign method which he dubbed as a \"Kalyeserye\" style of approach, Señeres organized small meetings in streets and publicly accessible places such as parking lots. He said that the primary audience for his campaign were contractual employees of big shopping malls.\n\nDespite these initiatives, however, citing a failing health condition due to his long-standing bout with diabetes, Señeres finally decided to withdraw his presidential bid on February 5, 2016.\n\nSeñeres campaigned against contractualization which he described as illegal under the Labor Code. He went further to say that major shopping malls were those mostly responsible for the practice of contractualization. He said that contractuals do not receive labor benefits and neither are given security of tenure. In the context of contractual workers employed in shopping malls, he argued that billions of pesos that would have been given to them as benefits (such as the 13th month pay) are utilized by their employers to build more malls in the country and abroad.\n\nAlleging that the government is avoiding the issue, he said that he decided to run for president because he can't make executive orders if he stays in Congress, adding that he would direct the Department of Labor and Employment to implement the law against contractualization if he is elected.\n\nHe promised permanent employment to both workers in the private and government sectors.\n\nSeñeres cast himself as a \"pro-life\" candidate, disagreeing with then-Presidential candidate Rodrigo Duterte's opinion that drug lords and syndicate minions deserve the death penalty, which the former described as \"pro-death\".\n\nSeñeres was critical of Duterte, stating \"irreconcilable differences\" with the latter. He described himself as \"pro-life\" and diametrically described Duterte as \"pro-death\". However, it was reported by the \"Philippine Daily Inquirer\" that two Supreme Court justices, Jose Catral Mendoza and Bienvenido Reyes, pressured Señeres to withdraw from the presidential election in favor of Duterte in a meeting of fraternity brothers in Pasig on December 4, 2015. The four are part of the Lex Talionis fraternity which was founded in San Beda College. Seneres denied the newspaper report a week later, saying that he discussed other matters with the justices, and that two other lawyers in attendance were those who offered the possibility of Duterte substituting him.\n\nIn October 2015, Señeres revealed that he would vote for either Grace Poe or Miriam Defensor-Santiago, his presidential competitors, rather than for himself, to \"bring back the 'old custom' of chivalry\".\n\n\nShortly after withdrawing his bid for presidency due to health reasons, Señeres suffered a cardiac arrest and was admitted to the intensive care unit of the St. Luke's Medical Center in Taguig, which according to his sister-in-law was triggered by his diabetes. On February 8, 2016, in an interview with DZMM, his eldest son RJ said that Señeres died from his cardiac arrest that morning while at the intensive care unit. Señeres was 68 years old and was survived by his wife and their six children.\n\nSeñeres withdrew from the presidential race. However his certificate of withdrawal was not accepted since the law mandates that the candidate must file the document personally. Señeres died shortly after he backed out from the elections. In case of death, substitution is allowed provided that a member of the same party of and has the same surname of the candidate concerned.\n\nOn February 9, 2016, Señeres daughter, Hannah filed a motion to the Commission on Elections stating that he would not be substituted saying that it was among of his last wishes. Señeres was also said to refuse to endorse any of the five remaining presidential candidates. On the same day, an earlier motion was filed by Partido ng Manggagawa at Magsasaka to declare Señeres' presidential candidate slot vacant. Apolonia Comia-Soguilon, a lawyer and member of the party since 1995 was touted by Señeres' party to be Señeres' substitute candidate.\n\nHe was married to Minnie Seneres with 7 children: Jay Thomas, Christian, Roy Jr. (RJ), Monique, Hannah, Hazel, Christopher. RJ and Hannah are the first and second nominees of OFW Family Club party-list.\n\n"}
{"id": "41107103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41107103", "title": "Second Company Law Directive", "text": "Second Company Law Directive\n\nThe Second Company Law Directive 2012/30/EU (sometimes also called the \"Capital Directive\") is a European Union Directive concerning the capital requirements of public companies that operating within the European Union. A number of its provisions have become increasingly controversial since its enactment in 1976, as many rules for the maintenance and alteration of capital have been abandoned within EU member states, particularly regarding the use of minimum capital (currently set at €25,000), and the accounting concept of nominal share value. Nevertheless, a large number of its rules are still seen as essential for the protection of creditors, to attempt to forestall insolvency.\n\n\nThe Directives provisions on freedom of establishment had determined that minimum capital was a disproportionate means to achieve the aim of protecting creditors. These decisions have only been made in relation to national laws regarding private companies, and not yet the EU Directive itself. It is unclear to what extent it would be regarded as compatible with the TFEU.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32840753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32840753", "title": "Sociedade Anónima Desportiva", "text": "Sociedade Anónima Desportiva\n\nSociedade Anónima Desportiva (\"Public limited sports company\") is a special type of public limited company (SA) in Portugal. The new legal status was introduced in the early 1990s to improve financial management and transparency in sports clubs. Many Portuguese football and basketball clubs add the suffix S.A.D. to the end of their official name.\n\n"}
{"id": "10627468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10627468", "title": "Structurer", "text": "Structurer\n\nIn finance, a structurer is a person who designs structured products and determines how the pay rules will distribute cash flows for a deal. Structurers will also typically build computer models to mimic the pay rules in order to see how collateral payments affect the bond payments. \nAll the above should be done before a deal settles, afterward it should be in the hands of the Bond administration to apply the rules as described in the deal legal documents.\n"}
{"id": "22755421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22755421", "title": "Suleiman Jasir Al-Herbish", "text": "Suleiman Jasir Al-Herbish\n\nSuleiman Jasir Al-Herbish (born 6 November 1942, Ar Rass, Saudi Arabia)() ended his third five-year term as Director-General of the OPEC Fund for International Development (OFID) on October 31, 2018.\n\n\nSuleiman Jasir Al-Herbish, a Saudi national, became the Director-General and Chief Executive Officer of OFID in November 2003. \nAl-Herbish guided OFID through a period of deep transformation which includes:<br>\n\n\nThese developments have enabled the institution to substantially enhance the execution of its mandate and consolidate its standing as a prominent and respected player in the global development arena.<br>\n\nAl-Herbish and Energy Poverty Alleviation<br>\n\nAl-Herbish has been one of the world’s leading advocates of energy poverty alleviation, having championed the cause for over a decade. He was the first person to label energy access as the “missing ninth” Millennium Development Goal (MDG). \nIn 2012, UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon requested that Al-Herbish join his High-Level Group on Sustainable Energy for All (SE4All). In 2013 he received an invitation to serve on the SE4ALL Advisory Board, which he has served on ever since.\n\nPrior to his appointment at OFID, Al-Herbish had served for 13 years as the Governor of Saudi Arabia at the Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2827819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2827819", "title": "Suzy Welch", "text": "Suzy Welch\n\nSuzy Welch (born Suzanne Spring in 1959), formerly known as Suzy Wetlaufer, is an American author, television commentator, business journalist, and public speaker. Her 2009 book, \"10-10-10: A Life Transforming Idea\", was a \"New York Times\" bestseller. She is also the co-author, with her husband Jack Welch, of two international \"New York Times\" and \"Wall Street Journal\" best-selling business books, \"Winning\", published in 2005, and \"The Real Life MBA\", published in 2015.\n\nSuzy Welch was born Suzanne Spring in 1959 to parents Phyllis and Bernard Spring in Portland, Oregon. She was primarily raised in New York and New England. Welch attended Phillips Exeter Academy, Harvard and Radcliffe College, and Harvard Business School, from which she graduated as a Baker Scholar, in the top five percent of her class.\n\nWelch started her career as a reporter with the \"Miami Herald\" and then with the Associated Press. After business school, she worked for several years at Bain & Company, a management consulting firm based in Boston. She was later named editor-in-chief of the \"Harvard Business Review\". She has written a novel, and authored and edited numerous books and articles dealing with leadership, organizational change, and human resource management.\n\nIn early 2002, Welch was forced to resign from the \"Harvard Business Review\" after admitting to an affair with the then-married Jack Welch, the former chief executive officer of General Electric, while preparing an interview with him for the magazine. The affair was brought to the attention of the \"Review\" by Jane Welch, Welch's wife at the time. Jack Welch and Jane Welch divorced and he then married Suzy Welch. Suzy Welch had the interview pulled before it appeared in the \"Business Review\".\n\nTogether with her husband, Jack Welch, Suzy has co-authored several best-selling books including, \"Winning\", its companion volume, \"Winning: The Answers\", and, most recently, \"The Real Life MBA: Your No-BS Guide to Winning the Game, Building a Team and Growing Your Career.\" Jack and Suzy also wrote \"The Welch Way\", a weekly column on business and career challenges that appeared in \"BusinessWeek\" magazine from 2005 to 2009 and was published in 45 newspapers across the world by \"The New York Times\" Syndicate. Together, they also founded Jack Welch Management Institute, an online MBA program.\n\nShe has written about work–life balance and other cultural issues for publications including \"O, The Oprah Magazine\" and \"The Wall Street Journal\". In addition, she has been a commentator on television programs including \"Good Morning America\", \"The View\", \"Morning Joe\", \"Your World With Neil Cavuto\", and \"Power Lunch\". Her career expertise and perceptive commentary have made her a regular contributor on The TODAY Show and Bulls & Bears.\n\nWelch is a well-known public speaker represented by CAA. She moderated SXSW's Q&A session between legendary business leader and husband, Jack Welch and venture capitalist Gary Vaynerchuk.\n\nAll proceeds from the Welchs' books are donated to fund scholarships for low-income students. Suzy and Jack have donated over $8 million to the University of Massachusetts, primarily through the John and Grace Welch Scholarship fund for Salem High School students.\n\nIn 2015, Suzy Welch was elected to the Board of Directors of The Humane Society of the United States.\n\nWelch is the mother of four adult children (from her previous marriage). She married Jack Welch, former CEO of General Electric, in 2004, after meeting him in October 2001.\n"}
{"id": "11096681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11096681", "title": "The Hundred Year Lie", "text": "The Hundred Year Lie\n\nThe Hundred Year Lie: How Food And Medicine Are Destroying Your Health (2006) is a book by investigative journalist Randall Fitzgerald that examines the rise of the local and global influence of the United States food and chemical industries, and argues that they have, over the last century, altered, affected and damaged the lives of millions of people in the United States by introducing synthetic chemicals into the mainstream food chain.\n\nThe book covers a wide range of topics related to the central issue. It starts by describing the myths that the public believes, that toxicity health issues are 'someone else's problem', and then goes on to talk about what is known to the scientific and chemical communities, and charts the history of the cover-up of chemicals in relation to human health, and the level of business made from this by the chemical companies.\n\nThe book then goes on in detail about the dangers of food additives, the toxic threats of the processed food humans and animals currently eat, and how this chemical contamination has now affected the water that people drink, and how this has brought on increased biological changes, genetic mutations and newly discovered and increasing illnesses and diseases, in both human and animals.\n\nThe book ends with a discussion on Western and Eastern medical approaches and philosophies, a focus on alternative medicine and eating healthily, avoiding synthetic foods, and a practical guide on how to detoxify one's body.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8825337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8825337", "title": "Valery Golubev", "text": "Valery Golubev\n\nValery Aleksandrovich Golubev (, born June 14, 1952, Leningrad (Saint Petersburg), former Soviet Union) is a Russian politician and businessman. He is a former Head of the Vasileostrovsky Administrative District of St. Petersburg, former member of the Federation Council of Russia, currently a Deputy CEO Gazprom and the Head of its Department for Construction and Investment. \n\n"}
{"id": "492132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=492132", "title": "Waldorf Astoria New York", "text": "Waldorf Astoria New York\n\nThe Waldorf Astoria New York is a luxury hotel in Midtown Manhattan, New York City. The hotel has been housed in two historic landmark buildings in New York. The first, bearing the same name, was built in two stages, as the Waldorf Hotel and the Astoria Hotel, which accounts for its dual name. That original site was situated on Astor family properties along Fifth Avenue, opened in 1893, and designed by Henry J. Hardenbergh. It was demolished in 1929 to make way for the construction of the Empire State Building. The present building, at 301 Park Avenue between 49th and 50th Streets in Midtown Manhattan, is a 47-story Art Deco landmark designed by architects Schultze and Weaver, which was completed in 1931. The current hotel was the world's tallest hotel from 1931 until 1963, when it was surpassed by Moscow's Hotel Ukraina by . An icon of glamour and luxury, the current Waldorf Astoria is one of the world's most prestigious and best known hotels. Waldorf Astoria Hotels and Resorts is a division of Hilton Hotels, and a portfolio of high-end properties around the world now operate under the name, including in New York City.\n\nFrom its inception, the Waldorf Astoria gained international renown for its lavish dinner parties and galas, often at the center of political and business conferences and fundraising schemes involving the rich and famous. Particularly after World War II it played a significant role in world politics and the Cold War, culminating in the controversial World Peace Conference of March 1949 at the hotel, in which Stalinism was widely denounced. Conrad Hilton acquired management rights to the hotel on October 12, 1949, and the Hilton Hotels Corporation finally bought the hotel outright in 1972. It underwent a $150 million renovation by Lee Jablin in the 1980s and early 1990s, and in October 2014 it was announced that the Anbang Insurance Group of China had purchased the Waldorf Astoria New York for US$1.95 billion, making it the most expensive hotel ever sold. On July 1, 2016, Anbang announced that it would convert some of the Waldorf's hotel rooms into condominiums, closing the hotel for a three-year renovation on March 1, 2017.\n\nThe Waldorf Astoria and Towers has a total of 1,413 hotel rooms as of 2014. In 2009, when it had 1,416 rooms, the main hotel had 1,235 single and double rooms and 208 mini suites, while the Waldorf Towers, from the 28th floor up to the 42nd, had 181 rooms, of which 115 were suites, with one to four bedrooms. Several of the luxury suites are named after celebrities who lived or stayed in them such as the Cole Porter Suite, the Royal Suite, named after the Duke and Duchess of Windsor, the MacArthur Suite and the Churchill Suite. The most expensive room, the Presidential Suite, is designed with Georgian-style furniture to emulate that of the White House. It was the residence of Herbert Hoover from his retirement for over 30 years, and Frank Sinatra kept a suite at the Waldorf from 1979 until 1988. The hotel has three main restaurants, Peacock Alley, The Bull and Bear Steak House, and La Chine, a new Chinese restaurant that replaced Oscar's Brasserie in late 2015. Sir Harry's Bar, named after British explorer Sir Harry Johnston, is the home of the Rob Roy and the Bobbie Burns cocktails.\n\nThe name of the hotel is ultimately derived from the town of Walldorf in Germany, the ancestral home of the prominent German-American Astor family who originated there. The hotel was originally known as the Waldorf-Astoria with a single hyphen, as recalled by a popular expression and song, \"Meet Me at the Hyphen\". The sign was changed to a double hyphen, looking similar to an equals sign, by Conrad Hilton when he purchased the hotel in 1949. The double hyphen visually represents \"Peacock Alley\", the hallway between the two hotels that once stood where the Empire State building now stands today. The use of the double hyphen was discontinued by parent company Hilton in 2009, shortly after the introduction of the Waldorf Astoria Hotels and Resorts chain. The hotel has since been known as the Waldorf Astoria New York, without any hyphen, though this is sometimes shortened to the Waldorf Astoria.\n\nThe original hotel started as two hotels on Fifth Avenue built by feuding relatives. The first hotel, the 13-story, 450-room Waldorf Hotel, designed by Henry Janeway Hardenbergh in the German Renaissance style, was opened on March 13, 1893, at the corner of Fifth Avenue and 33rd Street, on the site where millionaire developer William Waldorf Astor had his mansion. The original hotel stood high, with a frontage of about on Fifth Avenue, with an area of . The original hotel was described as having a \"lofty stone and brick exterior\", which was \"animated by an effusion of balconies, alcoves, arcades, and loggias beneath a tile roof bedecked with gables and turrets\". William Astor, motivated in part by a dispute with his aunt Caroline Webster Schermerhorn Astor, had built the Waldorf Hotel next door to her house, on the site of his father's mansion. The hotel was built to the specifications of founding proprietor George Boldt, who owned and operated the Bellevue-Stratford Hotel, a fashionable hotel on Broad Street in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, with his wife Louise. Boldt was described as \"Mild mannered, undignified, unassuming\", resembling \"a typical German professor with his close-cropped beard which he kept fastidiously trimmed... and his pince-nez glasses on a black silk cord\". Boldt continued to own the Bellevue even after his relationship with the Astors blossomed.\n\nAt first, the Waldorf appeared destined for failure. It was originally a laughing stock with its high number of bathrooms and was known briefly as \"Boldt's Folly\" or \"Astor's Folly\", with the general perception of the palatial hotel being that it had no place in New York City. Wealthy New Yorkers were angry because they viewed the construction of the hotel as the ruination of a good neighborhood. Business travelers found it too expensive and too far uptown for their needs. In the face of all of this, George Boldt decided that the hotel would host a benefit concert for St. Mary's Hospital for Children on its opening day. The hospital was the favorite charity of those on the Social Register. The ballroom filled with many of New York's First Families, who had paid five dollars for the concert and dinner at the Waldorf. It soon became a major success, earning $4.5 million in its first year, exorbitant for that period.\n\nWilliam Astor's construction of a hotel next to his aunt's house worsened his feud with her, but with Boldt's assistance, Waldorf's cousin, John Jacob Astor IV, persuaded his mother to move uptown. On November 1, 1897, John Jacob Astor IV opened the 17-story Astoria Hotel on an adjacent site, and leased it to Boldt. The hotels were initially built as two separate structures, but Boldt planned the Astoria so it could be connected to the Waldorf by an alley. Peacock Alley was constructed to connect the two buildings, and the hotel subsequently became known as the \"Waldorf-Astoria\", the largest hotel in the world at the time.\n\nWith a telephone in every room and first-class room service, the hotel was designed specifically to cater to the needs of socially prominent \"wealthy upper crust\" of New York and distinguished foreign visitors to the city. The hotel became, according to author Sean Dennis Cashman, \"a successful symbol of the opulence and achievement of the Astor family\". It was the first hotel to offer complete electricity and private bathrooms. Founding proprietor Boldt, whose motto was \"the guest is always right\", became wealthy and prominent internationally, if not so much a popular celebrity as his famous employee, Oscar Tschirky, known as \"Oscar of the Waldorf\", \"maître d'hôtel\" from the hotel's inauguration in 1893 until his retirement in 1943. Tschirky had arrived in the United States from Switzerland 10 years prior to applying for the position at the new Waldorf, and over the years grew to possess a great knowledge of cuisine. He authored \"The Cookbook by Oscar of the Waldorf\" (1896), a 900-page book featuring all of the popular recipes of the day, including his own, for which he garnered great acclaim, such as Waldorf salad, eggs Benedict, and Thousand Island dressing, which remain popular worldwide today. James Remington McCarthy wrote in his book \"Peacock Alley\" that Oscar gained renown among the general public as an artist who \"composed sonatas in soups, symphonies in salads, minuets in sauces, lyrics in entrees\". In 1902, Tschirky published \"Serving a Course Dinner by Oscar of the Waldorf-Astoria\", a booklet that explains the intricacies of being a caterer to the American and international elite. Tschirky had an excellent memory and an encyclopedic memory of the culinary preferences of many of the guests, which further added to his popularity. In 1937, for instance, he recalled the opening night and notable people present at the old Waldorf, a guest at the old building known to the public as Buffalo Bill, and spoke at length about the planning for the Panama Canal that took place at the Waldorf-Astoria.The Waldorf gained significant renown internationally for its fundraising dinners and balls, regularly attracting notables of the day such as Andrew Carnegie, who became a fixture. Banquets were often held in the ballroom for esteemed figures and international royalty. The Waldorf Astoria was influential in advancing the status of women, who were admitted singly without escorts. George Boldt's wife, Louise Kehrer Boldt, was influential in evolving the idea of the grand urban hotel as a social center, particularly in making it appealing to women as a venue for social events. On February 11, 1899, Oscar hosted a lavish dinner reception that the \"New York Herald Tribune\" cited as the city's costliest dinner at the time. Some $250 were spent per guest, with bluepoint oysters, green turtle soup, lobster, ruddy duck, and blue raspberries. One article that year claimed that at any one time, the hotel had $7 million worth of valuables locked in the safe, testament to the wealth of its guests. In 1902, a lavish dinner was organized for Prince Henry of Prussia, and in 1909, banquets attended by hundreds were organized for Arctic explorer Frederick Cook in September and Elbert Henry Gary, a founder of US Steel, the following month.\n\nThe United States Senate inquiry into the sinking of the RMS \"Titanic\" was opened at the hotel on April 19, 1912, and continued there for some time in the Myrtle Room, before moving on to Washington, DC. John Jacob Astor IV was one of the people who perished on its ill-fated journey. Seven senators were present on the subcommittee, including William Alden Smith (Republican, Michigan) as chair, Jonathan Bourne (R, Oregon), Theodore E. Burton (R, Ohio), Duncan U. Fletcher (Democrat, Florida), Francis G. Newlands (D, Nevada), George Clement Perkins (R, California), and Furnifold McLendel Simmons (D, North Carolina). The composition of the subcommittee was carefully chosen to represent the conservative, moderate, and liberal wings of the two parties.\n\nIn 1919, restaurateur Louis Sherry announced an \"alliance\" with the Waldorf-Astoria that involved both his candies and catering services. Although it was not disclosed at that time, at some point, ownership of Louis Sherry Inc. was significantly vested in \"Boomer-duPont interests\", a reference to Lucius M. Boomer, then chairman of the Waldorf-Astoria, and T. Coleman du Pont. Upon his death that year, William Waldorf Astor was reputed to have been worth £200 million, which he left in trust for his two sons Waldorf and John Jacob. His half share of the Waldorf Astoria and the Astor Hotel at the time were reported to have been worth £10 million. On the evening of November 15, 1926, the National Broadcasting Company broadcast its inaugural program from the grand ballroom of the old Waldorf-Astoria. Among the entertainers heard by radio listeners was Will Rogers. The network became the Red Network on January 1, 1927, when NBC launched its second network, designated the Blue Network. An antitrust suit forced the sale of the Blue Network in 1942; it became the American Broadcasting Company.\n\nThe hotel faced stiff competition from the early 20th century, with a range of new hotels springing up in New York City such the Hotel Astor (1904), the St. Regis (1904), the Knickerbocker (1906), and the Savoy-Plaza Hotel (1927). By the 1920s, the hotel was becoming dated, and the elegant social life of New York had moved much farther north than 34th Street. The Astor family finally sold the hotel to the developers of the Empire State Building and closed the hotel on May 3, 1929. It was demolished soon after.\n\nThe idea of a new Waldorf-Astoria hotel was based on the concept that a large, opulent hotel should be available in New York for distinguished visitors. Financial backing was not difficult to get in the summer of 1929, as times were prosperous; the stock market had not yet crashed nor had the Depression arrived. However, before ground was broken for the new building, some of the investors became dubious about whether this was the right time to be investing in a luxury hotel. The land for the new hotel was formerly owned by the New York Central Railroad, which had promised $10 million toward the building of the new Waldorf-Astoria. The railroad and all the other investors decided to honor their commitments and take their chances with the uncertain financial climate.\n\nThe new building opened on Park Avenue, between East 49th and East 50th streets, on October 1, 1931. It was the tallest and largest hotel in the world at the time, covering the entire block. The slender central tower became known as the Waldorf Towers, with its own private entrance on 50th Street, and consisted of 100 suites, about one-third of which were leased as private residences. President Herbert Hoover said on the radio, broadcast from the White House: \"The opening of the new Waldorf Astoria is an event in the advancement of hotels, even in New York City. It carries great tradition in national hospitality...marks the measure of nation's growth in power, in comfort and in artistry...an exhibition of courage and confidence to the whole nation\". About 2,000 people were in the ballroom listening to this speech, but by the end of the business day, the 2,200-room hotel had only 500 occupancies. The Waldorf-Astoria did not begin operating at a profit until 1939. Lucius Boomer continued to manage the hotel in the 1930s and 1940s, a commanding figure to whom Tony Rey referred as \"the greatest hotelman of his era\". Boomer was elected chairman of the board of the Waldorf-Astoria Corporation on February 20, 1945, a position he held until his death in July 1947.\n\nLike the original hotel, from its inception, the Waldorf Astoria gained worldwide renown for its glamorous dinner parties and galas, often at the center of political and business conferences and fundraising schemes. Author Ward Morehouse III has referred to the Waldorf Astoria as \"comparable to great national institutions\" and a \"living symbol deep within our collective consciousness\". It had the \"greatest banquet department in the world\" at the time according to restaurateur Tom Margittai, with the center of activity being the Grand Ballroom. On August 3, 1932, some 200 people representing the \"cream of New York's literary world\" attended the Waldorf Astoria to honor Pearl S. Buck, the author of \"The Good Earth\", which was the best-selling novel in the United States in 1931 and 1932. One dinner alone, a relatively \"small dinner\" attended by some 50 people in June 1946, raised over $250,000. During the 1930s and 1940s the hotel's guests were also entertained at the elegant \"Starlight Roof\" nightclub by the Waldorf-Astoria Orchestra and such noted musicians as: Xavier Cugat, Eddie Duchin, Lester Lanin and Glenn Miller. \n\nThe hotel played a considerable role in the emerging Cold War and international relations during the postwar years, staging numerous events and conferences. On March 15, 1946, Winston Churchill attended a welcoming dinner at the hotel given by Governor Thomas E. Dewey, 10 days after making his famous Iron Curtain speech, and from November 4 to December 12, 1946, the Big Four Conference was held in Jørgine Boomer's apartment on the 37th floor of the Towers between the United States, Britain, France, and the Soviet Union to discuss the future of Eastern Europe. On November 24, 1947, 48 prominent figures of the Hollywood film industry, including various film executives such as Louis B. Mayer of Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer, Harry Cohn of Columbia Pictures, Spyros Skouras of 20th Century Fox, Albert Warner of Warner Bros., and Eric Johnston, the head of the Association of Motion Picture Producers, met at the Waldorf Astoria and discussed what would become the Waldorf Statement, banning people with Communist beliefs or tendencies from the Hollywood film industry. The statement was a response to the contempt of Congress charges against the so-called \"Hollywood Ten\".\n\nOn June 21, 1948, a press conference at the hotel introduced the LP record. From March 27 to 29, 1949, the Cultural and Scientific Conference for World Peace, also known as the Waldorf World Peace Conference, was held at the hotel to discuss the emerging Cold War and the growing divide between the US and the Soviet Union. The conference came at time when deep anti-Communist sentiment and suspicion of the Soviet Union existed in the United States, following the Berlin Blockade and the Czechoslovak \"coup d'état\" the previous year. The event was organized by the struggling American Communist Party, but was sponsored by many individuals who were not Stalinists, such as Leonard Bernstein, Marlon Brando, Albert Einstein, and Aaron Copland, with the intention of promoting peace. The conference was attended by the likes of Soviet Foreign Minister Andrey Vyshinsky, composer and pianist Dmitri Shostakovich, and writer Alexsander Fadeyev. Tension mounted during the controversial event, and culminated when Shostakovich, in front of a crowd of some 800 people, launched a scathing attack on western civilization, remarking, \"a small clique of hatemongers was preparing world public opinion for the transition from cold war to outright aggression\". The event was picketed in a counterattack by anti-Stalinists running under the banner of America for Intellectual Freedom, and prominent individuals such as Irving Howe, Dwight Macdonald, Mary McCarthy, Robert Lowell, and Norman Mailer publicly denounced Stalinism at the hotel. In 1954, Israeli statesman and archaeologist Yigael Yadin met secretly with the Syriac Orthodox Archbishop Mar Samuel in the basement of the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel to negotiate the purchase of four Dead Sea Scrolls for Israel. The scrolls were kept in a vault at the Waldorf-Astoria branch of New York's Chemical Bank. At the request of the Israeli government, respected biblical scholar Dr. Harry Orlinsky examined the scrolls and verified their authenticity; Yadin paid $250,000 for all four. Restaurateur George Lang began working at the Waldorf Astoria Hotel in 1955, and on December 13, 1955, he helped organize the American Theatre Wing's First Night Ball to celebrate Helen Hayes's 50th year in show business. He did much to organize dinners at the Waldorf to assist Hungarian issues and relief. On one occasion, an event was attended by Edward G. Robinson and pianist Doklady and some $60,000 were raised.\n\nThe April in Paris Ball was an annual gala event whose mission was to improve Franco–American relations, to share cultures, and to help provide assistance to US and French charities, aside from commemorating the 2000th anniversary of the founding of Paris. It was established by Claude Philippe, the hotel banquet manager, in 1952. While the hotel's management handled invitations and publicity, other details were coordinated by socialites. Elsa Maxwell was given the primary responsibility in organizing it. It was initially held annually in April, but according to Ann Vaccaro, former executive director of the ball, it was changed to October because \"Mr. Philippe decided that because there are so many balls in the spring, he would make it in October\". After being changed to October, it often marked the start of the US fall social season. It was staged in the Grand Ballroom at the Waldorf for eight years before moving to the Hotel Astor in 1960, the Seventh Regiment Armory in 1961, and other venues.\n\nThe ball was designed to cater for \"very, very high-class people\" according to Vaccaro. Raffle tickets cost US$100 per person and offered opulent prizes such as a US$5000 bracelet and other jewels, expensive furs, perfumes, and even cars. In the 1960 event, prizes given included a Ford Thunderbird car, a chinchilla coat, a Renault Dauphine, a TV Hi-Fi system, an electric typewriter, 25 cases of expensive French wines, original paintings and porcelains, jewels, clocks, evening bags, and a pedigreed poodle; guests were given gift boxes containing gold key rings and jewelry, champagne and brandy, Maxim ashtrays, pipes, silver bottle openers, hats and scarves, and flowers. Every guest was said to have gone home with at least one gift in return. In the 1979 event, some US$106,000 worth of prizes was given out. Over its history, the ball, which was exempt from taxes, earned millions of dollars, which went primarily to over 20 American charities such as the American Cancer Society, with 15 to 20% going towards French charities. A staff of three people was paid full-time throughout the year to organize it. Of the expenses of the ball, founder Philippe stated, \"We charge the most, give the most, and make the most – it's a success formula\". Bernard F. Gimbel served as chief treasurer.\n\nThe Paris Ball became a notable event in the annual calendar during the 1950s, with one early show featuring a \"three-hour spectacular of five tableaux, directed by Stuart Chaney\", [depicting] a 12th-century scene of troubadours at the court of Eleanor of Aquitane, Henry VIII's meeting at the Field of the Cloth of Gold, Louis XIV at Versailles, and a fashion show of 40 creations by Dior, Fath, Balmain, Desses, and Givenchy\". French stars Juliette Greco, Jean Sablon, Beatrice Lillie, John Loder and many others were flown over for the ball. The 1957 event was attended by some 1300 guests, including the Duke and Duchess of Windsor, Senator John F. Kennedy, his wife, Jackie, and Marilyn Monroe, who paid $100 each and donated $130,000 to charities. The following year, the ballroom was decorated with high chestnut trees, earning US$170,000 for charities. The final ball to be hosted in the hotel was held on April 10, 1959, with the main theme being the Parisian circus of the 18th century. Genuine circus costumes from the period were flown over from France, and the ball was attended by Marlene Dietrich, who performed two Maurice Chevalier songs, wearing a top hat, trousers, a waistcoat, and white gloves.\n\nOn May 6, 1963, \"Time\" celebrated its 40th anniversary at the hotel. The event was attended by some 1500 celebrities, including General Douglas MacArthur, Jean Monnet, Henry Cabot Lodge, Jr., Bob Hope, Joe Louis, David O. Selznick, Secretary of State Dean Rusk, Edward Kennedy, Henry Ford II, and many others. In 1968, British rock band The Who checked into the hotel, where they encountered difficulties with the staff of the Waldorf Astoria. Due to the band's reputation for trashing their hotel rooms and rowdy behavior, the Waldorf demanded that they pay cash up front. However, following their gig, the band members were refused access to their hotel rooms, where their luggage was being kept. Tony Fletcher, in his biography on Keith Moon, claims that Moon challenged the staff and blew the door to their room off the hinges with his cherry bombs and retrieved their luggage, which prompted The Who to be shown the door and banned from the hotel for life. However, clearly the ban was later revoked as they performed at the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame Induction at the Waldorf on January 17, 1990.\nSoon after the opening of the hotel in 1931, hotelier Conrad Hilton, almost bankrupt at the time, reportedly cut out a photograph of the hotel from a magazine and wrote across it, \"The Greatest of Them All\". He acquired management rights to the hotel on October 12, 1949. The Hilton Hotels Corporation finally bought the hotel outright in 1972.\n\nIn the 1970s, the Waldorf Astoria continued to play an important role in international politics, particularly between the US and the Middle East. In November 1974, a \"20-car motorcade, with eight shotgun-toting police marksmen aboard in bullet-proof vests\" brought Palestinian Fatah party leader Farouk Kaddoumi to the Waldorf from John F. Kennedy International Airport. The Waldorf was on red alert, and German Shepherd sniffer dogs were brought in prior to his arrival to look for possible bombs. Fifteen suites of the hotel were reserved for the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) delegation. The following month, President Ford met with Nelson Rockefeller after he was voted Vice President, and a 90-minute press conference was held in a suite in the hotel. In November 1975, the US government insisted that PLO leader Yasser Arafat stay at the Waldorf during his visit to America, against the wishes of the hotel staff; security was stepped up severely. On August 12, 1981, IBM unveiled its Personal Computer in a press conference at the Waldorf Astoria, and in 1985, the NBA held its first-ever draft lottery between nonplayoff teams at the Starlight Room. The lottery was for the 1985 NBA Draft in which Patrick Ewing was the consensus number-one pick.\n\nLee Jablin, of Harman Jablin Architects, fully renovated and upgraded the historical property to its original grandeur during the mid-1980s through the mid-1990s in a $150 million renovation. The hotel was named an official New York City Landmark in 1993. On May 27, 2001, the Eastern Diocese of the Armenian Church of America had a grand banquet at the hotel to celebrate the 1700th anniversary of Armenia's conversion to Christianity, with Ambassador Edward Djerejian as guest speaker. On May 7, 2004, a press conference was held by MGM, discussing Steve Martin's \"The Pink Panther\" of the Pink Panther series. The 5th Annual DGA Honors Gala was held at the Waldorf on September 29.\n\nIn 2006, Hilton launched Waldorf Astoria Hotels & Resorts, a brand named for the hotel. Branches of the Waldorf Astoria are now located in Arizona, California, Florida, Hawaii, and Louisiana in the United States, and abroad in France, Israel, Italy, and Saudi Arabia. In 2006, Hilton was reported to be considering opening a new Waldorf Astoria hotel on the Las Vegas Strip. In 2008, the Waldorf Astoria opened the Guerlain and Spa Chakra, Inc. spa at the hotel, as part of the Waldorf Astoria Collection, which offers a \"body massage and facial using Guerlain's age-defying Orchidee Imperiale skincare\".\n\nThe Waldorf Astoria New York is a member of Historic Hotels of America, the official program of the National Trust for Historic Preservation. \"The Towers of the Waldorf Astoria\" continues to operate as a boutique \"hotel within a hotel\". In October 2014, the Anbang Insurance Group, based in China, was announced to have purchased the Waldorf Astoria New York for US$1.95 billion, making it the most expensive hotel ever sold.\n\nOn July 1, 2016, Anbang announced plans to refurbish the hotel and turn some rooms into condominiums. Under the plan, some of the hotel's rooms will be turned into apartments, with the remainder of the rooms remaining hotel suites. As part of the refurbishment process, the hotel closed on March 1, 2017, with plans to reopen it in 2020. The hotel's restaurants, including Peacock Alley, The Bull and Bear Steak House, and the recently opened La Chine, closed along with the hotel; they will reopen when the renovation is completed. A week after the hotel closed, on March 7, 2017, the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission voted unanimously to list the interiors of the hotel's famous public spaces as New York City landmarks, protecting them from any alteration during the renovations.\n\nThe old Waldorf Hotel, built at a reported cost of about US$5million, opened on March 13, 1893, at the corner of Fifth Avenue and 33rd Street, on the site where millionaire developer William Waldorf Astor had previously built his mansion. The hotel stood high, about lower than the Astoria, with a frontage of about on Fifth Avenue, and a total area of . It was a German Renaissance structure, designed by Henry Janeway Hardenbergh, with 15 public rooms and 450 guest rooms, and a further 100 rooms allocated to servants, with laundry facilities on the upper floors. \"The New York Times\" proclaimed the hotel a palace after it opened in 1893.\n\nThe exterior featured loggias, balconies, gables, groups of chimneys, and tiled roofs. One of the chief features was the interior garden court, with fountains and flowers, walls of white terracotta, frescoes, and stained glass. The entrance hall was built in Sienna marble, with a mosaic-tile floor and a coffered ceiling. The original reception desk of the Waldorf Hotel became a registration desk when it merged with the Astoria Hotel in 1897. Beyond the lobby was the main corridor leading to the Empire Room, with an alcove off it containing the elevators and grand staircase. Near this was the Marie Antoinette parlor, which was used as a reception room for women. It contained 18th-century antiques brought back by Boldt and his wife from an 1892 visit to Europe, including a bust of Marie Antoinette, and an antique clock which was once owned by her. The Empire Room was the largest and most lavishly adorned room in the Waldorf, and soon after opening, it became one of the best restaurants in New York City, rivaling Delmonico's and Sherry's. It was modeled after the grand salon in King Ludwig's palace at Munich, with satin hangings, upholstery, and marble pillars, all of pale green, and Crowninshield's frescoes. Empire in style, the Waldorf's restaurant feathered columns of dark-green marble, and the pilasters opposite them were of mahogany, with ormolu work in the panels. The Waldorf State Apartments, consisting of nine suites, were located on the second floor. The apartments, including the Henry IV Drawing Room and the Francois V Bedroom, which was a reproduction of the room at the Palais de Fontainebleau, had their own music room and a banquet hall to seat 20, with a handsome china collection including 48 Sevres plates with European portraits. \nThe old Astoria Hotel, opened in 1897, was situated on the southeast corner of Fifth Avenue and 34th Street. It was also designed in the German Renaissance style by Henry J. Hardenbergh. With dimensions of , its height, from the floor of the sub-basement, which was below the street level, to the roof-line, was about , or about above the street-level. It was 16 stories in height, including the four stories in the roof. The building was constructed of stone, marble, and brick, with a steel skeleton frame and modern fireproof interior construction, and was embellished with \"French Second Empire Mansard-roofed towers with iron-work cresting as well as Austrian Baroque onion-domes over corners turrets\". There were 25 public rooms and 550 guest rooms, with miles of corridors, vestibules and balls.\n\nThe main corridor ran the entire length of the building from east to west. To the left of it was the Astor Dining Room, fronting on Fifth Avenue, which measured . Great care was taken with it to faithfully reproduce the original dining room of the mansion, three floors above where it had stood, with all of the original paneling, carpeting, drapery, and fireplace mantel and Italian Renaissance pilasters and columns, carved of marble from northern Russia. On the right of the main corridor was the Garden Court of Palms, decorated in the Italian style, . On the first floor, at the head-of the east main staircase, was the Astor Gallery, , looking out on 34th Street, finished in the style of the Hôtel de Soubise, with a blue, gray, and gold color scheme. The second floor contained a private suite of apartments at the northeast corner, with large drawing rooms, dining room, butler's pantry, hallway, three bedrooms, three maids' bedrooms, and five bathrooms, all finished in old English oak. All the floors above the third were given up to suites and bedrooms up to the 14th floor. The ballroom, in the Louis XIV style, has been described as the \"pièce de résistance\" of the hotel, measuring by and (three stories) in height. It had a capacity to seat 700 at banquets and 1,200 at concerts, and featured tints of ivory-gray and cream in its design. On the hotel's top floor was the roof garden, enclosed on all sides by glass, with a glass roof over. It was furnished with rattan chairs and lounges in pale green and pink, hung across with gauzy fabric.\n\n\"Travel America\" stated: \"To linger in the sumptuous salons of the Waldorf-Astoria is to step back in time. Your trip down memory lane is a flashback to the glamor days of the 1930s, when this Art Deco masterpiece was the tallest hotel in the world and the epicenter of elite society. A legendary limestone landmark occupying a whole block of prime real estate in midtown Manhattan, it's still a prestigious address that embodies luxury and power in the richest city on earth.\" The hotel was designed by architects Schultze and Weaver and constructed at 301 Park Avenue, just north of Grand Central Terminal. That area was developed by building atop the existing railroad tracks leading to the station, with buildings like the Waldorf Astoria using \"air rights\" to the space above the tracks. The new building opened on October 1, 1931. The 47-story hotel was the tallest and largest hotel in the world, and remained so for a number of years. \n\nPeacock Alley, a 300-ft-long corridor lined with amber marble, connects the two hotel buildings. Gilded, women of the times would enjoy walking along it and admiring themselves in the mirrors. In 1931, as many as 36,000 people reportedly were walking down it on any given day. The Peacock Alley restaurant of the Waldorf took its name from the alley.\n\nThe hotel had its own railway platform, Track 61, that was part of the New York City Subway, and was connected to the Grand Central Terminal complex. The platform was used by Franklin D. Roosevelt, James Farley, Adlai Stevenson, and Douglas MacArthur, among others. The platform was also used for the exhibition of American Locomotive Company's new diesel locomotive in 1946. In 1948, Filene's and the New York, New Haven and Hartford Railroad also staged a fashion show on the platform. An elevator large enough for Franklin D. Roosevelt's automobile provides access to the platform. However, it is rarely opened to the public.\n\nSuch is the architectural and cultural heritage of the hotel that tours are conducted of the hotel for guests. Frommer's has cited the hotel as an \"icon of luxury\", and highlights the \"wide stately corridors, the vintage Deco door fixtures, the white-gloved bellmen, the luxe shopping arcade\", the \"stunning round mosaic under an immense crystal chandelier\", and the \"free-standing Waldorf clock, covered with bronze relief figures\" in the main lobby. They compare the decor of the rooms to those of an English country house, and describe the corridors as being wide and plush-carpeted, which \"seem to go on forever\".\n\nThe lobby floor contains the room registration and cashier desks, the Empire Room and Hilton Room, the private Marco Polo Club, the Wedding Salon, Kenneth's Salon, the Peacock Alley lounge and restaurant, and Sir Harry's Bar. From 1992 to 2013, Kenneth, sometimes called the world's first celebrity hairdresser, famed for creating Jacqueline Kennedy's bouffant in 1961, moved his hairdressing and beauty salon to the Waldorf after a 1990 fire destroyed his East 54th Street shop. In the main foyer is a chandelier measuring by . The elevator is furnished with paneled pollard oak and Carpathian elm. Special desks in the lobby are allocated to transportation and theatre, where exclusive tickets to many of the city's prominent theatres can be purchased. The lobby is furnished with polished nickel-bronze cornices and rockwood stone. The grand clock, a 4000-lb bronze, was built by the Goldsmith's Company of London originally for the 1893 World Columbia Exposition in Chicago, but was purchased by the Waldorf owners. Its base is octagonal, with eight commemorative plaques of presidents George Washington, Abraham Lincoln, Ulysses S. Grant, Andrew Jackson, Benjamin Harrison, and Grover Cleveland, and Queen Victoria and Benjamin Franklin. A shield once belonging to the Waldorf was moved to the Alexis restaurant on W. Franklin Street in 1984. Several boutiques surround the lobby, which contains Cole Porter's Steinway & Sons floral print-decorated grand piano on the Cocktail Terrace, which the hotel had once given him as a gift. Porter was a resident at the hotel for 30 years and composed many of his songs here. The Empire Room is where many of the musical and dance performances were put on, from Count Basie, to Victor Borge, Gordon MacRae, George M. Cohan, and Lena Horne, the first black performer at the hotel.\n\nThe third floor contains the Grand Ballroom, the Silver Corridor, the Basildon Room, the Jade Room, and the Astor Gallery. Numerous organizations hold their annual dinners in the grand ballroom of the Waldorf, including St. John's University President's Dinner, the Catholic Charities of the Archdiocese of New York's annual gala, during which the Deus Caritas Est Award for philanthropy is presented, and the Alfred E. Smith Memorial Foundation Dinner. The NASCAR Sprint Cup end-of-season awards banquet was held at the Waldorf-Astoria every year between 1981 and 2008 before moving to the Wynn in Las Vegas. It was held initially in the Starlight Room, but from 1985, it was staged in the Grand Ballroom, except in 2001 and 2002. On May 1, 2004, the Waldorf-Astoria was the venue for the Manhattan Hungarian Network Grand Europe Ball, a historic black-tie charitable affair co-chaired by Archduke Georg of Austria-Hungary which celebrated the enlargement of the European Union. Bob Hope was such a regular performer at the Ballroom that he said, \"I've played so many dinners in the Grand Ballroom, I always make a crack when I get up to speak that I leave my dinner jacket in the lobby so that I don't have to ship it to the Coast all the time\". Of note in the Astor Gallery are 12 allegorical females, painted by Edward Emerson Simmons. Every October, the Paris Ball was held in the Grand Ballroom, before moving to the Americana (now the Sheraton Center). It hosted a memorable New Year's Eve party with Guy Lombardo and the Royal Canadians, and Lombardo used to broadcast live on the radio there from the \"Starlight Roof\". Maurice Chevalier performed at the ballroom in 1965 in his last appearance. The Silver Corridor outside the ballroom bears a resemblance to the Peacock Alley, but is shorter and wider. The fourth floor has the banquet and sales offices, and many of the suites including Barron, Vanderbilt, Windsor, Conrad, Vertès, Louis XVI, and Cole Porter, named after the celebrities who stayed in them. The fourth floor was where the notorious Sunday-night card games were played. Also, it has a re-creation of one of the living rooms of Hoover's Waldorf-Astoria suite in the Herbert Hoover Presidential Library and Museum.\n\nThe Waldorf Astoria and Towers has a total of 1,413 hotel rooms as of 2014.\nIn 2009, when it had 1,416 rooms, the main hotel had 1,235 single and double rooms and 208 minisuites, 17 of which were classified as \"Astoria Level\", which are upgraded rooms with deluxe amenities and complimentary access to the Astoria Lounge. The Waldorf Towers, from the 28th floor up to the 42nd, had 181 rooms, of which 115 were suites, with one to four bedrooms. As of the late 1990s, the hotel had a housekeeping staff of nearly 400, with 150 day maids and 24 night maids. \nThe rooms retain the original Art Deco motifs, although each room is decorated differently. The guests rooms, classified as Deluxe, Superior, and Luxury, feature \"Waldorf Serenity\" beds and have a marble bath or shower with amenities designed by Salvatore Ferragamo. The suites featured king or double beds and start in size at . The smallest are the one-bedroom suites, which range from , then the Signature suites have a separate living room and one or two bedrooms, which range from , and finally, the suites of The Towers are generally larger and costlier still, and have a twice-daily maid service.\n\nThe Tower suites are divided into standard ones, The Towers Luxury Series, which have their own sitting room, the Towers Penthouse Series, the Towers Presidential-Style Suites, and finally the most expensive Presidential Suite on the 35th floor. The Penthouse Series contains three suites, The Penthouse, The Cole Porter Suite, and The Royal Suite, named after the Duke and Duchess of Windsor. They start at in size, with two or more bedrooms, and are fitted with a kitchen and dining room which can accommodate for 8-12 guests. The Towers Presidential-Style Suites are divided into the MacArthur Suite and the Churchill Suite, and have their own grand entry foyer. Like the Penthouse Series, they have their own kitchen and dining room. The Presidential Suite is designed with Georgian-style furniture to emulate that of the White House. It has three large bedrooms and three bathrooms, and boasts numerous treasures, including the desk of General MacArthur and rocking chair of John F. Kennedy.\n\nA fitness center is on the 5th floor. The $21.5 million Waldorf Astoria Guerlain Spa was inaugurated on September 1, 2008 on the 19th floor. It features 16 treatment rooms and two relaxation lounges. The hotel has its own Business Center, a digital facility, where guests can access the Internet and photocopy. In 2004 the hotel launched a line of products in keeping with the Art Deco style of the hotel, reportedly becoming the first individual hotel in the world to have its own merchandise collection.\n\nUnderneath the hotel is a private railway track and platform directly connected to the Grand Central Terminal, referred to as Track 61. However, it is not open to the public.\n\nThe Waldorf Astoria was the first hotel to offer room service and was the first major hotel in the world to hire women as chefs, beginning in 1931. An extensive menu is available for guests, with special menus for children and for dieters. The executive chef of the Waldorf for many years was John Doherty, following the Austrian Arno Schmidt who held the position for ten years from 1969 to 1979. Restaurateur George Lang was awarded the Hotelman of the Year Award in 1975. As of the early 1990s, the hotel served over three million dishes a year, and got through 27,000 pounds of lobster, 100 pounds of beluga caviar, 380,000 pints of strawberries annually. The hotel has gained significant renown for its lavish feasts. During one grand feast for Francis Cardinal Spellman, over 200 VIP guests, according to Arno Schmidt, devoured some 3,600 pounds of fillet, 600 pounds of fresh halibut, 1,500 pounds of potatoes, and 260 pounds of petit fours, eaten on gold china plates. One 1973 feast by the Explorer's Club devoured hippo meat, a alligator, a baby shark, an amberjack tuna, a boa, wild boar hams, 480 pieces of breaded-fried cod tongues and cheeks, antelope steaks, two boxes of Chinese rabbit, and 20 pounds of rattlesnake.\n\nThe hotel has three main restaurants, \"Peacock Alley\", \"The Bull and Bear Steak House\", and \"Oscar's Brasserie\", as well as a secondary restaurant, the Japanese \"Inagiku\". At its peak in the late 1940s, the hotel once had nine restaurants. \"Peacock Alley\", situated in the heart of the lobby, features an Art Deco design with gilded ceilings and includes a main restaurant, a bar and lounge, and three private dining salons. It is known primarily for its fish and seafood dishes. Sunday Brunch is particularly popular with locals and features over 180 gourmet dishes divided into 12 themed displays, with cuisine ranging from lobster and oysters to Belgian waffles, Eggs Benedict, and omelettes to hollandaise sauces. \"The Bull and Bear Steak House\" is furnished in richly polished mahogany in the English Regency style, and has a \"den-like\" atmosphere, and is reportedly the only restaurant on the East Coast which serves 28 days prime grade USDA Certified Angus Beef. It has won awards from the National Restaurant Association and \"Holiday\" magazine. Between 2007 and 2010, the restaurant was the filming location for \"Fox Business Happy Hour\", presented live between 5 and 6 pm. The \"Bull and Bear Bar\" is based on the original Waldorf Astoria Bar, which was a favorite haunt of many of the financial elite of the city from the hotel's inception in 1893, such as Diamond Jim Brady, Buffalo Bill Cody and Bat Masterson. Behind the bar are bronze statues of a bull and a bear, which represent the successful men of Wall Street. The \"Inagiku\", meaning the \"rice chrysanthemum\", serves contemporary Japanese cuisine. The restaurant opens for lunch on weekdays and cocktails and dinner in the evenings. Designed by Henry Look of San Francisco, the restaurant has four \"distinctly different\" rooms, including one which represents an old Japanese farmhouse, and the Kinagu Room, resembling a Japanese temple. Guests have the option to reserve private orthodox tatami rooms.\n\n\"Oscar's Brasserie\", overlooking Lexington Avenue in what was once a Savarin restaurant, is designed by Adam Tihany. The restaurant takes its name from Oscar Tschirky (Oscar of the Waldorf) and serves traditional American cuisine, with many dishes based upon his cookbook which have gained world renown, including the Waldorf salad, Eggs Benedict, Thousand Island dressing, and Veal Oscar. The Waldorf salad—a salad made with apples, walnuts, celery, grapes, and mayonnaise or a mayonnaise-based dressing—was first created in 1896 at the Waldorf by Oscar. The original recipe, however did not contain nuts, but they had been added by the time the recipe appeared in \"The Rector Cook Book\" in 1928. Tschirky was also noted for his \"Oscar's Sauce\", which became so popular that it was sold at the hotel. Another of the hotel's specialties was red velvet cake, which became one of its most popular desserts.\n\n\"Sir Harry's Bar\" is one of the principal bars of the hotel, situated just off the main lobby. It is named after British Sir Harry Johnston (1858–1927). In the 1970s the bar was renovated in a \"plush African safari\" design to honor Johnston, a notable explorer of Africa, with \"zebra-striped wall coverings and carpeting, with bent-cane furnishings\". It has since been redecorated back to a more conservative design, with walnut paneling and leather banquettes, and featured a by ebony bar as of the early 1990s. Frank Sinatra frequented \"Sir Harry's Bar\" for many years. In 1991, while drinking at \"Sir Harry's\" with Jilly Rizzo and Steve Lawrence, he was approached by a fan asking for an autograph. Sinatra responded, \"Don't you see I'm on my own time here? You asshole. What's wrong with you?\" The fan said something which angered Sinatra, who lunged at the fan, and Sinatra had to be restrained.\n\nAlbert Stevens Crockett, the hotel's veteran publicist and historian, wrote his first cocktail book \"Old Waldorf Bar Days\" in 1931 during Prohibition and the construction of the current hotel on Park Avenue. It was an homage to the original hotel and its famous bar and clientele. The book contains Crockett's takes on the original hand-written leather bound book of recipes that was given to him at the time of the closure by bartender Joseph Taylor. This edition was never reprinted.\n\nIn 1934, Crockett wrote a second book, \"The Old Waldorf Astoria Bar Book\", in response to the repeal of the Volstead Act and the end of the Prohibition era. He edited out most of the text from the first book. Drawing from his experiences as a travel writer, Crockett added nearly 150 more recipes, the bulk of which can be found in the \"Cuban Concoctions\" and \"Jamaican Jollifers\" chapters. These books became reference books on the subject of pre-Prohibition cocktails and its culture.\n\nIn 2016, the long-time hotel bar manager of Peacock Alley and La Chine, Frank Caiafa, added a completely new edition to the canon. Caiafa's \"The Waldorf Astoria Bar Book\" includes all of the recipes in Crockett's books; many of the hotel's most important recipes created since 1935; and his own creations. In 2017, it was nominated for a James Beard Foundation Award for Best Beverage Book.\n\nOther notable books with connections to the hotel include \"Drinks\" (1914) by Jacques Straub, a wine steward and friend of Oscar Tschirky who had written about the first hotel's notable recipes. Tschirky himself compiled a list of 100 recipes for his own book \"100 Famous Cocktails\" (1934), a selection of favorites from Crockett’s books. Finally, hotel publicist Ted Saucier wrote \"Bottoms Up\" in 1951, consisting of a compendium of popular, national recipes of the day.\n\nOn the 100th anniversary of the hotel in 1993, one publication wrote: \"It isn't the biggest hotel in New York, nor the most expensive. But when it comes to prestige, the Waldorf-Astoria has no peer. When presidents come to New York, they stay at the Waldorf-Astoria. Kings and queens make it their home away from home, as have people as diverse as Cary Grant, the Dalai Lama and Chris Evert. Some of them liked the hotel so well, they made their home there.\" From its inception, the Waldorf was always a \"must stay\" hotel for foreign dignitaries. The viceroy of China, Li Hung Chang stayed at the hotel in 1896 and feasted on hundred-year-old eggs which he brought with him. Over the years many royals from around the world stayed at the Waldorf Astoria including Shahanshah of Iran and Empress Farah, King Frederick IX and Queen Ingrid of Denmark, Princess Astrid of Norway, Crown Prince Olav and Crown Princess Martha of Norway, King Baudouin I of Belgium and Queen Fabiola, Prince Albert and Princess Paola of Belgium, King Hussein I of Jordan, Prince Rainier III and Princess Grace of Monaco, Queen Juliana of the Netherlands, King Michael of Romania, Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip of the Commonwealth realms, Mohammed Zahir Shah and Homaira Shah of Afghanistan, King Bhumibol Adulyadej and Queen Sirikit of Thailand, and Crown Prince Akihito and Princess Michiko of Japan and many others. Queen Elizabeth II and Prince Philip stayed at the hotel during their first visit to America on October 21, 1957, and a banquet was held for them in the Grand Ballroom. In the Bicentennial year in 1976, most of the heads of state from around the world and all of the Kings and Queens of Europe were invited to the hotel, and it also served the presidential candidates in the run up to the elections of that year. \n\nIn modern times, the clientele of the Waldorf is more typically wealthy politicians and businessmen than playboys and royalty. An entire floor was often rented out to wealthy Saudi Arabians with their own staff. Wealthy Japanese businessmen during their stay would sometimes remove the furniture and replace it with their own floors mats. One early wealthy resident was Chicago businessman J. W. Gates who would gamble on stocks on Wall Street and play poker at the hotel. He paid up to $50,000 a year to hire suites at the hotel. Princess Victoria Melita of Saxe-Coburg and Gotha was invited by Waldorf president Lucius Bloomer to stay at the hotel in the 1920s. Demands by people of prominence could often be exorbitant or bizarre, and Fidel Castro once walked into the hotel with a flock of live chickens, insisting that they be killed and freshly cooked on the premises to his satisfaction, only to be turned away. While serving as Secretary of State, Henry Kissinger ordered all of the antiques to be removed from one suite and replaced them with 36 desks for his staff. An unnamed First Lady also once demanded that all of the bulbs in her suite be changed to 100 watt ones and kept on all day and night to simulate daylight; she further insisted that there be an abundance of chewing gum available. \n\nPostmaster General James Farley occupied two adjoining suites in the current Waldorf Astoria during his tenure as the chairman of the board of Coca-Cola's International division from 1940 until his death in 1976, arguably one of the landmark's longest housed tenants. The Presidential Suite at the hotel come from when, during the 1950s and early 1960s, former U.S. president Herbert Hoover and retired U.S. General Douglas MacArthur lived in suites on different floors of the hotel. Hoover lived at the Waldorf Astoria for over 30 years from after the end of his presidency until he died in 1964; former President Dwight D. Eisenhower lived there until he died in 1969. MacArthur's widow, Jean MacArthur, lived there from 1952 until her death in 2000. A plaque affixed to the wall on the 50th Street side commemorates this. John F. Kennedy was fond of the Waldorf Astoria and had a number of private meetings at the hotel, including one with Israeli Prime Minister David Ben-Gurion. Since Hoover, every President of the United States has either stayed over or lived in the Waldorf Astoria, although Jimmy Carter claimed to have never stayed overnight at the hotel. Nancy Reagan was reputedly not fond of the Presidential Suite.\n\nThe official residence of the United States' Permanent Representative to the United Nations, an unnamed 42nd-floor apartment, has been located in the Waldorf Towers for many years. On June 17, 2015, however, the US Department of State announced that it was moving its headquarters during meetings of the UN General Assembly to The New York Palace Hotel. Although State Department officials did not give an official reason for the change affecting both the President and hundreds of American diplomats and support staff who travel to New York for the General Assembly each September and usually stay and hold meetings on two secured floors at the Waldorf, they pointed to Hilton Worldwide's sale of the Waldorf-Astoria to China's Beijing-based Anbang Insurance Group for $1.95 billion in 2014, a deal that prompted security concerns. While the terms of the sale allow Hilton to run the hotel for the next 100 years, they also call for \"a major renovation\" that the officials say has raised eyebrows in the US Government because of concerns about Chinese eavesdropping and cyber espionage.\nCarlos P. Romulo, Minister of Foreign Affairs of the Philippines and member of the UN had suite 3600, below Hoover's, for some 45 years from 1935 onwards, and former Philippine First Lady Imelda Marcos also spent much time and money at the hotel. Another connection with the Philippines is that many meetings were held here between President Manuel L. Quezon and high ranking American politicians and senators. Through the meetings, Quezon encouraged investment into the country and convinced General MacArthur to accompany him back to the Philippines as his military adviser.\n\nThe hotel has had many well-known under its roof throughout its history, including Charlie Chaplin, Ava Gardner, Liv Ullmann, Edward G. Robinson, Gregory Peck, Ray Bolger, John Wayne, Tony Bennett, Jack Benny, Katharine Hepburn, Spencer Tracy, Muhammad Ali, Vince Lombardi, Judy Garland, Sonny Werblin, Greer Garson, Harold Lloyd, Liberace, Burt Reynolds, Robert Montgomery, Cesar Romero, and many others. Due to the number of high-profile guests staying at the hotel at any one time, author Ward Morehouse III has referred to the Towers as a \"kind of vertical Beverly Hills. On any one given night you might find Dinah Shore, Gregory Peck, Frank Sinatra [or] Zsa Zsa Gabor staying there\". Gabor married Conrad Hilton in 1941. \n\nDuring the 1930s, gangster Benjamin \"Bugsy\" Siegel owned an apartment at the Waldorf, and Frank Costello was said to have got his haircut and nails done in the Barber's Shop at the Waldorf. Around the time of World War I, inventor Nikola Tesla lived in the earlier Waldorf-Astoria.\n\nIn 1955, Marilyn Monroe and her husband, Arthur Miller stayed at the hotel for several months, but due to costs of trying to finance her production company \"Marilyn Monroe Productions\", only being paid $1,500 a week for her role in \"The Seven Year Itch\" and being suspended from 20th Century Fox for walking out on Fox after creative differences, living at the hotel became too costly and Monroe had to move into a different hotel in New York City. Around the same time that Monroe lived in the hotel, Cole Porter and Linda Lee Thomas had an apartment in the Waldorf Towers, where Thomas died in 1954. Porter's 1934 song \"You're the Top\", contains the lyric, \"You're the top, you're a Waldorf salad\". The Cole Porter Suite, Suite 33A, was the place where Porter lived and entertained for a period. Frank Sinatra paid nearly $1 million a year to keep it as his personal suite at the hotel between 1979 and 1988, which he called \"home\" when out of Los Angeles. Sinatra took over part of the hotel during the filming of \"The First Deadly Sin\" in 1980.\n\nGrace Kelly and Rainier III were regular guests at the hotel. At one time Kelly was reputed to be in love with the hotel banquet manager of the Waldorf, Claudius Charles Philippe. Elizabeth Taylor frequented the hotel, and would often attend galas at the hotel to talk about her various causes. Her visits were excitedly awaited by the hotel staff, who would prepare long in advance. Taylor was honored at the 1983 Friars Club dinner at the hotel.\n\nIn 1980, John Travolta's brother Joey Travolta and Wendy Shawn, the daughter of comedian Dick Shawn, had their wedding reception at the hotel. Brooke Shields has stated that her very first encounter with the paparazzi was in the Grand Ballroom of the Waldorf at the age of 12, stating that she \"stood like a statue wondering why they were all hired to photograph me\", and that she \"debuted at the Waldorf\". During her childhood in the 1980s and 1990s, Paris Hilton lived with her family in the hotel.\n\nOne of the most prestigious, the most exclusive and the most famous debutante balls in the world is the invitation-only International Debutante Ball held biennially in the Grand Ballroom at the Waldorf Astoria Hotel in New York City, where girls from prominent world families are presented to high society. The International Debutante Ball has presented princesses, countesses, baronesses and many European royalty and aristocrats as debutantes to high society. Daughters and granddaughters of billionaire businessmen, American politicians, senators, congressmen, ambassadors and even many United States Presidents have also been presented at the International Debutante Ball.\n\nThe Waldorf Astoria has been a filming location for numerous films and TV series. Ginger Rogers headlined an all star ensemble cast in the 1945 film \"Week-End at the Waldorf\", set at the hotel and filmed partially on location there. Other films shot at the hotel include \"The Out-of-Towners\" (1970), \"Broadway Danny Rose\" (1984), \"Coming to America\" (1988), \"Scent of a Woman\" (1992), \"The Cowboy Way\" (1994), \"Random Hearts\" (1999), \"Analyze This\" (1999), \"For Love of the Game\" (1999), \"Serendipity\" (2001), \"The Royal Tenenbaums\" (2001), \"Maid in Manhattan\" (2002), \"Two Weeks Notice\" (2002), \"End of the Century\" (2005), \"Mr. and Mrs. Smith\" (2005), \"The Pink Panther\" (2006), and \"The Hoax\" (2006). Television series that have filmed at the Waldorf include \"Law and Order\", \"Rescue Me\", \"Sex and the City\", \"The Sopranos\" and \"Will and Grace\".\n\nSeveral biographies have been written about the Waldorf, including Edward Hungerford's \"Story of the Waldorf\" (New York: G. P. Putnam's Sons, 1925) and Horace Sutton's \"Confessions of a Grand Hotel: The Waldorf-Astoria\" (New York: Henry Holt, 1953).\nLangston Hughes wrote a poem entitled \"Advertisement for the Waldorf-Astoria\", criticizing the hotel and inviting the jobless and homeless to take over the space of the hotel. Wallace Stevens wrote a poem entitled \"Arrival at the Waldorf\", in which he contrasts the wild country of the jungles of Guatemala to being \"back at the Waldorf\". In Meg Cabot's novel \"Jinx\", the Chapman School Spring Formal takes place in the Waldorf-Astoria. It is at this point that Tory (the main antagonist) reveals Jean's first attempt at a love spell, which served as a catalyst for the novel's events.\n\nIn theatre, Terry Teachout's play \"Satchmo at the Waldorf\", is set in one of the hotel's rooms, during the time when Louis Armstrong played and stayed there.\n\n\nExplanatory notes\nCitations\nBibliography\nFurther reading\n\n"}
