{"id": "4240935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4240935", "title": "1963 Summer Universiade", "text": "1963 Summer Universiade\n\nThe 1963 Summer Universiade, also known as the III Summer Universiade, took place in Porto Alegre, Brazil.\n\n"}
{"id": "38260561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38260561", "title": "2013 Mediterranean Games", "text": "2013 Mediterranean Games\n\nThe 2013 Mediterranean Games (), officially known as the XVII Mediterranean Games (\"XVII Akdeniz Oyunları\"), was an international multi-sport event held in the tradition of the Mediterranean Games, as governed by the International Committee of Mediterranean Games (ICMG) (). The host city of the Games was Mersin, Turkey, as announced after an on-line poll conducted on 23 February 2011 by the ICMG. The games were held from 20 to 30 June 2013. Mersin is the second city in Turkey after İzmir to host the Mediterranean Games. All 24 member National Olympic Committees (NOCs) of the ICMG participated in the Games. The official programme for the Games is featuring events in 27 different sports.\n\nThe Mediterranean Games is a multi-sport event, much like the Summer Olympics (albeit on a much smaller scale), with participation exclusively from countries around the Mediterranean Sea where Europe, Africa and Asia meet. The Games started in 1951 and are held every four years. The idea of holding the Mediterranean Games originated with Muhammed Taher Pasha, who was the chairman of the Egyptian Olympic Committee and the vice-president of the International Olympic Committee (IOC), at a meeting during the 1948 London Olympics. The Games \"were designed specifically to bring together the Muslim and European countries surrounding the Mediterranean basin\" to promote understanding through sporting competition.\n\nThe first edition of the Mediterranean Games was held in the Egyptian city of Alexandria in 1951 and attracted 734 competitors from 10 nations. Initially the female athletes were not allowed to compete. Beginning by the fifth (1976) game in Tunis female athletes were also allowed. Turkey hosted the Games for the first time in 1971 in Izmir—the sixth edition of the Games.\n\nCities from three countries submitted their bids to host the 2013 Mediterranean Games. Two Greek cities, Volos and Larisa, made a combined bid. This was the fourth attempt by the Croatian city of Rijeka to host the Mediterranean Games. Rijeka had lost its bids in 1995 for the 1997 games, in 1999 for the 2001 games and in 2003 for the 2009 Mediterranean Games. The voting for the selection of the host of the 2013 Games was held in Pescara, Italy, host of the 2009 Mediterranean Games, on 27 October 2007. The election was conducted by the Mediterranean Games Bid Committee. At the end of the first round of voting, only Volos-Larisa and Rijeka remained; Mersin was eliminated after having received only thirteen votes. In the first round, Volos-Larisa and Rijeka received 31 and 24 votes, respectively. In the second round, the Greek bid of Volos-Larisa received enough votes to be elected as the host. The final round was comparatively more competitive, which was demonstrated by a three-vote difference between the final two bids.\n\nGreece was stripped of the hosting rights on 28 January 2011 because of its financial crisis. The ICMG cited Greece's inability to conform the organisational requirements as a reason for this action. Culture and Tourism Minister of Greece Pavlos Geroulanos said that the initially proposed budget \"would have wasted money on a big, spendthrift party, [and that] [t]here are much better things [they] could spend that money on in the current situation\". ICMG conducted an on-line poll on 23 February 2011 to decide the new host. Three cities—Tarragona, Tripoli and Mersin—offered to host the 2013 Mediterranean Games. Citizens of the 21 member nations of the ICMG cast their votes to select the host. Mersin was selected after it received more than half of the total votes, and on 4 March 2011, ICMG president Amar Addad officially handed over the hosting rights of the 2013 Games to Mersin.\n\nThe organising committee of the 2013 Mediterranean Games consists of eight members: president of the committee is Minister of Youth and Sports Suat Kılıç, Hakan Hakyemez, Governor of Mersin Hasan Basri Güzeloğlu, Mehmet Baykan, Mersin Metropolitan Municipality Mayor Macit Özcan, rector of the Mersin University K. Aydin Süha, Hasan Albayrak and president of the Turkish Olympic Committee Uğur Erdener. It is in charge of \"organising and controlling the essential preparations\".\n\nAfter the success of the bid in February 2011, the Ministry of Youth and Sports spent 215 million on building the venues and infrastructure up to 31 December 2012. The Ministry has allocated a budget of 400 million to cover building the venues and infrastructure for the Games; at least 100 million would be spent on the development of the Games village and the main stadium, and 200 million is assigned for other venues.\n\nThe official logo of this edition of the Mediterranean Games features a loggerhead sea turtle (\"Caretta caretta\") getting out of sea, with water underneath it. An orange is shown above its back, which represents the dry summer subtropical climate of Mediterranean.\n\nKaretta is the official mascot of the Mersin Games. The organisers of the 2013 Games have taken steps to promote the Games through its mascot. It was used in various events like the 34th Istanbul Marathon, Third Citrus Festival and others.\n\nThe main stadium of the 2013 Mediterranean Games is Mersin Olympic Stadium in Yenişehir district of Mersin. The stadium will host both the opening and closing ceremonies. A total of 38 venues will be used to host the events during the Games, 13 of them for training purposes only. The events will take place in several venues at different districts of Mersin and neighboring city of Adana.\n\nThere are significant changes in the programme for the Mersin Games in comparison to that of the 2009 Mediterranean Games held in Pescara. Three new sports, archery, badminton and taekwondo, are the special additions. The programme for the Games will feature a total of 27 different sports. Two disabled sports—athletics and swimming—will also be contested by the athletes with physical disabilities. Even though it was planned, equestrian competitions will not be held.\n\nAll 24 member countries of the ICMG participated in the Games. This would be the highest number of nations in any edition of the Mediterranean Games. The Republic of Macedonia made its début in the Games.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "92139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=92139", "title": "669 BC", "text": "669 BC\n\nThe year 669 BC was a year of the pre-Julian Roman calendar. In the Roman Empire, it was known as year 85 \"Ab urbe condita\" . The denomination 669 BC for this year has been used since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the prevalent method in Europe for naming years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55512564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55512564", "title": "Ann Brower", "text": "Ann Brower\n\nAnn Brower is an environmental geographer from New Zealand. A survivor of the 2011 Christchurch earthquake, she successfully lobbied for a law change to the Building Act, which was passed in 2016 as the Brower Amendment.\n\nBrower holds a Bachelor of Arts degree from Pomona College, California, a Masters in Forest Science from Yale University, a Masters in Political Science from the University of California, Berkeley and a PhD in Environmental Science, Policy, and Management from the University of California, Berkeley. Her specialist area is environmental policy, particularly in relation to state-owned lands and natural resources in the US, Australia, and New Zealand. She was formerly an associate professor in the Department of Environmental Management at Lincoln University, Canterbury, New Zealand and as of 2018 she is a senior lecturer in geography at the University of Canterbury.\n\nOn 22 February 2011, Brower was on a bus travelling along Colombo Street in the central city area of Christchurch when an earthquake struck. The parapet of unreinforced masonry on the building at 603 and 605 Colombo Street collapsed onto the street, crushing the bus and killing eight passengers and four passers-by. Brower survived and was rescued by members of the public and taken to hospital. \n\nLater in 2011, Brower testified at the Royal Commission of Inquiry into building performance in the Canterbury earthquakes. She also made a submission and spoke to the Parliamentary Select Committee considering the Commission's recommendations twice. She also wrote a number of opinion pieces which explained her policy recommendations and were published in the mainstream media.\n\nIn September 2015, Nick Smith, the Minister for Building and Housing, invited Brower to join him when he announced changes to the Building Act which were a result of Brower's advocacy: unreinforced buildings with façades and verandas that are in public spaces frequented by pedestrians and vehicles would be required to be assessed and repaired in half the normal time. Smith called Brower a \"true New Zealand hero\"; Mayor of Christchurch Lianne Dalziel also recognised Brower's bravery and persistence in pressing for change.\n\nIn 2018, it was announced that Brower had won the 2017 Critic & Conscience of Society Award from the Gama Foundation.\n\nBrower has published the following:\n"}
{"id": "39200107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39200107", "title": "Anne Williams (activist)", "text": "Anne Williams (activist)\n\nAnne Williams (6 February 1951 – 18 April 2013) was a campaigner for the victims of the Hillsborough disaster of 1989, in which 96 Liverpool football fans died at Hillsborough Stadium in Sheffield. \n\nWilliams fought hard for a new enquiry into the Hillsborough disaster of 1989, her actions being prompted by the death of her own son Kevin at Hillsborough, who had been crushed to death in the disaster. She was a mother of three from Formby who worked part-time in a newsagents, and levelled repeated attacks at the first Hillsborough inquest . Judith Moritz, a journalist for the BBC, said that although Williams had had no legal training, to talk to her, one would have thought that she had trained for years.\n\nIn December 2013, in honour of Williams' long campaigning for justice for her son Kevin and all the victims of Hillsborough, she was posthumously awarded the Helen Rollason Award at the BBC Sports Personality of the Year Awards. The honour was presented to her brother Danny, son Michael and daughter Sara by Alan Hansen, who had played for Liverpool on the day of the tragedy. She received a standing ovation from the gathered crowd.\n\nShe lived in Chester, and died of cancer at the age of 62 on 18 April 2013.\n"}
{"id": "8912319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8912319", "title": "BOSS GP", "text": "BOSS GP\n\nThe BOSS GP is a motor racing series in Europe. The category originated in 1995 as the BOSS series and evolved into the EuroBOSS Series.\n\nBOSS is an acronym that stands for Big Open Single Seaters.\n\nThe BOSS series was founded in 1995 under the regulations of the RAC Motor Sports Association and raced mainly in Great Britain. Later it was renamed to \"European BOSS\" (shortened by the competitors to EuroBOSS) following the involvement of Paul Stoddart's European Aviation and their expansion into European circuits. It mainly saw grids of around 12–15 cars but on occasions dropped as few as five cars have competed. Common EuroBOSS entries include Formula One machines from Benetton, Jordan, Tyrrell, Minardi and on occasions a V12 Ferrari has appeared. Other frequent entrants are Lola and Reynard CART chassis, the 1997-2002 Panoz (aka G-Force) and Dallara IndyCar chassis, and from 2012, the 2003-2011 Dallara and Panoz Champ Car chassis after the new INDYCAR formula began. The Panoz Champ Car DP01 chassis from 2007 is also now legal.\n\nAfter the 2009 season, drivers Marijn van Kalmthout, Klaas Zwart, Henk de Boer and Frits van Eerd decided to split off and organize their own race series. For 2010 EuroBOSS and BOSS GP both existed. EuroBOSS saw small fields and decided to cancel the last 3 rounds. BOSS GP, on the other hand, flourished with many drivers making the switch to the new series. Subsequently most of the entries have been recent secondary level single seaters such as GP2 cars and Renault World Series cars with a small number of Formula 1 cars. As of 2013 two rounds of the BOSS GP series form an official German championship sanctioned by the DMSB.\n\nEuroBOSS is the European equivalent of USBOSS and OZBOSS. EuroBOSS tends to have mainly F1 Cars, while USBOSS mainly comprises Indy and Champ Cars and OZBOSS tends to have Formula 4000 or equivalent.\n\nOver the years the classes have been updated. Nowadays relative new cars like the Dallara GP2/08 (GP2), Dallara T08 (WSbR) and Lola B05/52 (A1GP/Auto GP/FA1) are allowed in the series. For 2010 EuroBOSS allowed the Tatuus N.T07 International Formula Master car to race in the series. The car was never allowed in the BOSS GP series.\n"}
{"id": "38918043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38918043", "title": "B Street Theatre", "text": "B Street Theatre\n\nB Street Theatre is a 501c3 non-profit theater located in Sacramento, California. It was founded by actor Timothy Busfield in 1986 as Theatre for Children, Inc., the company’s first focus was a touring theatre company for children. The B Street Theatre School Tour (formerly known as Fantasy Theatre) was and continues to be extremely popular in the community— performing 12 times per week, 38 weeks a year. The School Tour has received critical acclaim by the media and educators. It is estimated that 3.6 million California children (currently about 200,000 per year) have attend performances since B Street Theatre's inception. For many children, The B Street Theatre School Tour is their only exposure to the live theatre in Northern California.\n\nIn 1991, in an effort to broaden the success of B Street Theatre School Tour, Timothy Busfield and his brother Buck Busfield created B Street Theatre. Most of the plays produced each year are world, national, West Coast or regional premieres. B Street Theatre has been named Best Live Theatre (14 consecutive years) by The Sacramento News & Review and Best Performing Arts Organization 13 times by Sacramento Magazine; B Street Theatre performs to approximately 70,000 adults annually.\n\nIn 2002, the company embarked on a third endeavor to allow families to experience live, professional theatre together. The B Street Theatre Family Series produces a four-show season of professional theatre presenting plays for school field trips during the week and the general public on weekends. Curriculum materials are developed for each Family Series production, and teachers are encouraged to develop classroom lessons based on themes from each play.\n\nIn addition to a professional touring theatre, B Street School Tour holds an annual playwriting festival and contest. The festival was created to provide a forum for the dramatic voice of youth and to conduct playwriting workshops that assist children in developing literary skills, problem- solving techniques, and a mode of artistic expression. This process stimulates the intellect and enhances self-esteem by providing validation of creative ideas and work support\n\nB Street Theatre School Tour For more than 20 years the mission of the B Street School Tour has been to provide entertainment to children while encouraging in them a love for the theatre and a specific appreciation for the art of playwriting. In addition to a professional touring theatre, B Street School Tour offers playwriting workshops and a playwriting contest for children in public and private schools, hospitals, and other locations throughout Northern California.\nAn average of 450 children attend each performance, (with 12 performances a week, 37 weeks a year more than 200,000 children experience live theatre each year). A concerted outreach effort is made to ensure that the rich experience of theatre is provided to underserved communities. Children experience a variety of theatrical styles as well as a wide range of thematic ideas, from social commentary and family drama to satire and farce.\n\nThe playwriting contest was created to provide a forum for the dramatic voice of youth and playwriting workshops assist children in developing literary skills, problem-solving techniques, and increased artistic expression. This process stimulates the intellect and enhances self-esteem by providing validation of creative ideas and work efforts.\n\nB Street Theatre Mainstage The B Street Theatre has been recognized as one of northern California’s top professional theatres. Seven new plays are presented each season to approximately 75,000 people.\n\nB Street Theatre Family Series The Family Series primarily serves children and their families through performances in the company’s “B2” 112-seat theater space. The Family Series is California’s only full-time, professional resident theater for children. Eight of The Family Series’ 12 weekly performances are designated for school field trips. The remaining four weekly performances are for the public. Four new plays are presented each season to approximately 25,000 school children and families.\n\nB3 Series The newest series of the B Street Theatre has a more serious and dramatic focus and features new contemporary plays for the sophisticated theatregoer. The B3 Series opened with a Pulitzer Prize winning drama on September 25, 2007 and presents four to five new plays each season. The B3 Series currently operates in the B2 space at alternate times than the scheduled Family Series productions.\n\nB Street Conservatory and Studio for Young Actors The B Street Conservatory provides classes in technique and scene study to adult actors discovering their unique talents. The Studio for Young Actors is a year-round theatre education program to foster creativity, confidence and team building for young people ages 7 to 17. Instructors are B Street company members who themselves have received rigorous training and have extensive regional and national acting credits.\n\nIntern Company The B Street Theatre Acting Internship is an intensive 10-month program that immerses young actors in every aspect of professional theatre. Interns are recent college graduates seeking their first post-college, professional theatre experience. The Intern Company experience provides four to eight talented young people with their first real “break” in the world of professional performing arts. In exchange for training and professional performing experience, interns provide the company with much needed assistance in the areas of administration as well as back and front of house operations.\n\nAfter getting a land grant from Sutter Medical Center, B Street Theatre started a Capital Campaign to build a new theater. The new theater is located at 27th and Capitol Avenue. The new Mainstage Theatre (Thrust Style) seats 250 patrons, and the Sutter Children’s Theatre (Proscenium Style) seats 365 - three times the past theatre's size, allowing the theater to bring art education to an additional 30,000 children the theatre presently cannot accommodate. The local economic impact is estimated to be at $40 million locally over first 5 years. Local architect, Ron Vrilakas, designed a \"come as you are\" theatre experience that resonates with the past theatre. Sutter Children’s Hospital is across the street in order to deepen the relationship between B Street and Sutter and further explore the restorative powers of theatre art for patients and their families. \n\nThe new performing arts complex in midtown Sacramento, named in honor of one of its key supporters – The Sofia Tsakopoulos Center for the Arts, affectionately known as The Sofia - opened in February 2018. The Sofia is home to B Street Theatre’s Mainstage (naming opportunity still available) and the Sutter Theatre for Children – California’s first year-round, professional theatre for children. In the same spirit of community from which B Street Theatre was born, Sutter Theatre has opened its doors to host the performances and events of local artists, community organizations, and visiting acts. In effect, this landmark facility will become an entertainment hub for all of Sacramento, where locals and tourists alike can see theatre, comedy, dance, or musical acts in an intimate, professional space every night of the year. In addition, its large public lobby, classrooms, open-air courtyard, and on-site restaurant make The Sofia a true destination.\n\n"}
{"id": "57033649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57033649", "title": "Balkan Photo Festival", "text": "Balkan Photo Festival\n\nBalkan Photo Festival is an annual photography festival held in Sarajevo, Bosnia and Herzegovina. It is held in January of every year and is the legal successor of the now-defunct \"Festival of Bosnian Photography\". The festival was established in 2010 by the Urban Foundation in cooperation with the Association of Professional Photographers of Bosnia and Herzegovina and the online photography journal \"fotografija.ba\". The 2011 edition was the first to be internationalized. Balkan Photo Festival is the largest photography festival in the Balkans, receiving more than 5,000 submissions annually. \n\nThe festival is composed of three main programs: competition, education and networking. The competition program is further composed of 11 categories out of which 11 eventual winners are chosen. The 11 categories are as follows: Nudity, Fashion, Cultural Heritage, Mobile Phone, Sports and Leisure, Portrait, Abstract, Nature and Landscapes, News and Politics, Press. Submissions for the competition program are accepted from the beginning of December with the final selection being made during the first week of January. The festival is opened on the last Monday of January with a large festival-long exhibition of all the photographs selected for the competition program. A panel made up of eminent international photographers judges the entries and decides on the winners. The winners receive the Balkan Photo Award in their category. The education program kicks off after the festival opening and is made up of lectures and workshops organized in numerous venues across the city. The networking program, which is of an informal nature, includes round table discussions, tours of the city called \"photo safaris\", interactive café lectures and concerts. The 2017 edition established the Justice for Every Child program in cooperation with UNICEF. \n\n\"Selected winners:\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57769883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57769883", "title": "Battle of Aradeti", "text": "Battle of Aradeti\n\nThe Battle of Aradeti was fought between the armies of the Kingdom of Georgia and the Principality of Samtskhe at the place of Aradeti on August 1483.\n\nThe political split of the Kingdom of Georgia was speeded up by the Eristavs of Samtskhe. In 1483, Atabeg Kvarkvare II routed the royal troops at Aradeti. These events signaled the end of the united Kingdom of Georgia, which disintegrated into several principalities. Kvarkvare gained his long sought independence in Samtskhe while Eristav Bagrat seized the thrones of Imereti and Kartli and Giorgi VIII carved out his own realm in Kakheti.\n"}
{"id": "38338900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38338900", "title": "Battle of Darayya (November 2012–February 2013)", "text": "Battle of Darayya (November 2012–February 2013)\n\nThe Battle of Darayya (November 2012–February 2013) was fought from the end of 2012 to the beginning of 2013 between the Syrian Army and the Syrian rebels in the Damascus suburbs of Darayya.\n\nDarayya is a suburb of Damascus where rebels have attempted to create a stronghold near Damascus center. In August 2012, the Syrian Army defeated the rebel forces and took control of the town. After the failed rebel offensive in late July 2012, the Syrian army started a campaign against rebels in Damascus suburb that led to a massacre in Darayya with an estimated 500 people were found executed, with rebels and government accusing each other of being responsible for the massacre.\n\nThe rebels again took control of the town in November 2012. Since, the city has been cut off, its electricity cut and has witnessed a continuous shelling. Most of the residents fled as soon as the battle started. The rebels were successful at preventing the Syrian Army from entering the town until mid-December when the Army started to intensify their attacks on the city and the nearby city of Moadmiyah.\n\nOn 20 December, after 30 days of siege, the newspaper Al Watan, close to the government, reported an army progress into Daraya, where the army penetrated the city and isolated rebels fighters in the city center. Al Watan added that most of the fighters were foreigners.\n\nOn the 31 December, the Army launched its biggest attack on the city, with columns of armed vehicles trying to progress into the city. The rebels attempts to hit the presidential palace and Alawites neighbourhood with their homemade rockets were one of the reason for the assault.\n\nOn 4 January, an opposition activist reported that the Syrian army was meeting a very strong resistance in Daraya, but that the Syrian soldiers managed to advance into the main street. The army was also firing from their artillery positions located in the Mount Qasioum on the orchards around Daraya.\n\nThe Syrian Observatory, a rebel group, told that the army was sending more reinforcement to Daraya, while Al Watan newspaper wrote that the Army won the Daraya battle.\n\nOn 5 January, the Syrian Army arrested Mohamed Zawahiri, the brother of the supreme leader of Al Qaida in Daraya. Russian today Arabic correspondent was slightly injured when he fell on his hand while running to avoid being caught in crossfire. His report showed the army in control and patrolling most of the town. Rebels spread into different areas of Darayaa and the army still needed several mopping up operation to declare the area as safe. On the same day, the pro-opposition group the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights reported that 10 people died in the fighting, including 6 rebels.\n\nOn 6 January, the Syrian army killed a number of rebels near the Al Qasheia school in Daraya, and named the following rebels Odai al-Ward, Ahed Radwan, Moutez Mansour, Khaled al-khateeb, Omar Madwa, Tareq al-Dabbas, and Muhammed Tabow as being among the dead. Several other rebel groups were killed by the army in the other Damascus suburbs, including 12 who were named by the Army.\n\nOn 8 January, the Syrian Observatory for Human Rights stated that the Syrian Army had taken control of parts of Daraya and was sending more soldiers to push for the full conquest of the town.\n\nOn 13 January, concording sources, from security officials to rebels groups revealed that the Syrian Army had taken much of Daraya, entering most of the neighbourhoods.\n\nOn 19 January, it was reported that the rebels were still in control of parts of Daraya in spite of fierce clashes and heavy shelling by government forces. Rebels also claimed that a MiG pilot in Daraya had defected and used his fighter jet to bombard three Army positions in the area, killing 15 soldiers of the 4th Syrian Army Brigade. Although this was not independently confirmed.\n\nThe rebel commander Abu Ali was killed in the shelling of rebels positions.\n\nOn 24 January, the government was shelling Daraya from positions on the Qasioun mountain range west of Damascus.\n\nOn 14 February, the Syrian Army attempted to push further into Darayya, but rebels were able to repel the offensive.\n\nIn early August, state media reportedly showed that al-Assad visited his troops in Darayya, although SOHR was reporting the Syrian army shelling Darayya as recently as late June, and opposition activists report fighting as recently as mid-July. Additionally, Russia Today reported one of its journalist was wounded the same week in Darayya from rebels within the city firing mortars back. On 30 December 2013, Syrian government helicopter gunship targeted Darayya with three barrel bombs. The barrel bombs landed near Al-Ansari and Al-Mustafa mosques, in the western part of the city, which has been under a tight siege by government forces for over a year.\n\n"}
{"id": "9405019", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9405019", "title": "Besançon International Music Festival", "text": "Besançon International Music Festival\n\nThe Besançon International Music Festival () is one of the oldest festivals of classical music that takes place in the city of Besançon, northeastern France, over two weeks from around the middle of September. It was created in 1948.\n\nIt is particularly known for its International Besançon Competition for Young Conductors (\"Concours international de jeunes chefs d'orchestre\") created in 1951, which is organized every two years and rewarded famous conductors such as Seiji Ozawa (1959), Michel Plasson (1962), Zdeněk Mácal (1965), Jesús López-Cobos (1968), Sylvain Cambreling (1974) or Yutaka Sado (1989), who began their international careers with its first prize.\nThe Besançon festival is held in French.\n\n"}
{"id": "27358131", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27358131", "title": "Bocholt disaster", "text": "Bocholt disaster\n\nThe Bocholt disaster refers to the collapse of Spinnerei Beckmann cotton mill, in Bocholt, Germany, shortly before its completion in 1895. Franz Beckmann, through the offices of Platt Brothers of Oldham, had commissioned Sydney Stott to draw up plans for a mule spinning mill. The foundations were faulty and the mill collapsed on 18 October 1895. There were 22 men killed.\n"}
{"id": "260979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=260979", "title": "Bribery", "text": "Bribery\n\nBribery is the act of giving or receiving something of value in exchange for some kind of influence or action in return, that the recipient would otherwise not alter. Bribery is defined by \"Black's Law Dictionary\" as the offering, giving, receiving, or soliciting of any item of value to influence the actions of an official or other person in charge of a public or legal duty. Essentially, bribery is offering to do something for someone for the expressed purpose of receiving something in exchange. \nGifts of money or other items of value which are otherwise available to everyone on an equivalent basis, and not for dishonest purposes, is not bribery. Offering a discount or a refund to all purchasers is a legal rebate and is not bribery. For example, it is legal for an employee of a Public Utilities Commission involved in electric rate regulation to accept a rebate on electric service that reduces their cost for electricity, when the rebate is available to other residential electric customers. Giving the rebate to influence them to look favorably on the electric utility's rate increase applications, however, would be considered bribery.\n\nA bribe is the gift bestowed to influence the recipient's conduct. It may be money, goods, rights in action, property, preferment, privilege, emolument, objects of value, advantage, or merely a promise to induce or influence the action, vote, or influence of a person in an official or public capacity.\n\nMany types of payments or favors can constitute bribes: tip, gift, sop, perk, skim, favor, discount, waived fee/ticket, free food, free ad, free trip, free tickets, sweetheart deal, kickback/payback, funding, inflated sale of an object or property, lucrative contract, donation, campaign contribution, fundraiser, sponsorship/backing, higher paying job, stock options, secret commission, or promotion (rise of position/rank).\n\nOne must be careful of differing social and cultural norms when examining bribery. Expectations of when a monetary transaction is appropriate can differ from place to place. Political campaign contributions in the form of cash, for example, are considered criminal acts of bribery in some countries, while in the United States, provided they adhere to election law, are legal. Tipping, for example, is considered bribery in some societies, while in others the two concepts may not be interchangeable.\n\nIn some Spanish-speaking countries, bribes are referred to as \"mordida\" (literally, \"bite\"). In Arab countries, bribes may be called baksheesh (a tip, gift, or gratuity) or \"shay\" (literally, \"tea\"). French-speaking countries often use the expressions \"dessous-de-table\" (\"under-the-table\" commissions), \"pot-de-vin\" (literally, \"wine-pot\"), or \"commission occulte\" (\"secret commission\" or \"kickback\"). While the last two expressions contain inherently a negative connotation, the expression \"dessous-de-table\" can be often understood as a commonly accepted business practice. In German, the common term is \"Schmiergeld\" (\"smoothing money\").\n\nThe offence may be divided into two great classes: the one, where a person invested with power is induced by payment to use it unjustly; the other, where power is obtained by purchasing the suffrages of those who can impart it. Likewise, the briber might hold a powerful role and control the transaction; or in other cases, a bribe may be effectively extracted from the person paying it, although this is better known as extortion.\n\nThe forms that bribery take are numerous. For example, a motorist might bribe a police officer not to issue a ticket for speeding, a citizen seeking paperwork or utility line connections might bribe a functionary for faster service.\n\nBribery may also take the form of a secret commission, a profit made by an agent, in the course of his employment, without the knowledge of his principal. Euphemisms abound for this (commission, sweetener, kick-back etc.) Bribers and recipients of bribery are likewise numerous although bribers have one common denominator and that is the financial ability to bribe.\n\nAccording to BBC news U.K, \"bribery around the world is estimated at about $1 trillion (£494bn)\".\n\nAs indicated on the pages devoted to political corruption, efforts have been made in recent years by the international community to encourage countries to dissociate and incriminate as separate offences, active and passive bribery. From a legal point of view, active bribery can be defined for instance as \"the promising, offering or giving by any person, directly or indirectly, of any undue advantage [to any public official], for himself or herself or for anyone else, for him or her to act or refrain from acting in the exercise of his or her functions.\" (article 2 of the Criminal Law Convention on Corruption (ETS 173) of the Council of Europe). Passive bribery can be defined as \"the request or receipt [by any public official], directly or indirectly, of any undue advantage, for himself or herself or for anyone else, or the acceptance of an offer or a promise of such an advantage, to act or refrain from acting in the exercise of his or her functions\" (article 3 of the Criminal Law Convention on Corruption (ETS 173)).\n\nThe reason for this dissociation is to make the early steps (offering, promising, requesting an advantage) of a corrupt deal already an offence and, thus, to give a clear signal (from a criminal policy point of view) that bribery is not acceptable. Besides, such a dissociation makes the prosecution of bribery offences easier since it can be very difficult to prove that two parties (the bribe-giver and the bribe-taker) have formally agreed upon a corrupt deal. Besides, there is often no such formal deal but only a mutual understanding, for instance when it is common knowledge in a municipality that to obtain a building permit one has to pay a \"fee\" to the decision maker to obtain a favourable decision.\n\nA grey area may exist when payments to smooth transactions are made. United States law is particularly strict in limiting the ability of businesses to pay for the awarding of contracts by foreign governments; however, the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act contains an exception for \"grease payments\"; very basically, this allows payments to officials in order to obtain the performance of ministerial acts which they are legally required to do, but may delay in the absence of such payment. In some countries, this practice is the norm, often resulting from a developing nation not having the tax structure to pay civil servants an adequate salary. Nevertheless, most economists regard bribery as a bad thing because it encourages rent seeking behaviour. A state where bribery has become a way of life is a kleptocracy.\n\nRecent evidence suggests that the act of bribery can have political consequences- with citizens being asked for bribes becoming less likely to identify with their country, region and/or tribal unit.\n\nThe tax status of bribes is an issue for governments since the bribery of government officials impedes the democratic process and may interfere with good government. In some countries, such bribes are considered tax-deductible payments. However, in 1996, in an effort to discourage bribery, the OECD Council recommended that member countries cease to allow the tax-deductibility of bribes to foreign officials. This was followed by the signing of the Anti-Bribery Convention . Since that time, the majority of the OECD countries which are signatories of the convention have revised their tax policies according to this recommendation and some have extended the measures to bribes paid to any official, sending the message that bribery will no longer be tolerated in the operations of the government.\n\nAs any monetary benefit received from an illegal activity such as bribery is generally considered part of one’s taxable income, however, as its criminal, some governments may refuse to accept it as income as it may mean they are a party to the activity. \n\nPharmaceutical corporations may seek to entice doctors to favor prescribing their drugs over others of comparable effectiveness. If the medicine is prescribed heavily, they may seek to reward the individual through gifts. The American Medical Association has published ethical guidelines for gifts from industry which include the tenet that physicians should not accept gifts if they are given in relation to the physician’s prescribing practices. Doubtful cases include grants for traveling to medical conventions that double as tourist trips.\n\nDentists often receive samples of home dental care products such as toothpaste, which are of negligible value; somewhat ironically, dentists in a television commercial will often state that they get these samples but pay to use the sponsor's product.\n\nIn countries offering state-subsidized or nationally funded healthcare where medical professionals are underpaid, patients may use bribery to solicit the standard expected level of medical care. For example, in many formerly Communist countries from what used to be the Eastern Bloc it may be customary to offer expensive gifts to doctors and nurses for the delivery of service at any level of medical care in the non-private health sector.\n\nPoliticians receive campaign contributions and other payoffs from powerful corporations, organizations or individuals in return for making choices in the interests of those parties, or in anticipation of favorable policy, also referred to as lobbying. This is not illegal in the United States and forms a major part of campaign finance, though it is sometimes referred to as the money loop. However, in many European countries, a politician accepting money from a corporation whose activities fall under the sector they currently (or are campaigning to be elected to) regulate would be considered a criminal offence, for instance the \"Cash-for-questions affair\" and \"Cash for Honours\" in the United Kingdom. A grey area in these democracies is the so-called \"revolving door\", whereby politicians are offered highly-paid, often consultancy jobs upon their retirement from politics by the corporations they regulate while in office, in return for enacting legislation favourable to the corporation whilst in office - a conflict of interest. Convictions for this form of bribery are easier to obtain with hard evidence, that is a specific amount of money linked to a specific action by the recipient of the bribe. Such evidence is frequently obtained using undercover agents, since evidence of a quid pro quo relation can often be difficult to prove. See also influence peddling and political corruption.\nRecent evidence suggests that demands for bribes can adversely impact citizen level of trust and engagement with the political process.\n\nEmployees, managers, or salespeople of a business may offer money or gifts to a potential client in exchange for business.\n\nFor example, in 2006, German prosecutors conducted a wide-ranging investigation of Siemens AG to determine if Siemens employees paid bribes in exchange for business.\n\nIn some cases where the system of law is not well-implemented, bribes may be a way for companies to continue their businesses. In the case, for example, custom officials may harass a certain firm or production plant, officially stating they are checking for irregularities, halting production or stalling other normal activities of a firm. The disruption may cause losses to the firm that exceed the amount of money to pay off the official. Bribing the officials is a common way to deal with this issue in countries where there exists no firm system of reporting these semi-illegal activities. A third party, known as a White Glove, may be involved to act as a clean middleman.\n\nSpecialist consultancies have been set up to help multinational companies and small and medium enterprises with a commitment to anti-corruption to trade more ethically and benefit from compliance with the law.\n\nContracts based on or involving the payment or transfer of bribes (\"corruption money\", \"secret commissions\", \"pots-de-vin\", \"kickbacks\") are void.\n\nIn 2012, \"The Economist\" noted:\n\nIn addition, a survey conducted by auditing firm Ernst & Young (EY) in 2012 found that 15 percent of top financial executives are willing to pay bribes in order to keep or win business. Another 4 percent said they would be willing to misstate financial performance. This alarming indifference represents a huge risk to their business, given their responsibility.\n\nReferees and scoring judges may be offered money, gifts, or other compensation to guarantee a specific outcome in an athletic or other sports competition. A well-known example of this manner of bribery in the sport would be the 2002 Olympic Winter Games figure skating scandal, where the French judge in the pairs competition voted for the Russian skaters in order to secure an advantage for the French skaters in the ice dancing competition.\n\nAdditionally, bribes may be offered by cities in order to secure athletic franchises, or even competitions, as happened with the 2002 Winter Olympics. It is common practice for cities to \"bid\" against each other with stadiums, tax benefits, and licensing deals.\n\nThe U.S. introduced the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act in 1977 to address bribery of foreign officials. The Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, was introduced to prevent the influencing of foreign officials by companies through rewards or payments. This legislation dominated international anti-corruption enforcement until around 2010 when other countries began introducing broader and more robust legislation, notably the United Kingdom Bribery Act 2010. The International Organization for Standardization introduced an international anti-bribery management system standard in 2016. In recent years, cooperation in enforcement action between countries has increased.\n\nUnder 18 U.S. Code § 201 - Bribery of public officials and witnesses, the law strictly prohibits any type of promising, giving, or offering of value to a public official. A public official is further defined as anyone who holds public or elected office. Another stipulation of the law in place condemns the same kind of offering, giving, or coercing a witness in a legal case to changing their story. The minimum penalty for either of these offenses is 10 years, and a potential fine. \n\nPrograms of prevention need to be properly designed and meet with international standards of best practice. To ensure respect for a program, whether it be on the part of employees or business partners, external verification is necessary. International best practices such as the Council for Further Combating Bribery of Foreign Public Officials in International Business Transactions, Annex 2; the ISO 26000 norm (section 6.6.3) or TI Business Principles for Countering Bribery are used in external verification processes to measure and ensure that a program of bribery prevention works and is consistent with international standards. Another reason for businesses to undergo external verification of their bribery prevention programs is that it means evidence can be provided to assert that all that was possible was done to prevent corruption. Companies are unable to guarantee corruption has never occurred; what they can do is provide evidence that they did their best to prevent it.\n\nThere is no federal statute under the U.S Law that prohibits or regulates any type of private or commercial bribery. There is a way for prosecutors to try people for bribery by using existing laws. Section 1346 of Title 18 can be used by prosecutors, to try people for ‘a scheme or artifice to deprive another of the intangible right to honest services,’ under the mail and wire fraud statutes. Prosecutors have always successfully prosecuted private company employees for breaching a fiduciary duty and taking bribes, under Honest services fraud.\n\nThere are also cases of successful prosecution of bribery in the case of international business. The DOJ has used the Travel Act, 18 USC Section 1952 to prosecute bribery. Under the Travel Act, it is against the law, domestically and internationally, to utilize‘the mail or any facility in interstate or foreign commerce’ with intent to ‘promote, manage, establish, carry on, or facilitate the promotion, management, establishment or carrying on, of any unlawful activity’. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "24903597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24903597", "title": "Commission of Responsibilities", "text": "Commission of Responsibilities\n\nThe Commission on the Responsibility of the Authors of the War and on Enforcement of Penalties was a commission established at the Paris Peace Conference, in 1919. Its role was to examine the background of the First World War, and to investigate and recommend individuals for prosecution for committing war crimes.\n\nDuring the First World War, the Allied governments had decided to try defeated leaders whom they considered responsible for violations of international law and the laws of war. For that purpose, it was decided to establish an expert committee to make recommendations to that effect. Following the conclusion of the Armistice in November 1918, preparations began. The defeated German government officially concurred with the initiative on grounds that:\n\nA complete truthful account of the world conditions and of the negotiations among the powers in July 1914 and of the steps taken at that time by the several governments could and would go far toward demolishing the walls of hatred and misconstruction erected by the long war to separate the peoples.\n\nIn addition, the German government proposed the establishment of a neutral committee of experts to study the matter. The Allied governments refused, claiming that: \nthey [the Allied governments] do not consider that the German proposal requires any reply as the responsibility of Germany for the war has been long ago incontestably proved.\nThe commission was established at the conference plenary session of 25 January 1919, and consisted of representatives of the five major Allied powers – the USA, the British Empire, France, Italy, and Japan – with the addition of Belgium, Greece, Poland, Romania and Serbia (later: Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes). Its members were as follows:\n\nUSA:\n\nBritish Empire:\n\nFrance:\n\nItaly:\n\nJapan:\n\nBelgium:\n\nGreece:\n\nPoland:\n\nRomania:\n\nSerbia (later: Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes):\n\nThe Commission was divided into three sub-commissions as follows:\n\nThe Commission submitted its report on 29 March 1919. It concluded that blame for the war lay in the first instance with the governments of Germany and Austria-Hungary, and secondly with those of Bulgaria and Turkey. It recommended the establishment of an additional commission for a more exhaustive study of the alleged crimes of the defeated powers. It further recommended the establishment of an international tribunal for the prosecution of suspected war criminals, with no immunity from prosecution even for defeated heads of state. It recommended that the tribunal should consist of 22 judges, three from each of the five major powers and an additional six from other countries.\n\nThe US delegates submitted their own opinion on 4 April 1919, expressing their reservations on the report. They suggested refraining from prosecuting heads of state, and focusing instead on lower levels of the government and military. They also suggested that defeated leaders or commanders should not be charged with acts not considered criminal at the time of their commission, i.e. that rules of conduct should not be imposed retroactively. They also argued that there should not be a permanent international tribunal for war crimes, but that, following any future war, such a tribunal should be established by the governments of the nations directly affected.\n\nOn the same day the US delegation submitted its minority opinion, the Japanese delegation submitted its own reservations. The Japanese delegation's main reservation was about the demand to indict heads of state for violations.\n\nThe Commission's recommendations were not carried through at the time. The proposed international tribunal for war crimes was not established, because of the refusal of the German government to cooperate. Instead, a few German individuals accused of war crimes were tried in 1921 at the Leipzig War Crimes Trials by the German authorities themselves. However, the recommendations did bear fruit in the longer term. Following the Second World War, two international Allied tribunals were established in Nuremberg and Tokyo to try German and Japanese leaders accused of war crimes. The demand for a permanent tribunal for crimes against humanity continued even after those tribunals had been dissolved, leading eventually to the establishment of the International Criminal Court in 2002.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22167652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22167652", "title": "Compromise of Nobles", "text": "Compromise of Nobles\n\nThe Compromise of Nobles (; ) was a covenant of members of the lesser nobility in the Habsburg Netherlands who came together to submit a petition to the Regent Margaret of Parma on 5 April 1566, with the objective of obtaining a moderation of the \"placards\" against heresy in the Netherlands. This petition played a crucial role in the events leading up to the Dutch Revolt and the Eighty Years' War.\n\nThe ruler of the Habsburg Netherlands, a conglomerate of duchies and counties and lesser fiefs, was Philip II of Spain. He had appointed his half-sister Margaret of Parma as his Regent. She ruled with the assistance of a Council of State which included a number of the high nobility of the country, like the Prince of Orange, Egmont, Horne, Aerschot and Noircarmes. From time to time (whenever she needed money) she convened the States-General of the Netherlands in which the several estates of the provinces were represented, such as the lesser nobility and the cities, but most of the time the States-General was not in session and the Regent ruled alone, together with her Council.\n\nLike his father Charles V, Philip was very much opposed to the Protestant teachings of Martin Luther, John Calvin and the Anabaptists, which had gained many adherents in the Netherlands by the early 1560s. To suppress Protestantism he had promulgated extraordinary ordinances, called \"placards\", that outlawed them and made them capital offenses. Because of their severity these \"placards\" caused growing opposition among the population, both Catholic and Protestant. Opposition, even among Catholics, was generated because the \"placards\" were seen as breaches of the constitutional privileges of the local authorities and the civil liberties of the people, like the \"Jus de non evocando\", as enshrined in the \"Joyous Entry\", the constitution of the Duchy of Brabant, to mention a prominent example. For that reason local authorities regularly protested against the \"placards\" and the way they were implemented in 1564 and later years. That these protests were systematically ignored and the \"placards\" stringently enforced only helped intensify the opposition.\n\nThis unrest motivated the Brussels government to send Lamoral, Count of Egmont, to Spain to plead for relaxation of the ordinances. Philip replied negatively in his Letters from the Segovia Woods of October 1565. That led to a gathering of some members of the lesser nobility at the house of Floris, Count of Culemborg, in December 1565. There, they drew up a petition containing a protest against the enforcement of the \"placards\". It was probably drafted by Philips of Marnix, Lord of Saint-Aldegonde, and it was initially signed by Henry, Count of Bréderode, Louis of Nassau and Count Charles of Mansfeld.\nThe draft was widely circulated and gathered a large number of signatures. The magnates of the nobility at first kept aloof (though Orange must have been in the know through his brother Louis). On 24 January 1566, however, Orange addressed a letter to the Regent, as a member of the Council, in which he offered his unsolicited opinion that a moderation of the \"placards\" would be desirable, in view of the toleration now practiced in neighboring lands, like France. He also pointed to the social unrest caused by the famine that scourged the country in that year and remarked that the \"placards\" were bound to cause trouble in this context. For good measure he threatened to resign if something along these lines was not done.\n\nThe leaders of the association that supported the draft petition met in Breda at the house of Antoine II de Lalaing, Count of Hoogstraten (another member of the Council of State) to work out a way that was acceptable to the government to present the petition. Finally, on 5 April 1566, a long procession of 300 signers of the petition walked through Brussels to the Regent's court. There Brederode read the petition aloud to the Regent, who became very agitated. Afterwards, when the Regent met with the Council of State, Orange tried to calm her, and another member, Charles de Berlaymont, allegedly remarked \"N'ayez pas peur Madame, ce ne sont que des gueux\" (fear not madam, they are nothing but beggars). \n\nIn the petition the nobles, who presented themselves as loyal subjects of the king, asked him to suspend the Inquisition and the enforcement of the \"placards\" against heresy. They also urged the convening of the States-General so that \"better legislation\" could be devised to address the matter.\n\nOn the advice of the moderates in the Council, like Orange, the Regent replied to the petitioners that she would forward it to the king and that she would support its requests. Brederode handed over a supplementary petition on 8 April, in which the petitioners promised to keep the peace while the petition was being sent to Spain, a journey that could take weeks. He assumed that meanwhile the requested suspension of enforcement would be in effect. That evening the petitioners held a banquet at which they toasted the king and themselves as \"beggars\". Henceforth the \"Geuzen\" would be the name of their party.\n\nThe king took a long time to react to the petition, and when he finally did, he rejected its requests. Meanwhile a large number of Protestants had returned from exile, and other Protestants now dared come out into the open. Large numbers of Protestants, especially Calvinists, started holding prayer meetings outside the walls of many cities. These open-air sermons by Calvinist preachers, though initially peaceful, caused much anxiety for the local and central authorities. In August 1566, in the depressed industrial area around Steenvoorde a rash of attacks on Catholic church property started, in which religious statuary was destroyed by irate Calvinists, for whom those statues contravened the Second Commandment against graven images. Soon this Beeldenstorm or Iconoclastic Fury engulfed the entire country. Though the central authorities eventually suppressed this insurrection, it led to the severe repression by the Duke of Alba that would precipitate the Dutch Revolt and Eighty Years' War.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5590771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5590771", "title": "Concert T-shirt", "text": "Concert T-shirt\n\nA concert T-shirt is a T-shirt that is associated with a concert or a concert tour, often for a rock or metal band. Bands and musical groups often promote themselves by creating and selling or giving away T-shirts at their shows, tours, and events. A concert T-shirt typically contains silk screened graphics of the name, logo, or image of a musical performer or group. One popular choice of graphics on the rear of the T-shirts is a listing of information about the band's current tour, including tour cities (sometimes specifying venues) and corresponding dates. In the 1960s, printed T-shirts gained popularity for self-expression as well for advertisements, protests, and souvenirs. In 1968, rock producer Bill Graham co-founded Winterland Productions, credited as \"the first concert T-shirt manufacturing company\".\n\nOne of the most popular colors for concert T-shirts is a flat black. Fans often purchase or obtain these shirts to wear to future concerts.\n\nWearing a concert T-shirt is a cultural signifier, with commentators identifying various reasons behind the choice to wear a particular one. For example, attending a band's concert while wearing a T-shirt from one of the band's tours long ago can give the wearer a certain prestige amongst other fans, it being indicative of the longevity of their support for the group.\n\nScreen printing or silk screening is the method of printing designs on T-shirts. The process begins by stretching a fine mesh around a rigid frame. Afterwards, a template is attached to the screen. The template covers the portions not to be printed. The completed screen is placed over a T-shirt, and ink is then pressed through the screen, leaving a print. Multiple templates can be used on the same shirt to create a multicolored screen print. Screen printing is one of the most commonly used techniques for putting a design on a T-shirt.\n\n"}
{"id": "4859547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4859547", "title": "Confession of Peter", "text": "Confession of Peter\n\nIn Christianity, the Confession of Peter (anglicized from the Matthean Vulgate Latin section title: \"Confessio Petri\") refers to an episode in the New Testament in which the Apostle Peter proclaims Jesus to be the Christ (Jewish Messiah). The proclamation is described in the three Synoptic Gospels: , and . Specifically, Peter declares, \"You are the Christ, the Son of the living God.\"\n\nThe proclamation of Jesus as Christ is fundamental to Christology; the Confession of Peter and Jesus' acceptance of the title \"Messiah\" form a definitive statement in the New Testament narrative regarding the person of Jesus Christ. In this New Testament narrative, Jesus not only accepts the titles Christ and \"Son of God\", but declares the proclamation a divine revelation by stating that his Father in Heaven had revealed it to Peter, unequivocally declaring himself to be both Christ and the Son of God.\n\nIn the same passage Jesus also selects Peter as the leader of the Apostles, and states: \"Upon this rock I will build my church\". Most Christian denominations agree that the statement applies to Peter, but they diverge on their interpretations of what happens after Peter.\n\nThe Confession of Peter is also the name of a liturgical feastday celebrated by several Christian churches, often as part of the Week of Prayer for Christian Unity.\n\nIn the New Testament, this pericope and the account of the Transfiguration of Jesus which follows it appear towards the middle of the Gospel narrative and jointly mark the beginnings of the gradual disclosure of the identity of Jesus to his disciples.\n\nThe setting is near Caesarea Philippi in northern Palestine and is at the beginning of the final journey to Jerusalem which ends in the Crucifixion and Resurrection of Jesus.\n\nPeter's Confession begins as a dialogue between Jesus and his disciples in , and . Jesus begins to ask about the current opinions about himself among \"the multitudes\", asking: \"Who do the multitudes say that I am?\" The disciples provide a variety of the common hypotheses at the time, ranging from John the Baptist to Elijah, Jeremiah, or one of the (other) prophets. The Cambridge Bible for Schools and Colleges, following Jewish medieval rabbi David Kimhi and theologican John Lightfoot, suggests that Jeremiah \"is mentioned as a representative of the Prophets, because in the Jewish Canon the book of Jeremiah came first of the Prophets, following the books of Kings.\"\n\nEarlier in the Gospel narrative, these hypotheses about Jesus' identity were provided in by those in the court of Herod Antipas when he wondered if Jesus was John the Baptist restored to life.\n\nIn the three Gospel accounts, after asking about the views of \"the multitudes\", Jesus asks his disciples about their own opinion: \"But who do you say that I am?\" Only Simon Peter answers him: \"You are the Christ, the Son of the living God\".\n\nOnly in Jesus blesses Peter for his answer, and later indicates this revelation is the foundational rock of the Church. This begins with:\nBlessed art thou, Simon Bar-jonah: for flesh and blood hath not revealed it unto thee, but my Father who is in heaven.\nIn blessing Peter, Jesus not only accepts the titles \"Christ\" and \"Son of God\" which Peter attributes to him, but declares the proclamation a divine revelation by stating that his Father in Heaven had revealed it to Peter. In this assertion, by endorsing both titles as divine revelation, Jesus unequivocally declares himself to be both Christ and the Son of God.\n\nThe reference to \"my Father\" is distinguished in that in the New Testament, Jesus never includes other individuals in such references and only refers to \"his\" Father, however when addressing the disciples he uses \"your\" Father, excluding himself from the reference.\n\nIn Jesus then continues:\n\nAnd I say also unto thee, That thou art Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church; and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. And I will give unto thee the keys of the kingdom of heaven.\nThe word \"Peter\" in this verse is, in Greek, \"petros\", while this \"rock\" is \"petra\". It is a play on words, but if the original language was Aramaic the word in both cases is simply \"kepha\". A distinction that petros meant a stone and petra a solid piece of rocky ground is sometimes suggested, but Greek use in antiquity seems to have been less precise. \n\nThe word \"church\" (\"ekklesia\" in Greek), as used here, appears in the Gospels only once more, in , and refers to the community of believers at the time. The \"gates of hell\" (of Hades) refers to the underworld, and the abode of the dead, and refers to the powers opposed to God not being able to triumph over the church. The keys of the kingdom of heaven refer to the metaphor of the Kingdom of Heaven being a \"place to be entered\" as also used in , where the entrance to it can be shut.\n\nPeter's authority is further confirmed by: \"Whatsoever thou shalt bind on earth shall be bound in heaven: and whatsoever thou shalt loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven\". As discussed below, various Christian denominations have assigned different interpretations to the authority granted in this passage.\n\nAll three of the Synoptics end the account with Jesus telling the disciples not to reveal that he was the Messiah to anyone, a statement which in the 20th century gave rise to theory of the Messianic Secret in the Gospel of Mark.\n\nVarious Christian denominations interpret in different ways. Although most denominations agree that the statement applies to Peter, they diverge on their interpretations of what happens after Peter.\n\nIn the Roman Catholic Church, Jesus' words, \"upon this rock I will build my church\" are interpreted as the foundation of the doctrine of the papacy, whereby the Church of Christ is founded upon Peter and his successors, the Bishops of Rome. Jesus' next statement, \"and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it.\" are interpreted as the foundation of the doctrine of papal infallibility.\n\nSome Protestants believe that the verse states that Peter was the foundation stone of the Church, but do not accept that it applies to the continuous succession of popes, as the Bishops of Rome. The statement \"and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it\" is usually taken to mean that the Church will never become extinct. Some Protestant evangelical groups adhere to the interpretation that it is Peter's \"confession\" itself that is \"the rock on which will be built the Church of Jesus\", i.e. The church will be built on Jesus alone as the foundation stone of his church. This interpretation usually uses the argument of the difference between \"petros\" and \"petra\" in Greek (\"You are Peter [petros] and on this rock [petra] I will build my church.\")\n\nThe Eastern Orthodox and Oriental Orthodox churches also reject the succession of popes and see Jesus' words, \"whatsoever thou shalt bind on earth shall be bound in heaven\" as bestowing first upon Peter what was later bestowed upon all of the Apostles collectively. The Orthodox believe in the infallibility of the Church as a whole, but that any individual, regardless of their position can be subject to error.\n\nEcumenical meetings among different denominations have taken place regarding these interpretations, but no final agreement has emerged.\n\nThe Roman Catholic Church celebrates the Feast of the Chair of St. Peter on 22 February in the General Roman Calendar. In the General Roman Calendar of 1960, the feast is celebrated on 18 January. Some Anglican and Lutheran churches celebrate the Feast of the Confession of St. Peter on 18 January.\n\nThe Confession of Peter is the beginning of the \"Week of Prayer for Christian Unity\", is actually an octave rather than a week and was originally known as the Octave of Christian Unity. It is an international Christian ecumenical observance that began in 1908. It spans from 18 January to 25 January (the Feast of the Conversion of Saint Paul).\n\n"}
{"id": "16088201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16088201", "title": "Disaster Action", "text": "Disaster Action\n\nDisaster Action was founded as a charity in 1991 by survivors and bereaved people from UK and overseas disasters. In the late 1980s, there were a number of serious incidents in which many lives were lost, such as the sinking of the MV Jupiter (1961), Hillsborough, the Herald of Free Enterprise, Lockerbie, the Marchioness, Piper Alpha and UTA Flight 772. Maurice de Rohan from the Herald Families Association realised that the issues the Herald families were experiencing would almost certainly be encountered by others in similar disasters and therefore gathered together a group of people in circumstances that paralleled his resulting in the charity Disaster Action being set up. It won a Guardian charity of the year award in 2004 for excellence in its field.\n\nThe organisation evolved and developed through the years with one significant development being the introduction of legislation to provide for remedies against Corporate manslaughter, which culminated with a new law coming into force on 1 April 2008. The charity also generated income through charging fees for presentations by members on training courses for corporate bodies based on members' experience.\n\nThe Joseph Rowntree Charitable Trust funded much of the organisation's work on corporate responsibility as well as offering core funding for five years from 2003. The Esmee Fairbairn Foundation and then the Golden Bottle/Bulldog trusts also gave grants for core funding. In 2015 the decision was taken to no longer offer a proactive response to major emergencies or offer presentations. \n\n"}
{"id": "2727218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2727218", "title": "Drug recall", "text": "Drug recall\n\nA drug recall removes a prescription or over-the-counter drug from the market. Drug recalls in the United States are made by the FDA or the creators of the drug when certain criteria are met. When a drug recall is made, the drug is removed from the market and potential legal action can be taken depending on the severity of the drug recall.\n\nDrug recalls are classified in the US by the FDA in three different categories. Class I recalls are the most severe and indicate that exposure and/or consumption of the drug will lead to adverse health effects or death. Class II recalls refer to drugs that induce temporary and/or medically reversible health effects. Class III recalls occur when adverse health effects are not likely to occur when consuming the drug or being exposed to it.\n\nThere are also market withdrawals and medical device safety alerts'. Market withdrawals occur when a product has a minor violation that does not require FDA legal action. Medical device safety alerts occur when there are unreasonable safety risks associated with using a product.\n\nA more comprehensive list of drug recalls worldwide can be found here: List of withdrawn drugs.\n\nMrs. Winslow's Soothing Syrup introduced as a soothing agent for both humans and animals, but was primarily advertised to help soothe teething babies. Though not directly affiliated with the FDA, Mrs. Winslow's Soothing Syrup was denounced by the American Medical Association in 1911 via their article titled \"Baby Killers.\" The syrup was sold until as late as 1930 in the United Kingdom.\n\nIn 1971, Diethylstilbestrol (DES) was recalled from the market. It was intended to be used to prevent prenatal problems during pregnancy. Women who took DES were shown to have a greater chance of having breast cancer. It is estimated that 5 to 10 million persons were exposed to DES until its recall in 1971. Both mothers and second generation daughters are confirmed to have adverse side effects from DES.\nDaughters of DES Mothers are more than twice as likely to form breast cancer and are 2.4 times as likely to be infertile. \nSons of DES mothers have displayed side effects like genital abnormalities, non-cancerous Epididymal Cysts, and infertility.\nThe Third Generation of people exposed to DES are just now entering into an age where reproductive problems and abnormalities can be studied. No viable results currently exist.\n\nThe FDA will issue different levels of recall depending on the severity of the effects. From most to least severe, there is Class I, Class II, and Class III (defined above).There is also market withdrawal which occurs when a drug does not violate FDA regulation but has a known, minor default. The producer must either fix the default or take the drug off the market.\n\nDrugs and medical devices are typically recalled if the product is defective, contaminated, contains a foreign object, fails to meet specifications, mislabeled, or misbranded. Misbranding was the most common reason for pharmaceutical recalls in 2015, accounting for 42%.\n\nThis graph charts the rise in drug recalls by class in the United States from 2004 to 2014 with data from Regulatory Affairs Professionals Society\n\nThe recall process in the United States follows three approximate phases. Distinct difficulties arise depending on the type of drug being recalled.\n\nDrug recalls can be initiated by the producing firm or the FDA, and those launched by the FDA can be either mandatory or voluntary. This is applicable not just to drugs but all products covered under the FDA.\n\nA firm submitting a recall to the FDA must provide all relevant information about the specific drug, including but not limited to: product name, use, description, and at least two samples of product (including packaging, instructions, inserts, etc.).\n\nThe firm must explain the problem they found with the product, how they found this problem, and the reason the problem occurred. For example, if the firm finds a leaking pipe near a product assembly line and tests for batches of the drug produced on that line are positive for contamination, they would submit that as the reason to how they believe their products came to be affected. After submitting a field report, the potential risks will be assessed.\n\nIn processing the recall, a Health Hazard Assessment will be conducted by the FDA to determine the recall class (defined above). Level, notification, instructions, mechanics, impacts on economy, and individual consumer must all be considered in determining recall strategy. Level of recall refers to which part of the distribution chain to which the recall is extended (wholesale, retail, pharmacy, medical user, etc.). Notification is the way consumers are alerted to the recall. In cases of a severe health hazard, a press release must be promptly issued. The FDA recommends a written notification, so consumers will have lasting documentation. There are guidelines for notification depending on type; these types include: mail, phone, facsimile, e-mail, media. Instructions and mechanics are information provided to the consumer regarding appropriate action for the recall. The instructions include if the product is to be returned, and if so, where and how they should return the product. It is important to consider the recalled drug’s place in the market, should the recall lead to market shortages.\n\nThe FDA will conduct an Effectiveness Check to determine the success of the recall. The drug will either undergo controlled destruction or reconditioning (i.e. relabeling with the correct label). Status reports are conducted throughout the recall to determine effectiveness.\n\nThe root cause of the recall must be addressed and corrected to prevent future occurrences. After all corrective action is acknowledged and carried out, the FDA can terminate the recall.\n\nOTC, prescription, and compounded drugs (drugs tailored to a specific patient) each pose unique challenges to the recall process.\n\nOver the counter drugs are widely distributed and there is no direct link between company and consumer. Recalls are typically only advertised online and in the media, so consumers are subject to their own awareness. Lot numbers indicated on the packing allow only those affected to participate in recall.\n\nPrescription drug recalls are made simpler because they follow supply chain: the manufacturer notifies the pharmacy who notifies the patient. However, since there is not a lot/batch number on packaging, recalls must rely on date ranges (date the prescription was filled) whose inaccuracy may lead to higher costs.\n\nCompounded drugs are simple to recall because there is a direct link to patient. Despite the seeming simplicity, the offending component is typically identified across multiple drug classifications, expanding the recall.\n\nAlthough incomplete, this list highlights some changes in United States government policy that have had an effect on drug recalls.\n\nThe National Childhood Vaccine Injury Act of 1986 recognized the threat of injury and death that vaccines can pose. It allowed for financial compensation of the family should such threats come to light, and it increased vaccination safety precautions. If the federal compensation is not sufficient or not granted, this act allowed patients to take legal action for vaccine injuries. This is relevant to drug recalls because a vaccine producer is responsible for reparative damages if their vaccine causes injury and was not recalled.\n\nThe Food and Drug Administration Modernization Act of 1997 was passed in order to streamline the FDA to meet standards of efficiency expected by the 21st century. In regards to drugs, the act lowered the regulatory obligations of pharmaceutical companies, allowing them to rely on one clinical trial for approval. It is still the assumption, however, that two trials are necessary to determine safety and effectiveness.\n\nIn addition to lower regulatory hurdles, the act allowed for the advertisement of “off label” uses. The effects of this could be unnecessary overuse of the product by consumers and larger profits for the firm. Apropos to medical devices, private for-profit firms were allowed to review the products instead of the FDA.\n\nThe 21st Century Cures Act would allow for faster approval of certain drugs, which could result in additional recalls. It passed both houses of Congress and was signed into law by US President Barack Obama on December 13, 2016.\n\nIn 2015, 45 new drugs were passed by the FDA, which is more than double than the approval rate 10 years ago. The 21st Century Cures Act could make this number a trend rather than aberration by expediting approval through lower standards, much like the FDA Modernization Act of 1997. The rationale behind the act is that urgency trumps risk for “breakthrough” medical devices. The act would allow producers to submit data other than official clinical trials for consideration, such as case histories. It would also allow reviews to be done by third parties instead of the FDA. Debates stem from the fact that approval could be based on anecdotal rather than scientific evidence.\n\nThis act is debated due to the FDA’s seemingly close relations with medical device producers. The two industries collaborated to write proposals for lobbying for the legislation of this act. The FDA is supposed to be neutral in its actions, but representatives from Johnson & Johnson, St Jude Medical, and CVRx Inc. (large medical device suppliers) were all in attendance for the collaborative meetings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44586382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44586382", "title": "Electro-music", "text": "Electro-music\n\nThe electro-music music festival is a festival and conference devoted to experimental electronic music . Since 2005 it has been held in Huguenot, New York. The annual electro-music festival, known as the \"Woodstock of electronic music,\" bills itself as \"the world's premiere event for experimental electronic music\". The gathering features three days of electronic music concerts, seminars, workshops, demonstrations, jam sessions, video art, a laptop battle, and a swap-meet.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "563847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=563847", "title": "Electromigration", "text": "Electromigration\n\nElectromigration is the transport of material caused by the gradual movement of the ions in a conductor due to the momentum transfer between conducting electrons and diffusing metal atoms. The effect is important in applications where high direct current densities are used, such as in microelectronics and related structures. As the structure size in electronics such as integrated circuits (ICs) decreases, the practical significance of this effect increases.\n\nThe phenomenon of electromigration has been known for over 100 years, having been discovered by the French scientist Gerardin. The topic first became of practical interest during the late 1960s when packaged ICs first appeared. The earliest commercially available ICs failed in a mere three weeks of use from runaway electromigration, which led to a major industry effort to correct this problem. The first observation of electromigration in thin films was made by I. Blech. Research in this field was pioneered by a number of investigators throughout the fledgling semiconductor industry. One of the most important engineering studies was performed by Jim Black of Motorola, after whom Black's equation is named. At the time, the metal interconnects in ICs were still about 10 micrometres wide. Currently interconnects are only hundreds to tens of nanometers in width, making research in electromigration increasingly important.\n\nElectromigration decreases the reliability of chips (integrated circuits (ICs)). It can cause the eventual loss of connections or failure of a circuit. Since reliability is critically important for space travel, military purposes, anti-lock braking systems, medical equipment like Automated External Defibrillators and is even important for personal computers or home entertainment systems, the reliability of chips (ICs) is a major focus of research efforts.\n\nDue to difficulty of testing under real conditions, Black's equation is used to predict the life span of integrated circuits.\nTo use Black's equation, the component is put through high temperature operating life (HTOL) testing. The component's expected life span under real conditions is extrapolated from data gathered during the testing.\n\nAlthough electromigration damage ultimately results in failure of the affected IC, the first symptoms are intermittent glitches, and are quite challenging to diagnose. As some interconnects fail before others, the circuit exhibits seemingly random errors, which may be indistinguishable from other failure mechanisms (such as electrostatic discharge damage). In a laboratory setting, electromigration failure is readily imaged with an electron microscope, as interconnect erosion leaves telltale visual markers on the metal layers of the IC.\n\nWith increasing miniaturization, the probability of failure due to electromigration increases in VLSI and ULSI circuits because both the power density and the current density increase. Specifically, line widths will continue to decrease over time, as will wire cross-sectional areas. Currents are also reduced due to lower supply voltages and shrinking gate capacitances. However, as current reduction is constrained by increasing frequencies, the more marked decrease in cross-sectional areas (compared to current reduction) will give rise to increased current densities in ICs going forward.\n\nIn advanced semiconductor manufacturing processes, copper has replaced aluminium as the interconnect material of choice. Despite its greater fragility in the fabrication process, copper is preferred for its superior conductivity. It is also intrinsically less susceptible to electromigration. However, electromigration (EM) continues to be an ever-present challenge to device fabrication, and therefore the EM research for copper interconnects is ongoing (though a relatively new field).\n\nIn modern consumer electronic devices, ICs rarely fail due to electromigration effects. This is because proper semiconductor design practices incorporate the effects of electromigration into the IC's layout. Nearly all IC design houses use automated EDA tools to check and correct electromigration problems at the transistor layout-level. When operated within the manufacturer's specified temperature and voltage range, a properly designed IC device is more likely to fail from other (environmental) causes, such as cumulative damage from gamma-ray bombardment.\n\nNevertheless, there have been documented cases of product failures due to electromigration. In the late 1980s, one line of Western Digital's desktop drives suffered widespread, predictable failure 12–18 months after field usage. Using forensic analysis of the returned bad units, engineers identified improper design-rules in a third-party supplier's IC controller. By replacing the bad component with that of a different supplier, WD was able to correct the flaw, but not before significant damage to the company's reputation.\n\nElectromigration due to poor fabrication processes was a significant cause of IC failures on Commodore's home computers during the 1980s. During 1983, the Commodore 64 computer for a time had a nearly 50% customer return rate.\n\nElectromigration can be a cause of degradation in some power semiconductor devices such as low voltage power MOSFETs, in which the lateral current through the source contact metallisation (often aluminium) can reach the critical current densities during overload conditions. The degradation of the aluminium layer causes an increase in on-state resistance, and can eventually lead to complete failure.\n\nThe material properties of the metal interconnects have a strong influence on the life span. The characteristics are predominantly the composition of the metal alloy and the dimensions of the conductor. The shape of the conductor, the crystallographic orientation of the grains in the metal, procedures for the layer deposition, heat treatment or annealing, characteristics of the passivation and the interface to other materials also affect the durability of the interconnects. There are also grave differences with time dependent current: direct current or different alternating current waveforms cause different effects.\n\nTwo forces affect ionized atoms in a conductor: 1) The direct electrostatic force \"F\", as a result of the electric field, which has the same direction as the electric field, and 2) The force from the exchange of momentum with other charge carriers \"F\", toward the flow of charge carriers, is in the opposite direction of the electric field. In metallic conductors \"F\" is caused by a so-called \"electron wind\" or \"Ion wind\".\n\nThe resulting force \"F\" on an activated ion in the electrical field is\n\nformula_1\n\nElectromigration occurs when some of the momentum of a moving electron is transferred to a nearby activated ion. This causes the ion to move from its original position. Over time this force knocks a significant number of atoms far from their original positions. A break or gap can develop in the conducting material, preventing the flow of electricity. In narrow interconnect conductors, such as those linking transistors and other components in integrated circuits, this is known as a void or internal failure open circuit. Electromigration can also cause the atoms of a conductor to pile up and drift toward other nearby conductors, creating an unintended electrical connection known as a hillock failure or whisker failure (short circuit). Both of these situations can lead to a malfunction of the circuit.\n\nIn a homogeneous crystalline structure, because of the uniform lattice structure of the metal ions, there is hardly any momentum transfer between the conduction electrons and the metal ions. However, this symmetry does not exist at the grain boundaries and material interfaces, and so here momentum is transferred much more vigorously. Since the metal ions in these regions are bonded more weakly than in a regular crystal lattice, once the electron wind has reached a certain strength, atoms become separated from the grain boundaries and are transported in the direction of the current. This direction is also influenced by the grain boundary itself, because atoms tend to move along grain boundaries.\n\nDiffusion processes caused by electromigration can be divided into grain boundary diffusion, bulk diffusion and surface diffusion. In general, grain boundary diffusion is the major electromigration process in aluminum wires, whereas surface diffusion is dominant in copper interconnects.\n\nIn an ideal conductor, where atoms are arranged in a perfect lattice structure, the electrons moving through it would experience no collisions and electromigration would not occur. In real conductors, defects in the lattice structure and the random thermal vibration of the atoms about their positions causes electrons to collide with the atoms and scatter, which is the source of electrical resistance (at least in metals; see electrical conduction). Normally, the amount of momentum imparted by the relatively low-mass electrons is not enough to permanently displace the atoms. However, in high-power situations (such as with the increasing current draw and decreasing wire sizes in modern VLSI microprocessors), if many electrons bombard the atoms with enough force to become significant, this will accelerate the process of electromigration by causing the atoms of the conductor to vibrate further from their ideal lattice positions, increasing the amount of electron scattering. High current density increases the number of electrons scattering against the atoms of the conductor, and hence the speed at which those atoms are displaced.\n\nIn integrated circuits, electromigration does not occur in semiconductors directly, but in the metal interconnects deposited onto them (see semiconductor device fabrication).\n\nElectromigration is exacerbated by high current densities and the Joule heating of the conductor (see electrical resistance), and can lead to eventual failure of electrical components. Localized increase of current density is known as current crowding.\n\nA governing equation which describes the atom concentration evolution throughout some interconnect segment, is the conventional mass balance (continuity) equation\n\nformula_2\n\nwhere formula_3 is the atom concentration at the point with a coordinates formula_4 at the moment of time formula_5, and formula_6 is the total atomic flux at this location. The total atomic flux formula_6 is a combination of the fluxes caused by the different atom migration forces. The major forces are induced by the electric current, and by the gradients of temperature, mechanical stress and concentration. formula_8.\n\nTo define the fluxes mentioned above:\n\n• formula_9. Here formula_10 is the electron charge, formula_11 is the effective charge of the migrating atom, formula_12 the resistivity of the conductor where atom migration takes place, formula_13 is the local current density, formula_14 is Boltzmann’s constant, formula_15 is the absolute temperature. formula_16 is the time and position dependent atom diffusivity.\n\n• formula_17. We use formula_18 the heat of thermal diffusion.\n\n• formula_19 here formula_20 is the atomic volume and formula_21 is initial atomic concentration, formula_22 is the hydrostatic stress and formula_23 are the components of principal stress.\n\n• formula_24.\n\nAssuming a vacancy mechanism for atom diffusion we can express formula_25 as a function of the hydrostatic stress formula_26 where formula_27 is the effective activation energy of the thermal diffusion of metal atoms. The vacancy concentration represents availability of empty lattice sites, which might be occupied by a migrating atom.\n\nAt the end of the 1960s J. R. Black developed an empirical model to estimate the MTTF (mean time to failure) of a wire, taking electromigration into consideration. Since then, the formula has gained popularity in the semiconductor industry:\n\nHere formula_29 is a constant based on the cross-sectional area of the interconnect, formula_30 is the current density, formula_31 is the activation energy (e.g. 0.7 eV for grain boundary diffusion in aluminum), formula_32 is the Boltzmann's constant, formula_33 is the temperature in kelvins, and formula_34 a scaling factor (usually set to 2 according to Black). The temperature of the conductor appears in the exponent, i.e. it strongly affects the MTTF of the interconnect. For an interconnect to remain reliable as the temperature rises, the maximum tolerable current density of the conductor must necessarily decrease. However, as interconnect technology advances at the nanometer scale, the validity of Black's equation becomes increasingly questionable.\n\nHistorically, aluminium has been used as conductor in integrated circuits, due to its good adherence to substrate, good conductivity, and ability to form ohmic contacts with silicon. However, pure aluminium is susceptible to electromigration. Research shows that adding 2-4% of copper to aluminium increases resistance to electromigration about 50 times. The effect is attributed to the grain boundary segregation of copper, which greatly inhibits the diffusion of aluminium atoms across grain boundaries.\n\nPure copper wires can withstand approximately five times more current density than aluminum wires while maintaining similar reliability requirements. This is mainly due to the higher electromigration activation energy levels of copper, caused by its superior electrical and thermal conductivity as well as its higher melting point. Further improvements can be achieved by alloying copper with about 1% palladium which inhibits diffusion of copper atoms along grain boundaries in the same way as the addition of copper to aluminium interconnect.\n\nA wider wire results in smaller current density and, hence, less likelihood of electromigration. Also, the metal grain size has influence; the smaller grains, the more grain boundaries and the higher likelihood of electromigration effects. However, if you reduce wire width to below the average grain size of the wire material, grain boundaries become \"crosswise\", more or less perpendicular to the length of the wire. The resulting structure resembles the joints in a stalk of bamboo. With such a structure, the resistance to electromigration increases, despite an increase in current density. This apparent contradiction is caused by the perpendicular position of the grain boundaries; the boundary diffusion factor is excluded, and material transport is correspondingly reduced.\n\nHowever, the maximum wire width possible for a bamboo structure is usually too narrow for signal lines of large-magnitude currents in analog circuits or for power supply lines. In these circumstances, slotted wires are often used, whereby rectangular holes are carved in the wires. Here, the widths of the individual metal structures in between the slots lie within the area of a bamboo structure, while the resulting total width of all the metal structures meets power requirements.\n\nThere is a lower limit for the length of the interconnect that will allow higher current carrying capability. It is known as “Blech length”. Any wire that has a length below this limit will have a stretched limit for Electromigration. Here, a mechanical stress buildup causes an atom back flow process which reduces or even compensates the effective material flow towards the anode. The Blech length must be considered when designing test structures for electromigration.\n\nParticular attention must be paid to vias and contact holes.The current carrying capacity of a via is much less than a metallic wire of same length. Hence multiple vias are often used, whereby the geometry of the via array is very significant: multiple vias must be organized such that the resulting current is distributed as evenly as possible through all the vias.\n\nAttention must also be paid to bends in interconnects. In particular, 90-degree corner bends must be avoided, since the current density in such bends is significantly higher than that in oblique angles (e.g., 135 degrees).\n\nThe typical current density at which electromigration occurs in Cu or Al interconnects is 10 to 10 A/cm. For solder joints (SnPb or SnAgCu lead-free) used in IC chips, however, electromigration occurs at much lower current densities, e.g. 10 A/cm.\nIt causes a net atom transport along the direction of electron flow. The atoms pile up at the anode, voids are generated at the cathode and back stress is induced during electromigration. The typical failure of a solder joint due to electromigration will occur at the cathode side. Due to the current crowding effect, voids form first at the corner of the solder joint. Then the voids extend and cause a failed circuit. Electromigration also influences formation of intermetallic compounds.\n\nThe complete mathematical model describing electromigration consists of several partial differential equations (PDEs) which need to be solved for three-dimensional geometrical domains representing segments of an interconnect structure. Such a mathematical model forms the basis for simulation of electromigration in modern TCAD tools.\nUsage of TCAD tools for detailed investigations of electromigration induced interconnect degradation is gaining importance. Results of TCAD study in combination with reliability tests lead to modification of design rules improving the interconnect resistance to electromigration.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30244009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30244009", "title": "European Assembly for Climate Justice", "text": "European Assembly for Climate Justice\n\nThe European Assembly for Climate Justice took place in Brussels from 26 to 29 November 2010.\n\nOver 250 people from ten European countries assembled for four days of debates, discussion, action and networking.\n\nThe Assembly was organised following a call out from Via Campesina for 1000 Cancuns where people across the world would organise popular assemblies in the run up to the COP16.\n\nEvents began on Friday 26th when 120 cyclists gathered for a critical mass ride around central Brussels.\n\nOn Saturday and Sunday morning participants gathered at Erasmus Hogeschool for workshops, a popular assembly and a conference.\n\nOn Sunday afternoon participants joined the climate justice bloc in the \"Sing for the Climate\" event which was organised by the Belgian Climate Coalition.\n\n"}
{"id": "185700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=185700", "title": "Eurovision Song Contest 1988", "text": "Eurovision Song Contest 1988\n\nThe Eurovision Song Contest 1988 was the 33rd edition of the annual Eurovision Song Contest. The contest took place on 30 April 1988 in Dublin, Ireland, following the country's win at the previous 1987 edition. The presenters were Pat Kenny and Michelle Rocca. The host broadcaster was Radio Telefís Éireann (RTÉ) which revamped the show's production style compared to its earlier editions, in order to appeal to a younger audience.\n\nThe winner was Switzerland with the song \"Ne partez pas sans moi\", performed by Canadian singer Céline Dion and composed by Atilla Şereftuğ with lyrics in French by Nella Martinetti. Switzerland beat the United Kingdom by just a point in the last vote to win the title. Twenty-one countries took part, after an initial plan of twenty-two, as Cyprus withdrew its already registered entry for breaching the contest's rules by being published few years earlier, in an attempt to represent the country at a prior edition of the contest. The Cypriot song had been drawn to be performed 2nd in the running order.\n\nDublin is the capital and largest city of Ireland. Dublin is in the province of Leinster on Ireland's east coast, at the mouth of the River Liffey. Founded as a Viking settlement, the Kingdom of Dublin became Ireland's principal city following the Norman invasion. The city expanded rapidly from the 17th century and was briefly the second largest city in the British Empire before the Acts of Union in 1800. Following independence in 1922, Dublin became the capital of the Republic of Ireland.\n\nThe contest took place at the Simmonscourt Pavilion of the Royal Dublin Society, which was normally used for agricultural and horse shows. The same venue hosted the 1981 contest.\n\nHost broadcaster RTÉ employed Declan Lowney, who was notable for being a director of music videos and youth programming, as director for this edition, in order to revamp the contest to attract and sustain a younger audience. The traditional scoreboard was replaced with two giant Vidiwalls located on either side of the stage, which also projected live images of the performers from the green room where the competitors set during the votes announcements, and a new computer-generated scoreboard was used.\n\nThe stage itself, conceived by Paula Farrell under chief production designer Michael Grogan, was also the largest and most elaborate ever constructed for the Eurovision Song Contest. To compensate for the fact that the vast stage took up most of the room in what is really an average size exhibition hall, the director deliberately darkened the hall where the audience was located and refused to use wide angled shots of the audience, in order to create the illusion of the venue being bigger than it actually was.\n\nThe Postcards featured the participants doing things in Ireland from culture, to tradition, to sports or sightseeing.\n\nLowney was also the director of the show's interval act, introduced after the competing songs and before the votes announcement. The interval act was a video of the popular Irish rock group Hothouse Flowers, which was filmed in eleven countries around Europe and was the most expensive music video ever produced in Ireland at the time.\n\nEach country had a jury who awarded 12, 10, 8, 7, 6, 5, 4, 3, 2 and 1 point(s) for its top ten songs.\n\nThis edition features one of the closest and fickle-ending votes in the history of the contest. With three countries left to vote, the UK was well in the lead with 133 points against Switzerland's 118. With the third last country, France, only awarding Switzerland one point, the UK looked certain of victory, as even if Switzerland scooped the two final 12s, the UK would only need to gather nine points from three juries combined to be unbeatable. However, France didn't award the UK any points, and the following country, Portugal, gave the UK a meagre three points while giving the maximum 12 to Switzerland, making the contest blown open between the two countries until the end of the voting.\n\nWith the conclusion of voting from the penultimate jury, the UK was holding a five-point lead over Switzerland. As the final jury, that of Yugoslavia, began to award its points in the customary ascending order, a lot of excitement-sighs were heard from the audience to see how the two rivals for victory would fare. Switzerland was the first to be named with six points, edging it into a one-point lead over the UK. After earlier strong votes from most countries to the UK, it seemed highly likely that the UK would be given one of the higher remaining set of points. However, eventually the UK only managed to garner a meagre three points between the last three juries, as after Yugoslavia announced its seven, eight, ten and twelve points, it transpired that it had awarded the UK no points at all, and Switzerland was left with its one-point lead to savour a dramatic triumph.\n\nEach performance had a conductor who was maestro to the orchestra, expect for Iceland and Italy.\n\nTwenty-one countries took part, after an initial plan of twenty-two, as Cyprus withdrew from the contest after it had already submitted an entry. Cypriot broadcaster CyBC had selected the song 'Thimame' sung by Yiannis Dimitrou, and at a late stage saw that the song was ineligible to represent them as it had been entered into the Cypriot selection for the 1984 Contest, where it had finished in 3rd place. This was classed as a breach of the Cypriot rules of selecting their entry at this time as well as an infringement of the Eurovision Song Contest rules. It was a very late decision as the song was already drawn to perform second in the contest, advertised in the Radio Times information about the preview programme of the contest, and appears as song number two in accordance to its initial performance draw, on the record release “Melodi Grand Prix 1988” – the compilation disc of the contest’s entries.\n\nThis was the second victory for Switzerland at the Eurovision Song Contest after winning its first edition in 1956, and the last time a song in French won the contest, the language having dominated the event in earlier years.\n\nThe contest helped launch an international career for two artists, the winner for Switzerland Céline Dion and Luxembourg’s representative Lara Fabian. French-Canadian Céline Dion was only famous in the French-speaking world at the time of the contest, shortly afterwards started recording songs in English. Belgian-Canadian Lara Fabian started a successful career after the contest with becoming established in various countries worldwide, with a mainly French-sung repertoire. The UK entry was written and composed by Julie Forsyth, the daughter of the entertainer Bruce Forsyth who was present. When interviewed afterwards he was particularly annoyed at the Dutch jury not having given a vote to the UK, as they had done some work there.\n\nThe contest saw the return of seven artists who had participated in its previous editions: Denmark's Kirsten & Søren represented the country in 1984 and 1985, Finland's Boulevard represented the country in 1987 as Vicky Rosti's backing group, Israel's Re'uven Gvirtz and Yehuda Tamir, winners of the contest in 1979 as part of Milk and Honey returned to Eurovision as backing singers for Yardena Arazi, who represented the country in 1976 as part of the group Chocolat, Menta, Mastik. Arazi had hosted the contest in 1979, Portugal's Dora represented the country in 1986, Sweden's Tommy Körberg represented the country in 1969, and Turkey's MFÖ represented the country in 1985.\n\nBelow is a summary of all 12 points in the final:\n\n\nThe size of the national juries changed this year from 11 to 16 members, and this lasted until 1997.\n"}
{"id": "8997642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8997642", "title": "Evropa (magazine)", "text": "Evropa (magazine)\n\nEvropa was a weekly Serbian magazine published from 2004 until 2008. In written form, it was occasionally also referred to as Evropa\n\nAt first, conceptually a cross between a news and general interest magazine, \"Evropa\"'s first issue appeared on April 15, 2004. Initially edited and owned by Željko Cvijanović, the magazine devoted equal attention to political, social and economic issues, as well as to culture and entertainment topics. Written in lighter tone, published under \"Nacionalni nedeljnik\" (National weekly) mantra, it tried to avoid a single political and ideological position.\n\nIts publisher's stated ambition was to promote European values as well as European perspective for Serbia. To that end, magazine has developed a network of correspondents in the following European capitals: Dublin, Madrid, Moscow, London, Rome, Paris as well as in the countries of former Yugoslavia.\n\nIn addition to Serbia, \"Evropa\" was available on the news stands in Montenegro, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Croatia, Slovenia, and Macedonia. During summer months the magazine was distributed throughout seaside resorts in Turkey, Bulgaria, and Greece.\n\nIn mid-2006, Cvijanović sold \"Evropa\" to Philip Zepter and the editing duties were taken over by Rade Stanić who in many ways continued with concept employed by Cvijanović.\n\nIn late August 2007, Dušan Veličković became \"Evropa\"s editor-in-chief. The first issue he put together was #178 on September 6, 2007. In addition to new editor, the magazine saw major conceptual changes with Veličković's arrival. \"Nacionalni nedeljnik\" mantra was immediately scrapped, and a whole new staff (editors and columnists) came along to replace the old guard. They included: Igor Marojević, Nastasija Radović, Bruce Sterling, Richard Byrne, Vukša Veličković, Miša Brkić, Zanko Tomić, Bojana Mijović, and Jens-Martin Eriksen. Since December 6, 2007 (issue #191), \"Evropa\"'s new credo/marketing slogan is \"Prvi evropski news magazin u Srbiji\" (First European newsmagazine in Serbia). Since the same issue, the magazine also got a visual makevoer with dark blue replacing red as the dominant colour.\n\nOn February 14, 2008, the day its issue #201 was due to appear on news stands, deputy editor-in-chief Nastasija Radović announced the publishing of \"Evropa\" has been discontinued, which means that the issue #200 from February 7 was its last. According to her, the decision was communicated to the staff by the publishing company representatives who informed them it was due to financial reasons. Editor-in-chief Dušan Veličković added that the staff was still hoping to find a way for the magazine to keep publishing, however that has not happened.\n"}
{"id": "11025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11025", "title": "February 20", "text": "February 20\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42688887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42688887", "title": "Golovnin Incident", "text": "Golovnin Incident\n\nThe Golovnin Incident involved the capture of Russian explorer and naval captain, Vasily Golovnin in 1811, by soldiers of the Japanese shogunate in accordance of Japan's policy of isolationism (Sakoku). Golovnin was interned in Japan for two years before being released in 1813. The incident was an important flashpoint in Russo-Japanese relations over the control of the Kuril islands. Golovnin's book \"Memoirs of a Captivity in Japan during the Years 1811, 1812 and 1813 with observations on the country and the people\", recounted his captivity, was a popular work in Europe and was translated into several languages.\n\nIn April 1811, the Russian minister of the Marine directed the sloop \"Diana\" to explore the Southern Kuril and Shantar Islands as well as the Tartary Coast. Golovnin had originally been dispatched from Kronstadt to the North-West Pacific in 1807 to chart the eastern coast of the Russian Empire.\nIn the 18th century Russian fur trappers had moved through Siberia towards the North-West Pacific and some had even settled in the Kurils. Prior attempts to map the islands had proved difficult due to the mists that rose from the islands as well as strong winds. The expedition would sail in the summer when conditions would be optimal and then Golovnin would continue to the Shantar Islands. The \"Diana\" left Petropavlovsk-Kamchatsky on 25 April through the ice-flows and set to sea from Avacha Bay on 4 May. Golovnin was conscientious of respecting relations between Russia and Japan as his voyage followed several diplomatic incidents with Japan such as the castaway incident of Daikokuya Kōdayū in 1784, the Adam Laxman incident of 1791 and Nikolai Rezanov's failed trade mission in 1805. Rezanov who then visited the United States was brought back to Siberia by Lieutenant Chwostoff in vessels belonging to the Russian-American Company but died when he reached Siberia in 1807. Chwostoff, however, proceeded to raid Japanese villages in Sakhalin and the Kurils without government authority.\nThe \"Diana\" sailed to the island of Eetooroop and made contact with a group of Ainu (or Kuriles) who had been sent by the Japanese to investigate the Europeans. Golovnin proceeded to meet the Japanese military commander of the island, declaring his intention to collect wood and water and then be on his way. The commander stated that they couldn't trust the Russians due to the actions of Chwostoff, he agreed to send a letter to other commanders granting them access to supplies at the town of 'Oorbeetsch'. The Russians set sail, but were then intercepted by a baidara with the Kuriles on board, as well as a newcomer; Alexei Maximovitsch. Alexei joined the Russians as an interpreter, though his proficiency in Russian was low. Many of these Kuriles came from Russian-controlled islands and had been punished for Chwostoff's attack on Japanese settlements, thus feared and resented the Japanese. Moreover, the Japanese had brutally crushed an Ainu rebellion in 1789.\n\nEuropean explorers had not yet discovered Nemuro Strait between Hokkaido (Matsmai) and Kunashir, prompting Golovnin to explore them on 4 July. As the \"Diana\" approached the harbour at Kunashir, it was fired upon by the Japanese castle. After several attempts, the \"Diana\" made contact with Japanese officers on the island. They offered the necessary supplies as well as a meeting with the island's Bugyō or governor. So as to clear the Russian government of responsibility from the Chwostoff raids, Golovnin, two officers, four sailors and the Kurile Alexei landed. There they were met by the governor of Kunashir in his castle. Negotiations seemed amicable, but the Japanese had lured Golovnin onto the island and arrested him and the other crew members. \n\nThe crew was tightly bound with ropes whilst the \"Diana\", now under control of Petr Rikord, shot at the castle but was then forced to set sail to avoid capture. The captives were sailed across the straits to Hokkaido and encountered many villagers who were curious to see the Russians, due to the almost complete absence of foreigners in Japan. A Japanese drawing of their captivity shows the Russians' tall stature compared to the Japanese, which is also confirmed by Golovnin. The crew was led to a prison in Hakodate, the capital of Hokkaido.\n\nThe crew were kept in separate cells in a well guarded wooden prison. During the imprisonment, the Japanese began interrogating the officers with many precise questions, revealing the lack of knowledge that both cultures had for the other. On 25 August, the commander brought Golovnin his personal wares from his cabin on the Diana, much to his surprise, but the \"Diana\" had not been captured but had simply sent these items ashore. He was later brought before the governor of Hokkaido and made to discuss the events that took place by Resanov and Chwostoff. The governor handed him a letter from the remaining officers of the \"Diana\" who explained why they were not able to save them in the Kurils and that they would work towards their release. Golovnin was also provided with another letter written in 1806 by Chwostoff, stating that he had annexed the island of Sakhalin in the name of the Tsar. The Japanese had also annexed Sakhalin in 1807 in fear of growing Russian interference. The letter convinced many of the Japanese that Golovnin was a Russian spy. The Japanese continued pressing questions to Golovnin and he and the crew were moved to a new prison in Matsumae.\n\nAfter in depth interrogations for weeks, the governor of Hokkaido contacted the central government in Edo to ask whether the Russians could be released. In response, the Japanese government sent a scholar called Teske (a Dutch speaker) to try to learn Russian, to question the Russians and finally draw their portraits. The government also sent renowned explorer Mamiya Rinzō who had been wounded in the skirmish with Chwostoff on Etrop to discover more about Russia's presence in the North-West Pacific.\n\nGolovnin and his crew began plotting to escape (despite a great improvement of their treatment by the Japanese). However, one of the officers of German origin, Moor, had resolved to stay and pursue a life in Japan and had made significant progress in learning Japanese. In March 1812, the Governor received a letter stating new orders from Edo to burn any Russian ships and imprison their crews. Golovnin and the crew (without Moor) decide to make their escape into the mountains. The crew went through the mountains to the shore to find a boat to commandeer, but were arrested after eight days by soldiers and brought back into imprisonment. The new governor Oga-Sawara-Isseno-Kami, presented another letter from Chwostoff stating that his attack had been motivated by Japan's refusal to open trade with Russia. They were forgiven for their escape attempt and moved back to more comfortable lodging.\n\nAfter Golovnin's capture, Rikord returned to Kamchatka to gain permission to attempt to rescue which was granted by the governor of Kamchatka as well having a document condemning Chwostoff's raid given to him. He then attempted contact with the Japanese on Kunashir, and was met with cannon fire and the message that the captured Russians were all dead. In retaliation for the capture of Golovnin, commander Petr Rikord of the \"Diana\" detained the Japanese ship \"Kansai Maru\" and took captive the wealthy merchant Takadaya Kahei as well as symbolically retaining four other Japanese and a Kurile whilst releasing the rest of the crew on Kunashir. This action brought the two countries on the brink of war. In March, 1813 the new governor arrived prohibiting the firing on of Russian ships. To assure the Russians of their continuing survival, Golovnin and Moor wrote to Rikord informing them that they were still alive. However, two of the Japanese and one of the Ainu had died in captivity in Kamchatka (seemingly of scurvy). Moor, scared of retaliation by the Russians when he was released, endeavoured to upset the exchange of prisoners by warning that the Russians would attack the Japanese. Negotiations were made between Rikord, the governor of Hokkaido and the Japanese Government in Edo, in which the Japanese were convinced that Chwostoff's action had not been condoned by the Russian government and that the crew of the \"Diana\" had gone to the Kurils without mal-intent towards the Japanese. Kakadaya Kahei was released on 29 July as a show of good intention by Rikord. An agreement was finally reached to negotiate with Rikord and offer safe passage to the \"Diana\" and Golovnin was released from prison in August 1813 with copies of all their negotiations with the Japanese as well as those of Resanov and Laxman to present to the Russian government. The \"Diana\" arrived in late September, and after deliberations with the governor, Golovnin and his crew were officially released on 6 October.\n\nGolovnin's parting with the Japanese was amiable and both sides exchanged gifts whilst Rikord hosted a party on board the \"Diana\" for the Japanese. The crew returned to Petropavlovsk, but in despair (and possibly madness), Moor committed suicide. The crew returned to St. Petersburg in 1814 and were rewarded for their service. The Golovnin incident did not establish a renaissance in diplomacy between Europe and Japan, with the Japanese becoming increasingly fearful of the growing European presence in East Asia. In 1825, the Japanese government enacted the Edict to Repel Foreign Vessels (異国船打払令 Ikokusen Uchiharairei), requiring the burning of all European ships and the execution of their crews if they were to land outside of Nagasaki.\n"}
{"id": "31033", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31033", "title": "Great Molasses Flood", "text": "Great Molasses Flood\n\nThe Great Molasses Flood, also known as the Boston Molasses Disaster or the Great Boston Molasses Flood, occurred on January 15, 1919 in the North End neighborhood of Boston, Massachusetts. A large molasses storage tank burst and a wave of molasses rushed through the streets at an estimated , killing 21 and injuring 150. The event entered local folklore and for decades afterwards residents claimed that on hot summer days the area still smelled of molasses.\n\nThe disaster occurred at the Purity Distilling Company facility on January 15, 1919. The temperature had risen above , climbing rapidly from the frigid temperatures of the preceding days.\n\nMolasses can be fermented to produce rum and ethanol, the active ingredient in other alcoholic beverages and a key component in the manufacturing of munitions. The stored molasses was awaiting transfer to the Purity plant situated between Willow Street and what is now named Evereteze Way, in Cambridge.\n\nAt about 12:30 in the afternoon near Keany Square, at 529 Commercial Street, a molasses tank tall, in diameter, and containing as much as , collapsed. Witnesses variously reported that as it collapsed they felt the ground shake and heard a roar, a long rumble similar to the passing of an elevated train (coincidentally, with a line of that type close by), a tremendous crashing, a deep growling, or \"a thunderclap-like \"bang!\"\" [emphasis added], and as the rivets shot out of the tank, a machine gun-like sound.\n\nThe collapse unleashed a wave of molasses high at its peak, moving at . The molasses wave was of sufficient force to damage the girders of the adjacent Boston Elevated Railway's Atlantic Avenue structure and tip a railroad car momentarily off the tracks. Author Stephen Puleo describes how nearby buildings were swept off their foundations and crushed. Several blocks were flooded to a depth of . Puleo quotes a \"Boston Post\" report:\n\n\"The Boston Globe\" reported that people \"were picked up by a rush of air and hurled many feet.\" Others had debris hurled at them from the rush of sweet-smelling air. A truck was picked up and hurled into Boston Harbor. About 150 people were injured; 21 people and several horses were killed. Some were crushed and drowned by the molasses. The wounded included people, horses, and dogs; coughing fits became one of the most common ailments after the initial blast. In a 1983 article for \"Smithsonian\", Edwards Park wrote of one child's experience:\n\nFirst to the scene were 116 cadets under the direction of Lieutenant Commander H. J. Copeland from USS \"Nantucket\", a training ship of the Massachusetts Nautical School (which is now the Massachusetts Maritime Academy), that was docked nearby at the playground pier. They ran several blocks toward the accident. They worked to keep the curious from getting in the way of the rescuers, while others entered into the knee-deep, sticky mess to pull out the survivors. Soon, the Boston Police, Red Cross, Army, and other Navy personnel arrived. Some nurses from the Red Cross dove into the molasses, while others tended to the injured, keeping them warm and keeping the exhausted workers fed. Many of these people worked through the night. The injured were so numerous that doctors and surgeons set up a makeshift hospital in a nearby building. Rescuers found it difficult to make their way through the syrup to help the victims. Four days elapsed before they stopped searching for victims; many of the dead were so glazed over in molasses, they were hard to recognize.\n\nLocal residents brought a class-action lawsuit, one of the first held in Massachusetts, against the United States Industrial Alcohol Company (USIA), which had bought Purity Distilling in 1917. In spite of the company's attempts to claim that the tank had been blown up by anarchists (because some of the alcohol produced was to be used in making munitions), a court-appointed auditor found USIA responsible after three years of hearings. United States Industrial Alcohol Company ultimately paid out $600,000 in out-of-court settlements ($6.5 million in 2017, adjusted for inflation). Relatives of those killed reportedly received around $7,000 per victim.\n\nCleanup crews used salt water from a fireboat to wash the molasses away, and used sand to try to absorb it. The harbor was brown with molasses until summer. The cleanup in the immediate area took \"weeks\", with more than 300 people contributing to the effort. The cleanup in the rest of Greater Boston and its suburbs would take an indefinably longer time. Rescue workers, cleanup crews, and sight-seers had tracked molasses through the streets and spread it to subway platforms, to the seats inside trains and streetcars, to pay telephone handsets, into homes, and to countless other places. \"Everything a Bostonian touched was sticky.\"\n\nSources:\n\nSeveral factors that occurred on that day and the previous days might have contributed to the disaster. The tank was constructed poorly and tested insufficiently. Due to fermentation occurring within the tank, carbon dioxide production might have raised the internal pressure. The rise in local temperatures that occurred over the previous day also would have assisted in building this pressure. Records show that the air temperature rose from over that period. The failure occurred from a manhole cover near the base of the tank, and a fatigue crack there possibly grew to the point of criticality. The hoop stress is greatest near the base of a filled cylindrical tank.\n\nThe tank had been filled to capacity only eight times since it was built a few years previously, putting the walls under an intermittent, cyclical load. Several authors say that the Purity Distilling Company was (or may have been) trying to outrace prohibition in the United States; the Eighteenth Amendment to the Constitution of the United States was ratified the next day (January 16, 1919), and took effect one year later.\n\nAn inquiry after the disaster revealed that Arthur Jell, who oversaw the construction, neglected basic safety tests, such as filling the tank with water to check for leaks. When filled with molasses, the tank leaked so badly that it was painted brown to hide the leaks. Local residents collected leaked molasses for their homes.\n\nAn investigation first published in 2014, applying modern engineering analysis, found that the steel was not only half as thick as it should have been for a tank of its size, even with the lax standards of the day, but it also lacked manganese and was made more brittle as a result.\n\nIn 2016, a team of scientists and students at Harvard University conducted extensive studies of the historic disaster, gathering data from many sources, including 1919 newspaper articles, old maps, and weather reports. The student researchers also studied the behavior of cold corn syrup flooding a scale model of the affected neighborhood. The researchers concluded that the reports of the high speed of the flood were credible.\n\nTwo days before the disaster, warmer molasses had been added to the tank, reducing the viscosity of the fluid. When the tank collapsed the fluid cooled quickly as it spread, until it reached Boston's winter evening temperatures and the viscosity increased dramatically. The Harvard study concluded that the molasses cooled and thickened quickly as it rushed through the streets, hampering efforts to free victims before they suffocated. The study results were presented at a November 2016 meeting of the American Physical Society.\n\nUnited States Industrial Alcohol did not rebuild the tank. The property formerly occupied by the molasses tank and the North End Paving Company became a yard for the Boston Elevated Railway (predecessor to the Massachusetts Bay Transportation Authority). It currently is the site of a city-owned recreational complex, officially named Langone Park, featuring a Little League Baseball field, a playground, and bocce courts. Immediately to the east is the larger Puopolo Park, with additional recreational facilities.\n\nA small plaque at the entrance to Puopolo Park, placed by the Bostonian Society, commemorates the disaster. The plaque, titled \"Boston Molasses Flood\", reads:\n\nMany laws and regulations governing construction were changed as a direct result of the disaster, including requirements for oversight by a licensed architect and civil engineer.\n\nOne of the DUKW amphibious tourist vehicles operated by Boston Duck Tours, appropriately painted dark brown, has been named \"Molly Molasses\" in remembrance of the event, per the firm's practice of naming their DUKWs after famous Boston locations, events, and other bits of local culture.\n\nThe Maine folk band Schooner Fare refers to the disaster in their song \"Molasses\", from their 1985 album \"We The People\". The lyrics mistake the number of fatalities, placing it at 26 instead of 21.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54162987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54162987", "title": "Here Lies Love (musical)", "text": "Here Lies Love (musical)\n\nHere Lies Love is a biographical \"poperreta\" musical, based on the concept music album by David Byrne and Fatboy Slim. The concept album is based on David Byrne's research on the life of former Philippine first lady Imelda Marcos.\n\"Here Lies Love\" premiered off Broadway at The Public Theater in New York City in 2013 under the direction of Alex Timbers. It starred Ruthie Ann Miles in the lead role, with Jose Llana as Ferdinand Marcos and Conrad Ricamora as Ninoy Aquino. The production played an extended run at the Public before closing in August 2013. It returned for an open-ended commercial run again at the Public in April 2014. It closed at the Public on January 4, 2015. The production won five Lucille Lortel Awards in 2014.\n\nThe musical, directed once again by Timbers, opened at the Royal National Theatre in September 2014, and played a limited, sold out run through January 2015 at the Royal's newly renovated Dorfman Theatre. The London-based production was nominated for three Olivier Awards in 2015 (Best New Musical, Outstanding Achievement in Music, and Best Theatre Choreographer).\n\nA revamped production from the original Off-Broadway creative team, with the intention of recreating the immersive elements in a proscenium theater, was staged at the Seattle Repertory Theater from April 7 to June 18, 2017 (extended from May 28 after strong ticket sales). Notable returning actors included Conrad Ricamora and Melody Butiu reprising their roles from the original Off-Broadway cast as Ninoy Aquino and Estrella Cumpas, respectively, Mark Bautista from the London cast reprising his role as Ferdinand Marcos, and replacement actor Jaygee Macapugay reprising her role as Imelda Marcos from the Off-Broadway cast.\n\nAs clubbers get inside Club Millennium, the DJ sets up the party with music and with Imelda Marcos motif. The DJ instructs the clubbers to enjoy the party as they watch the club's staff reenacting the life of Imelda Marcos through the club's music. The club ensemble comes in (\"American Troglodyte\") and performs.\n\nImelda Romualdez is shown as a poor lass in stormy Leyte (\"Here Lies Love\") with best friend Estrella. Ninoy Aquino comes out of the stage and tells of his background (\"Child of the Philippines\") and his endearment to Imelda. However, Ninoy (\"Opposite Attraction\") is apprehensive of having to be in a relationship with Imelda due to their differences. While Ninoy wants to be in politics, Imelda shows only a penchant for love and beauty. Imelda eventually joins a beauty pageant (\"Rose of Tacloban\") around the same time that Ferdinand Marcos is becoming even more famous (\"A Perfect Hand\"). Soon, Ferdinand and Imelda meet each other and start dating (\"Eleven Days\") and kiss each other at the end of the number. Afterwards, Ferdinand and Imelda are married in a ceremony while Estrella (\"When She Passed By\") watches from afar, reminiscing their past. Ferdinand and Imelda (\"Sugartime Baby\") go into their honeymoon and Imelda realizes how she should become a perfect wife to the Senator in exchange of Ferdinand pulling her out of poverty (\"Walk Like a Woman\"). Afterwards, Imelda and Ferdinand (\"Don't You Agree? / Pretty Face\") start campaigning and ending up winning. Now sitting in Malacañang, (\"Dancing Together\") Imelda has been spearheading lavish parties and celebrations in the palace while under medication - the price she paid for marrying a busy statesman. In response to the parties and construction projects, the now Senator Ninoy Aquino leads (\"Fabulous One\") the opposition with great rhetoric. Imelda is surprised by this act from Ninoy (\"Men Will Do Anything\") and about the same time that Ferdinand gets into a romantic affair with Dovie Beams.\n\nImelda shows a fiercer side of herself after the gaffes (\"Star and Slave\") and has vented out her anger against a sickly Ferdinand who is asking for forgiveness from her (\"Poor Me\") - Imelda claims she will be the one running the country, now that Ferdinand is sick. Apparently, the people do not like what was happening to the Philippines (\"Please Don't\") under Imelda's leadership; but she is doing crisis control by showcasing international leaders. Unfortunately, Estrella does a tell-all interview (\"Solano Avenue\") which results into a confrontation between her and old friend Imelda, where she offers Estrella money. When Estrella refuses, Imelda has her imprisoned. Due to growing numbers of riots (\"Riots and Bombs\") in Manila, Ferdinand declares Martial Law (\"Order 1081\") and the ensemble sings of their experiences and suffering: among them is Ninoy, who grows so vocal he is imprisoned. Imelda visits Ninoy in his cell and tells him he should go to the United States and never come back (\"Seven Years\"). Ninoy goes to the United States but returns (\"Gate 37\") only to be assassinated on the tarmac. Ninoy's mother, Aurora (\"Just Ask the Flowers\") vents about her son's death and encourages the people to revolt. Watching her popularity and support crumble before her, Imelda bemoans her loss as an image of Estrella angrily criticizes her (\"Why Don't You Love Me?\"). The situation in the Philippines now out of their control, Imelda and Ferdinand are evacuated from the palace by helicopter, bringing their regime to an end.\n\nThe actress who played Imelda comes out and introduces the next number. The DJ comes down from his booth and sings about the story of the People Power Revolution while playing his guitar (\"God Draws Straight\"). The rest of the ensemble returns to do one last song and dance with the clubbers (\"Here Lies Love [curtain call]\").\n\n\n\n\nGenerally described as innovative, \"Here Lies Love\" challenges tradition by becoming an immersive show that utilizes much audience engagement and inventive set design that transforms theatre into a disco ballroom adorned by horizontal screens and neon accents.\n\nAlice Kaderlan writes \"rarely has a show that gets this much advance PR met my expectations, but I was totally captivated from the production’s opening moments. The story is a little slim and there are no great insights about Imelda but the infectious, pulsating music (by Byrne and Fatboy Slim) and dazzling production design make for a snappy, nonstop 90 minutes.\n\nJeffrey Hannan says, \"Narrative structure and character development are inviolable necessities in good theatre and Here Lies Love doesn't cheat in that regard. Despite any preconceived notions of Imelda Marcos you may harbor upon arrival, as the 90 minute event unfolds, you are demanded to see this as a story not of the somewhat laughable icon presented by American media but of a woman. And her husband. And his rival. And other core characters who give humanity to the terrible as well as tabloid headlines.\"\n\nVulture's Jesse Green states that while it is an accumulation of static disco songs, \"something wonderful is also going on.\"\n\nNot all reviews were positive. Actress Sara Porkalob characterizes the production as having \"failed to realize that Imelda was a formidable political figure in her own right. She was a crucial and knowing player in her husband's domestic and foreign policies and was not fashionable innocent, formed only by the men in her life, as the play makes her out to be.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "1438363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1438363", "title": "Hungarian State Opera House", "text": "Hungarian State Opera House\n\nThe Hungarian State Opera House () is a neo-Renaissance opera house located in central Budapest, on Andrássy út. Originally known as the Hungarian Royal Opera House, it was designed by Miklós Ybl, a major figure of 19th-century Hungarian architecture. Construction began in 1875, funded by the city of Budapest and by Emperor Franz Joseph I of Austria-Hungary, and the new house opened to the public on the 27 September 1884. Before the closure of the \"Népszínház\" in Budapest, it was the third largest opera building in the city; today it is the second largest opera house in Budapest and in Hungary.\n\nTouring groups had performed operas in the city from the early 19th century, but as Legány notes, \"a new epoch began after 1835 when part of the Kasa National Opera and Theatrical Troupe arrived in Buda\".\nToday, the opera house is home to the Budapest Opera Ball, a society event dating back to 1886.\n\nMany important artists were guests here including the composer Gustav Mahler, who was director in Budapest from 1888 to 1891 and Otto Klemperer, who was music director for three years from 1947 to 1950.\n\nIn the 1970s the state of the building prompted the Hungarian State to order a major renovation which eventually began in 1980 and lasted till 1984. The reopening was held exactly 100 years after the original opening, on the 27 September 1984.\n\nIt is a richly decorated building and is considered one of the architect's masterpieces. It was built in neo-Renaissance style, with elements of Baroque. Ornamentation includes paintings and sculptures by leading figures of Hungarian art including Bertalan Székely, Mór Than and Károly Lotz. Although in size and capacity it is not among the greatest, in beauty and the quality of acoustics the Budapest Opera House is considered to be amongst the finest opera houses in the world.\n\nThe auditorium holds 1,261 people. It is horseshoe-shaped and – according to measurements done in the 1970s by a group of international engineers – has the third best acoustics in Europe after La Scala in Milan and the Palais Garnier in Paris. Although many opera houses have been built since, the Budapest Opera House is still among the best in terms of the acoustics.\n\nIn front of the building are statues of Ferenc Erkel and Franz Liszt. Liszt is the best known Hungarian composer. Erkel composed the Hungarian national anthem, and was the first music director of the Opera House; he was also founder of the Budapest Philharmonic Orchestra.\n\nEach year the season lasts from September to the end of June and, in addition to opera performances, the House is home to the Hungarian National Ballet.\n\nThere are guided tours of the building in six languages (English, German, Spanish, French, Italian and Hungarian) almost every day.\n\nThe decoration of the symmetrical façade follows a musical theme. In niches on either side of the main entrance there are figures of two of Hungary's most prominent composers, Ferenc Erkel and Franz Liszt. Both were sculpted by Alajos Stróbl.\n\nThe foyer has marble columns. The vaulted ceiling is covered in murals by Bertalan Székely and Mór Than. They depict the nine Muses.\n\nWrought-iron lamps illuminate the wide stone staircase and the main entrance. Going to the opera was a great social occasion in the 19th century. A vast, sweeping staircase was an important element of the opera house as it allowed ladies to show off their new gowns.\n\nThe main hall is decorated with a bronze chandelier weighing 3050 kg. It illuminates a fresco by Károly Lotz, depicting the Greek gods on Olympus. The central stage proscenium arch employed the most modern technology of the time. It featured a revolving stage and metal hydraulic machinery.\n\nThe royal box is located centrally in the three-storey circle. It is decorated with sculptures symbolizing the four operatic voices - soprano, alto, tenor and bass.\nToday, a secondary building, which has been part of the Hungarian State Opera company since 1951, is the Erkel Theatre (renamed as such in 1953), which originally opened in 1911 as the \"Népopera\" (The People's Opera). It was closed in 1915, modernized with seating capacity reduced to 2,400, and reopened in 1917 as the \"Városi Színház\" (City Theatre). It fulfilled many functions over the years, including being a cinema, until it came under the control of the State Opera House. Significantly renovated in 1961, it functioned as a second venue for the company until 2007 when once again, closure and renovations took place until its reopening in 2013.\n\n\nNotes\nSources\n\n"}
{"id": "8180915", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8180915", "title": "IWA Christmas in PR", "text": "IWA Christmas in PR\n\nChristmas in PR is an annual wrestling event promoted in Puerto Rico by the International Wrestling Association (IWA). It was also briefly held by the World Wrestling League (WWL) during the former's period of inactivity.\n\nIt is held every December as the Puerto Rican wrestling year's-end show. IWA held most of it's events on weekends visiting various cities around Puerto Rico, the main night of the tour would be held Saturdays most of the times in Bayamón, Puerto Rico\n\nThe 1999 event was held at two locations: At the Roberto Clemente Coliseum in Hato Rey, Puerto Rico on December 15, 1999 and at Edwin \"Puruco\" Nolazco Coliseum in Coamo, Puerto Rico on December 16, 1999\nThe 2000 event was held at three locations: On December 15 at the Acropolis de Manati in Manati, Puerto Rico, On December 16 at Cancha Pepin Cestero in Bayamon, Puerto Rico and On December 17, in Guayama, Puerto Rico\n\nThe 2001 event was held at Cancha Pepin Cestero in Bayamon, Puerto Rico on December 15, 2001 and other unknown locations.\nThe 2002 event was held at four different locations: (presumably) On December 12, 2002 in Manati, Puerto Rico, (presumably) On December 13, 2002 in Cayey, Puerto Rico, On December 14, 2002 at \"Guillermo Angulo Coliseum\" in Carolina, Puerto Rico and On December 15, 2002 in San German, Puerto Rico.\n\nThe 2003 event was held at the \"Ruben Rodriguez Coliseum\" in Bayamon, Puerto Rico on December 13, 2003 and other unknown locations\nThe 2004 event was held at two different locations: on December 17, 2006 at \"Juan Pachin Vicens Auditorium\" in Ponce, Puerto Rico and on December 9, 2006 at \"Cancha Pepin Cestero\" in Bayamon, Puerto Rico\n\nThe 2005 event was held at the Pepin Cestero Court in Bayamon, Puerto Rico on December 17, 2005\n\nThe 2006 event was held at four different locations: on December 7, 2006 at \"Acropolis de Manati\" in Manati, Puerto Rico, On December 8, 2006 at \"Polideportivo Los Caobos\" in Ponce, Puerto Rico, On December 9, 2006 at \"Cancha Pepin Cestero\" in Bayamon, Puerto Rico and on December 10 at \"Coliseo de San Sebastian\" in San Sebastian, Puerto Rico.\n\nThe 2007 event was held at two different locations: On December 15, 2007 at \"Cancha Pepin Cestero\" in Bayamon, Puerto Rico and On December 16, 2007 at \"Dr. Pedro Albizu Campos Coliseum\" in Yabucoa, Puerto Rico.\n\nThe 2008 event was held at two different locations: On December 12, 2008 at \"Raul Pipote Oliveras Coliseum\" in Yauco, Puerto Rico and on December 13, 2008 at \"Cancha Pepin Cestero\" in Bayamon, Puerto Rico.\n\nThe 2009 event was held at two different locations: On December 11, 2009 at \"Raul Pipote Oliveras Coliseum\" in Yauco, Puerto Rico and On December 12, 2009 at \"Cancha Pepin Cestero\" in Bayamon, Puerto Rico.\n\nThe 2010 event was held at two different locations: On December 3, 2010 at \"Cancha de la Ponderosa\" in Vega Baja, Puerto Rico and On December 5, 2010 at \"Cancha Pepin Cestero\" in Bayamon, Puerto Rico.\n\nThe World Wrestling League (WWL) brought back Christmas in PR in 2016, being the second historical IWA event to be hosted by the promotion, after Golpe de Estado. The event was held at the José \"Pepín\" Cestero Complex in Bayamón, Puerto Rico on December 17, 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "1409333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1409333", "title": "IWA National Festival", "text": "IWA National Festival\n\nThe IWA National Festival & Boat Show run by the Inland Waterways Association is one of the key annual events on the United Kingdom's inland waterways. Generally referred to as the \"National\" it serves several functions:\n\n\nThe four functions of the event are to some extent conflicting and in recent years the campaigning aspect has been somewhat separated by the creation of an annual \"Campaign Cruise\".\n\nArguably it is as a gathering of like minded people that the National has been most influential. The festival brings together people from all over the country who do not meet in numbers except on the festival site. The original decisions to form both the Waterway Recovery Group and the National Association of Boat Owners both arose out of informal discussions held at the National.\n\nThe first festival was held in 1950, inspired by car rallies which Tom Rolt, one of the founders of the Inland Waterways Association, had attended prior to the Second World War. It was held at Market Harborough, as the location was not restricted to narrow boats. The rally was called the Market Harborough Festival of Boats and Arts. The arts element of the festival was an addition made by Robert Aickman, and was one of the elements that led to the eventual split between Rolt and Aickman. However, the festival was a success, and one of Rolt's innovations was the awarding of trophies for impressive service or performance, a practice which continued. The A. P. Herbert Trophy was awarded to the person who had travelled the furthest to get to the rally, and was won by Stan Offley, who had covered and had passed through 156 locks. His route from Ellesmere Port had used the Manchester Ship Canal, the Bridgewater Canal, the Leeds and Liverpool Canal, the Aire and Calder Navigation, the River Trent and the Grand Union Canal. The much shorter route using the Trent and Mersey Canal was unavailable to him, as his boat was wide, and the Trent and Mersey locks were only wide.\n\nLike many of the early rallies, that of 1962 was essentially a campaign to highlight the poor state of a particular waterway, in this case the Stourbridge Canal and its connecting waterways. The decision to hold it at Stourbridge Basin was taken in late 1961, and David Hutchings, by then chairman of the rally committee, approached British Transport Waterways, the operating arm of the British Transport Commission (BTC) to ensure that the Stourbridge Branch would be dredged, to allow the boats to reach the festival site. Faced with a refusal, Hutchings hired a dragline excavator to carry out the work himself. The British Transport Commission threatened legal action against Hutchings, the Inland Waterways Association and the Staffordshire and Worcestershire Canal Society if he proceeded, but that did not stop him. His actions gained widespread media coverage, which was extremely critical of the BTC. The BTC was abolished later that year, and the rally went ahead, with British Waterways staff assisting boats through the decrepit locks. Just two years later, British Waterways and the Staffordshire and Worcestershire Canal Society agreed to work on restoring the Stourbridge Canal and the Dudley Canal, and this early example of co-operation resulted in the canals and locks reopening in 1967.\n\nMarple Locks on the Peak Forest Canal was chosen as the site for the 1966 rally, again to highlight their condition. Access had to be along the Macclesfield Canal, as the locks themselves were derelict and could not be used. Cosmetic restoration began the following year, and the canal was reopened in 1974.\n\n1970 was the first occasion on which the national festival was not also a campaign to save a threatened part of the waterways network. It was held at Guildford on the River Wey. Part of the reasoning for this was that the festival was proving to be very popular, and there were a limited number of places that had sufficient display space and water supply for the number of boats wanting to attend. The choice of site was not universally popular, but the rally saw the formal launching of the Waterway Recovery Group, a group of volunteers who travelled the country to carry out restoration tasks on derelict waterways.\n\nManagement of the festivals is now handled by a division of Inland Waterways Enterprises Ltd called IWA Festivals. The limited company was set up in 2001 to manage the various trading activities of the Inland Waterways Association.\n\nThe statistics below are mainly taken from the IWA website but are incomplete. Some of these were called rallies rather than festivals and not all were national events.\n\nThe final column shows the overall membership of the IWA in the year in question.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31602199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31602199", "title": "Istanbul Shopping Fest", "text": "Istanbul Shopping Fest\n\nThe Istanbul Shopping Fest is an annual shopping fest held in Istanbul, Turkey. Established in 2011, the mission of the Festival is to make Istanbul the shopping, culture and entertainment center of the world.\n\nDuring the festival, which lasts 40 days and 40 nights, all the contributing shops offer special discounts. The festival especially attracts foreign tourists as the shops offer tax free shopping. The historic sites in Istanbul also participate in the festival by closing two hours later than usual.\n\nThe first Istanbul Shopping Fest took place between 18 March and 26 April 2011 and lasted for 40 days.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59009948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59009948", "title": "Italian entry into World War I", "text": "Italian entry into World War I\n\nWhen the war started in August 1914, Italy declared neutrality even though it had military alliances with Germany and Austria-Hungary. It bargained for better terms and received them from Britain and France, which promised it a slice of Austria and a slice of the Ottoman Empire. in 1915 it switched and joined the Triple Entente (i.e. the Allies).\n\nPublic and elite opinion was split on the wisdom of the war, for the nation was very poorly prepared, the army was not well trained, and there was too small an industrial and financial base. A handful of leaders made the basic decisions, notably Prime Minister Antonio Salandra and especially the two foreign ministers Antonio di San Giuliano and Sidney Sonnino. They optimistically expected that victory would bring new territories and new glory, thus closing some of Italy's internal conflicts. The poor Italian performance in combat made conditions worse and set the stage for Mussolini's fascism.\n\nThe Italian leadership was inexperienced, unfamiliar with international affairs, and often quite ill. Forces outside the government played minor roles. The business and financial communities wanted peace, but they were ignored in the decision-making. Likewise intellectuals and foreign policy experts, As well as nationalistic pressure groups, were ignored. The King in nominal power over war and peace, but he had severe psychiatric problems in 1914, and in any case turned over all major issues to his cabinet. Prime Minister Antonio Salandra took the position March 1914, had little experience in foreign affairs, and had no talent or taste for statecraft. The decision for war was in the hands of Foreign Minister Antonio di San Giuliano, an experienced diplomat, cynical and cautious. He was in poor health and died in October 1914. He was replaced by Sidney Sonnino who maneuvered to join the Allies primarily to gain territory. Tommaso Tittoni, the ambassador to France, was often consulted; he was a voice for joining the Allies. Civilian politicians marginalized the generals; the chief of staff died on July 1, and he was finally replaced by General Luigi Cadorna in late July. Cadorna exaggerated the Army's capabilities to the unsuspecting civilians, while working hard to remove its weaknesses. All of the leaders distrusted Austria, and were eager to take control of the Austrian province of Trentino-Alto-Adige in the Alps, and the Austrian city of Trieste. They all distrusted the Ottoman Empire, and were proud that Italy had recently seized control of the Ottoman holdings in Libya. Italy, Austria and Serbia were all contending for control of Albania.\n\nItaly was a formal member of the Triple Alliance, alongside Germany and Austria-Hungary. hhowever it also maintained good relations with France and Russia. The other countries understood this duality, and did not expect Italy to join in the war in 1914. Its treaty obligations did not require it to join with Germany and Austria, and it saw very little to gain from doing so. Public opinion wanted peace, in the leadership in Rome realized how poorly prepared the nation was contrasted with the powerhouse is at war. By late 1914, however, Prime Minister Antonio Salandra and Foreign Minister Sidney Sonnino decided that major territorial gains were possible by joining the Allies, and would help calm extremely serious internal dissension, by bringing glory to the victorious army, aas well as new patronage opportunities and political victories for the politicians. they plan to argue that these results would be the triumph it climax of \"Risorgimento\" (that is, Italian unification). In December 1914 Sonnino opened negotiations in Vienna, asking territorial compensation in return for remaining neutral. These talks were designed to conceal the government's true intentions from Italian public opinion, and from the countries at war. In March 1915 Sonnino began serious negotiations with London and France. They had an exaggerated opinion of what Italy could contribute, not realizing it would be a very expensive drain on Allied money and manpower and munitions. The Pact of London was signed on 26 April 1915 and Italy declared war against Austria-Hungary on 23 May 1915. Salandra boasted, the Pact of London was \"the greatest, if not the first completely spontaneous act of foreign policy executed by Italy since the Risorgimento.\"\n\nfrom the standpoint of its erstwhile allies, Italy's recent success in occupying Libya as a result of the Italo-Turkish War had sparked tension with its Triple Alliance allies, who had been seeking closer relations with the Ottoman Empire. Germans reacted to Italy's aggression by singing anti-Italian songs. Italy's relations with France were also in bad shape: France still felt betrayed by Italy's refusal to help in the Franco-Prussian War back in 1870. Italy's relations with Great Britain had been impaired by constant Italian demands for more recognition in the international stage following its occupation of Libya and its demands that other nations accept its spheres of influence in Eastern Africa and the Mediterranean Sea. \nIn the Mediterranean, Italy's relations with Greece were aggravated when Italy occupied the Greek-populated Dodecanese Islands, including Rhodes, from 1912 to 1914. These islands had been formerly controlled by the Ottoman Empire. Italy and Greece were also in open rivalry over the desire to occupy Albania. King Victor Emmanuel III himself was uneasy about Italy pursuing distant colonial adventures and said that Italy should prepare to take back Italian-populated land from Austria-Hungary as the \"completion of the Risorgimento\". This idea put Italy at odds with Austria-Hungary.\n\nFreemasonry was an influential semi-secret force in Italian politics with a strong presence among professionals and the middle class across Italy, as well as among the leadership in parliament, public administration, and the army. The two main organisation were the Grand Orient and the Grand Lodge of Italy. They had 25,000 members in 500 or more lodges. Freemasons took on the challenge of mobilizing the press, public opinion. and the leading political parties in support of Italy’s joining the Allies. traditionally, Italian nationalism focused on unification, and undermining the power of the Catholic Church. In 1914-15 they dropped the traditional pacifistic rhetoric and used instead the powerful language of Italian nationalism. Freemasonry had always promoted cosmopolitan universal values, and by 1917 onwards they demanded a League of Nations to promote a new post-war universal order based upon the peaceful coexistence of independent and democratic nations.\n\nA major hindrance to Italy's decision on what to do about the war was the political instability throughout Italy in 1914. After the formation of the government of Prime Minister Salandra in March 1914, the government attempted to win the support of nationalists and moved to the political right. \n\nAt the same time, the left became more repulsed by the government after the killing of three anti-militarist demonstrators in June. Many elements of the left including syndicalists, republicans and anarchists protested against this and the Italian Socialist Party declared a general strike in Italy. The protests that ensued became known as \"Red Week\" as leftists rioted and various acts of civil disobedience occurred in major cities and small towns such as seizing railway stations, cutting telephone wires and burning tax-registers. However, only two days later the strike was officially called off, though the civil strife continued. \n\nMilitarist nationalists and anti-militarist leftists fought on the streets until the Italian Royal Army forcefully restored calm after having used thousands of men to put down the various protesting forces. Following the invasion of Serbia by Austria-Hungary in 1914, World War I broke out as Germany and Austria stood opposed to Serbia, Russia, France and Britain. Despite Italy's official alliance to Germany and membership in the Triple Alliance, it remained neutral, claiming that the Triple Alliance was only for defensive purposes.\n\nSociety was divided over the war: Italian socialists generally opposed the war and supported pacificism, while nationalists militantly supported the war. Long-time nationalists Gabriele D'Annunzio and Luigi Federzoni and an obscure Marxist journalist and new convert to nationalist sentiment, Benito Mussolini, demanded that Italy join the war. For nationalists, Italy had to maintain its alliance with Germany and Austria in order to gain colonial territories at the expense of France. For the liberals, the war presented Italy a long-awaited opportunity to use an alliance with the Entente to gain territories from Austria-Hungary, which had long been part of Italian patriotic aims since unification. \nLuigi Federzoni emphasized the need to join the war and warned of continued disunity if it did not: \nMussolini used his new newspaper \"Il Popolo d'Italia\" and his strong oratorical skills to urge nationalists and patriotic revolutionary leftists to join the Allies: \"Enough of Libya, and on to Trento and Trieste\". Mussolini argued that it was in the interests of socialists to join the war to tear down the aristocratic Hohenzollern dynasty of Germany because it was the enemy of all European workers. Mussolini and other nationalists warned the Italian government that Italy must join the war or face revolution and called for violence against pacifists and neutralists. Left-wing nationalism also erupted in Southern Italy as socialist and nationalist Giuseppe De Felice Giuffrida saw joining the war as essential to relieving southern Italy of the rising cost of bread which had caused riots in the south, and advocated a \"war of revolution\".\n\nThere was no good reason for Italy to risk the horrors and expenses of of war--it was in it for new territory that would make the government look good and dissolve the intense internal disharmony. The strategy was to bargain for the best possible offer in terms both of territorial gains and coverage of Italian financial and military weaknesses. \n\nBy August 1914 Russia was eager for Italian entry, expecting it would open a new front that would paralyze any Austrian offensive. Russia had nothing to give Italy, so there were no results. Rome refused to make a commitment, and there was a pause when Foreign Minister San Giuliano died in October. His replacement Sonnino planned to join the winning side in order to gain new territory. At first he expected the Central Powers to win, but the war looked more like a long one, so it was not necessary to hurry and join in. Austria had too little to offer and was showing its military weakness. Berlin pressured Vienna to make more territorial concessions to Rome, but it was too little too late as Sonnino turned to the Allies. They were more than willing to promise large territorial spoils taken from Austria and Turkey. Italy's very long coastline made it exposed to the vastly superior power of the Allied navies. Public opinion was divided and Sonnino used that to mislead the cabinet. By February 1915 he was negotiating with both sides, but had decided that the Allies were making the better offer. He ignored the poor state of the Italian military, expecting the Britain and France would do all the fighting that was necessary. The Italian treasury could not fund a war, but again there were promises of money and munitions from London and Paris. In April 1915 Italy signed the London Pact with Britain and France. The pact ensured Italy the right to attain all Italian-populated lands it wanted from Austria-Hungary, as well as concessions in the Balkan Peninsula and suitable compensation for any territory gained by the Allies from Germany in Africa. Italy declared war a month later and invaded Austria from the south.\n\nThe reaction in Italy was divided: former Prime Minister Giovanni Giolitti was furious over Italy's decision to go to war against its two long-time former allies. Giolitti claimed that Italy would fail in the war, predicting high numbers of mutinies, Austro-Hungarian occupation of even more Italian territory. He warned that the failure would produce a catastrophic rebellion that would destroy the liberal-democratic monarchy and the liberal-democratic secular institutions of the state. Sonnino made the decision and ignored Giolitti's dire predictions, which came horribly true.\n\nOne major result was that Italian nationalism was greatly strengthened and became a major force at both elite and popular levels until 1945, when popular democracy became a much more important force.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9093420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9093420", "title": "Joseph A. Cafasso", "text": "Joseph A. Cafasso\n\nJoseph Anthony Cafasso Jr. (born August 2, 1956) is an American former Fox News consultant on military and counterterrorism issues who left the network after allegations surfaced that he misrepresented his military record.\n\nBorn in 1956 to Joseph A. Cafasso Sr. and Giovanna \"Jenny\" Cafasso (née Mosca), Cafasso was raised in Carteret, New Jersey . He has four sisters and one brother. Cafasso graduated from Carteret High School before enlisting in the Army in 1976.\n\nIn the late 1990s, Cafasso became involved with events following the crash of TWA Flight 800 through his association with the Associated Retired Aviation Professionals (ARAP), an organization that claimed to be conducting its own independent investigation into the cause of the crash. In November of that year, shortly after Cafasso appeared with William Donaldson at a conference sponsored by Reed Irvine's think tank Accuracy in Media, he published an article about the investigation under the byline \"legislative director\" of the ARAP. Some time thereafter, members of the group began questioning Cafasso's military background, and, according to Donaldson, Cafasso would not produce his official record when requested to do so. As a result, Donaldson disassociated his organization from Cafasso.\n\nPrior to his employment with Fox News, Cafasso had worked for the Pat Buchanan 2000 presidential campaign, fundraising and running petition drives. Official campaign finance records show that Cafasso was being reimbursed by the Buchanan campaign committee for travel and other expenses.\n\nHe also became involved with a humanitarian organization led by Serbian-American activist David Vuich that was seeking to help people in Yugoslavia in the aftermath of the 1999 NATO bombing campaign.\n\nCafasso had claimed to have been a retired lieutenant colonel in the Special Forces, a veteran of the Vietnam War, a recipient of the Silver Star, and a participant in Operation Eagle Claw. However, his official military record indicated that he served only 44 days in the U.S. Army from May to June 1976, being administratively separated from the service.\n\nAround the time the \"New York Times\" was developing a story about Cafasso he sent the newspaper an email claiming that his leaving Fox News was tantamount to \"political assassination by a group of self-centered individuals with their own political agendas.\"\n\nCafasso appeared briefly in \"Outfoxed: Rupert Murdoch's War on Journalism\", the 2004 documentary film that made the argument that Fox News had a right-wing bias. In it he delivers a short comment on decision-making at the network, comparing it to what he calls the \"Christian fundamentalist movement\".\nIn an interview published in a companion book to the film, Cafasso hinted at seeing evidence of \"right-wing religious extremism\" at the network, and claimed that Fox vice president and Washington, D.C. bureau chief Kim Hume once asked him whether he was \"an angel.\"\n\nAccording to a 2007 article published in the \"Simpson County News\", under the nickname \"Jay\", Cafasso was referenced as Director of Development for Mendenhall Ministries in Mendenhall, Mississippi, and was investigated by the local authorities who discovered that he had a long history of using many pseudonyms, claiming credentials he did not have, and claiming illness. In that article, Mendenhall Mayor Neely is quoted as saying that the last time he had seen him, Cafasso said he was going to St. Dominic's to have his gall bladder removed. The article concludes \"It is suspected warrants exist for him under other names\" and urges \"anyone with information regarding this man\" to contact the Simpson County Sheriff or a Mendenhall Police investigator.\n\nCafasso was arrested January 21, 2009 in Porter County, Indiana on a failure to appear warrant. He had previously been arrested in Porter County in 2008 for speeding, driving with a suspended license, and giving false information to police and did not appear as scheduled to address those charges. The alias he had been using in Indiana was \"Robert Stormer\"; the authenticity of Stormer's identity had previously been challenged by a journalist in October 2007. His other alleged aliases mentioned in news coverage are \"Jay Mosca\" and \"Gerry Blackwood\" and the Internet handle \"Shipdude\", allegedly used on dating sites.\n\nAt the time of his arrests, Cafasso had been living with a 63-year-old woman whom he had befriended under a false name via a dating site. According to her son, Cafasso defrauded her of her life savings. After Cafasso's January arrest, convicted criminal Jack Idema, who spoke as a consultant on one occasion for a local Fox News affiliate, attempted to obtain a laptop computer that had been used by Cafasso from the woman he had been living with. She turned it over to police. The social security number Cafasso gave police at the time of his arrest belonged to a 13-year-old girl living in Rhode Island. Cafasso also reportedly told the arresting officer that he was hiding from the CIA and the FBI.\n\n"}
{"id": "16760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16760", "title": "Kosovo War", "text": "Kosovo War\n\nThe Kosovo War was an armed conflict in Kosovo that started in late February 1998 and lasted until 11 June 1999. It was fought by the forces of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (by this time, consisting of the Republics of Montenegro and Serbia), which controlled Kosovo before the war, and the Kosovo Albanian rebel group known as the Kosovo Liberation Army (KLA), with air support from the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation (NATO) from 24 March 1999, and ground support from the Albanian army.\n\nThe KLA, formed in 1991, initiated its first campaign in 1995 when it launched attacks targeting Serbian law enforcement in Kosovo, and in June 1996 the group claimed responsibility for acts of sabotage targeting Kosovo police stations. In 1997, the organisation acquired a large amount of arms through weapons smuggling from Albania, following a rebellion which saw large numbers of weapons looted from the country's police and army posts. In 1998, KLA attacks targeting Yugoslav authorities in Kosovo resulted in an increased presence of Serb paramilitaries and regular forces who subsequently began pursuing a campaign of retribution targeting KLA sympathisers and political opponents in a drive which killed 1,500 to 2,000 civilians and KLA combatants. After attempts at a diplomatic solution failed, NATO intervened, justifying the campaign in Kosovo as a \"humanitarian war\". This precipitated a mass expulsion of Kosovar Albanians as the Yugoslav forces continued to fight during the aerial bombardment of Yugoslavia (March–June 1999). By 2000, investigations had recovered the remains of almost three thousand victims of all ethnicities, and in 2001 a United Nations administered Supreme Court, based in Kosovo, found that there had been \"a systematic campaign of terror, including murders, rapes, arsons and severe maltreatments\", but that Yugoslav troops had tried to remove rather than eradicate the Albanian population.\n\nThe war ended with the Kumanovo Treaty, with Yugoslav and Serb forces agreeing to withdraw from Kosovo to make way for an international presence. The Kosovo Liberation Army disbanded soon after this, with some of its members going on to fight for the UÇPMB in the Preševo Valley and others joining the National Liberation Army (NLA) and Albanian National Army (ANA) during the armed ethnic conflict in Macedonia, while others went on to form the Kosovo Police. After the war, a list was compiled which documented that 13,517 people were killed or went missing during the conflict. The Yugoslav and Serb forces caused the displacement of between 1.2 million to 1.45 million Kosovo Albanians. After the war, around 200,000 Serbs, Romani and other non-Albanians fled Kosovo.\n\nThe NATO bombing campaign has remained controversial, as it did not gain the approval of the UN Security Council and because it caused at least 488 Yugoslav civilian deaths, including substantial numbers of Kosovar refugees.\n\nThe modern Albanian-Serbian conflict has its roots in the explusion of the Albanians in 1877-1878 from areas that became incorporated into the Principality of Serbia. Tensions between the Serbian and Albanian communities in Kosovo simmered throughout the 20th century and occasionally erupted into major violence, particularly during the First Balkan War (1912–13), World War I (1914–18), and World War II (1939–45). After 1945 the socialist government under Josip Broz Tito systematically repressed all manifestations of nationalism throughout Yugoslavia, seeking to ensure that no republic or nationality gained dominance over the others. In particular, Tito diluted the power of Serbia—the largest and most populous republic—by establishing autonomous governments in the Serbian province of Vojvodina in the north and Kosovo and Metohija in the south. Kosovo's borders did not precisely match the areas of ethnic Albanian settlement in Yugoslavia (significant numbers of Albanians remained in the Republic of Macedonia, Montenegro and Serbia). Kosovo's formal autonomy, established under the 1945 Yugoslav constitution, initially meant relatively little in practice. The secret police (the UDBA) cracked down hard on nationalists. In 1956 a number of Albanians went on trial in Kosovo on charges of espionage and subversion. The threat of separatism was in fact minimal, as the few underground groups aiming for union with Albania had little political significance. Their long-term impact became substantial, though, as some—particularly the Revolutionary Movement for Albanian Unity, founded by Adem Demaçi—would eventually form the political core of the Kosovo Liberation Army (founded in 1990). Demaci himself was imprisoned in 1964 along with many of his followers. Yugoslavia underwent a period of economic and political crisis in 1969, as a massive government program of economic reform widened the gap between the rich north and poor south of the country.\n\nStudent demonstrations and riots in Belgrade in June 1968 spread to Kosovo in November, but Yugoslav security forces quelled them. Tito conceded some of the students' demands—in particular, representative powers for Albanians in both the Serbian and Yugoslav state bodies and better recognition of the Albanian language. The University of Pristina was established as an independent institution in 1970, ending a long period when the institution had been run as an outpost of Belgrade University. The lack of Albanian-language educational materials in Yugoslavia hampered Albanian education in Kosovo, so an agreement was struck with Albania itself to supply textbooks.\n\nIn 1969 the Serbian Orthodox Church ordered its clergy to compile data on the ongoing problems of Serbs in Kosovo, seeking to pressure the government in Belgrade to do more to protect the interests of Serbs there.\n\nIn 1974 Kosovo's political status improved further when a new Yugoslav constitution granted an expanded set of political rights. Along with Vojvodina, Kosovo was declared a province and gained many of the powers of a fully-fledged republic: a seat on the federal presidency and its own assembly, police force and national bank.\n\nProvincial power was still exercised by the Communist Party, but now devolved mainly to ethnic Albanian communists. Tito's death on 4 May 1980 ushered in a long period of political instability, worsened by growing economic crisis and nationalist unrest. The first major outbreak occurred in Kosovo's main city, Pristina, when a protest of University of Pristina students over long queues in their university canteen rapidly escalated and in late March and early April 1981 spread throughout Kosovo, causing mass demonstrations in several towns. The disturbances were quelled by the Presidency of Yugoslavia proclaiming a state of emergency, sending in riot police and the army, which resulted in numerous casualties.\n\nCommunist hard-liners instituted a fierce crackdown on nationalism of all kinds. Kosovo endured a heavy secret-police presence throughout most of the 1980s that ruthlessly suppressed any unauthorised nationalist manifestations, both Albanian and Serbian. According to a report quoted by Mark Thompson, as many as 580,000 inhabitants of Kosovo were arrested, interrogated, interned or reprimanded. Thousands of these lost their jobs or were expelled from their educational establishments. During this time tension between the Albanian and Serbian communities continued to escalate.\n\nIn February 1982 a group of priests from Serbia proper petitioned their bishops to ask \"why the Serbian Church is silent\" and why it did not campaign against \"the destruction, arson and sacrilege of the holy shrines of Kosovo\". Such concerns did attract interest in Belgrade. Stories appeared from time to time in the Belgrade media claiming that Serbs and Montenegrins were being persecuted. There was a perception among Serbian nationalists that Serbs were being driven out of Kosovo.\n\nIn addition to all this, the worsening state of Kosovo's economy made the province a poor choice for Serbs seeking work. Albanians, as well as Serbs, tended to favor their compatriots when hiring new employees, but the number of jobs was too few for the population. Kosovo was the poorest entity of Yugoslavia: the average per capita income was $795, compared with the national average of $2,635.\n\nIn 1981 it was reported that some 4,000 Serbs moved from Kosovo to central Serbia after the Kosovo Albanian riots in March that resulted in several Serb deaths and the desecration of Serbian Orthodox architecture and graveyards. Serbia reacted with a plan to reduce the power of Albanians in the province and a propaganda campaign that claimed Serbs were being pushed out of the province primarily by the growing Albanian population, rather than the bad state of the economy. 33 nationalist formations were dismantled by Yugoslav police, who sentenced some 280 people (800 fined, 100 under investigation) and seized arms caches and propaganda material.\n\nIn 1987 David Binder wrote in \"The New York Times\" about the growing ethnic tension in Yugoslavia and rising nationalism among Albanians in Kosovo and referred to the Paraćin massacre, where an ethnic Albanian soldier in the JNA killed four fellow soldiers. Binder also—writing of Slobodan Milošević's deposing of Dragiša Pavlović as head of Belgrade's party organisation shortly before—wrote that \"Mr. Milosevic accused Mr. Pavlovic of being an appeaser who was soft on Albanian radicals\", and that \"Mr. Milosevic and his supporters appear to be staking their careers on a strategy of confrontation with the Kosovo ethnic Albanians\". The article quotes the Federal Secretary for National Defence, Fleet Adm. Branko Mamula, who claimed that \"from 1981 to 1987, 216 illegal Albanian organisations with 1,435 members were discovered in the JNA\". Mamula had also said that ethnic Albanian subversives had been preparing for \"killing officers and soldiers, poisoning food and water, sabotage, breaking into weapons arsenals and stealing arms and ammunition, desertion and causing flagrant nationalist incidents in army units\".\n\nIn Kosovo an increasingly poisonous atmosphere between Serbs and Albanians led to wild rumors being spread and otherwise trivial incidents being blown out of proportion. It was against this tense background that the Serbian Academy of Sciences and Arts (SANU) conducted a survey of Serbs who had left Kosovo in 1985 and 1986, which concluded that a considerable number had left under pressure from Albanians.\n\nThe so-called SANU Memorandum, leaked in September 1986, was a draft document that focused on the political difficulties facing Serbs in Yugoslavia, pointing to Tito's deliberate hobbling of Serbia's power and the difficulties faced by Serbs outside Serbia proper. It paid special attention to Kosovo, arguing that the Kosovo Serbs were being subjected to \"physical, political, legal and cultural genocide\" in an \"open and total war\" that had been ongoing since the spring of 1981. It claimed that Kosovo's status in 1986 was a worse historical defeat for the Serbs than any event since liberation from the Ottomans in 1804, thus ranking it above such catastrophes as the World wars occupations. The Memorandum's authors claimed that 200,000 Serbs had moved out of the province over the previous 20 years and warned that there would soon be none left \"unless things change radically.\" The remedy, according to the Memorandum, was for \"genuine security and unambiguous equality for all peoples living in Kosovo and Metohija [to be] established\" and \"objective and permanent conditions for the return of the expelled [Serbian] nation [to be] created.\" It concluded that \"Serbia must not be passive and wait and see what the others will say, as it has done so often in the past.\" The SANU Memorandum provoked split reactions: Albanians saw it as a call for Serbian supremacy at the local level, claiming the Serb emigrants had left Kosovo for economic reasons, while the Slovenes and Croats saw a threat in the call for a more assertive Serbia. Serbs were divided: many welcomed it, while the Communist old guard strongly attacked its message. One of those who denounced it was Serbian Communist Party official Slobodan Milošević.\n\nIn November 1988 Kosovo's head of the provincial committee was arrested. In March 1989 Milošević announced an \"anti-bureaucratic revolution\" in Kosovo and Vojvodina, curtailing their autonomy as well as imposing a curfew and a state of emergency in Kosovo due to violent demonstrations, resulting in 24 deaths (including two policemen). Milošević and his government claimed that the constitutional changes were necessary to protect Kosovo's remaining Serbs against harassment from the Albanian majority.\n\nOn 17 November 1988 Kaqusha Jashari and Azem Vllasi were forced to resign from the leadership of the League of Communists of Kosovo (LCK). In early 1989 the Serbian Assembly proposed amendments to the Constitution of Serbia that would remove the word \"Socialist\" from the Serbian Republic's title, establish multi-party elections, remove the independence of institutions of the autonomous provinces such as Kosovo and rename Kosovo as the Autonomous Province of Kosovo and Metohija. In February Kosovar Albanians demonstrated in large numbers against the proposal, emboldened by striking miners. Serbs in Belgrade protested against the Kosovo Albanian's separatism. On 3 March 1989 the Presidency of Yugoslavia imposed special measures assigning responsibility for public security to the federal government. On 23 March the Assembly of Kosovo voted to accept the proposed amendments although most Albanian delegates abstained. In early 1990 Kosovar Albanians held mass demonstrations against the special measures, which were lifted on 18 April 1990 and responsibility for public security was again assigned to Serbia.\n\nOn 8 May 1989 Milošević became President of the Presidency of Serbia, which was confirmed on 6 December. On 22 January 1990 the 14th congress of the League of Communists of Yugoslavia (LCY) abolished the party's position as the only legal political party in Yugoslavia. In January 1990 the Yugoslav government announced it would press ahead with the creation of a multi-party system.\n\nOn 26 June 1990 Serbian authorities closed the Kosovo Assembly, citing special circumstances. On 1 or 2 July 1990 Serbia approved the new amendments to the Constitution of Serbia in a referendum. Also on 2 July, 114 ethnic Albanian delegates of the 180-member Kosovo Assembly declared Kosovo an independent republic within Yugoslavia. On 5 July the Serbian Assembly dissolved the Kosovo Assembly. Serbia also dissolved the provincial executive council and assumed full and direct control of the province. Serbia took over management of Kosovo's principal Albanian-language media, halting Albanian-language broadcasts. On 4 September 1990 Kosovar Albanians observed a 24-hour general strike, virtually shutting down the province.\n\nOn 16 or 17 July 1990 the League of Communists of Serbia (LCS) combined with the Socialist Alliance of Working People of Serbia to become the Socialist Party of Serbia (SPS), and Milošević became its first president. On 8 August 1990 several amendments to the federal Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (SFRY) Constitution were adopted enabling the establishment of a multi-party election system.\n\nOn 7 September 1990 the Constitution of the Republic of Kosovo was promulgated by the disbanded Assembly of Kosovo. Milošević responded by ordering the arrest of the deputies of the disbanded Assembly of Kosovo. The new controversial Serbian Constitution was promulgated on 28 September 1990. Multi-party elections were held in Serbia on 9 and 26 December 1990 after which Milošević became President of Serbia. In September 1991 Kosovar Albanians held an unofficial referendum in which they voted overwhelmingly for independence. On 24 May 1992 Kosovar Albanians held unofficial elections for an assembly and president of the Republic of Kosovo.\n\nOn 5 August 1991 the Serbian Assembly suspended the Priština daily \"Rilindja\", following the Law on Public Information of 29 March 1991 and establishment of the \"Panorama\" publishing house on 6 November which incorporated \"Rilindja\", which was declared unconstitutional by the federal authorities. United Nations Special Rapporteur Tadeusz Mazowiecki reported on 26 February 1993 that the police had intensified their repression of the Albanian population since 1990, including depriving them of their basic rights, destroying their educations system, and large numbers of political dismissals of civil servants.\n\nRugova's policy of passive resistance succeeded in keeping Kosovo quiet during the war with Slovenia, and the wars in Croatia and Bosnia during the early 1990s. As evidenced by the emergence of the KLA, this came at the cost of increasing frustration among Kosovo's Albanian population. In the mid-1990s, Rugova pleaded for a United Nations peacekeeping force for Kosovo. In 1997, Milošević was promoted to the presidency of the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (comprising Serbia and Montenegro since its inception in April 1992).\n\nContinuing repression convinced many Albanians that only armed resistance would change the situation. On 22 April 1996, four attacks on Serbian security personnel were carried out almost simultaneously in several parts of Kosovo. A hitherto-unknown organisation calling itself the \"Kosovo Liberation Army\" (KLA) subsequently claimed responsibility. The nature of the KLA was at first mysterious. At first, it seemed that their only goals were to stop repression from Yugoslav authorities.\nAs stated by Jakup Krasniqi, who was the spokesman of the group, Kosovo Liberation Army was formed by some members from Democratic League of Kosovo, a political party led by Ibrahim Rugova. Kosovo Liberation Army shared with Democratic League of Kosovo (LDK), a party led by Ibrahim Rugova, common goal of ending repression from Belgrade and making Kosovo independent, but KLA was opposed on, what they called, 'internal rule' of Kosovo by LDK.\n\nAlso, KLA goals included the establishment of a Greater Albanian, state stretching into surrounding FYR Macedonia, Montenegro and southern Serbia. In July 1998, in an interview for Der Spiegel, Jakup Krasniqi publicly announced that the KLA's goal was the unification of all Albanian-inhabited lands. Sulejman Selimi, a General Commander of KLA in 1998-1999, said:\n\nWhile Rugova promised to uphold the minority rights of Serbs in Kosovo, KLA was much less tolerant. Selimi stated that 'Serbs who have blood on their hands would have to leave the Kosovo'.\n\nIt is widely believed that the KLA received financial and material support from the Kosovo Albanian diaspora. In early 1997, Albania collapsed into chaos following the fall of President Sali Berisha. Military stockpiles were looted with impunity by criminal gangs, with much of the hardware ending up in western Kosovo and boosting the growing KLA arsenal. Bujar Bukoshi, shadow Prime Minister in exile (in Zürich, Switzerland), created a group called FARK (Armed Forces of the Republic of Kosova) which was reported to have been disbanded and absorbed by the KLA in 1998. The Yugoslav government considered the KLA to be \"terrorists\" and \"insurgents\" who indiscriminately attacked police and civilians, while most Albanians saw the KLA as \"freedom fighters\".\nIn 1998, the US State Department listed the KLA as a terrorist organisation, and in 1999 the Republican Policy Committee of the US Senate expressed its troubles with the \"effective alliance\" of the Democratic Clinton administration with the KLA due to \"numerous reports from reputable unofficial sources \". In 2004, John Pilger claimed that for six years prior to 1998, the KLA had been regarded by the United States as a terrorist group\n\nIn 2000, a BBC article stated that \"Nato at War\" shows how the United States, which had described the KLA as \"terrorist\", now sought a relationship with the group. While the US officially described the KLA as terrorists, author Alastair MacKenzie claims the KLA received training by the US' closest NATO-ally, the United Kingdom, since 1998 in a training camp in the mountains above the northern Albanian town of Bajram Curri.\n\nEarly in 1998, US envoy Robert Gelbard referred to the KLA as terrorists. Responding to criticism, he later clarified to the House Committee on International Relations that \"while it has committed 'terrorist acts,' it has 'not been classified legally by the U.S. Government as a terrorist organization.'\" In June 1998, he held talks with two men who claimed they were political leaders of the KLA.\n\nMeanwhile, the US held an \"outer wall of sanctions\" on Yugoslavia which had been tied to a series of issues, Kosovo being one of them. These were maintained despite the agreement at Dayton to end all sanctions. The Clinton administration claimed that Dayton bound Yugoslavia to hold discussions with Rugova over Kosovo.\n\nThe crisis escalated in December 1997 at the Peace Implementation Council meeting in Bonn, where the international community (as defined in the Dayton Agreement) agreed to give the High Representative in Bosnia and Herzegovina sweeping powers, including the right to dismiss elected leaders. At the same time, Western diplomats insisted that Kosovo be discussed, and that Yugoslavia be responsive to Albanian demands there. The delegation from Yugoslavia stormed out of the meetings in protest.\n\nThis was followed by the return of the Contact Group that oversaw the last phases of the Bosnian conflict and declarations from European powers demanding that Yugoslavia solve the problem in Kosovo.\n\nKLA attacks intensified, centering on the Drenica valley area with the compound of Adem Jashari being a focal point. Days after Robert Gelbard described the KLA as a terrorist group, Serbian police responded to the KLA attacks in the Likošane area, and pursued some of the KLA to Čirez, resulting in the deaths of 16 Albanian fighters and four Serbian policemen.\n\nDespite some accusations of summary executions and killings of civilians, condemnations from Western capitals were not as voluble as they would become later. Serb police began to pursue Jashari and his followers in the village of Donje Prekaz. A massive firefight at the Jashari compound led to the massacre of 60 Albanians, of which eighteen were women and ten were under the age of sixteen. This March 5, 1998 event provoked massive condemnation from western capitals. Madeleine Albright said that \"this crisis is not an internal affair of the FRY\".\n\nOn March 24, Yugoslav forces surrounded the village of Glodjane and attacked a rebel compound there. Despite superior firepower, the Yugoslav forces failed to destroy the KLA unit which had been their objective. Although there were deaths and severe injuries on the Albanian side, the insurgency in Glodjane was far from stamped out. It was in fact to become one of the strongest centres of resistance in the upcoming war.\n\nThe KLA's first goal was thus to merge its Drenica stronghold with their stronghold in Albania proper, and this would shape the first few months of the fighting.\n\nA new Yugoslav government was also formed at this time, led by the Socialist Party of Serbia and the Serbian Radical Party. Ultra-nationalist Radical Party chairman Vojislav Šešelj became a deputy prime minister. This increased the dissatisfaction with the country's position among Western diplomats and spokespersons.\n\nIn early April, Serbia arranged for a referendum on the issue of foreign interference in Kosovo. Serbian voters decisively rejected foreign interference in this crisis. Meanwhile, the KLA claimed much of the area in and around Deçan and ran a territory based in the village of Glođane, encompassing its surroundings. So, on May 31, 1998, the Yugoslav army and the Serb Ministry of the Interior police began an operation to clear the border of the KLA. NATO's response to this offensive was mid-June's Operation Determined Falcon, an air show over the Yugoslav borders.\n\nDuring this time, the Yugoslav President Milošević reached an arrangement with Boris Yeltsin of Russia to stop offensive operations and prepare for talks with the Albanians, who, through this whole crisis, refused to talk to the Serbian side, but not the Yugoslav. In fact, the only meeting between Milošević and Ibrahim Rugova happened on 15 May in Belgrade, two days after Richard Holbrooke announced that it would take place. One month later, Holbrooke, after a trip to Belgrade where he threatened Milošević that if he did not obey, \"what's left of your country will implode\", he visited the border areas affected by the fighting in early June; there he was famously photographed with the KLA. The publication of these images sent a signal to the KLA, its supporters and sympathisers, and to observers in general, that the US was decisively backing the KLA and the Albanian population in Kosovo.\n\nThe Yeltsin agreement included Milošević's allowing international representatives to set up a mission in Kosovo to monitor the situation there. This was the Kosovo Diplomatic Observer Mission (KDOM) that began operations in early July. The US Government welcomed this part of the agreement, but denounced the initiative's call for a mutual cease fire. Rather, the US demanded that the Serbian-Yugoslavian side should cease fire \"without linkage ... to a cessation in terrorist activities\".\n\nAll through June and into mid-July, the KLA maintained its advance. KLA surrounded Peć, Đakovica, and had set up an interim capital in the town of Mališevo (north of Orahovac). The KLA troops infiltrated Suva Reka, and the northwest of Pristina. They moved on to the Belacevec coal pits and captured them in late June, threatening energy supplies in the region. Their tactics as usual focused mainly on guerilla and mountain warfare, and harassing and ambushing Yugoslav forces and Serb police patrols.\n\nThe tide turned in mid-July when the KLA captured Orahovac. On 17 July 1998, two close-by villages to Orahovac, Retimlije and Opteruša, were also captured. Similarly, less systematic events took place in Orahovac and the larger Serb-populated village of Velika Hoča. The Orthodox monastery of Zociste from Orehovac—famous for the relics of the Saints Kosmas and Damianos and revered also by local Albanians—was robbed, its monks deported to a KLA prison camp, and, while empty, the monastery church and all its buildings were levelled to the ground by mining. This led to a series of Serb and Yugoslav offensives which would continue into the beginning of August.\n\nA new set of KLA attacks in mid-August triggered Yugoslavian operations in south-central Kosovo south of the Pristina-Peć road. This wound down with the capture of Klečka on August 23 and the discovery of a KLA-run crematorium in which some of their victims were found. The KLA began an offensive on September 1 around Prizren, causing Yugoslavian military activity there. In western Kosovo, around Peć, another offensive caused condemnation as international officials expressed fear that a large column of displaced people would be attacked.\n\nIn early mid-September, for the first time, KLA activity was reported in northern Kosovo around Podujevo. Finally, in late September, a determined effort was made to clear the KLA out of the northern and central parts of Kosovo and out of the Drenica valley itself. During this time many threats were made from Western capitals but these were tempered somewhat by the elections in Bosnia, as they did not want Serbian Democrats and Radicals to win. Following the elections, the threats intensified once again but a galvanising event was needed. They got it on September 28, when the mutilated corpses of a family were discovered by KDOM outside the village of Gornje Obrinje; the bloody doll from there became the rallying image for the ensuing war.\n\nMorale was a serious problem for Serb forces; intelligence surveys found that many soldiers disagreed with their comrades' actions. One tank commander reported, \"for the entire time I was in Kosovo, I never saw an enemy soldier and my unit was never once involved in firing at enemy targets. The tanks which cost $2.5 million each were used to slaughter Albanian children... I am ashamed\".\n\nWhen retreating from Kosovo after NATO intervention, Yugoslav units appeared combat effective with high morale and displaying large holdings of undamaged equipment. Weeks before the end of hostilities, David Fromkin has noted that \"it seemed possible that NATO unity might crack before Yugoslav morale did.\" When Clinton announced it would not deploy ground troops, that made a tremendous boost to Serbian morale.\n\nOn 9 June 1998, US President Bill Clinton declared a \"national emergency\" (state of emergency) due to the \"unusual and extraordinary threat to the national security and foreign policy of the United States\" imposed by Yugoslavia and Serbia over the Kosovo War.\n\nOn 23 September 1998 acting under Chapter VII of the United Nations Charter the UN Security Council adopted Resolution 1199. This expressed 'grave concern' at reports reaching the Secretary General that over 230,000 people had been displaced from their homes by 'the excessive and indiscriminate use of force by Serbian security forces and the Yugoslav Army', demanding that all parties in Kosovo and the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia (Serbia and Montenegro) cease hostilities and maintain a ceasefire. On 24 September the North Atlantic Council (NAC) of NATO issued an \"activation warning\" (ACTWARN) taking NATO to an increased level of military preparedness for both a limited air option and a phased air campaign in Kosovo. The other major issue for those who saw no option but to resort to the use of force was the estimated 250,000 displaced Albanians, 30,000 of whom were out in the woods, without warm clothing or shelter, with winter fast approaching.\n\nMeanwhile, the US Ambassador to the Republic of Macedonia, Christopher Hill, was leading shuttle diplomacy between an Albanian delegation, led by Rugova, and the Yugoslav and Serbian authorities. It was these meetings which were shaping what was to be the peace plan to be discussed during a period of planned NATO occupation of Kosovo. During a period of two weeks, threats intensified, culminating in NATO's Activation Order being given. NATO was ready to begin airstrikes, and Richard Holbrooke went to Belgrade in the hope of reaching an agreement with Milošević. Officially, the international community demanded an end to fighting. It specifically demanded that the Yugoslavia end its offensives against the KLA whilst attempting to convince the KLA to drop its bid for independence. Attempts were made to persuade Milošević to permit NATO peacekeeping troops to enter Kosovo. This, they argued, would allow for the Christopher Hill peace process to proceed and yield a peace agreement.\n\nOn 13 October 1998, the North Atlantic Council issued activation orders (ACTORDs) for the execution of both limited air strikes and a phased air campaign in Yugoslavia which would begin in approximately 96 hours. On 15 October the NATO Kosovo Verification Mission (KVM) Agreement for a ceasefire was signed, and the deadline for withdrawal was extended to 27 October. The Serbian withdrawal commenced on or around 25 October 1998, and Operation Eagle Eye commenced on 30 October.\n\nThe KVM was a large contingent of unarmed Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe (OSCE) peace monitors (officially known as verifiers) that moved into Kosovo. Their inadequacy was evident from the start. They were nicknamed the \"clockwork oranges\" in reference to their brightly coloured vehicles. Fighting resumed in December 1998 after both sides broke the ceasefire, and this surge in violence culminated in the killing of Zvonko Bojanić, the Serb mayor of the town of Kosovo Polje. Yugoslav authorities responded by launching a crackdown against KLA militants.\n\nThe January to March 1999 phase of the war brought increasing insecurity in urban areas, including bombings and murders. Such attacks took place during the Rambouillet talks in February and as the Kosovo Verification Agreement unraveled in March. Killings on the roads continued and increased. There were military confrontations in, among other places, the Vučitrn area in February and the heretofore unaffected Kačanik area in early March.\n\nOn 15 January 1999 the Račak massacre occurred when \"45 Kosovan Albanian farmers were rounded up, led up a hill and massacred\". The bodies had been discovered by OSCE monitors, including Head of Mission William Walker, and foreign news correspondents. Yugoslavia denied a massacre took place. The Račak massacre was the culmination of the KLA attacks and Yugoslav reprisals that had continued throughout the winter of 1998–1999. The incident was immediately condemned as a massacre by the Western countries and the United Nations Security Council, and later became the basis of one of the charges of war crimes leveled against Milošević and his top officials. This massacre was the turning point of the war. NATO decided that the conflict could only be settled by introducing a military peacekeeping force under the auspices of NATO, to forcibly restrain the two sides. Pristina, the capital of Kosovo, had been subjected to heavy firefights and segregation according to OSCE reports.\n\nOn 30 January 1999 NATO issued a statement announcing that the North Atlantic Council had agreed that \"the NATO Secretary General may authorise air strikes against targets on FRY territory\" to \"[compel] compliance with the demands of the international community and [to achieve] a political settlement\". While this was most obviously a threat to the Milošević government, it also included a coded threat to the Albanians: any decision would depend on the \"position and actions of the Kosovo Albanian leadership and all Kosovo Albanian armed elements in and around Kosovo.\"\n\nAlso on 30 January 1999 the Contact Group issued a set of \"non-negotiable principles\" which made up a package known as \"Status Quo Plus\"—effectively the restoration of Kosovo's pre-1990 autonomy within Serbia, plus the introduction of democracy and supervision by international organisations. It also called for a peace conference to be held in February 1999 at the Château de Rambouillet, outside Paris.\n\nThe Rambouillet talks began on 6 February 1999, with NATO Secretary General Javier Solana negotiating with both sides. They were intended to conclude by 19 February. The FR Yugoslavian delegation was led by then president of Serbia Milan Milutinović, while Milošević himself remained in Belgrade. This was in contrast to the 1995 Dayton conference that ended the war in Bosnia, where Milošević negotiated in person. The absence of Milošević was interpreted as a sign that the real decisions were being made back in Belgrade, a move that aroused criticism in Yugoslavia as well as abroad; Kosovo's Serbian Orthodox bishop Artemije traveled all the way to Rambouillet to protest that the delegation was wholly unrepresentative. At this time speculation about an indictment of Milošević for war crimes was rife, so his absence may have been motivated by fear of arrest.\n\nThe first phase of negotiations was successful. In particular, a statement was issued by the Contact Group co-chairmen on 23 February 1999 that the negotiations \"have led to a \"consensus\" on substantial autonomy for Kosovo, including on mechanisms for free and fair elections to democratic institutions, for the governance of Kosovo, for the protection of human rights and the rights of members of national communities; and for the establishment of a fair judicial system\". They went on to say that \"a political framework is now in place\", leaving the further work of finalising \"the implementation Chapters of the Agreement, including the modalities of the \"invited international\" civilian and military presence in Kosovo\".\n\nWhile the accords did not fully satisfy the Albanians, they were much too radical for the Yugoslavs, who responded by substituting a drastically revised text that even Russia (ally of FR Yugoslavia) found unacceptable. It sought to reopen the painstakingly negotiated political status of Kosovo and deleted all of the proposed implementation measures. Among many other changes in the proposed new version, it eliminated the entire chapter on humanitarian assistance and reconstruction, removed virtually all international oversight and dropped any mention of invoking \"the will of the people [of Kosovo]\" in determining the final status of the province.\n\nOn 18 March 1999, the Albanian, US, and British delegations signed what became known as the Rambouillet Accords while the Yugoslav and Russian delegations refused. The accords called for NATO administration of Kosovo as an autonomous province within Yugoslavia, a force of 30,000 NATO troops to maintain order in Kosovo; an unhindered right of passage for NATO troops on Yugoslav territory, including Kosovo; and immunity for NATO and its agents to Yugoslav law. They would have also permitted a continuing Yugoslav army presence of 1,500 troops for border monitoring, backed by up to 1,000 troops to perform command and support functions, as well as a small number of border police, 2,500 ordinary MUP for public security purposes (although these were expected to draw down and to be transformed), and 3,000 local police.\n\nAlthough the Yugoslav Government cited military provisions of Appendix B of the Rambouillet provisions as the reason for its objections, claiming that it was an unacceptable violation of Yugoslavia's sovereignty, these provisions were essentially the same as had been applied to Bosnia for the SFOR (Stabilisation Force) mission there after the Dayton Agreement in 1995. The two sides did not discuss the issue in detail because of their disagreements on more fundamental problems. In particular, the Serb side rejected the idea of any NATO troop presence in Kosovo to replace their security forces, preferring unarmed UN observers. Milošević himself had refused to discuss the annex after informing NATO that it was unacceptable, even after he was asked to propose amendments to the provisions which would have made them acceptable.\n\nEvents proceeded rapidly after the failure at Rambouillet and the alternative Yugoslav proposal. The international monitors from the OSCE withdrew on 22 March, for fear of the monitors' safety ahead of the anticipated NATO bombing campaign.\n\nOn 23 March, the Serbian assembly accepted the principle of autonomy for Kosovo and non-military part of the agreement, while rejecting a NATO troop presence.\n\nOn 23 March 1999 at 21:30 UTC Richard Holbrooke returned to Brussels and announced that peace talks had failed and formally handed the matter to NATO for military action. Hours before the announcement, Yugoslavia announced on national television it had declared a state of emergency citing an imminent threat of war and began a huge mobilisation of troops and resources.\n\nOn 23 March 1999 at 22:17 UTC the Secretary General of NATO, Javier Solana, announced he had directed the Supreme Allied Commander Europe (SACEUR), US Army General Wesley Clark, to \"initiate air operations in the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia.\" On 24 March at 19:00 UTC NATO started its bombing campaign against Yugoslavia.\n\nNATO's bombing campaign lasted from 24 March to 11 June 1999, involving up to 1,000 aircraft operating mainly from bases in Italy and aircraft carriers stationed in the Adriatic. Tomahawk cruise missiles were also extensively used, fired from aircraft, ships, and submarines. With the exception of Greece, all NATO members were involved to some degree. Over the ten weeks of the conflict, NATO aircraft flew over 38,000 combat missions. For the German Air Force (\"Luftwaffe\"), it was the second time it had participated in a conflict since World War II after the Bosnian War.\n\nThe proclaimed goal of the NATO operation was summed up by its spokesman as \"Serbs out, peacekeepers in, refugees back\". That is, Yugoslav troops would have to leave Kosovo and be replaced by international peacekeepers to ensure that the Albanian refugees could return to their homes. The campaign was initially designed to destroy Yugoslav air defences and high-value military targets. It did not go very well at first, with bad weather hindering many sorties early on. NATO had seriously underestimated Milošević's will to resist: few in Brussels thought that the campaign would last more than a few days, and although the initial bombardment was not insignificant, it did not match the intensity of the bombing of Baghdad in 1991.\n\nNATO military operations switched increasingly to attacking Yugoslav units on the ground, hitting targets as small as individual tanks and artillery pieces, as well as continuing with the strategic bombardment. This activity was heavily constrained by politics, as each target needed to be approved by all nineteen member states. Montenegro was bombed on several occasions but NATO eventually desisted to prop up the precarious position of its anti-Milošević leader, Đukanović.\n\nAt the start of May, a NATO aircraft attacked an Albanian refugee convoy, believing it was a Yugoslav military convoy, killing around fifty people. NATO admitted its mistake five days later and the Yugoslavs accused NATO of deliberately attacking the refugees; A later report conducted by the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY) entitled the \"Final Report to the Prosecutor by the Committee Established to Review the NATO Bombing Campaign Against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia\" opined that \"civilians were not deliberately attacked in this incident\" and that \"neither the aircrew nor their commanders displayed the degree of recklessness in failing to take precautionary measures which would sustain criminal charges.\" On May 7, NATO bombs hit the Chinese Embassy in Belgrade, killing three Chinese journalists and outraging Chinese public opinion. The United States and NATO later apologised for the bombing, saying that it occurred because of an outdated map provided by the CIA although this was challenged by a joint report from \"The Observer\" (UK) and \"Politiken\" (Denmark) newspapers which claimed that NATO intentionally bombed the embassy because it was being used as a relay station for Yugoslav army radio signals. The report by the newspaper contradicts findings in the same report by the ICTY which stated that the root of the failures in target location \"appears to stem from the land navigation techniques employed by an intelligence officer.\" In another incident at the Dubrava prison in Kosovo in May 1999, the Yugoslav government attributed as many as 85 civilian deaths to NATO bombing of the facility after NATO cited Serbian and Yugoslav military activity in the area A Human Rights Watch report later concluded that at least nineteen ethnic Albanian prisoners had been killed by the bombing, but that an uncertain number – probably more than 70 – were killed by Serbian Government forces in the days immediately following the bombing.\n\nBy the start of April, the conflict appeared little closer to a resolution and NATO countries began to seriously consider conducting ground operations in Kosovo. British Prime Minister Tony Blair was a strong advocate of ground forces and pressured the United States to agree; his strong stance caused some alarm in Washington as US forces would be making the largest contribution to any offensive. US President Bill Clinton was extremely reluctant to commit US forces for a ground offensive. Instead, Clinton authorised a CIA operation to look into methods to destabilise the Yugoslav government without training KLA troops. At the same time, Finnish and Russian diplomatic negotiators continued to try to persuade Milošević to back down. Tony Blair would order 50,000 British soldiers to be made ready for a ground offensive: most of the available British Army.\n\nMilošević finally recognised that Russia would not intervene to defend Yugoslavia despite Moscow's strong anti-NATO rhetoric. He thus accepted the conditions offered by a Finnish–Russian mediation team and agreed to a military presence within Kosovo headed by the UN, but incorporating NATO troops.\n\nThe Norwegian special forces Hærens Jegerkommando and Forsvarets Spesialkommando cooperated with the KLA in gathering intelligence information. Preparing for an invasion on 12 June, Norwegian special forces worked with the KLA on the Ramno mountain on the border between Macedonia and Kosovo and acted as scouts to monitor events in Kosovo. Together with British special forces, Norwegian special forces were the first to cross over the border into Kosovo. According to Keith Graves with the television network Sky News, the Norwegians were in Kosovo two days prior to the entry of other forces and were among the first into Pristina. The Hærens Jegerkommando's and Forsvarets Spesialkommando's job was to clear the way between the contending parties and to make local deals to implement the peace deal between the Serbians and the Kosovo Albanians.\n\nOn 3 June 1999, Milošević accepted the terms of an international peace plan to end the fighting, with the national parliament adopting the proposal amid contentious debate with delegates coming close to fistfights at some points. On 10 June, the North Atlantic Council ratified the agreement and suspended air operations.\nOn 12 June, after Milošević accepted the conditions, the NATO-led peacekeeping Kosovo Force (KFOR) began entering Kosovo. KFOR had been preparing to conduct combat operations, but in the end, its mission was only peacekeeping. It was based upon the Allied Rapid Reaction Corps headquarters commanded by then Lieutenant General Mike Jackson of the British Army. It consisted of British forces (a brigade built from 4th Armored and 5th Airborne Brigades), a French Army Brigade, a German Army brigade, which entered from the west while all the other forces advanced from the south, and Italian Army and United States Army brigades.\n\nThe first NATO troops to enter Pristina on the 12th of June 1999 were Norwegian special forces from FSK Forsvarets Spesialkommando and soldiers from the British Special Air Service 22 S.A.S, although to NATO's diplomatic embarrassment Russian troops arrived first at the airport. The Norwegian soldiers from FSK Forsvarets Spesialkommando were the first to come in contact with the Russian troops at the airport. FSK's mission was to level the negotiating field between the belligerent parties, and to fine-tune the detailed, local deals needed to implement the peace deal between the Serbians and the Kosovo Albanians.\n\nThe US contribution, known as the Initial Entry Force, was led by the 1st Armored Division, commanded by Brigadier General Peterson, and was spearheaded by a platoon from the 2nd Battalion, 505th Parachute Infantry Regiment attached to the British Forces. Other units included 1st and 2nd Battalions of the 10th Special Forces Group(Airborne) from Stuttgart Germany and Fort Carson, Colorado, TF 1–6 Infantry (1-6 infantry with C Co 1-35AR) from Baumholder, Germany, the 2nd Battalion, 505th Parachute Infantry Regiment from Fort Bragg, North Carolina, the 26th Marine Expeditionary Unit from Camp Lejeune, North Carolina, the 1st Battalion, 26th Infantry Regiment from Schweinfurt, Germany, and Echo Troop, 4th Cavalry Regiment, also from Schweinfurt, Germany. Also attached to the US force was the Greek Army's 501st Mechanised Infantry Battalion. The initial US forces established their area of operation around the towns of Uroševac, the future Camp Bondsteel, and Gnjilane, at Camp Monteith, and spent four months—the start of a stay which continues to date—establishing order in the southeast sector of Kosovo.\n\nDuring the initial incursion, the US soldiers were greeted by Albanians cheering and throwing flowers as US soldiers and KFOR rolled through their villages. Although no resistance was met, three US soldiers from the Initial Entry Force were killed in accidents.\n\nOn 1 October 1999, approximately 150 paratroopers from Alpha Company, 1/508th Airborne Battalion Combat Team from Vicenza, Italy parachuted into Uroševac as part of Operation Rapid Guardian. The purpose of the mission was primarily to warn Yugoslav President Slobodan Milošević of NATO resolve and of its rapid military capability. One US soldier, Army Ranger Sgt. Jason Neil Pringle, was killed during operations after his parachute failed to deploy. The paratroopers of the 1/508th then joined paratroopers of the 82nd Airborne and KFOR in patrolling various areas of Kosovo, without incident, through 3 October 1999.\n\nOn 15 December 1999, Staff Sergeant Joseph Suponcic of 3rd Battalion/10th Special Forces Group (Airborne) was killed, when the HMMWV in which he was a passenger struck an anti-tank mine planted by Albanians and meant for the Russian contingent with which SSG Suponcic's team was patrolling in Kosovska Kamenica.\n\nFollowing the military campaign, the involvement of Russian peacekeepers proved to be tense and challenging to the NATO Kosovo force. The Russians expected to have an independent sector of Kosovo, only to be unhappily surprised with the prospect of operating under NATO command. Without prior communication or coordination with NATO, Russian peacekeeping forces entered Kosovo from Bosnia and Herzegovina and occupied Pristina International Airport ahead of the arrival of NATO forces. This resulted in an incident during which NATO Supreme Commander Wesley Clark's wish to forcibly block the runways with NATO vehicles, to prevent any Russian reinforcement, was refused by KFOR commander General Mike Jackson.\n\nIn 2010, James Blunt described in an interview how his unit was given the assignment of securing Pristina during the advance of the 30,000-strong peacekeeping force and how the Russian army had moved in and taken control of the city's airport before his unit's arrival. Blunt shared a part in the difficult task of addressing the potentially violent international incident. According to Blunt's account there was a stand-off with the Russians, and the NATO Supreme Commander, Wesley Clark, gave provisional orders to over-power them. Whilst these were questioned by Blunt, they were rejected by General Jackson, with the now famous line, \"I'm not having my soldiers responsible for starting World War III.\"\n\nFurthermore, in June 2000, arms trading relations between Russia and Yugoslavia were exposed which led to the retaliation and bombings of Russian checkpoints and area police stations. Outpost Gunner was established on a high point in the Preševo Valley by Echo Battery 1/161 Field Artillery in an attempt to monitor and assist with peacekeeping efforts in the Russian Sector. Operating under the support of ⅔ Field Artillery, 1st Armored Division, the Battery was able to successfully deploy and continuously operate a Firefinder Radar which allowed the NATO forces to keep a closer watch on activities in the Sector and the Preševo Valley. Eventually a deal was struck whereby Russian forces operated as a unit of KFOR but not under the NATO command structure.\n\nBecause of the country's restrictive media laws, the Yugoslav media carried little coverage of events in Kosovo, and the attitude of other countries to the humanitarian disaster that was occurring there. Thus, few members of the Yugoslav public expected NATO intervention, instead thinking that a diplomatic agreement would be reached.\n\nSupport for the Kosovan War and, in particular, the legitimacy of NATO's bombing campaign came from a variety of sources. In a 2009 article, David Clark claimed \"Every member of NATO, every EU country, and most of Yugoslavia's neighbours, supported military action.\" Statements from the leaders of United States, Czech Republic and United Kingdom, respectively, described the war as one \"upholding our values, protecting our interests, and advancing the cause of peace\", \"the first war for values\" and one \"to avert what would otherwise be a humanitarian disaster in Kosovo.\" Others included the then UN Secretary General Kofi Annan who was reported by some sources as acknowledging that the NATO action was legitimate who emphasised that there were times when the use of force was legitimate in the pursuit of peace though Annan stressed that the \"[UN Security] Council should have been involved in any decision to use force.\" The distinction between the legality and legitimacy of the intervention was further highlighted in two separate reports. One was conducted by the Independent International Commission on Kosovo, entitled \"The Kosovo Report\", which found that:\n\nIt concluded that \"the NATO military intervention was illegal but legitimate\", The second report was published by the NATO Office of Information and Press which reported that, \"the human rights violations committed on a large scale in Kosovo provide an incontestable ground with reference to the humanitarian aspect of NATO's intervention.\" Some critics note that NATO did not have the backing of the United Nations Security Council meant that its intervention had no legal basis, but according to some legal scholars, \"there are nonetheless certain bases for that action that are not legal, but justified.\"\n\nAside from politicians and diplomats, commentators and intellectuals also supported the war. Michael Ignatieff called NATOs intervention a \"morally justifiable response to ethnic cleansing and the resulting flood of refugees, and not the cause of the flood of refugees\" while Christopher Hitchens said NATO intervened only, \"when Serbian forces had resorted to mass deportation and full-dress ethnic \"cleansing.\" Writing in \"The Nation\", Richard A. Falk wrote that, \"the NATO campaign achieved the removal of Yugoslav military forces from Kosovo and, even more significant, the departure of the dreaded Serbian paramilitary units and police\" while an article in \"The Guardian\" wrote that for Mary Kaldor, Kosovo represented a laboratory on her thinking for human security, humanitarian intervention and international peacekeeping, the latter two which she defined as, \"a genuine belief in the equality of all human beings; and this entails a readiness to risk lives of peacekeeping troops to save the lives of others where this is necessary.\" Reports stated there had been no peace between Albanians and Serbs, citing the deaths of 1,500 Albanians and displacement of 270,000 prior to NATO intervention.\n\nSome criticised the NATO intervention as a political diversionary tactic, coming as it did on the heels of the Monica Lewinsky scandal, pointing to the fact that coverage of the bombing directly replaced coverage of the scandal in US news cycles. Also, some point out that before the bombing, rather than there being an unusually bloody conflict, the KLA was not engaged in a widespread civil war against Yugoslav forces and the death toll among all concerned (including ethnic Albanians) skyrocketed following NATO intervention.\n\nUS President Clinton and his administration were accused of inflating the number of Kosovo Albanians killed by state forces. After the bombing of the Chinese embassy in Belgrade, Chinese President Jiang Zemin said that the US was using its economic and military superiority to aggressively expand its influence and interfere in the internal affairs of other countries. Chinese leaders called the NATO campaign a dangerous precedent of naked aggression, a new form of colonialism, and an aggressive war groundless in morality or law. It was seen as part of a plot by the US to destroy Yugoslavia, expand eastward and control all of Europe.\n\nThe United Nations Charter does not allow military interventions in other sovereign countries with few exceptions which, in general, need to be decided upon by the United Nations Security Council; this legal enjoinment has proved controversial with many legal scholars who argue that though the Kosovo War illegal, it was still legitimate. The issue was brought before the UN Security Council by Russia, in a draft resolution which, \"inter alia\", would affirm \"that such unilateral use of force constitutes a flagrant violation of the United Nations Charter\". China, Namibia, and Russia voted for the resolution, the other members against, thus it failed to pass.\n\nThe war inflicted many casualties. Already by March 1999, the combination of fighting and the targeting of civilians had left an estimated 1,500–2,000 civilians and combatants dead. Final estimates of the casualties are still unavailable for either side.\n\nPerhaps the most controversial deliberate attack of the war was that made against the headquarters of Serbian television on April 23, 1999, which killed at least fourteen people.\n\nPrivately NATO European members were divided about the aims and necessity of the war. Most European allies did not trust the motives of Kosovan Albanians and according to NATO General Wesley Clark, \"There was a sense among some that NATO was fighting on the wrong side\" in a war between Christians and Muslims.\n\nBy contrast, Susan Sontag, who witnessed the 3-year long siege of Sarajevo, said that the NATO intervention came \"eight years too late\" and that Milosevic should have been stopped already during the bombing of Dubrovnik in 1991.\n\nThe Democratic League of Kosovo led by Ibrahim Rugova had been the leading political entity in Kosovo since its creation in 1989. Its parallel government in exile, was led by Bujar Bukoshi and its Minister of Defence until 1998 was the former Yugoslav colonel Ahmet Krasniqi. DLK politicians opposed the armed conflict and were not ready to accept KLA as a political factor in the region and tried to persuade the population not to support it. At one point Rugova even claimed that it was set up by Serbian intelligence as an excuse to invade, or to discredit DLK itself. Nevertheless, the support for KLA even within DLK membership and specifically in the diaspora grew, together with the dissatisfaction with and antagonism toward DLK. KLA initial personnel were members or former members of the DLK. With the changes of the international stance towards KLA and its recognition as a factor in the conflict, DLK's position also shifted. The Armed Forces of the Republic of Kosovo known as FARK, were established in order to place DLK as a military factor in addition to a political one. A parallel paramilitary structure as FARK was not received well from the KLA side. Ahmet Krasniqi was shot in Tirana on 21 September 1998. The responsible people were not found, although several theories emerged. The Democratic Party of Albania and its leader Sali Berisha, strong supporters of DLK and FARK, accused SHIK and the Albanian government, who from their side were supporting KLA, as the responsible parties. FARK was never a determining factor in the war and was not involved in any battles. It did not number more than few hundred men, and it did not show any commitment to fighting the Serbs, accepting a broader autonomy as a solution rather than independence. Some of the FARK officers were incorporated later under the KLA umbrella. Besides FARK, DLK would also politically and diplomatically oppose KLA and their methods. In a meeting with the US president Clinton on 29 May 1999, Rugova accompanied by Fehmi Agani, Bukoshi, and Veton Surroi, accused KLA of being a left-wing ideology bearer, and some of its leaders as being \"nostalgic to known communist figures, such as Enver Hoxha\", referring to the People's Movement of Kosovo (LPK) nucleus of KLA, an old underground rival with strong left-wing orientation.\n\nRugova was present at the negotiations held in Rambouillet and supported the Rambouillet Agreement since the first round, but without any influence. Following the NATO bombing of Yugoslavia and the massive ethnic cleansing of the Albanian population, there was a total Albanian support for the NATO campaign, including the DLK side. Surprisingly, Ibrahim Rugova showed up in Belgrade as a guest of Milosevic. At a joint TV appearance on April 1, ending in Rugova-Milosevic handshake, Rugova asked for a peaceful solution and the bombings to stop. In the same conference, Millosevic presented his proposal for Kosovo as part of a three-unit federal Yugoslavian state. Rugova's presence in Belgrade scattered another set of accusations from KLA and its supporters. Besides being 'passive' and 'too peaceful', Rugova and DLK were accused as 'traitors'. Following Rugova's passage to Italy on May 5, Rugova claimed that he had been under duress and any \"agreement\" with Milosovic had no meaning. The general opinion was the DLK structures and its leader would vanish from the political scene of Kosovo after the Yugoslav withdrawal. Rugova himself stayed for several weeks out of Kosovo, while the prime-minister Bukoshi and other leading membership returned. But since only a fraction of Kosovo Albanians participated actively in the war, the support for DLK increased again as a way of opposing the arrogance of many KLA leaders who openly engaged in controlling the economical and political life within the vacuum created right before the deployment of UNMIK. In the October 2000 local elections, DLK was confirmed as the leading political party.\n\nThe feud between KLA and DLK continued in the post-war Kosovo. Many political activists of DLK were assassinated with the perpetrators not being found, including Xhemajl Mustafa, Rugova's most trusted aide.\n\nIn June 2000, the Red Cross reported that 3,368 civilians (mainly Kosovar Albanians, but with several hundred Serbs, and Roma) were still missing, nearly one year after the conflict, most of whom it concluded had to be 'presumed dead'.\n\nA study by researchers from the Center for Disease Control and Prevention in Atlanta, Georgia published in 2000 in medical journal the Lancet estimated that \"12,000 deaths in the total population\" could be attributed to war. This number was achieved by surveying 1,197 households from February 1998 through June 1999. 67 out of the 105 deaths reported in the sample population were attributed to war-related trauma, which extrapolates to be 12,000 deaths if the same war-related mortality rate is applied to Kosovo's total population. The highest mortality rates were in men between 15 and 49 (5,421 victims of war) as well as for men over 50 (5,176 victims). For persons younger than 15, the estimates were 160 victims for males and 200 for females. For women between 15–49 the estimate is that there were 510 victims; older than 50 years the estimate is 541 victims. The authors stated that it was not \"possible to differentiate completely between civilian and military casualties\".\n\nIn the 2008 joint study by the Humanitarian Law Centre (an NGO from Serbia and Kosovo), The International Commission on Missing Person, and the Missing Person Commission of Serbia made a name-by-name list of war and post-war victims. According to the Kosovo Memory Book, 13,421 people were killed in Kosovo during the conflict, from 1 January 1998 up until December 2000. Of that sum, 10,533 were Albanians, 2,238 were Serbs, 126 Roma, 100 Bosniaks and others. In August 2017, the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights reported that between 1998 and 1999, more than 6,000 people had gone missing in Kosovo, and that 1,658 remained missing, with neither the person nor the body having, at that time, been found.\n\nYugoslavia claimed that NATO attacks caused between 1,200 and 5,700 civilian casualties. NATO's Secretary General, Lord Robertson, wrote after the war that \"the actual toll in human lives will never be precisely known\" but he then offered the figures found in a report by Human Rights Watch as a reasonable estimate. This report counted between 488 and 527 civilian deaths (90 to 150 of them killed from cluster bomb use) in 90 separate incidents, the worst of which were the 87 Albanian refugees who perished at the hands of NATO bombs, near Koriša. Attacks in Kosovo overall were more deadly due to the confused situation with many refugee movements—the one-third of the incidents there account for more than half of the deaths.\n\nVarious estimates of the number of killings attributed to Yugoslav forces have been announced through the years. An estimated 800,000 Kosovo Albanians fled and an estimated 7,000 to 9,000 were killed, according to \"The New York Times\". The estimate of 10,000 deaths is used by the US Department of State, which cited human rights abuses as its main justification for attacking Yugoslavia.\n\nStatistical experts working on behalf of the ICTY prosecution estimate that the total number of dead is about 10,000. Eric Fruits, a professor at Portland State University, argued that the experts' analyses were based on fundamentally flawed data and that none of its conclusions are supported by any valid statistical analysis or tests.\n\nIn August 2000, the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY) announced that it had exhumed 2,788 bodies in Kosovo, but declined to say how many were thought to be victims of war crimes. KFOR sources told Agence France Presse that of the 2,150 bodies that had been discovered up until July 1999, about 850 were thought to be victims of war crimes.\n\nKnown mass graves:\n\nMilitary casualties on the NATO side were light. According to official reports, the alliance suffered no fatalities as a direct result of combat operations. In the early hours of May 5, a US military AH-64 Apache helicopter crashed not far from the border between Serbia and Albania.\n\nAnother US AH-64 helicopter crashed about northeast of Tirana, Albania's capital, very close to the Albanian/Kosovo border. According to CNN, the crash happened northeast of Tirana. The two US pilots of the helicopter, Army Chief Warrant Officers David Gibbs and Kevin L. Reichert, died in that crash. They were the only NATO fatalities during the war, according to NATO official statements.\n\nThere were other casualties after the war, mostly due to land mines. During the war, the alliance reported the loss of the first US stealth aeroplane (an F-117 Nighthawk) ever shot down by enemy fire. Furthermore, an F-16 fighter was lost near Šabac and 32 unmanned aerial vehicles (UAVs) from different nations were lost. The wreckages of downed UAVs were shown on Serbian television during the war. Some US sources claim a second F-117A was also heavily damaged, and although it made it back to its base, it never flew again. A-10 Thunderbolts have been reported as losses, with two shot down and another two damaged. Three US soldiers riding a Humvee in a routine patrol were captured by Yugoslav special forces across the Macedonian border.\n\nAt first, NATO claimed to have killed 10,000 Yugoslav troops, while Yugoslavia claimed only 500; the NATO investigative teams later corrected it to a few hundred Yugoslav troops killed by air strikes. In 2001, the Yugoslav authorities claimed 462 soldiers were killed and 299 wounded by NATO airstrikes. Later, in 2013, Serbia claimed that 1,008 Yugoslav soldiers and policemen had been killed by NATO bombing. NATO initially claimed that 5,000 Yugoslav servicemen had been killed and 10,000 had been wounded during the NATO air campaign. NATO has since revised this estimate to 1,200 Yugoslav soldiers and policemen killed.\n\nOf military equipment, NATO destroyed around 50 Yugoslav aircraft including 6 MiG-29s destroyed in air-to-air combat. A number of G-4 Super Galebs were destroyed in their hardened aircraft shelter by bunker-busting bombs which started a fire which spread quickly because the shelter doors were not closed. At the end of war, NATO officially claimed that they had destroyed 93 Yugoslav tanks. Yugoslavia admitted a total of 3 destroyed tanks. The latter figure was verified by European inspectors when Yugoslavia rejoined the Dayton accords, by noting the difference between the number of tanks then and at the last inspection in 1995. NATO claimed that the Yugoslav army lost 93 tanks (M-84's and T-55's), 132 APCs, and 52 artillery pieces. \"Newsweek\", the second-largest news weekly magazine in the U.S, gained access to a suppressed US Air Force report that claimed the real numbers were \"3 tanks, not 120; 18 armored personnel carriers, not 220; 20 artillery pieces, not 450\". Another US Air Force report gives a figure of 14 tanks destroyed. Most of the targets hit in Kosovo were decoys, such as tanks made out of plastic sheets with telegraph poles for gun barrels, or old World War II–era tanks which were not functional. Anti-aircraft defences were preserved by the simple expedient of not turning them on, preventing NATO aircraft from detecting them, but forcing them to keep above a ceiling of , making accurate bombing much more difficult. Towards the end of the war, it was claimed that carpet bombing by B-52 aircraft had caused huge casualties among Yugoslav troops stationed along the Kosovo–Albania border. Careful searching by NATO investigators found no evidence of any such large-scale casualties.\n\nThe most significant loss for the Yugoslav Army was the damaged and destroyed infrastructure. Almost all military air bases and airfields (Batajnica, Lađevci, Slatina, Golubovci and Đakovica) and other military buildings and facilities were badly damaged or destroyed. Unlike the units and their equipment, military buildings could not be camouflaged. thus, defence industry and military technical overhaul facilities were also seriously damaged (Utva, Zastava Arms factory, Moma Stanojlović air force overhaul centre, technical overhaul centres in Čačak and Kragujevac). In an effort to weaken the Yugoslav Army, NATO targeted several important civilian facilities (the Pančevo oil refinery, Novi Sad oil refinery, bridges, TV antennas, railroads, etc.)\n\nAround 1,500 Kosovo Liberation Army soldiers were killed, according to KLA's own estimates. HLC registered 2,057 KLA insurgents killed in its comprehensive database.\n\nThe Yugoslav and Serb forces caused the displacement of between 1.2 million to 1.45 million Kosovo Albanians. After the end of the war in June 1999, numerous Albanian refugees started returning home from neighboring countries. By November 1999, according to the UN High Commissioner for Refugees, 848,100 out of 1,108,913 had returned.\n\nAccording to the 1991 Yugoslavia Census, of the nearly 2 million population of Kosovo in 1991, 194,190 were Serbs, 45,745 were Romani and 20,356 were Montenegrins. According to the Human Rights Watch, 200,000 Serbs and thousands of Roma fled from Kosovo during and after the war. A 2001 Human Rights Watch's report suggested that the removal of ethnic minorities in Kosovo was done in order to better justify an independent state, and there were over 1000 reports of beatings and torturing of minorities in Kosovo by ethnic Albanians in 2000 after the war finished. Homes of minorities were burned and Orthodox churches and monasteries were destroyed in the immediate aftermath of KFOR's arrival in Kosovo. Attackers combined this destruction with killings, harassment and intimidation designed to force people from their homes and communities. The Yugoslav Red Cross had also registered 247,391 mostly Serbian refugees by November. More than 164,000 Serbs left Kosovo during the seven weeks which followed Yugoslav and Serb forces' withdrawal from, and the NATO-led Kosovo Force (KFOR) entering Kosovo.\n\nFurther inter-ethnic violence took place in 2000, and 2004.\n\nFor the government of Serbia, cooperation with the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia is \"still regarded as a distressing obligation, the necessary price for joining the European Union\". Yugoslav President Slobodan Milošević, along with Milan Milutinović, Nikola Šainović, Dragoljub Ojdanić and Vlajko Stojiljković were charged by the ICTY with crimes against humanity including murder, forcible transfer, deportation, and \"persecution on political, racial or religious grounds\". In 2001, then-President Vojislav Koštunica \"fought tooth and nail\" against attempts to put Milošević before an international court but was unable to prevent this happening after further atrocities were revealed. In October 2003, there were more indictments against former armed forces chief of staff Nebojša Pavković, former army corps commander Vladimir Lazarević, former police official Vlastimir Đorđević, and Sreten Lukić. All were indicted for crimes against humanity and violations of the laws or customs of war.\nLater, the United Nations International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia (ICTY) legally found that FRY and Serbian forces \"use[d] violence and terror to force a significant number of Kosovo Albanians from their homes and across the borders, in order for the state authorities to maintain control over Kosovo ... This campaign was conducted by army and Interior Ministry police forces (MUP) under the control of FRY and Serbian authorities, who were responsible for mass expulsions of Kosovo Albanian civilians from their homes, as well as incidents of killings, sexual assault, and the intentional destruction of mosques.\" Religious objects were also damaged or destroyed. Of the 498 mosques in Kosovo that were in active use, the International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY) documented that 225 mosques sustained damage or destruction by the Yugoslav Serb army. In all, eighteen months of the Yugoslav Serb counterinsurgency campaign between 1998-1999 within Kosovo resulted in 225 or a third out of a total of 600 mosques being damaged, vandalised, or destroyed. During the war, Islamic architectural heritage posed for Yugoslav Serb paramilitary and military forces as Albanian patrimony with destruction of non-Serbian architectural heritage being a methodical and planned component of ethnic cleansing in Kosovo.\n\nThe ICTY also leveled indictments against KLA members Fatmir Limaj, Haradin Bala, Isak Musliu, and Agim Murtezi for crimes against humanity. They were arrested on February 17 and 18, 2003. Charges were soon dropped against Agim Murtezi as a case of mistaken identity and Fatmir Limaj was acquitted of all charges on November 30, 2005 and released. The charges were in relation to the prison camp run by the defendants at Lapušnik between May and July 1998.\n\nIn 2008, Carla Del Ponte published a book in which she alleged that, after the end of the war in 1999, Kosovo Albanians were smuggling organs of between 100 and 300 Serbs and other minorities from the province to Albania.\n\nIn March 2005, a UN tribunal indicted Kosovo Prime Minister Ramush Haradinaj for war crimes against the Serbs. On March 8, he tendered his resignation. Haradinaj, an ethnic Albanian, was a former commander who led units of the Kosovo Liberation Army and was appointed Prime Minister after winning an election of 72 votes to three in the Kosovo's Parliament in December 2004. Haradinaj was acquitted on all counts along with fellow KLA veterans Idriz Balaj and Lahi Brahimaj. The Office of the Prosecutor appealed their acquittals, resulting in the ICTY ordering a partial retrial. On 29 November 2012 all three were acquitted for the second time on all charges. According to Human Rights Watch (HRW), \"800 non-Albanian civilians were kidnapped and murdered from 1998 to 1999\". After the war, \"479 people have gone missing ... most of them Serbs\".\n\nIn April 2014, the Assembly of Kosovo considered and approved the establishment of a special court to try cases involving crimes and other serious abuses committed in 1999-2000 by members of the KLA. There have been many reports of abuses and war crimes committed by the KLA during and after the conflict, such as massacres of civilians, prison camps, and destruction of medieval churches and monuments.\n\nThe Yugoslav government and a number of international pressure groups (e.g., Amnesty International) claimed that NATO had carried out war crimes during the conflict, notably the bombing of the Serbian TV headquarters in Belgrade on April 23, 1999, where 16 people were killed and 16 more were injured. Sian Jones of Amnesty stated, \"The bombing of the headquarters of Serbian state radio and television was a deliberate attack on a civilian object and as such constitutes a war crime\". A later report conducted by the ICTY entitled \"Final Report to the Prosecutor by the Committee Established to Review the NATO Bombing Campaign Against the Federal Republic of Yugoslavia\" concluded that, \"Insofar as the attack actually was aimed at disrupting the communications network, it was legally acceptable\" and that, \"NATO's targeting of the RTS building for propaganda purposes was an incidental (albeit complementary) aim of its primary goal of disabling the Serbian military command and control system and to destroy the nerve system and apparatus that keeps Milosević in power.\" In regards to civilian casualties, it further stated that though they were, \"unfortunately high, they do not appear to be clearly disproportionate.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Kosovo War had a number of important consequences in terms of the military and political outcome. The status of Kosovo remains unresolved; international negotiations began in 2006 to determine Kosovo's level of autonomy as envisaged under UN Security Council Resolution 1244, but efforts failed. The province is administered by the United Nations despite its unilateral declaration of independence on February 17, 2008.\nThe UN-backed talks, led by UN Special Envoy Martti Ahtisaari, had begun in February 2006. Whilst progress was made on technical matters, both parties remained diametrically opposed on the question of status itself. In February 2007, Ahtisaari delivered a draft status settlement proposal to leaders in Belgrade and Pristina, the basis for a draft UN Security Council Resolution which proposes \"supervised independence\" for the province, which is in contrary to UN Security Council Resolution 1244. By July 2007, the draft resolution, which was backed by the United States, United Kingdom, and other European members of the Security Council, had been rewritten four times to try to accommodate Russian concerns that such a resolution would undermine the principle of state sovereignty. Russia, which holds a veto in the Security Council as one of five permanent members, stated that it would not support any resolution which is not acceptable to both Belgrade and Priština.\n\nThe campaign exposed significant weaknesses in the US arsenal, which were later addressed for the Afghanistan and Iraq campaigns. Apache attack helicopters and AC-130 Spectre gunships were brought up to the front lines but were never used after two Apaches crashed during training in the Albanian mountains. Stocks of many precision missiles were reduced to critically low levels. For combat aircraft, continuous operations resulted in skipped maintenance schedules, and many aircraft were withdrawn from service awaiting spare parts and service. Also, many of the precision-guided weapons proved unable to cope with Balkan weather, as the clouds blocked the laser guidance beams. This was resolved by retrofitting bombs with Global Positioning System satellite guidance devices that are immune to bad weather. Although pilotless surveillance aircraft were extensively used, often attack aircraft could not be brought to the scene quickly enough to hit targets of opportunity. This led missiles being fitted to Predator drones in Afghanistan, reducing the \"sensor to shooter\" time to virtually zero.\n\nKosovo also showed that some low-tech tactics could reduce the impact of a high-tech force such as NATO; the Milošević government cooperated with Saddam Hussein's Ba'athist regime in Iraq, passing on many of the lessons learned. The Yugoslav army had long expected to need to resist a much stronger enemy, either Soviet or NATO, during the Cold War and had developed effective tactics of deception and concealment in response. These would have been unlikely to have resisted a full-scale invasion for long, but were probably used to mislead overflying aircraft and satellites. Among the tactics used were:\n\nAs a result of the Kosovo War, the North Atlantic Treaty Organisation created a second NATO medal, the NATO Medal for Kosovo Service, an international military decoration. Shortly thereafter, NATO created the Non-Article 5 Medal for Balkans service to combine both Yugoslavian and Kosovo operations into one service medal.\n\nDue to the involvement of the United States armed forces, a separate US military decoration, known as the Kosovo Campaign Medal, was established by President Bill Clinton in 2000.\n\nThe Kosovo Campaign Medal (KCM) is a military award of the United States Armed Forces established by Executive Order 13154 of President Bill Clinton on May 3, 2000. The medal recognises military service performed in Kosovo from March 24, 1999 through December 31, 2013.\n\nA variety of weapons were used by the Yugoslav security forces and the Kosovo Liberation Army, NATO only operated aircraft and naval units during the conflict.\n\nThe weapons used by Yugoslav government were mostly Yugoslav made, while almost all of their AA units were Soviet made.\n\nThe weapons used by the Kosovo Liberation Army were mostly Soviet Kalashnikovs and Chinese derivatives of the AK-47 and some Western weaponry.\n\n\nAircraft used by NATO were:\nGuided missiles used were: \n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6763556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6763556", "title": "Melodifestivalen 1982", "text": "Melodifestivalen 1982\n\nMelodifestivalen 1982 was the selection for the 22nd song to represent Sweden at the Eurovision Song Contest. It was the 21st time that this system of picking a song had been used. 90 songs were submitted to SVT for the competition. The final was broadcast on TV1 but was not broadcast on radio.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21520809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21520809", "title": "New York Sephardic Jewish Film Festival", "text": "New York Sephardic Jewish Film Festival\n\nThe New York Sephardic Jewish Film Festival (NYSJFF), also known as the Sephardic Film Festival, is an annual New York City Film festival sponsored by the American Sephardi Federation. It was founded in 1990. The 20th Anniversary Edition of the festival is from March 30 to April 6, 2017.\n\nThe festival showcases films about Jewish communities of the Mediterranean and Asia, including Morocco, Yemen, Ethiopia, Kurdistan, Iran/Persia and India, as well as the Sephardi descendants of the Jews expelled from Spain.\n\nThe films are part of a movement towards popular narrative movies and more personal documentaries taking advantage of the freedom given by improvements in video cameras and associated digital hardware to pursue a more personal on-screen vision of what it means to be Jewish.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28481328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28481328", "title": "Newsbook", "text": "Newsbook\n\nNewsbooks, also called news-books, were more sophisticated than posters. They were the 16th-century precursors to today's newspapers. They covered a single big story, such as a battle, a disaster or a sensational trial.\n\nThe \"Oxford English Dictionary\" describes them as \"A small newspaper. In common use from about 1650 to 1700\".\n\n"}
{"id": "23438649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23438649", "title": "Organised Chaos LAN Party", "text": "Organised Chaos LAN Party\n\nOrganised Chaos (normally abbreviated as OC), was a monthly LAN Party held in Cape Town, South Africa at the Sunningdale Sports Complex as well as other venues in both Bloemfontein and Port Elizabeth. The LAN has a current capacity of 540 after moving away from the Bellville Velodrome in April 2012. The largest LAN Party held by Organised Chaos was in December 2010 at the Bellville Velodrome with a total of 1263 attendees. Its main organizers are Dietmar Rheeder-Kleist, Lance Aylward and Kyra Rheeder-Kleist. It is currently the largest monthly gaming event and LAN party in Africa<ref name=http://portal.oc.co.za/stats/bookings\"></ref>\n\nThe venues used by Organised Chaos to host LAN parties.\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe Organised Gaming Association arranged a number of tournaments including the Frontosa Call of Duty 4 series and the Cafe Viva DotA series. The establishment of OGA was met with controversy after it was announced that members would have to sign MSSA (Mind Sports South Africa) membership forms.\n\nThe Organised Gaming Association has gone dormant and is no longer as a means of hosting tournaments pending a restructuring and massive development of a software framework required to run OGA. \n\nThe current tournament structure is formed by its crew members for each event with both social and competitive tournaments taking place. Prize money for the tournaments includes the pool of players buying into the tournaments and the internal contribution from Organised Chaos revenue.\n\nThe current Organised Chaos crew members who assist with the setup of the venues for each event, writing articles, web and application development, bookings, server administration, hosting tournaments, photography and technical assistance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47669700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47669700", "title": "Osor Musical Evenings", "text": "Osor Musical Evenings\n\nOsor Musical Evenings () is a Croatian classical music festival that takes place in the historical town of Osor, on the island of Cres in the Kvarner Gulf. The festival was founded in 1976 by Daniel Marušić, a renowned Croatian TV and Opera director, who was its artistic and executive director until his death in 2009. The original idea behind the festival was to revive Osor during the summer, and to create a festival dedicated mostly to works by historical and contemporary Croatian composers. Although in the first decades festival held conferences, theater and opera productions and art exhibitions, today Osor Musical Evenings are oriented exclusively to musical programs, including classical and Contemporary classical music, and occasionally Early music and electronical music. The main concert hall is the late-15th century church of the Assumption of the Virgin Mary (the former cathedral of Osor), while other concert spaces are used, such as the main square in Osor and archeological site of St Peter church. For their outstanding contribution in the field of classical music in Croatia, the festival was declared national in 2011. The top notch musicians over the last several years include L'Arpeggiata and Christina Pluhar, Giovanni Sollima, Diana Haller, Renata Pokupić, Aleksandar Marković among others.\n\nIn the last 40 years around 300 new compositions were first performed in Osor, many of which were commissioned by the festival or dedicated to Osor. The major festival commission is Osor Trilogy: Osor Requiem (Boris Papandopulo, 1978), Osor Mystery (Boris Papandopulo, 1979), and Osor Cry (Berislav Šipuš, 2009) for soloists, mixed choir, and chamber orchestra. The first integral performance at the 37th Osor Musical evenings was recorded by Croatian Radiotelevision and was published as a triple DVD in 2013. First three decades of festival are well documented in a book by Dodi Komanov, \"Arkadija hrvatske glazbe: 30 godina festivala Osorske glazbene večeri\" (Arcady of Croatian music: 30 years of Osor Musical Evenings) published by the festival in 2006.\n\n"}
{"id": "6826145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6826145", "title": "Patras Carnival", "text": "Patras Carnival\n\nThe Patras Carnival, Patrino karnavali is the largest event of its kind in Greece and one of the biggest in Europe. It has more than 180 years of history. The events begin on 17 January and last up to Clean Monday. The carnival of Patras is not a single event but a variety of events that includes balls, parades, hidden treasure hunt and the children's carnival amongst others. It climaxes in the last weekend of Carnival with the Saturday evening parade of carnival groups, the extravagant Sunday parade of floats and groups, and finally the ritual burning of the carnival king at the St. Nikolaos Street pier in the harbour of Patras. Its characteristics are spontaneity, improvisation, inspiration and volunteerism.\n\nThe Patras carnival, as most carnival events in the Mediterranean and the Balkans, is connected with ancient pagan rituals, such as those to honour Dionysus. According to these traditions, in the heart of the winter the faithful invoke the deity with special feasts and he is reborn in order to bring spring once again. \nHowever most people agree that the starting event of the Patras Carnival in its modern-day form was a ball given in the residence of the merchant Moretis in 1829. French troops of general Maison stationed in the city after its liberation from the Turks were a major influence on the carnival bringing their own culture and traditions to the festivities. During the 19th century new arrivals from the newly joined heptanese, the islands in the Ionian sea that became part of Greece in 1864, were to also dramatically influence the nature of the festivities with tremendous vitality, creativity and a sense of fun that were part of their vibrant regional culture and music. Later on, and as a consequence of the prosperity of the city at the end of the 19th century, the carnival festivities take on a more regular nature. The geographical location of the town and the ever-increasing dominance of the port ensured a constant communication with Italy and the rest of Western Europe. Their grand carnivals and the Venetian carnival in particular were especially influential in shaping the festivities, giving the carnival to this day its western characteristics. \nThe first carnival floats appeared in the 1870s. At that time the floats were exclusively the creations of individuals. Only later did the Municipality of Patras undertake to construct a large number of them. \nIn 1872, with contributions from the town's wealthy raisin merchants, the celebrated Apollon Theatre was built by Ernst Ziller in George square. Carnival dances were hosted there and they continue to be hosted to this day. George square is the central location in carnival celebrations and the Apollon theatre serves as a backdrop to most major carnival events that take part in the square making it emblematic not only of the carnival but of the town itself. \nIn 1880 on Saint Anthony's day the first \"mpoules\" appeared. These were groups who were disguised and anonymously poked fun at friends and other people in the neighbourhood. This custom has now disappeared. \nAs the historian of the Patras Carnival Nikos Politis points out, beautiful carnivals were organized during the belle époque in the years 1900, 1907, 1909 with attendance for the first time of individuals from all social classes and origins. This period also gave birth to the egg-war custom. Wax eggs were made stuffed with confetti using specially designed machines which the carnivalists threw from balconies. Although this custom has disappeared, it is considered to be the precursor of the chocolate war which still persists. Bars of chocolates are thrown by revellers on floats or amongst groups at parties.\n\nThe developments of the following decade were not favourable for the carnival; the continuous wars and conflicts (Balkan wars, World War I, Asia Minor campaign) sent the men to the front and brought economic crisis and desolation to the city. In the first postwar years the situation did not improve perceptibly. Only some scattered events testify the arrival of the carnival. Obvious exception constitutes the imposing and amazing carnivals of the years 1938 and 1939. Nevertheless, World War II and the consecutive Greek Civil War bring an obligatory interruption. In the beginning of the 1950s the first hesitant thoughts for a resurgence of the carnival are expressed. The most pessimistic predict a failure: \"nothing will be as before\". However, the carnival is indeed reborn. The pioneer musical groups \"Orpheus\" and \"Patraiki' Mantolinata\", a mandolin ensemble, lead the effort. The Patras Carnival returns into the lives of the citizens of Patras but also all Greeks, particularly those that could afford to travel to Patras (mainly affluent Athenians) in order to participate in the carnival and to attend the famous Bourboulia balls. In the same period the Greek cinema showed scenes of the carnival in its films. Other historic scenes can be seen in prewar films. However, in the 1950s, the carnival came under attack as fanatic Christian and other misinformed moral organisations appear in Patras from other regions of Greece during the carnival in order to denounce orgies, moral corruption and a state of \"Sodom and Gomorrah\", but they are prevented from creating trouble by the police. These completely unfounded accusations are met with indifference or annoyance by the citizens of Patras and visitors of the carnival. It is characteristic that the local church does not sympathise with the troublemakers since it knows that the carnival is a completely innocent recreational event. Yet, in the same period there were cases of censorship which was imposed on certain carnival creations which had upset the establishment with their satirical humour. In 1964 the year of king Paul's death the Carnival was once again cancelled.\n\nUnder no circumstances could these events shade the magnificence of the carnival which had already acquired Pan-Hellenic recognition and attracted the attention of certain international media. In 1966 the carnival was reorganized. The journalist Nikos Mastorakis introduces the Hidden Treasure Hunt, a game in which 94 citizens of Patras and visitors take part with their cars to find a list of sometimes obscure objects. The first prize was won by a team led by a friend of the carnival from Thessalonica; his name was Alkis Steas and he presented the game starting from the following year. Thus, the late Steas became for decades the legendary presenter of the carnival, which was broadcast by ERT and was watched by all Greek TV viewers. The presenter's expressions such as \"the Carnival city of Greece\", when he referred to Patras and \"be happy\" and \"keep dancing!\" when he referred to the carnival groups, remain historical. In 1974 the modern phase of the carnival begins as the revellers are convinced to abandon their cars and parade on foot in the streets (until then only floats paraded). Since then each year the spectacle grew and the carnival has become enormous with thousands of revellers taking part in the parade as hundreds of thousands of visitors flock to Patras to witness the proceedings.\n\nThe soul of the carnival are the tens of thousands of carnivalists, from Patras, visitors and friends of the Patras Carnival, people of every age group who participate spontaneously in the carnival events; the official events and the hundreds of unofficial events such as carnival balls, masqued balls and parties at home, in neighbourhoods, clubs, cafes and restaurants. In recent decades a large part of the organisation is consistently undertaken by the Municipality of Patras through the Municipal Organisation for Cultural Development of Patras which supervises the carnival workshop, a unique space in Greece in which the giant floats of the carnival King and his entourage are built along with other structures that decorate the town during the duration of the carnival season. The carnival receives funding from the Ministry of Culture and other institutions. The official support however has come to reinforce a time honoured tradition and does not create something from scratch as with carnival events in other Greek municipalities.\n\nIrrespective of when the Triodion falls, the three-week period preceding the first Sunday of Lent, it is customary for the Carnival of Patras to start on the day of St. Anthony (17 January). A town crier appears on the streets of Patras; in recent years this has been a specially constructed float with music. The crier announces the opening with a satirical message and invites the town's residents to assemble that evening for the opening ceremony in George square. During a spectacular celebration with elements of surprise, as the programme is kept secret till the last moment, the start of the Patras Carnival is declared by the town's mayor from the first floor balcony of the Apollon theatre. The programme usually includes pantomimes and patters, dances, music and fireworks.\n\nA spectacular take on the traditional baby rally which was first organised in 1968 by the Naturalist Association of Patras, the Children's Carnival is an event that is exclusive to the Patras carnival. It culminates with the major parade that takes place the week before the grand parade. On that day thousands of young carnivalists from Patras, Western Greece and beyond, from the age of zero upwards, parade through the streets of Patras with their mums and dads, teachers and supervisors dressed in bright costumes, in groups created by their nurseries, kindergartens, music schools, dance schools and others. Cheerleaders and young musicians in the municipality band accompany them. Over the years the Children's Carnival has gained its own momentum successfully competing with that of the grown ups. Music has been composed to accompany it, special competitions and games are organised and the municipality's carnival workshop creates special floats inspired by popular fairy tales. In the Ipsilon Alonion square a 'carnival town' is created. Giant and colourful carnival structures allow the children to play. Over 5000 children participate in a festival involving numerous game events and creative activities whose objective is to introduce the younger generation to the Carnival and to encourage their abilities in artistic expression related to aesthetic or satirical masquerading.\n\nThe groups that participate in the carnival are composed of either permanent carnival companions, groups of friends, colleagues or neighbours. They have a name as a group and a theme for their costumes. Depending on their carnival term, member's education, and the time they have available they choose whether they will participate in the treasure hunt games or the parades or both. These games comprise questions from subjects such as history, philosophy, mathematics, or from practical knowledge, exercises in navigation through hidden clues spread throughout the town, artistic competitions in painting, pantomimes, theatrical highlights or whatever else the organisers of the game can think of. The group's performance in various phases of the game is scored and so the big winner emerges. Several groups have offices and clubs for the duration of the carnival period and many organise parties and dances or public events on streets and in squares. Some participate in the parade with their own carnival float constructed to match the masquerade theme of the group. The number of participants in a group varies between 50 and 300 people, sometimes more.\n\nThis is also called the \"Nihterini Podarati\" [Night Parade on foot]. In earlier years, only the Treasure Hunt groups could participate without their floats. However, the last few years every group is free to join. Night, bright lights, an overwhelming stream of people, colors and high spirits combine to create a spectacular scene.\n\nThis is the climax of the Patras Carnival. The parade begins around 2pm on the Sunday before Clean Monday with numerous satirical floats constructed by the municipality followed by an endless stream of groups, each one with an individual theme around which their costumes are designed. Despite the constant flow, due to the number of people participating which in recent years has reached between 35 and 40 thousand, the parade takes several hours to complete. It cuts through the town and is watched by thousands on the streets, on balconies, in the stands and throughout Greece in a televised coverage.\n\nAn extension of the traditional festivities based around the burning of the float of the Carnival King, with concerts, dances, a farewell to the carnival past, announcements about the carnival to come and countless fireworks. It takes place at the port on Sunday night and is also broadcast on TV.\n"}
{"id": "21416273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21416273", "title": "Public health problems in the Aral Sea region", "text": "Public health problems in the Aral Sea region\n\nAfter irrigation projects diverted water from the Aral Sea it began to dry up and left behind salts, other minerals and toxins in the soil. These not only contaminated the soil but also were picked up by winds and storms, and traveled to other areas, including over crop lands. This has led to increased health problems like respiratory diseases and cancers, among others. The change in the size of the Aral has also affected the local climate and resulted in increased occurrence and worsening of storms.\n\nThere is no doubt that the shrinking of the Aral Sea has resulted in health problems for the local community. However, there is debate as to what extent of these problems can be sourced to this environmental situation. The full effects could take a generation to fully materialize and patterns of health problems to show up. \nSome of the main reasons why the Aral sea area suffered greatly were from \"over irrigation and water mismanagement.\" Environmental impacts resulting from the changes in the Aral Sea region that could affect human health are \"the salinization of the water table, pesticides in the environment and food chain, dust storms and air quality.\"\n\nIn the Uzbek region years of monoculture agriculture of cotton fields left soils depleted of naturally occurring minerals and nutrients. This eventually led to an increased use of pesticides and fertilizers to try and counter these new soil deficiencies. However, these increased chemicals found their way into the soils, water, and finally the Aral sea. These types of agricultural activities have also \"resulted in widespread soil erosion, chemical pollution, and poor water quality and quantity.\" \n\nAs the sea dries up the contaminants become exposed on the surface and enter into the soil while also being blown into the air. These environmental impacts have had wide-ranging effects on health of local residents. Increases in the occurrence of many diseases and conditions have been noted and linked to the shrinking of the Aral. Facing the highest risk from exposure to contaminants and toxins are infants and children. This has contributed to an increasing infant mortality rate in the area. According to Newbold the infant mortality rate is defined as \"the number of deaths of infants younger than one year of age per one thousand births.\" \n\nInfant mortality rates have been increasing in this region since the 1970s, while elsewhere in the world they have generally been going down. For residents of the Aral sea region living there has led to high \"exposure to industrial pollutants such as polychlorinated biphenyl (PCB) compounds and heavy metals but also to pesticides.\" This phenomenon leading to increased infant mortality rates has been reported as high as 70 in Kazakhstan as of 1993. Toxins can come from all sources including breathing them in from the air, drinking water, and food. However, a young baby does not have much choice about what to eat or drink. It has been found that these contaminants can be passed down through breast feeding and \"in a number of areas the physicians recommend against breast feeding babies, as the nursing mothers milk is toxic.\" \n\nAs seen in Table 1, other surrounding countries and areas have also experienced an increase in infant mortality rates. Although there are many other factors that contribute to infant mortality rates, the environmental state in the area has a definite influence on increasing rates. When compared with developed countries these rates can illustrate differences in health care and access to health care between the areas.\n\nIn Turkmenistan alone, 50% of all reported illnesses in children are related to respiratory system difficulties. The effects of this situation are far reaching and affect people in a wide range of ailments. Following is a list of health problems contributing to high infant mortality, death, and lower standard of living in the Aral Sea area:\n\n\nA large concern of remediation of the area is the reduction of the blowing salt and minerals from the exposed sea bed. Some solutions include constructing dikes to control water flows and restricting the water amounts diverted for irrigation. However, the health effects have already been felt and will continue to be present for a long time even if the situation is turned around in the very near future.\n"}
{"id": "37789387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37789387", "title": "Sheriff (Slovenia)", "text": "Sheriff (Slovenia)\n\nIn principle, the term Sheriff () was coined by the Slovenian media in reference to local politicians, usually mayors, who are faced with accusations of political corruption, cronyism or clientelism and are faced or charged with criminal investigations and indictments. These politicians are usually successful in eluding the law and in some cases manage to stay in office even after being found guilty by the court of law.\n\nThe \"Three big Sheriffs\" refers to mayors:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17686310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17686310", "title": "Sovereign default", "text": "Sovereign default\n\nA sovereign default () is the failure or refusal of the government of a sovereign state to pay back its debt in full. Cessation of due payments (or receivables) may either be accompanied by formal declaration (repudiation) of a government not to pay (or only partially pay) its debts, or it may be unannounced. A credit rating agency will take into account in its gradings capital, interest, extraneous and procedural defaults, failures to abide by the terms of bonds or other debt instruments. Countries have at times escaped the real burden of some of their debt through inflation. This is not \"default\" in the usual sense because the debt is honored, albeit with currency of lesser real value. Sometimes governments devalue their currency. This can be done by printing more money to apply toward their own debts, or by ending or altering the convertibility of their currencies into precious metals or foreign currency at fixed rates. Harder to quantify than an interest or capital default, this often is defined as an extraneous or procedural default (breach) of terms of the contracts or other instruments.\n\nIf potential lenders or bond purchasers begin to suspect that a government may fail to pay back its debt, they may demand a high interest rate in compensation for the risk of default. A dramatic rise in the interest rate faced by a government due to fear that it will fail to honor its debt is sometimes called a sovereign debt crisis. Governments may be especially vulnerable to a sovereign debt crisis when they rely on financing through short-term bonds, since this creates a situation of maturity mismatch between their short-term bond financing and the long-term asset value of their tax base.\n\nThey may also be vulnerable to a sovereign debt crisis due to currency mismatch: if few bonds in their own currency are accepted abroad, and so the country issues mainly foreign-denominated bonds, decrease in the value of their own currency can make it prohibitively expensive to pay back their foreign-denominated bonds (see original sin).\n\nSince a sovereign government, by definition, controls its own affairs, it cannot be obliged to pay back its debt. Nonetheless, governments may face severe pressure from lending countries. In a few extreme cases, a major creditor nation, before the establishment of the UN Charter Article 2 (4) prohibiting use of force by states, made threats of war or waged war against a debtor nation for failing to pay back debt to seize assets to enforce its creditor's rights. For example, Britain invaded Egypt in 1882. Other examples include the United States' \"gunboat diplomacy\" in Venezuela in the mid-1890s and the United States occupation of Haiti beginning in 1915.\n\nToday a government which defaults may be widely excluded from further credit, some of its overseas assets may be seized; and it may face political pressure from its own domestic bondholders to pay back its debt. Therefore, governments rarely default on the entire value of their debt. Instead, they often enter into negotiations with their bondholders to agree on a delay (debt restructuring) or partial reduction of their debt (a 'haircut or write-off').\n\nSome economists have argued that, in the case of acute insolvency crises, it can be advisable for regulators and supranational lenders to preemptively engineer the orderly restructuring of a nation’s public debt- also called \"orderly default\" or \"controlled default\". In the case of Greece, these experts generally believe that a delay in organising an orderly default would hurt the rest of Europe even more.\n\nThe International Monetary Fund often lends for sovereign debt restructuring. To ensure that funds will be available to pay the remaining part of the sovereign debt, it has made such loans conditional on acts such as reducing corruption, imposing austerity measures such as reducing non-profitable public sector services, raising the tax take (revenue) or more rarely suggesting other forms of revenue raising such as nationalization of inept or corrupt but lucrative economic sectors. A recent example is the Greek bailout agreement of May 2010.\n\nAccording to financial historian Edward Chancellor, past instances of sovereign default have tended to occur under some or all of the following circumstances:\n\nA significant factor in sovereign default is the presence of significant debts owed to foreign investors such as banks who are unable to obtain timely payment via political support from governments, supranational courts or negotiation; the enforcement of creditors' rights against sovereign states is frequently difficult. Such willful defaults (the equivalent of strategic bankruptcy by a company or strategic default by a mortgager, except without the possibility of the exercise of normal creditors' rights such as asset seizure and sale) can be considered a variety of sovereign theft; this is similar to expropriation (including inadequate repayment for the exercise of eminent domain). Some also believe that sovereign default is a dark side of globalization and capitalism.\n\nIf a state, for economic reasons, defaults on its treasury obligations, or is no longer able or willing to handle its debt, liabilities, or to pay the interest on this debt, it faces sovereign default. To declare insolvency, it is sufficient if the state is only able (or willing) to pay part of its due interest or to clear off only part of the debt.\n\nReasons for this include:\n\nSovereign default caused by insolvency historically has always appeared at the end of long years or decades of budget emergency (overspending), in which the state has spent more money than it received. This budget balance/margin was covered through new indebtedness with national and foreign citizens, banks and states.\n\nThe literature proposes an important distinction between \"illiquidity\" and \"insolvency\". If a country is temporarily unable to meet pending interest or principle payments because it can not liquify sufficient assets, it is \"in default because of illiquidity\". In this concept the default can be solved as soon as the assets which are \"only temporarily illiquid\" become \"liquid\" (again), which makes illiquidity a temporary state - in contrast to insolvency. The weakness of this concept is that is practically impossible to prove that an asset is only temporarily illiquid.\n\nWhile normally the change of government does not change the responsibility of the state to handle treasury obligations created by earlier governments, nevertheless it can be observed that in revolutionary situations and after a regime change the new government may question the legitimacy of the earlier one, and thus default on those treasury obligations considered odious debt.\n\nImportant examples are:\n\nWith the decline of a state, its obligations are turned over to one or several successor states.\n\nLost wars significantly accelerate sovereign default. Nevertheless, especially after World War II the government debt has increased significantly in many countries even during long lasting times of peace. While in the beginning debt was quite small, due to compound interest and continued overspending it has increased substantially.\n\nThere are two different theories as to why sovereign countries repay their debt.\n\nThe reputation approach stipulates that countries value the access to international capital markets because it allows them to smooth consumption in the face of volatile output and/or fluctuating investment opportunities. This approach assumes no outside factors such as legal or military action because the debtor is a sovereign country. Debtor countries with poor reputations will lack access to these capital markets.\n\nThe punishment approach stipulates that the debtor will be punished in some form, whether it be by legal action and/or military force. The creditor will use legal and/or military threats to see their investment returned. The punishment may prevent debtors from being able to borrow in their own currency.\n\nCreditors of the state as well the economy and the citizens of the state are affected by the sovereign default.\n\nThe immediate cost to creditors is the loss of principal and interest owed on their loans to the defaulting country.\n\nIn this case very often there are international negotiations which end in a partial debt cancellation (London Agreement on German External Debts 1953) or debt restructuring (e.g. Brady Bonds in the 1980s). This kind of agreement assures the partial repayment when a renunciation / surrender of a big part of the debt is accepted by the creditor. In the case of the Argentine economic crisis (1999–2002) some creditors elected to accept the renunciation (loss, or \"haircut\") of up to 75% of the outstanding debts, while others ( \"holdouts\") elected instead to await a change of government (2015) for offers of better compensation.\n\nFor the purpose of debts regulation debts can be distinguished by nationality of creditor (national or international), or by the currency of the debts (own currency or foreign currency) as well as whether the foreign creditors are private or state owned. States are frequently more willing to cancel debts owed to foreign private creditors, unless those creditors have means of retaliation against the state.\n\nWhen a state defaults on a debt, the state disposes of (or ignores, depending on the viewpoint) its financial obligations/debts towards certain creditors. The immediate effect for the state is a reduction in its total debt and a reduction in payments on the interest of that debt. On the other hand, a default can damage the reputation of the state among creditors, which can restrict the ability of the state to obtain credit from the capital market. In some cases foreign lenders may attempt to undermine the monetary sovereignty of the debtor state or even declare war (see above).\n\nIf the individual citizen or corporate citizen is a creditor of the state (e.g. government bonds), then a default by the state can mean a devaluation of their monetary wealth.\n\nIn addition, the following scenarios can occur in a debtor state from a sovereign default:\n\nCitizens of a debtor state might feel the impact indirectly through high unemployment and the decrease of state services and benefits. However, a monetarily sovereign state can take steps to minimize negative consequences, rebalance the economy and foster social/economic progress, for example Brazil's Plano Real.\n\nWith the reputation of the Big Three – Standard & Poor's, Moody's and Fitch Group – coming under fire since the 2008 financial crisis, many have questioned their ratings methods. Marc Joffe, a former Senior Director at Moody's and now Principal Consultant at Public Sector Credit Solutions (PSCS), has recently argued that economists and other academic social scientists, via logit and probit econometric models, are better equipped than ratings agencies to assess the default risk of sovereigns and municipalities. To support better ratings methods, PSCS (in partnership with Wikirating) maintains a comprehensive public database of sovereign defaults, revenues, expenditures, debt levels, and debt service costs. PSCS has also developed the Public Sector Credit Framework, an open source budget simulation model that helps analysts assess default probabilities.\n\nA failure of a nation to meet bond repayments has been seen on many occasions. Philip II of Spain defaulted on debt four times – in 1557, 1560, 1575 and 1596 – becoming the first nation in history to declare sovereign default due to rising military costs and the declining value of gold, as it had become increasingly dependent on the revenues flowing in from its mercantile empire in the Americas. This sovereign default threw the German banking houses into chaos and ended the reign of the Fuggers as Spanish financiers. Genoese bankers provided the unwieldy Habsburg system with fluid credit and a dependably regular income. In return the less dependable shipments of American silver were rapidly transferred from Seville to Genoa, to provide capital for further military ventures.\n\nIn the 1820s, several Latin American countries which had recently entered the bond market in London defaulted. These same countries frequently defaulted during the nineteenth century, but the situation was typically rapidly resolved with a renegotiation of loans, including the writing off of some debts.\n\nA failure to meet payments became common again in the late 1920s and 1930s; as protectionism by wealthy nations rose and international trade fell especially after the banking crisis of 1929, countries possessing debts denominated in other currencies found it increasingly difficult to meet terms agreed under more favourable economic conditions. For example, in 1932, Chile's scheduled repayments exceeded the nation's total exports (or, at least, its exports under current pricing; whether reductions in prices – forced sales – would have enabled fulfilling creditors' rights is unknown).\n\nMore recently Greece became the first developed country to default to the International Monetary Fund. In June 2015 Greece defaulted on a $1.7 billion payment to the IMF.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43050588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43050588", "title": "Spillover of the Syrian Civil War", "text": "Spillover of the Syrian Civil War\n\nThe spillover of the Syrian Civil War is the impact of the Syrian Civil War in the Arab world. Since the first protests during the Arab Spring, the increasingly violent Syrian Civil War has been both a proxy war for the major Middle Eastern powers, Turkey and Iran, and a potential launching point for a wider regional war. Fears of the latter were realized when the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL), a Salafi Jihadist militant group and alleged former al-Qaeda affiliate, established itself in Syria in 2013, and later combined with the Iraqi Civil War into a single conflict the following year. The spillover of the Syrian Civil War is often dubbed as the Arab Winter.\n\nFor much of 2012, the Iraqi government had turned a blind eye to the Sunni and Salafist militias crossing the border into Syria. This toleration ended when Salafist militias connected to al-Qaeda ambushed a convoy filled with unarmed Syrian soldiers at Akashat on the Syrian side of the border. This led to greater fighting throughout the country, Operation al-Shabah in May 2013 in which the Iraqi Army failed to wipe these militias out and the consolidation of several of them with ISIL. Anbar Province became a battle zone and an airstrike in April 2014 was of little use, because in June 2014 ISIL launched an offensive in northern Iraq, taking large swaths of the country and threatening Baghdad itself. In response, Iran reportedly deployed its Quds force in Iraq, thus turning the conflict into a full-scale war.\n\nThe Akashat ambush was a well planned assault against a Syrian Army convoy defended by Iraqi soldiers that took place on 4 March 2013, as the group was travelling in the province of Anbar, next to the border with Syria. The Islamic State of Iraq claimed responsibility for the ambush on 11 March. 51 Syrian soldiers were killed in the clashes.<br> Another 9 Iraqi soldiers were killed as well from insurgent fire. The attackers carried unknown casualties.\n\nIn March 2013, a source from Sinjar hospital said that Free Syrian Army\nattacked Iraqi soldiers after entering Iraqi territories.\n\nSince January 2014, The Islamic State has mutated and grown into a massive pseudo country which has taken over much of Iraq and Syria and erased the border between the two countries in a new, multinational war.\n\nIn June 2016, the New Syrian Army, backed by the United States, overtook ISIL forces in the border town of al-Bukamal. The city is essential to a key route linking eastern Syria to Iraq. However, in the hours following ISIL launched a counteroffensive and retook al-Bukamal, with the New Syrian Army suffering significant casualties.\n\nAs of May 10, 2017, ISIL has maintained control over al-Bukamal and the key route linking Syria and Iraq. ISIL has additionally conducted attacks near the Waled-Tanif Border Crossing to the south, and west of Mosul in the north. The significant territorial control ISIL maintains surrounding al-Bukamal allows for relatively easy passage between the two nations.\n\nThe Syrian Civil War has led to incidents of sectarian violence in northern Lebanon between supporters and opponents of the Syrian government, and armed clashes between Sunnis and Alawites in Tripoli. Fighting between rebels and government forces has spilled into Lebanon on several occasions. The Syrian Air Force has conducted air strikes on targets in Lebanon, while rebels have launched rockets on Hezbollah targets. Fighting between supporters of the Sunni sheikh Ahmed Al-Assir, who is against Hezbollah's involvement in Syria, and the Lebanese army has killed at least 15 of its soldiers.\n\nAt the beginning of summer 2012, two Hezbollah fighters were killed in a clash with Syrian rebels who were on Lebanese territory. On 17 September, Syrian Ground-attack aircraft fired three missiles over the border into Lebanese territory near Arsal. It was suggested that the jets were chasing rebels in the vicinity. The attack prompted Lebanese president Michel Sleiman to launch an investigation, whilst not publicly blaming Syria for the incident.\n\nOn 22 September 2012, a group of armed members of the Free Syrian Army attacked a border post near Arsal. This was reported to be the second incursion within a week. The group were chased off into the hills by the Lebanese Army, who detained and later released some rebels due to pressure from dignified locals. Michel Sleiman praised the actions taken by the military as maintaining Lebanon's position being “neutral from the conflicts of others\". He called on border residents to “stand beside their army and assist its members.” Syria has repeatedly called for an intensified crackdown on rebels that it claims are hiding in Lebanese border towns.\n\nOn 11 October 2012, four shells fired by the Syrian military hit Masharih al-Qaa, where previous shelling incidents have caused fatalities. Lebanon's position of ignoring the attacks and dissociating itself from the conflict remained unchanged. In October 2012 Hassan Nasrallah denied Hezbollah members were fighting alongside the Syrian army, but that Lebanese in Syria were only protecting Lebanese inhabited villages from the Free Syrian Army.\n\nIn August 2014, the Syrian air force bombed the Lebanese side of the border. In December of that year, they used barrel bombs on suspected rebel installations northwest of Arsal.\n\nStarting in June 2014, Hezbollah began battling with Islamists along the Lebanese border, who had crossed into Lebanon several times and threatened to throw the country into full-scale war.\n\nFrom 2–5 August 2014, the Lebanese Army clashed with Syrian gunmen in the town of Arsal, which left over a hundred soldiers on both sides dead.\n\nOn 21 August 2014, the al-Nusra Front invaded Lebanon near Arsal and the Bekaa Valley town of Al-Fakiha. Following a battle between them and Hezbollah, seven Hezbollah fighters and 32 Syrian terrorists died in clashes around the Syrian village of Nahleh, just over the border from Arsal.\n\nDozens of hostages were taken back to Syria during the above-mentioned battle of Arsal. After fruitless negotiations, the Lebanese cabinet voted to authorize the army to invade Syria to free them on 4 September 2014, something that they have yet to do. There was another attempted invasion of Lebanon by a joint ISIL-Nusra force in early October, which was beaten back by Hezbullah, and in January 2015.\n\nIn December 2015, after over a year and a half in captivity, Lebanese troops held prisoner by Al Nusra were exchanged for prisoners held in Lebanon.\n\nIn June 2015, the Hezbollah claimed that it was in the midst of a major battle with ISIL, which it claimed had invaded Lebanon and seized territory. On 21 July 2017 Hezbollah along with the Syrian Army declared an offensive on the seized territories by insurgents. On 22 July 2017 Hezbollah officials claimed capturing several points of the re-seized territories.\n\nWith a thousand-mile border with Syria and Iraq, there have been a number of incidents involving this nation with various factions in the conflicts south of the border.\n\nOpenly supporting the overthrow of Bashar al-Assad Turkey permitted the establishment of a \"jihadist highway\" where rebels of all stripes, including ISIL, were permitted to cross both supplies and personnel South of the border. There were various incidents including the shooting down of a Turkish Air Force jet by Syria which killed the 2 pilots and also the shooting down of a Syrian Air Force jet by Turkey, and a February 2015 raid by the Turkish army to evacuate a tiny exclave in Syria.\n\nTurkey had been allegedly supporting ISIL throughout its many incarnations as a \"lesser evil\" against the Assad government. This to some extent began to change with the 2013 Reyhanlı bombings and a retaliatory airstrike in January 2014. ISIL shook this off and began its conquest of northern Iraq, followed by consolidation of territories in Northern Syria. In the summer of 2014 it began taking over the border area with Turkey, leading to hundreds of thousands of refugees coming north along the border, riots, the use of teargas, rubber bullets, and live ammunition, as well the end of the truce with the PKK.\n\nA vote to authorize military action was passed by the Turkish parliament on 2 October 2014. However, it had no follow-through and further rioting ensued through much of Turkey's cities as the government demanded more and more conditions to join in the war. The riots intensified and several dozen protesters have been killed.\n\nThe relationship between ISIL and Turkey deteriorated during the spring and summer of 2015, leading to sniping at the border and airstrikes by the Turks.\n\nOn 22 February 2015, the Turkish army invaded Syria via Kobani and drove to the Süleyman Shah Tomb, which was dismantled and brought back to Turkey. The 40 guards, who were due to return home months before, were also rescued. About 100 military vehicles, including 39 tanks, were involved along with 572 military personnel, one of which was killed in an accident.\n\nThirty to thirty-six Turkish soldiers were stationed there to guard the tomb. An attack on the tomb, considered Turkish territory under a 1921 Franco-Turkish agreement, was under threat earlier in the year, prompting the government to declare that it would retaliate against any such attack, and would serve as a casus belli.\n\nThe Syrian government said the raid was an act of \"flagrant aggression\" and that it would hold Ankara responsible for its repercussions.\n\nOn 24 November 2015, a Russian warplane was shot down in the Syrian-Turkey border area. Turkey claims the plane violated Turkish airspace, a claim Russia denies. Early reports from multiple Russian news agencies indicated that the plane had been downed by a ground-based strike from Syrian rebels, but Russian officials later confirmed the Turkish reports that the plane had been downed by Turkish fighter jets. According to Turkish officials, the Russian jet, an SU-24, was shot down by two Turkish F-16 jets after multiple requests (10 requests in a five-minute span) for the Russian jet to change its course. Turkey maintains that the Russian jet violated its airspace, flying over Turkish territory despite warnings to change course, while Russia states that its jet never entered Turkish airspace and was over Syria the whole time. Turkey produced a graphic showing the Russian plane's flight pattern, which appears to show it crossing the southern tip of Hatay Province before being shot down and crashing near Turkmen Mountain near the Syria-Turkey border.\n\nTurkey had previously warned Russia about violations to Turkish airspace, and had also warned them off strikes against civilian Syrian Turkmen living along the Turkish border. Russia has steadfastly maintained \"throughout its flight, the aircraft remained exclusively above Syrian territory.\" In response, Russian president Vladimir Putin stated that the attack was \"a stab in the back by the accomplices of terrorists.\"\n\nThe 2015 conflict between Turkey and the PKK broke out following two year-long peace negotiations, which began in late 2012, but failed to progress in light of the growing tensions on border with Syria in late 2014, when the Siege of Kobani created an unprecedented wave of Kurdish refugees into Turkey. Some of the Kurds accused Turkey of assisting the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) during the crisis, resulting in widespread Kurdish riots in Turkey involving dozens of fatalities. The tensions further escalated in summer 2015 with the 20 July bombing in Suruç, allegedly executed by an ISIL-affiliated Turkish group against Kurdish supporters. On 21 July, the PKK killed a Turkish soldier and wounded 2 more in Adıyaman. Some PKK supporters then claimed responsibility for the 23 July killing of two Turkish police officers in Ceylanpinar, describing it as a retaliation.\n\nThere have been several incidents on the 375 km long border between Syria and Jordan. Jordan hosts nearly 600,000 registered Syrian refugees—although Jordanian officials say the total number is 1.4 million.\n\nHeavy shelling aimed at Daraa in Syria has accidentally hit the Jordanian side of the border from time to time, usually causing only light or no damage. However, there have been occurrences where armed men have been killed or injured in engagements with Jordanian border patrols soldiers.\n\nIn April 2014, the Jordanian Air Force launched an airstrike on soldiers trying to illegally cross the border from Syria. Since then, attempted militant infiltration into Jordan has become commonplace. Some of this was due to the return of Jordanian citizens who, as Jihadists, went to fight in Syria for a while and decided to go home for various reasons. According to reports, there are over 2000 Jordanian Jihadis fighting in Syria. Over a hundred have been arrested and charged for crossing the border to fight, which is illegal in Jordan.\n\nSince October 2014, Jordan has been an active part of the anti-ISIS coalition, contributing to the American-led campaign of airstrikes.\n\nTwo incidents occurred in January 2016. On 23 January Jordanian armed forces spokesman stated that a total of 36 armed men tried to infiltrate the border and an engagement with Jordanian border patrol left 12 dead while the rest retreated back into Syria. They were found to have 2,000,000 drug pills. The spokesperson also stated that \"Jordan will not tolerate any infiltration attempt and will strike with an iron fist to whoever tries to disrupt Jordanian national security\".\n\nOn 25 January, two armed men tried to infiltrate the borders and were killed. They were found to have 2600 palm-sized bags of cannabis and 2.4 million Captagon pills.\n\nOn 25 September 2012, several mortar shells landed in the Israeli-occupied Golan Heights, landing in an open area adjacent to the border fence. Overall, throughout October and early November, several Syrian mortar and light artillery shells hit the Golan Heights. One mortar round may have been responsible for a brushfire that erupted in the area. On 3 November, three Syrian tanks entered the demilitarized zone in the central Golan Heights as a number of mortar shells were fired into the area. On 5 November, an Israeli army jeep was damaged by Syrian army gunfire as it patrolled the border. On 11 November, after a Syrian 120mm mortar round hit the eastern Golan Heights, the Israeli army responded by firing an electro-optic anti-tank missile in the direction of a Syrian mortar crew, but they deliberately missed them, intending it as a warning shot. On 12 November, another Syrian mortar shell struck the Golan Heights, and Israeli tanks deployed along the border responded by targeting two Syrian mortar launchers. A direct hit was confirmed. A shell fired from Syria, where insurgents and government troops are locked in fierce fighting, exploded in the Israeli-occupied part of the Golan Heights plateau on Sunday, 14 July 2013.\n\nOn 22 and 23 June 2015 two ambulances transporting wounded Syrian rebels were attacked by Druze protesters in the Golan Heights. One of the injured persons was killed in the incident. The attacks followed an interview with a rebel who had been treated in Israel and promised to come back to Syria to fight against the Druze minority.\n\nOn 10 February 2018, an Iranian drone was reported to have entered Israeli airspace, which was shot down by the Israeli Air Force. In retaliation, the IAF struck Iranian targets inside Syria. During the attack on the Iranian targets, Syrian anti-air defense systems shot down an Israeli F-16 fighter jet. 2 hours after the downing of the jet, Israel began attacking additional targets inside Syria.\n\nThe takeover of the city of Derna in Cyrenaica, Libya by the self-declared Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) took place in late 2014. In November 2014, Wilayat Darnah (the province of Darnah) or Wilayat Barqah (Province of Eastern Libya) was declared an integral part the so-called \"Islamic State\". ISIL has now taken complete control of the eastern Libyan coastal city with a population of 100,000.\n\nISIL in Libya posted a video online on 15 February 2015 depicting the killing of 21 Egyptian Copts. The video bore similarities to previous videos showing the \"execution\" of Western and Japanese hostages, including the orange jumpsuits worn by the victims and the method of killing by decapitation. Egypt responded to the video by launching airstrikes against targets in Derna.\n\nOn 26 June 2015, ISIL militants blew up a Shiite mosque in Kuwait City killing dozens and injuring hundreds.\n\nA campaign of Islamist attacks occurred in France, beginning with the Île-de-France attacks on 7 January 2015, between the French Government and ongoing terrorist acts committed by jihadist terror groups like AQAP and ISIL, or isolated individuals who sympathise with the jihadist movement. Since 2015 and until July 2016, eight Islamic terrorist incidents have occurred in France, including fatal attacks in Île-de-France, Saint-Quentin-Fallavier and Paris. The November 2015 attacks in Paris were motivated by ISIL as a \"retaliation\" for the French role in Syrian Civil War and Iraqi War.\n\nA majority of attacks by Islamic extremists in Bangladesh since October 2015 have been claimed by ISIL. In November 2015, the ISIL magazine Dabiq published an article calling for the \"revival of jihad in Bengal\". Since then, radical Islamic militants have assassinated Bangladeshi secularists, atheists, writers, bloggers, LGBT activists, Sufi and liberal Muslims, Hindu and Buddhist priests and Christian missionaries, as well as foreign expatriates from Europe and East Asia. On 1 July 2016, six gunmen stormed an upmarket restaurant in Bangladesh's capital Dhaka, killed customers of various nationalities and held hostages for nearly 12 hours, before the Bangladesh army ended the siege. ISIL claimed credit for the attack and reportedly released photographs of both the gunmen and victims from inside the restaurant during the hostage crisis. The government of Bangladesh, however, has refuted ISIL claims and denies the group has any presence in the country. It has instead blamed local terrorist outfits, particularly the Jamaat-ul-Mujahideen Bangladesh (JMB) and the Ansarullah Bangla Team, both of which have been linked to the country's far-right Islamist opposition parties.\n\n"}
{"id": "5866630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5866630", "title": "The Industry Standard", "text": "The Industry Standard\n\nThe Industry Standard is a U.S. news web site dedicated to technology business news, part of InfoWorld, a news website covering technology in general. It is a revival of a weekly magazine based in San Francisco which was published between 1998 and 2001.\n\n\"The Industry Standard\" called itself \"the newsmagazine of the Internet economy\", and it specialized in areas where business and the Internet overlapped. Like \"Wired\", \"Red Herring\", and (later) \"Business 2.0\", it was part of a breed of late 1990s publications that filled a gap in technology coverage left by mainstream media at the time.\n\nThe magazine, which was owned by the technology publishing company IDG, was in many ways the brainchild of John Battelle, who had been a journalist at \"Wired\" both in the United States and the United Kingdom. Jonathan Weber was its editor-in-chief. The magazine also ran a web site, thestandard.com.\n\nBeginning in 1999, \"The Standard\" began selling a large number of advertising pages in the magazine, and began to be referred to as \"the bible\" of the Internet economy. In 2000, it sold more ad pages than any magazine in America, and launched that year a European edition. However, as the dot-com boom failed, sales of the magazine began to shrink, and it went into bankruptcy in August 2001. One of The Standard's writer/editors, James Ledbetter, published a book in 2003 about the magazine's rise and fall; entitled \"Starving to Death on $200 Million: The Short, Absurd Life of The Industry Standard\".\n\nIDG relaunched \"The Industry Standard\" as an online-only publication in 2008. The site featured technology industry news and an interactive section where visitors could make predictions about the future of the tech industry. In 2010, \"The Industry Standard\" became a \"channel\" within InfoWorld, another publication owned by IDG.\n\n"}
{"id": "59214337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59214337", "title": "Timeline of the war in Donbass (April 2018)", "text": "Timeline of the war in Donbass (April 2018)\n\nThis is a timeline of the War in Donbass, from 1 April 2018. The timeline follows an ongoing conflict between Ukraine and anti-government pro-Russian separatists supported by Russian troops in the Donbass region in eastern Ukraine.\n\nAccording to the information provided by the spokesman of the Ukrainian operational headquarters in the morning, pro-Russian troops had opened fire on 11 occasions on Ukrainian positions on the last day of March (including on 10 occasions in Donetsk region and once in Luhansk region); the fire was returned once. The spokesman of the Ministry of Defence confirmed at noon that two Ukrainian servicemen were wounded in the Donbass region on 31 March. Pro-Russian sources at Donetsk city reported two Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire in Staromykhailivka and Trudivske, in the southern area of Donetsk city, using small arms and automatic grenade launchers. According to local officials, the Ukrainian military broke the ceasefire four times within the borders of the self-styled Luhansk People's Republic, when Ukrainian forces employed small arms, rocket launchers, automatic grenade launchers, 82 mm mortars and BMP-1 armoured fighting vehicles.\n\nThe press-centre of the Joint Forces Operation (JFO) reported in the evening that as of 6:00 pm pro-Russian troops had opened fire on positions of Ukrainian troops on 14 occasions, no casualties were reported. In the outskirts of Donetsk city, 82 mm mortar volleys landed in Avdiivka, Butivka mining complex and Pisky. Avdiivka and Butivka also became the target of small arms, heavy machine guns and rocket launchers. Rebel troops employed heavy machine guns to attack the villages of Kamianka, Verkhnyotoretske and Opytne. In the region of Mariupol, Shyrokyne came under 82 mm mortar fire. Ukrainian positions at Pavlopil and Vodiane were fired at with infantry weapons, sniper rifles and grenade launchers. Heavy machine guns targeted Ukrainian troops at Starohnativka, Talakivka and Hnutove. In the northern sector of the demarcation line, Ukrainian redoubts at Luhanske were struck by small arms fire, heavy machine gun fire and 120 mm mortar volleys. There was an 82 mm mortar attack on Troitske, while small arms fire was reported at Stanytsia Luhanska. By the end of the day, rebel forces had committed 38 ceasefire violations. Pro-Russian authorities told the press that the Ukrainian military opened fire at their positions at Vasiilivka and Zaitseve using infantry weapons. Later in the day, pro-Russian outposts at Spartak were struck by small arms fire, machine gun fire, automatically launched grenades and antitank rockets. Vasiilivka was attacked once again, this time with automatic grenade launchers. Separatist troops were harassed with small arms and heavy machine gun fire at Zabicheve. BMP-2 armoured vehicles from Avdiivka, supported by infantry weapons engaged pro-Russian redoubts at Oktyabrskiy Rudnik. Yasynuvata was fired at by small arms, heavy machine guns and automatic grenade launchers. Sources from the self-proclaimed Luhansk People's Republic said that Ukrainian forces hit and destroyed a military ambulance with an antitank guided missile in the surroundings of Nyzhnie Lozove. The vehicle, a URAL truck, was carrying a wounded soldier at the time of the incident. The driver, a paramedic and the wounded soldier were critically injured.\n\nThe spokesman of the Ukrainian operational headquarters reported in the morning that pro-Russian forces had opened fire on 38 occasions on Ukrainian positions the previous day (including on 32 occasions in Donetsk region and on 6 occasions in Luhansk region). The spokesman of the Ministry of Defence reported at noon no casualties in the Donbass region on the first day of April. Pro-Russian officials at Donetsk city reported 16 Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire in six different locations using small arms, snipers, heavy machine guns, automatic grenade launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, armoured personnel carriers and armoured fighting vehicles. Sources from the self-proclaimed Luhansk People's Republic recorded two Ukrainian violations of the truce within the republic's borders. The Ukrainian military used BMP-1 armoured vehicles and antitank guided missiles to engage pro-Russian troops at Nyzhnie Lozove. Three servicemen were injured.\n\nAccording to the information provided by the JFO press-centre in the evening, as of 6:00 pm pro-Russian forces had opened fire on positions of Ukrainian troops on 10 occasions, exclusively in Donetsk region. By the end of the day, there were 20 ceasefire violation along the demarcation line. In the otskirts of Donetsk city, 82 mm mortar volleys landed in Pisky. Butivka mining complex became the target of small arms, snipers, heavy machine guns and rocket launchers. Avdiivka and Kamianka were also hit by antitank rockets. In the region of Mariupol, Ukrainian troops at Vodiane were harassed with heavy machine gun fire, while Talakivka, Pavlopil, Hnutove, Vodiane and Shyrokyne came under small arms fire. Pro-Russian sources reported several Ukrainian violations of the truce by evening. The Ukrainian military carried out a number of attacks on Pikuzy using small arms, heavy machine guns and automatic grenade launchers. The same kind of weapons were employed against Vasiliivka, while Spartak came under small arms and heavy machine gun fire. Uzhivka was hit by rocket propelled grenades. BMP-1 armoured vehicles engaged pro-Russian positions at the outskirts of Horlivka.\n\nAccording to the information provided by the spokesman of the Ukrainian operational headquarters in the morning, pro-Russian troops had opened fire on 20 occasions on Ukrainian positions the previous day, exclusively in Donetsk region; the fire was returned once. The spokesman of the Ministry of Defence reported at noon no casualties in the Donbass region on 2 April. Pro-Russian officials at Donetsk city reported 14 Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire in eight locations using small arms, heavy machine guns, automatic grenade launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, armoured personnel carriers and armoured fighting vehicles. One pro-Russian soldier was killed in action.\n\nThe press-centre of the Joint Forces Operation (JFO) reported in the evening that as of 6:00 pm pro-Russian troops had opened fire on Ukrainian troops on 10 occasions, one Ukrainian soldier was wounded. In the surroundings of Donetsk city, Opytne came under 82 mm mortar fire, while Avdiivka and Pisky were hit by rocket propelled grenades. The separatists attacked Kamianka, Marinka and Butivka coal mine with infantry weapons, including sniper rifles. In the region of Mariupol, antitank rockets landed in Pishchevik and Vodiane. Small arms and sniper fire was reported at Vodiane and Shyrokyne. Pavlopil was the target of heavy machine guns. In the northern section of the demarcation line, the Ukrainian stronghold of Luhanske came under 82 mm mortar fire, and Novooleksandrivka was hit by antitank rockets. By the end of the day the number of registered ceasefire violations had risen to 24. Pro-Russian authorities in Donetsk city told the press that Ukrainian forces broke the ceasefire several times at evening. In the outskirts of Donetsk city, Ukrainian BMP-1 armoured vehicles from Nevelske, supported by small arms and heavy machine guns engaged pro-Russian positions at Lozove. Nearby Spartak became the target of infantry weapons, automatic grenade launchers and antitank rockets, while Kruta Balka and Yakovliivka were fired at from Avdiivka with small arms and heavy machine guns. Yasynuvata was meanwhile hit by small arms fire, machine gun fire and antitank rockets also fired from Avdiivka. In the region of Mariupol, pro-Russian troops at Pikuzy and Uzhivka were harassed with small arms and sniper fire, while 120 mm mortar rounds fired from Pavlopil landed around pro-Russian redoubts at Sosnovske. Sniper fire from the direction of Vodiane was also reported at Dzerzhinske. Ukrainian troops from Hnutove fired small arms and rocket launchers at the village of Novovyboivo.\n\nThe spokesman of the Ukrainian operational headquarters reported in the morning that pro-Russian forces had opened fire on 24 occasions on Ukrainian positions the previous day (including on 22 occasions in Donetsk region and on 2 occasions in Luhansk region); the fire was returned on 4 occasions. The spokesman of the Ministry of Defence confirmed at noon that one Ukrainian serviceman was wounded in action in the Donbass region on 3 April. Pro-Russian officials at Donetsk city recorded 16 Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire in 12 locations using small arms, heavy machine guns, snipers, grenade launchers, 120 mm mortars, armoured personnel carriers and armoured fighting vehicles. According to local sources, the Ukrainian military broke the ceasefire two times within the borders of the self-styled Luhansk People's Republic. The Ukrainian forces engaged pro-Russian positions at Nyzhne Lozove and Kalynivka employing small arms, automatic grenade launchers, rocket launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles and BMP-1 armoured vehicles.\n\nAccording to the information provided by the JFO press-centre in the evening, as of 6:00 pm pro-Russian forces had opened fire on positions of Ukrainian troops on 18 occasions, no casualties were reported. Around Donetsk city, Butivka mining complex became the target of small arms, snipers, rocket launchers and 82 mm mortars. Ukrainian positions at Avdiivka and Kamianka were struck by small arms fire, heavy machine guns and rocket launchers. Antitank rockets also hit Marinka. the rebels used heavy machine guns to harass Ukrainian personnel at Opytne. In the region of Mariupol, armoured fighting vehicles, supported by infantry weapons, opened fire at Ukrainian redoubts near Hnutove, while small arms fire, heavy machine guns and rocket launchers targeted Lebedinske. Rocket propelled grenades were launched at Ukrainian positions at Vodiane, where small arms and sniper fire was also reported. Snipers were likewise active at Shyrokyne. Pavlopil and Lebedinske came under small arms fire. In the northern sector of the demarcation line, Ukrainian troops at Stanytsia Luhanska and Donets railway station received small arms fire. By the end of the day, the number of registered ceasefire violations had risen to 39. Pro-Russian authorities told the media that Ukrainian forces had attacked Pikuzy, Sakhanka, Uzhivka, Yasinuvata, Spartak, Zaitseve, Dzerzhinske and Trudivske. Among the main incidents, Spartak was shelled by 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles and 82 mm mortars, while pro-Russian positions at Sakhanka were engaged by BMP-2 armoured vehicles. Zaitseve came under 82 mm and 120 mm mortar fire.\n\nAccording to the information provided by the spokesman of the Ukrainian operational headquarters in the morning, pro-Russian troops had opened fire on 39 occasions on Ukrainian positions the previous day (including on 37 occasions in Donetsk and on 2 occasions in Luhansk region). The spokesman of the Ministry of Defence reported at noon no casualties in the Donbass region on 4 April. Pro-Russian sources at Donetsk city reported 15 Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire in eight different locations using small arms, snipers, heavy machine guns, automatic grenade launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars and BMP-2 armoured vehicles.\n\nThe press-centre of the Joint Forces Operation (JFO) reported in the evening that as of 6:00 pm pro-Russian troops had opened fire on Ukrainian troops on 10 occasions, no casualties were reported. In the area around Donetsk city, rebel troops fired small arms and rocket launchers at Ukrainian positions around Avdiivka, Novotroitske, Verkhnyotoretske and Butivka coal mine. Avdiivka and Nevelske also came under heavy machine gun fire. Small arms fire was reported at Kamianka, Berezove and Novomyhailivka. In the region of Mariupol, 120 mm mortar volleys landed in Lebedinske. Marinka was fired at from small arms, sniper rifles, heavy machine guns, rocket launchers and 82 mm mortars. Rebel forces fired small arms and several types of grenade launchers at Pavlopil. Small arms fire was reported at Talakivka. In the northern sector of the demarcation line, the separatists attacked Ukrainian positions at Luhanske with heavy machine guns, grenade launchers, 82 mm mortars and 120 mm mortars, Troitske was shelled with 82 mm mortars, while Ukrainian troops at Novozvanivka came under small arms and heavy machine gun fire. By the end of the day the number of registered ceasefire violations had risen to 27. At Donetsk city, pro-Russian authorities said that the Ukrainian military had broken the ceasefire in several locations along the demarcation line, including Vasiliivka, Spartak, Olenivka, Lozove, Staromykhailivka, Verkhnyotoretske and Petrovsky district in the outskirts of Donetsk city, and in the region of Mariupol, Sakhanka, Dzerzhinske and Uzhivka. The main actions took place at Uzhivka, where BMP-1 armoured vehicles engaged pro-Russian redoubts supported by 120 mm mortar fire nearby Sakhanka, also hit by 120 mm mortar rounds, and Dzerzhinske, which became the target of automatic grenade launchers and 73 mm antitank rockets. Lozove was shelled by BMP-2 armoured vehicles.\n\nThe spokesman of the Ukrainian operational headquarters reported in the morning that pro-Russian forces had opened fire on 27 occasions on Ukrainian positions the previous day (including on 23 occasions in Donetsk and on 4 occasion in Luhansk region); the fire was returned on 3 occasions. The spokesman of the Ministry of Defence reported at noon no casualties in the Donbass region on 5 April. Pro-Russian officials at Donetsk city reported 16 Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire in 11 different locations using small arms, snipers, heavy machine guns, automatic grenade launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, 120 mm mortars, armoured personnel carriers and armoured fighting vehicles. Deputy minister of defence from the self-styled Donetsk People's Republic, Eduard Basurin, recorded in his daily briefing 101 Ukrainian violations of the truce over the past week, with 120 rounds fired from 82 mm and 120 mm mortars, weapons banned by the Minsk agreements. Two pro-Russian soldiers were killed by snipers on the same period. Local authorities from the self-proclaimed Luhansk People's Republic denounced two Ukrainian violations of the truce inside the republic boundaries. The Ukrainian army pounded pro-Russian positions at Kalynivka and Dolhe with small arms, automatic grenade launchers, rocket launchers and 82 mm mortars.\n\nAccording to the information provided by the JFO press-centre in the evening, as of 6:00 pm pro-Russian forces had opened fire on positions of Ukrainian troops on 16 occasions, two Ukrainian servicemen were wounded. In the surroundings of Donetsk city, Pisky was shelled with 82 mm mortars, while Avdiivka and Marinka came under small arms and rocket propelled grenade fire. Rebel troops fired small arms at Krasnohorivka, Butivka coal mine, Kamianka and Pisky. In the region of Mariupol, pro-Russian armoured fighting vehicles engaged Ukrainian redoubts at Shyrokyne supported by 122 mm self-propelled artillery. Lebedinske was hit by heavy machine gun fire and antitank rockets, while Ukrainian troops became the target of infantry weapons at Talakivka, Hnutove and Pavlopil. Sniper activity was reported at Shyrokyne. In the northern section of the demarcation line, Luhanske and Novoluhanske were fired at from small arms, heavy machine guns, rocket launchers, 82 mm and 120 mm mortars. Pro-Russian armoured fighting vehicles opened fire at Ukrainian redoubts near Troitske, which were also targeted by heavy machine guns and 82 mm mortars. valuiske was shelled with 120 mm mortars. By the end of the day the number of registered ceasefire violations had risen to 42. Pro-Russian sources at Donetsk city told the press that the Ukrainian military attacked Spartak, Yasynuvata, Mineralne, Vasiilivka, Dokuchaievsk and Petrovsky district, in the outskirts of Donetsk city, Shyroka Balka and Dolomitne in the area of Horlivka, and in the region of Mariupol, Sakhanka and Uzhivka. Ukrainian forces used small arms, snipers, heavy machine guns, automatic grenade launchers, 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars and BMP-1 armoured vehicles. In the main incidents, Shyroka Balka was shelled with 120 mm mortars, while 82 mm mortar volleys landed in Sakhanka, Leninske, Dolomitne and Yasynuvata. BMP-1 armoured fighting vehicles opened fire on pro-Russian entrenchments at Sakhanka, Yasynuvata, Dokuchaievsk and Dolomitne. One pro-Russian soldier was killed by snipers at Mineralne.\n\nAccording to the information provided by the spokesman of the Ukrainian operational headquarters in the morning, pro-Russian troops had opened fire on 42 occasions on Ukrainian positions the previous day (including on 32 occasions in Donetsk region and on 10 occasions in Luhansk region); the fire was returned on 18 occasions. The spokesman of the Ministry of Defence confirmed at noon that two Ukrainian servicemen were wounded in the Donbass region on 6 April. Pro-Russian officials at Donetsk city recorded 23 Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire in ten different areas using small arms, heavy machine guns, snipers, automatic grenade launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars, armoured personnel carriers and armoured fighting vehicles. The same sources reported the death of one pro-Russian serviceman. According to local officials, the Ukrainian military broke the ceasefire four times within the borders of the self-styled Luhansk People's Republic, when Ukrainian forces employed small arms, automatic grenade launchers, rocket launchers, 82 mm mortars and BMP-1 armoured fighting vehicles attacked pro-Russian forces at Kalynivka and Kalynove.\n\nThe press-centre of the Joint Forces Operation (JFO) reported in the evening that as of 6:00 pm pro-Russian troops had opened fire on Ukrainian troops on 17 occasions, one Ukrainian soldier was wounded. In the area of Donetsk city, rebel forces opened fire at Ukrainian positions with small arms, heavy machine guns and rocket launchers. Small arms fire and antitank rockets struck Avdiivka and Butivka mining complex, while Ukrainian troops at Krasnohorivka were harassed with small arms fire. Sniper fire was reported at Slavne. In the region of Mariupol, antitank guided missiles were fired at Pishchevik, while Talakivka and Vodiane became the target of small arms, heavy machine guns and rocket launchers. Rebel snipers opened fire on Ukrainian personnel at Talakivka, Pavlopil and Shyrokyne. Ukrainian forces at Pavlopil, Shyrokyne, Hnutove and Pishchevik received small arms fire. In the northern sector of the demarcation line, Ukrainian positions at Luhanske were engaged with heavy machine guns, rocket launchers and 82 mm mortars. Nearby Malynove became the target of small arms, heavy machine guns and grenade launchers. By the end of the day the number of registered ceasefire violations had risen to 42. Pro-Russian authorities at Donetsk city told the press that Ukrainian forces attacked Spartak, Yasynuvata, Kruta Balka, Olenivka and Dokuchaievsk, in the outskirts of Donetsk city, Dolomitne in the area of Horlivka, and in the region of Mariupol, Sakhanka, Yelenivka and Uzhivka. The Ukrainian military used small arms, heavy machine guns, automatic grenade launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars and BMP-2 armoured vehicles. The incidents involved the shelling of Dolomitne from 120 mm mortars and Sakhanka and Lozove from 82 mm mortars. Ukrainian BMP-2 armoured vehicles engaged pro-Russian troops at Spartak.\n\nThe spokesman of the Ukrainian operational headquarters reported in the morning that pro-Russian forces had opened fire on 42 occasions on Ukrainian positions the previous day (including on 38 occasions in Donetsk region and on 4 occasion in Luhansk region); 4 ceasefire violations were registered during the first half of 8 April. The spokesman of the Ministry of Defence confirmed at noon that one Ukrainian serviceman was wounded in action in the Donbass region on 7 April. Pro-Russian sources at Donetsk city reported 19 Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire in eight locations using small arms, snipers, heavy machine guns, automatic grenade launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars, armoured personnel carriers and armoured fighting vehicles. Two pro-Russian soldiers were killed by Ukrainian snipers, one female civilian was wounded. Sources from the self-proclaimed Luhansk People's Republic recorded three Ukrainian violations of the truce within the republic's borders. The Ukrainian military used 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles and 120 mm mortars to engage pro-Russian troops at Veselehorivka and Kalynove. One serviceman was killed and another wounded by mortar fire at Veselehorivka.\n\nAccording to the information provided by the JFO press-centre in the evening of Orthodox Easter Sunday, as of 6:00 pm pro-Russian forces had opened fire on positions of Ukrainian troops on 12 occasions, four Ukrainian servicemen were wounded. Around Donetsk city, Kaminaka became the target of small arms and rocket launchers, while Ukrainian troops at Avdiivka and Butivka mining complex came under small arms fire. In the region of Mariupol, pro-Russian armoured fighting vehicles engaged Ukrainian positions at Bohdanivka, supported by small arms fire. Heavy machine gun fire harassed Ukrainian forces at Vodiane, Hnutove and Pishchevyk, while Lebedinske, Vodiane, Pishevyk and Shyrokyne were raked by small arms fire. Hostile snipers were active at Shyrokyne. In the northern sector of the demarcation line, rebel forces opened fire on Ukrainian positions with heavy machine guns, rocket launchers, 82 mm and 120 mm mortars. Ukrainian troops at Svitlodarsk, meanwhile, became the target of snipers, heavy machine guns and grenade launchers. Antitank rockets struck nearby Krymske and Valuiske. By the end of the day the number of registered ceasefire violations had risen to 35 and one more Ukrainian soldier was wounded. Pro-Russian officials at Donetsk city told the press that Ukrainian forces opened fire on their troops at Spartak, Kruta Balka and Vasiilivka, in the area of Donetsk city, and Uzhivka and Pikuzy, in the region of Mariupol. The Ukrainian military employed small arms, heavy machine guns, automatic grenade launchers, rocket launchers, 82 mm mortars and BMP-1 armoured vehicles. In the main incidents, Uzhivka came under 82 mm mortars and pro-Russian redoubts at Pikuzy were engaged by BMP-1 armoured vehicles.\n\nAccording to the information provided by the spokesman of the Ukrainian operational headquarters in the morning, pro-Russian troops had opened fire on 35 occasions on Ukrainian positions the previous day (including on 27 occasions in Donetsk and on 9 occasions in Luhansk region). The spokesman of the Ministry of Defence confirmed at noon that five Ukrainian servicemen were wounded in the Donbass region on 8 April. Pro-Russian officials at Donetsk city recorded 19 Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire in eight different areas using small arms, heavy machine guns, automatic grenade launchers, rocket launchers, 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars and BMP-1 armoured vehicles. The same sources denounced a Ukrainian attempt to slip through the demarcation line in the area of Zaitseve, north of Horlivka. The incursion was repelled by the separatists, who claimed that two Ukrainian servicemen were killed. Two pro-Russian soldiers died in the engagement. After an extensive search, which resulted in the death of another pro-Russian serviceman by small arms fire on 12 April, the corpse of the Ukrainian soldier was recovered by rebel forces and handed back to Ukrainian authorities on 15 April at Marinka. According to local sources, the Ukrainian army broke the ceasefire on two occasions within the boundaries of the self-proclaimed Luhansk People's Republic. Ukrainian BMP-1 armoured vehicles from Luhanske attacked pro-Russian positions at Lozove and Kalynivka supported by automatic grenade launchers, ZU-23-2 antiaircraft guns and 82 mm mortars.\n\nThe press-centre of the Joint Forces Operation (JFO) reported in the evening that as of 6:00 pm pro-Russian troops had opened fire on Ukrainian troops on 18 occasions, three Ukrainian soldiers were wounded. In the outskirts of Donetsk city, antitank rockets hit Ukrainian positions at Kamianka, Marinka, Opytne and Avdiivka. From Marinka also came reports of heavy machine gun fire. Ukrainian troops at Pisky were harassed by hostile snipers and by small arms fire at Butivka coal mine and Pervomaisk. In the region of Mariupol, 122 mm self-propelled guns opened fire on Ukrainian redoubts at Lebedinske and Shyrokyne, while 120 mm mortar rounds landed in Vodiane. Lebedinske was later fired at from small arms and 82 mm mortars. Rebel forces fired rocket launchers at Shyrokyne, Talakivka and Vodiane, while Pishchevyk was hit by heavy machine gun fire. Small arms fire was reported at Hnutove, Lebedinske, and Pavlopil. In the northern sector of the demarcation line, the separatists fired heavy machine guns and grenade launchers at Luhanske. Rocket propelled grenades also hit Ukrainian positions around Svitlodarsk and Katerinivka. By the end of the day the number of registered ceasefire violations had risen to 35. At Donetsk city, pro-Russian authorities said that the Ukrainian military had broken the ceasefire in several locations along the demarcation line, including Vasiliivka, Mineralne, Kulikove, Staromyhailivka, Abakumove coal mine, Spartak and Petrovsky district in the outskirts of Donetsk city, and in the region of Mariupol Sakhanka, Pikuzy, Petrovske, Uzhivka and Dzerzhinske. Ukrainian forces opened fire on pro-Russian positions using small arms, sniper rifles, heavy machine guns, automatic grenade launchers. 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars, antitank guided missiles and 122 mm self-propelled artillery. In the main incidents, 122 mm self-propelled guns firing from Vodiane engaged pro-Russian forces at Uzhivka, while 82 mm and 120 mm mortar volleys fired from Shyrokyne landed in Sakhanka. Ukrainian troops from Talakivka launched antitank guided missiles at Pikuzy. Mineralne came under 120 mm mortar fire.\n\nThe spokesman of the Ukrainian operational headquarters reported in the morning that pro-Russian forces had opened fire on 35 occasions on Ukrainian positions the previous day (including on 32 occasions in Donetsk region and on 3 occasions in Luhansk region); the fire was returned on 9 occasions. The spokesman of the Ministry of Defence confirmed at noon that three Ukrainian servicemen were wounded in action in the Donbass region on 9 April. Pro-Russian authorities at Donetsk city recorded 21 Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire in 11 locations using small arms, snipers, heavy machine guns, automatic grenade launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars and 122 mm self-propelled artillery.\n\nAccording to the information provided by the JFO press-centre in the evening, as of 6:00 pm pro-Russian forces had opened fire on positions of Ukrainian troops on 22 occasions, one Ukrainian serviceman was wounded. In the surroundings of Donetsk city, pro-Russian tanks engaged Ukrainian redoubts at Pisky and Kamianka. Rebel troops fired 120 mm mortars at Avdiivka, Pisky, Butivka coal mine and Kamianka. Butivka also came under 82 mm mortar fire. Infantry weapons and rocket launchers were employed to attack Ukrainian troops at Avdiivka, Kamianka, Krasnohorivka, Novotroitske, Butivka, Opytne and Marinka. Armoured fighting vehicles shelled Pisky, and antitank guided missiles were fired at Krasnohorivka. In the region of Mariupol, pro-Russian tanks opened fire on Ukrainian positions at Vodiane. Berdyansk, Lebedinske, Shyrokyne and Vodiane received 120 mm mortar fire, while Lebedinske and Talakivka were hit by 82 mm mortar rounds. Ukrainian troops at Lebedinskye Starohnativka, Talakivka, Hnutove, Vodiane, and Pavlopil came under small arms and heavy machine gun fire. Antitank guided missiles landed in Hnutove and Shyrokyne. In the northern section of the demarcation line, rebel forces fired small arms, heavy machine guns and 82 mm mortars at Novooleksandrivka. Armoured fighting vehicles opened fire at Luhanske. By the end of the day the number of registered ceasefire violations had risen to 64, three more Ukrainian soldiers were wounded and one was injured. Pro-Russian authorities told the press that Ukrainian forces pounded their forces at Volvo Center, Dokuchaievsk, Spartak, Trudivske, Zabicheve, Oktyabrivsky coal mine and Mineralne, in the surroundings of Donetsk city, and Sakhanka, Uzhivka, Pikuzy and Petrovske, in the region of Mariupol. The Ukrainian military used small arms, sniper rifles, heavy machine guns, automatic grenade launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars, BMP-1 and BMP-2 armoured vehicles. In the main incidents, Uzhivka came under 120 mm mortar fire, while Sakhanka and Trudivske were shelled with 82 mm mortars. Ukrainian BMP-1 and BMP-2 armoured vehicles from Bohdanivka engaged pro-Russian redoubts at Petrovske supported by 82 mm mortar fire. The industrial area of Volvo Center was hit by 152 mm artillery barrages. Other sources reported tank and 152 mm artillery fire in the western outskirts of Donetsk city later in the night. In the self-proclaimed Luhansk People's Republic, 82 mm and 120 mm mortar fire was reported at Smile and Kalynove-Borshchevate.\n\nAccording to the information provided by the spokesman of the Ukrainian operational headquarters in the morning, pro-Russian troops had opened fire on 64 occasions on Ukrainian positions the previous day (including on 60 occasions in Donetsk and on 4 occasions in Luhansk region); the fire was returned on 19 occasions. The spokesman of the Ministry of Defence confirmed at noon that four Ukrainian servicemen were wounded and one was injured in the Donbass region on 10 April. Pro-Russian officials at Donetsk city recorded 28 Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire in 11 different areas using small arms, snipers, heavy machine guns, automatic grenade launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars, armoured personnel vehicles, armoured fighting vehicles and 152 mm self-propelled artillery. Three civilian residents were wounded. According to local officials, Ukrainian forces attacked pro-Russian positions at Zholobok, Kalynivka, Kalynove and Kalynove-Borshchevate, within the boundaries of the self-proclaimed Luhansk People's Republic. The Ukrainian army employed small arms, heavy machine guns, automatic grenade launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, 82 mm mortars and BMP-1 armoured vehicles. One pro-Russian soldier was wounded.\n\nThe press-centre of the JFO reported in the evening that as of 6:00 pm pro-Russian troops had opened fire on Ukrainian troops on 13 occasions, exclusively in Donetsk region, no casualties were reported. In the region of Donetsk, Ukrainian forces at Pisky were attacked with heavy machine guns, rocket launchers, 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars and armoured fighting vehicles. Pro-Russian tanks engaged Ukrainian redoubts at nearby Kamianka, while antitank rockets landed in Avdiivka and Marinka, where Ukrainian troops were harassed with small arms and sniper fire. In the region of Mariupol, rebel forces fired grenade launchers at Talakivka and heavy machine guns at Pavlopil, Hnutove and Vodiane. Small arms fire was reported also at Hnutove and Vodiane. In the northern sector of the demarcation line, small arms fire was reported at Stanytsia Luhanska. Troitske was meanwhile hit by 120 mm mortar fire. By the end of the day the number of registered ceasefire violations had risen to 38. Early in the morning the Ukrainian military shelled eight areas around Donetsk city using 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars, antiaircraft artillery, BMP-2 armoured vehicles and 122 mm self-propelled guns. Natural gas pipelines were damaged at the district of Kuybishev. Seven civilian residents were wounded. Later in the day, Ukrainian forces attacked Yakovliivka, Kruta Balka, Petrovsky district, Dokuchaievsk, Abakumove coal mine, Staromykhailivka and Spartak, in the area of Donetsk city, and Zaitseve, in the outskirts of Horlivka. In the main incidents, BMP-1 armoured vehicles opened fire on pro-Russian positions at Spartak supported by 82 mm mortar fire, while Kruta Balka and Abakumove coal mine were hit by 82 mm mortar fire. Forces from the self-styled Luhansk People's Republic shot down a Ukrainian drone while on a reconnaissance flight over Smile.\n\nThe spokesman of the Ukrainian operational headquarters reported in the morning that pro-Russian forces had opened fire on 38 occasions on Ukrainian positions the previous day (including on 36 occasions in Donetsk region and on 2 occasions in Luhansk region). The spokesman of the Ministry of Defence reported at noon no casualties in the Donbass region on 11 April. Pro-Russian authorities at Donetsk city recorded 27 Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire in 13 locations using small arms, snipers, heavy machine guns, automatic grenade launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars, antiaircraft guns, armoured personnel carriers, armoured fighting vehicles and 122 mm self-propelled artillery. According to local sources, the Ukrainian military broke the ceasefire two times within the borders of the self-styled Luhansk People's Republic. The Ukrainian forces engaged pro-Russian positions at Kalynove-Borshchevate and Kalynivka employing automatic grenade launchers, 82 mm mortars and BMP-1 armoured vehicles.\n\nAccording to the information provided by the JFO press-centre in the evening, as of 6:00 pm pro-Russian forces had opened fire on positions of Ukrainian troops on 28 occasions, no casualties were reported. By the end of the day the number of registered ceasefire violations had risen to 66, one Ukrainian soldier was killed and another wounded. In the outskirts of Donetsk city, 120 mm mortar volleys struck Pisky, while Butivka mining complex came under 82 mm mortar fire. Ukrainian positions at Butivka and Opytne were also engaged by ZU-23-2 antiaircraft guns and armoured fighting vehicles. Marinka, Avdiivka, Opytne and Krasnohorivka became the target of infantry weapons and rocket launchers. Hostile snipersopened fire at Avdiivka and Pisky. In the region of Mariupol, Talakivka was hit by 82 mm mortar fire, while pro-Russian armoured fighting vehicles, supported by Zu-23-2 antiaircraft guns, opened fire on Ukrainian forces at Vodiane and Talakivka. The separatists fired small arms, heavy machine guns and grenade launchers at Lebedinske, Hnutove and Shyrokyne. Sniper fire was reported at Pavlopil. In the northern sector of the demarcation line, Troitske was shelled from 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars, ZU-23-2 antiaircraft guns and armoured fighting vehicles. Nearby Krymske was hit by 82 mm mortar fire. Ukrainian redoubts at Luhanske were shelled by ZU-23-2 antiaircraft guns and armoured fighting vehicles. Zaitseve, Novozvanivka, Artemove and Svitlodarsk were fired at from infantry weapons and antitank rocket launchers. Intense hostile fire was reported by pro-Russian authorities along the demarcation line throughout the day. In the main incidents, Ukrainian BMP-1 and BMP-2 from Bohdanivka opened fire at pro-Russian positions around Petrovske, in the region of Mariupol, on several occasions. BMP-1 vehicles from Talakivka also shelled nearby Pikuzy, while Novolaspa became the target of BMP-2's cannon fire. In the area of Horlivka, one pro-Russian soldier was killed when Zaitseve came under heavy small arms fire. Holmivsky was fired at from antiaircraft artillery. Ukrainian armoured personnel carriers and armoured fighting vehicles from Troitske engaged pro-Russian redoubts at Ozeryanivka, which was also hit by 82 mm mortar rounds. BMP-2 armoured vehicles from Novhorodske opened fire on pro-Russian forces at Shyroka Balka. In the outskirts of Donetsk city, Spartak was shelled several times with 82 mm and 120 mm mortars. Volvo-Center and Vesele were hit by 82 mm mortar rounds. Antiaircraft artillery fire was also reported at Vesele, and BMP-2 armoured vehicles opened fire at Bela Kamianka.\n\nAccording to the information provided by the spokesman of the Ukrainian operational headquarters in the morning, pro-Russian troops had opened fire on 66 occasions on Ukrainian positions the previous day (including on 54 occasions in Donetsk and on 12 occasions in Luhansk region); the fire was returned on 20 occasions. The spokesman of the Ministry of Defence confirmed at noon that one Ukrainian serviceman was killed and another wounded in the Donbass region on 12 April. Pro-Russian authorities at Donetsk city reported 45 Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire in 23 areas using small arms, sniper rifles, heavy machine guns, automatic grenade launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars, antiaircraft guns, armoured personnel carriers and armoured fighting vehicles. According to the same sources, there were 182 Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire over the past week. Three pro-Russian soldiers were killed in action and seven civilian residents wounded. The Ukrainian army opened fire 55 times with 152 mm and 122 mm self-propelled artillery and 705 times with 82 mm and 120 mm mortars. Local officials reported that Ukrainian forces broke the ceasefire on five occasions within the boundaries of the self-proclaimed Luhansk People's Republic. The Ukrainian army employed 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars and BMP-1 armoured fighting vehicles to attack pro-Russian positions at Kalynove, Kalynove-Borshchevate, Sentianivka, Sanzharivka and Pervomaisk.\n\nThe press-centre of the JFO reported in the evening that as of 6:00 pm pro-Russian troops had opened fire on Ukrainian troops on 20 occasions, no casualties were reported. Around Donetsk city, 82 mm mortar volleys struck Opytne and Kamianka, while antitank rockets landed in Avdiivka, Kamianka and Marinka. Pro-Russian armoured fighting vehicles opened fire on Ukrainian redoubts at Kamianka, and heavy machine gun fire raked Ukrainian positions at Nevelske, Avdiivka, Marinka and Butivka mining complex. Small arms fire was reported at Opytne, Kamianka and Butivka. Rebel snipers harassed Ukrainian troops at Avdiivka. In the region of Mariupol, rebel forces fired rocket propelled grenades at Vodiane, Pavlopil, Bohdanivka and Lebedinske and heavy machine guns at Pavlopil. Ukrainian positions at Talakivka and Bohdanivka were shelled by armoured fighting vehicles. Small arms fire was reported at Lebedinske, Pavlopil, Talakivka and Vodiane. In the northern section of the demarcation line, armoured fighting vehicles opened fire on Ukrainian redoubts at Troitske supported by heavy machine guns, rocket launchers, 82 mm and 120 mm mortars. Krymske was hit by 82 mm mortar fire, and Zaitseve by small arms fire and antitank rockets. The separatists fired heavy machine guns at Svitlodarsk. By the end of the day the number of registered ceasefire violations had risen to 43, one Ukrainian serviceman was wounded. Pro-Russian authorities told the press that Ukrainian forces attacked Mineralne, Trudivske, Spartak, Kruta Balka, Dokuchaievsk, in the outskirts of Donetsk city, Uzhivka, Sosnovske and Petrovske, in the region of Mariupol, and, in the area of Horlivka, Gagarin mining complex, Dolomitne and Ozeryanivka. In the main incidents, Spartak was repeatedly hit by 82 mm mortar fire, while BMP-1 armoured vehicles engaged pro-Russian positions at Ozeryanivka, Kruta Balka, Sosnovske and Gagarin mining complex. BMP-2 armoured vehicles opened fire at Trudivske, Petrovske and Spartak, while antiaircraft fire raked Gagarin mining complex.\n\nThe spokesman of the Ukrainian operational headquarters reported in the morning that pro-Russian forces had opened fire on 43 occasions on Ukrainian positions the previous day (including on 39 occasions in Donetsk and on 4 occasions in Luhansk region). The spokesman of the Ministry of Defence confirmed at noon that one Ukrainian serviceman was wounded in action in the Donbass region on 13 April. Pro-Russian officials at Donetsk city recorded 19 Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire in 12 different areas using small arms, heavy machine guns, automatic grenade launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, antiaircraft guns, 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars and BMP-1 armoured vehicles. According to local officials, the Ukrainian military broke the ceasefire four times within the borders of the self-styled Luhansk People's Republic. Ukrainian forces employed small arms, heavy machine guns, 82 mm mortars and 120 mm mortars to pound pro-Russian redoubts at Zholobok, Lozove, Sentianivka and Obozne.\n\nAccording to the information provided by the JFO press-centre in the evening, as of 6:00 pm pro-Russian forces had opened fire on positions of Ukrainian troops on 28 occasions, one Ukrainian serviceman was wounded. In the surroundings of Donetsk city, rebel forces shelled Pisky and Butivka coal mine with 82 mm mortars. Antitank rockets struck Ukrainian outposts at Avdiivka, Kamianka, Butivka coal mine and Marinka. Pro-Russian armoured fighting vehicles engaged Ukrainian positions at Novotroitske. Ukrainian troops at Avdiivka came under small arms and antiaircraft direct fire. Heavy machine gun fire was reported at Novotroitske and Butivka coal mine, while Ukrainian troops were harassed by small arms fire at Kamianka and Novomykhailivka and by sniper fire at Butivka. In the region of Mariupol, 122 mm artillery barrages landed in Shyrokyne, while different types of grenade launchers were fire at Vodiane, Lebedinske and Talakivka. Ukrainian redoubts at Vodiane were fired at by armoured fighting vehicles. Ukrainian forces at Pavlopil, Hnutove, Lebedinske and Vodiane were targeted by heavy machine guns, and by small arms at Shyrokyne, Pavlopil, Lebedinske and Talakivka. Snipers opened fire on Ukrainian personnel at Talakivka. In the northern sector of the demarcation line, Zaitseve was struck by 120 mm mortar fire. Pro-Russian rebels attacked nearby Luhanske with heavy machine guns, rocket launchers, 82 mm mortars and armoured fighting vehicles. Ukrainian redoubts at Mayorsk became the target of heavy machine guns and rocket launchers, while heavy machine gun fire struck Troitske. By the end of the day the number of registered ceasefire violations had risen to 52, two more Ukrainian soldiers were wounded. Pro-Russian sources reported Ukrainian violations of the truce at Mineralne, Zhabicheve, Dokuchaievsk, Kruta Balka, Verkhnyotoretske, Spartak and Yasynuvata, in the surroundings of Donetsk city, Zaitseve, Izotove coal mine and Dolomitne, in the area of Horlivka and in the region of Mariupol, Uzhivka and Sakhanka. In the main incidents, Ukrainian troops shelled Uzhivka and Sakhanka with 82 mm and 120 mm mortars; 120 mm mortar volleys also landed in Zaitseve. Dolomitne and Mineralne were meanwhile struck by 82 mm mortars fired from Novoluhanske. BMP-1 armoured vehicles shelled Shyroka Balka and Izotove mining complex. Pro-Russian positions at Dokuchaievsk, Spartak and Yasynuvata were engaged by BMP-2 armoured vehicles.\n\nAccording to the information provided by the spokesman of the Ukrainian operational headquarters in the morning, pro-Russian troops had opened fire on 52 occasions on Ukrainian positions the previous day (including on 41 occasions in Donetsk and on 11 occasions in Luhansk region); the fire was returned on 19 occasions. The spokesman of the Ministry of Defence reported at noon that two Ukrainian servicemen were wounded in action and one was wounded by explosion of an unidentified explosive device in the Donbass region on 14 April. Pro-Russian officials at Donetsk city reported 20 Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire in 11 locations using small arms, snipers, heavy machine guns, automatic grenade launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars, armoured personnel carriers and armoured fighting vehicles. Officials from the self-styled Luhansk People's Republic said that Ukrainian forces broke the ceasefire three times within the republic boundaries. The Ukrainian military employed small arms, heavy machine guns, grenade launchers, 120 mm mortars and armoured fighting vehicles to attack pro-Russian positions at Kalynove, Kalynivka and Nyzhnie Lozove.\n\nThe press-centre of the JFO reported in the evening that as of 6:00 pm pro-Russian troops had opened fire on Ukrainian troops on 24 occasions, no casualties were reported. In the surroundings of Donetsk city, Novotroitske was hit by 120 mm mortar volleys, while Pisky came under 82 mm mortar fire. Rebel forces fired small arms, heavy machine guns and grenade launchers to engage Ukrainian forces at Avdiivka, Kamianka, Butivka mining complex and Verkhnyotoretske. Pro-Russian armoured fighting vehicles shelled Pisky, and hostile sniper were active at Novotroitske. Heavy machine gun fire was reported at Opytne. Sniper fire harassed Ukrainian trops at Slavne and Berezove. In the region of Mariupol, 82 mm and 120 mm mortar rounds landed in Pavlopil; nearby Lebedinske was also hit by 120 mm mortar fire. Pyshchevik, Shyrokyne and Hnutove became the target of small arms, heavy machine guns and rocket launchers. Ukrainian positions at Talakivka were attacked by armoured fighting vehicles, while Ukrainian troops at Lebedinske came under sniper fire. In the northern sector of the demarcation line, Luhanske and Svitlodarsk were shelled with 82 mm and 120 mm mortars. The rebels also employed 120 mm mortars to pound Ukrainian positions at Troitske. Novoluhanske and Novhorodske became the target of heavy machine guns and rocket launchers. Pro-Russian armoured fighting vehicles opened fire on Ukrainian redoubts at Luhanske and Troitske. By the end of the day the number of registered ceasefire violations had risen to 59, one Ukrainian serviceman was wounded and another injured. Pro-Russian officials at Donetsk city told the press that Ukrainian forces broke the ceasefire several times since the morning. The Ukrainian military opened fire at Dokuchaievsk, Kruta Balka, Verkhnyotoretske, Volvo Center, and Spartak, in the surroundings of Donetsk city, Shyroka Balka, Zaitseve, Dolomitne, Zheleznaya Balka and Ozeryanivka in the area of Horlivka and in the region of Mariupol, Sakhanka and Uzhivka. In the main incidents, Zaitseve, Dolomitne and Dokuchaievsk came under 120 mm mortar fire. Sakhanka was shelled with 82 mm mortars, BMP-1 armoured vehicles engaged pro-Russian positions at Sakhanka, Shyroka Balka and Zheleznaya Balka, which also became the target of antiaircraft guns. Some hours later, pro-Russian positions at Zheleznaya Balka were also fired at from BMP-2 armoured vehicles. An antitank guided missile was fired at Dolomitne.\n\nThe spokesman of the Ukrainian operational headquarters reported in the morning that pro-Russian forces had opened fire on 59 occasions on Ukrainian positions the previous day (including on 42 occasions in Donetsk region and on 17 occasions in Luhansk region); the fire was returned on 24 occasions. The spokesman of the Ministry of Defence reported at noon that two Ukrainian servicemen were injured in the Donbass region on 15 April. Pro-Russian officials at Donetsk city reported 31 Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire in 14 different locations using small arms, heavy machine guns, automatic grenade launchers, 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars, antiaircraft guns, antitank guided missiles, armoured personnel carriers, armoured fighting vehicles and 100 mm antitank artillery. Officials from the self-proclaimed Luhansk People's Republic recorded six Ukrainian violations of the truce within the republic's borders. Ukrainian forces engaged pro-Russian positions at Kalynyvka, Sazharivka and Lohvynove using small arms, automatic grenade launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless guns, 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars, BMP-1 and BMP-2 armoured vehicles. One pro-Russian soldier was killed in action and another wounded.\n\nAccording to the information provided by the JFO press-centre in the evening, as of 6:00 pm pro-Russian forces had opened fire on positions of Ukrainian troops on 22 occasions, no casualties were reported. In the area of Donetsk city, rebel forces employed heavy machine guns, 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars and armoured fighting vehicles to attack Ukrainian positions at Pisky. Avdiivka, Marinka, Verkhnyotoretske, Kamianka, Novotroitske and Butivka mining complex came under small arms and rocket propelled grenade fire. Ukrainian troops at Marinka were harassed with heavy machine gun fire. Small arms fire was reported at Opytne and Nevelske. In the region of Mariupol, rebel troops fired small arms, and grenade launchers at Shyrokyne, Vodiane and Hnutove. Pro-Russian armoured personnel carriers engaged Ukrainian positions at Vodiane, while armoured fighting vehicles shelled Talakivka and Hnutove. Lebedinske, Pyshchevik, Talakivka and Pavlopil came under heavy machine gun fire. Small arms fire harassed Ukrainian positions at Lebedinske, Hnutove and Talakivka. Sniper fire was reported at Shyrokyne. In the northern section of the demarcation line, heavy shelling was reported at Zaitseve, which came under 82 mm mortar, 122 mm and 152 mm self-propelled artillery fire. Luhanske was fired at from armoured fighting vehicles, while Krymske was hit by antitank rockets. Heavy machine gun fire was recorded at Luhanske and Novoluhanske. By the end of the day the number of registered ceasefire violations had risen to 52, one Ukrainian soldier (born in 1997) was killed, two servicemen and a servicewoman (nurse-anesthetist) were wounded and two soldiers injured (one of them by a laser). Pro-Russian authorities at Donetsk city reported several violations of the ceasefire throughout the day. Spartak, Dokuchaievsk, Yasynuvata and Zhabicheve, in the outskirts of Donetsk, Zaitseve, Gagarin coal mine, 6-7 coal mine, Dolomitne and Zheleznaya Balka in the area of Horlivka and Uzhivka, Petrovske, Pikuzy, Verhnioshyrokivske and Sosnovske in the region of Mariupol came under attack. In the main incidents, Dolomitne was hit by 82 mm mortar rounds and antitank guided missiles, Uzhivka, Petrovske, Gagarin mining complex and Zaitseve were struck by 120 mm mortar volleys; Uzhivka and Zaitseve were also shelled with 82 mm mortars. Spartak became the target of 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles and 82 mm mortars. BMP-2 armoured vehicles from Novotroitske opened fire on pro-Russian redoubts at Dokuchaievsk, supported by 82 mm mortar fire. BMP-1 armoured vehicles from Dzerzhinsky engaged pro-Russian positions at Gagarin mining complex, while BTR-80 armoured personnel carriers from Novhorodske attacked Zheleznaya Balka. Zhabicheve was raked by cannon fire from BMP-2 armoured vehicles. Heavy fire was reported at coal mine 6-7 later in the night, when pro-Russian redoubts in the area were engaged by Ukrainian tanks and 152 mm self-propelled artillery firing from Daliivka.\n\nAccording to the information provided by the spokesman of the Ukrainian operational headquarters in the morning, pro-Russian troops had opened fire on 52 occasions on Ukrainian positions the previous day (including on 43 occasions in Donetsk and on 9 occasions in Luhansk region (including 5 times at Zaitseve)); the fire was returned on 20 occasions. The spokesman of the Ministry of Defence confirmed at noon that one Ukrainian serviceman was killed and several others were wounded and injured in the Donbass region on 16 April. For the first time during the war a combat related injury caused by a laser weapon was reported. Pro-Russian authorities at Donetsk city recorded 35 Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire in 17 locations using small arms, heavy machine guns, automatic grenade launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars, antitank guided missiles, armoured personnel carriers, armoured fighting vehicles, tanks and 152 mm artillery. One pro-Russian soldier was killed in action. Sources from the self-proclaimed Luhansk People's Republic said that Ukrainian forces broke the ceasefire five times within the republic boundaries. The Ukrainian army employed small arms, heavy machine guns, automatic grenade launchers, rocket launchers, 120 mm mortars, BMP-1 armoured vehicles and 152 mm self-propelled guns to attack pro-Russian positions at Kalynivka, Lohvynove, Makarove and Kalynove.\n\nThe press-centre of the JFO reported in the evening that as of 6:00 pm pro-Russian troops had opened fire on Ukrainian troops on 21 occasions, as a result one Ukrainian sereviceman was killed and two were wounded. Around Donetsk city, Novotroitske was hit by rocket propelled grenades and 82 mm mortar rounds. The rebels also fired small arms, heavy machineguns and rocket launchers at Ukrainian positions near Avdiivka, Butivka mining complex, Verkhnyotoretske and Kamianka. Heavy machine gun fire was reported at Opytne and small arms fire at Nevelske. In the region of Mariupol, pro-Russian armoured fighting vehicles opened fire at Ukrainian forces at Vodiane and Pavlopil. Rebel forces attacked Vodiane and Hnutove with small arms, heavy machine guns, rocket launchers and 120 mm mortars. Pyshchevik, Talakivka and Pavlopil became the target of small arms, heavy machine guns and grenade launchers. Heavy machine guns were fired at Lebedinske and small arms at Shyrokyne. Hostile snipers were active at Lebedinske and Hnutove. In the northern sector of the demarcation line, Zaitseve was hit by 152 mm artillery volleys. Ukrainian troops in the area were also harassed by sniper fire. Rebel forces shelled Troitske with 120 mm mortars, and nearby Novooleksandrivka with rocket launchers and 82 mm mortars. Heavy machine gun firewas reported at Luhanske. By the end of the day the number of registered ceasefire violations had risen to 45 and one more Urainian serviceman was wounded. Multiple ceasefire violations by Ukrainian forces were reported by pro-Russian officials at Donetsk city. The Ukrainian military opened fire at Dokuchaievsk, Yakovliivka, Zhabicheve, Spartak, Vasiilivka and Yasynuvata, in the environs of Donetsk city, Zaitseve, Dolomitne, Mayorsk checkpoint, Shyroka Balka, Dolomitne and Ozeryanivka, in the area of Horlivka, and Petrovske, Uzhivka and Pikuzy, in the region of Mariupol. In the main incidents, Ukrainian tanks engaged pro-Russian forces at Mayorsk checkpoint early in the morning, while Shyroka Balka was struck by 122 mm artillery volleys. Nearby Zaitseve came under 120 mm mortar fire, and antitank guided missiles were launched at Dolomitne.\n\nThe spokesman of the Ukrainian operational headquarters reported in the morning that pro-Russian forces had opened fire on 45 occasions on Ukrainian positions the previous day (including on 40 occasions in Donetsk region and on 5 occasions in Luhansk region); the fire was returned on 22 occasions. The spokesman of the Ministry of Defence confirmed at noon that one Ukrainian serviceman was killed and three others were wounded in action in the Donbass region on 17 April. Pro-Russian authorities at Donetsk city recorded 27 Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire in 14 different locations using small arms, automatic grenade launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless guns, 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars, antitank guided missiles, armoured personnel carriers, armoured fighting vehicles, tanks and 122 mm self-propelled artillery. The same sources reported five civilian workers from the water purification plant wounded at Yasynuvata. Local authorities in the self-proclaimed Luhansk People's Republic said that Ukrainian forces broke the truce on four occasions within the republic borders. The Ukrainian military employed small arms, heavy machine guns, automatic grenade launchers, 82 mm and 120 mm mortars to attack pro-Russian positions at Kalynove, Kalinivka and Zholobok.\n\nAccording to the information provided by the JFO press-centre in the evening, as of 6:00 pm pro-Russian forces had opened fire on positions of Ukrainian troops on 20 occasions, one Ukrainian serviceman was wounded. In the surroundings of Donetsk city, rebel forces opened fire at Ukrainian troops at Nevelske, Novotroitske and Buitvka mining complex with small arms, heavy machine guns, rocket launchers, 82 mm and 120 mm mortars. Pisky was hit by 82 mm mortar barrages, while antitank rockets landed in Avdiivka. Ukrainian positions at Opytne were raked by heavy machine gun fire. Small arms fire was reported at Verkhnytoretske, Marinka, Kamianka and Avdiivka. In the region of Mariupol, Nykolaevka came under 120 mm mortar fire, while grenade launchers and 82 mm mortars were fired at Vodiane. Pro-Russian armoured fighting vehicles opened fire at Bohdanivka, and rocket launchers were fired at Talakivka, Hnutove and Bohdanivka. Heavy machine gun fire harassed Ukrainian troops at Talakivka and Vodiane. Lebedinske and Shyrokyne came under small arms fire. Snipers were active around Hnutove. In the northern section of the demarcation line, Popasna and Novooleksandrivka received 82 mm mortar fire. Antitank rockets hit Ukrainian positions at Luhanske and Svitlodarsk, while heavy machine gun fire struck Novoluhanske. Ukrainian troops became the target of hostile snipers at Mayorsk and Novhoroske. By the end of the day the number of registered ceasefire violations had risen to 50 and another Ukrainian soldier was injured. Several Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire were reported to the press by pro-Russian authorities at evening. Yasynuvata, Volvo Center, Trudivske, Mineralne, Dokuchaievsk and Zhabicheve, in the area around Donetsk city, and in the region of Mariupol Uzhivka, Pikuzy and Dzerzhinske came under hostile fire. In the main incidents, the water purification plant at Yasynuvata, north of Donetsk city, came under heavy fire and had to be evacuated. Operations at the facilities were suspended for the next five days after the area was hit by small arms fire, machine gun fire and 82 mm mortar rounds. Ukrainian tanks from Pisky engaged pro-Russian redoubts at Volvo Center, supported by 82 mm and 120 mm mortar fire. Pikuzy was struck by 120 mm mortar volleys, an apartment building and a power line were heavily damaged. The village was left without electrical power. BMP-2 armoured vehicles opened fire at pro-Russian forces at Trudivske and Dokuchaievsk. Uzhivka, Pikuzy and Zhabicheve came under 82 mm mortar fire.\n\nAccording to the information provided by the spokesman of the Ukrainian operational headquarters in the morning, pro-Russian troops had opened fire on 50 occasions on Ukrainian positions the previous day (including on 41 occasions in Donetsk and on 9 occasions in Luhansk region); the fire was returned on 14 occasions. The spokesman of the Ministry of Defence confirmed at noon that one Ukrainian serviceman was wounded and another injured in the Donbass region on 18 April. Pro-Russian officials at Donetsk city recorded 20 Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire in 10 different locations using small arms, automatic grenade launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars, armoured personnel carriers, armoured fighting vehicles and tanks. Sources from the self-proclaimed Luhansk People's Republic recorded three Ukrainian violations of the truce within the republic's borders. Ukrainian forces engaged pro-Russian positions at Kalynyvka, Kalynove and Pervomaisk using 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, 120 mm mortars and BMP-1 armoured vehicles.\n\nThe press-centre of the JFO reported in the evening that as of 6:00 pm pro-Russian troops had opened fire on Ukrainian troops on 12 occasions, as a result one Ukrainian sereviceman was wounded. In the surroundings of Donetsk city, Pisky was shelled with 82 mm and 120 mm mortars. Nearby Opytne came under 120 mm mortar fire, while Avdiivka was struck by 82 mm mortar volleys. Rebel forces attacked Kamianka, Avdiivka and Butivka mining complex with small arms, heavy machine guns, rocket launchers. Ukrainian troops at Marinka were harassed with small arms fire. In the region of Mariupol, Ukrainian positions at Vodiane and Lebedinske were hit by small arms fire, heavy machine gun fire and antitank rockets. Small arms fire was reported at Hnutove and Pyshchevik. In the northern section of the demarcation line, antitank rockets landed in Stanytsia Luhanska, Artema and Travneve. By the end of the day the number of registered ceasefire violations had risen to 35 and another Urainian soldier was wounded. A number of ceasefire violations were recorded in the course of the day by pro-Russian authorities at Donetsk city in several locations along the demarcation line. Volvo Center, Mykhailivka, Zhabicheve, Vasiilivka, Kruta Balka and Trudivske, in the outskirts of Donetsk city, Uzhivka, Dzerzhinske and Pikuzy, in the region of Mariupol, and Ozeryanivka, in the area of Horlivka came under fire. In the main incidents, 82 mm and 120 mm mortar volleys hit the industrial area of Volvo Center, while nearby Zhabicheve came under 120 mm mortar fire. BMP-2 armoured vehicles from Marinka opened fire on pro-Russian positions at Trudivske, supported by infantry weapons. BMP-1 armoured vehicles from Talakivka shelled Pikuzy, while Uzhivka and Dzerzhinske became the target of 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles. BTR-80 armoured personnel carriers from Verkhnyotoretske engaged pro-Russian redoubts at Mykhailivka, while BMP-2 armoured vehicles and BTR-80 armoured personnel carriers from Troitske attacked Ozeryanivka. Ukrainian snipers opened fire at Marinka checkpoint, wounding three civilian commuters.\n\nThe spokesman of the Ukrainian operational headquarters reported in the morning that pro-Russian forces had opened fire on 35 occasions on Ukrainian positions the previous day (including on 32 occasions in Donetsk region and on 3 occasions in Luhansk region); the fire was returned on 19 occasions. The spokesman of the Ministry of Defence confirmed at noon that two Ukrainian servicemen were wounded in action in the Donbass region on 19 April. Pro-Russian authorities at Donetsk city recorded 18 Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire in 13 locations using small arms, heavy machine guns, snipers, grenade launchers, 120 mm mortars, armoured personnel carriers and armoured fighting vehicles. The same sources denounced 78 Ukrainian violations of the truce over the past week. On the same period, the Ukrainian army fired 122 mm and 152 mm self-propelled artillery 77 times, 69 tank rounds and 863 82 mm and 120 mm mortar shells, all of them weapons banned by the Minsk agreements. Officials from the self-proclaimed Luhansk People's Republic said that Ukrainian forces broke the ceasefire two times within the republic boundaries. The Ukrainian army employed small arms, heavy machine guns, automatic grenade launchers, 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars and BMP-1 armoured vehicles to attack pro-Russian positions at Prishib and Kalynove.\n\nAccording to the information provided by the JFO press-centre in the evening, as of 6:00 pm pro-Russian forces had opened fire on positions of Ukrainian troops on 20 occasions, one Ukrainian serviceman was killed and another wounded. In the outskirts of Donetsk city, 120 mm mortar volleys landed at Novotroitske, while Pisky and Butivka mining complex came under 82 mm mortar fire. Small arms, heavy machine guns and rocket launchers were fired at Butivka mining complex, Verkhnyotoretske, Opytne and Pisky. Small arms fire was reported at Marinka, Avdiivka, Nevelske and Novotroitske. In the region of Mariupol, pro-Russian forces fired BM-21 \"Grad\" multiple rocket launchers at Ukrainian redoubts around Lebedinske; a barrage of 40 rockets struck home. Lebedinske also became the target of small arms, heavy machine guns, rocket launchers and 82 mm mortars. Heavy shelling was likewise reported at Shyrokyne and Vodiane, where Ukrainian positions were pounded with 120 mm mortars and 122 mm self-propelled artillery. Vodiane was later hit by 82 mm mortar fire. Hnutove, meanwhile, was fired at from small arms, heavy machine guns and grenade launchers. In the northern sector of the demarcation line, 122 mm self-propelled guns shelled Popasna. Pro-Russian armoured fighting vehicles engaged Ukrainian positions at Krymske and Troitske, in the later case supported by 82 mm mortar fire. Ukrainian troops at Zaitseve became the target of snipers and rocket launchers. Heavy machine gun fire was reported at Pervomaisk and small arms fire at Novoluhanske. By the end of the day the number of registered ceasefire violations had risen to 36. Pro-Russian authorities told the press that Ukrainian forces broke the ceasefire on several occasions throughout the day. Zhabicheve, Dokuchaievsk, Oktyabrskaya coal mine, in the area surrounding Donetsk city, Zaitseve and Holmivsky, in the area of Horlivka, and Uzhivka, Pikuzy and Bela Kamianka, in the region of Mariupol were targeted by the Ukrainian military. In the main incidents, BMP-1 armoured vehicles attacked Uzhivka, supported by 82 mm mortars. Dokuchaievsk came under 82 mm and 120 mm mortars. Oktyabrskaya coal mine was shelled with 120 mm mortars, and Holmivsky with 82 mm mortars. BMP-2 armoured vehicles opened fire on pro-Russian positions at Dokuchaievsk.\n\nAccording to the information provided by the spokesman of the Ukrainian operational headquarters in the morning, pro-Russian troops had opened fire on 36 occasions on Ukrainian positions the previous day (including on 28 occasions in Donetsk and on 8 occasions in Luhansk region); the fire was returned on 15 occasions. By 9:00 am of 21 April 9 attacks on Ukrainian positions were registered. The spokesman of the Ministry of Defence confirmed at noon that one Ukrainian serviceman was killed and another was wounded in the Donbass region on 20 April. Pro-Russian authorities at Donetsk city reported 22 Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire in 12 locations using small arms, automatic grenade launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars, armoured personnel carriers and armoured fighting vehicles. Local sources told the press that Ukrainian forces broke the ceasefire on five occasions within the boundaries of the self-proclaimed Luhansk People's Republic. The Ukrainian military employed small arms, heavy machine guns, automatic grenade launchers, rocket launchers and BMP-1 armoured vehicles to attack pro-Russian positions at Zeleznaya Roshcha, Kalynove, Nyzhne Lozove and Knyaz Igor memorial.\n\nThe press-centre of the JFO reported in the evening that as of 6:00 pm pro-Russian troops had opened fire on Ukrainian troops on 31 occasions. By the end of the day the number of registered ceasefire violations had risen to 47, one Ukrainian serviceman was killed, two were wounded and two injured. In the environs of Donetsk city, Novotroitske was shelled with 120 mm mortars, while Avdiivka and Nevelske were attacked with small arms and rocket launchers. Heavy machine gun and sniper fire was reported at Novotroitske. Ukrainian personnel at Krasnohorivka and Butivka mining complex. Pro-Russian tanks engaged Ukrainian redoubts at Pavlopil and Pyshchevik, in the region of Mariupol. In the same area, 120 mm mortar barrages hit Vodiane, and armoured fighting vehicles opened fire at Pavlopil and Talakivka. Rebel troops fired small arms and rocket launchers at Hnutove and Vodiane, and heavy machine guns at Pyshchevik, Talakivka and Chernenko. Ukrainian forces were harassed with small arms at Lebedinske and sniper fire at Pavlopil. In the northern section of the demarcation line, Zaitseve, Katerinivka, and Novooleksandrivka came under 120 mm mortar fire, while Novoselivka, Luhanske, Novhorodske, and Zaitseve were shelled with 82 mm mortars. Zaitseve was also hit by antitank rockets. Ukrainian troops at Krymske became the target of small arms and grenade launchers, Small arms fire was likewise reported at Novoselivka. As a result, one Ukrainian serviceman was wounded and another soldier had suffered combat related injuries. Pro-Russian sources at Donetsk city reported a number of Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire by evening. The Ukrainian military opened fire at pro-Russian forces at Dokuchaievsk, Kruta Balka, Zhabicheve, Mykhailivka, Abakumove, Spartak, Trudivske and Staromyhailivka, in the area of Donetsk city, Ozeryanivka, Dolomitne and Zaitseve in the area of Horlivka and in the region of Mariupol Sosnovske, Pikuzy and Dzerzhinske. In the main incidents, Ukrainian forces at Dokuchaievsk were engaged with automatic grenade launchers, 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars and BMP-2 armoured vehicles. Zhabicheve, Dzerzhinske, Pikuzy and Abakumove came under 82 mm mortar fire. Later, 120 mm mortar volleys landed in Pikuzy and Ozeryanivka. Colonel Andryi Marochko, military spokesman of the self-proclaimed Luhansk People's Republic, announced that pro-Russian forces shot down an armed Ukrainian drone over the city of Luhansk, the second since 1 April.\n\nThe spokesman of the Ukrainian operational headquarters reported in the morning that pro-Russian forces had opened fire on 47 occasions on Ukrainian positions the previous day (including on 36 occasions in Donetsk region and on 11 occasions in Luhansk region); the fire was returned on 20 occasions. The spokesman of the Ministry of Defence confirmed at noon that one Ukrainian soldier was killed, two others were wounded and another two were injured in action in the Donbass region on 21 April. Pro-Russian sources at Donetsk city recorded 36 Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire in 18 different locations using small arms,heavy machine guns, automatic grenade launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars, armoured personnel carriers and armoured fighting vehicles. Officials from the self-proclaimed Luhansk People's Republic said that Ukrainian forces broke the ceasefire four times within the republic boundaries. The Ukrainian army employed small arms, rocket launchers, 82 mm and 120 mm mortars to attack pro-Russian positions at Zholobok, Pervomaisk and Kalynove-Borshchevate. The same sources said that one civilian resident was killed by an explosive device at Vrubivskyi, in Lutuhyne Raion.\n\nAccording to the information provided by the JFO press-centre in the evening, as of 6:00 pm pro-Russian forces had opened fire on positions of Ukrainian troops on 10 occasions, with no accompanying casualties on the Ukrainian side. In the area around Donetsk city, small arms and rocket launchers were fired at Avdiivka, Butivka mining complex and Marinka. Heavy machine gun fire was reported at Krasnohorivka and small arms fire at Kamianka. Ukrainian troops at Novotroitske came under sniper fire. In the region of Mariupol, rebel forces opened fire on Ukrainian positions at Talakivka with small arms, heavy machine guns, grenade launchers and 82 mm mortars. Vodiane was hit by small arms fire and antitank rockets, while heavy machine guns were fired at Pavlopil, Hnutove and Shyrokyne. Sniper fire was reported at Pavlopil. In the northern sector of the demarcation line, 120 mm mortar volleys landed in Nohorodske and Luhanske. The separatists also fired 82 mm mortars at Novoselivka, Novhorodske and Troitske. Pro-Russian armoured fighting vehicles shelled Luhanske and Troitske. Heavy machine gun fire struck Ukrainian positions at Troitske, Luhanske and Novoselivka. Ukrainian troops at Novhorodske became the target of small arms. By the end of the day, the number of incidents had risen to 30. A number of Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire were reported throughout the day by pro-Russian authorities at Donetsk city. Dokuchaievsk, Vasiliivka, Yasynuvata, Yakovliivka, Trudivske, Verkhnyotoretske, Kruta Balka, Mineralne and Mykhailivka, in the outskirts of Donetsk city, Ozeryanivka, Dolomitne, Zaitseve and Shyroka Balka in the area of Horlivka and in the region of Mariupol, Sosnovske and Dzerzhinske were fired at from Ukrainian positions. In the main incidents, Ukrainian forces shelled Ozeryanivka and Yasynuvata with 82 mm and 120 mm mortars. Dokuchaievsk and Kruta Balka came under 120 mm mortar fire, while 82 mm mortar rounds landed in Dzerzhinske and Shyroka Balka. BMP-2 armoured vehicles engaged pro-Russian positions at Dokuchaievsk, Mykhailivka and Ozeryanivka.\n\nAccording to the information provided by the spokesman of the Ukrainian operational headquarters in the morning, pro-Russian troops had opened fire on 30 occasions on Ukrainian positions the previous day (including on 25 occasions in Donetsk and on 5 occasions in Luhansk region); the fire was returned on 20 occasions. By 9:00 am of 23 April 10 attacks on Ukrainian positions were recorded. The spokesman of the Ministry of Defence reported at noon no casualties in the Donbass region on 22 April. Pro-Russian officials at Donetsk city recorded 32 Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire in 17 locations using small arms, heavy machine guns, grenade launchers, 120 mm mortars, armoured personnel carriers and armoured fighting vehicles. Four days after being attacked with mortar fire, Yasynuvata's water purification plant resumed operations as usual. Local sources reported that Ukrainian forces broke the ceasefire on six occasions within the boundaries of the self-proclaimed Luhansk People's Republic. The Ukrainian army employed small arms, machine guns, automatic grenade launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, 82 mm mortars and BMP-1 armoured vehicles to attack pro-Russian positions at Prishib, Stepove, Lohvynove, Kalynove and Slavyanoserbsk.\n\nThe press-centre of the JFO reported in the evening that as of 6:00 pm pro-Russian troops had opened fire on Ukrainian troops on 25 occasions, as a result three Ukrainian servicemen were wounded. By the end of the day the number of registered ceasefire violations had risen to 44, one more Ukrainian serviceman was wounded and one was injured. In the outskirts of Donetsk city, Butivka mining complex was targeted by 82 mm mortars. Separatist forces opened fire on Avdiivka, Verkhnyotoretske, Kamianka, Krasnohorivka, Marinka, Nevelske and Butivkamining complex using small arms, heavy machine guns, grenade launchers and armoured fighting vehicles. In the region of Mariupol, Vodiane was hit by 120 mm mortars, while 82 mm mortar volleys struck Lebedinske. Pro-Russian armoured fighting vehicles engaged pro-Russian positions at Vodiane, Hnutove, Lebedinske, Pavlopil, Pyshchevik and Talakivka supported by infantry weaponsand rocket launchers. In the northern sector of the demarcation line, Troitske was shelled with 82 mm and 120 mm mortars; 82 mm mortar rounds also landed in Novooleksandrivka. Novozvanivka, Popasna, Troitske and Novoselivka became the target of small arms, heavy machine guns and grenade launchers. Pro-Russian officials at Donetsk city told the press that Ukrainian forces broke the ceasefire several times in the course of the day. Yasynuvata, Dokuchaievsk, Staromykhailivka, Mykhailivka, Volvo Center and Spartak, in the surroundings of Donetsk city, Sakhanka, Uzhivka, Styla and Pikuzy in the region of Mariupol, and in the area of Horlivka, Zaitseve and Shyroka Balka came under attack. In the main incidents, Dokuchaievsk became the target of 120 mm mortars and antitank guided missiles; a farm complex was damaged. Heavy shelling was meanwhile reported at Uzhivka, shelled with 120 mm mortars and 152 mm self-propelled artillery firing from Vodiane. Zaitseve, Yasynuvata, Uzhivka, Pikuzy, Sakhanka and Styla came under 82 mm mortar fire. BMP-1 armoured vehicles opened fire at pro-Russian positions at Pikuzy, Spartak, Sakhanka, Styla and Shyroka Balka. BMP-2 armoured vehicles attacked Yasynuvata and Zaitseve. Pro-Russian forces at Mykhailivka were engaged by BTR-80 armoured personnel carriers from Verkhnyotoretske, supported by 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles and heavy small arms fire.\n\nThe spokesman of the Ukrainian operational headquarters reported in the morning that pro-Russian forces had opened fire on 44 occasions on Ukrainian positions the previous day (including on 34 occasions in Donetsk region and on 10 occasions in Luhansk region); the fire was returned on 23 occasions. By 9:00 am of 24 April 13 ceasefire violations were registered. The spokesman of the Ministry of Defence reported at noon that two Ukrainian servicemen were wounded in action and three others were injured by explosion of an unidentified explosive device in the Donbass region on 23 April. Pro-Russian officials at Donetsk city recorded 20 Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire in 13 different locations using small arms, automatic grenade launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars, antitank guided missiles, armoured personnel carriers and armoured fighting vehicles. One civilian resident was killed and another wounded at Zaitseve. Local authorities in the self-proclaimed Luhansk People's Republic said that Ukrainian forces broke the truce on six occasions within the republic borders. The Ukrainian military employed small arms, heavy machine guns, automatic grenade launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless guns, 82 mm and 120 mm mortars to attack pro-Russian positions at Kalynove, Kalinivka, Stepove and Pervomaisk.\n\nAccording to the information provided by the JFO press-centre in the evening, as of 6:00 pm pro-Russian forces had opened fire on positions of Ukrainian troops on 28 occasions, four Ukrainian servicemen were wounded. In the area around Donetsk city, Novotroitske was hit by 120 mm mortar barrages. Rocket propelled grenades landed in Avdiivka and Marinka, and heavy machine gun fire was reported at Pervomaisk, Krasnohorivka and Butivka mining complex. Ukrainian troops at Kamianka, Novomykhailivka and Avdiivka were harassed with small arms fire. In the region of Mariupol, heavy shelling was reported at Lomakine, which became the target of antitank rockets, 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars and 122 mm self-prpeled artillery. Hnutove and Pyshchevik came under 120 mm mortar fire, and 82 mm mortar volleys struck Shyrokyne and Vodiane. Rocket launchers were fired at Hnutove, Talakivka, Lebedinske and Pyshchevik. Ukrainian positions at Pavlopil were raked with heavy machine gun fire, while armoured fighting vehicles attacked Vodiane, Hnutove and Pyshchevik. Small arms fire was reported at Vodiane and Talakivka, and sniper activity at Pavlopil, Talakivka and Shyrokyne. By the end of the day the number of registered ceasefire violations had risen to 69, five more Ukrainian soldiers were wounded and two were injured. Pro-Russian sources told the press that Ukrainian forces opened fire at pro-Russian positions on several occasions throughout the day. The Ukrainian army attacked Trudivske, Kruta Balka, Dokuchaievsk, Verkhnyotoretske and Yasynuvata, in the environs of Donetsk city, Zaitseve, Ozeryanivka, Izotove coal mine and Dolomitne, in the area of Horlivka, and in the region of Mariupol, Sakhanka, Verhnioshyrokivske, Uzhivka, Dzerzhinske and Zaichenko. In the main incidents, Sakhanka, Uzhivka, Trudivske, Verhnioshyrokivske and Dolomitne came under 120 mm mortar fire. Ukrainian troops shelled Pikuzy, Uzhivka, Trudivske, Yasynuvata, Dokuchaievsk and Zaichenko with 82 mm mortars. BMP-1 armoured vehicles engaged pro-Russian redoubts at Zaitseve, Trudivske and Uzhivka, while BMP-2 armoured vehicles opened fire at Verhnioshyrokivske, Pikuzy, Trudivske, Volvo Center and Zaichenko. Pro-Russian forces at Pikuzy became the target of antiaircraft guns.\n\nAccording to the information provided by the spokesman of the Ukrainian operational headquarters in the morning, pro-Russian troops had opened fire on 69 occasions on Ukrainian positions the previous day (including on 49 occasions in Donetsk and on 20 occasions in Luhansk region); the fire was returned on 30 occasions. The spokesman of the Ministry of Defence confirmed at noon that seven Ukrainian servicemen were wounded in action, two were injured in a combat related situation, and two were wounded by explosion of an IED the Donbass region on 24 April. Pro-Russian authorities at Donetsk city recorded 43 Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire in 21 locations using small arms, heavy machine guns, automatic grenade launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars, antiaircraft guns, armoured personnel carriers and armoured fighting vehicles. According to local sources, the Ukrainian military broke the ceasefire 12 times within the borders of the self-styled Luhansk People's Republic. The Ukrainian military employed sniper rifles, automatic grenade launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars, BMP-1 armoured vehicles and 122 mm self-propelled artillery to engage pro-Russian positions at Kalynivka, Lohvynove, Nyzhnie Lozove, Zholobok and Knyaz Igor memorial.\n\nThe press-centre of the JFO reported in the evening that as of 6:00 pm pro-Russian troops had opened fire on Ukrainian troops on 33 occasions, as a result four Ukrainian servicemen were wounded and one soldier was injured. In the area of Donetsk city, rebel forces fired rocket propelled grenades and 120 mm mortars at Ukrainian positions at Verkhnyotoretske and Butivka mining complex. Avdiivka became the target of small arms, rocket launchers and 82 mm mortars. Armoured fighting vehicles attacked Butivka mining complex, while nearby Kamianka was hit by antitank rockets. Heavy machine gun fire was reported at Krasnohorivka, Nevelske, Slavne, Verkhnyotoretske and Pisky. In the region of Mariupol, Hnutove was struck by small arms fire, heavy machine gun fire, antitank rockets, antitank guided missiles and 120 mm mortar rounds. Antitank guided missiles also hit Talakivka. Armoured fighting vehicles opened fire at Talakivka and Bohdanivka. Heavy machine gun fire was reported at Pavlopil, and small arms fire at Shyrokyne, Lebedinske and Pyshchevik. In the northern section of the demarcation line, the village of Novoluhanske witnesses heavy shelling. The Ukrainian stronghold was pounded by 120 mm mortars, tanks, 152 mm artillery and BM-21 \"Grad\" multiple rocket launchers. Nearby Svitlodarsk was shelled by 82 mm mortars and 152 mm self-propelled guns. Pro-Russian tanks engaged Ukrainian positions at Novoselivka, supported by small arms, grenade launchers, 82 mm mortars and armoured fighting vehicles. Novozvanivka, meanwhile, was fired at from heavy machine guns, rocket launchers, 120 mm mortars and armoured fighting vehicles. Troitske came under 82 mm and 120 mm mortar fire, and 122 mm artillery volleys hit Zaitseve. Armoured fighting vehicles opened fire on Ukrainian positions at Luhanske and Novhorodske supported by 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars and 122 mm self-propelled artillery. Ukrainian troops at Malinove were harassed with small arms fire. By the end of the day the number of registered ceasefire violations had risen to 76, four more Ukrainian servicemen were wounded and two more injured. Pro-Russian officials at Donetsk city told the press that Ukrainian forces broke the ceasefire several times throughout the day. Spartak, Yasinuvata, Yakovliivka, Trudivske, Mineralne and Verkhnyotoretske, in the outskirts of Donetsk city, Zaitseve, Holmivsky and Dolomitne, in the area of Horlivka, and in the region of Mariupol, Uzhivka, Styla and Pikuzy. In the main incidents, heavy shelling was reported at Zaitseve, where three civilian residences were wrecked by 120 mm mortar barrages. The Ukrainian military also employed 120 mm mortars to shell Spartak, Mineralne, Styla, Pikuzy, Uzhivka and Holmivsky. Later in the evening, Ukrainian tanks engaged pro-Russian positions at Spartak. Yakovlivka, Spartak, Yasynuvata and Mineralne came under 82 mm mortar fire. Zaitseve and Ozeryanivka were hit by 100 mm T-12 antitank artillery. Self-propelled 122 mm guns shelled Zaitseve, while BMP-1 armoured vehicles opened fire on pro-Russian forces at Dolomitne, Ozeryanivka, Styla, Spartak, coal min 6/7 and Trudivske, while BMP-2 armoured vehicles fired at Styla on two different occasions, once at Ozeryanivka and Novolaspa. BTR-80 armoured personnel carriers attacked Ozeryanivka, and antitank guided missiles landed in the surroundings of Zaitseve.\n\nThe spokesman of the Ukrainian operational headquarters reported in the morning that pro-Russian forces had opened fire on 76 occasions on Ukrainian positions the previous day (including on 51 occasions in Donetsk region and on 25 occasions in Luhansk region); the fire was returned on 30 occasions. By 9:00 am of 26 April 6 ceasefire violations were registered, exclusively in Donetsk region. The spokesman of the Ministry of Defence confirmed at noon that eight Ukrainian servicemen were wounded in action and two soldiers were injured in the Donbass region on 25 April. Pro-Russian authorities at Donetsk city recorded 38 Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire in 18 locations using small arms, snipers, heavy machine guns, automatic grenade launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars, antiaircraft guns, armoured personnel carriers, armoured fighting vehicles, 100 mm antitank guns, tanks and 122 mm self-propelled artillery. According to local sources, the Ukrainian military broke the ceasefire within the boundaries of the self-proclaimed Luhansk People's Republic. The Ukrainian military employed small arms, heavy machine guns, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, 82 mm mortars and 120 mm mortars to pound pro-Russian redoubts at Kalynivka, Kalynove, Lohvynove and Nyzhnie Lozove.\n\nAccording to the information provided by the JFO press-centre in the evening, as of 6:00 pm pro-Russian forces had opened fire on positions of Ukrainian troops on 21 occasions, four Ukrainian servicemen were wounded. In the surroundings of Donetsk city, pro-Russian armoured fighting vehicles engaged Ukrainian positions at Novotroitske supported by small arms, rocket launchers and 120 mm mortars. Krasnohorivka, Butivka mining complex and Verkhnyotoretske were hit by heavy machine gun fire, rocket launchers and 82 mm mortar rounds. The separatists fired small arms and rocket propelled grenades at Avdiivka, Marinka and Kamianka. Butivka mining complex was shelled by armoured fighting vehicles, while Nevelske and Opytne became the target of heavy machine guns. Opytne also came under small arms fire. In the region of Mariupol, Ukrainian positions at Lebedinske were hit by small arms fire, heavy machine gun fire and 82 mm mortar volleys. Rebel troops fired small arms and grenade launchers at the Ukrainian troops of Marinka. Ukrainian forces at Talakivka were harassed with heavy machine gun fire, and small arms fire was reported at Lomakine, Lebedinske, Shyrokyne, Hnutove and Pyschevik. In the northern sector of the demarcation line, Ukrainian positions at Zaitseve were hit by heavy machine guns, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles and 120 mm mortars. Rebel forces fired small arms, heavy machine guns, rocket propelled grenades and 82 mm mortars at Ukrainian redoubts near Zolote. By the end of the day the number of registered ceasefire violations had risen to 52, total five Ukrainian soldiers were wounded and injured. Pro-Russian officials at Donetsk city told the press that Ukrainian forces broke the truce several times since the morning. The Ukrainian military opened fire at Yasynuvata, Mykhailivka, Dokuchaievsk and Spartak, in the surroundings of Donetsk, Zaitseve, Holmivsky and Ozeryanivka, in the area of Horlivka, and in the region of Mariupol, Sakhanka, Pikuzy and Novolaspa. In the main incidents, Zaitseve became the target of a vicious shelling, when pro-Russian positions in the area were engaged by automatic grenade launchers, 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars, antiaircraft guns, BMP-2 armoured vehicles and tanks. Dokuchaievsk was hit by 152 mm self-propelled artillery, while 122 mm artillery volleys landed in Holmivsky. The Ukrainian military fired 120 mm mortars at Mykhailivka, Mineralne, Dokuchaievsk and Yasynuvata, and 82 mm mortars at Yasynuvata, Spartak and Mineralne. Ukrainian tanks engaged pro-Russian redoubts at Dokuchaievsk, and BMP-1 armoured vehicles attacked Yasynuvata and Pikuzy. BMP-2 opened 30 mm cannon fire at Spartak, Dokuchaievsk, Novolaspa, Ozeryanivka and Mineralne. Two elderly civilian residents were killed at Dokuchaievsk.\n\nAccording to the information provided by the spokesman of the Ukrainian operational headquarters in the morning, pro-Russian troops had opened fire on 52 occasions on Ukrainian positions the previous day (including on 49 occasions in Donetsk and on 3 occasions in Luhansk region); the fire was returned on 30 occasions. From the midnight of 27 April till noon 12 ceasefire violations were registered in Donetsk region and 1 in Luhansk region. The spokesman of the Ministry of Defence confirmed at noon that three Ukrainian servicemen were wounded and two were injured in the Donbass region on 26 April. Pro-Russian officials at Donetsk city recorded 35 Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire in 14 different areas using small arms, heavy machine guns, automatic grenade launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, antiaircraft guns, 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars, armoured personnel carriers, armoured fighting vehicles, tanks, 122 mm and 152 mm self-propelled artillery. The same sources recorded 231 Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire in the course of the past week. The Ukrainian army fired 77 artillery rounds, 19 tank rounds, and 1,264 shells from 82 mm and 120 mm mortars. Authorities from the self-styled Luhansk People's Republic said that the Ukrainian military broke the ceasefire two times within the republic boundaries. Ukrainian forces from Luhanske employed small arms, heavy machine guns, automatic grenade launchers and 82 mm mortars to attack pro-Russian positions at Lozove.\n\nThe press-centre of the JFO reported in the evening that as of 6:00 pm pro-Russian troops had opened fire on Ukrainian troops on 26 occasions, no casualties were reported. In the surroundings of Donetsk city, rebel troops fired infantry weapons and rocket launchers at the Ukrainian strongholds of Nevelske, Pisky, Marinka, Kamianka and Butivka mining complex. Antitank rockets landed around Avdiivka, while Ukrainian forces at Verkhnyotoretske and Opytne came under heavy machine gun fire. Small arms fire was reported at Avdiivka and Krasnohorivka, and snipers harassed Ukrainian troops at Marinka. In the region of Mariupol, Vodiane was attacked with small arms, heavy machine guns, grenade lanchers, 82 mm mortars and 120 mm mortars. Nearby Lebedinske was struck by 120 mm mortar volleys. The separatists also fired small arms, heavy machine guns and rocket launchers at Lebedinske and Hnutove. Armoured fighting vehicles shelled Talakivka, which also became the target of antitank guided missiles. Rocket propelled grenades were fired at Vodiane, and heavy machine gun fire raked Ukrainian redoubts at Shyrokyne, Pavlopil and Pyshchevik. Small arms fire was reported at Talakivka and Shyrokyne. In the northern sector of the demarcation line, Ukrainian armoured fighting vehicles engaged Ukrainian positions at Krymske supported by heavy machine guns, rocket launchers, 82 mm mortars and 120 mm mortars. Armoured fighting vehicles also attacked Svitlodarsk. Simultaneously, Ukrainian positions there received 120 mm mortar fire. By the end of the day the number of registered ceasefire violations had risen to 53 and three Ukrainian servicemen were wounded. Donetsk People's Republic deputy ministry of defence, Eduard Basurin, told the press that early in the morning, a team of 14 Ukrainian marines attempted to break through the demarcation line in the region of Mariupol. The intruders end up stranded in a minefield and came under fire from pro-Russian positions. The Ukrainian marines managed to got back to their lines supported by mortar fire. Basurin claimed that three Ukrainian servicemen were killed and four others wounded. Two pro-Russian soldiers were killed in action. Pro-Russian sources also reported a number of Ukrainian violations of the truce at Yasynuvata, Spartak, Kruta Balka and Vasiliivka, in the area of Donetsk city, and Novolaspa, Verkhnyoshyrokivske, Petrovske, Dzerzhinske and Pikuzy, in the region of Mariupol. In the main incidents, Verkhnyoshyrokivske came under 82 mm and 120 mm mortars; 120 mm mortar volleys also struck Spartak, and Pikuzy. BMP-2 armoured vehicles opened fire on pro-Russian positions at Yasynuvata, Spartak, Novolaspa and Petrovske.\n\nThe spokesman of the Ukrainian operational headquarters reported in the morning that pro-Russian forces had opened fire on 53 occasions on Ukrainian positions the previous day (including on 50 occasions in Donetsk region and on 3 occasions in Luhansk region); the fire was returned on more than 20 occasions. By 9:00 am of 28 April 10 ceasefire violations were registered. The spokesman of the Ministry of Defence confirmed at noon that three Ukrainian servicemen were wounded in action in the Donbass region on 27 April. Pro-Russian officials at Donetsk city reported 17 Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire in 12 different locations using small arms, heavy machine guns, automatic grenade launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, armoured personnel carriers and armoured fighting vehicles. In the territory of the self-proclaimed Luhansk People's Republic, local officials recorded seven Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire, The Ukrainian military engaged rebel positions at Pervomaisk, Sentianivka, Zholobok, Donetskyi, Kalynove and Kalinivka using small arms, heavy machine guns, automatic grenade launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, 82 mm and 120 mm mortars.\n\nAccording to the information provided by the JFO press-centre in the evening, as of 6:00 pm pro-Russian forces had opened fire on positions of Ukrainian troops on 21 occasions, three Ukrainian servicemen were wounded and two were injured. In the environs of Donetsk city, Avdiivka became the target of small arms, heavy machine guns, grenade launchers, 82 mm and 120 mm mortars. Novotroitske was hit by 120 mm mortar barrages, while 82 mm mortar volleys landed in Novoselivka and Butivka mining complex. Rebel forces fired small arms, heavy machine guns and rocket launchers at Marinka, Kamianka, Novotroitske, Opytne, Krasnohorivka, Verkhnyotoretske and Butivka miniing complex. Sniper fire was reported at Marinka. In the region of Mariupol, 120 mm mortar rounds hit Bohdanivka, while Vodiane came under 82 mm mortar fire. The separatists employed infantry weapons and rocket launchers to attack Ukrainian positions at Pavlopil, Hnutove, Vodiane, Shyrokyne and Lebedinske. Sniper fire was reported at Shyrokyne. In the northern section of the demarcation line, pro-Russian tanks engaged Ukrainian redoubts at Krymske, supported by 122 mm self-propelled artillery. Heavy shelling was likewise reported at Novotoshkivke, where Ukrainian forces were pounded by 120 mm mortars, 122 mm artillery and 152 mm artillery. Luhanske and Troitske came under 120 mm mortar fire. Prychepylivka and Novozvanivka were targeted by 82 mm mortars. Antitank rockets landed in Popasna and Luhanske. Armoured fighting vehicles opened fire at Ukrainian forces around Troitske. Ukrainian troops at Novoselivka were harassed with small arms fire. By the end of the day the number of registered ceasefire violations had risen to 61, one more Ukrainian soldier was wounded and one more injured. Pro-Russian officials reported two civilian residents killed, one seriously injured, two houses and a bus destroyed in the course of heavy shelling on Dokuchaievsk, in the southern outskirts of Donetsk city. The town was shelled by tanks and 120 mm mortars firing from Novotroitske. Ukrainian forces from Avdiivka fired small arms, heavy machine guns, rocket propelled grenades, 82 mm and 120 mm mortars at the water purification plant at Yasynuvata; the compound had to be shut down once again, despite the presence of OSCE mission monitors. Zaitseve, north of Horlivka, also came under mortar fire during the visit of German and Russian NGOs volunteers. Ukrainian fire damaged a high power line at Krasny Partizan.\n\nAccording to the information provided by the spokesman of the Ukrainian operational headquarters in the morning, pro-Russian troops had opened fire on 61 occasions on Ukrainian positions the previous day (including on 51 occasions in Donetsk and on 10 occasions in Luhansk region); the fire was returned on 30 occasions. From the midnight of 29 April till 9:00 am 11 ceasefire violations were registered in Donetsk and 1 in Luhansk region; the fire was returned on 7 occasions. The spokesman of the Ministry of Defence confirmed at noon that four Ukrainian servicemen were wounded and three were injured in the Donbass region on 28 April. Pro-Russian officials at Donetsk city recorded 12 Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire in nine different areas using small arms, heavy machine guns, snipers, automatic grenade launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars, armoured personnel carriers and armoured fighting vehicles. In the self-proclaimed Luhansk People's Republic, local officials reported seven Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire. The Ukrainian military used small arms, heavy machine guns, automatic grenade launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars and BMP-1 armoured vehicles to engage pro-Russian positions at Veselehorivka, Kalynove, Donetskyi, Nyzhnie Lozove and Zholobok.\n\nThe press-centre of the JFO reported in the evening that as of 6:00 pm pro-Russian troops had opened fire on Ukrainian troops on 13 occasions, no casualties were reported. In the area of Donetsk city, the Ukrainian stronghold of Avdiivka became the target of small arms, heavy machine guns, rocket launchers and 82 mm mortars. Rebel forces used infantry weapons and grenade launchers to target Ukrainian troops at Marinka, Krasnohorivka, Kamianka, Pisky, Opytne, Pisky and Nevelske. In the region of Mariupol, Pavlopil, Lebedinske and Shyrokyne were fired at from small arms, heavy machine guns and rocket launchers. Antitank guided missiles were launched at Vodiane. In the northern sector of the demarcation line, Prychepylivka was pounded by 122 mm self-propelled artillery, while Novozvanivka was hit by 82 mm mortar volleys. The separatists attacked Novhorodske with rocket launchers, antiaircraft guns and 82 mm mortars. Small arms fire was reported at Stanytsia Luhanska. By the end of the day the number of registered ceasefire violations had risen to 47, one Ukrainian serviceman was wounded and one was injured. Pro-Russian authorities told the press that Ukrainian forces broke the ceasefire several times throughout the day. Dokuchaievsk, Spartak, Yakovliivka and Kruta Balka, in the outskirts of Donetsk city, Ozeryanivka and Zaitseve, in the area of Horlivka, and Petrovske in the region of Mariupol, came under attack. In the main incidents, Ukrainian tanks engaged pro-Russian positions at Dokuchaievsk, which also became the target of 120 mm mortars. Ozeryanivka was attacked by BTR-80 armoured personnel carriers and BMP-2 armoured vehicles from Troitske, while Yakovliivka was shelled with automatic grenade launchers. BMP-2 armoured vehicles also opened fire at Petrovske and Spartak. Heavy fire destroyed two civilian residences at Zaitseve.\n\nThe spokesman of the Ukrainian operational headquarters reported in the morning that pro-Russian forces had opened fire on 47 occasions on Ukrainian positions the previous day (including on 42 occasions in Donetsk region and on 5 occasions in Luhansk region); the fire was returned on 19 occasions. By 9:00 am of 30 April 9 ceasefire violations were registered. The spokesman of the Ministry of Defence confirmed at noon that one Ukrainian serviceman was wounded in action and another injured in the Donbass region on 29 April. Pro-Russian officials at Donetsk city reported 16 Ukrainian violations of the ceasefire in ten locations using small arms, heavy machine guns, automatic grenade launchers, 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles, 82 mm mortars, 120 mm mortars, armoured personnel carriers and armoured fighting vehicles. One civilian resident was wounded at Olenivka. According to local sources, the Ukrainian military broke the ceasefire four times within the borders of the self-styled Luhansk People's Republic. Ukrainian forces engaged pro-Russian positions at Prishib, Lozove, Kalynove and Lohvynove employing small arms, 73 mm rifles and 82 mm mortars.\n\nAccording to the Joint Forces Operation (JFO) headquarters, pro-Russian forces opened fire on Ukrainian positions on multiple occasions throughout the day. In the outskirts of Donetsk city, Novotroitske and Butivka coal mine were shelled with 120 mm mortars; 82 mm mortar volleys struck Verkhnyotoretske and Butivka. Pro-Russian armoured fighting vehicles, supported by small arms, heavy machine guns and rocket launchers engaged Ukrainian redoubts at Kamianka, Krasnohorivka, Avdiivka, Marinka, Verkhnyotoretske, Opytne and Butivka mining complex. In the region of Mariupol, Lebedinske and Talakivka came under 82 mm mortars. Vodiane, Pyshchevik, Lebedinske, Hnutove Pavlopil, Shyrokyne and Taramchik were attacked with infantry weapons, grenade launchers and armoured fighting vehicles. in the northern sector of the demarcation line, armoured fighting vehicles opened fire on Ukrainian forces at Luhanske, Valuiske, Novhorodske and Troitske supported by infantry weapons and rocket launchers. Pro-Russian authorities at Donetsk city reported a number of Ukrainian violations of the truce by evening. The Ukrainian military targeted Dokuchaievsk, Spartak, Vasiliivka, Volvo Center, Donetsk airport and Mykhailivka, in the surroundings of Donetsk city, Ozeryanivka, Zaitseve and Shyroka Balka, in the area of Horlivka, and in the region of Mariupol, Sakhanka, Uzhivka, Bezimenne and Pikuzy. In the main incidents, Dokuchaievsk and Bezimenne were hit by 82 mm and 120 mm mortar rounds, while 120 mm mortar volleys landed in Shyroka Balka and Donetsk airport. Rebel forces also fired 82 mm mortars at Spartak. BTR-80 armoured personnel carriers from Verkhnyotoretske attacked Mikhaylivka, and 73 mm antitank recoilless rifles were fired several times at pro-Russian positions around Pikuzy. Small arms, heavy machine guns and automatic grenade launchers were widely used elsewhere.\n\nThe President of Ukraine signed a decree on ending the ATO that started in April 2014. The US State Department meanwhile confirmed the delivery of FGM-148 Javelin antitank missiles to the Ukrainian army. The first batch of missiles had already been handed over in December 2017.\n\n"}
