{"id": "38534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38534", "title": "Adoption", "text": "Adoption\n\nAdoption is a process whereby a person assumes the parenting of another, usually a child, from that person's biological or legal parent or parents, and, in so doing, permanently transfers all rights and responsibilities, along with filiation, from the biological parent or parents.\n\nUnlike guardianship or other systems designed for the care of the young, adoption is intended to effect a permanent change in status and as such requires societal recognition, either through legal or religious sanction. Historically, some societies have enacted specific laws governing adoption; where others have tried to achieve adoption through less formal means, notably via contracts that specified inheritance rights and parental responsibilities without an accompanying transfer of filiation. Modern systems of adoption, arising in the 20th century, tend to be governed by comprehensive statutes and regulations.\n\n\nWhile the modern form of adoption emerged in the United States, forms of the practice appeared throughout history. The Code of Hammurabi, for example, details the rights of adopters and the responsibilities of adopted individuals at length. The practice of adoption in ancient Rome is well documented in the Codex Justinianus.\n\nMarkedly different from the modern period, ancient adoption practices put emphasis on the political and economic interests of the adopter, providing a legal tool that strengthened political ties between wealthy families and created male heirs to manage estates. The use of adoption by the aristocracy is well documented; many of Rome's emperors were adopted sons. Adrogation was a kind of Roman adoption which required the adrogator to be at least 60 years old.\n\nInfant adoption during Antiquity appears rare. Abandoned children were often picked up for slavery and composed a significant percentage of the Empire's slave supply. Roman legal records indicate that foundlings were occasionally taken in by families and raised as a son or daughter. Although not normally adopted under Roman Law, the children, called \"alumni\", were reared in an arrangement similar to guardianship, being considered the property of the father who abandoned them.\n\nOther ancient civilizations, notably India and China, used some form of adoption as well. Evidence suggests the goal of this practice was to ensure the continuity of cultural and religious practices; in contrast to the Western idea of extending family lines. In ancient India, secondary sonship, clearly denounced by the Rigveda, continued, in a limited and highly ritualistic form, so that an adopter might have the necessary funerary rites performed by a son. China had a similar idea of adoption with males adopted solely to perform the duties of ancestor worship.\n\nThe practice of adopting the children of family members and close friends was common among the cultures of Polynesia including Hawaii where the custom was referred to as \"hānai\".\n\nThe nobility of the Germanic, Celtic, and Slavic cultures that dominated Europe after the decline of the Roman Empire denounced the practice of adoption. In medieval society, bloodlines were paramount; a ruling dynasty lacking a \"natural-born\" heir apparent was replaced, a stark contrast to Roman traditions. The evolution of European law reflects this aversion to adoption. English Common Law, for instance, did not permit adoption since it contradicted the customary rules of inheritance. In the same vein, France's Napoleonic Code made adoption difficult, requiring adopters to be over the age of 50, sterile, older than the adopted person by at least 15 years, and to have fostered the adoptee for at least six years. Some adoptions continued to occur, however, but became informal, based on ad hoc contracts. For example, in the year 737, in a charter from the town of Lucca, three adoptees were made heirs to an estate. Like other contemporary arrangements, the agreement stressed the responsibility of the adopted rather than adopter, focusing on the fact that, under the contract, the adoptive father was meant to be cared for in his old age; an idea that is similar to the conceptions of adoption under Roman law.\n\nEurope's cultural makeover marked a period of significant innovation for adoption. Without support from the nobility, the practice gradually shifted toward abandoned children. Abandonment levels rose with the fall of the empire and many of the foundlings were left on the doorstep of the Church. Initially, the clergy reacted by drafting rules to govern the exposing, selling, and rearing of abandoned children. The Church's innovation, however, was the practice of oblation, whereby children were dedicated to lay life within monastic institutions and reared within a monastery. This created the first system in European history in which abandoned children did not have legal, social, or moral disadvantages. As a result, many of Europe's abandoned and orphaned children became alumni of the Church, which in turn took the role of adopter. Oblation marks the beginning of a shift toward institutionalization, eventually bringing about the establishment of the foundling hospital and orphanage.\n\nAs the idea of institutional care gained acceptance, formal rules appeared about how to place children into families: boys could become apprenticed to an artisan and girls might be married off under the institution's authority. Institutions informally adopted out children as well, a mechanism treated as a way to obtain cheap labor, demonstrated by the fact that when the adopted died, their bodies were returned by the family to the institution for burial.\n\nThis system of apprenticeship and informal adoption extended into the 19th century, today seen as a transitional phase for adoption history. Under the direction of social welfare activists, orphan asylums began to promote adoptions based on sentiment rather than work; children were placed out under agreements to provide care for them as family members instead of under contracts for apprenticeship. The growth of this model is believed to have contributed to the enactment of the first modern adoption law in 1851 by the Commonwealth of Massachusetts, unique in that it codified the ideal of the \"best interests of the child.\" Despite its intent, though, in practice, the system operated much the same as earlier incarnations. The experience of the Boston Female Asylum (BFA) is a good example, which had up to 30% of its charges adopted out by 1888. Officials of the BFA noted that, although the asylum promoted otherwise, adoptive parents did not distinguish between indenture and adoption; \"We believe,\" the asylum officials said, \"that often, when children of a younger age are taken to be adopted, the adoption is only another name for service.\"\n\n\nThe next stage of adoption's evolution fell to the emerging nation of the United States. Rapid immigration and the American Civil War resulted in unprecedented overcrowding of orphanages and foundling homes in the mid-nineteenth century. Charles Loring Brace, a Protestant minister became appalled by the legions of homeless waifs roaming the streets of New York City. Brace considered the abandoned youth, particularly Catholics, to be the most dangerous element challenging the city's order.\n\nHis solution was outlined in \"The Best Method of Disposing of Our Pauper and Vagrant Children\" (1859) which started the Orphan Train movement. The orphan trains eventually shipped an estimated 200,000 children from the urban centers of the East to the nation's rural regions. The children were generally indentured, rather than adopted, to families who took them in. As in times past, some children were raised as members of the family while others were used as farm laborers and household servants.\n\nThe sheer size of the displacement—the largest migration of children in history—and the degree of exploitation that occurred, gave rise to new agencies and a series of laws that promoted adoption arrangements rather than indenture. The hallmark of the period is Minnesota's adoption law of 1917 which mandated investigation of all placements and limited record access to those involved in the adoption.\n\nDuring the same period, the Progressive movement swept the United States with a critical goal of ending the prevailing orphanage system. The culmination of such efforts came with the First White House Conference on the Care of Dependent Children called by President Theodore Roosevelt in 1909, where it was declared that the nuclear family represented \"the highest and finest product of civilization\" and was best able to serve as primary caretaker for the abandoned and orphaned. Anti-institutional forces gathered momentum. As late as 1923, only two percent of children without parental care were in adoptive homes, with the balance in foster arrangements and orphanages. Less than forty years later, nearly one-third were in an adoptive home.\n\nNevertheless, the popularity of eugenic ideas in America put up obstacles to the growth of adoption. There were grave concerns about the genetic quality of illegitimate and indigent children, perhaps best exemplified by the influential writings of Henry H. Goddard who protested against adopting children of unknown origin, saying,\n\nTaken together, these trends resulted in a new American model for adoption. Following its Roman predecessor, Americans severed the rights of the original parents while making adopters the new parents in the eyes of the law. Two innovations were added: 1) adoption was meant to ensure the \"best interests of the child;\" the seeds of this idea can be traced to the first American adoption law in Massachusetts, and 2) adoption became infused with secrecy, eventually resulting in the sealing of adoption and original birth records by 1945. The origin of the move toward secrecy began with Charles Loring Brace who introduced it to prevent children from the Orphan Trains from returning to or being reclaimed by their parents. Brace feared the impact of the parents' poverty, in general, and their Catholic religion, in particular, on the youth. This tradition of secrecy was carried on by the later Progressive reformers when drafting of American laws.\n\nThe number of adoptions in the United States peaked in 1970. It is uncertain what caused the subsequent decline. Likely contributing factors in the 1960s and 1970s include a decline in the fertility rate, associated with the introduction of the pill, the completion of legalization of artificial birth control methods, the introduction of federal funding to make family planning services available to the young and low income, and the legalization of abortion. In addition, the years of the late 1960s and early 1970s saw a dramatic change in society's view of illegitimacy and in the legal rights of those born outside of wedlock. In response, family preservation efforts grew so that few children born out of wedlock today are adopted. Ironically, adoption is far more visible and discussed in society today, yet it is less common.\n\nThe American model of adoption eventually proliferated globally. England and Wales established their first formal adoption law in 1926. The Netherlands passed its law in 1956. Sweden made adoptees full members of the family in 1959. West Germany enacted its first laws in 1977. Additionally, the Asian powers opened their orphanage systems to adoption, influenced as they were by Western ideas following colonial rule and military occupation. In France, local public institutions accredit candidates for adoption, who can then contact orphanages abroad, or ask for the support of NGOs. The system does not involve fees, but gives considerable power to social workers whose decisions may restrict adoption to standardized families (middle-age, medium to high income, heterosexual, Caucasian).\n\nAlthough adoption is today practiced globally, the United States has the largest number of children adopted per 100 live births. The table below provides a snapshot of Western adoption rates. Adoption in the United States still occurs at nearly three times those of its peers although the number of children awaiting adoption has held steady in recent years, hovering between 133,000 and 129,000 during the period 2002 to 2006.\n\n\"Table 2: Adoptions, Live Births, and Adoption/Live Birth Ratios are provided in the table below (alphabetical, by country) for a number of Western countries\"\n\nContemporary adoption practices can be open or closed.\n\nAdoptions can occur either between related family members, or unrelated individuals. Historically, most adoptions occurred within a family. The most recent data from the U.S. indicates about half of adoptions are currently between related individuals. A common example of this is a \"stepparent adoption\", where the new partner of a parent may legally adopt a child from the parent's previous relationship. Intra-family adoption can also occur through surrender, as a result of parental death, or when the child cannot otherwise be cared for and a family member agrees to take over.\n\nInfertility is the main reason parents seek to adopt children they are not related to. One study shows this accounted for 80% of unrelated infant adoptions and half of adoptions through foster care. Estimates suggest that 11–24% of Americans who cannot conceive or carry to term attempt to build a family through adoption, and that the overall rate of ever-married American women who adopt is about 1.4%. Other reasons people adopt are numerous although not well documented. These may include wanting to cement a new family following divorce or death of one parent, compassion motivated by religious or philosophical conviction, to avoid contributing to overpopulation out of the belief that it is more responsible to care for otherwise parent-less children than to reproduce, to ensure that inheritable diseases (e.g., Tay-Sachs disease) are not passed on, and health concerns relating to pregnancy and childbirth. Although there are a range of possible reasons, the most recent study of experiences of women who adopt suggests they are most likely to be 40–44 years of age, currently married, have impaired fertility, and childless.\n\nUnrelated adoptions may occur through the following mechanisms:\n\nDisruption refers to the termination of an adoption. This includes adoptions that end prior to legal finalization and those that end after that point (in U.S. law, the latter cases are referred to as having been dissolved). The Disruption process is usually initiated by adoptive parents via a court petition and is analogous to divorce proceedings. It is a legal avenue unique to adoptive parents as disruption/dissolution does not apply to biological kin.\n\n\"Ad hoc\" studies, performed in the U.S., however, suggest that between 10 and 25 percent of adoptions disrupt before they are legally finalized and from 1 to 10 percent are dissolved after legal finalization. The wide range of values reflects the paucity of information on the subject and demographic factors such as age; it is known that older children are more prone to having their adoptions disrupted.\n\nJoint adoption by same-sex couples is legal in 26 countries, and in various sub-national territories. LGBT adoption may also be in the form of step-child adoption, wherein one partner in a same-sex couple adopts the biological child of the other partner.\n\nThe biological relationship between a parent and child is important, and the separation of the two has led to concerns about adoption. The traditional view of adoptive parenting received empirical support from a Princeton University study of 6,000 adoptive, step, and foster families in the United States and South Africa from 1968 to 1985; the study indicated that food expenditures in households with mothers of non-biological children (when controlled for income, household size, hours worked, age, etc.) were significantly less for adoptees, step-children, and foster children, causing the researchers to speculate that, instinctively, people are less interested in sustaining the genetic lines of others. This theory is supported in another more qualitative study where in adoptive relationships marked by sameness in likes, personality, and appearance, both adult adoptees and adoptive parents report being happier with the adoption.\n\nOther studies provide evidence that adoptive relationships can form along other lines. A study evaluating the level of parental investment indicates strength in adoptive families, suggesting that parents who adopt invest more time in their children than other parents and concludes, \"...adoptive parents enrich their children's lives to compensate for the lack of biological ties and the extra challenges of adoption.\" Another recent study found that adoptive families invested more heavily in their adopted children, for example, by providing further education and financial support. Noting that adoptees seemed to be more likely to experience problems such as drug addiction, the study speculated that adoptive parents might invest more in adoptees not because they favor them, but because they are more likely than genetic children to need the help.\n\nPsychologists' findings regarding the importance of early mother-infant bonding created some concern about whether parents who adopt older infants or toddlers after birth have missed some crucial period for the child's development. However, research on The Mental and Social Life of Babies suggested that the \"parent-infant system,\" rather than a bond between biologically related individuals, is an evolved fit between innate behavior patterns of all human infants and equally evolved responses of human adults to those infant behaviors. Thus nature \"ensures some initial flexibility with respect to the particular adults who take on the parental role.\"\n\nBeyond the foundational issues, the unique questions posed for adoptive parents are varied. They include how to respond to stereotypes, answering questions about heritage, and how best to maintain connections with biological kin when in an open adoption. One author suggests a common question adoptive parents have is: \"Will we love the child even though he/she is not our biological child?\" A specific concern for many parents is accommodating an adoptee in the classroom. Familiar lessons like \"draw your family tree\" or \"trace your eye color back through your parents and grandparents to see where your genes come from\" could be hurtful to children who were adopted and do not know this biological information. Numerous suggestions have been made to substitute new lessons, e.g., focusing on \"family orchards.\"\n\nAdopting older children presents other parenting issues. Some children from foster care have histories of maltreatment, such as physical and psychological neglect, physical abuse, and sexual abuse, and are at risk of developing psychiatric problems. Such children are at risk of developing a disorganized attachment. Studies by Cicchetti et al. (1990, 1995) found that 80% of abused and maltreated infants in their sample exhibited disorganized attachment styles.\nDisorganized attachment is associated with a number of developmental problems, including dissociative symptoms, as well as depressive, anxiety, and acting-out symptoms. \"Attachment is an active process- it can be secure or insecure, maladaptive or productive.\" In the UK some adoptions fail because the adoptive parents do not get sufficient support to deal with difficult, traumatized children. This is a false economy as local authority care for these children is extremely expensive.\n\nConcerning developmental milestones, studies from the Colorado Adoption Project examined genetic influences on adoptee maturation, concluding that cognitive abilities of adoptees reflect those of their adoptive parents in early childhood but show little similarity by adolescence, resembling instead those of their biological parents and to the same extent as peers in non-adoptive families.\n\nSimilar mechanisms appear to be at work in the physical development of adoptees. Danish and American researchers conducting studies on the genetic contribution to body mass index found correlations between an adoptee's weight class and his biological parents' BMI while finding no relationship with the adoptive family environment. Moreover, about one-half of inter-individual differences were due to individual non-shared influences.\n\nThese differences in development appear to play out in the way young adoptees deal with major life events. In the case of parental divorce, adoptees have been found to respond differently from children who have not been adopted. While the general population experienced more behavioral problems, substance use, lower school achievement, and impaired social competence after parental divorce, the adoptee population appeared to be unaffected in terms of their outside relationships, specifically in their school or social abilities.\n\nSeveral factors affect the decision to release or raise the child. White adolescents tend to give up their babies to non-relatives, whereas black adolescents are more likely to receive support from their own community in raising the child and also in the form of informal adoption by relatives. Studies by Leynes and by Festinger and Young, Berkman, and Rehr found that for pregnant adolescents, the decision to release the child for adoption depended on the attitude toward adoption held by the adolescent's mother. Another study found that pregnant adolescents whose mothers had a higher level of education were more likely to release their babies for adoption. Research suggests that women who choose to release their babies for adoption are more likely to be younger, enrolled in school, and have lived in a two-parent household at age 10, than those who kept and raised their babies.\n\nThere is limited research on the consequences of adoption for the original parents, and the findings have been mixed. One study found that those who released their babies for adoption were less comfortable with their decision than those who kept their babies. However, levels of comfort over both groups were high, and those who released their child were similar to those who kept their child in ratings of life satisfaction, relationship satisfaction, and positive future outlook for schooling, employment, finances, and marriage. Subsequent research found that adolescent mothers who chose to release their babies for adoption were more likely to experience feelings of sorrow and regret over their decision than those who kept their babies. However, these feelings decreased significantly from one year after birth to the end of the second year.\n\nMore recent research found that in a sample of mothers who had released their children for adoption four to 12 years prior, every participant had frequent thoughts of their lost child. For most, thoughts were both negative and positive in that they produced both feelings of sadness and joy. Those who experienced the greatest portion of positive thoughts were those who had open, rather than closed or time-limited mediated adoptions.\n\nIn another study that compared mothers who released their children to those who raised them, mothers who released their children were more likely to delay their next pregnancy, to delay marriage, and to complete job training. However, both groups reached lower levels of education than their peers who were never pregnant. Another study found similar consequences for choosing to release a child for adoption. Adolescent mothers who released their children were more likely to reach a higher level of education and to be employed than those who kept their children. They also waited longer before having their next child. Most of the research that exists on adoption effects on the birth parents was conducted with samples of adolescents, or with women who were adolescents when carrying their babies—little data exists for birth parents from other populations. Furthermore, there is a lack of longitudinal data that may elucidate long-term social and psychological consequences for birth parents who choose to place their children for adoption.\n\nPrevious research on adoption has led to assumptions that indicate that there is a heightened risk in terms of psychological development and social relationships for adoptees. Yet, such assumptions have been clarified as flawed due to methodological failures. But more recent studies have been supportive in indicating more accurate information and results about the similarities, differences and overall lifestyles of adoptees.\n\nEvidence about the development of adoptees can be supported in newer studies. It can be said that adoptees, in some respect, tend to develop differently from the general population. This can be seen in many aspects of life, but usually can be found as a greater risk around the time of adolescence. For example, it has been found that many adoptees experience difficulty in establishing a sense of identity.\n\nThere are many ways in which the concept of identity can be defined. It is true in all cases that identity construction is an ongoing process of development, change and maintenance of identifying with the self. Research has shown that adolescence is a time of identity progression rather than regression. One's identity tends to lack stability in the beginning years of life but gains a more stable sense in later periods of childhood and adolescence. Typically associated with a time of experimentation, there are endless factors that go into the construction of one's identity. As well as being many factors, there are many types of identities one can associate with. Some categories of identity include gender, sexuality, class, racial and religious, etc. For transracial and international adoptees, tension is generally found in the categories of racial, ethnic and national identification. Because of this, the strength and functionality of family relationships play a huge role in its development and outcome of identity construction. Transracial and transnational adoptees tend to develop feelings of a lack of acceptance because of such racial, ethnic, and cultural differences. Therefore, exposing transracial and transnational adoptees to their \"cultures of origin\" is important in order to better develop a sense of identity and appreciation for cultural diversity. Identity construction and reconstruction for transnational adoptees the instant they are adopted. For example, based upon specific laws and regulations of the United States, the Child Citizen Act of 2000 makes sure to grant immediate U.S. citizenship to adoptees.\n\nIdentity is defined both by what one is and what one is not. Adoptees born into one family lose an identity and then borrow one from the adopting family.\nThe formation of identity is a complicated process and there are many factors that affect its outcome. From a perspective of looking at issues in adoption circumstances, the people involved and affected by adoption (the biological parent, the adoptive parent and the adoptee) can be known as the \"triad members and state\".\nAdoption may threaten triad members' sense of identity. Triad members often express feelings related to confused identity and identity crises because of differences between the triad relationships.\nAdoption, for some, precludes a complete or integrated sense of self. Triad members may experience themselves as incomplete, deficient, or unfinished. They state that they lack feelings of well-being, integration, or solidity associated with a fully developed identity.\n\nFamily plays a vital role in identity formation. This is not only true in childhood but also in adolescence. Identity (gender/sexual/ethnic/religious/family) is still forming during adolescence and family holds a vital key to this.\nThe research seems to be unanimous; a stable, secure, loving, honest and supportive family in which all members feel safe to explore their identity is necessary for the formation of a sound identity. Transracial and International adoptions are some factors that play a significant role in the identity construction of adoptees. Many tensions arise from relationships built between the adoptee(s) and their family. These include being \"different\" from the parent(s), developing a positive racial identity, and dealing with racial/ethnic discrimination. It has been found that multicultural and transnational youth tend to identify with their parents origin of culture and ethnicity rather than their residing location, yet it is sometimes hard to balance an identity between the two because school environments tend to lack diversity and acknowledgment regarding such topics. These tensions also tend to create questions for the adoptee, as well as the family, to contemplate. Some common questions include what will happen if the family is more naïve to the ways of socially constructed life? Will tensions arise if this is the case? What if the very people that are supposed to be modeling a sound identity are in fact riddled with insecurities? Ginni Snodgrass answers these questions in the following way.\nThe secrecy in an adoptive family and the denial that the adoptive family is different builds dysfunction into it. \"... social workers and insecure adoptive parents have structured a family relationship that is based on dishonesty, evasions and exploitation. To believe that good relationships will develop on such a foundation is psychologically unsound\" (Lawrence). Secrecy erects barriers to forming a healthy identity.\n\nThe research says that the dysfunction, untruths and evasiveness that can be present in adoptive families not only makes identity formation impossible, but also directly works against it. What effect on identity formation is present if the adoptee knows they are adopted but has no information about their biological parents? Silverstein and Kaplan's research states that adoptees lacking medical, genetic, religious, and historical information are plagued by questions such as \"Who am I?\" \"Why was I born?\" \"What is my purpose?\" This lack of identity may lead adoptees, particularly in adolescent years, to seek out ways to belong in a more extreme fashion than many of their non-adopted peers. Adolescent adoptees are overrepresented among those who join sub-cultures, run away, become pregnant, or totally reject their families.\n\nConcerning developmental milestones, studies from the Colorado Adoption Project examined genetic influences on adoptee maturation, concluding that cognitive abilities of adoptees reflect those of their adoptive parents in early childhood but show little similarity by adolescence, resembling instead those of their biological parents and to the same extent as peers in non-adoptive families.\n\nSimilar mechanisms appear to be at work in the physical development of adoptees. Danish and American researchers conducting studies on the genetic contribution to body mass index found correlations between an adoptee's weight class and his biological parents' BMI while finding no relationship with the adoptive family environment. Moreover, about one-half of inter-individual differences were due to individual non-shared influences.\n\nThese differences in development appear to play out in the way young adoptees deal with major life events. In the case of parental divorce, adoptees have been found to respond differently from children who have not been adopted. While the general population experienced more behavioral problems, substance use, lower school achievement, and impaired social competence after parental divorce, the adoptee population appeared to be unaffected in terms of their outside relationships, specifically in their school or social abilities.\n\nThe adoptee population does, however, seem to be more at risk for certain behavioral issues. Researchers from the University of Minnesota studied adolescents who had been adopted and found that adoptees were twice as likely as non-adopted people to suffer from oppositional defiant disorder and attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (with an 8% rate in the general population). Suicide risks were also significantly greater than the general population. Swedish researchers found both international and domestic adoptees undertook suicide at much higher rates than non-adopted peers; with international adoptees and female international adoptees, in particular, at highest risk.\n\nNevertheless, work on adult adoptees has found that the additional risks faced by adoptees are largely confined to adolescence. Young adult adoptees were shown to be alike with adults from biological families and scored better than adults raised in alternative family types including single parent and step-families. Moreover, while adult adoptees showed more variability than their non-adopted peers on a range of psychosocial measures, adult adoptees exhibited more similarities than differences with adults who had not been adopted. There have been many cases of remediation or the reversibility of early trauma. For example, in one of the earliest studies conducted, Professor Goldfarb in England concluded that some children adjust well socially and emotionally despite their negative experiences of institutional deprivation in early childhood. Other researchers also found that prolonged institutionalization does not necessarily lead to emotional problems or character defects in all children. This suggests that there will always be some children who fare well, who are resilient, regardless of their experiences in early childhood. Furthermore, much of the research on psychological outcomes for adoptees draws from clinical populations. This suggests that conclusions such that adoptees are more likely to have behavioral problems such as ODD and ADHD may be biased. Since the proportion of adoptees that seek mental health treatment is small, psychological outcomes for adoptees compared to those for the general population are more similar than some researchers propose.\n\nIn Western culture, many see that the common image of a family being that of a heterosexual couple with biological children. This idea places alternative family forms outside the norm. As a consequence, research indicates, disparaging views of adoptive families exist, along with doubts concerning the strength of their family bonds.\n\nThe most recent adoption attitudes survey completed by the Evan Donaldson Institute provides further evidence of this stigma. Nearly one-third of the surveyed population believed adoptees are less-well adjusted, more prone to medical issues, and predisposed to drug and alcohol problems. Additionally, 40–45% thought adoptees were more likely to have behavior problems and trouble at school. In contrast, the same study indicated adoptive parents were viewed favorably, with nearly 90% describing them as \"lucky, advantaged, and unselfish.\"\n\nThe majority of people state that their primary source of information about adoption comes from friends and family and the news media. Nevertheless, most people report the media provides them a favorable view of adoption; 72% indicated receiving positive impressions. There is, however, still substantial criticism of the media's adoption coverage. Some adoption blogs, for example, criticized \"Meet the Robinsons\" for using outdated orphanage imagery as did advocacy non-profit The Evan B. Donaldson Adoption Institute.\n\nThe stigmas associated with adoption are amplified for children in foster care. Negative perceptions result in the belief that such children are so troubled it would be impossible to adopt them and create \"normal\" families. A 2004 report from the Pew Commission on Children in Foster Care has shown that the number of children waiting in foster care doubled since the 1980s and now remains steady at about a half-million a year.\"\n\nAdoption practices have changed significantly over the course of the 20th century, with each new movement labeled, in some way, as reform. Beginning in the 1970s, efforts to improve adoption became associated with opening records and encouraging family preservation. These ideas arose from suggestions that the secrecy inherent in modern adoption may influence the process of forming an identity, create confusion regarding genealogy, and provide little in the way of medical history.\n\nFamily preservation: As concerns over illegitimacy began to decline in the early 1970s, social-welfare agencies began to emphasize that, if possible, mothers and children should be kept together. In the U.S., this was clearly illustrated by the shift in policy of the New York Foundling Home, an adoption-institution that is among the country's oldest and one that had pioneered sealed records. It established three new principles including \"to prevent placements of children...,\" reflecting the belief that children would be better served by staying with their biological families, a striking shift in policy that remains in force today.\n\nOpen records: Movements to unseal adoption records for adopted citizens proliferated along with increased acceptance of illegitimacy. In the United States, Jean Paton founded Orphan Voyage in 1954, and Florence Fisher founded the Adoptees' Liberty Movement Association (ALMA) in 1971, calling sealed records \"an affront to human dignity.\". While in 1975, Emma May Vilardi created the first mutual-consent registry, the International Soundex Reunion Registry (ISRR), allowing those separated by adoption to locate one another. and Lee Campbell and other birthmothers established CUB (Concerned United Birthparents). Similar ideas were taking hold globally with grass-roots organizations like Parent Finders in Canada and Jigsaw in Australia. In 1975, England and Wales opened records on moral grounds.\n\nBy 1979, representatives of 32 organizations from 33 states, Canada and Mexico gathered in Washington, DC to establish the American Adoption Congress (AAC) passing a unanimous resolution: \"Open Records complete with all identifying information for all members of the adoption triad, birthparents, adoptive parents and adoptee at the adoptee's age of majority (18 or 19, depending on state) or earlier if all members of the triad agree.\" Later years saw the evolution of more militant organizations such as Bastard Nation (founded in 1996), groups that helped overturn sealed records in Alabama, Delaware, New Hampshire, Oregon, Tennessee, and Maine. Simultaneously, groups such as Origins USA (founded in 1997) started to actively speak about family preservation and the rights of mothers. The intellectual tone of these recent reform movements was influenced by the publishing of \"The Primal Wound\" by Nancy Verrier. \"Primal wound\" is described as the \"devastation which the infant feels because of separation from its birth mother. It is the deep and consequential feeling of abandonment which the baby adoptee feels after the adoption and which may continue for the rest of his life.\"\n\nEstimates for the extent of search behavior by adoptees have proven elusive; studies show significant variation. In part, the problem stems from the small adoptee population which makes random surveying difficult, if not impossible.\n\nNevertheless, some indication of the level of search interest by adoptees can be gleaned from the case of England and Wales which opened adoptees' birth records in 1975. The UK Office for National Statistics has projected that 33% of all adoptees would eventually request a copy of their original birth records, exceeding original forecasts made in 1975 when it was believed that only a small fraction of the adoptee population would request their records. The projection is known to underestimate the true search rate, however, since many adoptees of the era get their birth records by other means.\n\nThe research literature states adoptees give four reasons for desiring reunion: 1) they wish for a more complete genealogy, 2) they are curious about events leading to their conception, birth, and relinquishment, 3) they hope to pass on information to their children, and 4) they have a need for a detailed biological background, including medical information. It is speculated by adoption researchers, however, that the reasons given are incomplete: although such information could be communicated by a third-party, interviews with adoptees, who sought reunion, found they expressed a need to actually meet biological relations.\n\nIt appears the desire for reunion is linked to the adoptee's interaction with and acceptance within the community. Internally focused theories suggest some adoptees possess ambiguities in their sense of self, impairing their ability to present a consistent identity. Reunion helps resolve the lack of self-knowledge.\n\nExternally focused theories, in contrast, suggest that reunion is a way for adoptees to overcome social stigma. First proposed by Goffman, the theory has four parts: 1) adoptees perceive the absence of biological ties as distinguishing their adoptive family from others, 2) this understanding is strengthened by experiences where non-adoptees suggest adoptive ties are weaker than blood ties, 3) together, these factors engender, in some adoptees, a sense of social exclusion, and 4) these adoptees react by searching for a blood tie that reinforces their membership in the community. The externally focused rationale for reunion suggests adoptees may be well adjusted and happy within their adoptive families, but will search as an attempt to resolve experiences of social stigma.\n\nSome adoptees reject the idea of reunion. It is unclear, though, what differentiates adoptees who search from those who do not. One paper summarizes the research, stating, \"...attempts to draw distinctions between the searcher and non-searcher are no more conclusive or generalizable than attempts to substantiate...differences between adoptees and nonadoptees.\"\n\nIn sum, reunions can bring a variety of issues for adoptees and parents. Nevertheless, most reunion results appear to be positive. In the largest study to date (based on the responses of 1,007 adoptees and relinquishing parents), 90% responded that reunion was a beneficial experience. This does not, however, imply ongoing relationships were formed between adoptee and parent nor that this was the goal.\n\nThe book \"Adoption Detective: Memoir of an Adopted Child\" by Judith and Martin Land provides insight into the mind of an adoptee from childhood through to adulthood and the emotions invoked when reunification with their birth mothers is desired.\n\nReform and family preservation efforts have also been strongly associated with the perceived misuse of adoption. In some cases, parents' rights have been terminated when their ethnic or socio-economic group has been deemed unfit by society. Some of these practices were generally accepted but have later been considered abusive; others were uncontroversially reprehensible.\n\nForced adoption based on ethnicity occurred during World War II. In German occupied Poland, it is estimated that 200,000 Polish children with purportedly Aryan traits were removed from their families and given to German or Austrian couples, and only 25,000 returned to their families after the war.\n\nThe Stolen Generation of Aboriginal people in Australia were affected by similar policies, as were Native Americans in the United States and First Nations of Canada.\n\nThese practices have become significant social and political issues in recent years, and in many cases the policies have changed. The United States, for example, now has the 1978 Indian Child Welfare Act, which allows the tribe and family of a Native American child to be involved in adoption decisions, with preference being given to adoption within the child's tribe.\n\nFrom the 1950s through the 1970s, a period called the baby scoop era, adoption practices that involved coercion were directed against unwed mothers, as described for the US in \"The Girls Who Went Away.\"\n\nMore recently the military dictatorship in Argentina from 1976 to 1983 is known to have given hundreds of babies born to women captives who were then murdered to be brought up by military families.\n\nIn Spain under Francisco Franco’s 1939-75 dictatorship the newborns of some left-wing opponents of the regime, or unmarried or poor couples, were removed from their mothers and adopted. New mothers were frequently told their babies had died suddenly after birth and the hospital had taken care of their burials, when in fact they were given or sold to another family. It is believed that up to 300,000 babies were involved. These system – which allegedly involved a vast network of doctors, nurses, nuns and priests – outlived Franco’s death in 1975 and carried on as an illegal baby trafficking network until 1987 when a new law regulating adoption was introduced.\n\nThe language of adoption is changing and evolving, and since the 1970s has been a controversial issue tied closely to adoption reform efforts. The controversy arises over the use of terms which, while designed to be more appealing or less offensive to some persons affected by adoption, may simultaneously cause offense or insult to others. This controversy illustrates the problems in adoption, as well as the fact that coining new words and phrases to describe ancient social practices will not necessarily alter the feelings and experiences of those affected by them. Two of the contrasting sets of terms are commonly referred to as positive adoption language (PAL) (sometimes called \"respectful adoption language (RAL)\"), and honest adoption language (HAL).\n\nIn the 1970s, as adoption search and support organizations developed, there were challenges to the language in common use at the time. As books like \"Adoption Triangle\" by Sorosky, Pannor and Baran were published, and support groups formed like CUB (Concerned United Birthparents), a major shift from \"natural parent\" to \"birthparent\" occurred. Along with the change in times and social attitudes came additional examination of the language used in adoption.\n\nSocial workers and other professionals in the field of adoption began changing terms of use to reflect what was being expressed by the parties involved. In 1979, Marietta Spencer wrote \"The Terminology of Adoption\" for The Child Welfare League of America (CWLA), which was the basis for her later work \"Constructive Adoption Terminology\". This influenced Pat Johnston's \"Positive Adoption Language\" (PAL) and \"Respectful Adoption Language\" (RAL). The terms contained in \"Positive Adoption Language\" include the terms \"birth mother\" (to replace the terms \"natural mother\" and \"real mother\"), and \"placing\" (to replace the term \"surrender\"). These kinds of recommendations encouraged people to be more aware of their use of adoption terminology.\n\n\"Honest Adoption Language\" refers to a set of terms that proponents say reflect the point of view that: (1) family relationships (social, emotional, psychological or physical) that existed prior to the legal adoption often continue past this point or endure in some form despite long periods of separation, and that (2) mothers who have \"voluntarily surrendered\" children to adoption (as opposed to involuntary terminations through court-authorized child-welfare proceedings) seldom view it as a choice that was freely made, but instead describe scenarios of powerlessness, lack of resources, and overall lack of choice. It also reflects the point of view that the term \"birth mother\" is derogatory in implying that the woman has ceased being a mother after the physical act of giving birth. Proponents of HAL liken this to the mother being treated as a \"breeder\" or \"incubator\". Terms included in HAL include terms that were used before PAL, including \"natural mother,\" \"first mother,\" and \"surrendered for adoption.\"\n\nThere are supporters of various lists, developed over many decades, and there are persons who find them lacking, created to support an agenda, or furthering division. All terminology can be used to demean or diminish, uplift or embrace. In addressing the linguistic problem of naming, Edna Andrews says that using \"inclusive\" and \"neutral\" language is based upon the concept that \"language represents thought, and may even control thought.\"\n\nAdvocates of inclusive language defend it as inoffensive-language usage whose goal is multi-fold:\n\n\nA common problem is that terms chosen by an identity group, as acceptable descriptors of themselves, can be used in negative ways by detractors. This compromises the integrity of the language and turns what was intended to be positive into negative or vice versa, thus often devaluing acceptability, meaning and use.\n\nLanguage at its best honors the self-referencing choices of the persons involved, uses inclusive terms and phrases, and is sensitive to the feelings of the primary parties. Language evolves with social attitudes and experiences.\n\nAttitudes and laws regarding adoption vary greatly. Whereas all cultures make arrangements whereby children whose birth parents are unavailable to rear them can be brought up by others, not all cultures have the concept of adoption, that is treating unrelated children as equivalent to biological children of the adoptive parents. Under Islamic Law, for example, adopted children must keep their original surname to be identified with blood relations, and, traditionally, women wear a hijab in the presence of males in their adoptive households. In Egypt, these cultural distinctions have led to making adoption illegal.\n\nAs a reaction against the bans and hurdles affecting international adoption, scholars Elizabeth Bartholet and Paulo Barrozo claim that every child has a right to a family as a matter of basic human rights. This claim devalues heritage or \"cultural\" claims and emphasizes the child's existence as a human being rather than a \"property\" of specific nations or, for example, abusive caregivers.\n\nIn some countries, such as the United States, \"Homecoming Day\" is the day when an adoptee is officially united with their new adoptive family. In some adoptive families, this day marks an especially important event and is celebrated annually from thereafter. The term Gotcha Day is also used to refer to this day. Many adopted people and birth parents find this term to be offensive.\n\n1.Barbara Melosh, the American Way of Adoption page 10\n\n"}
{"id": "4177035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4177035", "title": "Antarctic Conservation Act", "text": "Antarctic Conservation Act\n\nThe Antarctic Conservation Act, enacted in 1978 by the 95th United States Congress (), and amended by , is a United States federal law that addresses the issue of environmental conservation on the continent of Antarctica. The Departments of the Treasury, Interior and Commerce are responsible for the Act's enforcement.\n\nThe Act can be found in .\n\nUntil the 1960s, few rules existed regarding activities in Antarctica. Fishing, whaling and sealing were uncontrolled, and various species were threatened with extinction. Tourists and research stations littered and polluted. In 1961 the Antarctic Treaty was established to protect the continent, and establishes major restrictions and responsibilities on visitors and uses. \n\nAs part of its responsibilities as a signatory to the Antarctic Treaty, the United States passed the Antarctic Conservation Act of 1978 to establish rules for all U.S. citizens, U.S. corporations, and certain persons who participate in U.S. government expeditions visiting or operating in Antarctica, as well as U.S. citizens who handle certain Antarctic animals and plants, and other persons handling Antarctic animals and plants while in the U.S.\n\nThe act makes it:\n“(…) unlawful, unless authorized by permit, to:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9087936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9087936", "title": "Anti-Narcotics Force", "text": "Anti-Narcotics Force\n\nThe Anti-Narcotics Force (, reporting name: \"ANF\") is a bureau of the Government of Pakistan, tasked with combating the narcotics smuggling and use within Pakistan. ANF works under umbrella of Pakistan Army and Ministry of Narcotcs Control. Due to misconception on Section 4 of ANF ACT 1997, the force's head consisted the active-duty general officer of Pakistan Army. Although the law prescribes that any competent person may be appointed as Director General. Currently a two star Army Officer, Major General Arif Malik HI(M) is deputed as Director General. The ANF also has sole responsibility for coordinating and pursuing Pakistan narcotics investigations abroad.\n\nThe superintendence of the Force is vest with the Federal Government whereas, administration of the Force is vested with the Director-General who shall exercise in respect of the Force all powers of an Inspector-General of Police under the Police Act, 1861 (V of 1861), and all other powers under the Act. In case of any officers and members from the Armed Forces, the Director-General shall have all powers conferred by or under the Pakistan Army Act, 1952 (XXXIX of 1952), the Pakistan Air Force Act, 1953 (VI op 1953), and the Pakistan Navy Ordinance, 1961 (XXXVI of 1961), respectively as an officer empowered to convene a General Court Martial. The Force consists of approximately 3100 agents across the country. \n\nThe organization has sacrificed 16 of its best enforcers including Offices, JCO's and Jawans.\n\nAnti Narcotics Force Headquarters is situated at Rawalpindi controlling its outfits through 5x Regional Headquarters i.e. North at Rawalpindi, KP at Peshawar, Punjab at Lahore, Sindh at Karachi and Balochistan at Quetta. Regional Headquarters are controlling their area of domain through their various Police Stations. There are 9x Directorates at HQ ANF:\n\nTo protect our National Security Anti Narcotics Force under the insight of Ministry of Narcotics Control, is working tirelessly in coordination with other Law Enforcement Agencies of Pakistan. Organizations with similar goals are:\n\nPakistan Narcotics Board (PNB) was set up in 1957, in the Revenue Division in order to meet Pakistan's obligations under the International Opium Convention of 1925. PNB comprised representatives from the Provincial Governments and some Federal Ministries/Divisions.\n\nPakistan Narcotics Control Board (PNCB) was established in 1973 with five Regional Directorates, in response to UN Convention on Narcotics Control, with the mandate to combat narcotics in the Country. PNCB functioned as an attached department of Ministry of Interior till 1989 with strength of 883 all ranks. Narcotics Control Division (NCD) was established in 1989 and the Board became its attached department.\n\nAnti Narcotics Task Force (ANTF) comprising 388 all ranks from Pakistan Army was established in December 1991 as an attached department of NCD.\n\nAnti Narcotics Force (ANF) was raised on 21 February 1995 by merging PNCB and ANTF.\n\nNarcotics Control Division (NCD) was declared Ministry of Narcotics Control in 2001 but it was reverted to NCD under Ministry of Interior and Narcotics Control (MOI&NC) in 2013.\n\nMinistry of Narcotics Control (MNC) Ministry of Narcotics Control was established in August 2017.\n\nThere are distinct stages for Investigating a case.\n\nAssets of the convicts in narcotics cases are confiscated in favour of Federal Government through following stages usually:\n\nAssets Investigation is conducted under relevant sections / provisions provided by the following laws:\n\nAccording to activities of smugglers and areas which facilitate their interest, the operations of the Anti Narcotics force can be divided into following two categories:\n\nTo monitor the policies of Federal Government a Policy Review Board headed by Minister for Narcotics Control comprising 14 members from relevant Federal and Provincial Ministries was set up in 1997. A separate ministry for Narcotics Control has been set up; therefore, there is a need to revise the composition of this body. Existing composition of the Policy Review Board is as follows\n\nTo make the coordinating role of the Federal Government effective and to ensure that narcotics interdiction by various law enforcement agencies proceeds under well-synchronized efforts, a Narcotics Interdiction Committee (NIC) has been set up with the following composition:\n\nAnti Norcotics Force (ANF) is responsible to perform the following\n\nSupply Reduction\n\nLimiting the smuggling trafficking and distribution of Narcotics. Coordinating eradication of opium poppy. Ensuring no heroin lab becomes functional. Inquire/Investigate assets of drug barons. Pursuing Legal cases relentlessly.\n\nDemand Reduction\n\nReducing the demand of illicit drugs through preventive education, treatment and rehabilitation as well as harm reduction programmes.\n\nCoordination Liaison at National and International Level\n\nEnhancing international co-operation in the fight against drugs and liaison with the United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime, International Narcotics Control Board, International Police, Narcotics Affairs Section (US Embassy), Drugs Enforcement Agency, Foreign Anti Narcotics Community, Drug Liaison Officers etc.\n\nNational Seizure Data– 2016 (ANF and Other Law Enforcement Agencies\n\nANF has organized a strategy which is recognized as SPEAR. The inscription details are as under:\n\nSurveillance and Intelligence Acquisition\n\nProactive Prevention and Protection\n\nEffective Enforcement\n\nAlliances, Assistance and Cooperation\n\nRehabilitation and Awareness\n\nIn order to make joint efforts for the control of drug trafficking, the agency in collaboration with Government of Pakistan has signed MoUs with 32 countries and Letters of Intent with 2 x countries. Moreover, 15 x new MoUs and revision for 5 x existing MoUs are also under process. Additionally, specific treaties have been signed with 29 x countries for extradition of convicts on certain offences including drug trafficking. Details of these agreements are as under:\n\nAfghanistan, Australia, Azerbaijan, Brazil, Brunei Darussalam, Egypt, Hellenic Republic (Greece), India, Indonesia, Iran, Italy, Kazakhstan, Kingdom of Cambodia, Kuwait, Kyrgyzstan, Lao People’s Democratic, Maldives, Nigeria, Republic of Philippines, Romania, Russia, Singapore, Sri Lanka, Syria, Tajikistan, Thailand, Turkey, UAE, United Kingdom, USA and Uzbekistan\n\nBahrain, Canada, Kenya, Libya, Malaysia, Malta, Mauritius, Nepal, Oman, Saudi Arabia, Seychelles, South Africa, Turkmenistan and Ukraine.\n\nAustralia and China\n\nArgentina, Belgium, France, Greece, Switzerland, USA, Iran, Monaco, Netherlands, Denmark, Austria, Yugoslavia, Iraq, Ecuador, Portugal, Luxembourg, Colombia, Liberia, Cuba, San Marino, Italy, Egypt, Australia, Uzbekistan, Algeria, China, UAE, Libya and Kuwait.\n\nUNODC observes 26 June as the \"INTERNATIONAL DAY AGAINST DRUG ABUSE AND ILLICIT TRAFFICKING\", established by the UN General Assembly in 1987. This observance manifests to further escalate UN's resolve in creating a drug free society by reducing both demand as well as supply of illicit drugs and increasing awareness among general masses regarding drugs abuse. Each Year UNODC selects themes for International Drug Day and launches campaigns to raise public appreciation regarding the global drug issue and its effects on complete humanity. Past Observance themes for last 5 years were:\n\nWorld Anti-Narcotics Day in Pakistan\n\nThe magnitude of drug menace not only undermines global public health, socio-economic synopsis and international stability, it has also become an issue of National Security for Pakistan. Pakistan itself is a poppy free country, but its population became a victim of regional opiate production. We are facing the brunt of trafficking of opiates and cannabis from the West, precursors from the East and Amphetamine Type Stimulants from elsewhere.\n\nEach year International Drug Day is celebrated by Anti Narcotics Force. ANF celebrate Drug Day in a wholesome manner so as to generate a strong message for the international community and domestic masses for general awareness and society's participation by introducing a variety of drug demand awareness activities in addition to drug burning ceremonies.\n\nANF is also playing a lead role in mass awareness and community participation programs to educate the people against drug abuse as Drug Demand Reduction has always been an important segment of our Strategy. ANF besides many awareness ventures runs 5 Model Addiction and Treatment Centres (MATRCs) at Rawalpindi, Peshawar, Quetta, Sukkur and Karachi and since their raising over twelve thousand patients have been treated.\n\nUnder the policy guidelines provided by NCD and with the cooperation of our allied countries, civil society and the media, ANF is doing the best it can and has had significant successes in all three regimes of operation i.e. Drug Supply Reduction, Drug Demand Reduction and International Cooperation. Men and women of ANF are fully committed to protecting our compatriots from the peril at cost of risk to their own lives.\n\n"}
{"id": "39993771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39993771", "title": "Bierut Decrees", "text": "Bierut Decrees\n\nBierut Decrees is a direct translation of a German-coined political phrase \"Bierut-Dekrete\", used only in Germany by bodies representative of the cross-border interests of the ethnic Germans expelled from Poland in the aftermath of the Second World War. The term is referring incorrectly to a series of decrees, laws and regulations enacted by the Provisional Government of National Unity between 1945 and 1946 concerning the expulsions and the property issues arising from them.\nThe \"Bierut Decrees\" are named after Bolesław Bierut, installed by the occupying Soviet forces as the leader of communist government of Poland between 1944 and his death in Moscow in 1956. The term also presents a conscious echo of the Beneš decrees which have been seen by critics as providing a blue print for the ethnic cleansing of German and Hungarian minorities from Czechoslovakia between 1945 and 1948. Bierut functioned as head of the Provisional National Council, a Soviet influenced quasi-parliament (\"Krajowa Rada Narodowa\"), from 1944 to 1947. \n\nFollowing German defeat in May 1945, political leaders from the allied powers met at Potsdam between July 17 and August 2 in order to progress agreement on the post-war settlement. Russian plans for Germany and Poland involved reducing Germany and forcible annexation of the eastern half of the prewar Poland into the outlying republics of the Soviet Union. The Soviet acquisitions first proposed in the 1939 agreement with Adolf Hitler, were defined by the terms of the secret protocol of the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact (in 1945 for most purposes the Nazi-Soviet agreement was still a secret). On the western side of Poland the border was to be moved westward at the expense of Germany, to a new frontier following the Rivers Oder and Neisse. By the time of the Potsdam conference, Poland and eastern Germany were already occupied by Russian troops. A puppet government, loyal to Moscow, was well advanced with the systematic consolidation of control over Poland as defined according to the new de facto frontiers. The westward relocation of Poland became part of the agreed approach of the Potsdam conference.\n\nIn the west of Poland, this left large numbers of German speaking people who found that their homes were now in Poland. In reality the population of military age German males was already badly depleted by losses on the Russian front, and knowledge of the approach of the Red Army from the east, together with the break down in relations between ethnic Germans and other communities as the war drew to its end, had already led many Germans in the east of the country to flee towards the west during 1944 and 1945, so that much property was already abandoned by them and in many cases expropriated on a local basis, giving aspects of the \"Bierut Decrees\" a strongly retrospective character.\n\nMost of the territory transferred to Poland from the prewar Germany in 1945 came from areas that had been part of the historic state of Prussia and subsequently of Germany since the partitions of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth. This was the case with most of Pomerania, Silesia and the eastern part of Brandenburg, including major cities in postwar Poland such as Szczecin/Stettin and Wrocław/Breslau. Danzig/Gdańsk was annexed by the Kingdom of Prussia in the second partition of Poland of 1793, and was a free city twice during more than 20 years before the conclusion of World War II. New laws were enacted by the Provisional Government of National Unity regarding German speaking people who were living in the territories defined by Poland’s new frontiers.\n\nFollowing the shifting of borders between the two countries, on 6 May 1945 the new Polish general law on abandoned and deserted property was signed, affecting the Germans in several paragraphs. The law specified two categories of assets distinct from each other. The property, which before the invasion of Poland was owned by the Germans as well as by the defectors from Poland living in Germany (the \"Volksdeutsche\"), was classified as abandoned. Meanwhile, the assets requisitioned and/or acquired by the Germans after the invasion were classified as deserted when the new laws came into effect.<ref name=\"1945/17\">Dziennik Ustaw, 1945 nr 17 poz. 96 i 97, Ustawa z dnia 6 maja 1945 r. o majątkach opuszczonych i porzuconych (6 May 1945 Decree on Properties Deserted, and Abandoned). PDF file from Internetowy System Aktow Prawnych.</ref> The law was signed by Bolesław Bierut, Edward Osóbka-Morawski, Hilary Minc and four other ministers. The subsequent decree of 8 March 1946 on formerly German property went a step further and nationalized all German assets, with the exception of property taken over by the Soviet Union already. By the same token, all laws enacted by the German occupation administration were declared legally void and invalid. The Polish law was signed by Bolesław Bierut, Edward Osóbka-Morawski, and twenty ministers.<ref name=\"1946/13\">Dz.U. 1946 nr 13 poz. 87, Dekret z dnia 8 marca 1946 r. o majątkach opuszczonych i poniemieckich (8 March 1946 Decree on Properties Deserted, and Formerly German). Internetowy System Aktow Prawnych.</ref> As a result of this new law, the German nationals who found themselves residing in Poland without active citizenship became transients; therefore, there was no need for additional law to exclude them from Poland.\n\nThe decree and law of 1945 along with the further decree of 13 September 1946 on the exclusion of hostile elements from the Polish state concerned the ethnic German minority who had lived in Poland as defined by the frontiers agreed between 1923 and 1939. In these cases the expulsion of the German portion of the population and the expropriation of their property with impunity was effected legally.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn order to make possible the acquisition of property comprising formerly German owned movable assets, I instruct that these movable assets in the recovered regions [i.e. areas of Poland previously in Germany] be listed:\n\n13 September 1946 decree concerning the exclusion of persons of German nationality from the Polish state\n"}
{"id": "3764656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3764656", "title": "Capitulation (surrender)", "text": "Capitulation (surrender)\n\nCapitulation (, a little head or division; \"capitulare\", to treat upon terms) is an agreement in time of war for the surrender to a hostile armed force of a particular body of troops, a town or a territory.\n\nIt is an ordinary incident of war, and therefore no previous instructions from the captors' government are required before finally settling the conditions of capitulation. The most usual of such conditions are freedom of religion and security of private property on one hand, and a promise not to bear arms within a certain period on the other.\n\nSuch agreements may be rashly concluded with an inferior officer, on whose authority the enemy are not, in the actual position of the war, entitled to place reliance. When an agreement is made by an officer who has not the proper authority or who has exceeded the limits of his authority, it is termed a \"sponsion\", and, to be binding, must be confirmed by express or tacit ratification.\n\nThe Hague Convention (1899) on the laws and the customs of war lays down that capitulations agreed on between the contracting parties must be in accordance with the rules of military honor. When once settled they must be observed by both the parties.\n\nIn financial markets \"capitulation\" describes \"giving up\" on the market or \"surrendering\" to bearishness (pessimism) to an extent which involves \"panic\" selling.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54236919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54236919", "title": "Center for Problem-Oriented Policing", "text": "Center for Problem-Oriented Policing\n\nThe Center for Problem-Oriented Policing is an American nonprofit organization dedicated to studying and advancing problem-oriented policing. It consists of police practitioners, universities, and scholars studying policing. It was established in 1999 at the University of Albany, with funding from the Department of Justice's Office of Community Oriented Policing Services.\n"}
{"id": "17805223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17805223", "title": "Concentrated solar power", "text": "Concentrated solar power\n\nConcentrated solar power (also called concentrating solar power, concentrated solar thermal, and CSP) systems generate solar power by using mirrors or lenses to concentrate a large area of sunlight, or solar thermal energy, onto a small area. Electricity is generated when the concentrated light is converted to heat, which drives a heat engine (usually a steam turbine) connected to an electrical power generator or powers a thermochemical reaction (experimental ). \n\nCSP had a world's total installed capacity of 4,815 MW in 2016, up from 354 MW in 2005. As of 2017, Spain accounted for almost half of the world's capacity, at 2,300 MW, making this country the world leader in CSP. The United States follows with 1,740 MW. Interest is also notable in North Africa and the Middle East, as well as India and China. The global market has been dominated by parabolic-trough plants, which accounted for 90% of CSP plants at one point. The largest CSP projects in the world are the Ivanpah Solar Power Facility (392 MW) in the United States (which uses solar power tower technology) and the Mojave Solar Project (354 MW) in the United States (which uses parabolic troughs).\n\nIn most cases, CSP technologies currently cannot compete on price with photovoltaic solar panels, which have experienced huge growth in recent years due to falling prices and much smaller operating costs. CSP generally needs large amount of direct solar radiation, and its energy generation falls dramatically with cloud cover. This is in contrast with photovoltaics, which can produce electricity also from diffuse radiation. \n\nHowever, the advantage of CSP over PV is that as a thermal technology, running a conventional thermal power block, a CSP plant can store the heat of solar energy in molten salts, which enables these plants to continue to generate electricity whenever it is needed, whether day or night. This makes CSP a dispatchable form of solar. This is particularly valuable in places where there is already a high penetration of PV, such as California because an evening peak is being exacerbated as PV ramps down at sunset. \n\nCSP has other uses than electricity. Researchers are increasingly investigating solar thermal reactors for the production of solar fuels, making solar a fully transportable form of energy in the future. These researchers use the solar heat of CSP as a catalyst for thermochemistry to break apart molecules of H2O, to create hydrogen (H2) from solar energy with no carbon emissions. By splitting both H2O and CO2, other much-used hydrocarbons for example, the jet fuel used to fly commercial airplanes, could also be created with solar energy rather than from fossil fuels. \n\nIn 2017, CSP represented less than 2% of worldwide installed capacity of solar electricity plants. However, in recent years falling prices of CSP plants are making this technology competitive with other base-load power plants using fossil and nuclear fuel even in high moisture and dusty atmosphere at sea level, such as the United Arab Emirates. Base-load CSP tariff in the extremely dry Atacama region of Chile reached below ¢5.0/kWh in 2017 auctions.\n\nA legend has it that Archimedes used a \"burning glass\" to concentrate sunlight on the invading Roman fleet and repel them from Syracuse. In 1973 a Greek scientist, Dr. Ioannis Sakkas, curious about whether Archimedes could really have destroyed the Roman fleet in 212 BC, lined up nearly 60 Greek sailors, each holding an oblong mirror tipped to catch the sun's rays and direct them at a tar-covered plywood silhouette away. The ship caught fire after a few minutes; however, historians continue to doubt the Archimedes story.\n\nIn 1866, Auguste Mouchout used a parabolic trough to producе steam for the first solar steam engine. The first patent for a solar collector was obtained by the Italian Alessandro Battaglia in Genoa, Italy, in 1886. Over the following years, invеntors such as John Ericsson and Frank Shuman developed concentrating solar-powered dеvices for irrigation, refrigеration, and locomоtion. In 1913 Shuman finished a 55 HP parabolic solar thermal energy station in Maadi, Egypt for irrigation. The first solar-power system using a mirror dish was built by Dr. R.H. Goddard, who was already well known for his research on liquid-fueled rockets and wrote an article in 1929 in which he asserted that all the previous obstacles had been addressed.\n\nProfessor Giovanni Francia (1911–1980) designed and built the first concentrated-solar plant, which entered into operation in Sant'Ilario, near Genoa, Italy in 1968. This plant had the architecture of today's power tower plants with a solar receiver in the center of a field of solar collectors. The plant was able to produce 1 MW with superheated steam at 100 bar and 500 °C. The 10 MW Solar One power tower was developed in Southern California in 1981. Solar One, was converted Solar Two in 1995, using molten salt as the receiver working fluid and as a storage medium until it was decommissioned in 1999. The parabolic-trough technology of the nearby Solar Energy Generating Systems (SEGS), begun in 1984, was more workable. The 354 MW SEGS was the largest solar power plant in the world, until 2014. \n\nNo commercial concentrated solar was constructed from 1990 when SEGS was completed until 2006 when the Compact linear Fresnel reflector system at Liddell Power Station in Australia was built. Few other plants were built with this design although the 5 MW Kimberlina Solar Thermal Energy Plant opened in 2009. \n\nIn 2007, 75MW Nevada Solar One was built, a trough design and the first large plant since SEGS. Between 2009 and 2013, Spain built over 40 parabolic trough systems, standardized in 50MW blocks. \n\nDue to the success of Solar Two, a commercial power plant, called Solar Tres Power Tower, was built in Spain in 2011, later renamed Gemasolar Thermosolar Plant. Gemasolar's results paved the way for further plants of its type. Ivanpah Solar Power Facility was constructed at the same time but without thermal storage, using natural gas to preheat water each morning.\n\nMost concentrated solar power plants use the parabolic trough design, instead of the power tower or Fresnel systems. There have also been variations of parabolic trough systems like the integrated solar combined cycle (ISCC) which combines troughs and conventional fossil fuel heat systems. \nCSP was originally treated as a competitor to photovoltaics, and Ivanpah was built without energy storage, although Solar Two had included several hours of thermal storage. By 2015, prices for photovoltaic plants had fallen and PV commercial power was selling for of recent CSP contracts. However, increasingly, CSP was being bid with 3 to 12 hours of thermal energy storage, making CSP a dispatchable form of solar energy. As such, it is increasingly seen as competing with natural gas and PV with batteries for flexible, dispatchable power.\n\nCSP is used to produce electricity (sometimes called solar thermoelectricity, usually generated through steam). Concentrated-solar technology systems use mirrors or lenses with tracking systems to focus a large area of sunlight onto a small area. The concentrated light is then used as heat or as a heat source for a conventional power plant (solar thermoelectricity). The solar concentrators used in CSP systems can often also be used to provide industrial process heating or cooling, such as in solar air conditioning.\n\nConcentrating technologies exist in four optical types, namely parabolic trough, dish, concentrating linear Fresnel reflector, and solar power tower. Parabolic trough and concentrating linear Fresnel reflectors are classified as linear focus collector types. Dish and solar tower as of the point focus type. Linear focus collectors achieve medium concentration (50 suns and over), and point focus collectors achieve high concentration (over 500 suns) factors. Although simple, these solar concentrators are quite far from the theoretical maximum concentration. For example, the parabolic-trough concentration gives about of the theoretical maximum for the design acceptance angle, that is, for the same overall tolerances for the system. Approaching the theoretical maximum may be achieved by using more elaborate concentrators based on nonimaging optics.\n\nDifferent types of concentrators produce different peak temperatures and correspondingly varying thermodynamic efficiencies, due to differences in the way that they track the sun and focus light. New innovations in CSP technology are leading systems to become more and more cost-effective.\n\nA parabolic trough consists of a linear parabolic reflector that concentrates light onto a receiver positioned along the reflector's focal line. The receiver is a tube positioned directly above the middle of the parabolic mirror and filled with a working fluid. The reflector follows the sun during the daylight hours by tracking along a single axis. A working fluid (e.g. molten salt) is heated to as it flows through the receiver and is then used as a heat source for a power generation system. Trough systems are the most developed CSP technology. The Solar Energy Generating Systems (SEGS) plants in California, the world's first commercial parabolic trough plants, Acciona's Nevada Solar One near Boulder City, Nevada, and Andasol, Europe's first commercial parabolic trough plant are representative, along with Plataforma Solar de Almería's SSPS-DCS test facilities in Spain.\n\nA solar power tower consists of an array of dual-axis tracking reflectors (heliostats) that concentrate sunlight on a central receiver atop a tower; the receiver contains a heat-transfer fluid, which can consist of water-steam or molten salt. Optically a solar power tower is the same as a circular Fresnel reflector. The working fluid in the receiver is heated to 500–1000 °C () and then used as a heat source for a power generation or energy storage system. An advantage of the solar tower is the reflectors can be adjusted instead of the whole tower. Power-tower development is less advanced than trough systems, but they offer higher efficiency and better energy storage capability.\n\nThe Solar Two in Daggett, California and the CESA-1 in Plataforma Solar de Almeria Almeria, Spain, are the most representative demonstration plants.\nThe Planta Solar 10 (PS10) in Sanlucar la Mayor, Spain, is the first commercial utility-scale solar power tower in the world.\nThe 377 MW Ivanpah Solar Power Facility, located in the Mojave Desert, is the largest CSP facility in the world, and uses three power towers. Ivanpah generated only 0.652 TWh (63%) of its energy from solar means, and the other 0.388 TWh (37%) was generated by burning Natural Gas.\nThe design encapsulates the solar thermal system within a greenhouse-like glasshouse. The glasshouse creates a protected environment to withstand the elements that can negatively impact reliability and efficiency of the solar thermal system. Lightweight curved solar-reflecting mirrors are suspended from the ceiling of the glasshouse by wires. A single-axis tracking system positions the mirrors to retrieve the optimal amount of sunlight. The mirrors concentrate the sunlight and focus it on a network of stationary steel pipes, also suspended from the glasshouse structure. Water is carried throughout the length of the pipe, which is boiled to generate steam when intense solar radiation is applied. Sheltering the mirrors from the wind allows them to achieve higher temperature rates and prevents dust from building up on the mirrors.\n\nGlassPoint Solar, the company that created the Enclosed Trough design, states its technology can produce heat for Enhanced Oil Recovery (EOR) for about $5 per million British thermal units in sunny regions, compared to between $10 and $12 for other conventional solar thermal technologies.\n\nFresnel reflectors are made of many thin, flat mirror strips to concentrate sunlight onto tubes through which working fluid is pumped. Flat mirrors allow more reflective surface in the same amount of space than a parabolic reflector, thus capturing more of the available sunlight, and they are much cheaper than parabolic reflectors. Fresnel reflectors can be used in various size CSPs.\n\nFresnel reflectors are sometimes regarded as a technology with a worse output than other methods. The cost efficiency of this model is what causes some to use this instead of others with higher output ratings. Some new models of Fresnel Reflectors with Ray Tracing capabilities have begun to be tested and have initially proved to yield higher output than the standard version.\n\nA dish Stirling or dish engine system consists of a stand-alone parabolic reflector that concentrates light onto a receiver positioned at the reflector's focal point. The reflector tracks the Sun along two axes. The working fluid in the receiver is heated to and then used by a Stirling engine to generate power. Parabolic-dish systems provide high solar-to-electric efficiency (between 31% and 32%), and their modular nature provides scalability. The Stirling Energy Systems (SES), United Sun Systems (USS) and Science Applications International Corporation (SAIC) dishes at UNLV, and Australian National University's Big Dish in Canberra, Australia are representative of this technology. A world record for solar to electric efficiency was set at 31.25% by SES dishes at the National Solar Thermal Test Facility (NSTTF) in New Mexico on 31 January 2008, a cold, bright day. According to its developer, Ripasso Energy, a Swedish firm, in 2015 its Dish Sterling system being tested in the Kalahari Desert in South Africa showed 34% efficiency. The SES installation in Maricopa, Phoenix was the largest Stirling Dish power installation in the world until it was sold to United Sun Systems. Subsequently, larger parts of the installation have been moved to China as part of the huge energy demand.\n\nHeat from the sun can be used to provide steam used to make heavy oil less viscous and easier to pump. Solar power tower and parabolic troughs can be used to provide the steam which is used directly so no generators are required and no electricity is produced. Solar thermal enhanced oil recovery can extend the life of oilfields with very thick oil which would not otherwise be economical to pump.\n\nIn a CSP plant that includes storage, the solar energy is first used to heat the molten salt or synthetic oil which is stored providing thermal/heat energy at high temperature in insulated tanks. Later the hot molten salt (or oil) is used in a steam generator to produce steam to generate electricity by steam turbo generator as per requirement. Thus solar energy which is available in daylight only is used to generate electricity round the clock on demand as a Load following power plant or solar peaker plant. The thermal storage capacity is indicated in hours of power generation at nameplate capacity. Unlike solar PV or CSP without storage, the power generation from solar thermal storage plants is dispatchable and self-sustainable similar to coal/gas-fired power plants, but without the pollution.\n\nThe commercial deployment of CSP plants started by 1984 in the US with the SEGS plants. The last SEGS plant was completed in 1990. From 1991 to 2005, no CSP plants were built anywhere in the world. Global installed CSP-capacity increased nearly tenfold between 2004 and 2013 and grew at an average of 50 percent per year during the last five of those years. In 2013, worldwide installed capacity increased by 36% or nearly 0.9 gigawatt (GW) to more than 3.4 GW. Spain and the United States remained the global leaders, while the number of countries with installed CSP were growing but the rapid decrease in price of PV solar, policy changes and the global financial crisis stopped most development in these countries. 2014 was the best year for CSP but was followed by a rapid decline with only one major plant completed in the world in 2016. There is a notable trend towards developing countries and regions with high solar radiation with several large plants under construction in 2017.\n\nCSP is also increasingly competing with the cheaper photovoltaic solar power and with concentrator photovoltaics (CPV), a fast-growing technology that just like CSP is suited best for regions of high solar insolation. In addition, a novel solar CPV/CSP hybrid system has been proposed recently.\n\nThe conversion efficiency formula_1 of the incident solar radiation into mechanical work − without considering the ultimate conversion step into electricity by a power generator − depends on the thermal radiation properties of the solar receiver and on the heat engine (e.g. steam turbine). \nSolar irradiation is first converted into heat by the solar receiver with the efficiency formula_2 and subsequently the heat is converted into work by the heat engine with the efficiency formula_3, using Carnot's principle. \nFor a solar receiver providing a heat source at temperature formula_4 and a heat sink at room temperature formula_5, the overall conversion efficiency can be calculated as follows:\n\nFor a solar flux formula_12 (e.g. formula_13) concentrated formula_14 times with an efficiency formula_15 on the system solar receiver with a collecting area formula_16 and an absorptivity formula_17:\nFor simplicity's sake, one can assume that the losses are only radiative ones (a fair assumption for high temperatures), thus for a reradiating area \"A\" and an emissivity formula_20 applying the Stefan-Boltzmann law yields:\n\nSimplifying these equations by considering perfect optics (formula_22 = 1), collecting and reradiating areas equal and maximum absorptivity and emissivity (formula_17 = 1, formula_20 = 1) then substituting in the first equation gives\n\nThe graph shows that the overall efficiency does not increase steadily with the receiver's temperature. Although the heat engine's efficiency (Carnot) increases with higher temperature, the receiver's efficiency does not. On the contrary, the receiver's efficiency is decreasing, as the amount of energy it cannot absorb (Q) grows by the fourth power as a function of temperature. Hence, there is a maximum reachable temperature. When the receiver efficiency is null (blue curve on the figure below), T is:\nformula_26\n\nThere is a temperature T for which the efficiency is maximum, i.e. when the efficiency derivative relative to the receiver temperature is null:\nConsequently, this leads us to the following equation:\nSolving this equation numerically allows us to obtain the optimum process temperature according to the solar concentration ratio formula_14 (red curve on the figure below)\n\nTheoretical efficiencies aside, real-world experience of CSP reveals a 25%–60% shortfall in projected production, a good part of which is due to the practical Carnot cycle losses not included in the above analysis.\n\nAs of 2017, new CSP power plants are economically competitive with fossil fuels in certain regions, such as Chile, Australia, and the Middle east and North Africa Region (MENA). Nathaniel Bullard, a solar analyst at Bloomberg New Energy Finance, calculated that the cost of electricity at the Ivanpah Solar Power Facility, a project contracted in 2009 and completed in 2014 in Southern California, would be lower than that from photovoltaic power and about the same as that from natural gas. However, due to the rapid price decline of photovoltaics, in November 2011, Google announced that they would not invest further in CSP projects Google had invested US$168 million on BrightSource.\nIRENA has published in June 2012 a series of studies titled: \"Renewable Energy Cost Analysis\". The CSP study shows the cost of both building and operation of CSP plants. Costs are expected to decrease, but there are insufficient installations to clearly establish the learning curve.\n\nBy 2012, there was 1.9 GW of CSP installed, with 1.8 GW of that being parabolic trough. The US Department of Energy publishes the up to date list of CSP power plants at the National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL) under a contract from SolarPACES, the international network of CSP researchers and industry experts. As of 2017, there is 5 GW of CSP installed globally, with most of that in Spain at 2.3 GW, and the US at 1.3 GW.\n\nAt the 2016 Chile auction, SolarReserve bid $63/MWh (¢6.3/kWh) for 24-hour CSP power with no subsidies, competing with other types such as LNG gas turbines.\nIn 2017, prices for both bids and signed contracts fell rapidly by 50% from 9.4 cents per kWh in May, to under 5 cents in October. In May, Dubai Electricity and Water (DEWA) received bids at 9.4 cents per kWh. In August DEWA signed a contract with Saudi-based ACWA Power at 7.3 cents per kWh. In September, SolarReserve signed a contract to supply the evening peak in South Australia at 6.1 cents per kWh, lower than the price of natural gas generation. In October 2017, SolarReserve bid into the 2017 Chilean Auction at 5 cents per kWh.\n\nAs of November 2017, prices in the MENA Region (Middle East and North Africa) are at 7 cents per kWh or lower according to ACWA Power. The capital costs have fallen by 50% in last five years.\n\nUntil 2012, solar-thermal electricity generation was initially eligible for feed-in tariff payments (art. 2 RD 661/2007), if the system capacity does not exceed the following limits:\nThe capacity limits for the different system types are re-defined during the review of the application conditions every quarter (art. 5 RD 1578/2008, Annex III RD 1578/2008). Prior to the end of an application period, the market caps specified for each system type are published on the website of the Ministry of Industry, Tourism and Trade (art. 5 RD 1578/2008).\n\nSince 27 January 2012, Spain has halted acceptance of new projects for the feed-in-tariff. Projects currently accepted are not affected, except that a 6% tax on feed-in-tariffs has been adopted, effectively reducing the feed-in-tariff.\n\nAt the federal level, under the Large-scale Renewable Energy Target (LRET), in operation under the Renewable Energy Electricity Act 2000, large scale solar thermal electricity generation from accredited RET power stations may be entitled to create large-scale generation certificates (LGCs). These certificates can then be sold and transferred to liable entities (usually electricity retailers) to meet their obligations under this tradeable certificates scheme. However, as this legislation is technology neutral in its operation, it tends to favour more established RE technologies with a lower levelised cost of generation, such as large scale onshore wind, rather than solar thermal and CSP.\nAt State level, renewable energy feed-in laws typically are capped by maximum generation capacity in kWp, and are open only to micro or medium scale generation and in a number of instances are only open to solar PV (photovoltaic) generation. This means that larger scale CSP projects would not be eligible for payment for feed-in incentives in many of the State and Territory jurisdictions.\n\nA study done by Greenpeace International, the European Solar Thermal Electricity Association, and the International Energy Agency's SolarPACES group investigated the potential and future of concentrated solar power. The study found that concentrated solar power could account for up to 25% of the world's energy needs by 2050. The increase in investment would be from €2 billion worldwide to €92.5 billion in that time period.\nSpain is the leader in concentrated solar power technology, with more than 50 government-approved projects in the works. Also, it exports its technology, further increasing the technology's stake in energy worldwide. Because the technology works best with areas of high insolation (solar radiation), experts predict the biggest growth in places like Africa, Mexico, and the southwest United States. It indicates that the thermal storage systems based in nitrates (calcium, potassium, sodium...) will make the CSP plants more and more profitable. The study examined three different outcomes for this technology: no increases in CSP technology, investment continuing as it has been in Spain and the US, and finally the true potential of CSP without any barriers on its growth. The findings of the third part are shown in the table below:\nFinally, the study acknowledged how technology for CSP was improving and how this would result in a drastic price decrease by 2050. It predicted a drop from the current range of €0.23–0.15/kwh to €0.14–0.10/kwh.\n\nThe European Union looked into developing a €400 billion (US$774 billion) network of solar power plants based in the Sahara region using CSP technology to be known as Desertec, to create \"a new carbon-free network linking Europe, the Middle East and North Africa\". The plan was backed mainly by German industrialists and predicted production of 15% of Europe's power by 2050. Morocco was a major partner in Desertec and as it has barely 1% of the electricity consumption of the EU, it could produce more than enough energy for the entire country with a large energy surplus to deliver to Europe. Algeria has the biggest area of desert, and private Algerian firm Cevital signed up for Desertec. With its wide desert (the highest CSP potential in the Mediterranean and Middle East regions ~ about 170 TWh/year) and its strategic geographical location near Europe, Algeria is one of the key countries to ensure the success of Desertec project. Moreover, with the abundant natural-gas reserve in the Algerian desert, this will strengthen the technical potential of Algeria in acquiring Solar-Gas Hybrid Power Plants for 24-hour electricity generation. Most of the participants pulled out of the effort at the end of 2014.\n\nOther organizations had predicted CSP to cost $0.06(US)/kWh by 2015 due to efficiency improvements and mass production of equipment. That would have made CSP as cheap as conventional power. Investors such as venture capitalist Vinod Khosla expect CSP to continuously reduce costs and actually be cheaper than coal power after 2015.\n\nIn 2009, scientists at the National Renewable Energy Laboratory (NREL) and SkyFuel teamed to develop large curved sheets of metal that have the potential to be 30% less expensive than today's best collectors of concentrated solar power by replacing glass-based models with a silver polymer sheet that has the same performance as the heavy glass mirrors, but at much lower cost and weight. It also is much easier to deploy and install. The glossy film uses several layers of polymers, with an inner layer of pure silver.\n\nTelescope designer Roger Angel (Univ. of Arizona) has turned his attention to CPV, and is a partner in a company called Rehnu. Angel utilizes a spherical concentrating lens with large-telescope technologies, but much cheaper materials and mechanisms, to create efficient systems.\n\nRecent experience with CSP technology in 2014-2015 at Solana in Arizona, and Ivanpah in Nevada indicate large production shortfalls in electricity generation between 25% and 40% in the first years of operation. Producers blame clouds and stormy weather, but critics seem to think there are technological issues. These problems are causing utilities to pay inflated prices for wholesale electricity, and threaten the long-term viability of the technology. As photovoltaic costs continue to plummet, many think CSP has a limited future in utility-scale electricity production.\n\nThere have been several proposals for gigawatt size, very-large-scale solar power plants. They include the Euro-Mediterranean Desertec proposal and Project Helios in Greece (10 GW), both now canceled. A 2003 study concluded that the world could generate 2,357,840 TWh each year from very large scale solar power plants using 1% of each of the world's deserts. Total consumption worldwide was 15,223 TWh/year (in 2003). The gigawatt size projects would have been arrays of standard-sized single plants. The largest single plant in operation is the 370 MW Ivanpah Solar. In 2012, the BLM made available of land in the southwestern United States for solar projects, enough for between 10,000 and 20,000 GW.\n\nThe locations with highest direct irradiance are dry, at high altitude, and located in the tropics. These locations have a higher potential for CSP than areas with less sun.\n\nAbandoned opencast mines, moderate hill slopes and crater depressions may be advantageous in the case of power tower CSP as the power tower can be located on the ground integral with the molten salt storage tank.\n\nInsects can be attracted to the bright light caused by concentrated solar technology, and as a result birds that hunt them can be killed by being burned if they fly near the point where light is being focused. This can also affect raptors who hunt the birds. Federal wildlife officials were quoted by opponents as calling the Ivanpah power towers \"mega traps\" for wildlife.\n\nAccording to rigorous reporting, in over six months, 133 singed birds were counted. By focusing no more than four mirrors on any one place in the air during standby, at Crescent Dunes Solar Energy Project, in three months, the death rate dropped to zero. Other than in the US, no bird deaths have been reported at CSP plants internationally.\n\n"}
{"id": "23693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23693", "title": "Conflict of laws", "text": "Conflict of laws\n\nConflict of laws concerns relations across different legal jurisdictions between natural persons, companies, corporations and other legal entities, their legal obligations and the appropriate forum and procedure for resolving disputes between them. Conflict of laws especially affects private international law, but may also affect domestic legal disputes e.g. determination of which state law applies in the United States, or where a contract makes incompatible reference to more than one legal framework.\n\nCourts faced with a choice of law issue have a two-stage process:\n\n\nIn divorce cases, when a court is attempting to distribute marital property, if the divorcing couple is local and the property is local, then the court applies its domestic law \"lex fori\". The case becomes more complicated if foreign elements are thrown into the mix, such as when the place of marriage is different from the territory where divorce was filed; when the parties' nationalities and residences do not match; when there is property in a foreign jurisdiction; or when the parties have changed residence several times during the marriage.\n\nWhereas commercial agreements or prenuptial agreements generally do not require legal formalities to be observed, when married couples enter a property agreement (agreement for the division of property at the termination of the marriage), stringent requirements are imposed, including notarization, witnesses, special acknowledgment forms. In some countries, these must be filed (or docketed) with a domestic court, and the terms must be \"so ordered\" by a judge. This is done in order to ensure that no undue influence or oppression has been exerted by one spouse against the other. Upon presenting a property agreement between spouses to a court of divorce, that court will generally assure itself of the following factors: signatures, legal formalities, intent, later intent, free will, lack of oppression, reasonableness and fairness, consideration, performance, reliance, later repudiation in writing or by conduct, and whichever other concepts of contractual bargaining apply in the context.\n\nWhen there is a conflict of law between two countries (example China, Japan, India and the United States), the law of the country in which the children are located must be followed. The only reason why the Japanese mother took and keeps her children in Japan is because of forum shopping. This is because the Japanese mother does not have to share custody with the American father, if her children in Japan. If her children are in the United States she would have to share custody with the American father. In Japan the mother gets sole custody of the children and decides the visitation terms of the father. \n\nFor example, when an American father tried to take his children back to the United States from Japan in 2009 after an American court gave him custody of his children, he was arrested by Japanese police. After spending two weeks in jail he was allowed to return to the United States. If the Japanese mother of the same children were to return to the United States she would be arrested and face charges for taking her children to Japan.\n\nIt is a criminal offense under United States law for a Japanese mother to take her children from the United States to Japan. Under Japanese law it is a criminal offense for an American father to take the same children from Japan back to the United States.\n\nPossession is nine-tenths of the law.\n\nIn an intentional parental abduction, a person who has legal custody in the country where the children are physically located, could be wanted by police for international parental abduction. This is because there is a conflict of law between two countries. One must follow the law of the country where the children are located. \n\nFor example, a Canadian woman is wanted for parental abduction in Lebanon. The Lebanese father of the same children is wanted for parental abduction in Canada. This is because there is a conflict of law between Canada and Lebanon. Because the children are physically located in Canada, one must abide by Canadian law, not Lebanese law. It is a criminal offense under Canadian law for the Lebanese father to retain his children in Lebanon, while it is a criminal offense under Lebanese law for the Canadian mother to take her children back to Canada.\n\nMany contracts and other forms of legally binding agreement include a jurisdiction or arbitration clause specifying the parties' choice of venue for any litigation (called a forum selection clause). In England and the EU, this is governed by the Rome I Regulation. Choice of law clauses may specify which laws the court or tribunal should apply to each aspect of the dispute. This matches the substantive policy of freedom of contract and will be determined by the law of the state where the choice of law clause confers its competence. Oxford Professor Adrian Briggs suggests that this is doctrinally problematic as it is emblematic of 'pulling oneself up by the bootstraps'. \n\nJudges have accepted that the principle of party autonomy allows the parties to select the law most appropriate to their transaction. This judicial acceptance of subjective intent excludes the traditional reliance on objective connecting factors; it also harms consumers as vendors often impose one-sided contractual terms selecting a venue far from the buyer's home or workplace. Contractual clauses relating to consumers, employees, and insurance beneficiaries are regulated under additional terms set out in Rome I, which may modify the contractual terms imposed by vendors.\n\nTo apply one national legal system as against another may never be an entirely satisfactory approach. The parties' interests may always be better protected by applying a law conceived with international realities in mind. The Hague Conference on Private International Law is a treaty organization that oversees conventions designed to develop a uniform system. The deliberations of the conference have recently been the subject of controversy over the extent of cross-border jurisdiction on electronic commerce and defamation issues. There is a general recognition that there is a need for an international law of contracts: for example, many nations have ratified the \"Vienna Convention on the International Sale of Goods\", the \"Rome Convention on the Law Applicable to Contractual Obligations\" offers less specialized uniformity, and there is support for the \"UNIDROIT Principles of International Commercial Contracts\", a private restatement, all of which represent continuing efforts to produce international standards as the internet and other technologies encourage ever more interstate commerce.\n\nOther branches of the law are less well served and the dominant trend remains the role of the forum law rather than a supranational system for conflict purposes. Even the EU, which has institutions capable of creating uniform rules with direct effect, has failed to produce a universal system for the common market. Nevertheless, the Treaty of Amsterdam does confer authority on the community's institutions to legislate by Council Regulation in this area with supranational effect. Article 177 would give the Court of Justice jurisdiction to interpret and apply their principles so, if the political will arises, uniformity may gradually emerge in letter. Whether the domestic courts of the Member States would be consistent in applying those letters is speculative.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40742582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40742582", "title": "Cooling-off period (consumer rights)", "text": "Cooling-off period (consumer rights)\n\nIn consumer rights legislation and practice, a cooling-off period is a period of time following a purchase when the purchaser may choose to cancel a purchase, and return goods which have been supplied, for any reason, and obtain a full refund.\n\nMany nations have passed laws that create cooling off periods for specific transactions, although the conditions under which they may apply and the transactions covered by the laws varies significantly by jurisdiction. For example, within the United States, the federal government imposes 72-hour cooling down periods for many consumer transactions completed at home or away from the seller's traditional place of business. Many U.S. states impose versions of those cooling down period laws, and offer similar laws for an additional range of transactions, such as time share purchases and health club contracts. For example, California provides cooling-off periods for many consumer transactions, including insurance purchases, car warranties, dental services, and weight-loss services. The European Union allows residents of member states to seek refunds for goods and services purchased outside of a shop, such as by telephone, mail order or in response to a door-to-door sales pitch, to cancel the transaction, return any purchase and obtain a refund within fourteen days.\n\nAlthough not technically cooling off periods, many retailers voluntarily grant purchasers a defined period of time during which they may return products that have not been damaged and remain in salable condition.\n\nSome jurisdictions require retailers to offer return policies. For example, in the European Union the Consumer Rights Directive of 2011 obliges member states to give purchasers the right to return goods or cancel services purchased from a business away from a normal commercial premises, such as online, mail order, or door-to-door, with limited exceptions, within two weeks or one year if the seller did not clearly inform the purchaser of their rights from the receipt of the goods, for a full refund. The Consumer Rights Directive is implemented in the United Kingdom by the Consumer Contracts (information, Cancellation and Additional Charges) Regulations 2013.\n\nThe effects of cooling-off periods have been studied in experimental economics in the context of the so-called ultimatum game. In this game, one party makes an offer to divide a pie (say, 10 dollars). Then another party can accept or reject the offer. When the offer (say, 8 dollars for the first party and 2 dollars for the second party) is accepted, the parties get the respective payments. When the offer is rejected, both parties get zero. Cooling-off periods can reduce the rejection rates of unfair offers when the parties perceive the stakes to be large. \n\n"}
{"id": "2983153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2983153", "title": "Criminalization of politics", "text": "Criminalization of politics\n\n\"Criminalization of politics\" is a political buzzword in the United States used in the media, by commentators, bloggers as well as by defenders of high-ranking government officials who have been indicted or have faced criminal or ethical investigations.\n\nMost recently, the term has been applied to proceedings against President George W. Bush's advisers and the Republican Party leadership in Congress, including Tom DeLay, Bill Frist, and Karl Rove (see Plame affair). The position of their defenders, who include Robert Novak, William Kristol and Rush Limbaugh, is that the accusations against these officials lack substance and Democratic partisans seek to weaken them for political reasons, perhaps to the point of retaking Congress in 2006.\n\nThe position of many Democrats is that the cause of the plethora of investigations is the \"culture of corruption\" established by the Republicans in power, and that anyone who has broken laws or rules must face the consequences. The opponents also point out that some of the politicians denouncing the current pursuit of alleged Republican misconduct have in the past called for vigorous pursuit of alleged Democratic misconduct.\n\nThe phrase was previously used by supporters of President Bill Clinton in reference to legal action against members of his administration, including Henry Cisneros. During the Watergate scandal, supporters of Richard Nixon claimed that he was guilty of nothing more than \"hard-ball politics.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57496260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57496260", "title": "Data Protection Act 2018", "text": "Data Protection Act 2018\n\nThe Data Protection Act 2018 (c 12) is a United Kingdom Act of Parliament which updates data protection laws in the UK. It is a national law which complements the European Union's General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). \n\nThe Data Protection Act 2018 achieved Royal Assent on 23 May 2018. It applies the EU's GDPR standards. Whereas the GDPR gives member states limited opportunities to make provisions for how it applies in their country, one element of the DPA 2018 is the details of these, applying as the national law. The DPA 2018 is however not limited to the UK GDPR provisions. \n\nThe Act has seven parts. These are outlined in Section 1:\n\n\nThe Act introduces new offences that include knowingly or recklessly obtaining or disclosing personal data without the consent of the data controller, procuring such disclosure, or retaining the data obtained without consent. Selling, or offering to sell, personal data knowingly or recklessly obtained or disclosed would also be an offence.\n\nEssentially, the Act implements the EU Law Enforcement Directive, it implements those parts of the GDPR which 'are to be determined by Member State law' and it creates a framework similar to the GDPR for the processing of personal data which is outside the scope of the GDPR. This includes intelligence services processing, immigration services processing and the processing of personal data held in unstructured form by public authorities.\n\nUnder section 3 of the European Union (Withdrawal) Act 2018, the GDPR will be incorporated directly into domestic law immediately after the UK exits the European Union.\n\n"}
{"id": "3741671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3741671", "title": "Dictatus papae", "text": "Dictatus papae\n\nDictatus papae is a compilation of 27 statements of powers arrogated to the pope that was included in Pope Gregory VII's register under the year 1075.\n\nThe principles expressed in \"Dictatus papae\" are those of the Gregorian Reform, which had been initiated by Gregory decades before he became pope. The axioms of the \"Dictatus\" advance the strongest case for papal supremacy and infallibility. The axiom \"That it may be permitted to him to depose emperors\" qualified the early medieval balance of power embodied in the letter \"Famuli vestrae pietatis\" of Pope Gelasius I to the Eastern Roman Emperor Anastasius (494), which outlined the separation and complementarity of spiritual and temporal powers - \"auctoritas\" (spiritual) \"and potestas\" or \"imperium\" (temporal), the former being ultimately superior to the latter - under which the West had been ruled since Merovingian times. \"None of the conflicts of the years 1075 and following can be directly traced to opposition to it (though several of the claims made in it were also made by Gregory and his supporters during these conflicts)\". Later medieval developments of the relationship between spiritual and secular power would come with Pope Boniface VIII, who famously formulated the image of the two swords in the papal bull \"Unam Sanctam\" (1302). \n\n\"Dictatus Papae\" is a heading in the letter-collection that implies that the pope composed the piece himself. It does not mean a 'papal dictate' or any kind of a manifesto; rather it means 'papal dictation'. It was not published, in the sense of being widely copied and made known outside the immediate circle of the papal curia. \n\nSome historians believe that it was written or dictated by Gregory himself, and others that it had a different origin and was inserted in the register at a later date. In 1087 Deusdedit, a cardinal and ally of Gregory, published a collection of decretals, dedicated to Pope Victor III, that embodied the law of the Church – canon law – which he had compiled from many sources, both legitimate and false (see Pseudo-Isidore). The \"Dictatus papae\" agrees so closely with this collection that some have argued the \"Dictatus\" must have been based on it.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1636261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1636261", "title": "Diversity jurisdiction", "text": "Diversity jurisdiction\n\nIn the law of the United States, diversity jurisdiction is a form of subject-matter jurisdiction in civil procedure in which a United States district court in the federal judiciary has the power to hear a civil case when the amount in controversy exceeds $75,000 and where the persons that are parties are \"diverse\" in citizenship or state of incorporation (for corporations being legal persons), which generally indicates that they differ in state and/or nationality. Diversity jurisdiction and federal-question jurisdiction (jurisdiction over issues arising under federal law) constitute the two primary categories of subject matter jurisdiction in U.S. federal courts. \n\nThe United States Constitution, in , gives the Congress the power to permit federal courts to hear diversity cases through legislation authorizing such jurisdiction. The provision was included because the Framers of the Constitution were concerned that when a case is filed in one state, and it involves parties from that state and another state, the state court might be biased toward the party from that state. Congress first exercised that power and granted federal trial circuit courts diversity jurisdiction in the Judiciary Act of 1789. Diversity jurisdiction is currently codified at .\n\nIn 1969, the American Law Institute explained in a 587-page analysis of the subject that diversity is the \"most controversial\" type of federal jurisdiction, because it \"lays bare fundamental issues regarding the nature and operation of our federal union\".\n\nMostly, in order for diversity jurisdiction to apply, complete diversity is required, where none of the plaintiffs can be from the same state as any of the defendants. A corporation is treated as a citizen of the state in which it is incorporated \"and\" the state in which its principal place of business is located. A partnership or limited liability company is considered to have the citizenship of all of its constituent partners/members. Thus, an LLC or partnership with one member or partner sharing citizenship with an opposing party will destroy diversity of jurisdiction. Cities and towns (incorporated municipalities) are also treated as citizens of the states in which they are located, but states themselves are not considered citizens for the purpose of diversity. U.S. citizens are citizens of the state in which they are domiciled, which is the last state in which they resided and had an intent to remain. Though an alien (foreign national) who has been granted the status of permanent resident status used to be treated as a citizen of the state where the alien is domiciled, legislation proposed in July 2017 would eliminate this language from the code and add language specifically denying diversity jurisdiction in a claim between a citizen of a state and an alien permanent resident.\n\nA national bank chartered under the National Bank Act is treated as a citizen of the state in which it is \"located.\" In 2006, the Supreme Court rejected an approach that would have interpreted the term \"located\" to mean that a national bank is a citizen of every state in which it maintains a branch. The Supreme Court concluded that “a national bank . . . is a citizen of the State in which its main office, as set forth in its articles of association, is located.” The Supreme Court, however, left open the possibility that a national bank may \"also\" be a citizen of the state in which it has its principal place of business, thus putting it on an equal footing with a state-formed corporation. This remains an open question, with some lower courts holding that a national bank is a citizen of \"only\" the state in which its main office is located, and others holding that a national bank is \"also\" a citizen of the state in which it has its principal place of business.\n\nThe diversity jurisdiction statute also allows federal courts to hear cases in which:\n\nA U.S. citizen who is domiciled outside the U.S. is not considered to be a citizen of any U.S. state, and cannot be considered an alien. The presence of such a person as a party completely destroys diversity jurisdiction, except for a class action or mass action in which minimal diversity exists with respect to other parties in the case.\n\nIf the case requires the presence of a party who is from the same state as an opposing party, or a party who is a U.S. citizen domiciled outside the country, the case must be dismissed, the absent party being deemed \"indispensable\". The determination of whether a party is indispensable is made by the court following the guidelines set forth in Rule 19 of the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure.\n\nDiversity is determined at the time that the action is filed, and on the basis of the residency of the parties at that time. A change in domicile by a party before or after that date is irrelevant. However, in \"Caterpillar, Inc. v. Lewis\" (1996), the Supreme Court also held that federal jurisdiction predicated on diversity of citizenship can be sustained even if there did not exist complete diversity at the time of removal to federal court, so long as complete diversity exists at the time the district court enters judgment. The court in Caterpillar sustained diversity as an issue of \"fairness\" and economy, given a lower court's original mistake that allowed removal.\n\nCongress never defined exactly what is a \"principal place of business.\" The question of what that phrase meant became hotly disputed during the late 20th century as many areas of the American economy came under the control of large national corporations. Although these corporations usually had a headquarters in one state, the majority of their employees, assets, and revenue were often physically located at retail sites in the states with the largest populations, and hence a circuit split developed in which some judges held that the latter states could \"also\" be treated as the corporation's principal place of business. The rationale was that those states were where the business was actually occurring or being transacted. This issue was finally resolved by a unanimous Supreme Court in \"Hertz Corp. v. Friend\" (2010), which held that a corporation's principal place of business is presumed to be the place of the corporation’s \"nerve center\" from where its officers conduct the corporation’s important business.\n\nThe United States Congress has placed an additional barrier to diversity jurisdiction, the amount in controversy requirement. This is a minimum amount of money which the parties must be contesting is owed to them. Since the enactment of the Federal Courts Improvement Act of 1996, 28 U.S.C. §1332(a) has provided that a claim for relief must exceed the sum or value of $75,000, exclusive of interest and costs and without considering counterclaims. In other words, the amount in controversy must be equal to or more than $75,000.01, and (in a case which has been removed from a state court to the federal court) a federal court must remand a case back to state court if the amount in controversy is exactly $75,000.00.\n\nA plaintiff may add different claims against the same defendant to meet the amount. Two plaintiffs, however, may not join their claims together to meet the amount, but if one plaintiff meets the amount standing alone, the second plaintiff can piggyback as long as the second plaintiff's claim arises out of the same facts as the main claim. See the article on federal supplemental subject matter jurisdiction here: supplemental jurisdiction. \n\nThe amount specified has been regularly increased over the past two centuries. Courts will use the legal certainty test to decide whether the dispute is over $75,000. Under the legal certainty test, the court will accept the pleaded amount unless it is legally certain that the pleading party cannot recover more than $75,000. For example, if the dispute is solely over the breach of a contract by which the defendant had agreed to pay the plaintiff $10,000, a federal court will dismiss the case for lack of subject matter jurisdiction, or remand the case to state court if it arrived via removal.\n\nIn personal injury cases, plaintiffs will sometimes claim amounts \"not to exceed $75,000\" in their complaint to avoid removal of the case to federal court. If the amount is left unspecified in the ad damnum, as is required by the pleading rules of many states, the defendant may sometimes be able to remove the case to federal court unless the plaintiff's lawyer files a document expressly disclaiming damages in excess of the jurisdictional requirement. Because juries decide what personal injuries are worth, compensation for injuries may exceed $75,000 such that the \"legal certainty\" test will not bar federal court jurisdiction. Many plaintiffs' lawyers seek to avoid federal courts because of the perception that they are more hostile to plaintiffs than most state courts.\n\nA longstanding judge-made rule holds that federal courts have no jurisdiction over divorce or other domestic relations cases, even if there is diversity of citizenship between the parties and the amount of money in controversy meets the jurisdictional limit. As the Supreme Court has stated, \"[t]he whole subject of the domestic relations of husband and wife, parent and child, belongs to the laws of the states, and not to the laws of the United States.\" The court concluded \"that the domestic relations exception ... divests the federal courts of power to issue divorce, alimony, and child custody decrees.\" In explaining this exception, the high court noted that domestic cases frequently required the issuing court to retain jurisdiction over recurring disputes in interpreting and enforcing those decrees. State courts have developed expertise in dealing with these matters, and the interest of judicial economy required keeping that litigation in the courts most experienced to handle it. However, federal courts are not limited in their ability to hear tort cases arising out of domestic situations by the doctrine.\n\nA similar exception has been recognized for probate and decedent's estate litigation, which continues to hold for the primary cases; diversity jurisdiction does not exist to probate wills or administer decedent's estates directly. Diversity jurisdiction is allowed for some litigation that arises under trusts and other estate planning documents, however.\n\nIf a case is originally filed in a state court, and the requirements for federal jurisdiction are met (diversity and amount in controversy, the case involves a federal question, or a supplemental jurisdiction exists), the defendant (and only the defendant) may remove the case to a federal court. \n\nA case cannot be removed to a state court. To remove to a federal court, the defendant must file a \"notice of removal\" with both the state court where the case was filed and the federal court to which it will be transferred. The notice of removal must be filed within 30 days of the first removable document. For example, if there is no diversity of citizenship initially, but the non-diverse defendant is subsequently dismissed, the remaining diverse defendant(s) may remove to a federal court. However, no removal is available after one year of the filing of the complaint.\n\nA party's citizenship at the time of the filing of the action is considered the citizenship of the party. If a defendant later moves to the same state as the plaintiff while the action is pending, the federal court will still have jurisdiction. However, if any defendant is a citizen of the state where the action is first filed, diversity does not exist. 28 U.S.C. §1441(b).\n\nIf a plaintiff or a co-defendant opposes removal, he may request a \"remand\", asking the federal court to send the case back to the state court. A remand is rarely granted if the diversity and amount in controversy requirements are met. A remand may be granted, however, if a non-diverse party joins the action, or if the parties settle some claims among them, leaving the amount in controversy below the requisite amount.\n\nThe United States Supreme Court determined in \"Erie Railroad Co. v. Tompkins\" (1938) that the law to be applied in a diversity case would be the law of whatever state in which the action was filed. This decision overturned precedents that had held that federal courts could create a general federal common law, instead of applying the law of the forum state. This decision was an interpretation of the word \"laws\" in 28 U.S.C. 1652, known as the Rules of Decision Act.\n\nUnder the Rules of Decision Act, the laws of the several states, except where the constitution or treaties of the United States or Acts of Congress otherwise require or provide, shall be regarded as rules of decision in civil actions in the courts of the United States, in cases where they apply.\n\nThe Court interpreted \"laws\" to include the states' judicial decisions, or \"common law.\" Thus, it is an overstatement to state that Erie represents the notion that there is no federal common law. Federal courts do adjudicate \"common law\" of federal statutes and regulations.\n\nBecause the RDA provides for exceptions and modifications by Congress, it is important to note the effect of the Rules Enabling Act (REA), 28 U.S.C. 2072. The REA delegates the legislative authority to the Supreme Court to ratify rules of practice and procedure and rules of evidence for federal courts. Thus, it is not Erie, but the REA, which created the distinction between substantive and procedural law.\n\nThus, while state substantive law is applied, the Federal Rules of Civil Procedure and the Federal Rules of Evidence still govern the \"procedural\" matters in a diversity action, as clarified in \"Gasperini v. Center for Humanities\" (1996). The REA, 28 U.S.C. 2072(b), provides that the Rules will not affect the substantive rights of the parties. Therefore, a federal court may still apply the \"procedural\" rules of the state of the initial filing, if the federal law would \"abridge, enlarge, or modify\" a substantive right provided for under the law of the state.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30860635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30860635", "title": "Déclaration d'utilité publique", "text": "Déclaration d'utilité publique\n\nA déclaration d'utilité publique, or declaration of public utility, is a formal recognition in French law that a proposed project has public benefits. The declaration must be obtained for many large construction projects in France, especially for infrastructure, before work can begin.\n\nThe first part of the declaration is a public inquiry, usually started by a prefect, to collect the views of all affected parties. Responses from affected parties are considered by a commissioner, who assesses whether the proposal has an overall benefit for the public.\n\nIf the finding is favourable, the declaration is granted by decree.\n\nThe \"déclaration d'utilité publique\" was initially required by article 545 of the Civil Code, which stipulates that property cannot be confiscated except for public purposes and with fair compensation.\n\n"}
{"id": "864164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=864164", "title": "Election law", "text": "Election law\n\nElection law is a discipline falling at the juncture of constitutional law and political science. It researches \"the politics of law and the law of politics\". The conceptual knowledge behind election law focuses on who votes, when that person can vote, and the construction behind the tabulated totals.\n\nSome of the questions that are addressed by election law are:\n\n\nThe French electoral code addresses most of the elections. However, other texts frame this material for special elections. Thus the Constitution but fixed some general basic provisions concerning the presidential election, the legislative and senatorial elections.\n\nFor litigation election, the court depends on the concerned election. The Constitutional Council is responsible for the most important elections: presidential elections and senatorial elections or referendums. In contrast, to the municipal or district elections the administrative tribunal has jurisdiction, then the appeal is to the State Council. Finally, for the regional and European elections, the Council of State which has jurisdiction at first and last resort.\n\nIn decisions on electoral matters, the law takes into account the results: if an essential principle is violated, the election is canceled but if fraud is \"classic\" (ballot stuffing, failure to register as voters, vote the dead ...) but the election was won (after counting of ballots invalidated) with a large or very large lead, the judge then cancels rarely the result.\n\nThe Italian Constitution fixes some general basic provisions concerning the legislative elections.\nElectoral disputes in Italy are complex because they are divided between several court orders. For example, with regard to the dispute concerning registration of candidates for ballots or litigation election, the administrative court has jurisdiction. For eligibility and disfranchisement, the judge is the ordinary tribunal.\n\nIf a fraud is proven by the judge, it does not cancel necessarily the elections, unless they think that the result of election without the fraud would not have been identical. The survival of the acts already performed by the elected organs would seem solved by abundant case law that protects innocent trust of third parties.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, election law is legislated for by The Houses of Parliament. The statutory governance of UK Election law comes from acts of parliament such as the Fixed Term Parliaments Act 2011. The Electoral Commission's mandate and establishment was set out in the Political Parties, Elections and Referendums Act 2000 (PPERA), and ranges from the regulation of political donations and expenditure by political and third parties through to promoting greater participation in the electoral process.\n\nThe Electoral Administration Act 2006 made a number of improvements to electoral registration, improving the security arrangements for absent voting, allowing observers to attend elections and a major change in reducing the minimum age for candidates at UK parliamentary elections. It also introduced the performance standards regime for electoral services.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4322043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4322043", "title": "Equal Remuneration Convention", "text": "Equal Remuneration Convention\n\nThe Convention concerning Equal Remuneration for Men and Women Workers for Work of Equal Value, or Equal Remuneration Convention is the 100th International Labour Organization Convention and the principal one aimed at equal remuneration for \"work of equal value\" for men and women. States parties may accomplish this through legislation, introduction of a system for wage determination and/or collective bargaining agreements. It is one of 8 ILO fundamental conventions.\n\nAs of June 2017, the convention had been ratified by 173 out of 187 ILO member states. ILO member states that have \"not\" ratified the convention are:\nThe convention has been extended by France to cover French Guiana, Guadeloupe, Martinique, and Réunion. New Zealand has extended the convention to Tokelau. It has not been extended to Aruba, Curaçao, Sint Maarten, or the Caribbean Netherlands within the Kingdom of the Netherlands.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15468281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15468281", "title": "Financial repression", "text": "Financial repression\n\nFinancial repression comprises \"policies that result in savers earning returns below the rate of inflation\" in order to allow banks to \"provide cheap loans to companies and governments, reducing the burden of repayments\". It can be particularly effective at liquidating government debt denominated in domestic currency. It can also lead to a large expansions in debt \"to levels evoking comparisons with the excesses that generated Japan’s lost decade and the Asian financial crisis\" in 1997.\n\nThe term was introduced in 1973 by Stanford economists Edward S. Shaw and Ronald I. McKinnon in order to \"disparage growth-inhibiting policies in emerging markets\".\n\nFinancial repression consists of the following:\n\nThese measures allow governments to issue debt at lower interest rates. A low nominal interest rate can reduce debt servicing costs, while negative real interest rates erodes the real value of government debt. Thus, financial repression is most successful in liquidating debts when accompanied by inflation and can be considered a form of taxation, or alternatively a form of debasement.\n\nThe size of the financial repression tax was computed for 24 emerging markets from 1974 to 1987. The results showed that financial repression exceeded 2% of GDP for seven countries, and greater than 3% for five countries. For five countries (India, Mexico, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, and Zimbabwe) it represented approximately 20% of tax revenue. In the case of Mexico financial repression was 6% of GDP, or 40% of tax revenue.\n\nFinancial repression is categorized as \"macroprudential regulation\"—i.e., government efforts to \"ensure the health of an entire financial system.\n\nFinancial repression \"played an important role in reducing debt-to-GDP ratios after World War II\" by keeping real interest rates for government debt below 1% for two-thirds of the time between 1945 and 1980, the United States was able to \"inflate away\" the large debt (122% of GDP) left over from the Great Depression and World War II. In the UK, government debt declined from 216% of GDP in 1945 to 138% ten years later in 1955.\nChina's economic growth has been attributed to financial repression thanks to \"low returns on savings and the cheap loans that it makes possible\". This has allowed China to rely on savings-financed investments for economic growth. However, because low returns also dampens consumer spending, household expenditures account for \"a smaller share of GDP in China than in any other major economy\". However, as of December 2014, the People’s Bank of China \"started to undo decades of financial repression\" and the government now allows Chinese savers to collect up to a 3.3% return on one-year deposits. At China's 1.6% inflation rate, this is a \"high real-interest rate compared to other major economies”.\n\nIn a 2011 NBER working paper, Carmen Reinhart and Maria Belen Sbrancia speculate on a possible return by governments to this form of debt reduction in order to deal with high debt levels following the 2008 economic crisis.\n\n\"To get access to capital, Austria has restricted capital flows to foreign subsidiaries in central and eastern Europe. Select pension funds have also been transferred to governments in France, Portugal, Ireland and Hungary, enabling them to re-allocate toward sovereign bonds.\"\n\nCritics argue that if this view was true, investors (i.e., capital-seeking parties) would be inclined to demand capital in large quantities and would be buying capital goods from this capital. This high demand for capital goods would certainly lead to inflation and thus the central banks would be forced to raise interest rates again. As a boom pepped by low interest rates fails to appear these days in industrialized countries, this is a sign that the low interest rates seem to be necessary to ensure an equilibrium on the capital market, thus to balance capital-supply—i.e., savers—on one side and capital-demand—i.e., investors and the government—on the other. This view argues that interest rates would be even lower if it were not for the high government debt ratio (i.e., capital demand from the government).\n\nFree-market economists argue that financial repression crowds out private-sector investment, thus undermining growth. On the other hand, \"postwar politicians clearly decided this was a price worth paying to cut debt and avoid outright default or draconian spending cuts. And the longer the gridlock over fiscal reform rumbles on, the greater the chance that 'repression' comes to be seen as the least of all evils\".\n\nAlso, financial repression has been called a “stealth tax” that \"rewards debtors and punishes savers—especially retirees\" because their investments will no longer generate the expected return, which is income for retirees. \"One of the main goals of financial repression is to keep nominal interest rates lower than they would be in more competitive markets. Other things equal, this reduces the government’s interest expenses for a given stock of debt and contributes to deficit reduction. However, when financial repression produces negative real interest rates (nominal rates below the inflation rate), it reduces or liquidates existing debts and becomes the equivalent of a tax—a transfer from creditors (savers) to borrowers, including the government.\"\n"}
{"id": "693306", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=693306", "title": "Foundation (nonprofit)", "text": "Foundation (nonprofit)\n\nA foundation (also a charitable foundation) is a legal category of nonprofit organization that will typically either donate funds and support to other organizations, or provide the source of funding for its own charitable purposes. Foundations incorporate public foundations to pool funds (e.g. a community foundation) and private foundations who are typically endowed by an individual or family. \n\nOne of the characteristics of the legal entities existing under the status of \"Foundations\", is a wide diversity of structures and purposes. Nevertheless, there are some common structural elements that are the first observed under legal scrutiny or classification.\n\nSome of the above must be, in most jurisdictions, expressed in the document of establishment. Others may be provided by the supervising authority at each particular jurisdiction.\n\nThere is no commonly accepted legal definition in Europe for a foundation. There is a proposal for a European Foundation, a legal form that would be recognised throughout Europe, see European Foundation Project.\n\nThe term \"foundation,\" in general, is used to describe a distinct legal entity. Foundations as legal structures (legal entities) and/or legal persons (legal personality), may have a diversity of forms and may follow diverse regulations depending on the jurisdiction where they are created. Foundations are often set up for charitable purposes, family patrimony and collective purposes.\n\nIn some jurisdictions, a foundation may acquire its legal personality when it is entered in a public registry, while in other countries a foundation may acquire legal personality by the mere action of creation through a required document. Unlike a company, foundations have no shareholders, though they may have a board, an assembly and voting members. A foundation may hold assets in its own name for the purposes set out in its constitutive documents, and its administration and operation are carried out in accordance with its statutes or articles of association rather than fiduciary principles. The foundation has a distinct patrimony independent of its founder.\n\nFoundations in Finland must have state approval and register at the National Board of Patents and Registration within six months from its creation. A minimum capital of €25,000 is obligatory. A foundation can be created with any legal purpose and may have economic activity if this is specified in its Bylaws and the business supports the foundation's purpose.\n\nThere are not many Foundations in comparison to the rest of Europe. In practice public administration requires at least €1 million necessary. States representatives have a mandatory seat in the Board.\n\nGerman regulations allow the creation of any foundation for public or private purposes in keeping with the concept of a \"gemeinwohlkonforme Allzweckstiftung\" (\"general-purpose foundation compatible with the common good\"). A foundation should not have commercial activities as its main purpose, but they are permitted if they serve the main purpose of the foundation. There is no minimum starting capital, although in practice at least is considered necessary.\n\nA German foundation can either be charitable or serve a private interest. Charitable foundations enjoy tax exemptions. If they engage in commercial activities, only the commercially active part of the entity is taxed. A family foundation serving private interests is taxed like any other legal entity. There is no central register for German foundations.\n\nOnly charitable foundations are subject to supervision by state authorities. Family foundations are not supervised after establishment. All forms of foundations can be dissolved, however, if they pursue anti-constitutional aims. Foundations are supervised by local authorities within each state (Bundesland) because each state has exclusive legislative power over the laws governing foundations.\n\nIn contrast to many other countries, German law allows a tax sheltered charitable foundation to distribute up to one third of its profit to the founder and his next of kin, if they are needy, or to maintain the founder's grave. These benefits are subject to taxation.\n\n, there are about 15,000 foundations in Germany, about 85% of them charitable foundations. More than 250 charitable German foundations have existed for more than 500 years; the oldest dates back to 1509. There are also large German corporations owned by foundations, including Bertelsmann, Bosch, Carl Zeiss AG and Lidl. Foundations are the main providers of private scholarships to German students.\n\nIn Italy, a foundation is a private non profit and autonomous organization, its assets must be dedicated to a purpose established by the founder. The founder cannot receive any benefits from the foundation or have reverted the initial assets. The private foundations or civil code foundations are under the section about non commercial entities of the first book (Libro Primo) of the Civil Code of Law (Codice Civile) from 1942. The Art. 16 CC establishes that the statutes of the foundation must contain its name, purpose, assets, domicile, administrative organs and regulations, and how the grants will be distributed. The founder must write a declaration of intention including a purpose and endow assets for such purpose. This document can be in the form of a notarised deed or a will. To obtain legal personality, the foundation must enroll in the legal register of each Prefettura (local authority) or some cases the regional authority. There are several nuances in requirements according to each foundation's purpose and area of activity.\n\nSee private foundation in the Netherlands.\n\nSee Foundations in Norway.\n\nA foundation (\"Fundação\") in Portugal is regulated by Law 150/2015, with the exception of religious foundations, which are regulated by the Religious Freedom Law. Foundations may be private, wholly public (created and managed exclusively by public bodies), or public but with private management (created by public entities and optionally also private entities, but whose management is dominated by private entities). Foundations may only be operational after being recognized by the Prime Minister of Portugal.\n\nFoundations must designate and pursue at least one of twenty-five public benefit goals defined by law. They must also have enough assets to pursue those goals. They may not benefit the founders or any other restricted group, but the general public.\n\nPortuguese foundations may voluntarily associate themselves via the Portuguese Foundation Centre (\"CPF – Centro Português de Fundações\"), that was founded in 1993 by the Eng. António de Almeida Foundation, the Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation and the Oriente Foundation.\n\nFoundations in Spain are organizations founded with the purpose of not seeking profit and serving the general needs of the public. Such foundation may be founded by private individuals or by the public. These foundations have an independent legal personality separate from their founders. Foundations serve the general needs of the public with a patrimony that funds public services and which may not be distributed to the founders' benefit.\n\nA foundation in Sweden (Stiftelse) is a legal entity without an owner. It is formed by a letter of donation from a founder donating funds or assets to be administered for a specific purpose. When the purpose is for the public benefit, a foundation may enjoy favourable tax treatment. A foundation may have diverse purposes, including but not limited to public benefit, humanitarian or cultural purposes, religious, collective, familiar, or the simple passive administration of funds. Normally, the supervision of a foundation is done by the county government where the foundation has its domicile, however, large foundations must be registered by the County Administrative Board (CAB), which must also supervise the administration of the foundation.\nThe main legal instruments governing foundations in Sweden are the Foundation Act (1994:1220) and the Regulation for Foundations (1995:1280).\n\nUnder Canadian law, foundations may be public or private, but both are charities. They collectively comprise a large asset base for philanthropy\n\nThe law does not prescribe any particular form for a foundation in Ireland. Most commonly, foundations are companies limited by guarantee or trusts. A foundation can obtain a charity registration number from the Revenue Commissioners for obtaining tax relief as far as they can be considered under the law on charity, however, charitable status does not exist in Ireland. The definition usually applied is that from the Pemsel Case of English jurisprudence (1891) and the Irish Income Tax Act 1967.\nTrusts have no legal personality and companies acquire their legal status through the Company law and the required documents of incorporation. Foundations are not required to register with any public authority.\n\nIn the UK, the word \"foundation\" is sometimes used in the title of a charity, as in the British Heart Foundation and the Fairtrade Foundation. Despite this, the term is not generally used in English law, and (unlike in civil law systems) the term has no precise meaning. Instead, the concept of Charitable Trust is in use (for example, the Wellcome Trust).\n\nIn the United States, many philanthropic and charitable organizations (such as the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation) are considered to be foundations. However, the Internal Revenue Code distinguishes between private foundations (usually funded by an individual, family, or corporation) and public charities (community foundations or other nonprofit groups that raise money from the general public). While they offer donors more control over their charitable giving, private foundations have more restrictions and fewer tax benefits than public charities.\n\nThe States of Jersey are considering introducing civil law type foundations into its law. A consultation paper presenting a general discussion on foundations was brought forth to the Jersey government concerning this possibility. It was adopted by the states of Jersey on 22 October 2008 – Foundations (Jersey) Law 200-\n\nAt an international level there are a series of networks and associations of foundations, among them Council on Foundations, EFC (European Foundation Centre), WINGS (Worldwide Initiatives for Grantmaker Support). Those organization also have a role in supporting research on foundations.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35358938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35358938", "title": "Fraser v. Major League Soccer", "text": "Fraser v. Major League Soccer\n\nFraser v. Major League Soccer, 284 F.3d 47 (1st Cir. 2002), was an antitrust suit filed by eight Major League Soccer players against MLS, the league's investors, and the United States Soccer Federation. The Court found that Major League Soccer was a single entity and therefore legally incapable of conspiring with itself.\n\nThrough the Sherman and Clayton Acts, the plaintiffs claimed that MLS and its investors acting as a single entity unlawfully lessens the value of players' services and that MLS and the USSF conspired to monopolize the Division 1 professional soccer market.\n\nMajor League Soccer – through precedence set in \"Copperweld v. Independence Tube\" – argued that as a single entity with its investors, it could not conspire with itself because it functioned as a single business enterprise. MLS argued that controlling player salaries was critical to MLS's success.\n\nThe players filed their lawsuit in the fall of 1996, and the Court held summary judgment hearings in January 1998. The District Court ruled in summary judgment on April 19, 2000 that MLS was a single entity and therefore cannot conspire with its investors and its investors cannot conspire with each other.\n\nA trial was held during the fall of 2000. Testimony included Deputy Commissioner Ivan Gazidis, who testified on behalf of MLS that \"the biggest challenge we have as a league is keeping our talented players within the league and not having them leave us for other opportunities overseas.\" Each of the eight players who were plaintiffs conceded that he had played non Division 1 professional soccer at some point in his career. The jury found that MLS competes for player services with soccer leagues other than Division 1, and MLS competes with soccer leagues in other countries, meaning that MLS could not be found guilty of monopolizing a market for Division player services in the U.S.\n\nThe Court of Appeals upheld the district court's prior ruling that MLS is a single entity only in that it acts as a \"single economic actor\" and may continue to sign players under its current system. However, the decision also distinguished MLS from \"Copperweld\" and remained intentionally inconclusive as to whether the league's corporate structure really qualifies as a true single entity. The court concluded that \"MLS and its operator/investors comprise a hybrid arrangement, somewhere between a single company…and a cooperative arrangement between existing competitors.\"\n\nThe Court of Appeals upheld the jury's finding that the plaintiffs did not prove that Major League Soccer illegally monopolized the market for player services, and failed to prove the product market and geographic market, because MLS competed with other soccer leagues in the U.S. for players, and MLS competed with soccer leagues in other countries.\n\nOn the charge of a reduction in competition under the Clayton Act, the Court of Appeals held that \"the creation of MLS did not reduce competition in an existing market\" because no active market for Division 1 soccer previously existed in the United States.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33525720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33525720", "title": "Ghenadie Petrescu", "text": "Ghenadie Petrescu\n\nGhenadie Petrescu (; March 1836 – August 31, 1918) was a Wallachian, later Romanian priest of the national Orthodox church, who served as Metropolitan-Primate of Romania from 1893 to 1896. Ghenadie was a monk and hieromonk steadily progressing through church ranks, and becoming Bishop of Argeș in 1875. While tending to this congregation, he established his reputation as philanthropist, art patron, and writer on historical subjects. Ghenadie also preserved an interest in politics, espousing a nationalist Orthodox agenda and finding himself allies on both sides of Romania's two-party system, Conservative and National Liberal.\n\nAs Metropolitan, Ghenadie became tangled in a political controversy which tested the issues of separation between church and state, and ruined his close relationship with Prime Minister Dimitrie A. Sturdza. The conflict became one between Ghenadie and the Romanian Synod, whose civilian members opted to depose him. Ghenadie earned support from the opposition Conservatives, and was energetically defended in print by poet Alexandru Macedonski. His decision to contest the Synod resulted in his banishment to Căldărușani Monastery, as a simple monk. Large swathes of the public rallied behind him, causing protests and riots against the Sturdza government.\n\nAlthough the Synod showed its readiness to reinstate Ghenadie, the latter did not follow suit, and spent the remainder of his life at Căldărușani. In 1909, he was made \"Starets\" for life. His final activities were in the field of art conservation.\n\nGhenadie Petrescu was born in the Wallachian capital of Bucharest, in 1836. His parents were of lowly origins, and his native home was in Hagiului \"mahala\". The future priest received his elementary education at a parish school, that of Domnița Bălașa Church. According to some sources, he took orders at Căldărușani Monastery, Ilfov County, in 1854. Others mention that this happened only in 1858, at Cernica Monastery.\n\nWithin four years, he was dispatched to the Metropolitan diocese of Bucharest, where he functioned as Deacon (Archdeacon as of 1865). In parallel, Ghenadie trained for the priesthood, was received into its ranks in 1869, eventually serving as the Metropolitan's Ecclesiarch. According to his biographical profile the literary magazine \"Familia\" (April 1894), he became one of the first Romanian clergymen to live up to modern expectations, as both an educated priest and a promoter of education. Ghenadie was however noted for not having followed the academic path of theology, and for not having attended public school.\n\nIn the 1860s, Ghenadie was intervening in the large political debate agitating Romania: the issue of naturalization for residents not baptized into Eastern Orthodoxy. His was vocal among the anti-reform clergy, at a time when the Church threatened to excommunicate those politicians who acted in favor of reforming the citizenship law. In 1865, he argued that there was no compatibility between Jewish, Catholic or Protestant residents and the term \"Romanians\". He later expanded on such subjects, helping to enshrine the notion of communion between church, nation and state, and arguing: \"The Church is the foundation stone of any State, and the State cannot exist without it\". His discourse has been read as a precursor to the theocracy envisaged in the 1930s by nationalist Orthodox thinkers (Nichifor Crainic, Gheorghe Racoveanu, Dumitru Stăniloae, etc.).\n\nWith time, Ghenadie became close to the Conservative Party, whose cabinets appointed him to high office. In 1874, when Titu Maiorescu was Minister of Religious Affairs, Ghenadie was unanimously voted an \"Archiereus\" by the Romanian Synod. He was assigned to the Argeș Bishopric in February 1875, when Petre P. Carp was head of the Ministry. His selection coincided with a period of \"consolidation\", which cemented the reforms of the previous period, when the United Principalities had become the modern Romanian state and the church hierarchies had been fused together. The former Bishop of Argeș, also named Ghenadie, had taken part in the effort to consolidate the international prestige of Romanian Orthodoxy, by participating in bilateral meetings with the Old Catholic Church.\n\nAfter serving for a year as the Vicar, Ghenadie Petrescu became recognized as the new Bishop of Argeș. According to \"Familia\", he had an outstanding profile: \"He spent over 17 years in this office, serving at the Lord's altar, advancing the clergy's prosperity and the people's instruction, rendering good advice to each and all and, like all good Christians and Romanians, sacrificing large sums for the churches and schools in his care. [...] His philanthropic zeal and his generosity for the poor are well-known to the public.\" Constantin Dobrescu-Argeș, a journalist and activist from the Curtea de Argeș area, also remembered: \"The lower clergy and all the Eparchy have seen him stepping into each and every hamlet, into the most secluded human dwellings; they heard him preaching the awakening, the encouragement and the rebirth of national and religious sentiment among the people. Instead of 400 wooden churches, which could barely stand to be called houses of prayer, he erected 400 temples, beautiful as far as taste and comfort go.\" During his reign, several new monasteries were reestablished within the Argeș Diocese, at Stănișoara, Ostrov, Turnu etc.\n\nIt was under Ghenadie's direction that restoration work was completed on Curtea de Argeș Cathedral, receiving words of praise from a visiting King of Romania, Carol I. Ghenadie oversaw the (re)building of an Orthodox Seminary in Curtea de Argeș, and, in 1888, contributed to the new reliquary of Dimitrie Basarabov. The artifact, of fine silver, was paid for with Ghenadie's personal revenue and with funds collected from his congregation, and specially crafted by famed Russian Romanian silversmith Teodor Filipov. Ghenadie also oversaw the creation of a new reliquary to host the remains of Saint Filofteia.\n\nThe bishop's religious life was doubled by involvement in secular activities. Dobrescu-Argeș credits Ghenadie Petrescu with having been an active participant in all public works done for the benefit of the region, from the boulevard cutting across Curtea de Argeș to the railway network which connected it to the world. Dobrescu-Argeș received money from Ghendie to set up, at Mușătești, \"the first printing press and bookbinder ever to have functioned in a rural commune.\" After 1888, there was even an interest in spiritism: Ghenadie is recorded as one of the regular guests of writer and National Liberal polemicist Bogdan Petriceicu Hasdeu, attending séances where Theodor Speranția was the medium. From 1889, Ghenadie also published 8 volumes of anthology, \"Acte și documente privind renașterea României\" (\"Papers and Documents on the Rebirth of Romania\"). The latter project had been a cherished dream of National Liberal politician and amateur historian Dimitrie A. Sturdza, and sought to provide readers with a guide to Romania's 19th century.\n\nBishop Ghenadie was a candidate for the Metropolitan seat in 1885, and gained significant support. Dobrescu-Argeș later claimed that Ghenadie withdrew from the race after the National Liberal lobby, who supported Iosif Gheorghidan for the position, asked him to do so; there was no grudge preserved between the two contestants, with Ghenadie canvassing votes for Iosif. When Metropolitan Iosif resigned in early 1893, Ghenadie was one of the first choices for the seat: in May, the Synod and Parliament of Romania both voted him in as leader the Romanian Church. Since Ghenadie lacked formal training, the regulation on such appointments had to be modified. He received his investiture from King Carol I, on May 21.\n\nGhenadie's short rule witnessed few national events. It is however remembered as the time when Romania's royal family, a Hohenzollern branch, had its first born-Orthodox members: Ghenadie personally baptized Carol and Elisabeth, the children of heir-apparent Ferdinand. Once ordained Metropolitan, Ghenadie did not interrupt his activities as a scholar, and, in 1894, published \"Evangheliile. Studiu istorico-literar și Autenticitatea Evangheliilor în genere\" (\"The Gospels. A Historical-Literary Study and On the Overall Authenticity of the Gospels\"). He was still preoccupied with church art and architecture, and, in 1894, arranged for the restoration of Bucharest's Darvari Skete.\n\nGhenadie held a \"de jure\" seat in the Senate of Romania, and was President of the Naturalization Commission, which mainly assessed requests made by non-emancipated Romanian Jews. He was thus involved in the controversy surrounding Lazăr Șăineanu (\"Lazare Sainéan\"), a Jewish scholar whose application was repeatedly rejected by the antisemitic lobby. Șăineanu was at the time still supported by his fellow linguist Hasdeu, and noted that the three of them spent a few days' vacation in Câmpina. Although the Ghenadie's Commission ruled in his favor (December 1893), the decision to naturalize Șăineanu was blocked out by National Liberal leaders such as Dimitrie Sturdza and V. A. Urechia.\n\nThe period also brought another scandal: Ghenadie found himself at odds with parts of the establishment, at a time when the Orthodox Church was being governed under a new statute, allowing for extended public control exercised by civilian members of the Synod. The statute was hotly opposed by members of the clergy: as Protosyngel Miron Cristea noted in 1909, Ghenadie's rule coincided with a nadir for the nation's clergymen. Metropolitan Iosif's own criticism of such legislation, as endorsed by the Conservatives, had been a factor in his decision to leave office. Shortly before coming to power as Prime Minister, Sturdza spoke out against the new legislation.\n\nThe clash between the Metropolitan and the civil administration was followed the baptism of Crown Prince Carol. Ghenadie selected the baptismal font, a relic of the Domnița Bălașa Church collection, and, following the ceremony, offered it as a gift to King Carol; he later tried to console Domnița Bălașa priests by sending them a replica of the font. According to one account, the Metropolitan also alienated his royal hosts by not making an exception to the Orthodox custom of administering the baptism, which involved sinking their baby into the font. A parallel conflict, resonating throughout the Balkans, took place between Ghenadie and Neophytus VIII, the Ecumenical Patriarch of Constantinople. It reflected mounting tension between Greeks, represented by Neophytus' Greek Orthodox Church, and Aromanians, who were under Romanian state protection. On official visit to the Aromanians of Macedonia, Metropolitan Ghenadie held mass in the Romanian vernacular, prompting the Patriarch to demand that the Romanian Synod sanction its leader.\n\nAnother point of contention was Ghenadie's relationship with Premier Sturdza. The Conservatives believed that, in seeking to display his friendship for Ghenadie, the Premier was being hypocritical. This point of view is expressed in \"O lichea\" (\"A Scoundrel\" or \"A Stain\"), a lampoon by Conservative opinion maker Ion Luca Caragiale, who alleged that, once designated head of cabinet, Sturdza embarrassed the church by insisting to prostrate himself in front of its leader. Although equivocal, the piece remains one of Caragiale's most charged and crudest articles.\n\nAccording to theologian Paul Brusanowski, Sturdza's arrival to power inaugurated an irregular \"companionship\" between the leader of the cabinet and the leader of the church. Ghenadie broke tradition when he invited Sturdza to attend a meeting of the Safta Brâncoveanu Foundation, the church's main charity outlet. This vexed other stakeholders, in particular the Bibescu and Știrbei families of donors, and Ghenadie replied to their objections by cutting off the church's share in the budget.\n\nWhile Sturdza withdrew from the affair so as not to provoke the king's anger, the Bibescus took steps to place Ghenadie under church indictment. The Synod put Ghenadie on trial (an abusive trial, according to some later commentators) at its Sf. Dumitru Church quarters. On May 20, 1896, it decided to strip Ghenadie of his ecclesiastical office, and initially defrocked him altogether.\n\nGhenadie's dismissal was especially controversial: according to \"Familia\", the event \"shook temperaments\" in Bucharest and made \"a lively impression\" on Transylvanian observers. The same paper noted \"great agitation\" in Romania, and cited official protests from within the Conservative opposition and the breakaway faction of Nicolae Fleva. While some early commentators noted that, above all, the dismissal was a political move, Paul Brusanowski argues that the ousted church leader was the one maneuvering through his political connections. According to Brusanowski, Fleva's conflict with Sturdza and his alliance with the Conservatives were entirely provoked by Ghenadie, in an attempt to preserve his position. Another voice to make public its support for the cause, in hopes that the government would topple, was Conservative figure Take Ionescu, who spoke for a larger group of Bucharest citizens. A notorious defender of Ghenadie was Alexandru Macedonski, the rebellious poet and journalist. Especially for the purpose, he created the propaganda gazette \"Liga Ortodoxă\" (\"The Orthodox League\"). He was joined in this effort by Fleva and by various other public figures: journalist Eugen Vaian, poet Tudor Arghezi, writer and future priest Gala Galaction.\n\nIn June 1896, Ghenadie received an order from the Attorney General to vacate the Metropolitan's Palace. He objected, arguing that the Synod had broken the governing law, and stating that he would only leave if presented with a Royal Decree. As a consequence, Ghenadie was taken into custody by the authorities, driven out of the Palace through a side door, and taken by Romanian Police carriage to Căldărușani Monastery, where his banishment came in effect. Reportedly, the prosecutors caused embarrassment when they also proceeded to evacuate Ghenadie's friends and supporters, including Conservative politico Lascăr Catargiu, out of the repossessed building. A while after, Carol signed a Royal Decree confirming his government's decision, and the interim leadership was left to a triumvirate of bishops: Partenie Clinceni, Iosif Naniescu, Gherasim Timuș.\n\nThe central press covered the clash with much interest, especially as Ghenadie's place of exile was initially kept a secret. Criticized for its sensationalism, \"Adevărul\" daily sent reporter Vespasian Pella on Ghenadie's trail immediately after the Palace incidents, and, on the next day, published Pella's exclusive interview with the former Metropolitan. Sympathetic journalists and politicians coalesced, organizing a pilgrimage to Căldărușani and a rally at Bucharest's Dacia Hall (said to have been one of the most important gatherings of the period). The orators included Conservatives such as Fleva and Alexandru Lahovary, alongside disgruntled Liberals (Gheorghe Gh. Mârzescu, George D. Pallade).\n\nAngry, sometimes violent, protests continued in Bucharest for the next few months, peaking on November 18. At that moment, the pro-Ghenadie crowd attempted to storm into Senate and were met with excessive force by the Gendarmes, leading to a street battle in front of University quarters. The matter was only solved by a new National Liberal cabinet, presided upon by Petre S. Aurelian and having Vasile Lascăr as head of Internal Affairs. This new administration, formed around National Liberals who opposed Sturdza, was entirely dedicated to a new settlement in the Ghenadie affair. Lascăr, who took credit for the pacification, later claimed that the Conservatives had been stoking the fire of popular discontent without assuming the responsibilities.\nIn short while, pilgrimages to Căldărușani became the object of derision: in one instance, a group of eccentric high school students passing themselves off as the press made a noisy descent on the monastery, dined at the monks' expense, and even arranged an interview with Ghenadie. The prank was organized by friends Urmuz, the future writer, and by George Ciprian, later a comedian and playwright. As Ciprian recalled in the 1950s, Ghenadie was not upset when uncovering their subterfuge, and spoke to them about the injustices of his dismissal.\n\nDespite receiving strong support, Ghenadie formally obeyed the Synod's orders. Instead, he attacked the decision on legal grounds, hired himself a team of lawyers, and went to court. In the end, the Synod decided to overturn the defrocking, but Ghenadie was no longer fighting for recognition. On December 4, 1896, he was even formally reinstated, but withdrew on the same day. Iosif Gheorghidan returned to the Metropolitan seat for a second reign.\n\nMacedonski was surprised by this turn of events. He shut down \"Liga Ortodoxă\", and, in 1898, published the brochure \"Falimentul clerului ortodox român\" (\"The Bankruptcy of the Romanian Orthodox Clergy\"), with such verdicts as: \"however vile a clergy may be, [it] will not go bankrupt lest its leader force it into bankruptcy.\" Macedonski suggested that the entire scenario was undignified, noting that, in Catholicism, Church leaders were still refusing to sign a demeaning concordat with the Italian Kingdom; he called Ghenadie's legal battle \"ridiculous\". The poet's sense of frustration also led him to compose a \"Psalm of Ghenadie\".\n\nIn Catholic circles, Ghenadie's dismissal was reported as a clue that the Orthodox Church was in crisis. \"Das Vaterland\" journal, published in neighboring Austria-Hungary by the Christian Social movement, announced: \"all this quarrel between bishop and synod, and the entire situation of the Romanian church, is a new supporting argument for old experienced fact, namely that the Eastern Church, as broken away from Rome, shall never flourish, but will advance resolutely toward internal and external decomposition.\" Ghenadie's guilt was under constant reassessment by the Synod, reflecting political competitions outside the Romanian Orthodox Church. According to Miron Cristea, the institution shamed itself further by yielding to outside pressures, particularly since the Synod appeared unconvinced about the truth of its own convictions: \"Only in a state of decay can one proceed in this manner.\" Similarly, Brusanowski argues: \"the Synod [was forced] to render two mutually exclusive verdicts. It is therefore blasphemous and a sign of disrespect to state, as some prelates have done repeatedly [...], that all decisions of an episcopal Synod are inspired by the Holy Ghost.\"\n\nIn compensation for the loss of his see, Ghenadie was appointed a lifetime \"Starets\" of his place of exile, with a special law passed in 1909. He took an active part in restoring and refurbishing the monastery complex, which had been heavily damaged by time, and intervened on sites outside his jurisdiction. Early on, in 1904, he intervened at Zamfira Monastery, where he demanded that the murals done by painter Nicolae Grigorescu be covered up with tempera artwork—his order was obeyed, and the result remains one of the most controversial acts. Some have described it as virtually an act of vandalism, and, 50 years later, the process was reverted on church orders. Ghenadie requested, and received, King Carol's patronage for the Căldărușani restoration works (begun in 1908), and hired artist D. Belizarie to recondition its archaic murals. In 1915, he personally oversaw the festive reopening of Căldărușani Church.\n\nGhenadie Petrescu was honored by Bucharest citizens, his name assigned to a street downtown—the present-day Labirint Street. In 2009, author Ioana Pârvulescu made the deposed Metropolitan a character in her historical novel \"Viața începe vineri\" (\"Life Begins on Friday\").\n\n"}
{"id": "15915854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15915854", "title": "Government of Greece", "text": "Government of Greece\n\nGovernment of Greece (officially: Government of the Hellenic Republic; also Greek Government or Hellenic Government) is the government of the Third Hellenic Republic, reformed to its present form in 1974.\n\nThe head of government is the Prime Minister of Greece. He recommends ministers and deputy ministers to the President of the Republic for an appointment. The prime minister, the ministers, and the alternate ministers belong to the Ministerial Council, the supreme decision-making committee. Usually, ministers and alternates sit in the Parliament. They are accountable to the Constitution. Deputy ministers are not members of the government.\n\nOther collective government bodies, apart from the Ministerial Council, are the Committee on Institutions, the Government Council for Foreign Affairs and Defence and others, including particular government policy issues.\n\nThe flag of Greece consists of nine horizontal, alternating blue and white stripes, with a white cross on a blue field in the upper left.\n\nThe number of stripes represents the number of syllables for the phrase \"Ελευθερία ή Θάνατος\", meaning \"Freedom or Death\".\n"}
{"id": "52930636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52930636", "title": "Hilde Behrend", "text": "Hilde Behrend\n\nHilde Behrend (13 August 1917 – 11 January 2000) was an economist, known for her research into industrial relations and the motivational differences between workers.\n\nHilde Behrend was born on 13 August 1917 in Berlin, Germany. Her father, , was a physics and mathematics teacher and well known educationalist, who was demoted and dismissed by the Nazis, due to his Jewish heritage. Her brother, , became a mathematician. \n\nIn 1936, aged 19 years old, Behrend moved to London. She first worked as a secretary, but in 1941 she started at the London School of Economics to study economics. Here, she won the University of London's Metcalfe scholarship for women and graduated with honours in economics in 1944. After finishing her degree, she taught German and French at a grammar school, before starting work as a research assistant for Professor Sargant Florence at the University of Birmingham.\n\nBehrend completed her PhD on 'Absence Under Full Employment' at Birmingham, before moving to the University of Edinburgh in 1954, to take up a research lectureship at the new social sciences research centre led by Professor John Macmurray. She remained at Edinburgh for the whole of her academic career.\n\nBehrend's research focused primarily on labour and industrial relations, in particular the interrelationships between economics and psychology in understanding how people operate at work. She coined the phrase 'effort bargaining', in relation to her research into the ways in which workers relate their effort to the pay they receive. She also came up with the 'blue Monday index' which measures the difference between Monday’s and Friday’s absence rates, and how these voluntary absence varied by types of worker.\n\n"}
{"id": "37312856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37312856", "title": "Investment Trust Companies (in liq) v HM Revenue and Customs", "text": "Investment Trust Companies (in liq) v HM Revenue and Customs\n\nInvestment Trust Companies v HMRC [2012] EWHC 458 (Ch) is an English unjust enrichment law case, concerning to what extent enrichment of the defendant must be at the expense of the claimant.\n\nThe Investment Trust Companies (ITC), closed end investment trusts who got investment management services from management companies, sued to recover overpaid VAT from the HMRC. The managers usually got paid by fees plus VAT. It was thought there was no exemption possible, and VAT was charged at a standard rate. But then the ECJ said in 2007 the services should have been exempt from VAT since 1 January 1990. The litigation had begun in 2004, and at that point the managers claimed VAT refunds from 2001 to 2004. The claims were not made for any earlier accounting periods because the Value Added Tax Act 1994 section 80(4) installed a three year limitation period. HMRC repaid net amounts (because s 80(2A) required a set off from deductions of input tax already made for supplying services).\nAfter \"Fleming (t/a Bodycraft) v Customs and Excise Commissioners\" [2008] UKHL 2, more refund claims were allowed going back to 4 December 1996. ITC claimed they had a remedy for restitution, that this claim was not excluded by the VATA 1994 section 80(7), and that EU law gave an effective right to reimbursement.\n\nHenderson J held the HMRC was enriched by the full VAT amount at the expense of the ITCs. The unjust factor was the mistake of law that the VAT was due, and there was a causal link between the mistake, the payments and the Commissioners’ enrichment. But the claims were all barred by VATA 1994 section 80(7) whose purpose was a strict time limit. As end users of management services ITC could have rights under EU law, following \"Danfoss\" and \"Reemtsma\". There should be a direct remedy, but subject to limitation defences. These were \"San Giorgio\" claims, and there was no need to confine the claimant to \"Francovich v Italy\" damages.\n\n"}
{"id": "6689555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6689555", "title": "Irish trade mark law", "text": "Irish trade mark law\n\nIrish trade mark law is the trade mark law of Ireland. It was last amended on 1 July 1996 when it was updated to conform to the relevant European Union directives.\n"}
{"id": "50395768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50395768", "title": "Law practice manager", "text": "Law practice manager\n\nA law practice manager, sometimes described as a legal practice manager or director of practice support, is a person with managerial responsibilities at a law firm. The duties of a law practice manager will depend upon the specific role and its purpose.\n\nA partner) in a law firm may hold management responsibilities and will usually also engage in fee earning work. The Partner with overall responsibility for the management of a law firm is usually known as the Managing Partner. It is also possible that a law practice manager will be a non-lawyer employee of a firm, under the supervision of the law firm's managing partner or director.\n\nIn the UK, managers and owners of law firms may also be the Director of a Company, or a Sole Practitioner - a solicitor who usually works alone and has sole responsibility for their work as a lawyer and for the operation of their business.\n\nManagers at law firms may also hold specific responsibilities within law firms such as Human Resources, Information Technology, or Marketing and Business Development.\n\nDuties vary between law firms, but they may include any of the following responsibilities.\n\n\n\nCompleting indemnity insurance renewals. Practice certificate renewals, Lexcel adherence and implementation of new plans and policies. Lender panel applications.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40849223", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40849223", "title": "Liebenberg v The Master", "text": "Liebenberg v The Master\n\nIn Liebenberg v The Master, an important case in South African succession law, the testator signed his will (which was one page long) at the top of the page and not the bottom. The court held that the will was valid, as the Wills Act does not specify where on the page the signature must be- just that every page must be signed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37782982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37782982", "title": "Lisbon Protocol", "text": "Lisbon Protocol\n\nThe Lisbon Protocol to the 1991 Strategic Arms Reduction Treaty was an agreement by representatives of Russia, Belarus, Ukraine, and Kazakhstan that all nuclear weapons of the former Soviet Union on the soil of those four states would be destroyed or transferred to the control of Russia. All four states agreed to join the Treaty on the Non-Proliferation of Nuclear Weapons, with Russia the successor to the Soviet Union as a nuclear state, and the other three states joining as non-nuclear states. The protocol was signed in Lisbon, Portugal, on May 23, 1992.\n\nWhen the Soviet Union dissolved on December 26, 1991, one of the issues was the fate of its nuclear weapons. Most were in the territory of Russia, the recognized successor state to the Soviet Union, but some were in the territories of Belarus, Ukraine, and Kazakhstan. In July 1991, the Soviet Union had signed the START I nuclear disarmament treaty. Russia, as the successor state, would not be able to fulfill the terms of the treaty until all of the other states possessing Soviet nuclear weapons had either destroyed those weapons or transferred them to Russian control. The United States and Russia applied diplomatic pressure to achieve those objects.\n\nAlthough Belarus, Ukraine, and Kazakhstan had signed the protocol in May 1992, each state had to ratify and implement the protocol. In Belarus and Ukraine, there was some resistance to giving up nuclear arms. However, on December 5, 1994, all signatories to the Lisbon Protocol exchanged instruments of ratification, and the agreement came into force. At this time, Russia was also able to ratify START I as the successor state to the Soviet Union.\n\nKazakhstan's government was more interested in focusing resources on the country's development rather than on maintenance of a nuclear arsenal. In return for security guarantees, military aid, and financial assistance and compensation from the United States and Russia, Kazakhstan had surrendered all nuclear weapons to Russia by May 1995. Both Belarus and Ukraine resisted full implementation of the protocol during the 1990s, wishing to retain a nuclear deterrent force or a diplomatic bargaining chip. However, Belarus was economically dependent on Russia and eventually carried out its agreement to transfer all nuclear weapons to Russia. Like Kazakhstan, Ukraine eventually agreed to surrender its nuclear weapons in exchange for security guarantees, military aid, financial assistance, and compensation from the United States and Russia. Implementation of the Lisbon Protocol was complete when both Belarus and Ukraine had surrendered their nuclear weapons to Russia by the end of 1996.\n\n"}
{"id": "1220246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1220246", "title": "London Straits Convention", "text": "London Straits Convention\n\nIn the London Straits Convention concluded on 13 July 1841 between the Great Powers of Europe at the time—Russia, the United Kingdom, France, Austria and Prussia—the \"ancient rule\" of the Ottoman Empire was re-established by closing the Turkish Straits (the Bosporus and Dardanelles), which link the Black Sea to the Mediterranean, from all warships whatsoever, barring those of the Sultan's allies during wartime. It thus benefited British naval power at the expense of Russia as the latter lacked direct access for its navy to the Mediterranean.\n\nThe treaty is one in a series dealing with access to the Bosporus, the Sea of Marmara, and the Dardanelles. It evolved as a reaction to the secret article in the Treaty of Hünkâr İskelesi (Unkiar Skelessi), created in 1833, in which the Ottoman Empire guaranteed exclusive use of the straits to Ottoman and Imperial Russian warships in the case of a general war, allowing no 'foreign vessels of war to enter therein under any pretext whatsoever'. The modern treaty controlling relations is the Montreux Convention Regarding the Regime of the Straits from 1936, which is still in force.\n\nThe Straits Convention was an agreement between the major powers to strengthen the Ottoman Empire. It evolved from the earlier Treaty of the Dardanelles, signed between Britain and the Ottomans in 1809.\n\nBeginning in 1831, Egypt, under the leadership of Muhammad Ali of Egypt, was revolting against the Ottoman Empire, resulting in the Egyptian–Ottoman War (1831–33). Russian Tsar, Nicholas I, chose to support the Ottomans. In 1833, Russia sent a naval force and troops to support the Ottoman defense of Constantinople. Britain was likewise supporting the Ottoman Empire.\n\nNevertheless, Russia was then the Ottomans' principal ally; the two countries signed the Treaty of Hünkâr İskelesi, which reflected this alliance. The Treaty guaranteed that the Ottomans would close the Straits to foreign warships if and when Russia was under threat, and requested this.\n\nStill, the hostility between the Turks and the Egyptians continued in 1839, resulting in the Egyptian–Ottoman War (1839–41). The Egyptians again threatened the Ottoman positions. Lord Palmerston of Britain called for talks with Russia, Austria, and Prussia in London in 1840. This resulted in the Convention of London (1840).\n\nEfforts were made to convince France, which tended to side with Mehmet, to accept a multilateral agreement. This evolved into the Straits Convention of 1841, which included guarantees similar to those of the 1809 Treaty of the Dardanelles, also extending the 1840 Convention of London.\n\nThe motivation of Czar (Tsar) Nicholas I to agree to the closing of the straits has been said to be his uneasiness over the Treaty of \"Hünkâr İskelesi\", which he feared might turn the other Great Powers against Russia by creating too close an alliance between him and the Sultan, Abdülmecid I. He also authorised the British Navy to quell the attack on the Ottoman Empire by its former vassal, Muhammad Ali. However, Anglo-Russian tensions over the region remained, leading eventually to the Crimean War.\n\nFrom the British point of view, this convention helped preserve the European balance of power by preventing Russia's newly powerful navy from dominating the Mediterranean. From the Russian point of view, the treaty encouraged the aggressive policies of Britain in the region, which would lead to the Crimean War. Different interpretations, as well as history of British-Russian relations in the 1840s, suggest that the Straits Convention 'appeared to establish a new era of harmony' between both powers, keeping Russian navy out of the Mediterranean and British out of the Black Sea.\n\nWhile these arrangements forced Czar (Tsar) Nicholas I to abandon his plans for reducing the Ottoman Empire to complete dependence upon Russia and wresting the control of the Christian countries of the Balkans from the Porte, the Ottoman Empire was not wholly independent after the convention, as it relied on Britain and France for protection.\n\n"}
{"id": "58600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58600", "title": "Manual for Courts-Martial", "text": "Manual for Courts-Martial\n\nThe Manual for Courts-Martial (MCM) is the official guide to the conduct of courts-martial in the United States military. An Executive Order of the President of the United States, the \"MCM\" details and expands on the military law in the Uniform Code of Military Justice (UCMJ). The \"MCM\" contains five parts plus 27 appendices.\n\nOn 8 December 2016, the Federal Register published the 2016 Manual for Courts-Martial with all recent changes.</ref>\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7301463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7301463", "title": "Minergie", "text": "Minergie\n\nMinergie is a registered quality label for new and refurbished low-energy-consumption buildings. This label is mutually supported by the Swiss Confederation, the Swiss Cantons and the Principality of Liechtenstein along with Trade and Industry. The label is registered in Switzerland and around the world and is thus protected against unlicensed use. The Minergie label may only be used for buildings, services and components that actually meet the Minergie standard.\n\nBuilding to Minergie standards means providing high-grade, air-tight building envelopes and the continuous renewal of air in the building using an energy-efficient ventilation system. Specific energy consumption is used as the main indicator to quantify the required building quality. In this way, a reliable assessment can be assured. Only the final energy consumed is relevant.\n\nAt present around 13% of new buildings and 2% of refurbishment projects are Minergie certified. These are mostly residential buildings. The goals of the Swiss national SwissEnergy#Infrastructure and environment programme call for 20% of new construction and 5-10% of refurbishment projects to be Minergie certified.\n\nThe Minergie standard is somewhat comparable to German KfW40 (new buildings) and KfW60 (refurbishment) standards.\n\nThe Minergie idea was developed in 1994 by Heinz Uebersax and Ruedi Kriesi, and the first two Minergie houses were realized in that same year. Minergie was registered as a trademark to prevent misuse. In 1997 it was acquired by the Swiss Cantons Zurich and Berne. In 1998 the present Minergie Association was founded, and its first standard, the Minergie label for low-energy-consumption buildings, was published. At the end of 2001, a further, more stringent standard for so-called passive housing was introduced, Minergie-P. Since then, further applications of the label have been defined, such as those for specific building components.\n\nCertification is done on the basis of planning values and thus offers no guarantee that these values are actually met. Research by the University of Applied Sciences, Business and Social Work in St. Gallen, Switzerland, has proven that refurbishment projects and single-family homes are better than the standard. Larger residential buildings sometimes do not quite meet the standards.\n\nMainly, Minergie recommends the construction of compact, well-insulated and air-tight buildings in order to attain good energy consumption standards. The buildings must be fitted with an automatic air-renewal system with heat recovery. A fee is charged for certification. (These are: 900 Swiss Francs for houses that are less than 500m; 1100 Francs for equivalently-sized commercial projects; and 1600, 3500 and 10,000 for projects between 500 and 2000 metres squared, 2000 and 5000, and over 5000 metres squared, respectively.)\n\nFor all categories of building except newly built single-family homes the expected energy consumption per surface area must be declared and verified. For new single-family homes and apartment blocks 38 kWh/m²/annum must not be exceeded. For refurbishment projects the limiting value is 60 kWh/m²/annum. For reasons of simplicity, energy consumption for hot water preparation is included in these figures. For buildings at altitudes above 800 m, the limit values are increased. New buildings must also leak less than or equal to 0.9 air changes per hour at 50 pascal.\nDepending on the building's category, various additional requirements are made: For single-family homes and apartment blocks, restaurants and indoor pools a ventilation system with heat recovery is compulsory.In this way, it can be guaranteed that Minergie buildings are not only energy-saving, but also are considered comfortable by their residents. For offices, schools and sales premises, an energy-efficient lighting concept according to the Swiss SIA 380/4 standard is prescribed.\n\nFive simplified standard solutions are available for single-family homes. These are:\n\n\nIn addition, a high level of insulation is recommended. A ventilation system with heat-recovery is also called for.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42976779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42976779", "title": "NKVD", "text": "NKVD\n\nThe People's Commissariat for Internal Affairs (, \"Narodnyy Komissariat Vnutrennikh Del\"), abbreviated NKVD ( ), was the interior ministry of the Soviet Union.\n\nEstablished in 1917 as NKVD of Russian SFSR, the agency was originally tasked with conducting regular police work and overseeing the country's prisons and labor camps. It was disbanded in 1930, with its functions being dispersed among other agencies, only to be reinstated as an all-union ministry in 1934.\n\nThe functions of the OGPU (the secret police organization) were transferred to the NKVD in 1934, giving it a monopoly over law enforcement activities that lasted until the end of World War II. During this period, the NKVD included both ordinary public order activities, as well as secret police activities. The NKVD is known for its role in political repression and for carrying out the Great Purge under Joseph Stalin. Mobile gas vans were used to execute people without trial during the Great Purge. It was led by Genrikh Yagoda, Nikolai Yezhov and Lavrentiy Beria.\n\nThe NKVD undertook mass extrajudicial executions of untold numbers of citizens, and conceived, populated and administered the Gulag system of forced labour camps. Their agents were responsible for the repression of the wealthier peasantry, as well as the mass deportations of entire nationalities to uninhabited regions of the country. They oversaw the protection of Soviet borders and espionage (which included political assassinations), and enforced Soviet policy in communist movements and puppet governments in other countries, most notably the repression and massacres in Poland.\n\nIn March 1946 all People's Commissariats were renamed to Ministries, and the NKVD became the Ministry of Internal Affairs (MVD).\n\nAfter the Russian February Revolution of 1917, the Provisional Government dissolved the Tsarist police and set up the \"People's Militsiya\". The subsequent Russian October Revolution of 1917 saw a seizure of state power led by Lenin and the Bolsheviks, who established a new Bolshevik regime, the Russian Soviet Federative Socialist Republic (RSFSR). The Provisional Government's Ministry of Internal Affairs (MVD), formerly under Georgy Lvov (from March 1917) and then under Nikolai Avksentiev (from ) and Alexei Nikitin (from ), turned into NKVD (People's Commissariat of Internal Affairs) under a People's Commissar. However, the NKVD apparatus was overwhelmed by duties inherited from MVD, such as the supervision of the local governments and firefighting, and the \"Workers' and Peasants' Militsiya\" staffed by proletarians was largely inexperienced and unqualified. Realizing that it was left with no capable security force, the Council of People's Commissars of the RSFSR established () a secret political police, the \"Cheka\", led by Felix Dzerzhinsky. It gained the right to undertake quick non-judicial trials and executions, if that was deemed necessary in order to \"protect the Russian Socialist-Communist revolution\".\n\nThe \"Cheka\" was reorganized in 1922 as the State Political Directorate, or GPU, of the NKVD of the RSFSR. In 1922 the USSR formed, with the RSFSR as its largest member. The GPU became the OGPU (Joint State Political Directorate), under the Council of People's Commissars of the USSR. The NKVD of the RSFSR retained control of the \"militsiya\", and various other responsibilities.\n\nIn 1934 the NKVD of the RSFSR was transformed into an all-union security force, the NKVD (which the Communist Party of the Soviet Union leaders soon came to call \"the leading detachment of our party\"), and the OGPU was incorporated into the NKVD as the Main Directorate for State Security (GUGB); the separate NKVD of the RSFSR was not resurrected until 1946 (as the MVD of the RSFSR). As a result, the NKVD also took over control of all detention facilities (including the forced labor camps, known as the GULag) as well as the regular police. At various times, the NKVD had the following Chief Directorates, abbreviated as \"ГУ\"– , .\n\nUntil the reorganization begun by Nikolai Yezhov with a purge of the regional political police in the autumn of 1936 and formalized by a May 1939 directive of the All-Union NKVD by which all appointments to the local political police were controlled from the center, there was frequent tension between centralized control of local units and the collusion of those units with local and regional party elements, frequently resulting in the thwarting of Moscow's plans.\n\nFollowing its establishment in 1934, the NKVD underwent many organizational changes; between 1938 and 1939 alone, the NKVD's structure and leadership changed three times.\n\nDuring Yezhov's time in office, the Great Purge reached its height from the years 1937 and 1938 alone, at least 1.3 million were arrested and 681,692 were executed for 'crimes against the state'. The Gulag population swelled by 685,201 under Yezhov, nearly tripling in size in just two years, with at least 140,000 of these prisoners (and likely many more) dying of malnutrition, exhaustion and the elements in the camps (or during transport to them).\n\nOn 3 February 1941, the 4th Department (Special Section, OO) of GUGB NKVD security service responsible for the Soviet Armed Forces military counter-intelligence, consisting of 12 Sections and one Investigation Unit, was separated from GUGB NKVD USSR.<br> The official liquidation of OO GUGB within NKVD was announced on 12 February by a joint order № 00151/003 of NKVD and NKGB USSR. The rest of GUGB was abolished and staff was moved to newly created People's Commissariat for State Security (NKGB). Departments of former GUGB were renamed Directorates. For example, foreign intelligence unit known as Foreign Department (shortcut- INO) became Foreign Directorate (INU); GUGB political police unit represented by Secret Political Department (SPO) became Secret Political Directorate (SPU), and so on. The former GUGB 4th Department (OO) was split into three sections. One section, which handled military counter-intelligence in NKVD troops (former 11th Section of GUGB 4th Department OO) become 3rd NKVD Department or OKR (Otdel KontrRazvedki), the chief of OKR NKVD was Aleksander Belyanov.<br> \nAfter the German invasion of the Soviet Union (June 1941),the NKGB USSR was abolished and on July 20, 1941 the units that formed NKGB becomes part of NKVD USSR. The military CI was also upgraded from department to directorate and pot in NKVD organization as (Directorate of Special Departments or UOO NKVD USSR). The only section did not return to UOO NKVD till 11 of January 1942 was one responsible for counterintelligence in NKVMF (Navy). It returned to NKVD control in January 11 1942 as UOO 9th Department controlled by P. Gladkov. . In April 1943 Directorate of Special Departments was transformed in to SMERSH and transferred to People's Defense and Commissariates. \nThe same time, the NKVD was reduced in size and duties again by creating NKGB as independent State \nSecurity Commissariate. \nIn 1946, all Soviet Commissariats were renamed \"ministries\". Accordingly, the Peoples Commissariat of Internal Affairs (NKVD) of the USSR became the Ministry of Internal Affairs (MVD), while the NKGB was renamed as the Ministry of State Security (MGB). In 1953, after the arrest of Lavrenty Beria, the MGB merged back into the MVD. The police and security services finally split in 1954 to become:\n\n\n\nIn 1935–1945 Main Directorate of State Security of NKVD had its own ranking system before it was merged in the Soviet military standardized ranking system.\n\n1 – 1943; 2 – 1943–1945.\n\nThe main function of the NKVD was to protect the state security of the Soviet Union. This role was accomplished through massive political repression, including authorised murders of many thousands of politicians and citizens, as well as kidnappings, assassinations and mass deportations.\n\nIn implementing Soviet internal policy towards perceived enemies of the Soviet state (\"enemies of the people\"), untold multitudes of people were sent to GULAG camps and hundreds of thousands were executed by the NKVD. Formally, most of these people were convicted by NKVD troikas (\"triplets\")– special courts martial. Evidential standards were very low: a tip-off by an anonymous informer was considered sufficient grounds for arrest. Use of \"physical means of persuasion\" (torture) was sanctioned by a special decree of the state, which opened the door to numerous abuses, documented in recollections of victims and members of the NKVD itself. Hundreds of mass graves resulting from such operations were later discovered throughout the country. Documented evidence exists that the NKVD committed mass extrajudicial executions, guided by secret \"plans\". Those plans established the number and proportion of victims (officially \"public enemies\") in a given region (e.g. the quotas for clergy, former nobles etc., regardless of identity). The families of the repressed, including children, were also automatically repressed according to NKVD Order no. 00486.\n\nThe purges were organized in a number of waves according to the decisions of the Politburo of the Communist Party. Some examples are the campaigns among engineers (Shakhty Trial), party and military elite plots (Great Purge with Order 00447), and medical staff (\"Doctors' Plot\").\n\nA number of mass operations of the NKVD were related to the prosecution of whole ethnic categories. For example, the Polish Operation of the NKVD in 1937–1938 resulted in the execution of 111,091 Poles. Whole populations of certain ethnicities were forcibly resettled. Foreigners living in the Soviet Union were given particular attention. When disillusioned American citizens living in the Soviet Union thronged the gates of the U.S. embassy in Moscow to plead for new U.S. passports to leave USSR (their original U.S. passports had been taken for 'registration' purposes years before), none were issued. Instead, the NKVD promptly arrested all of the Americans, who were taken to Lubyanka Prison and later shot. American factory workers at the Soviet Ford GAZ plant, suspected by Stalin of being 'poisoned' by Western influences, were dragged off with the others to Lubyanka by the NKVD in the very same Ford Model A cars they had helped build, where they were tortured; nearly all were executed or died in labor camps. Many of the slain Americans were dumped in the mass grave at Yuzhnoye Butovo District near Moscow. Even so, the people of the Soviet Republics still formed the majority of NKVD victims[*17][*18].\n\nThe NKVD also served as arm of the Russian Soviet communist government for the lethal mass persecution and destruction of ethnic minorities and religious beliefs, such as the Russian Orthodox Church, the Ukrainian Orthodox Church, the Roman Catholic Church, Greek Catholics, Islam, Judaism and other religious organizations, an operation headed by Yevgeny Tuchkov.\n\nDuring the 1930s, the NKVD was responsible for political murders of those Stalin believed to oppose him. Espionage networks headed by experienced multilingual NKVD officers such as Pavel Sudoplatov and Iskhak Akhmerov were established in nearly every major Western country, including the United States. The NKVD recruited agents for its espionage efforts from all walks of life, from unemployed intellectuals such as Mark Zborowski to aristocrats such as Martha Dodd. Besides the gathering of intelligence, these networks provided organizational assistance for so-called \"wet business\", where enemies of the USSR either disappeared or were openly liquidated.\n\nThe NKVD's intelligence and \"special operations\" (\"Inostranny Otdel\") unit organized overseas assassinations of political enemies of the USSR, such as leaders of nationalist movements, former Tsarist officials, and personal rivals of Joseph Stalin. Among the officially confirmed victims of such plots were:\n\n\nProminent political dissidents were also found dead under highly suspicious circumstances, including Walter Krivitsky, Lev Sedov, Ignace Reiss and former German Communist Party (KPD) member Willi Münzenberg.\n\nThe pro-Soviet leader Sheng Shicai in Xinjiang received NKVD assistance in conducting a purge to coincide with Stalin's Great Purge in 1937. Sheng and the Soviets alleged a massive Trotskyist conspiracy and a \"Fascist Trotskyite plot\" to destroy the Soviet Union. The Soviet Consul General Garegin Apresoff, General Ma Hushan, Ma Shaowu, Mahmud Sijan, the official leader of the Xinjiang province Huang Han-chang and Hoja-Niyaz were among the 435 alleged conspirators in the plot. Xinjiang came under virtual Soviet control. Stalin opposed the Chinese Communist Party.\n\nDuring the Spanish Civil War, NKVD agents, acting in conjunction with the Communist Party of Spain, exercised substantial control over the Republican government, using Soviet military aid to help further Soviet influence. The NKVD established numerous secret prisons around the capital Madrid, which were used to detain, torture, and kill hundreds of the NKVD's enemies, at first focusing on Spanish Nationalists and Spanish Catholics, while from late 1938 increasingly anarchists and Trotskyists were the objects of persecution. In 1937 Andrés Nin, the secretary of the Trotskyist POUM and his colleagues were tortured and killed in an NKVD prison in Barcelona.\n\nPrior to the German invasion, in order to accomplish its own goals, the NKVD was prepared to cooperate even with such organizations as the German Gestapo. In March 1940 representatives of the NKVD and the Gestapo met for one week in Zakopane, to coordinate the pacification of Poland; \"see Gestapo–NKVD Conferences\". For its part, the Soviet Union delivered hundreds of German and Austrian Communists to the Gestapo, as unwanted foreigners, together with their documents. However, many NKVD units were later to fight the Wehrmacht, for example the 10th Rifle Division NKVD, which fought at the Battle of Stalingrad.\n\nAfter the German invasion the NKVD evacuated and killed prisoners.\n\nDuring World War II, NKVD Internal Troops units were used for rear area security, including preventing the retreat of Soviet Union army divisions. Though mainly intended for internal security, NKVD divisions were sometimes used at the front to stem the occurrence of desertion through Stalin's Order No. 270 and Order No. 227 decrees in 1941 and 1942, which aimed to raise troop morale via brutality and coercion. At the beginning of the war the NKVD formed 15 rifle divisions, which had expanded by 1945 to 53 divisions and 28 brigades. A list of identified NKVD Internal Troops divisions can be seen at List of Soviet Union divisions. Though mainly intended for internal security, NKVD divisions were sometimes used in the front-lines, for example during the Battle of Stalingrad and the Crimean Offensive of 1944. Unlike the Waffen-SS, the NKVD did not field any armored or mechanized units.\n\nIn the enemy-held territories, the NKVD carried out numerous missions of sabotage. After fall of Kiev, NKVD agents set fire to the Nazi headquarters and various other targets, eventually burning down much of the city center. Similar actions took place across the occupied Byelorussia and Ukraine.\n\nThe NKVD (later KGB) carried out mass arrests, deportations, and executions. The targets included both collaborators with Germany and non-Communist resistance movements such as the Polish Armia Krajowa and the Ukrainian Insurgent Army aiming to separate from the Soviet Union, among others. The NKVD also executed tens of thousands of Polish political prisoners in 1939–1941, including the Katyń massacre. NKVD units were also used to repress the prolonged partisan war in Ukraine and the Baltics, which lasted until the early 1950s.\n\nAfter the death of Stalin in 1953, the new Soviet leader Nikita Khrushchev halted the NKVD purges. From the 1950s to the 1980s, thousands of victims were legally \"rehabilitated\" (i.e., acquitted and had their rights restored). Many of the victims and their relatives refused to apply for rehabilitation out of fear or lack of documents. The rehabilitation was not complete: in most cases the formulation was \"due to lack of evidence of the case of crime\". Only a limited number of persons were rehabilitated with the formulation \"cleared of all charges\".\n\nVery few NKVD agents were ever officially convicted of the particular violation of anyone's rights. Legally, those agents executed in the 1930s were also \"purged\" without legitimate criminal investigations and court decisions. In the 1990s and 2000s (decade) a small number of ex-NKVD agents living in the Baltic states were convicted of crimes against the local population.\n\nThese included:\n\n\nThe extensive system of labor exploitation in the Gulag made a notable contribution to the Soviet economy and the development of remote areas. Colonization of Siberia, the North and Far East was among the explicitly stated goals in the very first laws concerning Soviet labor camps. Mining, construction works (roads, railways, canals, dams, and factories), logging, and other functions of the labor camps were part of the Soviet planned economy, and the NKVD had its own production plans.\n\nThe most unusual part of the NKVD's achievements was its role in Soviet science and arms development. Many scientists and engineers arrested for political crimes were placed in special prisons, much more comfortable than the Gulag, colloquially known as \"sharashkas\". These prisoners continued their work in these prisons. When later released, some of them became world leaders in science and technology. Among such \"sharashka\" members were Sergey Korolev, the head designer of the Soviet rocket program and first human space flight mission in 1961, and Andrei Tupolev, the famous airplane designer. Aleksandr Solzhenitsyn was also imprisoned in a sharashka, and based his novel \"The First Circle\" on his experiences there.\n\nAfter World War II, the NKVD coordinated work on Soviet nuclear weaponry, under the direction of General Pavel Sudoplatov. The scientists were not prisoners, but the project was supervised by the NKVD because of its great importance and the corresponding requirement for absolute security and secrecy. Also, the project used information obtained by the NKVD from the United States.\n\nThe agency was headed by a people's commissar (minister). His first deputy was the director of State Security Service (GUGB).\n\"Note: In the first half of 1941 Vsevolod Merkulov transformed his agency into separate commissariat (ministry), but it was merged back to the people's commissariat of Interior soon after the Nazi invasion of the Soviet Union. In 1943 Merkulov once again split his agency this time for good.\"\n\nAndrei Zhukov has singlehandedly identified every single NKVD officer involved in 1930s arrests and killings by researching a Moscow archive. There are just over 40,000 names on the list.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7110492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7110492", "title": "National Library of Norway", "text": "National Library of Norway\n\nThe National Library of Norway () was established in 1989. Its principal task is \"to preserve the past for the future\". The library is located both in Oslo and in Mo i Rana. The building in Oslo was restored and reopened in 2005.\n\nPrior to the existence of the National Library, the University Library of Oslo was assigned the tasks that normally fall to a national library.\n\nThe Norwegian ISBN Agency, responsible for assigning ISBNs with prefix 82- and 978-82-, is part of the National Library of Norway. The National Library is also responsible for legal deposits made from publishers in Norway. All material is to be submitted free of charge.\n\nOn 15 August 2005, Norway opened a fully functioning national library for the first time in its history. This occurred exactly 100 years after Norway dissolved its union with Sweden. Although gaining independence in 1905 marked the peak of Norwegian nationalism, it took Norway a century to go from being a sovereign nation-state to establishing its own national library. The establishment of the national library evolved as a result of a lengthy political process. Since 1813, the University of Oslo Library had functioned as both a library for the university and a national library. In 1989, Norway established a repository in Rana in the northern part of the country as part of the national library, with a mandate to preserve everything published within the country in compliance with a revised version of the Legal Deposition Act.The University of Oslo Library retained its mandate to preserve historical and unique collections and to make all its collections available to the public. In 1999, these tasks were consolidated within a newly established branch of the national library in Oslo. Provisional arrangements were made for the period between 1999 and 2005, while the library building was being renovated. In 2005, the national library moved into a renovated building in Oslo, which marked the true beginning for this new national institution. With its reopening in 2005, the national library launched its redesigned website. The institution intended to present itself as a modern library, with both a physical presence and a digital appearance. According to the website, it was to be the premier source of information about Norway, Norwegians and Norwegian culture, and Norway’s main resource for the collection, archiving and distribution of Norwegian media.\n\nNational Library of Norway has started with digitization process in 2006 with a goal to digitize its entire collection. In October 2012 the Minister of Culture, Hadia Tajik, opened the Bokhylla (″Bookshelf″) website at bokhylla.no as a permanent service. When launched, the service offered 104.000 books online out of estimated 250.000 total books published in Norway before the year 2000.\nDigital Library of Norway is sometimes also called NBdigital.\n\nDue to copyright restrictions, Bokhylla applies IP address blocking to some of the books which are available only for Norwegian IP addresses. For access outside Norwegian IP-space, users have to apply through special form.\n\nIn 2013, Bokhylla reported 51 million page views served during 2012, which indicates that, for its users, the National Library of Norway is essentially a digital library.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4373261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4373261", "title": "Occupational Cancer Convention, 1974", "text": "Occupational Cancer Convention, 1974\n\nThe Occupational Cancer Convention is an International Labour Organization Convention, established in 1974 during the 59th session of the Interlnational Labour Conference. The convention entered into force in 1976 after ratification of Ecuador and Hungary. The convention has been ratified by 41 countries.\n\n"}
{"id": "42782224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42782224", "title": "People's Union for Democratic Rights", "text": "People's Union for Democratic Rights\n\nPeople's Union for Democratic Rights is an organisation based in Delhi which is committed to legally defend \"civil liberties and democratic rights\" of the people. The People's Union for Democratic Rights (PUDR) is an independent entity and is not affiliated to any political party or organisation.\n\nThe PUDR was initially formed as the Delhi's unit of the \"People's Union for Civil Liberties and Democratic Rights\" (PUCLDR) in 1977, but the PUCLDR discontinued its activities after the Janata Party's success in the elections, while the PUDR continued to work. The national forum (PUCLDR) was later revived in 1980, but in a \"new form\" and with a new name, PUCL, creating a dichotomous bisection between civil liberties and democratic rights. Later in February 1981, the PUDR opted to function as a separate organisation.\n\n\nThe PUDR has an executive committee that is constituted of 7 members that includes two secretaries and a treasurer. The executive committee is elected every year during the \"Annual General Body Meeting\" by the Secret ballot. Every member of the PUDR is a part of its \"General Body.\" The secretaries of the PUDR in 2013 were Asish Gupta and D. Manjit. Gautam Navlakha is also veteran activist of the PUDR, and has worked as the organisation's secretary as well.\n\nThe PUDR's membership is accorded only to the individuals and is not granted to organisations, based on the precondition that the member concur to the aims and objectives of the PUDR, and would \"work actively and support the programme\" of the PUDR. The applicants are required to get their membership application approved by the executive committee which thereafter has to be renewed annually. The membership fee per year is 10.\n\nThe PUDR raises funds for itself by \"income received from sale of its literature, membership fee, and donations received from members and sympathisers from time to time;\" and does not obtains money from the government, institutions, or political parties. It does not take any financial aid from any source in other countries as well. The members of the PUDR work as volunteers and are not given any payment for their time.\n\n"}
{"id": "44522510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44522510", "title": "Prebble v Television New Zealand Ltd", "text": "Prebble v Television New Zealand Ltd\n\nRichard Prebble v Television New Zealand Ltd [1994] 3 NZLR 1 is a cited case in New Zealand regarding claims in defamation and the defence of parliamentary privilege.\n\nTVNZ's news programme \"Frontline\" aired a show highly critical of the fourth Labour government and minister Richard Prebble's handling of state asset sales.\n\nPrebble found this programme to be defamatory to him, and he sued TVNZ for defamation.\n\nAs part of TVNZ's defence, they tried to include statements made in Parliament by Prebble as evidence against his claim.\n\nIn response, Prebble applied to the courts that under Article 9 of the Bill of Rights 1688, any statements made in Parliament cannot be used in any court.\n\nThe Privy Council ruled that that which had been said in Parliament was privileged, and could not be used by TVNZ as a defence against defamation allegations.\n"}
{"id": "7236683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7236683", "title": "Project Normandy", "text": "Project Normandy\n\nProject Normandy was a top secret Church of Scientology operation wherein the church planned to take over the city of Clearwater, Florida, by infiltrating government offices and media centers. Gabe Cazares, who was the mayor of Clearwater at the time, used the term “the occupation of Clearwater.”\n\nIn the 1970s the Church of Scientology Corporation used a front group called the \"United Churches of Florida\" to purchase the Fort Harrison Hotel for $3 million. The church established their headquarters in the Fort Harrison Hotel and dubbed it their \"Flag Land Base.\"\n\nA 1977 FBI raid on Scientology headquarters uncovered internal Church of Scientology documents marked \"Top Secret\" that referred to their secret operation to take over Clearwater as \"Project Normandy.\" The document itself states its purpose is \"to obtain enough data on the Clearwater area to be able to determine what groups and individuals B1\nwill need to penetrate and handle in order to establish area control.\" The document says its \"Major Target\" is \"To fully investigate the Clearwater city and county area so we can distinguish our friends from our enemies and handle as needed.\"\n\nOn 3 November 1979, the \"Clearwater Sun\" ran an article with the headline \"Scientologists plot city takeover\" and later stories claimed that the Scientologists also had international plans to take over the world. The \"St. Petersburg Times\" won a Pulitzer Prize for one of their stories that exposed some of the criminal wrongdoings of the Church of Scientology. Cazares also noted that he found it odd that a religious group would resort to using code names for a project to take control of a town, and called the project a \"paramilitary operation by a terrorist group.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "54406593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54406593", "title": "Sacramento County Public Law Library", "text": "Sacramento County Public Law Library\n\nThe Sacramento County Public Law Library (SCPLL) is a “public” law library in the capitol city of the State of California. In 1891 the state of California enacted statutes mandating an independent law library in every county. Since its inception SCPLL has provided free public access to legal information.\n\nToday, SCPLL is the sixth largest of California’s 58 member libraries of the Council of California County Law Libraries (CCCLL), a statewide networking and advocacy organization. The organization has an active role in state legislative efforts in support of county law libraries as evidenced in their newsletter.\n\nSCPLL was established on March 31, 1891 in the county courthouse with 6,237 volumes.\n\nSince its founding days, the mission of the law library is to provide free access to legal information to the judiciary, to state and county officials, to members of the State Bar of California, and to all residents of the county. Today, the Law Library’s primary patrons are members of the Sacramento County legal community and county residents representing themselves in legal matters.\n\nAccording to California Statutes, California county law libraries operate independently from the County government where they reside.\n\nThe SCPLL is governed by a seven-member Board of Trustees made up of 5 Superior Court judges, a County Counsel Board of Supervisors delegate, and a local attorney appointed by the County Board of Supervisors. The law library, like other California county law libraries, is funded by a fixed percentage of the local county superior court civil filing fees, though the amount varies by county (dictated by statutes). Thus, County Law libraries are supported by civil litigants, their primary users, and are not funded by state and local taxes.\n\nThe SCPLL is a practice library, focusing on practical materials for attorneys and the public. The law library acquires and maintains major California primary and secondary legal resources, in addition to certain U.S. federal and general legal publications and self-help legal materials written for lay people. The American Association of Law Libraries, County Public Law Library Standards is useful in the selection of resources.\n\nThe Law Library provides an online catalog that includes books, periodicals, audio recordings for attorney MCLE credit, CD-ROMS with forms, websites and has electronic access to thousands of additional titles including law journals, legal treatises, restatements, treaties and much more. Onsite access is free at the law library to a select group of legal databases including: Thomson Reuters Westlaw, Lexis Advance (includes Shepards), HeinOnline, Ebsco’s Legal Information Reference Center (Nolo self-help ebooks), CEB’s OnLAW, and other e-subscriptions.\n\n\nIn 2008 the Sacramento County Superior Court received a grant to help fund a civil self-help center to assist self-represented litigants with general civil matters. The CSHC began as a joint project between the Sacramento Superior Court, the VLSP of Northern California, and the Sacramento County Bar Association. When the Superior Court was faced with budget cuts and space constraints in 2009, the Law Library Director and Board of Trustees agreed to bring the CSHC into the Law Library as both provided assistance to self-represented litigants.\nToday the CSHC is staffed with an attorney and a paralegal. The purpose of the CSHC is to provide general information and basic assistance to individual self-represented litigants with qualifying civil cases. Help is provided either through workshops, quick assistance, referrals, or through a limited number of individual appointments.\n\nIn 2016, the SCPLL joined the Council of California County Law Libraries in a celebration of 125 years providing services to individuals in the state.\n\n\nSacramento County Public Law Library website: https://saclaw.org/<br>\nThe SCPLL online catalog: https://scllhip.saclaw.org/ipac20/ipac.jsp?profile=<br>\nCalifornia’s Ask Now Law Librarian Chat Service: http://www.publiclawlibrary.org/ask-now/<br>\nCalifornia Council of County Law Libraries: http://www.publiclawlibrary.org/\n"}
{"id": "2734500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2734500", "title": "Salutary neglect", "text": "Salutary neglect\n\nSalutary neglect, in American history, is the 17th and 18th century British Crown policy of avoiding strict enforcement of parliamentary laws meant to keep British colonies obedient to England. \nThe term comes from Edmund Burke's \"Speech on Conciliation with America\" given in the House of Commons March 22, 1775.\n\nPrime Minister Robert Walpole stated that \"If no restrictions were placed on the colonies, they would flourish\". This policy, which lasted from about 1607 to 1763, allowed the enforcement of trade relations laws to be lenient. Walpole did not believe in enforcing the Navigation Acts, established under Oliver Cromwell and Charles II and designed to force the colonists to trade only with England, Scotland, and Wales, the constituent countries of the British homeland as well as Ireland, then in personal union with Kingdom of Great Britain, as part of the larger economic strategy of mercantilism. Successive British governments ended this non-enforcement policy through new laws such as the Stamp Act and Sugar Act, causing tensions within the colonies.\n\nSalutary neglect occurred in three time periods. From 1607 to 1696, England had no coherent imperial policy regarding specific overseas possessions and their governance, although mercantile ideas were gaining force and giving general shape to trade policy. From 1696 to 1763, England (and after 1707 the Kingdom of Great Britain) tried to form a coherent policy through the Navigation Acts but did not enforce it. Lastly, from 1763 to 1775 Britain began to try to enforce stricter rules and more direct management, driven in part by the outcome of the Seven Years' War in which Britain had gained large swathes of new territory in North America at the Treaty of Paris. Successive British governments passed a number of acts designed to regulate Britain's American colonies including the Stamp Act and Quebec Act. The Quebec Act was not meant to oppress the colonists but was nevertheless widely viewed as oppressive due to the concurrent passage of the Intolerable Acts.\n\nThe end of salutary neglect was a large contributing factor that led to the American Revolutionary War. Since the imperial authority did not assert the power that it had, the colonists were left to govern themselves. These essentially sovereign colonies soon became accustomed to the idea of self-control. They also realized that they were powerful enough to defeat the British (with help from France), and decided to revolt. The effects of such prolonged isolation eventually resulted in the emergence of a collective identity that considered itself separate from Great Britain.\n\nTo what extent \"salutary neglect\" constituted an actual neglect of colonial affairs, as the name suggests, versus a conscious policy of the British government, is controversial among historians, and also varies with national perspective. While Americans may side with Burke on the \"salutary\" effect of this policy, emphasizing the economic and social development of the colonies, it was from a British imperial perspective a momentous failure, and debate remains as to its true social, economic, and political effects.\n\n"}
{"id": "19668852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19668852", "title": "Shareholders' protection", "text": "Shareholders' protection\n\nShareholders' protection is a contingency process detailing what will happen to a shareholder's shares if the shareholder dies or becomes seriously ill.\n\nIn the interests of financial security, business stability, and continuity – particularly for private limited companies where there may only be a small number of principal shareholders – it is essential to provide a safety net following the loss of a shareholder:\n"}
{"id": "2364729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2364729", "title": "Shortage", "text": "Shortage\n\nIn economics, a shortage or excess demand is a situation in which the demand for a product or service exceeds its supply in a market. It is the opposite of an excess supply (surplus).\n\nIn a perfect market (one that matches a simple microeconomic model), an excess of demand will prompt sellers to increase prices until demand at that price matches the available supply, establishing market equilibrium. In economic terminology, a shortage occurs when for some reason (such as government intervention, or decisions by sellers not to raise prices) the price does not rise to reach equilibrium. In this circumstance, buyers want to purchase more at the market price than the quantity of the good or service that is available, and some non-price mechanism (such as \"first come, first served\" or a lottery) determines which buyers are served. So in a perfect market the only thing that can cause a shortage is price.\n\nIn common use, the term \"shortage\" may refer to a situation where most people are unable to find a desired good at an affordable price, especially where supply problems have increased the price. \"Market clearing\" happens when all buyers and sellers willing to transact at the prevailing price are able to find partners. There are almost always willing buyers at a lower-than-market-clearing price; the narrower technical definition doesn't consider failure to serve this demand as a \"shortage\", even if it would be described that way in a social or political context (which the simple model of supply and demand does not attempt to encompass).\n\nShortages (in the technical sense) may be caused by:\n\nDecisions which result in a below-market-clearing price help some people and hurt others. In this case, shortages may be accepted because they theoretically enable a certain portion of the population to purchase a product that they couldn't afford at the market-clearing price. The cost is to those who are willing to pay for a product and either can't, or experience greater difficulty in doing so.\n\nIn the case of government intervention in the market, there is always a trade-off with positive and negative effects. For example, a price ceiling may cause a shortage, but it will also enable a certain percentage of the population to purchase a product that they couldn't afford at market costs. Economic shortages caused by higher transaction costs and opportunity costs (e.g., in the form of lost time) also mean that the distribution process is wasteful. Both of these factors contribute to a decrease in aggregate wealth.\n\nShortages may cause:\n\n\n\nWhether an economic shortage of a certain good or service is beneficial or detrimental to society often depends on one's ethical and political views. For instance, consider the shortage of recreational drugs discussed above, and the controversies around the use of such drugs. Likewise, consider the economic shortage of cars in the Soviet Union during the 1980s: On the one hand, people had to wait in line to buy a new car; on the other hand, cars were more affordable than they would have been at market prices.\n\nGarrett Hardin emphasised that a shortage of supply can just as well be viewed as a \"longage\" of demand. For instance, a shortage of food can just as well be called a longage of people (overpopulation). By looking at it from this view, he felt the problem could be better dealt with.\n\nIn its narrowest definition, a labour shortage is an economic condition in which employers believe there are insufficient qualified candidates (employees) to fill the marketplace demands for employment at a wage that is mostly employer-determined. Such a condition is sometimes referred to by economists as \"an insufficiency in the labour force.\" An ageing population and a contracting workforce and a birth dearth may curb U.S. economic expansion for several decades, for example.\n\nWage levels have been suggested as one way to measure a labour shortage. However, that often does not match people's common perceptions. For example, if wages alone are the best measure of labour shortages, then that would imply that doctors, instead of farm workers, should be imported because doctors are far more expensive than farm workers. However, there are institutionally-imposed limits on the number of doctors that are allowed to be licensed. If foreign migrant workers were not allowed into a nation, farm wages may go up but probably not enough to approach the wages of doctors.\n\nThe Atlantic slave trade (which originated in the early 17th century but ended by the early 19th century) was said to have originated from perceived shortages of agricultural labour in the Americas (particularly in the Southern United States). It was thought that bringing African labor was the only means of malaria resistance available at the time. Ironically, malaria seems to itself have been introduced to the \"New World\" via the slave trade.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6886136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6886136", "title": "Soviet occupation of Bessarabia and Northern Bukovina", "text": "Soviet occupation of Bessarabia and Northern Bukovina\n\nThe Soviet occupation of Bessarabia and Northern Bukovina was the military occupation, by the Soviet Red Army, during June 28 – July 4, 1940, of the Romanian regions of Northern Bukovina and Hertza, and of Bessarabia, a region under Romanian administration since Russian Civil War times. These regions, with a total area of and a population of 3,776,309 inhabitants, were subsequently incorporated into the USSR.\n\nThe Soviet Union had planned to accomplish the annexation with a full-scale invasion, but the Romanian government, responding to a Soviet ultimatum delivered on June 26, agreed to withdraw from the territories in order to avoid a military conflict. Germany, which had acknowledged the Soviet interest in Bessarabia in a secret protocol to the 1939 Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact, had been made aware prior to the planned ultimatum on June 24, but had not informed the Romanian authorities, nor were they willing to provide support. The Fall of France, a guarantor of Romania's borders, on 22 June, is considered an important factor in the Soviet decision to issue the ultimatum.\n\nOn August 2, 1940, the Moldavian Soviet Socialist Republic was proclaimed as a constituent republic of the Soviet Union, encompassing most of Bessarabia, as well as a portion of the Moldavian Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic, an autonomous republic of the Ukrainian SSR located on the left bank of the Dniester (now the breakaway Transnistrian state). The Hertza region, and the regions inhabited by Slavic majorities (Northern Bukovina, Northern and Southern Bessarabia) were included in the Ukrainian SSR. A period of political persecution, including executions, deportations to labour camps and arrests, occurred during the Soviet administration.\n\nIn July 1941, Romanian and German troops recaptured Bessarabia during the Axis invasion of the Soviet Union. A military administration was established and the region's Jewish population was either executed on the spot or deported to Transnistria, where further numbers were killed. In August 1944, during the Soviet Jassy–Kishinev Offensive, the Axis war effort on the Eastern Front collapsed. A coup d'état in Romania on 23 August 1944 caused the Romanian army to cease resisting the Soviet advance and join the fight against Germany. Soviet forces advanced from Bessarabia into Romania, capturing much of its standing army as POWs and occupying the country. On September 12, 1944, Romania signed the Moscow Armistice with the Allies. The Armistice, as well as the subsequent peace treaty of 1947, confirmed the Soviet-Romanian border as it was on January 1, 1941.\n\nBessarabia, Northern Bukovina, and Hertza remained part of the Soviet Union until its dissolution in 1991, when they became part of the newly independent states of Moldova and Ukraine. In its declaration of independence of August 27, 1991, the government of Moldova condemned the creation of the Moldavian SSR, declaring that it had no legal basis.\n\nAs a historical region, Bessarabia was the eastern part of the Principality of Moldavia. In 1812, under the terms of the Treaty of Bucharest, the region was ceded by the Ottoman Empire (to which Moldavia was a vassal state) to the Russian Empire.\n\nThe Bessarabian question was both political and national in nature. According to the 1897 census, Bessarabia, at the time a guberniya of the Russian Empire, had a population that was 47.6% Moldovans, 19.6% Ukrainians, 8% Russians, 11.8% Jews, 5.3% Bulgarians, 3.1% Germans, and 2.9% Gagauz. These figures showed a strong decrease in the proportion of Moldovans/Romanians in comparison to the census of 1817, conducted shortly after the Russian Empire annexed Bessarabia in 1812. According to the data of this census, Moldovans/Romanians represented 86% of the population. The decrease seen in the census of 1897 was due to the Russian policy of settling of other nationalities and Russification in the territory of Bessarabia.\n\nDuring the 1917 Russian Revolution, a National Council was formed in Bessarabia to manage the province. The council, known locally as Sfatul Țării, initiated several national and social reforms, and on December 2/15 1917 declared the Moldavian Democratic Republic an autonomous republic within the Russian Federative Democratic Republic.\n\nThe Rumcherod, a rival council loyal to the Petrograd Soviet, was also formed and by late December had gained control over the capital, Chișinău, and proclaimed itself the sole authority over Bessarabia. With the consent of the Entente, and, according to the Romanian historiography, on the request of \"Sfatul Țării\", Romanian troops entered Bessarabia in early January, and by February had pushed the Soviets over the Dniester. Despite later declarations by the Romanian prime minister that the military occupation was made with the consent of the Bessarabian government, the intervention was met with protest by the locals, notably by Ion Inculeț, president of \"Sfatul Țării\", and Pantelimon Erhan, head of the provisional Moldavian executive. The executive even authorised the badly organised Moldavian militia to resist the Romanian advance, although with little success. In the wake of the intervention, Soviet Russia broke off diplomatic relations with Romania and confiscated the Romanian Treasure, at the time stored in Moscow for safekeeping. To calm the situation, the Entente representatives in Iași issued a guarantee that the presence of the Romanian Army was only a temporary military measure for the stabilisation of the front, without further effects on the political life of the region. In January 1918, Ukraine declared its independence from Russia, leaving Bessarabia physically isolated from the Petrograd government, and leading to the declaration of independence of the Moldavian Republic on January 24/February 5. Some historians consider that the declaration was made under Romanian pressure. Following several Soviet protests, on February 20/March 5, the Romanian prime minister, General Alexandru Averescu, signed a treaty with the Soviet representative in Odessa, Christian Rakovsky, which provided that Romanian troops be evacuated from Bessarabia in the following two months in exchange for the repatriation of Romanian POWs held by the Rumcherod. After the White Army forced the Soviets to withdraw from Odessa, and the German Empire agreed to the Romanian annexation of Bessarabia in a secret agreement (part of the Buftea Peace Treaty) on March 5/18, Romanian diplomacy repudiated the treaty, claiming the Soviets were unable to fulfil their obligations.\n\nOn March 27/April 9, 1918, \"Sfatul Țării\" voted for the Union of Bessarabia with Romania, conditional upon the fulfilment of an agrarian reform. There were 86 votes for union, 3 votes against union, 36 deputies refrained from voting, and 13 deputies were absent from this session. The vote is regarded as controversial by several historians, including Romanian ones such as Cristina Petrescu and Sorin Alexandrescu. According to historian Charles King, with Romanian troops already in Chișinău, Romanian planes circling above the meeting hall, and the Romanian prime minister waiting in the foyer, many minority deputies chose simply not to vote. On April 18 Georgy Chicherin, the Soviet Commissar for Foreign Affairs, sent a note of protest against the incorporation of Bessarabia into Romania.\n\nIn August 1916, the Entente and neutral Romania signed a secret Convention that stipulated Romania would join the war against the Central Powers in exchange for several territories of Austria-Hungary, among them, Bukovina. During the last part of World War I, national movements of the Romanians and the Ukrainians began to emerge in the province; however, the two movements had conflicting aims, each seeking to unite the province with their national state. Thus, on October 25, 1918, a Ukrainian National Committee, gaining the upper hand in Czernowitz, declared Northern Bukovina, populated by a Ukrainian majority, part of the West Ukrainian People's Republic. On October 27, the Romanians followed suit, proclaiming the whole region united with Romania, and calling in Romanian troops. The Romanian intervention quickly established the Romanian Assembly as the dominant force, and on November 28 a Congress of the Romanians, Germans, and Poles voted to unite with Romania. The representatives of the Ukrainian and Jewish populations boycotted the Congress, and the struggle between ethnic factions continued for several months.\n\nDuring the Russian civil war, the Soviet governments of Ukraine and Russia, prompted by the unrest in Bessarabia due to Romanian occupation, issued a joint ultimatum to Romania on May 1, 1919, demanding its withdrawal from Bessarabia, and the next day, Christian Rakovsky, the Chairman of the Ukrainian Soviet government, issued another ultimatum demanding the withdrawal of Romanian troops from Bukovina as well. The Red Army pushed the Romanians over the Dniester, and a Besarabian Soviet Republic was proclaimed. The ultimatum also came in the context of the Hungarian Revolution, with the Soviets hoping to prevent a Romanian intervention in Hungary. A large-scale rebellion in Ukraine prevented further Soviet advances. Soviet Russia would continue its policy of non-recognition of Romanian sovereignty over Bessarabia, which it considered Romanian-occupied territory, until the 1940 events.\n\nDuring the negotiations pre-dating the Treaty of Paris, the United States representative asked for a plebiscite to be held in Bessarabia to decide its future; however, the proposal was rejected by the head of the Romanian delegation, Ion I. C. Brătianu, who claimed such an undertaking would allow the distribution of Bolshevik propaganda in Bessarabia and Romania. A plebiscite was also requested at the Peace Conference by the White Russians, only to be rejected again. The Soviets would continue to press for a plebiscite during the following decade, only to be dismissed every time by the Romanian government.\n\nRomanian sovereignty over Bessarabia was \"de jure\" recognized by the United Kingdom, France, Italy, and Japan in the \"Bessarabian Treaty\" signed on October 28, 1920. Soviet Russia and Ukraine promptly notified Romania that they did not recognize the treaty's validity, and did not consider themselves bound by it. Ultimately, Japan failed to ratify the treaty, and thus it never came into force, leaving Romania without a valid international act to justify its possession of Bessarabia. The United States refused to discuss territorial changes in the former Russian Empire without the participation of a Russian government. Thus, it declined to recognize the incorporation of Bessarabia into Romania, and, unlike its position of recognizing the independence of the Baltic States, it insisted that Bessarabia was a territory under Romanian military occupation, and incorporated the Bessarabian emigration quota into the Russian one in 1923. In 1933, the U.S. government tacitly included the Bessarabian emigration quota into that of Romania, an act considered a \"de facto\" recognition by Romanian diplomacy. However, during World War II, the U.S. argued it had never recognized Bessarabia's union with Romania.\n\nIn 1924, after the failure of the Tatarbunar Uprising, the Soviet government created a Moldavian Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic on the left bank of the Dniester river within the Ukrainian SSR. The Romanian government saw this as a threat and a possible staging ground for a Communist invasion of Romania. Throughout the 1920s, Romania considered itself a pillar in the \"cordon sanitaire\" policy of containment of the Bolshevik threat, and avoided direct relations with the Soviet Union.\n\nOn August 27, 1928, both Romania and the Soviet Union signed and ratified the Kellogg-Briand Pact, renouncing war as an instrument of national policy. Following this, on February 9, 1929, the Soviet Union signed a protocol with its western neighbors, Estonia, Latvia, Poland, and Romania, confirming adherence to the terms of the Pact. In signing the Pact, the contracting parties agreed to condemn war as a recourse to solving conflict, to renounce it as an instrument of policy, and that all conflicts and disputes were to be settled only by peaceful means. At this time, the Soviet ambassador, Maxim Litvinov, made it clear that neither the pact nor the protocol meant renunciation of Soviet rights over the \"territories occupied by Romanians\". On July 3, 1933, amongst others, Romania and the Soviet Union signed the London Convention for the Definition of Aggression, Article II of which defined several forms of aggression: \"There shall be recognized as an aggressor that State which shall be the first to have committed one of the following actions: First—a declaration of war on another State. Second—invasion by armed forces of the territory of another State even without a declaration of war. (...)\" and \"No political, military, economic or other considerations may serve as an excuse or justification for the aggression referred to in Article II.\"\n\nIn January 1932 in Riga, and in September 1932 in Geneva, Soviet-Romanian negotiations were held as a prelude to a non-aggression treaty, and on June 9, 1934, diplomatic relations were established between the two countries. On July 21, 1936, Maxim Litvinov and Nicolae Titulescu, the Soviet and Romanian Ministers of Foreign Affairs, agreed upon a draft of a Mutual Assistance Pact. It was sometimes interpreted as a non-aggression treaty, that would \"de facto\" recognize the existing Soviet-Romanian border. The protocol stipulated that any common Romanian-Soviet action should be pre-approved by France. In negotiating with the Soviets for this agreement, Titulescu was highly criticized by the Romanian far right. The protocol was to be signed in September 1936. However, Titulescu was dismissed in August 1936, leading the Soviet side to declare the previously achieved agreement null and void. Subsequently, no further attempts were made to reach a political rapprochement between Romania and the Soviet Union. Moreover, by 1937, Litvinov and the Soviet press revived the dormant claim over Bessarabia.\n\nOn August 23, 1939, the Soviet Union and Nazi Germany signed the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact, a non-aggression treaty that contained an additional secret protocol with maps, in which a demarcation line through Eastern Europe was drawn, dividing it into the German and Soviet interest zones. Bessarabia was among the regions assigned to the Soviet sphere of interest by the Pact. Article III of its Secret Additional Protocol states:\n\nWith regard to Southeastern Europe attention is called by the Soviet side to its interest in Bessarabia. The German side declares its complete political disinterestedness in these areas.\n\nOn 29 March 1940 Vyacheslav Molotov declared on the VI session of the Supreme Soviet of the USSR: \"We do not have a pact of non-aggression with Romania. This is due to the presence of an unsolved issue, the issue of Bessarabia, the seizure of which the Soviet Union never recognized although it never raised the issue of returning it by military means\". This was seen as a threat to Romania.\n\nAssured by the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact of Soviet non-interference, Germany started World War II one week later by invading Poland from the west on September 1, 1939. The Soviet Union attacked Poland from the east on September 17, and by September 28, Poland had fallen. Romanian Prime Minister Armand Călinescu, a strong supporter of Poland in its conflict with Germany, was assassinated on September 21 by elements of the Romanian far right with Nazi support. Romania remained formally neutral in the conflict, but aided Poland by providing access to Allied military supplies from the Black Sea to the Polish border, and also a route for the Polish government and army to withdraw after the defeat. The Polish government also preferred a formally neutral Romania because that ensured the safety from German bombardments of supplies transported through Romanian territory. (\"See also Romanian Bridgehead.\")\n\nOn June 2, 1940, Germany informed the Romanian government that, in order to receive territorial guarantees, Romania should consider negotiations with the Soviet Union.\n\nFrom June 14–17, 1940, the Soviet Union gave ultimatum notes to, Lithuania, Estonia, and Latvia, and when these ultimata were satisfied, used bases thus gained to occupy these territories.\n\nFrance's surrender on June 22 and the subsequent British retreat from Europe rendered their assurances of assistance to Romania meaningless.\n\nBy directives OV/583 and OV/584 of the Soviet People Commissariat of Defense, military units of the Odessa Military District were ordered into battle-ready state in the spring of 1940. Soviet troops were concentrated along the Romanian border between April 15 and June 10, 1940. In order to coordinate the efforts of the Kiev and Odessa military districts in the preparation of action against Romania, the Soviet Army created the Southern Front under General Georgy Zhukov. This was composed of the 5th, 9th and 12th Armies. The Southern Front had 32 infantry divisions, 2 motorized infantry divisions, 6 cavalry divisions, 11 tank brigades, 3 paratrooper brigades, 30 artillery regiments, and smaller auxiliary units.\n\nOn 25 June, the Soviet Southern Front received a directive which said:\n\n1. The soldiery and the bourgeois-capitalist clique of Romania, preparing provocationary acts against the USSR, concentrated on the borders of the USSR large armed forces, increased the border posts to 100 persons, enlarged the number of commandos sent to guard the border and is with enforced tempo constructing defense facilities on its border and the close rear.<br>2. The commander of the Southern Front set the troops of the Southern district the task to: a) clear of mines, seize and hold bridges over the borderline rivers; b) firmly defend state borders in the front of the 12th army where the troops of the Workers' and Peasants' Red Army are going to act; c) to provide the Workers' and Peasants' Red Army with guides; d) to cleanse the rear of the 12th army from possible pockets of enemy in the near-border belt of Romania.\n\nTwo action plans were devised. The first plan was prepared for the eventuality that Romania would not agree to evacuate Bessarabia and Bukovina. The Soviet 12th Army was to strike southward along the Prut river towards Iaşi, while the Soviet 9th Army was to strike westwards, south of Chişinău towards Huşi. The objective of this plan was to surround the Romanian troops in the Bălţi-Iaşi area. The second plan took into consideration the possibility that Romania would agree to Soviet demands and evacuate its military forces. In such a situation, Soviet troops were given the mission to quickly reach the Prut river and oversee the evacuation of Romanian troops. The first plan was taken as the default course of action. Along the portions of the border where the offensive was planned to take place, the Soviets prepared at least a triple superiority of men and materiel.\n\nOn June 26, 1940, at 22:00, Soviet People's Commissar Vyacheslav Molotov presented an ultimatum note to Gheorghe Davidescu, Romanian plenipotentiary minister to Moscow, in which the Soviet Union demanded the evacuation of the Romanian military and civil administration from Bessarabia and the northern part of Bukovina. The Soviets stressed their sense of urgency: \"Now that the military weakness of the USSR is a thing of past, and the international situation that was created requires the rapid solution of the items inherited from the past, in order to fix the basis of a solid peace between countries (...)\". The German Minister of Foreign Affairs, Joachim von Ribbentrop, was informed by the Soviets of their intentions to send an ultimatum to Romania regarding Bessarabia and Bukovina on June 24, 1940. In the ensuing diplomatic coordination, Ribbentrop mainly expressed concern for the fate of the ethnic Germans in these two provinces, claiming the number of Germans in Bessarabia to be 100,000, and affirmed that Soviet demands regarding Bukovina were new . He also pointed out that Germany had strong economic interests in the rest of the Romanian territory.\n\nThe text of the ultimatum note sent to Romania on June 26, 1940, incorrectly stated that Bessarabia was populated mainly by Ukrainians: \"[...] centuries-old union of Bessarabia, populated mainly by Ukrainians, with the Ukrainian Soviet Republic\". The Soviet government demanded the northern part of Bukovina as a \"minor reparation for the enormous loss inflicted on the Soviet Union and Bessarabia's population by 22 years of Romanian reign over Bessarabia\", and because its \"[...] fate is linked mainly with the Soviet Ukraine by the community of its historical fate, and by the community of language and ethnic composition\". Northern Bukovina had some historical connections with Galicia, annexed by the Soviet Union in 1939 as part of its invasion of Poland, in the sense that both had previously been part of Austria-Hungary from the second part of the 18th century until 1918. Northern Bukovina was inhabited by a compact Ukrainian population that outnumbered Romanians, while Bessarabia was regarded as having a Romanian majority, even though the larger part of the population adopted a \"Moldavian\" identity.\n\nSince the morning of June 27, there was a mobilization of Romanian troops.\nIn the early hours of June 27, Carol II had a meeting with his prime minister, Gheorghe Tătărescu, and minister for external affairs, Ion Gigurtu, after which he summoned the ambassadors of Italy and Germany. The King communicated his wish to stand against the Soviet Union and asked that their countries influence Hungary and Bulgaria in the hope of not declaring war against Romania in order to reclaim Transylvania and Dobrudja. Stating that it would be \"in the name of peace\" to accede to Soviet demands, the ambassadors urged the King to stand down.\n\nOn June 27, Molotov declared that in case the Romanian side rejected Soviet demands, the Soviet troops were going to cross the border.\n\nOn the same day, the Romanian government replied, suggesting it would agree to \"immediate negotiations on a wide range of questions\". On June 27, a second Soviet ultimatum note put forward a specific time frame, requesting the evacuation of the Romanian government from Bessarabia and northern Bukovina within four days.\n\nOn the morning of June 28, 1940, following advice by both Germany and Italy, the Romanian government, led by Gheorghe Tătărescu, under the semi-authoritarian rule of King Carol II, agreed to submit to the Soviet demands. Without explanation, the Soviet forces also occupied the Hertza Region, part of the Romanian Old Kingdom, which was neither in Bessarabia, nor Bukovina.\n\nThe decision to accept the Soviet ultimatum and to commence a \"withdrawal\" (avoiding the usage of the word \"to cede\") from Bessarabia and northern Bukovina was deliberated upon by the Romanian Crown Council during the night of June 27–28, 1940. The second (decisive) vote outcome, according to the journal of King Carol II, was:\n\nDuring the same night, Carol II also convinced Alexandru Vaida-Voevod to be sworn in as minister. Vaida, along with all of the above, signed the final Crown Council recommendation, in which Carol II ordered the Army to stand down.\n\nOn June 28, at 9:00, communique no. 25 of the General Staff of the Romanian Army officially announced the contents of the ultimatum to the population, its acceptance by the Romanian government, and the intent to evacuate the army and administration to the Prut River. By 14:00, three key cities—Chişinău, Cernăuți and Cetatea Albă—had to be turned over to the Soviets. The military installations and casemates, built during a 20-year period for the event of a Soviet attack, were relinquished without a fight, the Romanian Army being placed by its command under strict orders not to respond to provocation.\n\nA part of the population left the regions along with the Romanian administration and over 70,000 request for repatriation to Romania were recorded afterwards. According to the April 1941 Romanian census, the total number of refugees from the evacuated territories amounted to 68,953. On the other hand, by early August 1940 between 112,000 and 149,974 people left the other territories of Romania for the Soviet-ruled Bessarabia. This figure comprised mostly natives of the region, but also included Jews who wanted to escape the officially endorsed Anti-semitism in Romania.\n\nAs Romania agreed to satisfy Soviet territorial demands, the second plan was immediately put into action, with the Red Army immediately moving into Bessarabia and north Bukovina on the morning of June 28. By June 30, the Red Army reached the border along the Prut river. On July 3, the border was closed completely from the Soviet side.\n\nOne month after the military occupation, on August 2, 1940, the Moldavian Soviet Socialist Republic was established on the main part of the annexed territory, while smaller portions were given to the Ukrainian SSR. Six Bessarabian counties, and small portions of the other three counties, along with parts of the Moldavian ASSR (formerly part of Ukrainian SSR), which was disbanded on that occasion, formed the Moldavian SSR, which became one of 15 union republics of the USSR. The Soviet governmental commission headed by Nikita Khrushchev, the then Communist Party chief of the Ukrainian SSR, allotted Northern Bukovina, Hertsa region, and larger parts of Hotin, Ismail, and Cetatea Albă counties to the Ukrainian SSR.\n\nDuring 1940–1941, political persecution of certain categories of locals took the form of arrests, executions, and deportations to the eastern parts of the Soviet Union. According to Alexandru Usatiuc-Bulgăr, 32,433 people received a politically motivated sentence, of which 8,360 were sentenced to death, or died during interrogations.\n\nSerious incidents occurred in Northern Bukovina, where attempts by the locals to force the border towards Romania resulted in the Soviet border guards opening fire against unarmed civilians. In one case, at Fântâna Albă, this resulted in a massacre. Incidents also took place on the Romania side of the border: at least 300 civilians waiting to leave for Soviet-controlled Bessarabia were shot by the Romanian army in the Galați railway station on June 30, 1940.\n\nThe installation of the Soviet administration was also accompanied by major changes in the economic domain, as medium and large commercial and industrial enterprises were nationalised. The Soviet government also instituted a land reform, redistributing 229,752 hectares to 184,715 poor peasant households, and limiting estate size to 20 hectares in the south, and 10 hectares elsewhere. A collectivisation drive was also started in 1941, however, due to the lack of agricultural machinery, the progress was extremely slow, just 3.7% of the peasant households being included in kolkhozes and sovkhozes by midyear. In order to bolster the government's image, a large part of the 1941 budget was directed towards social and cultural needs, with 20% allocated to health services, and 24% to education and literacy campaigns. While the theological institute in Chişinău was closed, six new higher education institutions were created, including a conservatory and a polytechnic. Furthermore, the salaries of industrial workers and administrative personnel were increased two to three times compared to pre-Soviet levels.\n\nOf all regional allies, with which Romania had treaties with military clauses, only Turkey replied that it would live up to its treaty obligations by providing support in case of Soviet military aggression.\n\nAccording to \"Time\" from Monday, July 1, 1940,\n\nThe territorial concessions of 1940 produced deep sorrow and resentment among Romanians, and hastened the decline in popularity of the regime led by King Carol II of Romania. Three days after the annexation, Romania renounced the 1939 Anglo-French guarantee. A new government of Ion Gigurtu was sworn in on July, 5th, 1940, which withdrew the country from the League of Nations (July 11, 1940), and announced the desire to join the Axis camp (July 13, 1940). A series of measures taken by Romanian Prime Minister Ion Gigurtu, including official persecution of Jews inspired by the German Nuremberg Laws in July and August 1940, failed to sway Germany from awarding Northern Transylvania to Hungary in the Second Vienna Award on August 30, 1940.\n\nThis led to a near uprising in the country. On September 5, King Carol II proposed to General (later Marshal) Ion Antonescu, the chief of the Army, to form a new government. Antonescu's first act was to force the King to abdicate (for the fourth and last time) and flee Romania. An alliance government\nwas formed by Ion Antonescu with remnants of the Iron Guard Legionary Movement (partly destroyed in 1938; \"see The Iron Guard#A bloody struggle for power\"), an anti-Semitic fascist party, and took power on September 6, 1940. Mihai, son of Carol II, succeeded him as King of Romania. The country was declared a National Legionary State. Between October 1940 and June 1941, around 550,000 German troops entered Romania. In November, Antonescu signed the Tripartite (Axis) Pact, tying Romania militarily to Germany, Italy, and Japan. In January 1941, the Legionary Movement attempted a coup, which failed and placed Antonescu firmly in power with the approval of Hitler. The authoritarian regime of Antonescu (1940–1944) did not restore political parties and elected democracy; it only co-opted several individual civilians in the government.\n\nOverall, the desire to regain the lost territories was the deciding factor leading to the entry of Romania into World War II on the side of the Axis against the Soviet Union.\n\nOn June 22, 1941, Romania participated alongside Hungary, and Italy on the side of the Axis Powers in the German invasion of the Soviet Union, in order to recover Bessarabia and Bukovina. This was accomplished by July 26, 1941.\n\nThe King Michael of Romania, his mother Helen, and Mihai Antonescu joined the opening ceremony of the monumental Liberation Tower in Ghidighici, on November 1, 1942.\n\nOn July 27, 1941, despite disagreement from all political parties, Romania's military dictator Ion Antonescu ordered the Romanian Army to continue the war eastward into proper Soviet territory to fight at Odessa, Crimea, Kharkov, Stalingrad and the Caucasus. Between late 1941 and early 1944, Romania occupied and administered the region between the Dniester and Southern Bug rivers, known as Transnistria, and sent expedition troops to several different areas to support the German advance further into the USSR.\nOn the backdrop of increased anti-Semitism in Romania in the late 1930s, the government of Ion Antonescu officially adopted the myth of Jewish Bolshevism, making Jews responsible for the territorial losses Romania suffered during the summer of 1940. As a results, the government, in agreement with Germany, embarked in a campaign to \"cleanse\" the recaptured territories by massively deporting and/or killing the Jews of Bukovina and Bessarabia who did not flee to the interior of the Soviet Union before Romania regained the territory in July 1941. Only in 1941, between 45,000 and 60,000 Jews were killed in Bessarabia and Bukovina by the Romanian and German armies. Surviving Jews were quickly gathered in temporary ghettos and 154,449 to 170,737 were then deported to Transnistria; only 49,927 of them were still alive on September 16, 1943. Only 19,475 Jews of the regions of Bukovina and of the Dorohoi county survived in these territories in 1941–1944 without being deported, most of them in Cernăuți. Romanian gendarmerie (riot police) units also participated, along German troops and local militias, in the destruction of the Jewish community in Transnistria, by murdering between 115,000 and 180,000 local Jews.(\"See History of the Jews in Moldova#The Holocaust\").\nIn 1941–1944, many young male inhabitants of Bessarabia and northern Bukovina were recruited into the Romanian Army. From February to August 1944, hostilities took place properly in the region, as the Romanians attempted to hold the territory from being overrun by the Soviet Union. In total, during World War II, the Romanian Army has lost 475,070 people on the Eastern Front, of which 245,388 were killed in action, disappeared, or died in hospitals or non-battle circumstances, and 229,682 (according to Soviet archival documents) were taken prisoners of war by the Red Army. Of the latter, 187,367 were counted as Romanian POWs in NKVD camps (on April 22, 1956, 54,612 were counted as died in captivity, and 132,755 as freshly released), 27,800 were counted as Romanians released by the Front-levels of the Soviet Army, while 14,515 as Moldovans released by the Front-levels of the Soviet Army.\n\nDuring the first part of 1944, the Soviet Union gradually took over the territory through the Uman–Botoșani and Jassy-Kishinev offensives. On August 23, 1944, with Soviet troops advancing and the Eastern Front falling within Romania's territory, a coup led by King Michael, with support from opposition politicians and the army, deposed the Antonescu dictatorship, ceased military actions against the Allies, and later put Romania's battered armies on their side. In the days immediately after the coup, as Romania's action was unilateral and no armistice had been agreed with the Allied Powers, the Red Army continued to treat the Romanian troops as enemy combatants, while in the confusion, the Romanian troops were not opposing them. As a consequence, the Soviets took a large number of Romanian troops as prisoners of war with little or no fight. Some of the prisoners were Bessarabian-born. Michael acquiesced to Soviet terms, and Romania was occupied by the Soviet Army.\n\nFrom August 1944 to May 1945, ca. 300,000 people were conscripted into the Soviet Army from Bessarabia and Northern Bukovina, and were sent to fight against Germany in Lithuania, East Prussia, Poland, and Czechoslovakia. Some 100,000 were killed, while some other 100,000 were wounded.\n\nIn 1947, as part of the Paris Peace Treaties, Romania and the Soviet Union signed a border treaty, confirming the border fixed in 1940. Several additional uninhabited islands in the Danube Delta, as well as the Snake Island, not mentioned in the Treaty, were transferred from the Communist Romania to the Soviet Union in 1948.\n\nAt the moment of the Soviet occupation, the regions had a total population of 3,776,309 inhabitants. According to Romanian official statistics, this was distributed among the ethnic groups as follows: Romanians (53.49%), Ukrainians and Ruthenians (15.3%), Russians (10.34%), Jews (7.27%), Bulgarians (4.91%), Germans (3.31%), others (5.12%).\n\nDuring the Soviet takeover in 1940, Bessarabian Germans (82,000) and Bukovinian Germans (40,000–45,000) were repatriated to Germany at the request of Hitler's government. Some of them were forcibly settled by the Nazis in the German-occupied Poland (they preferred proper German regions), and had to move again in 1944–1945. The people affected by the resettlement were not persecuted, but they were given no choice to stay or live, and had to change their entire livelihood within weeks or even days.\n\nUp to 70,000 people fled from Bessarabia and northern Bukovina to the rest of Romania on 28 June 1940 and in the following days, most of them returned afterwards in 1941. However, faced with the advancing Soviet troops in 1944, and fearing political repressions or deportations, several hundred thousand people moved westward to the remaining territory of Romania.\n\nDeportations of locals on grounds of belonging to the intelligentsia or kulak classes, or of having anti-Soviet nationalist ideas occurred almost daily throughout 1940-41 and 1944–1950, and with less frequency in 1950–1956. These deportations touched all local ethnic groups: Romanians, Ukrainians, Russians, Jews, Bulgarians, Gagauz. Significant deportations happened on three separate occasions: according to Alexandru Usatiuc-Bulgăr, 29,839 people were deported to Siberia on 13 June 1941. In total, in the first year of Soviet occupation, no fewer than 86,604 people from Bessarabia, Northern Bukovina, and Hertsa Region suffered political repression. This number is close to the one calculated by Russian historians following documents in the Moscow archives, of ca. 90,000 people repressed, arrested or deported in the first year of Soviet occupation. The greater part of this figure (53,356) was represented by forced conscription for labour across the Soviet Union. The classification of such labourers as victims of political repression is however disputed, as the poverty of the locals and the Soviet propaganda are also considered important factors leading to the emigration of the local work force. The arrests continued even after 22 June 1941.\n\nBased on post-war statistics, historian Igor Cașu has shown that Moldovans/Romanians comprised roughly 50 percent of the deportees, with the rest being Jews, Russians, Ukrainians, Gagauzes, Bulgarians and Roma people. Considering the ethnic make-up of the region, he concludes that pre- and post-war repression was not directed at any specific ethnic or national group, but could be characterised as \"genocide\" or \"crime against humanity\". The 1941 deportation targeted \"anti-Soviet elements\" and comprised former representatives of the Romanian interwar administration (policemen, gendarmes, prison guards, clerks), large land-owners, tradesmen, former officers of the Romanian, Polish and Tsarist armies, and people who had defected the Soviet Union before 1940. Kulaks would only become main targets of repression in the post-war period. Before Soviet archives were made accessible, R. J. Rummel had estimated between 1940 and 1941, 200,000 to 300,000 Romanian Bessarabians were persecuted, conscripted into forced labor camps, or deported with the entire family, of whom 18,000 to 57,000 were supposedly killed.\n\nAfter the installation of the Soviet administration, the religious life in Bessarabia and Northern Bukovina underwent a persecution similar to the one in Russia between the two World Wars. In the first days of occupation, certain population groups welcomed the Soviet power and some of them joined the newly established Soviet \"nomenklatura\", including NKVD, the Soviet political police. The latter has used these locals to find and arrest numerous priests. Other priests were arrested and interrogated by the Soviet NKVD itself, then deported to the interior of the USSR, and killed. Research on this subject is still at an early stage. As of 2007, the Christian Orthodox church has granted the martyrdom to ca. 50 clergymen who died in the first year of Soviet rule (1940–1941).\n\nIn Soviet historiography, the chain of events that led to the creation of the Moldavian SSR was described as a \"liberation of the Moldovan people from a 22-year-old occupation by boyar Romania.\" The Soviet authors went into great length to describe scenes how the liberated Bessarabian people eagerly welcomed Soviet troops ending the \"22 years of yoke under the Romanian capitalists and landowners\", organized demonstrations under red flags and liberated imprisoned communists from the Siguranța torture chambers. During 1940–1989, the Soviet authorities promoted the events of June 28, 1940 as a \"liberation\", and the day itself was a holiday in the Moldavian Soviet Socialist Republic.\n\nHowever, in 2010, the Russian political analyst Leonid Mlechin stated that the term occupation is not adequate, but that \"it is more an annexation of a part of the territory of Romania\".\n\nOn June 26–28, 1991, a unique and widely mediated International Conference \"Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact and its consequences for Bessarabia\" took place in Chișinău, gathering renowned historians such as Nicholas Dima, Kurt Treptow, Dennis Diletant, Michael Mikelson, Stephen Bowers, Lowry Wymann, Michael Bruchis, in addition to Moldovan, Soviet and Romanian historians. An informal \"Declaration of Chișinău\" was adopted, according to which the Pact and its Secret Protocol \"constituted the appogeum of collaboration between the Soviet Union an Nazi Germany, and following these agreements, Bessarabia and Northern Bukovina were occupied by the Soviet Army on June 28, 1940 as a result of ulitmative notes addressed to the Romanian government\". These acts were given the characteristic of a \"pregnant manifestation of imperialist policy of annexion and dictat, a shameless aggression against the sovereignty (...) of neighboring states, members of the League of Nations. The Stalinist aggression constituted a serious breach of the legal norms of behavior of states in international relations, of the obligations assumed under the Briand-Kellog Pact of 1928, and under the London Convention on the Definition of the Agressor of 1933.\" The declaration stated that \"the Pact and the Secret Additional Protocol are legally null \"ab initio\", and their consequences must be eliminated.\" For the latter, it called for \"political solutions that would lead to the elimination of the acts of injustice and abuse committed through the use of force, dictat and annexions, ... [solutions] in full consensus with the principles of the [1975] Final Act of Helsinki, and the [1990] Paris Carta for a new Europe\".\n\nOn June 28, 1991, the US Senate voted a resolution sponsored by Senators Jesse Helms (R-NC) and Larry Pressler (R-SD), members of the US Senate Committee on Foreign Relations, which recommended the US Government to\n\nIn the clauses of this Senate resolution it has been stated among other things that \"(...) The armed forces of the Soviet Union invaded the Kingdom of Romania and occupied Eastern Moldova, Northern Bukovina and Hertsa Region. (...) The annexation was prepared beforehand in a Secret Agreement to a Non-Aggression Treaty signed by the Governments of the Soviet Union and the German Reich on August 23, 1939. (...) Between 1940 and 1953 hundreds of thousand of Romanian from Moldova and Northern Bukovina were deported by the USSR to Central Asia and Siberia (...).\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48890226", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48890226", "title": "Stevia World", "text": "Stevia World\n\nStevia World Agrotech Pvt Ltd is an agrotechnology company specializing in the growing and the processing of Stevia leaves, headquartered in Bangalore, India. The company primarily focuses on growing and processing Stevia at relatively low costs adhering to high environmental standards using 'Good Agricultural Practices'. Stevia World regularly invests in Research & Development and Intellectual property acquisitions, managing their proprietary propagation and plantations while providing services to the farmers for contract based farming.\n\nStevia is a nutrient rich plant. It is a natural herb of the Asteraceae, typically growing along the edges of the rain forest of Paraguay. Locals quote it was initially used by their ancestors more than a millennium ago, both for its intense sweet taste and medicinal qualities. Consisting of more than 100 essential nutrients that have been discovered, the leaves can be 30 times sweeter than normal sugar, depending upon the type, geographic location and period of harvest. The type correlates to the amount and blend of glycosides within each stevia unit.\n\"stevia as substitute to sugar\"january 19,2016\"\n[stevia as substitute to sugar.]\n\n\"Stevia World Featured On Suvarna News\" Published on 1 December 2015\n[Stevia World Featured On Suvarna News.]\n\n\"Stevia World Featured on Kasthuri News\" Published on 7 December 2015\n[Stevia World Featured on Kasthuri News]\n\n\"Stevia World Featured On Mathrubhumi News\" Published on 25 December 2015\"\n[Stevia World Featured On Mathrubhumi News]\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3687249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3687249", "title": "Substantial truth", "text": "Substantial truth\n\nSubstantial truth is a legal doctrine affecting libel and slander laws in common law jurisdictions such as the United States or the United Kingdom.\n\nUnder the United States law, a statement cannot be held to be actionable as slanderous or libelous if the statement is true; the substantial truth doctrine extends this protection by holding that a statement with \"slight inaccuracies of expression\" do not make the alleged libel false.\n\nThis doctrine is applied in matters in which truth is used as an absolute defense to a defamation claim brought against a public figure, but only false statements made with \"actual malice\" are subject to sanctions. A defendant using truth as a defense in a defamation case is not required to justify every word of the alleged defamatory statements. It is sufficient to prove that \"the substance, the gist, the sting, of the matter is true.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "43210537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43210537", "title": "Taxation in Bulgaria", "text": "Taxation in Bulgaria\n\nTaxes in Bulgaria are collected on both state and local levels. The most important taxes are collected on state level, these taxes include an income tax, social security, corporate taxes and value added tax. On local level property taxes as well as various fees are collected. All income earned in Bulgaria is taxed on a flat rate of 10%. Employment income earned in Bulgaria is also subject to various social security insurance contributions. In total the employee pays 12.9% and the employer contributes what corresponds to 17.9%. Corporate income tax is also a flat 10%. Value-Added Tax applies at a flat rate of 20% on virtually all goods and services. A lower rate of 9% applies on only hotel services.\n\nBulgarian state taxes are administered by the National Revenue Agency (NRA). The National Assembly has the power to lay and collect Taxes, Duties, Imposts, and Excises. The municipal council shall determine the rate of local taxes.\n\nTaxation in Bulgaria has shifted depending on which government was in control. During the First Bulgarian Empire taxes were paid in kind while during the Second Bulgarian Empire taxation was monetary. Under the Ottoman control of Bulgaria, Christian citizens were subject to a tax called the dhimmi, levied by the Ottoman authority. During the socialist period of planned economy, taxation was similar to that of the rest of the Soviet, often with a turnover tax and taxes on government run businesses. After the end of the Soviet era, large privatization took place and the turnover tax was replaced with an ordinary Value-Added Tax.\n\nThe tax legislation in Bulgaria includes the principles of establishment and functioning of the tax system.\nThe Bulgarian tax system imposes taxes upon both legal entities and individuals, whereas three main groups of taxes can be discerned: direct taxes (corporate tax, income tax of 10%, indirect taxes (value-added tax) and local taxes and fees (succession tax).\nThe National Revenue Agency is the main governmental body in Bulgaria responsible for tax collection.\nIn Bulgaria, the material tax law is regulated by the laws of the different tax types and the procedural law - by the Tax-Insurance Procedure Code\n(Bulg: Данъчно-осигурителен процесуален кодекс).\n\nVAT taxation under Bulgarian tax law is regulated by Value Added Tax Act (VATA) (Bulg: Закон за данък върху добавената стойност), the Regulation for the Application of VATA (RAVATA) and Directive 2006/112 -COUNCIL DIRECTIVE 2006/112/EC of 28 November 2006 on the common system of value added tax.\nThis type of indirect tax is payable monthly for all supplies of goods or services for any intra-European Union acquisition whose place of performance is within the country, carried out by a registered person, as well as for importation of goods. VAT is a tax levied on newly created value during the implementation process of goods or services. The tax is levied on the consumption thereof and the group of turnover taxes. The VAT model under Bulgarian law follows the common VAT regime within the EU model, where personal expenses are taxable by applying the credit (invoice) method. According to this method, each stage of production of goods or services and the implementation thereof to end users is chargeable with VAT on the entire value of the supply, such that through the mechanism of tax credit the final price of the goods or services includes a single VAT charge in the amount of the respective tax rate.\nA taxable person is any person who independently carries out an economic activity, whatever the purpose and results of that activity, as well as any person who performs accidental onerous intra-European Union supplies of new transport vehicles. „Independent economic activity” are the activities of producers, traders and persons supplying services, including mining and agriculture, as well as the practice of a liberal profession, including as private enforcement agents and notaries.\n\nIn order for a taxable person to be part of the taxation procedure under VATA, the same needs to be registered for VAT purposes. VAT registration and its termination are regulated in Arts. 94 - 111, as well as in Arts. 132-135. This registration forms part of the general tax registration under TIPC. Until registered, a taxable person has no rights and obligations under VATA.\nVAT registration can be compulsory, voluntary and on the initiative of the revenue administration, such that the law outlines several situations where specific registration and deregistration apply. Special cases of compulsory registration are separately provided for.\n\nObjects of VAT taxation: objects of taxation are supplies of goods and services; intra-European Union acquisitions; importation of goods.\n\n1. any onerous taxable supply of goods and services\n2. intra-European Union acquisition: acquiring ownership of goods and the actual receipt of goods which are dispatched or transported to the territory of the country from that of another MS, where the supplier is a taxable person who is registered for VAT purposes in another MS. Cases of non-intra-European Union acquisitions are listed in Art.13 (4).\n3. Imports: introduction of non-European Union goods - import of goods and placing goods in free circulation after outward processing. As import of goods is also considered any other event resulting in a customs duty.\n\nArt. 66 VATA provides for the following tax rates:\nA standard 20% rate, which applicable to taxable supplies, except for those expressly specified as subject to a zero rate; the importation of goods into the territory of the country; the taxable intra-European Union acquisitions.\nThe tax applicable to accommodation provided at hotels and similar establishments, including the provision of vacation accommodation and letting out of places for camping sites or caravan sites, is 9%.\nThe tax amount is determined by multiplying the taxable amount by the rate of tax (Art. 67 VATA).\n\nFor every tax period, the registered person shall submit a VAT return, prepared on the basis of the ledger of purchases and ledger of sales.\nThis requirement does not apply to services performed electronically by persons who are not established within the European Union. A registered person, who has effected intra-European Union supplies, supplies as an intermediary in a triangular operation or supplies of services under Art. 21 (2) with the place of supply within the territory of another Member State for the tax period, must submit a VIES return on the said supplies for the relevant tax period together with the VAT return (Art. 125 (1) and (2) VATA).\nTogether with the VAT return the registered person must submit the ledger of purchases and ledger of sales for the relevant tax period. VAT returns must furthermore be submitted where there is no payable or refundable tax, as well as in the cases where the registered person has not effected or received any supplies or acquisitions or has effected any importation for the said tax period. The returns and the ledgers of accounts must be submitted on or before the 14th day of the month following the tax period to which the said returns and ledgers refer.\n\nThe tax obligations, tentative taxes, tax reliefs and the taxation regime of legal persons and their incomes are regulated by the rules of the Corporate Income Tax Act (Bulg: Закон за корпоративното подоходно облагане). According to Article 1, the profits of all resident and foreign legal entities whose activities’ focus is in Bulgaria are taxable in accordance with the Bulgarian legislation. The different types of taxpayers are enumerated in Article 2 of the Act - this includes all resident and foreign legal persons whose main activity is in Bulgaria or who derive their income from a source in Bulgaria. Furthermore, subject to taxation are the foreign organizationally and financially independent entities which are engaged in an independent business activity or investment control, provided that the owner of the income cannot be determined.\n\nAccording to Article 20 of the Act the rate of the corporate income tax is 10%. It is a flat tax.\n\nThere are different rules governing the taxation of domestic and foreign legal persons. The domestic legal persons are taxable with respect to all gains from domestic and foreign sources, whereas foreign companies - only with respect to their operations in Bulgaria and the resulting gains and incomes from them. The annual taxable income is to be declared up to 31 March of the next year.\nThe corporate tax in Bulgaria is an annual. The law provides for payment of two types of advance contributions: monthly advance contributions and quarterly advance contributions. Exempt from advance contributions are the following classes of taxable persons:\n1. Taxable persons, whose net income of sales for the preceding year does not exceed BGN 300,000;\n2. Newly constituted taxable persons for the year of their constitution, except those newly constituted as a result of a transformation under the Commerce Act (CA) (Bulg: Търговски закон). If the transformation is carried out by changing its legal form, the newly constituted entity under Art. 264 CA is subject to advance contributions under the general order.\nThese persons may nevertheless make quarterly advance contributions, such that in this case they would not owe interest if it appears that, in view of the profits realised, contributions would have had to be larger.\n\nThe corporate tax is declared by 31 March of the subsequent year of its occurrence. The tax return form is to be submitted at the territorial directorate of the National Revenue Agency for registration of taxable person.\nTo encourage the electronic submission of documents, the legislature has provided for a preference. Taxable persons that submit an annual tax statement and annual activity report by 31 March of the subsequent year electronically and pay their corporate tax within the same time limit, enjoy a relief of 1 per cent of the annual corporate tax due, however, this relief may not exceed BGN 1,000 (Art. 92 (5) of CITA).\n\nThe most widespread type of withholding taxes is colloquially referred to as \"dividend tax\". The withholding tax on dividends and liquidation proceeds which were distributed in favor of foreign or national legal persons from a local company are subject to taxation in Bulgaria. Foreign legal entities’ profits originating either from business activity performed through a certain location of business activity inside the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria or from disposal of the property of such a location of business activity are to be considered income from a source within the country - Article 12 of the Law on corporate income taxation. The withholding tax is final. The tax rate on dividends and liquidation proceeds is 5%. If the incomes have been received from other non-commercial revenues, such as rent, author rights, etc., the tax rate is 10%.\n\nThe statement of tax withheld at the source is performed quarterly by the end of the month following the quarter.\nPersons who are obliged to withhold and pay tax at the source under Art. 194 and Art. 195, need to declare the due tax for the quarter through a declaration according to a form. A new addition is that the declaration is submitted for the taxes due and not the withheld and paid taxes at the source. The statement is filed with the territorial directorate of the National Revenue Agency, either by registration of the payer of the income or by the place in which the payer of the income must have registered (where the payer of the income is not subject to registration, the tax return is to be filed with the territorial directorate of the National Revenue Agency - Sofia).\nSubject to statement submission are also the taxes withheld at the source on income from dividends and liquidation shares accruing to the benefit of local legal persons who are not traders.\nIn cases where the payer of the income is a person who is not required to withhold and remit taxes, the tax return is submitted by the income recipient until the end of the month following the quarter.\n\nThe period for payment of the tax is until the end of the month following the quarter in which the tax liability arose (Art. 202 (1) and (2) of CITA).\nThe tax due is paid in the respective territorial directorate of the National Revenue Agency by registration of the payer of the income or by the place in which the payer of the income must have registered. Where the payer of the income is not subject to registration, the tax is paid in the Territorial directorate of the National Revenue Agency - Sofia (Art. 202 (3) and (4) of CITA).\nOverpaid tax is recovered by the territorial directorate of the National Revenue Agency, in which the tax is payable.\nIt should be noted that when the tax is not withheld and paid accordingly, it is due jointly by the taxable persons of such income.\n\nThe tax on expenses is performed in accordance with Art. 217 (1) CITA by the taxpayer with an annual income tax return. The tax on expenses is accrued on the annual basis of taxation and is paid once until 31 March of the following year.\nThe main group of taxable persons are local legal entities and foreign legal entities by place of business within the country. Therein are also included sole proprietors in respect of taxes withheld at source on expenses, as well as in cases where they are subject to an alternative tax.\nFor the purposes of taxation under Bulgarian law the key term is \"local legal entity\". Art. 3 of CITA states that \"local\" are:\n• legal entities established under Bulgarian legislation (for the purposes of tax law, unincorporated associations and insurance funds under CSR are treated as legal entities, as well as NGOs – for profit realized within the country);\n• companies established under Regulation (EC) No. 2157/2001 of the Council, and cooperative societies established under Regulation (EC) No. 1435/2003 of the Council where they have their registered office within the country and are entered in a Bulgarian register\nLocal legal entities are taxed on their profit and income from all sources within Bulgaria and abroad. In terms of realized profits and taxes paid abroad, the provisions apply of the relevant treaties for the avoidance of double taxation (Double Taxation Treaties or DTT) apply or to recognize the right of deduction under CITA.\n\nThe Income Taxes on Natural Persons Act (ITNPA) (Bulg: Закон за данъците върху доходите на физическите лица) in Bulgaria regulates the taxation of income of both local and foreign natural persons, including income originating from their business activity. With regard to the income of sole proprietors in Bulgaria, the ITNPA refers to the taxation regime under the Corporate Income Tax Act. Income received from patent activity is taxed in accordance with the Local Taxes and Fees Act.\nThe ITNPA entered into force on 01.01.2007, and on 01.01.2008 it introduced drastic changes to legislation –progressive tax was replaced by a flat tax system. As a general principle, taxable income is the whole income of the natural person, including that which originates from a source abroad (principle of worldwide income taxation), whereas foreign persons only owe tax on income originating from a source in Bulgaria (territorial principle). Citizenship is not a factor when differentiating between the local and foreign persons. Pursuant to Art. 4, regardless of their citizenship, a local natural person is a person:\n\nObject of taxation is income originating from labour and non-labour relationships of natural persons, income from rent, management of real estate or the transfer of rights. The tax is annual.\n\nThis article examines the main provisions related to the \"flat tax\" in the Republic of Bulgaria.\n\nThe introduction of the flat tax offers the following advantages:\n\nThe Act provides for the following tax reliefs:\n\nLocal taxes are needed by local authorities to provide a more comprehensive and quality services and to align these services with the needs of the local population. The following local taxes are paid into the municipal budget: real estate tax; succession tax; donation tax; property acquisition tax; transport vehicle tax; patent tax; other local taxes stipulated by the law.\n\nThe amount of local taxes is determined by the municipal council in accordance with the Local Taxes and Fees Act (LTFA) (Bulg: Закон за местните данъци и такси) but within fixed limits set by law by the National Assembly. By the end of the preceding year, the municipal council determines by ordinance the exact taxable amounts of the year to follow. Making changes during the year is not permissible.\n\nThe local fees collectable within the territory of the Republic of Bulgaria include:\n\nLocal taxes are paid in cash at the cash desks of the municipal administration, or to the relevant bank account. (Art. 2 LTFA).\nViolation of the LTFA provisions could lead to the imposition of a range of penalties. Failure to submit a statement of acquisition of real estate or declaring incorrect data so as to reduce the tax to a lower rate, is punishable with a fine - from BGN 10 to BGN 400 for natural persons and from BGN 100 to BGN 1,000 for legal entities.\n\nThis tax is levied on legal and natural persons, who own motor vehicles registered for operation on the road network in the Republic of Bulgaria, ships registered in the Bulgarian ports, as well as aircraft recorded in the state register of civil aircraft of the Republic of Bulgaria.\nIf the owners of transport vehicles have no permanent address within the territory of the country, the declarations are to be submitted to the municipality where the transport vehicle is registered.\n\nThe amount of the transport vehicle tax is determined by the municipal council in compliance with the terms, conditions and limits set by the LTFA (according to Art. 1 (2) LTFA). For instance:\n\nThe taxation regime of transport vehicles in Bulgaria is regulated in Art. 52-61 of the Local Taxes and Fees Act (LTFA).\n\nIn Bulgaria the real estate tax, also called \"buildings tax\" is levied on buildings and land located within the territory of the country and within the spatial planning areas of settlements, as well as the lands outside such areas, whose intended use, according to a detailed construction plan, falls within Art. 8, item 1 of the Spatial Planning Act and after change of the purpose of the land where that is required by special legislative statute (Art. 10 Local Taxes and Fees Act, or LTFA).\n\nUnder Art. 11 LTFA, tax is levied on:\n\nNo tax is levied on:\n\nAccording to the Bulgarian legislation regulating local taxes, succession tax is levied on estate succeeded by law or by will within Bulgaria or abroad by Bulgarian citizens as well as on the estate located within Bulgaria succeeded by foreign nationals. The succeeded estate includes the movable and immovable property owned by the decedent and the rights over such property, as well as their other property rights, receivables and liabilities at the time of opening of the succession, unless otherwise provided by legislative statute. The inherited estate is subject to deductions as to the obligations and tax reliefs laid down in Bulgarian law, or in those cases where it is inherited by the state.\n\nArt. 38 lists the types of property that are tax free:\n\nTaxable persons are:\n\nThe heirs may waive the succession through a unilateral act and as a result, they are subject to the succession tax. The waiver needs to be express, written and recorded in a specific book at the District Court. In case there is more than one heir, the tax is due in accordance with their share, and the taxable amount depends on the degree of kinship and the size of the inherited share. The tax is determined and communicated to each co-heir - Art. 106 and Art. 107 TIPC.\n\nPersons that have become heirs by law or will, legatees or their legal representatives are obliged to file a tax return in the municipality within six months, such that the period is calculated differently – starting from the moment of opening of the succession or of learning about the succession. Exempt from this six-month period is inherited property whose existence became known to the heirs or legatees after six months. In this case, the time limit is one month from learning about the succession and on the basis of a submitted declaration. Any declaration submitted in time by one heir benefits the other heirs as well. Failure to submit the declaration results in an administrative liability.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1954975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1954975", "title": "The Oppression Remedy", "text": "The Oppression Remedy\n\nThe Oppression Remedy is a book written by David Morritt, Sonia Bjorkquist, and Allan Coleman on corporate litigation.\n"}
{"id": "1110029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1110029", "title": "Transport Workers Act 1928", "text": "Transport Workers Act 1928\n\nThe Transport Workers Act 1928, more widely known as the Dog Collar Act, was a law passed by the Australian Parliament and assent to on 24 September 1928 ostensibly \"relating to employment in relation to trade and commerce with other countries and among the states\", which mirrors the wording of Section 51(i) of the Constitution of Australia. It was instigated by the Nationalist Government of Stanley Bruce. \n\nThe Act required all waterfront workers to hold federal licences, or \"dog collars\" as they were derisively known, to work. The Act allowed the Commonwealth government, by regulation, to effectively control who worked on the docks and nearly destroyed the Waterside Workers Federation. The government favoured employment of non-union labour and members of the Permanent & Casual Wharf Labourers Union of Australia. \n\nThe Act was amended in 1929 and in 1937.\n\nThe Chifley Labor Government replaced the Act on 22 December 1947 with the \"Stevedoring Industry Act 1947\", which was itself amended in 1948 and replaced with the \"Stevedoring Industry Act 1949\", which was in turn amended in 1954 and replaced by the \"Stevedoring Industry Act 1956\". All Acts in this series were repealed in 1977.\n\n"}
{"id": "54775152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54775152", "title": "Vegetarian and vegan symbolism", "text": "Vegetarian and vegan symbolism\n\nMultiple symbols have been developed to represent vegetarianism and veganism. Several are used on food packaging, including voluntary labels such as the Vegan Society trademark or the European Vegetarian symbol as well as the vegetarian and non-vegetarian marks mandated by the Indian government. Symbols may also be used by members of the vegetarian and vegan communities to represent their identities, and in the course of animal rights activism.\n\nPackaged food products sold in India are required to be labelled with a mandatory mark in order to be distinguished between vegetarian and non-vegetarian. The symbol is in effect following the \"Food Safety and Standards (Packaging and Labelling) Act of 2006\", and received a mandatory status after the framing of the respective regulations (\"Food Safety and Standards (Packaging and Labelling) Regulation\") in 2011. According to the law, vegetarian food should be identified by a green symbol and non-vegetarian food with a brown symbol.\n\nThe V-label, a V with a leaf, originated with the European Vegetarian Union. The V-Label is a standardized European vegetarian label from the EVU with the aim of easy identification of vegetarian products and services.\n\nThe enclosed V (modeled after the enclosed A and the enclosed–E symbols) is a popular vegan symbol, especially on social networks where it is represented by the Ⓥ symbol of the Enclosed Alphanumerics Unicode block. A \"V\" inside a circle is not used to label products as vegan nor should be relied upon to determine if a product is vegan. A Kosher organization (Vaad Hoeir of St. Louis) owns and uses a US trademark (certification mark) consisting of a V inside a circle.\nOn internet forums and social networks, the seedling emoji 🌱 is sometimes used to symbolize veganism or vegan products.\n\nThe Veganarchy symbol, first introduced in print in Brian A. Dominick's \"Animal Liberation and Social Revolution\" pamphlet in 1995, combines the Circle-V with the Circle-A of anarchist symbolism.\n\nThe vegan flag was designed by a network group of graphic designers and activists from several countries. The group was opened by Gad Hakimi, a vegan activist and designer from Israel. intending to be a civil flag to represent veganism. The flag consists of three blue and green triangles forming the letter V, the first letter in the word \"vegan\". \n\nOriginally, some members of the group suggested that animals should be featured on the flag, with red colours featuring prominently to symbolize the blood of slaughtered animals. However, the group eventually chose to make the flag about human–animal equality, not about animals themselves. \nInspired by the LGBT rainbow flag, the flag was created in hopes of uniting animal rights organizations and activists.\nThe colours white, green, and blue were chosen to represent the natural habitats of animals: sky, land, and sea. The letter V stands for Vegan, and is an inverted pyramid intended to symbolize the ability to do the impossible.\n"}
{"id": "27602687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27602687", "title": "Wallpaper tax", "text": "Wallpaper tax\n\nThe wallpaper tax was a property tax introduced in Great Britain in 1712, during the reign of Queen Anne. Patterned, printed, or painted wallpaper was initially taxed at 1d per square yard, rising to 1s (equivalent to £ as of ), by 1809. The tax was bypassed by purchasing untaxed plain paper and having it hand stenciled. The tax was abolished in 1836.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46748034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46748034", "title": "Wildbannforst", "text": "Wildbannforst\n\nA Wildbann (\"wildlife ban\") in the Holy Roman Empire was a specific form of royal hunting privilege. \n\nThe forest referred to in a \"Wildbann\" was called a Wildbannforst (\"wildlife ban forest\") or Bannforst (\"ban forest\"). Originally only the king had the right to hunt in a \"wildbann\". Hunting rights were also delegated to others for a fee. They had to pay the so-called \"wildgeld\" (\"wildlife money\").\n\nBefore the 9th century, royal forests were known as \"forestes\" [singular: \"forestis\"]. A \"forestis\" was a legally recognised region that could be used by the king. This right included the use of forest produce (such as timber), hunting, fishing and clearing. Royal rights over any unoccupied land \"(ius eremi)\" were the legal basis for the establishment of the \"forestes\". From the 8th century the Church and the nobility also established such \"forestes\" or took over former royal \"forestes\".\n\nAs a result of the increasing importance of hunting during the 9th century, the designation of these areas changed from \"forestis\" to \"wildbann\". The \"wildbann\" was a hunting area under the king's ban, which extended over a region that could belong to a number of landowners. In addition to hunting rights, the king also exercised supervision of the forest within his \"wildbann\".\nIn the 15th century the word \"wildbann\" was replaced by the term \"Forst\" (\"forest\"). A \"Forst\" was an area over which \"forest sovereignty\" (\"Forsthoheit\") was exercised.\n\nTo protect such a forest and its wildlife, several so-called \"Wildhuben\" (\"wildlife hides\", probably forester's huts) were established. These were lived in by foresters. \n\nThe management of a \"wildbann\" lay in the hands of a \"vogt\". Together the \"vogts\" and foresters guaranteed oversight of the king's forest.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4397259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4397259", "title": "Working Environment (Air Pollution, Noise and Vibration) Convention, 1977", "text": "Working Environment (Air Pollution, Noise and Vibration) Convention, 1977\n\nWorking Environment (Air Pollution, Noise and Vibration) Convention, 1977 is an International Labour Organization Convention.\n\nIt was established in 1977, with the preamble stating:\nHaving decided upon the adoption of certain proposals with regard to working environment: atmospheric pollution, noise and vibration...\n\nAs of 2013, the convention had been ratified by 45 states.\n\n"}
