{"id": "50655875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50655875", "title": "42nd Street Photo", "text": "42nd Street Photo\n\n42nd Street Photo, founded in 1965 and located at 15 W 36th Street in Manhattan, New York, is a 50 years old and one of the first electronics and camera superstores in New York City.\n\nSolomon Barnathan founded 42nd Street Photo in 1965. Barnathan started his own store called ‘Barnett’s’ on 42nd Street, which focused on electronics and cameras. This later became 42nd Street Photo. Elliot Braha took over management of the store from Barnathan in 1985. In 1986, the store expanded to a new location on 5th Avenue.\n\nThe store targets amateur and professional photographers and videographers with low pricing on photography, video and audio equipment. A large portion of the store’s customers comes from their expanding online presence that ships globally.\n\nThe store is currently owned by Elliot Braha. Braha first started with 42nd Street Photo when it was called Barnett’s, under its previous owner, Solomon Barnathan. Braha moved from being a sales clerk to managing the store in 1985. In June 2015, Braha was interviewed by David Jensen, author of \"The Naked Interview: Hiring Without Regret\", about his hiring process at 42nd Street Photo. Braha stated that he most values personal references and face-to-face interviews when it comes to hiring employees. Braha attributes their sales increases to the store’s dedication to customer service. Their sales increased 40% from 2009 to 2010, and from 2010 to 2014 they increased 100% from approximately $10 MM to $20 MM.\n\n"}
{"id": "28626722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28626722", "title": "601 California Street", "text": "601 California Street\n\n601 California Street is a 22-story, skyscraper in the financial district of San Francisco, California. The distinctly international style tower features eight corner offices per floor, and a terrace around the penthouse office, and received an Honor Award from the American Institute of Architects in 1963.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23928139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23928139", "title": "African Markets Overview", "text": "African Markets Overview\n\nAfrican Markets Overview was a magazine that reported on the monthly performance of stock markets in the greater African region. It discontinued in August 2008.\n"}
{"id": "42409509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42409509", "title": "Alireza Yaghoubi", "text": "Alireza Yaghoubi\n\nAlireza Yaghoubi (born 1990 in Tehran, Iran) is an entrepreneur, engineer, scientist, inventor and designer. He is internationally recognized for designing AirGo, an ergonomic passenger environment which has been described as “the future of airlines seating”. Alireza is a recipient of James Dyson design award. He is also the co-founder and CTO of a Singapore-based startup named AirGo Design. In materials science and physical chemistry, he is known for his contribution to the fields of biomedical implants, plasma-assisted inorganic synthesis and development of nanomaterials for clean energy. In honor of his achievements and despite his young age, he has been appointed to an endowed chair as the high impact research young scientist at University of Malaya from where he has also received a bachelor's degree as the Frederic Barnes Waldron student of mechanical engineering.\n"}
{"id": "233788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233788", "title": "Anna Santisteban", "text": "Anna Santisteban\n\nAnna Santisteban (November 3, 1914 – May 18, 2003) was a Puerto Rican businesswoman and beauty entrepreneur who presided the Miss Puerto Rico beauty pageant. This beauty contest was in charge of selecting the Puerto Rican delegate to compete for the title of Miss Universe, though other of its participants represented the Caribbean island in many other beauty competitions as well.\n\nSantisteban's finishing school and modeling academy, Polianna, quickly became a landmark for all aspiring models in the island during the 1960s. She was famous for referring to her students as \"my girls\", her personal approach to training making her a mother figure for many runway and TV models at that time. \n\nAfter the success of her first beauty enterprise, in 1962 Santisteban received an offer to produce the Miss Puerto Rico competition, a duty she took with serious intention. Her commitment paid off in 1970, when Marisol Malaret, a 20-year-old executive secretary, became the very first Puerto Rican to hold the coveted title of Miss Universe.\n\nMalaret's triumph injected Santisteban with enthusiasm, especially when Idalia (Beba) Franco arrived as third runner-up in the 1971 international competition. One year later, in 1972, Puerto Rico became the first territory to host both the Miss USA and the Miss Universe pageants. These events meant the beginning of a new era for both Santisteban and her second husband, graphic designer Edward (Eddie) Ortiz. They founded and established the Miss Puerto Rico Organization, which produced the annual competition that promptly became one of the most commented television events in the island.\n\nUnder Santisteban's close supervision, many Miss Puerto Rico titleholders became TV personalities, international models and business leaders. Some of her detractors have said that Santisteban was a very strict trainer and a very ambitious woman. She neither confirmed nor denied this fact, always focused on her duties with superb elegance and great passion to win another international crown. Santisteban's eagerness had to wait until 1985, when Deborah Carthy-Deu won the second Miss Universe title for her country. After that second triumph, Puerto Rico scored remarkable positions in both the semifinal and final rounds of this competition.\n\nIn 1993, Dayanara Torres became Santisteban's third and last winner for the Miss Universe Pageant. Two years later, at the age of 81, Santisteban was the oldest national director for the organization but was inexplicably removed from her duties, a bold move that many people interpreted as age-discriminatory.\n\nWith first husband Luis Pedreira, Santisteban had three sons, Walter, Luis and Alberto, the youngest, who died in an accident. When Ortiz, her second husband and business partner, died in 2000, she suffered a fall and was removed from her Art-Deco home in the upmarket San Juan area known as \"Ocean Park\", to a long-term care nursing home named \"Hogar Santa Teresa de Jornet\".\n\nOn May 18, 2003, Santisteban died at the \"Pavía Hospital\" in Santurce, Puerto Rico after battling a long illness.\n"}
{"id": "349459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=349459", "title": "Brazilian Silicon Valley", "text": "Brazilian Silicon Valley\n\nBrazilian Silicon Valley is a term commonly applied to the region of Campinas and in southern region this term is applied for Florianópolis city, Brazil because of its similarity to the 'original' Silicon Valley, located in California in the USA.\n\nCampinas has gained this distinction because it has several comparable features, such as:\n\n\nUntil the 1970s, the Campinas region had few industries and had an economy based on agriculture and in the services and commerce sectors. With the foundation of UNICAMP and the ready availability of high-quality researchers, engineers and students focused on physics, electrical engineering, computer sciences, mathematics, mechanical engineering, etc., a number of high-tech companies started to establish their industrial plants and R&D labs nearby, such as IBM. The municipality of Campinas and those surrounding it began to foster actively the growth of this new area, and the CIATEC I and II (Companhia de Desenvolvimento do Pólo de Alta Tecnologia de Campinas) industrial zones were established around the university campus, in the subdistrict of Barão Geraldo. The Center for Research and Development (CPqD) set up by Telebras, a state holding for the telecommunications industry in Brazil, which had grown enormously under the military regime umbrella, was the second boost to Campinas Silicon Valley. A law was passed by the Federal government, protecting Brazilian-made technology against imports, and this resulted in further growth. Together with UNICAMP researchers a number of pioneering developments occurred in the brand-new areas of lasers, fiber optics, digital telephony, computer technology, software development, and so on. In addition, the Petrobras state-owned oil giant was starting to develop a long range oil exploration program with the aim of making Brazil independent of oil imports, a policy also started by the military for strategic and economic reasons (the oil shock had deeply affected the country), and UNICAMP was one of the leading research universities to participate. In this respect, UNICAMP's open philosophy of collaboration with the private sector (unheard of in Brazil until that time), established by his visionary founder and first rector, Dr. Zeferino Vaz, prepared the way for a unique synergy between industry and university.\n\nOther areas in Brazil are also claiming a similar status to Campinas Silicon Valley, although they are much less organized and with smaller companies. They are:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53360944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53360944", "title": "Business metadata", "text": "Business metadata\n\nBusiness metadata is data that adds business context to other data. It provides information authored by business people and/or used by business people. It is in contrast to technical metadata, which is data used in the storage and structure of the data in a database or system. Technical metadata includes the database table name and column name, data type, indexes referencing the data, ETL jobs involving the data, when the data was last updated, accessed, etc.\n\nAccording to noted author and columnist Lowell Fryman, \"The essence of business metadata is in reducing or eliminating the barriers of communication between human and human, as well as human and computer, so that the data conveyed from reports, information systems, or business intelligence applications can be crystal clear, can facilitate business operations, and can be leveraged for all business decision-making processes.\"\n\nDan Linstedt, creator of the Data Vault methodology, says business metadata \"...provide[s] definition of the functionality, definition of the data, definition of the elements, and definition of how the data is used within business...business metadata includes business requirements, time-lines, business metrics, business process flows, and business terminology.\"\n\nBusiness metadata is important because it can greatly facilitate the usefulness of the data to business people. A simple example of business metadata is a glossary entry. Hover functionality in an application or web form can enable a glossary definition to be shown when cursor is on a field or term.\n\nOther examples of business metadata include annotation ability within applications. For example, a business user may be viewing a business intelligence (BI) report and notice a trend in the data. The user may have background knowledge as to why this trend occurs. Some business intelligence tools enable the user to create an annotation within the report that explains the trend. Such an annotation can enhance other users' understanding of the data. This example is especially powerful because it is created by a business user for the use of other business people.\n\nOther examples of business metadata are:\n"}
{"id": "10813204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10813204", "title": "Cain Hoy Stable", "text": "Cain Hoy Stable\n\nCain Hoy Stable was a Thoroughbred racing stable and horse breeding operation with training facilities in Columbia, South Carolina and Kissimmee, Florida. It was owned by Harry Guggenheim who also raced horses in Europe. A founding member of the New York Racing Association, Guggenheim began racing in 1929 and originally raced as the Falaise Stable, the name of his Long Island, New York estate. In 1943 he renamed it the Cain Hoy Stable for his Cain Hoy Plantation, a timber and cattle plantation near Wando, South Carolina.\n\nThe stable's racing colors were blue and white blocks with white sleeves and cap. In 1959, Cain Hoy Stable led all American owners in earnings.\n\nAmong the jockeys who rode for Cain Hoy Stable were Henry Moreno, Manuel Ycaza and Braulio Baeza. Trainers who worked for the stable included Frank A. Bonsal, Moody Jolley, Loyd Gentry, Jr., Eddie Hayward, William W. Stephens and U.S. Racing Hall of Fame inductees, Angel Penna, Sr. and Woody Stephens.\n\nCain Hoy Stable owned the mare Anchors Aweigh, the dam of Never Bow, Make Sail, Sheet Anchor, as well as the mare Siama who was the Kentucky Broodmare of the Year in 1960 and dam of Bald Eagle, One-Eyed King, and Dead Ahead. Cain Hoy was part of a 1959 breeding syndicate that purchased Belmont Stakes winner, Cavan. The stable won numerous important graded stakes races including the Kentucky Oaks, Alabama Stakes, and Champagne Stakes on three occasions, and the then prestigious Belmont Futurity and Withers Stakes, twice. Cain Hoy had six horses won ran in the Kentucky Derby. They won the 1953 edition with Dark Star, handing the future Hall of Famer Native Dancer the only defeat of his career. Their next best Derby finish came in 1963 when Never Bend finished second.\n\nCain Hoy bred and raced Ack Ack, the 1971 Horse of the Year and a U.S. Racing Hall of Fame inductee. The stable also bred American multiple stakes winner Bold Reason as well as the filly San San who was sold to Countess Margit Batthyany in France and who won the 1972 Prix de l'Arc de Triomphe.\n\nOther successful horses included:\n\nIn failing health, in January 1970 the elderly Harry Guggenheim sold Cain Hoy's bloodstock at a dispersal sale. The records of Cain Hoy Stables are part of the Harry Guggenheim papers at the United States' Library of Congress.\n\n"}
{"id": "9888629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9888629", "title": "Campbell Apartment", "text": "Campbell Apartment\n\nThe Campbell (formerly The Campbell Apartment) is a bar and cocktail lounge in Grand Central Terminal in New York City. The space was once the office of American financier John W. Campbell, a member of the New York Central Railroad's board of directors. Later used for office space, as a studio by CBS Radio and as a jail by Metro-North Railroad, the space was restored to its original opulence following renovations totaling nearly $2 million in 1999 and 2007. Temporarily closed in 2016 after a change in management, the bar was reopened in 2017.\n\nLocated in the southwestern corner of the Grand Central Terminal building — above the corner of 42nd Street and Vanderbilt Avenue — the space is reached by a staircase from the Balcony Level. It was first leased in 1923 by John Campbell from William Kissam Vanderbilt II, whose family built the Terminal. The space was a single room long by wide with a ceiling and an enormous faux fireplace in which Campbell kept a steel safe. At that time, it was the largest ground floor space in Manhattan. Campbell commissioned Augustus N. Allen, an architect known for designing estates on Long Island and town houses in Manhattan, to build an opulent office, transforming the room into a 13th-century Florentine palace with a hand-painted plaster of paris ceiling, leaded windows, and a mahogany balcony with a quatrefoil design. The Persian carpet that took up the entire floor was said to have cost $300,000, or roughly $3.5 million today. Campbell added a piano and pipe organ, and at night turned his office into a reception hall, entertaining 50 or 60 friends who came to hear famous musicians play private recitals. He had a butler named Stackhouse.\n\nAfter Campbell's death in 1957, the rug and other furnishings disappeared from his office and the space eventually became a signalman's office and later a closet at Grand Central, where the transit police stored guns and other equipment. It also became a small jail, in the area of the present-day bar.\n\nAfter falling into disrepair, the space was restored and renovated in 1999. The walls and ceiling were brought back to their former glory and the original steel safe, once hidden behind a wall, now sits in the massive fireplace as a reminder of Campbell's wealth. The new bar is done in the same quatrefoil mahogany style as the balcony. The renovation cost an estimated $1.5 million. A 2006 renovation replaced a largely blue palette with a largely red one, including new carpet, bar stools and chairs. To avoid closing for even one night it took place in less than 12 hours and cost $350,000.\n\nThe Campbell Apartment lost its lease in June 2016 after a protracted battle with its landlord and closed its doors at the end of July 2016.\n\nThe bar reopened in May 2017, renamed The Campbell.\n\n"}
{"id": "39105755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39105755", "title": "Chemonics", "text": "Chemonics\n\nChemonics International is a private international development company that works for bilateral and multilateral donors and the private sector to manage projects in developing countries. The organization bids primarily on contracts from the U.S. Agency for International Development (USAID) and manages projects that cover a variety of technical sectors. These sectors include agriculture and food security, corporate partnerships, democracy and governance, economic growth, education and youth, environment and natural resources, gender equality, social inclusion, health, peace and stability, supply chain solutions, and water. In addition to its headquarters in Washington, D.C., the company also has project offices in different countries, covering Asia, Africa, Eurasia, Europe, Latin America, and the Middle East.\n\nChemonics was founded in 1975 by Thurston F. (Tony) Teele.\n\nChemonics has been subject to criticism from the US Agency for International Development (USAID) Office of Inspector General (OIG) for their work on several multimillion-dollar aid contracts.\n\nIn 2012 Chemonics came under scrutiny by the OIG for their work in Haiti after the 2010 earthquake. Chemonics was the largest single recipient of post-earthquake funds from USAID, receiving over $196 million in contracts many of which were \"no-bid.\"\n\nAudits specifically cited Chemonics lack of a comprehensive monitoring and evaluation plan and that \"some of the performance indicators Chemonics developed were not well-defined.\" Chemonics also spent more than 75 percent of program budgets on material and equipment when an expenditure of only 30 percent was planned.\n\nAn Inspector General's report also found that local communities were not sufficiently involved with Chemonics' work and stated \"Chemonics used contractors from Port-au-Prince to implement a number of activities in Cap-Haitien and Saint-Marc; these contractors brought their own people to do the jobs instead of hiring locals.\" When locals were required by USAID, Chemonics' policies \"limited the transparency of the selection process and increase the risk of corruption or favoritism by granting decision-making authority to a few individuals.\"\n\nIn November 2006, USAID Afghanistan awarded a $62 million contract to Chemonics, with an expected end date of March 2010. A 2008 audit of the contract by OIG found that Chemonics' \"results fell considerably short of intended results\" and \"buildings constructed by Chemonics’ subcontractors were not acceptable because of significant construction defects.\"\n\nIn 2016, A Department of Labor investigation into Chemonics’ hiring practices found that the group discriminated against applicants based on race while trying to fill entry-level positions. According to the Guardian, none of the 124 Black Americans who applied for the jobs in Chemonics International’s regional business units were hired. Chemonics agreed to pay $482,243 to job applicants who were subjected to racial discrimination in the company’s hiring process, the Guardian reported.\n"}
{"id": "12831668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12831668", "title": "Commerce Commission", "text": "Commerce Commission\n\nThe Commerce Commission is a New Zealand government agency charged with enforcing legislation that promotes competition in the country's markets and prohibits misleading and deceptive conduct by traders. It is an independent, quasi-judicial body, established under the Commerce Act 1986. The purpose of the Act is to promote competition in New Zealand's economy. It prohibits conducts that restricts competition (restrictive trade practices) and the purchase of a business's shares or assets if that purchase leads to a substantial lessening of competition in the market.\n\nThe Commission is accountable to the Minister of Commerce and Associate Minister of Commerce for its performance. It is intended to be an independent and impartial promoter and enforcer of the law, with a purpose of achieving the best possible outcomes in competitive and regulated markets for the long-term benefit of New Zealanders.\n\nThe Commission undertakes investigations and where appropriate, takes court action. It considers applications for authorisation in relation to anti-competitive behaviour and mergers.\n\nThe Commission also enforces pieces of legislation specific to the telecommunications, dairy and electricity industries.\n\nThe Commerce Commission has specific roles under various Acts, as follows:\n\nThe Fair Trading Act 1986 was developed with the Commerce Act to encourage competition and to protect consumers from misleading and deceptive conduct and unfair trading practices. The Act applies to all aspects of the promotion and sale of goods and services – from advertising and pricing to sales techniques and finance agreements.\n\nThe Act also applies to pyramid schemes, and provides for consumer information standards covering country of origin (clothing and footwear labelling, fibre content labelling, care labelling and supplier information notices relating to motor vehicles. The Commission also enforces six product safety standards relating to baby walkers, pedal bicycles, flammability of children’s night clothes, cigarette lighters, household cots and toys for children aged up to three years.\n\nThe Commission has both enforcement and adjudication roles under the Dairy Industry Restructuring Act 2001. The Act provides for the Commission to undertake enforcement action and requires the Commission to issue determinations to resolve disputes between Fonterra and other parties.\n\nThe Telecommunications Act 2001 regulates the supply of telecommunications services in New Zealand. It requires the Commission to make determinations in respect of designated access and specified services and to undertake costing and monitoring activities relating to the Telecommunications Service Obligations.\n\nThe Commission assumed responsibility for enforcing the major provisions of the Credit Contracts and Consumer Finance Act 2003 on 1 April 2005. This Act repealed the Credit Contracts Act 1981 and the Hire Purchase Act 1971, placing obligations on creditors with respect to disclosure requirements; calculation of fees, charges and interest; and oppressive conduct. It also enables consumers to seek reasonable changes to credit contracts on the grounds of unforeseen hardship. The part of the Act which relates to oppressive contracts known as buy-back transactions was enacted on 14 October 2003 and was already enforced by the Commission prior to April 2005.\n\nIn 2011, former National Finance director and convicted fraudster Trevor Allan Ludlow was the first person to be indefinitely banned by the Commission from working in the consumer finance industry.\n\nThe Commission has a cartel leniency policy to assist in the investigation of anti-competitive arrangements between competitors that are often secret and difficult to detect. The Commission wishes to encourage those involved in cartel conduct to report the cartel to the Commission. The Commission will grant immunity from Commission-initiated proceedings to the first person involved in a cartel to come forward with information and formally apply for leniency, provided they co-operate fully with the Commission in its investigation and prosecution of the cartel.\n\nThe leniency policy applies to arrangements between competitors which substantially lessen competition. It does not include conduct which amounts to a company taking advantage of a substantial degree of market power.\n\nThe Commerce Commission has a role in the regulation of some markets where there is little or no competition. The markets where the Commission is currently involved include: electricity transmission and distribution, gas transmission and distribution, telecommunications, airports and the dairy industry. The Commerce Act Part 4 contains specific provisions for regulation in these markets with a purpose of promoting outcomes that are consistent with outcomes produced in competitive markets such that suppliers of regulated goods or services:\n\nThe regulatory frameworks are defined using input methodologies that establish the rules, requirements, and processes applying to the regulation, or proposed regulation, of goods or services under Part 4 of the Commerce Act 1986. The input methodologies typically cover the approach used to evaluate or determine cost of capital, valuation of assets, allocation of common costs, pricing methodologies, regulatory processes and rules, and the criteria that the Commerce Commission will use to evaluate any proposal.\n\nCommission members are appointed for their knowledge of, and experience in, areas relevant to the Commission’s interests. The Commission comprises a chair, deputy chair, and up to three members. The Telecommunications Act created the position of Telecommunications Commissioner. Associate members and up to two cease and desist members may also be appointed.\n\nThe current members are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23548902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23548902", "title": "Cor Boonstra", "text": "Cor Boonstra\n\nCor Boonstra (Leeuwarden, 7 January 1938) is mainly known as president of the Board of Directors of Philips (1996–2001).\n\nAt the age of 16, he quit his study at the Hogere burgerschool and started to work for Unilever. In 1974 he started to work for Sara Lee, where he ultimately became the president of the board of directors.\n\nOn 31 December 1993 he withdrew from Sara Lee. In the beginning of 1994 he was asked by former Philips top executive Jan Timmer to participate in the Board of Directors of Philips, to breathe new life to the brand Philips. Boonstra was responsible for the 'Let's make things better'- campaign.\n\nTwo years after his commencement of employment with Philips, Boonstra became the successor of Timmer as the president of the board of directors. He held this leading position until 2001. While Boonstra was in charge, the market-value of Philips increased fivefold mainly by focusing on short-term profits and selling off company units like BSO/Origin (now a part of Atos and record company PolyGram. During his leadership he moved the head office (the top 350 employees) of Philips from Eindhoven to Amsterdam, the capital of the country. Since most of the regular staff remained in Eindhoven, the birthplace of the company, this move was not popular among Philips employees. In 2000 Boonstra was chosen 'top executive of the year'. Boonstra divorced two times, and has two children (Cor Boonstra and Roelof Boonstra) of his first wife.\n\nIn 1998 Boonstra and his first wife barely survived a hijacking. At that time Boonstra already was having an affair with Sylvia Tóth. A few years later, Boonstra was accused of insider trading in which he allegedly earned several hundreds of thousands of euros by trading in Endemol shares (where Sylvia Tóth was a member of the board) just before that company was acquired by the Spanish Telefónica. Boonstra was ultimately acquitted in court as no hard evidence existed that his partner Tóth had shared the information on the impending deal with him. The Dutch press referred to the inside deal as the \"pillow talk deal\".\n\nA few months later Cor Boonstra was again charged for not reporting trading in Ahold shares where he himself was a member of the board. He was found guilty and charged a 135.000 euro fine.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4844867", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4844867", "title": "Custom house", "text": "Custom house\n\nA custom house or customs house was a building housing the offices for the government officials who processed the paperwork associated with importing and exporting goods into and out of a country. Customs officials also collected customs duty on imported goods.\n\nThe custom house was typically located in a seaport or in a city on a major river, with access to the ocean. These cities acted as a port of entry into a country. The government stationed officials at such locations to collect taxes and regulate commerce.\n\nDue to advances in electronic information systems, the increased volume of international trade, and the introduction of air travel, the term \"custom house\" is now often an historical anachronism. There are many examples of buildings around the world that were formerly used as custom houses but have since been converted for other uses, such as museums or civic buildings.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, since 1386, the phrase \"custom house\" has been in use over the term \"customs house\". This was after a \"Custom House\" was erected at Wool Wharf in Tower Ward, to contain just the officials of the Great Custom on Wool and Woolfells. The singular form was used even though in later years the Custom House was the location of other Customs officials as well.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2978014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2978014", "title": "Extended Enterprise Modeling Language", "text": "Extended Enterprise Modeling Language\n\nExtended Enterprise Modeling Language (EEML) in software engineering is a modelling language used for Enterprise modelling across a number of layers.\n\nExtended Enterprise Modeling Language (EEML) is a modelling language which combines structural modelling, business process modelling, goal modelling with goal hierarchies and resource modelling. It was intended to bridge the gap between goal modelling and other modelling approaches. According to Johannesson and Söderström (2008) \"the process logic in EEML is mainly expressed through nested structures of tasks and decision points. The sequencing of tasks is expressed by the flow relation between decision points. Each task has an input port and the output port being decision points for modeling process logic\".\n\nEEML was designed as a simple language, making it easy to update models. In addition to capturing tasks and their interdependencies, models show which roles perform each task, and the tools, services and information they apply.\n\nExtended Enterprise Modeling Language (EEML) is from the late 1990s, developed in the EU project EXTERNAL as extension of the Action Port Model (APM) by S. Carlsen (1998). The EXTERNAL project aimed to \"facilitate inter-organisational cooperation in knowledge intensive industries. The project worked on the hypothesis that interactive process models form a suitable framework for tools and methodologies for dynamically networked organisations. In the project EEML (Extended Enterprise Modelling Language) was first constructed as a common metamodel, designed to enable syntactic and semantic interoperability\".\n\nIt was further developed in the EU projects Unified Enterprise Modelling Language (UEML) from 2002 to 2003 and the ongoing ATHENA project.\n\nThe objectives of the UEML Working group were to \"define, to validate and to disseminate a set of core language constructs to support a Unified Language for Enterprise Modelling, named UEML, to serve as a basis for interoperability within a smart organisation or a network of enterprises\".\n\nThe EEML-language is divided into 4 sub-languages, with well-defined links across these languages:\nProcess modelling in EEML, according to Krogstie (2006) \"supports the modeling of process logic which is mainly expressed through nested structures of tasks and decision points. The sequencing of the tasks is expressed by the flow relation between decision points. Each task has minimum an input port and an output port being decision points for modeling process logic, Resource roles are used to connect resources of various kinds (persons, organisations, information, material objects, software tools and manual tools) to the tasks. In addition, data modeling (using UML class diagrams), goal modeling and competency modeling (skill requirements and skills possessed) can be integrated with the process models\".\n\nEEML has four layers of interest:\n\nThese tasks are tied together through another layer called Manage Task Knowledge which allows to achieve a global interaction through the different layers by performing a real consistency between them. According to EEML 2005 Guide, this Manage Task Knowledge can be defined as the collection of processes necessary for innovation, dissemination, and exploitation of knowledge in a co-operating ensemble where interact knowledge seekers and knowledge sources by the means of a shared knowledge base.\n\nGoal modelling is one of the four EEML modelling domains age. A goal expresses the wanted (or unwanted) state of affairs (either current or future) in a certain context. Example of the goal model is depicted below. It shows goals and relationships between them. It is possible to model advanced goal-relationships in EEML by using goal connectors. A goal connector is used when one need to link several goals.\n\nIn goal modelling to fulfil Goal1, one must achieve to other goals: both Goal2 and Goal3 (goal-connector with “and” as the logical relation going out). If Goal2 and Goal3 are two different ways of achieving Goal1, then it should be “xor” logical relationship. It can be an opposite situation when both Goal2 and Goal3 need to be fulfilled and to achieve them one must fulfil Goal1. In this case Goal2 and Goal3 are linked to goal connector and this goal connector has a link to Goal1 with ”and”-logical relationship.\n\nThe table indicates different types of connecting relationships in EEML goal modelling. Goal model can also be interlinked with a process model.\n\nWe can describe process model as models that comprise a set of activities and an activity can be decomposed into sub-activities. These activities have relationship amongst themselves. A goal describes the expected state of operation in a business enterprise and it can be linked to whole process model or to a process model fragment with each level activity in a process model can be considered as a goal.\n\nGoals are related in a hierarchical format where you find some goals are dependent on other sub goals for them to be complete which means all the sub goals must be achieved for the main goal to be achieved. There is other goals where only one of the goals need to be fulfilled for the main goal to be achieved. In goal modelling, there is use of deontic operator which falls in between the context and achieved state. Goals apply to tasks, milestones, resource roles and resources as well and can be considered as action rule for at task. EEML rules were also possible to although the goal modelling requires much more consultation in finding the connections between rules on the different levels. Goal-oriented analysis focuses on the description and evaluation of alternatives and their relationship to the organisational objectives.\n\nResources have specific roles during the execution of various processes in an organisation. The following icons represent the various resources required in modelling.\n\nThe relations of these resources can be of different types:\n\nFrom a general point of view, EEML can be used like any other modelling languages in numerous cases. However we can highlight the virtual enterprise example, which can be considered as a direct field of application for EEML with regard to Extended Enterprise planning, operation, and management.\n\nEEML can help organisations meet these challenges by modelling all the manufacturing and logistics processes in the extended enterprise. This model allows capturing a rich set of relationships between the organisation, people, processes and resources of the virtual enterprise. It also aims at making people understand, communicate, develop and cultivate solutions to business problems\n\nAccording to J. Krogstie (2008), enterprise models can be created to serve various purposes which include:\n\n\nEEML enables Extended Enterprises to build up their operation based on standard processes through allowing modelling of all actors, processes and tasks in the Extended Enterprise and thereby have clear description of the Extended Enterprise. Finally, models developed will be used to measure and evaluate the Extended Enterprise.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46697203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46697203", "title": "Georg Endress", "text": "Georg Endress\n\nGeorg H. Endress (9 January 1924, in Freiburg im Breisgau, Germany – 14 December 2008, in Arlesheim, Switzerland) was a German-Swiss entrepreneur in the area of measurement and control technology, and founder of the company Endress+Hauser.\n\nGeorg Endress was born the son of a factory director. As a young man he moved to Zagreb with his family, where he went to school. He attended further schools in Basle (Switzerland) where he passed school-leaving exams, and then took an apprenticeship as a mechanic, after which he studied engineering in Zuerich.\n\nHe worked for several Swiss companies, and one English firm, before founding a sales company for level measuring devices in Loerrach in 1953 together with the banker Ludwig Hauser, which later became Endress+Hauser AG. The firm began producing its own instruments in 1956. After achieving success in Europe subsidiaries were opened in the USA and Japan (1970) and China (1980). In 1995 Georg Endress handed over control of the firm to his son Klaus Endress.\n\nGeorg Endress felt a particular responsibility towards the Dreiländereck (“three-country-corner”) where Germany, France and Switzerland meet, where he wanted, as he himself said, to remove psychological national barriers. He initiated Tri-Nation Apprentice and Engineering education opportunities in the upper Rhine area, promoted international courses at the University Loerrach. The tri-nation BioValley-Organisation was formed on his initiative.\n\nIn addition, he was involved in Baden Trade Organisation (WVIB, Wirtschaftsverband industrieller Unternehmen Baden) and the Regional Trade Association Black Forest and Upper Rhine. (Regio-Gesellschaft Schwarzwald-Oberrhein)\n\nHe married Alice Vogt in 1946; of their eight children five were active in Endress+Hauser AG at the end of 2008.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "679919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=679919", "title": "Girdler sulfide process", "text": "Girdler sulfide process\n\nThe Girdler sulfide (GS) process, also known as the GeibSpevack (GS) process, is an industrial production method for filtering out of natural water the heavy water (deuterium oxide = DO) which is used in particle research, in Deuterium NMR spectroscopy, deuterated solvents for proton NMR spectroscopy, in heavy water nuclear reactors (as a coolant and moderator) and in deuterated drugs.\n\nKarl-Hermann Geib and Jerome S. Spevack independently, and in parallel, invented the process in 1943 and its name derives from the Girdler company, which built the first American plant using the process.\n\nThe method is an isotopic exchange process between HS and HO (\"light\" water), that produces heavy water over several steps. It is a highly energy intensive process. Seawater contains 180 parts per million of DO.\n\nUntil its closure in 1997, the Bruce Heavy Water Plant in Ontario (located on the same site as Douglas Point and the Bruce Nuclear Generating Station) was the world's largest heavy water production plant, with a peak capacity of 1600 tonnes per year (800 tonnes per year per full plant, two fully operational plants at its peak). It used the Girdler sulfide process to produce heavy water, and required of feed water to produce of heavy water.\n\nThe first such facility of India's Heavy Water Board to use the Girdler process is at Rawatbhata near Kota, Rajasthan. This was followed by a larger plant at Manuguru, Andhra Pradesh. Other plants exist in the United States and Romania for example.\n\nEach of a number of steps consists of two sieve tray columns. One column is maintained at 30°C and is called the \"cold tower\" and the other at 130°C and is called the \"hot tower\". The enrichment process is based on the difference in separation between 30°C and 130°C.\n\nThe process of interest is the equilibrium reaction,\n\nAt 30°C, the equilibrium constant K = 2.33, while at 130°C, K = 1.82. This difference is exploited for enriching deuterium in heavy water.\n\nHydrogen sulfide gas is circulated in a closed loop between the \"cold tower\" and the \"hot tower\" (although these can be separate towers, they can also be separate sections of one tower, with the cold section at the top). Demineralised and deaerated water is fed to the cold tower where deuterium migration preferentially takes place from the hydrogen sulfide gas to the liquid water. Normal water is fed to the hot tower where deuterium transfer takes place from the liquid water to the hydrogen sulfide gas. An appropriate \"cascade\" setup accomplishes enrichment: \"enriched\" water is fed into the cold tower and is further \"enriched\". \n\nNormally in this process, water is enriched to 1520% DO. Further enrichment to \"reactor-grade\" heavy water (> 99% DO) is done in another process, e.g. distillation.\n"}
{"id": "47308714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47308714", "title": "Gold Coast central business district", "text": "Gold Coast central business district\n\nThe Gold Coast central business district (CBD) is the planned main commercial centre of the Gold Coast, Queensland, Australia. The area encompasses an eastern portion of the Southport suburb. Its north–south axis runs from North Street in the north to Brighton Parade in the south. Its east–west axis runs from Broadwater in the east to the High Street in the west.\n\nArchaeological evidence suggests Indigenous Australians inhabited the area for more than ten thousand years before European settlement. The Indigenous tribe that lived in the area were known as the Kombumerri people and spoke the Yugambeh language. The Kombumerri people named the area Goo-een. In 1869, Richard Gardiner became the first European to settle in the area, which was known as Nerang Creek Heads at the time. Gardiner built a house and wharf on the river end of Queen Street which later led to the Loder family and several others following his lead and building in the area. The settlement was surveyed in 1874 and the area was renamed Southport because it was the southernmost port of the colony of Queensland and took inspiration from the English seaside town. In 1877 German immigrant Johan Meyer acquired James Beattie's land at Narrow Neck and started a private ferry service that transported Southport residents to the beachside area that was named Elston shortly after. Meyer's Ferry operated just south of Queen Street on Meyer's Ferry Road and would take travelers across the Nerang River to Elston's Meyer's Ferry Road. In 1878 Richard Gardner opened the Southport Hotel, the town's first pub.\n\nOn 28 November 1883 the Southport Pier was opened in the sheltered Broadwater. The newly created pier allowed steamboats to unload cargo and passengers. As a result, the coastal area of Southport gained the reputation of being a fashionable seaside resort for Brisbane's wealthy and influential but was only accessible by boat for the most part. In 1885 then Governor of Queensland Anthony Musgrave built a seaside house in Southport, further affirming the town's reputation as a destination for Queensland's wealthy and influential. A railway extension to the Southport township opened in 1889 and numerous hotels were soon established along the coastline. In 1901 the residents of Southport celebrated Federation and had grown to a permanent population of 1230. In 1922 the Queensland State Government purchased a Nerang Street site for £1737 and opened the Gold Coast Hospital shortly after.\n\nOn 28 November 1925, the township of Southport had existed for 50 years. The day was declared a public holiday as the town began jubilee celebrations. The first event of the day saw the Queensland Lieutenant-Governor William Lennon officially open the Jubilee Bridge which extended from Queen Street, Southport to Main Beach Parade, Main Beach. The bridge provided easy access to a beach for Southport residents and the connecting suburb was consequently named Main Beach.\n\nThe Southport Town Hall was constructed in 1935 on the corner of Davenport and Nerang Streets by the Southport Town Council. On 9 December 1948, a major reorganisation of local government in South East Queensland saw the towns of Southport and Coolangatta amalgamate to create the Town of South Coast. Most locals felt the new name did not represent the area well and pushed for a change. The town was nicknamed \"Gold Coast\" in the 1950s and on 23 October 1958 the Town of South Coast officially changed its name to Town of Gold Coast. On 16 May 1959 it became City of Gold Coast.\n\nAlthough the city had experienced several name changes and extending of boundaries by the 1960s, Southport was still considered to be the major hub for businesses on the Gold Coast.\n\nThe CBD area was officially declared a priority development area on 4 October 2013 by the Queensland Minister for Economic Development. Following the announcement, many high rises began springing up inside the CBD boundaries as the revitalisation of the area began to take shape. By mid-2014, Gold Coast Mayor Tom Tate claimed that Southport had always been the traditional central business district of the Gold Coast and believed more than 15% of Gold Coast residents would work inside the CBD boundaries in the near future.\n\nIn July 2015, Gold Coast City Council figures showed $2.5 billion of developments had been submitted towards the revitalisation of the CBD. The recently completed Sundale Tower is the tallest building in the CBD at 55-stories. A 104-storey tower known as Imperial City has been proposed inside the CBD boundaries but is yet to be approved. The tower would be the tallest residential building in the southern hemisphere should it be approved.\n\nIn August 2017, it was revealed Gold Coast Mayor Tom Tate had submitted a proposal to the Queensland Government to allow a tender process to build a casino resort on a seven hectare CBD site on the corners of Queen and Scarborough Streets. In late 2017, City of Gold Coast announced a new CBD Program that aimed to revitalise the area by 2025.\n\nThe Gold Coast CBD is located in an eastern portion of the suburb of Southport. It is bordered by High Street to the west and extends as far north as North Street. To the east it is bordered by the Broadwater and extends as far south as Brighton Parade. Nerang Street is considered to be the Main Street or the primary business street of the CBD.\nAdministratively, the Gold Coast CBD falls under the authority of the local government area of City of Gold Coast. The Mayor of the Gold Coast is based at the Southport Town Hall along Nerang Street inside the CBD boundaries. The Queensland state government also has authority over some aspects of the CBD. Hinze Street is considered the legal district of the CBD as it houses the Southport Courthouse, the Southport Police Station and the Southport Watch House as well as the city's official legal aid office.\n\nIn November 1928 the Parklands along the Southport Broadwater were declared public space. The area featured public baths and a pier at the time but most aspects were eventually removed. The addition of the Southport Pool in the 1960s further drew visitors to the area. The Queensland Government and Gold Coast City Council began consultation for the redevelopment of the parklands in 2005. By late 2007 the final master plan was released and it was revealed that the stage 1 redevelopment would cost $42 million. Construction of stage 1 began in March 2008 and the finished product opened to the public on 23 August 2009. Construction of stage 2 began shortly after the opening of stage 1 and was completed in December 2010 at a cost of $17 million. After a few years break, construction of stage 3 began in January 2015 and will cost $10.5 million. The third stage was opened to the public on 28 February 2016.\n\nGold Coast's Chinatown is located in the CBD, focused on Davenport Street and Young Street, and includes the block boundaries of Nerang, Scarborough and Garden Streets. Gold Coast Chinatown is a unique and modern precinct that provides a place for the Gold Coast to celebrate its diversity through culture, design, people and food. The precinct is continuously evolving with new Asian-inspired businesses, restaurants, cultural embellishments, and offers something different on the first Saturday of every month when its streets come alive with a range of exciting events such as free films, popup bars, multicultural celebrations and the much loved Chinatown Street Markets.\n\nSt Hilda's School is the only non-tertiary educational institution located inside the CBD boundaries. St Hilda's opened in 1912 and is a p-12, independent, all girls school located on High Street. Other schools located just outside the CBD boundaries include The Southport School (TSS), Keebra Park State High School, Southport State School and Southport State High School. St Hilda's and TSS are members of the prestigious Great Public Schools Association and Queensland Girls' Secondary Schools Sports Association with the top Brisbane schools.\n\nTertiary education inside the CBD boundaries is provided by Evocca College, Gold Coast Institute of TAFE and Central Queensland University.\n\nThere are two major religious institutions inside the CBD boundaries and both are a denomination of the Christian faith. The Guardian Angels Catholic Church was established in 1882 along Scarborough Street and is the oldest church in the CBD. Shortly after St. Peter's Anglican Church was built in 1887 on the corner of High Street and Nerang Street.\n\nIn 1882, the Southport School of Arts was erected on the corner of Lawson and Scarborough Streets. The school included for 200 people, a stage, dressing rooms and a library. By the early 1900s, the residents of Southport had established a strong interest in the arts and cinematography. Three theatres were built inside the modern day CBD boundaries and were owned by the Thams Brothers. The Regent Theatre, located on Davenport Street, opened in 1912 and was the Gold Coast's first cinema. Due to demand, the theatre was expanded between 1918-1920 and increased its capacity to 1000 seats. Further demand saw the Pier Theatre open in 1926 which sat over the Broadwater. The Pier Theatre quickly became a very popular venue for pastimes in Southport. A third cinema, Savoy Theatre, was also opened shortly after on the eastern side of Nerang Street.\n\nIn December 1938, President Norman Woodroffe handed over the keys of the Southport School of Arts to the Returned Servicemen's League. In 1950 the Gold Coast Little Theatre was formed and moved into their current Scarborough Street premises in 1964. The Gold Coast Little Theatre is the only remaining theatre in the CBD.\n\nThe Gold Coast City Council developed a Southport CBD Heritage Walk in 2008 and 2009. Information was gathered by a \"Call for Stories\" competition with the community. The CBD loop takes 30 minutes and passes the Town Hall, the Catholic Church and the former railway station among other historical sites.\n\nThe Sundale Shopping Centre, which opened on 26 March 1969, was the first of its kind on the Gold Coast costing a record $7.5M but closed in 1989 after the larger Australia Fair Shopping Centre opened nearby. It was located on of prime real estate facing the Broadwater which was previously the site of the popular Southport Hotel. As well as providing panoramic views of the Nerang River from the upper floor, it was home to Queensland's first Big W department store as well as a cinema, restaurants, 45 speciality stores and a 7,000-vehicle car park. It was proposed as a location for the building of the Gold Coast Convention Centre. Such a development would have rejuvenated the old administrative centre of the Gold Coast. However, it lost its bid to Broadbeach, in part because of a lack of tourist accommodation in Southport. The site hosted weekly markets throughout the 1990s for several years after its closure, until its eventual demolition in 2003, at which time a time capsule was buried where the popular mall once stood. The area is now home to the Meriton Brighton on Broadwater development, a mix of high and low rise buildings together with trendy eateries and some retail outlets. In more recent years another a time capsule was discovered on the Sundale site which was buried when the mall was originally constructed. It was originally meant to be opened in the 2000s and was filled with notes and items which were meant to predict what the 21st century would be like. It is now located in the Gold Coast City Council Local Studies Library. In 1983 Scarborough Fair, now known as Australia Fair, was opened on Scarborough Street.\n\nSports facilities located inside the Gold Coast CBD boundaries include the Gold Coast Aquatic Centre, the Gold Coast Sport Fishing Club, James Overall Park, the Queens Park Tennis Centre, the Southport Bowls Club and the Southport Croquet Club. The Aquatic Centre and Fishing Club are both located inside the Southport Broadwater Parklands precinct overlooking the Broadwater. James Overall Park is located at the southern tip of the CBD boundary along Brighton Parade and houses the Eagles Rugby Union Club. The Tennis Centre and Croquet Club are located at the eastern end of Queen Street and are by far the oldest sports clubs in the CBD. The Queens Park Tennis Centre, established in 1911 as the Logan and Albert Tennis Association and based in Beenleigh, moved to its current headquarters on Queen Street in 1928 and is one of the longest running sporting associations on the Gold Coast. Queens Park hosts the prestigious Rose Bowl Championships each year and held exhibition matches with the Australian Davis Cup team in the late 1950s. Winners of the Rose Bowl include tennis legends such as Rod Laver and Pat Cash. In recent years, the club has produced professional top 10 tennis players such as Samantha Stosur and Bernard Tomic.\nSports facilities located just outside the CBD boundaries include Owen Park, the Southport Surf Life Saving Club and the Southport Yacht Club. Owen Park is located just beyond the western tip of the CBD boundary on Queen Street. In 1883, the Southport Cricket Club, then known as the Wharehouse Cricket Association, was established and set up base at Owen Park. The Southport Harness and Greyhound Racing Club later set up base at Owen Park and shared tenancy with the Cricket Club. In 1962, the Southport Sharks Australian rules football team, then known as the Southport Magpies, established itself and played out of Owen Park during the cricket off season over the winter months. In 1972, Owen Park was extended when the Southport landfill was built on by the Southport Tigers and a rugby league field was added to the park. In March 1982, the Gold Coast Australian Football League pulled off a major coup by arranging a VFL exhibition match between Footscray and Geelong at Owen Park. In 1987, the Sharks and Cricket Club submitted plans to relocate to west Southport and build an oval more suited to their needs. The Gold Coast Parklands racing facilities were built in 1988 and by 1989 Owen Park was left one sports tenant, the Southport Tigers. In 1999, the Gold Coast Sporting Hall of Fame opened at Owen Park.\n\nThe Southport Surf Life Saving Club and Southport Yacht Club are located over the Broadwater in the bordering suburb of Main Beach. Woodroffe Park, located in the centre of the CBD on Lawson Street, offers public basketball courts and grass areas. It is located next to the Southport Community Centre and is often presumed to be one and the same thing. The Southport Sharks, who were once based just outside the CBD boundaries at Owen Park but now reside 3 kilometres west of the Broadwater Parklands northern tip, have a long history of producing AFL players, the most notable being St Kilda legend Nick Riewoldt, the first and only Queenslander to be taken with the number 1 pick in the AFL draft.\n\nSeveral schools inside and just outside the CBD boundaries run very successful sports excellence programs. The Southport School has a long history of producing Australian rugby schoolboy representatives and is a strong competitor in Queensland's premier GPS rugby competition. Keebra Park State High School runs an extremely successful rugby league program and has won several national schoolboy rugby league titles in recent years. Both schools have had many students move into the professional leagues of either respective sport following graduation.\n\nIn 1887, German immigrant Johan Meyer provided a private ferry service, known as Meyer's Ferry, to residents that connected Southport to modern day Main Beach and Surfers Paradise. The South Coast railway line was opened in 1889, which was a 42 km extension of the Beenleigh railway line to the township of Southport. The Southport Railway Station was located on the northern end of the CBD along Scarborough Street. In 1964, the South Coast railway line was closed due to the increasing popularity of the motor car and financial losses. The last existing remnant of the site is an east–west road that was laid next to the station, known as Railway Street.\n\nRail transport returned to the CBD in 2014 when the first stage of the line opened. The line included four stations inside the CBD boundaries.\n\nThree major roads on the Gold Coast lead into the CBD which come from the south-east/north-east, south-central and the west. The Gold Coast Highway enters the CBD from Main Beach in south-east and the Sundale Bridge signifies the southern entrance into the city. The Gold Coast Highway also enters the CBD from Labrador in the north-east and Loders Creek Bridge signifies the northern entrance into the city. Ferry Road enters the CBD from the south-central and officially enters the area as the road intersects with Queen Street. The Smith Street Motorway enters the CBD from the west and officially enters the area as the road intersects High Street and becomes North Street.\n"}
{"id": "39925201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39925201", "title": "Hamburg Aviation", "text": "Hamburg Aviation\n\nHamburg Aviation is the brand name of the \"Luftfahrtcluster Metropolregion Hamburg e.V.\" (Aviation Cluster Hamburg Metropolitan Region), an association of companies, research institutions, educational institutions and the Free and Hanseatic City of Hamburg, with the goal of promoting the aviation industry in the Hamburg Metropolitan Region. With more than 40,000 employees in 2012, this is one of the world's largest sites in the civil aviation industry.\n\nCompanies based in the Hamburg Metropolitan Region include the aircraft manufacturer Airbus and Lufthansa Technik, a market leader in the field of maintenance, repair, and overhaul of civil aircraft. Hamburg Airport, which first opened in 1912, is one of the world’s oldest operational airports to still be based at its original location. Added to this are more than 300 specialist suppliers, including branches of Diehl Aerospace. Many of the numerous small and medium-sized enterprises are represented by the business associations Hanse Aerospace e.V. and HECAS.\nFour of Hamburg’s universities offer a course of study with significant aviation-related components: \nAlso based in Hamburg are the German Aerospace Center’s Institute of Aerospace Medicine and Institute of Air Transportation Systems.\n\nA particular focus for many aviation companies in the Hamburg Metropolitan Region is the interior fittings of aircraft along with the design of aircraft cabins. Airbus develops and builds the cabins for the A380 at Finkenwerder Airport, and Lufthansa Technik AG designs in-flight entertainment systems along with luxury VIP fittings for private aircraft. There are also numerous small and medium-sized enterprises specialised in cabin design, cabin fittings, cabin technology and In-Flight Entertainment and Communications (IFE&C).\nThe aviation region’s focus on this field is clearly seen in the Aircraft Interiors Expo, an annual specialist trade fair held in Hamburg since 2002. Launched in 2007, the Crystal Cabin Award for outstanding product innovations in the field of aircraft interior fittings is presented as part of this trade fair. The prize is funded by the Free and Hanseatic City of Hamburg.\n\nIn the field of economics, an accumulation of companies spread throughout the value creation chain, interwoven with research and training facilities, such as exists in the aviation industry in the Hamburg Metropolitan Region, is termed a Business cluster. A cluster is defined by a triple helix structure: the interplay between commerce, research and education, and the public sector.\nIn 2001, companies, universities and government bodies joined forces to establish the “Hamburg Aviation Initiative” in order to promote the development of the aviation industry cluster in Hamburg. This developed into the “Luftfahrtcluster Metropolregion Hamburg e.V.” association, with 15 founding members, formally established in 2011. Hamburg Aviation is the brand name of this association. Its goal is the joint coordination of initiatives to support the aviation industry in the region. Examples of its work include the initiation of cooperative research projects and the management of EU research projects along with regular industry gatherings such as the Hamburg Aviation Forum and the organisation of events designed to secure the next generation of aviation specialists.\n\nIn 2008, the then Hamburg Aviation Initiative was recognised as a Leading-Edge Cluster in the first Leading-Edge Cluster Competition organised by the German Federal Ministry of Education and Research (BMBF). This resulted in a total of 40 million euros of public funding. This partial funding, combined with the support of companies in the cluster, financed numerous research and development projects. The total investment in research and development as a result of winning the competition was over 80 million euros.\n\nIn 2009, as a network project of the universities, aviation enterprises, industry associations, research institutions and the Free and Hanseatic City of Hamburg, the Center of Applied Aeronautical Research (Zentrum für Angewandte Luftfahrtforschung, or ZAL) was established – an initiative of Hamburg Aviation. The cooperative campus of the Hamburg Centre of Aviation Training (HCAT), is one project focussed on the training of qualified specialist personnel, securing the next generation of aviation specialists.\n\nSecuring the next generation of qualified personnel is a significant focus of the work of Hamburg Aviation. Numerous projects, jointly supported by the industry, the city and the universities, serve this purpose. Examples include the Faszination Technik Klub, organising lectures and events related to aviation for children and teenagers, and the DLR School Lab at the Hamburg University of Technology, where school pupils can carry out technical and scientific experiments.\n\nAnother area in which the association is active is the promotion of international cooperation between aviation locations. In May 2009, Hamburg Aviation launched the European Aerospace Cluster Partnership (EACP). The aim of the organisation is to facilitate the exchange of knowledge and to initiate cooperative projects across national boundaries. One such project is CARE: Clean Aerospace Regions, funded by the European Commission. The project provides a framework for 10 partners, 8 of them EACP members, to collaborate in promoting research into ecologically efficient technologies and processes for the air transportation system.\n\nThe original founding members of what is today Hamburg Aviation are:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19049041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19049041", "title": "Health marketing", "text": "Health marketing\n\nHealth marketing is a new, customer-centered, approach to public health promotion that applies traditional marketing principles and theories alongside science-based strategies to protect and promote the health of diverse populations.It involves creating, communicating, and delivering messages for the public on prevention, health promotion and health protection. Health marketing is one of the ways advancements in medicine and in health-protecting services, such as insurance, are made widely known.\nA good example is the current drive in Kenya to promote circumcision among communities that do not customarily circumcise. Medical researchers have recently documented that circumcision is 65% effective in preventing HIV infection among men.\n\nThe marketing strategy would follow the traditional 4 \"P's\" of marketing namely:\n\n\n\"Health marketing\" is a term rarely used in public health and related disciplines. \"Social marketing\" or \"integrated marketing communication\" are more commonly used in public health and other disciplines to refer to marketing-based planning frameworks for public health communication.\n\nHealth marketing or Medical Marketing is a specialized branch of marketing. Medical marketing was born from the necessity for private health professionals to attract new patients, the characteristics of the health market makes it a unique kind of marketing. Medical marketing is usually a business to consumer (B2C) service. Doctors using this type of marketing usually offer beauty related services, such as aesthetic medicine, plastic surgery, dental surgery or dermatology. \n\nIn many countries it is forbidden to pay for advertising of medical procedures, specially in aesthetics and plastic surgery. Showing “before and after” pictures or making references to someone’s body type can be seen as harmful for society.\n\nThe solution for a health care professional or a medical marketing agency is Instagram marketing since nowadays it remains unregulated, being the fastest growing social media in the planet gives doctors an opportunity to acquire new patients through Instagram Marketing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39180390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39180390", "title": "Hermann Bahlsen", "text": "Hermann Bahlsen\n\nHermann Bahlsen (born 14 November 1859 in Hannover; died 6 November 1919 in Hannover) was a German entrepreneur.\n\nIn 1889, Bahlsen founded Hannoversche Keksfabrik H. Bahlsen in Hannover (now Bahlsen GmbH & Co. KG ). He sold Leibniz-cookies (Leibniz-Keks).\n"}
{"id": "13137831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13137831", "title": "Hispanic Enterprise Magazine", "text": "Hispanic Enterprise Magazine\n\nHispanic Enterprise Magazine, formerly Hispanic Trends Magazine, was a joint project of Editorial Televisa and the United States Hispanic Chamber of Commerce. Its headquarters was in Miami, Florida. The publication is a source of news, features and information for every Hispanic entrepreneur and anyone affiliated with the Hispanic marketplace. In 2006, \"Hispanic Enterprise\" successfully launched its digital version.\n\nPublished in English, \"Hispanic Enterprise\" aimed at the business community of Hispanic entrepreneurs. It was primarily distributed to members of the United States Hispanic Chamber of Commerce, which at last count in 2005, numbered approximately 2 million in the United States, generating almost $300 billion in annual gross receipt.\n\nIn July 2008, the magazine was combined with \"PODER Magazine\" and started circulating under the name \"PODER Enterprise\".\n"}
{"id": "400777", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=400777", "title": "Hot money", "text": "Hot money\n\nIn economics, hot money is the flow of funds (or capital) from one country to another in order to earn a short-term profit on interest rate differences and/or anticipated exchange rate shifts. These speculative capital flows are called 'hot money' because they can move very quickly in and out of markets, potentially leading to market instability.\n\nThe following simple example illustrates the phenomenon of hot money: In the beginning of 2011, the national average rate of one year certificate of deposit in the United States is 0.95%. In contrast, China's benchmark one year deposit rate is 3%. The Chinese currency (renminbi) is seriously undervalued against the world's major trading currencies and therefore is likely to appreciate against the US dollar in the coming years. Given this situation, if an investor in the US deposits his or her money in a Chinese bank, the investor would get a higher return than that in the situation in which he or she deposits money in a US bank. This makes China a prime target for hot money inflows. This is just an example for illustration. In reality, hot money takes many different forms of investment.\nThe following description may help further illustrate this phenomenon: \"one country or sector in the world economy experiences a financial crisis; capital flows out in a panic; investors seek a more attractive destination for their money. In the next destination, capital inflows create a boom that is accompanied by rising indebtedness, rising asset prices and booming consumption - for a time. But all too often, these capital inflows are followed by another crisis. Some commentators describe these patterns of capital flow as “hot money” that flows from one sector or country to the next and leaves behind a trail of destruction.\"\n\nAs mentioned above, capital in the following form could be considered hot money:\nThe types of capital in the above categories share common characteristics: the investment horizon is short, and they can come in quickly and leave quickly.\n\nThere is no well-defined method for estimating the amount of “hot money” flowing into a country during a period of time, because “hot money” flows quickly and is poorly monitored. In addition, once an estimate is made, the amount of “hot money” may suddenly rise or fall, depending on the economic conditions driving the flow of funds. One common way of approximating the flow of “hot money” is to subtract a nation’s trade surplus (or deficit) and its net flow of foreign direct investment (FDI) from the change in the nation’s foreign reserves.\n\nHot Money (approx) = Change in foreign exchange reserves - Net exports - Net foreign direct investment\n\nHot money is usually originated from the capital rich, developed countries that have lower GDP growth rate and lower interest rates compared to the GDP growth rate and interest rate of emerging market economies such as India, Brazil, China, Turkey, Malaysia etc. Although the specific causes of hot money flow are somewhat different from period to period, generally, the following could be considered as the causes of hot money flow: \n\nAs described above, hot money can be in different forms. Hedge funds, other portfolio investment funds and international borrowing of domestic financial institutions are generally considered as the vehicles of hot money. In the 1997 East Asian Financial Crisis and in the 1998 Russian Financial Crises, the “hot money” chiefly came from banks, not portfolio investors.\n\nCapital flows can increase welfare by enabling households to smooth out their consumption over time and achieve a higher level of consumption. Capital flows can help developed countries achieve a better international diversification of their portfolios.\n\nHowever, large and sudden inflows of capital with a short term investment horizon have negative macroeconomic effects, including rapid monetary expansion, inflationary pressures, real exchange rate appreciation and widening current account deficits. Especially, when capital flows in volume into small and shallow local financial markets, the exchange rate tends to appreciate, asset prices rally and local commodity prices boom. These favorable asset price movements improve national fiscal indicators and encourage domestic credit expansion. These, in turn, exacerbate structural weakness in the domestic bank sector. When global investors' sentiment on emerging markets shift, the flows reverse and asset prices give back their gains, often forcing a painful adjustment on the economy.\n\nThe following are the details of the dangers that hot money presents to the receiving country's economy:\n\n\nFurthermore, hot money could lead to exchange rate appreciation or even cause exchange rate overshooting. And if this exchange rate appreciation persists, it would hurt the competitiveness of the respective country's export sector by making the country's exports more expensive compared to similar foreign goods and services.\n\n\nHowever, some economists and financial experts argue that hot money could also play positive role in countries that have relatively low level of foreign exchange reserves, because the capital inflow may present a useful opportunity for those countries to augment their central banks' reserve holdings.\n\nGenerally speaking, given their relatively high interest rates compared with that of the developed market economies, emerging market economies are the destination of hot money. Although the emerging market countries welcome capital inflows such as foreign direct investment, because of hot money's negative effects on the economy, they are instituting policies to stop \"hot money\" from coming into their country in order to eliminate the negative consequences.\n\nDifferent countries are using different methods to prevent massive influx of hot money. The following are the main methods of dealing with hot money.\n\n"}
{"id": "225179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=225179", "title": "Industrial design right", "text": "Industrial design right\n\nAn industrial design right is an intellectual property right that protects the visual design of objects that are not purely utilitarian. An industrial design consists of the creation of a shape, configuration or composition of pattern or color, or combination of pattern and color in thre-dimensional form containing aesthetic value. An industrial design can be a two- or three-dimensional pattern used to produce a product, industrial commodity or handicraft.\n\nUnder the Hague Agreement Concerning the International Deposit of Industrial Designs, a WIPO-administered treaty, a procedure for an international registration exists. To qualify for registration, the national laws of most member states of WIPO require the design to be novel. An applicant can file for a single international deposit with WIPO or with the national office in a country party to the treaty. The design will then be protected in as many member countries of the treaty as desired. Design rights started in the United Kingdom in 1787 with the Designing and Printing of Linen Act and have expanded from there.\n\nRegistering for an industrial design right is related to granting a patent.\n\nAccording to industrial property Act 2001, an industrial design is defined as \"any composition of lines or colours or any three-dimensional form whether or not associated with lines or colours, provided that such composition or form gives a special appearance to a product of industry or handicraft and can serve as pattern for a product of industry or handicraft\" .\n\nAn industrial design is registrable if it is new. An industrial design is deemed to be new if it has not been disclosed to the public, anywhere in the world, by publication in tangible form or, in Kenya by use or in any other way, prior to the filing date or, where applicable, the priority date of the application for registration. However a disclosure of the industrial design is not taken into consideration if it occurred not earlier than twelve months before the filing date or, where applicable, the priority date of the application and if it was by reason or in consequence of acts committed by the applicant or his predecessor in title; or an evident abuse committed by a third party in relation to the applicant or his predecessor in title.\n\nIndia's Design Act, 2000 was enacted to consolidate and amend the law relating to protection of design and to comply with the articles 25 and 26 of TRIPS agreement. The new act, (earlier Patent and Design Act, 1911 was repealed by this act) now defines \"design\" to mean only the features of shape, configuration, pattern, ornament, or composition of lines or colours applied to any article, whether in two- or three-dimensional, or in both forms, by any industrial process or means, whether manual or mechanical or chemical, separate or combined, which in the finished article appeal to and are judged solely by the eye; but does not include any mode or principle of construction.\n\nIn Indonesia the protection of the Right to Industrial Design shall be granted for 10 (ten) years commencing from the filing date and there is not any renewal or annuity after the given period.\n\n1. The Right to Industrial Design shall be granted for an Industrial Design that is novel/new<br>\n2. An Industrial Design shall be deemed new if on the filing date, such Industrial Design is not the same as any previous disclosure.<br>\n3. The previous disclosure as referred to in point 2 shall be one which before :<br>\na. The filing date or <br>\nb. The Priority Date, if the applicant is filed with priority right.<br>\nc. Has been announced or used in Indonesia or outside Indonesia.<br>\nAn industrial design shall not be deemed to have been announced if within the period of 6 (six) months at the latest before the filing date, such industrial design <br>\na. Has been displayed in a national or international exhibition in Indonesia or overseas that is official or deemed to be official; or,<br>\nb. Has been used in Indonesia by the designer in an experiment for the purposes of education, research or development. <br>\n\nCanadian law affords ten years of protection to industrial designs that are registered; there is no protection for unregistered designs. The \"Industrial Design Act\" defines \"design\" or \"industrial design\" to mean \"features of shape, configuration, pattern or ornament and any combination of those features that, in a finished article, appeal to and are judged solely by the eye.\" The design must also be original: in 2012, the Patent Appeal Board rejected a design for a trash can, and gave guidance as to what the Act requires:\n\nDuring the existence of an exclusive right, no person can \"make, import for the purpose of trade or business, or sell, rent, or offer or expose for sale or rent, any article in respect of which the design is registered.\" The rule also applies to kits and substantial differences are in reference to previously published designs.\n\nRegistering an industrial design in Canada may be appropriate for a variety of articles such as consumer products, vehicles, sports equipment, packaging, etc., having an original aesthetic appearance, and may even be used to protect new technologies such as electronic icons. Industrial designs can also serve to complement other forms of intellectual property rights such as patents and trade-marks.\n\nThe Canadian courts see infrequent litigation concerning industrial designs the first case in almost two decades took place in 2012 between Bodum and Trudeau Corporation concerning visual features of double wall drinking glasses.\n\nIt is possible for a registered design to also receive protection under Canadian copyright or trademark law:\n\nRegistered and unregistered community designs are available which provide a unitary right covering the European Community. Protection for a registered community design is for up to 25 years, subject to the payment of renewal fees every five years. The unregistered community design lasts for three years after a design is made available to the public and infringement only occurs if the protected design has been copied.\n\nLegislation given in Britain during the years 1787 to 1839 protected designs for textiles. The Copyright of Design Act passed in 1842 allowed other material designs, such as those for metal and earthenware objects, to be registered with a diamond mark to indicate the date of registration.\n\nIn addition to the design protection available under community designs, UK law provides its own national registered design right (Registered Designs Act 1949, later amended by Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988) and an unregistered design right. The unregistered right, which exists automatically if the requirements are met, can last for up to 15 years. The registered design right can last up to 25 years subject to the payment of maintenance fees. The topography of semi-conductor circuits are also covered by integrated circuit layout design protection, a form of protection which lasts 10 years.\n\nArticle 1 of the Japanese Design Law states: \"This law was designed to protect and utilize designs and to encourage creation of designs in order to contribute to industrial development\". The protection period in Japan is 20 years from the day of registration.\n\nU.S. design patents last fifteen years from the date of grant if filed on or after May 13, 2015 (fourteen years if filed before May 13, 2015) and cover the ornamental aspects of utilitarian objects. Objects that lack a use beyond that conferred by their appearance or the information they convey, may be covered by copyright—a form of intellectual property of much longer duration that exists as soon as a qualifying work is created. In some circumstances, rights may also be acquired in trade dress, but trade dress protection is akin to trademark rights and requires that the design have source significance or \"secondary meaning.\" It is useful only to prevent source misrepresentations; trade dress protection.\n\nIn Australia, design patent registration lasts for 5 years, with an option to be extended once for an additional 5 years. For the patent to be granted, a formalities exam is needed. If infringement action is to be taken, the design needs to become certified which involves a substantive examination.\n\nDepending on the jurisdiction registered design rights have a duration between 15 to 50 years. Members of the WIPO Hague system have to publish their maximum term of protection for design rights. These terms are presented in the table below. Some of the jurisdiction below are unions or collaborative office for design registration like the African Intellectual Property Organization, the European Union and the Benelux.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40272", "title": "Industrial sociology", "text": "Industrial sociology\n\nIndustrial sociology, until recently a crucial research area within the field of sociology of work, examines\nOne branch of industrial sociology is labour process theory (LPT). In 1974, Harry Braverman wrote \"Labor and Monopoly Capital\", which provided a critical analysis of scientific management. This book analysed capitalist productive relations from a Marxist perspective. Following Marx, Braverman argued that work within capitalist organizations was exploitative and alienating, and therefore workers had to be coerced into servitude. For Braverman the pursuit of capitalist interests over time ultimately leads to deskilling and routinization of the worker. The Taylorist work design is the ultimate embodiment of this tendency.\n\nBraverman demonstrated several mechanisms of control in both the factory blue-collar and clerical white-collar labour force.\nHis key contribution is his \"deskilling\" thesis. Braverman argued that capitalist owners and managers were incessantly driven to deskill the labour force to lower production costs and ensure higher productivity. Deskilled labour is cheap and above all easy to control due to the workers' lack of direct engagement in the production process. In turn work becomes intellectually or emotionally unfulfilling; the lack of capitalist reliance on human skill reduces the need of employers to reward workers in anything but a minimal economic way.\n\nBraverman's contribution to the sociology of work and industry (i.e., industrial sociology) has been important and his theories of the labour process continue to inform teaching and research. Braverman's thesis has, however, been contested, by Andrew Freidman in his work \"Industry and Labour\" (1977). In it, Freidman suggests that whilst the direct control of labour is beneficial for the capitalist under certain circumstances, a degree of \"responsible autonomy\" can be granted to unionized or \"core\" workers, in order to harness their skill under controlled conditions. Also, Richard Edwards showed in 1979 that although hierarchy in organizations has remained constant, additional forms of control (such as technical control via email monitoring, call monitoring; bureaucratic control via procedures for leave, sickness etc.) has been added to gain the interests of the capitalist class versus the workers. Duncan Gallie has shown how important it is to approach the question of skill from a social class perspective. In his study, the majority of non-manual, intermediate and skilled manual workers believed that their work had come to demand a higher level of skill, but the majority of manual worker felt that the responsibility and skill needed in their work had either remained constant or declined. This means that Braverman's claims can't be applied to all social classes.\n\nThe notion the particular type of technology workers were exposed to shapes their experience was most forcefully argued in a classic study by Robert Blauner. He argued that some work is alienating more than other types because of the different technologies workers use. Alienation, to Blauner, has four dimensions: powerlessness, meaninglessness, isolation, and self-estrangement. Individuals are powerless when they can't control their own actions or conditions of work; work is meaningless when it gives employees little or no sense of value, interest or worth; work is isolating when workers cannot identify with their workplace; and work is self-estranging when, at the subjective level, the worker has no sense of involvement in the job.\n\nBlauner's claims however fail to recognize that the same technology can be experienced in a variety of ways. Studies have shown that cultural differences with regard to management–union relations, levels of hierarchical control, and reward and performance appraisal policies mean that the experience of the same kind of work can vary considerably between countries and firms. The individualization of work and the need for workers to have more flexible skills in order to respond to technological changes means that Blauner's characterization of work experience is no longer valid. Additionally, workers today may work in teams to alleviate workers' sense of alienation, since they are involved in the entire process, rather than just a small part of it. In conclusion, automative technologies and computerized work systems have typically enhanced workers' job satisfaction and skill deployment in the better-paid, secure public and private sector jobs. But, in more non-skilled manual work, they have just perpetuated job dissatisfaction, especially for the many women involved in this type of work.\n\n"}
{"id": "7506209", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7506209", "title": "JDC West", "text": "JDC West\n\nJeux du Commerce West, JDC West Business Competition or informally, JDC West is an annual business competition featuring top business schools and students from across Western Canada, as well as the largest undergraduate business competition in Western Canada. The first competition, hosted by UBC, occurred January 20-23, 2006, and attracted over 400 students. JDC West was modeled after and allows the competition to move from host university/city to host university/city each given year. \n\nEach university sends one team of 50+ representative students to participate respectively in one of 10 Academic Competitions, 1 Parliamentary Debate, 1 Athletic Competition or 1 Social Competition. Points are awarded and accumulated towards a team being declared \"School of the Year\".\n\nThere are 10 core Academic Competitions. That being said, an organizing committee may add any number of additional academic cases, providing that the core academic cases (listed below) are included. Each competition has 3 students from each team participate. In each case competition participants have a fixed amount of time to review the facts and prepare before presenting to the industry judges and experts. \n\nCurrent academic events for JDC West are:\n\nEach debate team has 4 students. They have 30 minutes to review the proposal before presenting. As it is in parliamentary style, one team is designated \"Team Government\" and the other \"Team Opposition\".\n\nThe hosting school chooses the sport each year. The teams include both male and female competitors. \n\n\nEach social team has 4 students - two males and two females. The social portion of the JDC West competition is arguably the most arduous on its competitors who are on-call for ten social challenges to be completed in less than 48 hours at any time of day or night. These entertaining challenges are known to include spirit, mental and physical challenges that bring the 4 students together in a way no team sport could. These challenges test students adaptability, enthusiasm and team work to the extreme.\n\nParticipation - Focuses on the spirit of each school during the competition weekend. The team that cheers the hardest, shows up for the most events, and is the life of the party takes the prize.\n\nCharity - Has two awards. One for the number of hours that school commits to their charities of choice and the second for the amount of dollars raised for their charity of choice.\n\nThe following schools are or have been participants in JDC West:\n\nThe original , French for \"Commerce Games\" started as a Business Student Competition in 1989 in Eastern Canada. They were created in 1988 thanks to the initiative of some students of HEC MONTREAL who wanted to strengthen the links between the students of business administration through the province of Quebec. Mister Patrice Bourbonnais was the student heading a team of co-founders, including Patrick Bérard and Benoît Lessard, as well as others students. The School of Hautes Etudes Commerciales (French business school) of Montreal was the first institution host of the Games (Sets) of the Business in January, 1989. grew throughout the years and became one of the largest events hosted by . In 2003, Yannick Denis-Trudel, the president of at the time had a vision to expand \"the games\" to the rest of Canada. In an attempt to unify the country under the banner, he took on the task of inviting a group of delegates from across Canada to visit the games and see what they were all about. Students returned to their schools excited, but lacked a bit of direction in terms of establishing the games in their own regions. The year after, Yannick made another attempt to get the rest of Canada excited about the games and created a competing team called \"Team Rest of Canada\" or \"Team ROC\". The intention was to allow those visiting the games to actively take part in the games, rather than just watch from the sidelines. Student's went back to their respective schools with an excitement to bring to their respective regions. At Roundtable 2005, one bid to host the event in the Western Region by students from the Sauder School of Business at the University of British Columbia, Co-Led by Jeff Potter and Nik Laufer-Edel. Another bid was put forth for the Ontario region by Guelph Humber. The Western bid was approved by the presidents of the western business schools of the Canadian Business School Council and allowed JDC West to take its first steps to be actualized.\n\nIn 2006, over 1,200 business students from 13 Eastern universities in Canada chose to compete. Since its inauguration, the JDC has become a prestigious annual event noted for its academic excellence and superior teamwork development. Like JDC West, JDC consists of Athletic, Social, Debate and community involvement components. \n\nThe JDC legacy expanded to Ontario schools in 2009, in a competition branded as JDC Central.\nFollowing the success of '' a desire was expressed to create similar games in Western Canada, ultimately leading to a Commerce Competition on a national scale. The Western Games were dubbed \"JDC West\". JDC West has exemplified professionalism and excellence, while focusing on the unique challenges facing a Western Canadian business student. The academic structure of the competition is maintained, encouraging students to strive for excellence and professionalism, while continuing the goodwill and good sportsmanship that JDC has been known for.\n\nThe JDC West Business Competition was incorporated as a not-for-profit in 2010 prior to JDC West 2011. In 2011, a volunteer Board of Directors was voted in by the Presidents of the participating business schools' students societies in collaboration with their JDC West Team Captains. This board is composed of active JDC West alumni and the current Organizing Committee's External Co-Chair. The board's main roles are to oversee the long-term strategy, risk mitigation, relationship management and high level financial health of the competition to ensure its long-term sustainability.\n\n"}
{"id": "17410993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17410993", "title": "James Colvin", "text": "James Colvin\n\nJames Colvin (1844 – 29 October 1919) was a New Zealand Member of Parliament for , in the South Island.\n\nColvin was born in 1844 in Donegal, Ireland, where he received his education. He emigrated to Victoria, Australia in 1861 and went gold mining in Creswick and Daylesford. He came to New Zealand in 1862 and joined the Otago Gold Rush in Dunstan and Wakatipu, from where he went to the gold fields in the Wakamarina Valley in Marlborough; he set up a store in the latter place. When he was a young man, Colvin was held up by a member of the Burgess-Sullivan gang (also known as the Maungatapu Murderers) near where George Dobson had been murdered a few days previously. Unknown to his interrogator James Colvin was carrying 2,000 pounds worth of gold on his saddle, and managed to pass unmolested.\n\nHe served on numerous boards and committees: the Buller County Council (1885–89), Westport Harbour Board (Chairman 1890), and was Mayor of Westport between 1898 and 1900.\n\nColvin stood in the electorate in the but was defeated by Patrick O'Regan. He defeated O'Regan in 1899 as a supporter of Richard Seddon, and represented the Buller electorate in the House of Representatives for twenty years until his death in 1919. At the , Colvin stood as an Independent Liberal rather than an official Liberal candidate.\n\nColvin served as the Chairman of Committees from 1910 to 1911. In the house, he had the nickname 'uncle Colvin', given to him by Thomas Wilford in 1899 when they both entered Parliament. He was Minister of Mines in 1912 in the Mackenzie cabinet.\n\nColvin was killed at 10 pm on 29 October 1919 by a tram as he left Parliament House in 1919. Parliament was still sitting, and the news reached the debating chamber within 15 minutes, which resulted in the immediate adjournment of proceedings.\n\n"}
{"id": "8381167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8381167", "title": "John Craven (businessman)", "text": "John Craven (businessman)\n\nSir John Craven (born 23 October 1940) is a director of Reuters and chairman of Deutsche Morgan Grenfell Group plc, and a former director of Deutsche Bank.\n\nCraven was educated at Michaelhouse and read law at Jesus College, Cambridge. He is a member of the Canadian and Ontario Institutes of Chartered Accountants.\n\nIn 1967, Craven joined SG Warburg & Co Ltd, becoming an executive director in 1969. He became Group Chief Executive of White Weld & Co Ltd (subsequently Credit Suisse First Boston) from 1975 to 1978 and a vice chairman of SG Warburg & Co Ltd in 1979. In 1981 he founded Phoenix Securities Ltd which was acquired by Morgan Grenfell Group plc in 1987 when he took on the role of Group Chief Executive of Morgan Grenfell Group plc. He sat on the board of managing directors of Deutsche Bank from 1990 until 1996.\n\nCraven was chairman of Morgan Grenfell Group plc from 1989, a post he retained when the group was renamed as Deutsche Morgan Grenfell Group plc in 1996. He is a non-executive director of Rothmans International plc and a member of the Supervisory Board, Société Générale de Surveillance SA, Geneva. He is also a Trustee of the Cambridge University Foundation.\n\n"}
{"id": "3812326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3812326", "title": "John Seward Johnson I", "text": "John Seward Johnson I\n\nJohn Seward Johnson I (July 14, 1895 – May 23, 1983) was one of the sons of Robert Wood Johnson I (co-founder of Johnson & Johnson). He was also known as J. Seward Johnson Sr. and Seward Johnson. He founded the Harbor Branch Oceanographic Institution (HBOI), and was the grandfather of Jamie Johnson, who directed the documentary \"Born Rich\".\n\nHe was born on July 14, 1895 in New Brunswick, New Jersey, to Robert Wood Johnson I and Evangeline Brewster Armstrong. He had three siblings: Roberta Johnson, Robert Wood Johnson II, and Evangeline Johnson.\n\nJohnson's first marriage was to Ruth Dill, the sister of actress Diana Dill. They had four children: Mary Lea Johnson Richards, Elaine Johnson, John Seward Johnson II, and Diana Melville Johnson Firestone. It was alleged that Johnson would later sexually abuse his eldest daughter from age nine to fifteen.\n\nIn 1939, Johnson married Esther Underwood. They had two children: Jennifer Underwood Johnson and James Loring Johnson.\n\nDuring his thirty-two year marriage, he engaged in extramarital affairs with his chambermaid Barbara Piasecka. In 1971, they married with none of Johnson's children in attendance. Piasecka Johnson \"often physically and emotionally abused her husband\", trial adversaries said. He signed his final will on April 14, 1983, leaving the bulk of his fortune to her. In that year, Johnson died of cancer at the age of 87. In accordance with the terms of the will, she received $402,824,971.59.\n\nThe exclusion of the rest of his family from the will led to at least three highly publicized legal battles: One in which his six children from his first two marriages sued on grounds that he wasn't mentally competent at the time he signed the will. It was settled out of court, and the children were granted about 12% of the fortune. The second legal dispute was regarding the eligibility of Mary Lea Johnson Richards' husband's share of the fortune, which lasted twelve years. The court ruled in favor of her husband. The third battle was regarding the eligibility of John Seward Johnson II's daughter's share of the fortune. The court ruled in favor of his daughter. In addition, Harbor Branch Oceanographic Institution contested the new will, and eventually received $20 million in the settlement.\n\nToday, the Harbor Branch Oceanographic Institution is the Harbor Branch Oceanographic Institute, a research institute within Florida Atlantic University. The governing board of the former Harbor Branch Oceanographic Institution then became the governing board of the Harbor Branch Oceanographic Institute Foundation which retained other parcels of land and an endowment funded by the J. Seward Johnson, Sr. Charitable Trust Endowment Fund and the Seward Johnson Trust Fund for Oceanography. The Harbor Branch Oceanographic Institute Foundation exists today with a mission to support Harbor Branch Oceanographic Institute.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11568048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11568048", "title": "Joos Horsten", "text": "Joos Horsten\n\nJoos Horsten (1942–2008) was a Belgian businessman. He founded \"Xian Janssen Pharmaceutical\", the Sino-Belgian joint venture of Janssen Pharmaceutica, a Flemish pharmaceutical company in Belgium.\n\nFor almost 25 years, he was responsible for chemical manufacturing and international production at Janssen Pharmaceutica, and together with Chinese partners, he established Xian Janssen Pharmaceutical. After the opening of China in 1978, their first factory was set up by Joos Horsten in Hanzhong, after which a second and larger factory followed in Xi'an.\n\nFrom 1992 to 1997, he continued his career at Solvay Pharmaceuticals, a Belgian chemical and pharmaceutical multinational, as Vice-President Technical Affairs, and in 1997 established his own company, as a consultant to Chinese pharmaceutical companies. His contacts led to other companies doing business in China: Xian Thiebaut Pharmaceutical Packaging Co, and Xian Flanders Innovation Services (XFIS).\n\nIn 2002, he became chairman for the soccer club K.V. Turnhout, restoring it to financial stability, renegotiating debts, from the construction of a new sports stadium.\n\nOn 21 June 2008, he died in China of an apparent heart attack. He left a wife and four sons.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36750235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36750235", "title": "Keith Arbuthnott, 17th Viscount of Arbuthnott", "text": "Keith Arbuthnott, 17th Viscount of Arbuthnott\n\nJohn Keith Oxley Arbuthnott, 17th Viscount of Arbuthnott (born 18 July 1950) is a Scottish peer and businessman. \n\nHe was educated at Fettes College and North Scotland College of Agriculture. He lives at the family estate, Arbuthnott House at Laurencekirk, Inverbervie. \n\nArbuthnott married Jill Mary Farquharson in 1974 and they have three children and five grandchildren: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "4526227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4526227", "title": "Kenneth D. Mackenzie", "text": "Kenneth D. Mackenzie\n\nKenneth D. Mackenzie (born 1937) is an American organizational theorist, former Professor at the University of Kansas and management consultant. He is known for his early work on the \"Theory of Group Structures\" and his later work on organizational design\n\nMackenzie received his BA in Mathematics with a minor in Physics in 1960 from the University of California, Berkeley, where in 1964 he also obtained his Ph.D. in Business Administration.\n\nAfter his graduation Mackenzie started his academic career in 1964 at the Carnegie-Mellon University as Assistant Professor of Economics. In 1967 he moved to the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania at the University of Pennsylvania. In 1972 he moved to the University of Kansas, where he was appointed Edmund P. Learned Distinguished Professor from January 1972 to January 2006. He further taught at U.C. Berkeley, University of Waterloo, and KU. In 2000 Mackenzie founded the consultancy firm EMAC Assessments, LLC.\n\nMackenzie has served on numerous editorial boards including \"Management Science,\" \"Organizational studies,\" \"International Journal of Organizational Analysis,\" \"Journal of Management Inquiry,\" Human Systems Management,\" and \"Engineering Management Research.\"\n\nHe has published 19 books and over 100 articles.\n\nMackenzie research interests have been in the fields of organization theories, organization design processual models, organizational leadership, multi-level research and the discoverer of the organizational hologram.\n\nMackenzie’s research is based on his bed rock belief that there are only three fates of any theory: to be (a) ignored, (b) rejected, and (c) revised. Consequently, it is self-evident and unreasonable for him to expect any of his theories to escape these fates. Therefore, he is not interested in \"proving\" or justifying them. He knows that they somehow must be wrong. What he chooses to publish is his current best effort but only after finally failing to find grievous fault. The goal is to improve theories rather than to defend them. The best way to do this is to actively search for and highlight hidden flaws and inconsistencies. Finding these flaws provides vital clues for making improvements in the theory. Fixing them paves the path to improvements.\n\nTo this end, Mackenzie never begins any research project if he already has a clear understanding of how to solve it. What would be the point? In fact he only works on projects for which he does not know the results. This way he is frequently surprised and grateful to witness new wonders. Surprises refocus thinking and provide information about how one of his theories is wrong. Surprise stimulates the necessity for more improvements. The constant goal is seeking disconfirmations. The motto is \"Always Failing Forward!\" Obtaining a confirmation adds no new information, does nothing to improve a theory, and uses up scarce resources. Confirming what is already known is thus viewed as an ineffective strategy for theory improvement. But a disconfirmation is a stimulus, a call to action which impels one to stumble forward in order to seek improvements. One succeeds by failing.\n\nMackenzie is keenly interested in discovering and enhancing explanations of patterned behavior. Thus, he values theory. He is especially interested in the patterns of behavior within groups and organizations.\n\nHis approach to research is both deliberate and naïve. There are steps he follows in performing an empirical or conceptual study. However, he tries to ignore any latent preconceived specific theory or a fixed toolkit of methods. To him the phenomena is paramount and not the literature. He always wants a fresh, independent look at a problem whenever possible. The first step is to \"wallow\" in the phenomena until reaching an intuitive feel for them. (Please note: to wallow in the phenomena is not the same thing as wallowing in the literature about the phenomena). Next is the effort to formulate the research questions, taking care to always to be \"anchored\" in the phenomena. This formulation provides a narrative and means to begin the development of some explanation for the phenomena. Once an explanation is developed, the question becomes: how can this be refuted? The next step is to refute it. This is the easiest step! This basic research process iterates until one runs out of new ideas for refuting the explanation. Stopping to write up results is the next step. These developments are merged into a wider stream of his past research work and where feasible, the relevant literatures. Because of the importance he places on counterexamples, he eschews the use of mathematical statistics in favor of strong inference. His purpose is to use each research adventure to help erect a less ramshackle theoretical edifice for the group and organizational sciences.\n\nHe usually works on many questions simultaneously and moves quickly to reject unpromising avenues of research. He strives to avoid the Type III error of working on the wrong problem. Ideas pop up all over and the trick to give each a chance and then discard the bad ones. In the pungent language of hunters, \"do not feed the dog that won’t hunt.\"\n\nMackenzie sometimes works as a management consultant in order to hear of new problems and thus new questions and to fund his research. However, he never accepts a consulting project if he thinks that he already knows the answer. He does not offer recommendations for organizational changes unless the client agrees he knows enough to run the organization. He is always an advocate for the well-being of the organization itself.\n\nAs a researcher, a teacher, an author, and an editor, he frequently encounters the difficulty of how to represent fundamental concepts such as leadership, structure, and process. In particular, the representations of structure and group and organizational processes are especially interesting and important because they cut across the group and organizational sciences.\n\nIn this regard, he has learned two things worth mentioning produced over a course of many years of research into organizational phenomena: the representation of group and organizational (a) structures and (b) processes. Both concepts are central to discussions of group and organizational processes (GOPs). And neither is represented consistently among scholars and practitioners. The result is confusion and barriers to cumulation. For how can one build on another’s results when the other’s methods and concepts are inconsistent with one’s own?\n\nA structure, S, of a group or organization of n agents, X = (x, x, …, x, …, x) can be represented by this equation:\n\nwhere the matrix R has n rows and n columns and entries r where row i corresponds to the \"sender,\" x , the column j corresponds to the \"receiver,\" x , and the value of an entry r is a measure of an interaction from x to x. The value of r can range from a binary relation such as a boss-subordinate to how many thousands of board feet of douglas fir, 4-side finished, eight foot 2 x 4’s were sold by wholesaler i to retailer j during a specified time period.\n\nThe x ϵ X are engaged Processual Agents such as individuals, groups (e.g. committees, task forces, virtual teams, etc.), and even organizations. The dimension and measures for the entries, r , are chosen for the purposes of an analysis. It is important to realize that in this representation of group and organizational structures, the entries r reflect the actual relationship between its members relevant to the purposes of the study. Please note the asymmetry: r rarely equals r . Also, in some applications, not all of the Processual Agents x ϵ X are, in fact, human.\n\nGiven this representation of group and organizational structures, the following conclusions have strong empirical support:\n\nAny group and organizational process (GOP) can be represented as:\n\nwhere C is a vector of considerations or steps in a GOP, F is a network illustrating the linkages between each of the considerations or steps, and Y is the set of outcomes of the GOP.\n\nIntuitively, a GOP is a time dependent sequence of behaviors governed by a process framework given by equation (2). The GOP representation of equation (2) is derived from these six ontological axioms:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4168495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4168495", "title": "List of Muslims in business", "text": "List of Muslims in business\n\nThis is the list of the successful Muslim businessmen and entrepreneurs.\n\n\n\n\nYussuf Yurary Poulsen\n\nRachid Nekkaz\n\nFouad Makhzoumi\n\nHadi Teherani\n\nAhmed Aboutaleb\n\nArnoud van Doorn\n\nAbdalqadir as-Sufi\n\nMohammed Knut Bernström\n\nDaniel Streich\n\n\n\nSee also List of American Muslims\n\nSalim Mehajer\n"}
{"id": "37155364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37155364", "title": "List of holding companies", "text": "List of holding companies\n\nUnder the United States Bank Holding Company Act, financial and bank holding companies are regulated by the US Federal Reserve. Companies whose elections to be treated as financial holding companies are effective include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29697716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29697716", "title": "Michel Esteban", "text": "Michel Esteban\n\nMichel Antoine Gaston Esteban (born 7 May 1951) is a French record producer, record company executive, cultural center director and former magazine editor, who founded the Paris shop Harry Cover in 1973, was influential in the early development of punk rock, and, together with Michael Zilkha, established the New York-based record label ZE Records in 1978.\n\nEsteban was born in Paris. From 1968, he studied graphic arts at L'École d'Arts Graphiques in the city, and in 1973 founded a shop in the Rue des Halles, Harry Cover, which specialised in rock merchandise, magazines and books as well as imported records from the US and UK. The basement was used as a rehearsal space by bands, particularly as the punk rock scene developed in the mid 1970s. In 1974 Esteban travelled around the US, returning to New York where he studied under Milton Glaser at the School of Visual Arts. He became a friend of Patti Smith, Robert Mapplethorpe, Richard Hell and Tom Verlaine of Television, and John Cale, and was a regular visitor to the CBGB music club. \n\nReturning to Paris in 1975, he founded the magazine \"Rock News\", which began chronicling the emergence of the punk music scene in the US, UK and France, coming into contact with Lester Bangs, Richard and Lisa Robinson, and Danny Fields in the US, and Malcolm McLaren and Vivienne Westwood in England. Together with then-girlfriend Lizzy Mercier Descloux, he attended many of the early punk performances in England, and published Mercier Descloux's first book of poems, \"Desiderata\", as well as Patti Smith's \"Witt\" and \"The Night\". He helped promote the first punk rock concerts in France, with the Sex Pistols in September 1976, and promoted the French band Stinky Toys in England.\n\nIn 1977, Esteban shared his time between Paris and New York, forming Rebel Records and recording French band Marie & les Garçons. In New York, he worked with John Cale, who introduced him to British-born entrepreneur and writer Michael Zilkha. They set up Cale's record label, SPY, before Esteban and Zilkha left to set up another label, ZE Records. At the time, Esteban was in a relationship with fashion editor Anna Wintour. Over the next four years, ZE became one of the most influential and fashionable record labels in the world, recording such artists as Kid Creole & the Coconuts, Was (Not Was), Bill Laswell, Lydia Lunch, and Suicide, and bringing together aspects of punk rock, the art of the Lower East Side such as Jean-Michel Basquiat and Keith Haring, and the disco scene. \n\nEsteban left New York after differences with Zilkha in 1982. In 1983 he produced the album \"Paolino Parc\" by French new wave band Octobre. He also continued to work closely with Lizzy Mercier Descloux, visiting, recording and undertaking promotional work in Asia, Africa, and South America. He produced her successful single \"Mais où sont passées les gazelles?\", and the albums \"Lizzy Mercier Descloux\" (1984) and \"One For The Soul\" (1986). In 1986, he began working with the Portuguese-born Belgian singer Lio, producing her albums \"Pop Model\" (1986) and \"Cancan\" (1988); their daughter was born in 1987 but they separated in 1989.\n\nDuring the 1990s, Esteban retreated from the music business and studied esoteric disciplines including Theosophy and Sufism. Later in the decade he recorded musicians in Cuba. In 2003 he re-established ZE Records, based in Paris, which has reissued many of the label's original recordings as well as new material, including Glasgow band Michael Dracula. He now lives in Salvador da Bahia, Brazil, where he has a cultural arts center project including galleries and recording studios.\n\n"}
{"id": "53977964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53977964", "title": "Paul Baccaglini", "text": "Paul Baccaglini\n\nPaul Baccaglini is an Italian American entrepreneur, investor, and former chairman of U.S. Città di Palermo, football (soccer) club based in Palermo, Italy.\n\nBaccaglini is an eccentric personality, known for his career in television. In 2017, he made news by attempting to acquire the Palermo soccer club from former owner Maurizio Zamparini; the takeover, originally agreed in March 2017, was called off by June of the same year before being finalized.\n\nRaised in the United States with an American father and Italian mother, Baccaglini was born in Chicago but spent most of his youth in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. Baccaglini's mother came to the United States to study Neurobiology at Harvard University, while his father is from Washington. His parents separated when he was 15 years old.\n\nAfter graduating from high school, Baccaglini later moved to his mother's native Italy to pursue a career in Basketball. Baccaglini played two years with the Serie C Gold Unione Basket Padova basketball club from 2002 to 2003, concluding his brief career with the Solesino basketball club.\n\nLeaving behind his sporting career, Baccaglini transitioned into work in radio, working for Radio Padova as host of the program \"The Groove\" for three years on RTL 102.5. Following his success in radio, Baccaglini began work for MTV and Italia 1, appearing regularly on the program Le Iene, on which he interviewed numerous personalities in politics. Baccaglini was known for his use of sarcasm and irony, and the program was well-known for deploying its hosts to dupe public figures for comic effect.\n\nBaccaglini claimed in an interview with \"La Gazzetta dello Sport\" that he has more than 60 tattoos.\n\nBaccaglini negotiated the purchase of U.S. Città di Palermo in secret for more than one year before finally coming to terms with former owner Maurizio Zamparini in March 2017. As part of the agreement, he was named as club chairman until the takeover was not finalized. In his initial press conference, he declared that his goal was to bring Palermo to be one of the best teams in Serie A, and to compete in the UEFA Champions League.\n\nBaccaglini claims that an investment in the club is better than investing in Chelsea F.C. due to the potential higher return on investment. Despite his initial enthusiasm for the potential takeover, Palermo's win-loss record did not improve enough to prevent the club from relegating to Serie B for the 2017-18 season.\n\nOn 4 July 2017, Baccaglini resigned as Palermo chairman, falling back into the hands of Zamparini, after the necessary funds were not in place.\n"}
{"id": "21113294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21113294", "title": "Peopleware", "text": "Peopleware\n\nPeopleware is a term used to refer to one of the three core aspects of computer technology, the other two being hardware and software. Peopleware can refer to anything that has to do with the role of people in the development or use of computer software and hardware systems, including such issues as developer productivity, teamwork, group dynamics, the psychology of programming, project management, organizational factors, human interface design, and human-machine-interaction.\n\nThe concept of peopleware in the software community covers a variety of aspects:\n\nThe neologism, first used by Peter G. Neumann in 1977 and independently coined by Meilir Page-Jones in 1980, was popularized in the 1987 book \"\" by Tom DeMarco and Timothy Lister.\n\nThe term \"Peopleware\" also became the title and subject matter of a long-running series of columns by Larry Constantine in Software Development magazine, later compiled in book form.\n"}
{"id": "1389813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1389813", "title": "Personal selling", "text": "Personal selling\n\nPersonal selling occurs when a sales representative meets with a potential client for the purpose of transacting a sale. Many sales representatives rely on a sequential sales process that typically includes nine steps. Some sales representatives develop scripts for all or part of the sales process. The sales process can be used in face-to-face encounters and in telemarketing.\n\nPersonal selling can be defined as \"the process of person-to-person communication between a salesperson and a prospective customer, in which the former learns about the customer's needs and seeks to satisfy those needs by offering the customer the opportunity to buy something of value, such as a good or service.\" The term may also be used to describe a situation where a company uses a sales force as one of the main ways it communicates with customers.\n\nThe earliest forms of exchange involved bartering systems. However, the advent of coinage enabled exchange to occur more efficiently and over much larger distances. The earliest references to selling, involving coin-based exchange, comes from Herodotus who noted that \"The Lydians were the first people we know of to use a gold and silver coinage and to introduce the retail trade.\" This implies that selling and buying, originated in the 7th century BCE, in the area now known as Turkey. From there, selling spread along Mediterranean, and then diffused throughout the civilized world.\n\nThe Socratic philosophers expressed some concerns about the new type of selling in around the 4th century BCE. Their commentary was primarily concerned with potential disruption of the more social aspects of selling. Traditional forms of exchange encouraged a social perspective - emphasising the social bonds that united members of a society. For example, during periods of drought or famine, individuals shared in the plight of their neighbours. However, the advent of this new form of selling encouraged a focus on the individual such that in times of scarcity, sellers raised their prices.\n\nDuring the Medieval period, trade underwent further changes. Localised trading based on transactional exchange and bartering systems was slowly transformed as transportation improved and new geographic markets were opened. From the 11th century, the Crusades helped to open up new trade routes in the Near East, while the adventurer and merchant, Marco Polo stimulated interest in the far East in the 12th and 13th centuries. Medieval merchants began to trade in exotic goods imported from distant shores including spices, wine, food, furs, fine cloth, notably silk, glass, jewellery and many other luxury goods. As trade between countries or regions grew, trade networks became more complex and different types of sellers filled in the spaces within the network. During the thirteenth century, European businesses became more permanent and were able to maintain sedentary merchants in a home office and a system of agents who operated in different geographic markets. Exchange was often conducted at arm's length, rather than face-to-face.\n\nLocal market traders and itinerant peddlers continued to supply basic necessities, but permanent retail shops gradually emerged from the 13th century, especially in the more populous cities. By the 17th century, permanent shops with more regular trading hours were beginning to supplant markets and fairs as the main retail outlet. Provincial shopkeepers were active in almost every English market town. These shopkeepers sold a very broad range of general merchandise, much like a contemporary general store.\n\nLarge business houses involved in import and export often offered additional services including finance, bulk-breaking, sorting and risk-taking. In the 17th century, the public began to make mental distinctions between two types of trader; local traders (Dutch: \"meerseniers\") which referred to local merchants including bakers, grocers, sellers of dairy products and stall-holders, and the merchants (Dutch: \"koopman\"), which described a new, emergent class of trader who dealt in goods or credit on a large scale. With the rise of a European merchant class, this distinction was necessary to separate the daily trade that the general population understood from the rising ranks of merchants who operated on a world stage and were seen as quite distant from everyday experience.\n\nIn 18th century England, large industrial houses, such as Wedgewood, began mass-producing certain goods such as pottery and ceramics and needed a form of mass distribution for their products. Some peddlers were employed by these industrial producers to act as a type of travelling sales representative, calling on retail and wholesale outlets in order to make a sale. In England, these peddlers were known as \"Manchester men\" because of the prevalence of the practice in the sale of cotton cloth manufactured in Manchester. Employed by a factory or entrepreneur, they sold goods from shop to shop rather than door to door and were thus operating as a type of wholesaler or distribution intermediary. They were the precursors to the field sales representative.\n\nSales activity can occur in many types of situations. Field representatives call on clients, who are typically business clients; door-to-door sales teams call on householders, sales staff may work in a retail or wholesale environment where sales personnel attend to customers by processing orders or sales may occur in a telemarketing environment where the sales person makes telephone calls to prospects. In terms of number of transactions, most selling occurs at the retail level; but in terms of value, most selling occurs at the high-end business-to-business level.\n\nDifferent types of sales roles can be identified:\n\nThe first text to outline the steps in the selling process was published in 1918 by Norval Watkins. The basic steps, which have changed only a little since Watkins first proposed them, are prospecting, qualifying leads, preapproach, approach, need assessment, presentation, meeting objections, closing the sale and following up.\n\nThe use of tightly written sales scripts has been known for hundreds of years. Itinerant medicine salesmen were known to use sales scripts in the seventeenth and eighteenth centuries. Experienced sales representatives soon recognise that specific words and phrases have the capacity to elicit desirable behaviours on the part of the prospect. Research studies can also be carried out to determine the most effective words/phrases or the optimal sequence of words/phrases for use in effective sales scripts. A number of research studies have focussed on the types of the use of verbal persuasive techniques that can be used to convince prospects such as information exchange, the use of recommendations, requests, promises, or ingratiation. Other research has focused on influence techniques employed. Well-known examples include the:\n\nOnce identified, these words, phrases and techniques can be used to build highly effective sales scripts that are known to work. The most effective sales scripts can be codified and used by other sales persons or in sales training.\nMany sales scripts are designed to move the prospect sequentially through the cognitive, affective and behavioural stages of the purchase decision process and are designed around the AIDA model (attention →interest →desire →action). Most sales representatives include a greeting, closing and call to action in their scripts. A \"call to action\" (CTA) is simply an instruction to the prospect designed to prompt an immediate response. It often involves the use of an imperative verb such as \"try it now\" or \"find out more.\" Other types of calls-to-action might provide consumers with strong reasons for purchasing immediately such an offer that is only available for a limited time, e.g. 'Limited stocks available' or a special deal usually accompanied by a time constraint, e.g. 'Order before midnight to receive a free gift with your order'. The key to a powerful call-to-action is to provide consumers with compelling reasons to purchase promptly rather than defer purchase decisions.\n\nSales representatives also learn to recognise specific verbal and non-verbal cues that potentially signal the prospect's readiness to buy. For instance, if a prospect begins to handle the merchandise, this may indicate a state of buyer interest. Clients also tend to employ different types of questions throughout the sales process. General questions such as, \"Does it come in any other colours (or styles)? indicate only a moderate level of interest. However, when clients begin to ask specific questions, such as \"Do you have this model in black?\" then this indicates that the prospect is approaching readiness to buy. When the sales person believes that the prospective buyer is ready to make the purchase, a \"trial close\" might be used to test the waters. A trial close is simply any attempt to confirm the buyer's interest in finalising the sale. An example of a trial close, is \"Would you be requiring our team to install the unit for you?\" or \"Would you be available to take delivery next Thursday?\"\n\nSales scripts are used for both inbound and outbound sales. Sales scripts are commonly used in cold calling, especially phone-based cold calling such as telemarketing (outbound selling) and can also be found in chat-based customer care centres (inbound calling). In such cases, the sales script might be confined to a simple list of talking points that the sales person uses as a reference during their conversation with the prospect.\n\nSome sales pitches are entirely scripted while others are only partially scripted allowing the individual sales representatives the flexibility to vary the presentation according to their assessment of the client's needs and interests. However, most effective sales representatives develop scripts for handling common objections and almost always have a number of different trial closes at hand.\n\nThere are three broad types of sales script:\n\nPrescribed scripts are highly detailed scripts which specify precise phrases to be used in given situations. Prescribed scripts are widely used in a variety of contexts including direct selling, market research, fast food service.\n\nThe main advantages of prescribed scripts are:\nThe main disadvantages of a prescribed script are:\n\nGoal driven scripts are more flexible. This type of script defines the goals for each type of transaction and allow employees to use their own phrases during the encounter. Provided that employees have a clear picture of the goals and purpose, goal-driven scripts can appear more natural and authentic. However the use of goal-driven scripts requires employees with well developed communication skills.\n\nThe hybrid approach offers a choice within a range of scripts. This approach is neither prescribed nor totally flexible. It provides a range of scripts from which employees select an option with which they feel comfortable.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47024518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47024518", "title": "Pery Igel", "text": "Pery Igel\n\nPery Igel (November 27, 1921 – September 24, 1998) was a Brazilian businessman. Igel was Ultra's second president, succeeding his father and company's founder, Ernesto Igel.\n\nIgel was the administrator and second president of Ultra. He took over the company created by his father, Ernesto Igel, in 1959. After two years as president, Igel moved the headquarters from Rio de Janeiro to São Paulo, Brazil. Under Pery’s administration, Oxiteno and Ultracargo were founded, two of the five divisions of Ultra, along with Ultragaz (first division of Ultra), as well as Ipiranga and Extrafarma, which were incorporated to the group respectively in 2007 and 2014.\n\nUnder his administration, the company created and also dissociated a number of other activities that have stopped being related to Ultra's long-term strategy, such as a domestic appliances retailer (Ultralar), an engineering company (Ultratec), a frozen food organization (Supergel,) and the fertilizer industry (Ultrafértil.)\n\nIgel stepped down as CEO in 1981 and appointed Vice President Paulo Cunha to the position. Igel became president of the Ultra's Board of Directors and remained its main shareholder. Após deixar a presidência executiva, Pery seguiu como presidente do Conselho Administrativo do Ultra e seu principal acionista.\n\nBefore his death in September 1998, Igel transferred the controlling shares of Ultra to his family and to a small group of Ultra executives through the creation of a holding company.\n"}
{"id": "38026622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38026622", "title": "Project Houdini", "text": "Project Houdini\n\nProject Houdini is a computer program used by the 2008 U.S. presidential campaign of Barack Obama. Although it originally had missteps, it has been credited with helping increase Democratic Party turnout over the 2004 election. It has been compared to ORCA, which failed under similar circumstances for the Mitt Romney's 2012 presidential campaign.\n\n"}
{"id": "54935916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54935916", "title": "Ralf Gathmann", "text": "Ralf Gathmann\n\nRalf Gathmann (born June 4, 1965) is a German entrepreneur. Gathmann is the chief executive officer of CORYS, which supplies training and engineering simulators to Transportation, Power, Oil&Gas and Chemical industries. He is also the former secretary of Rail Training International Limited. He holds a master's degree in Physics and a Ph.D. degree in engineering mechanics.\n\nIn 1993, Gathmann joined Corys R & D. \nHe did well working in the company and two years later, in 1995, he became a Deputy Technical Director. Later he took the position of Director of the Rail Sector Business Unit and since 2003, he held the position of Deputy Chief Operating Officer. Ralf Gathmann is appointed as a Managing Director of Corys in 2008.\n\nThen he developed the rail business and boosted its international expansion, before joining the operational management, the general management and then the positions of CEO in 2009.\n\nThis German national had worked at Rail Training International Limited from 2002 to 2003. Another company where Ralf Gathmann was appointed (on 2000) was Rail Training International Limited. He worked there until 2007.\n\nCorys is a French company based in Grenoble, is a world reference in training and engineering simulators.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39288599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39288599", "title": "Rashid Lombard", "text": "Rashid Lombard\n\nRashid Lombard (born 1951) is known as both a jazz photographer and political photojournalist. Lombard is the CEO of espAfrika, an events management company which he started in 1997. espAfrika is responsible for staging the Cape Town International Jazz Festival, formerly known as the North Sea Jazz Cape Town.\n\nRashid Lombard was born in Port Elizabeth, Eastern Cape, South Africa on 10 April 1951. His family moved to Cape Town in the early 1960s. Lombard trained as an architectural draughtsman and then worked as an industrial photographer for the construction company, Murray and Roberts, before becoming a photojournalist covering Africa, and, particularly, South Africa where he focussed on photographing the rise of the democratic movement.\n\nIn the 1980s he worked for the BBC, NBC, AFP and a number of progressive publications such as \"Grassroots\" and \"South\". His work has been part of exhibitions all over southern Africa, including the University of Zimbabwe in 1983 and the Staffrider exhibitions of 1984 and 1985. In 1985 his work formed part of the exhibition and book, \"South Africa: The Cordoned Heart, Essays by Twenty South African Photographers\", edited by Omar Badsha and published in New York. He was a member of the \"Vukalisa\" artists' collective which promoted community-based cultural activities.\n\nIn the mid 1990s he became station manager at Fine Music Radio, and then programming manager at P4 Smooth Jazz Radio. In 1998 Lombard approached the director of the North Sea Jazz Festival to stage a local festival in Cape Town. This was the start of the Cape Town International Jazz Festival, now in its 14th year. The Mandela Bay Music Festival was launched in Port Elizabeth, his home town, in 2011 with George Benson playing to a 28 000 strong crowd. Similar jazz festivals have been held in Mozambique and Angola and there are plans to expand into the rest of Africa including Namibia, Tanzania and Botswana.\n\nThe Cape Town International Jazz Festival brings more than 40 musicians to perform over two days attracting in excess of 30 000 people. It has been ranked in 2007 fourth in the world, below Montreaux and New Orleans Jazz and Heritage Festival and above the North Sea jazz Festival. Part of the week-long program focuses on workshops, training and mentoring sessions to develop music appreciation and performance. Top performers at the 2013 festival included the Buena Vista Social Club, Mi Casa, Jimmy Dludlu, Jill Scott, and Gregory Porter.\n\nLombard has photographed both local and international musicians, and has paid particular attention to recording South African musicians-in-exile like Hugh Masekela, Miriam Makeba and Abdullah Ibrahim. In 2010, he contributed to the exhibition at the Duotone Gallery at the Cape Town International Jazz Festival which paid tribute to South African saxophonist, Hugh Masekela.\n\nHis book of jazz photographs, \"Jazz Rocks\", was published in 2010 by espAfrika and Highbury/Safika Media. James Matthews, South African poet and writer, in the foreword to the book observed that \"Lombard's collection of photographs...is an ode to South Africa's jazz musicians...Each and every lovingly taken photo displays its empathy with the music and the players. As a photographer I don't think Rashid was ever really objective, he is far too personally engaged with his subjects for that.\"\n\n\"Jazz Rocks\" was edited by fellow photographer, George Hallett, who amongst others has won an award for his photographs of Nelson Mandela and worked on the Nobel Peace Centre project. The book chronicles the period from the early 1980s to roughly 2004. It is intended as a tribute to some of the musicians who Lombard has worked with and the important role that music played in the anti-apartheid struggle.\n\nIn his own words: \"Over the years I have spent so much time backstage that the space behind the music is a part of me. Many of the musicians I photographed were far more than just subjects to me. The musicians became my friends and family. We spent many hours honing our skills and teaching each other the politics of the arts.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1627686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1627686", "title": "Richard Wainwright (Spanish–American War naval officer)", "text": "Richard Wainwright (Spanish–American War naval officer)\n\nRear Admiral Richard Wainwright (17 December 1849 – 6 March 1926), son of Commander Richard Wainwright, was an officer in the United States Navy during the Spanish–American War.\n\nBorn in Washington, D.C., the son of Sarah Franklin Bache and Richard Wainwright. He was the grandson of Richard Bache, Jr., who served in the Republic of Texas Navy and was elected as a Representative to the Second Texas Legislature in 1847 and Sophia Burrell Dallas, the daughter of Arabella Maria Smith and Alexander J. Dallas an American statesman who served as the U.S. Treasury Secretary under President James Madison. He was great-grandson of Sarah Franklin Bache and Richard Bache, the great-great-grandson of Benjamin Franklin, and a nephew of George Mifflin Dallas the 11th Vice President of the United States who served under James K. Polk.\n\nWainwright was appointed to the US Naval Academy in 1864 by President Abraham Lincoln and graduated near the top of his class in 1868. Wainwright's early career is not well documented. From 1890 to 1893 he commanded the , and in 1896 he became the Chief Intelligence Officer of the Navy. In November 1897, he was ordered to the Armored Cruiser , to serve as executive officer under Captain Charles D. Sigsbee.\n\nOn the night the \"Maine\" was blown up in Havana harbor, Wainwright stood beside Sigsbee on the quarterdeck as the vessel was sinking. It was Wainwright who issued the order to lower the lifeboats in which the surviving crew escaped. From the beginning, Wainwright believed the \"Maine\" was not blown up by accident and he was impatient to avenge the death of the officers, bluejackets and Marines who died as a result.\n\nIn the interval between the blowing up of the Maine and the declaration of war against Spain, Wainwright was assigned command of the tender and placed in charge of the salvage survey and recovery of the bodies of the victims. He stayed aboard throughout the seven weeks long Sampson court of inquiry, never setting foot in ashore. As the initial salvage closed, for concern about oncoming war, Wainwright remained. On the day that the last salvage team was ordered home, the Spanish naval commander in Havana, Admiral Vincente Manterola, ordered the American flag, which was still flying from the rigging of the wrecked \"Maine\", struck. Wainwright heard of the order and, calling an interpreter, issued an order that immediately made him famous,\n\nWhen Wainwright did finally leave Havana, he hauled down the flag himself. On his arrival in Washington, the U. S. Navy was in the process of purchasing vessels that could be used in the war. Among them was a yacht, the \"Corsair\", owned by J. P. Morgan. She was converted into a gunboat, renamed the , and commissioned with Wainwright in command. In the Battle of Santiago de Cuba he engaged the Spanish torpedo boats \"Furor\" and \"Plutón\", driving them ashore as wrecks with her battery of 6-pounders. The victory came with no casualties, which was attributed to \"The accuracy and rapidity of her fire, making the proper service of the guns on the Spanish ships impossible.\" Wainwright was commended for his valor in this action and was advanced by ten numbers on the promotion seniority list.\n\nAfter ordering his heavily damaged flagship \"Infanta Maria Teresa\" to run aground, Spanish fleet commander Spanish Admiral Cervera, was picked up by the \"Gloucester\". Wainwright was there to greet him as he was brought aboard. \"I congratulate you, sir,\" said the American, \"on having made as gallant a fight as was ever seen on the sea.\"\n\nFrom 1900–1902, Wainwright was Superintendent of United States Naval Academy. During this time, the submarine boat was in Annapolis to train crews for submarines then under construction. Wainwright, having this opportunity to observe their operation, fully endorsed them for their planned harbor defense role.\n\nIn 1904 he commanded American forces during the Santo Domingo Affair in which his ships shelled rebel troops and supported an amphibious assault. Later, promoted to rear admiral, he commanded the Second Division of the Great White Fleet during that fleet's historic voyage around the world from 1907-1909.\n\nRetired from active duty on December 7, 1911. Admiral Wainwright died on March 6, 1926 in Washington, D.C.\n\nHe married on September 11, 1873 at Washington, D.C., Evelyn Wotherspoon, born June 13, 1853 at Washington, D.C., and died on November 24, 1937 at Washington, D.C. Their son, Richard Wainwright, Jr., Commander, United States Navy, earned the Medal of Honor for his service at Veracruz, Mexico, and is also buried in the cemetery at the United States Naval Academy.\n\nA Naval Academy classmate, Admiral Seaton Schroeder, became his brother-in-law when he married Wainwright's sister, Maria Campbell Bache Wainwright.\n\nThree ships have been named for Richard, his father, his son and two cousins.\n\n"}
{"id": "53175530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53175530", "title": "Sadad Ibrahim Al Husseini", "text": "Sadad Ibrahim Al Husseini\n\nDr. Sadad Ibrahim Al Husseini is a leading Saudi oil and gas industry expert. He is most widely known for his achievements during his tenure at Saudi Aramco as the Senior and Executive Vice President for Exploration and Producing, and his current work on supply side risk; referred to by the New York Times as “one of the most respected and accomplished oilmen in the world”.\n\nHe is credited with launching the field modernization and state of art reservoir management and development of Saudi Arabia’s giant oil fields, the upgrading of the company’s drilling, environmental, and upstream safety standards, the discovery and development of its Paleozoic oil and gas reservoirs, the discovery of its Red Sea oil and condensate fields, the initiation of its upstream advanced degree and specialists professional programs, and the development of its leading edge reservoir modelling and simulation capabilities at its purpose built Exploration and Petroleum Engineering Center,EXPEC. In 1988 he launched Aramco’s mothballing program for 3.5 million barrels of oil production capacity and in 1990, as a result of the Iraqi invasion of Kuwait, he led the Aramco team that re-activated the mothballed capacity thereby increasing Kingdom’s oil production from 5 million bd to 8.5 million bd within six months. In 1994 he launched the intensified non-associated Saudi gas exploration program which increased the Kingdom’s non-associated gas reserves by 30 Tcf within 4 years.\n\nIn 1996,Al Husseini was called upon by HM King Abdullah ibn Abdul Aziz to provide advisory support to the Kingdom’s leadership for the purpose of expanding its economy through a broader exploitation of its proven gas reserves. This culminated in the Kingdom’s Natural Gas Initiative in 1999 which invited international oil companies to participate in the development of the Kingdom’s non-associated gas reservoirs and the expansion of its power generation, desalination and petrochemical sectors. Following on his retirement from Saudi Aramco in 2004, Dr.Al Husseini co-founded and is president of Husseini Energy Company, a highly specialized oil and gas consulting firm based in Bahrain and Saudi Arabia.\n\nIn July 30, 2018, Al Hussenini said, “Rather than allowing these hostile maneuvers to go unnoticed in the eyes of the world, the Saudi (energy) minister has placed Iran’s subversions of the whole global economy under the spotlight for everyone to see,” “The capture of the port of Hodeidah will go a long way towards putting an end to these disruptions\".\n\nDr Sadad Al Husseini was born in Damascus in 1946 to Col. Ibrahim Abdulrahman Al Husseini and Myassar BachImam. His father was a leading Syrian nationalist and member of the Syrian military and political leadership until 1957. Al Husseini attended primary and secondary education at Notre Dame International School in Rome, Italy between 1955 and 1964. He and his family moved to Saudi Arabia in 1961 when King Faisal bin Abdul Aziz invited Col. Ibrahim Al Husseini to advise the Saudi Arabian Council of Ministers on national security matters and to support Prince Abdullah bin Abdul Aziz Al Saud as his special advisor in the establishment of the modern Saudi Arabian National Guard.\n\nOn February 8, 2011 The Guardian newspaper published US cables from Saudi Arabia that were obtained by WikiLeaks. The cables were based on a conversation attributed to Dr Sadad Al Husseini in 2007 claiming Dr Husseini thought Aramco’s reserves were overstated by as much as 300 billion barrels. The story gained traction in the press and caused tremendous damage to Dr Husseini’s reputation within the Kingdom. Dr Sadad Al Husseini maintained that the US cable gravely misrepresented his opinion and that the report was full of errors and rooky mistakes including quoting resource figures as reserve figures.Subsequently, Dr Sadad Al Husseini’s firm published a press release on February 9, 2011 in response to the significant errors in the cable and clarified Dr Sadad’s position on Saudi Arabia’s reserves and production capabilities.\n\n"}
{"id": "42327606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42327606", "title": "Senior peer counseling", "text": "Senior peer counseling\n\nSenior peer counseling, a.k.a. Peer counseling for seniors, provides senior citizens with a trained volunteer counselor to provide assistance with emotional support and encouragement to those who are experiencing life changes that often accompany aging. Seniors typically use counseling to discover ways to deal with grief, loss, physical limitations, financial issues, mild depression, family relationships, loneliness, isolation, housing situations, anxiety, change in cognitive function, and care giving for a spouse.\n\nThe original idea of Senior Peer Counseling was developed in 1977 by Evelyn Freeman, Ph.D. (1917–2013). She first created a program called Senior Health and Peer Counseling of Santa Monica, California. In 1986 in collaboration with others, she produced \"Peer Counseling for Seniors: A Trainer's Guide\".\nAs a result, various groups utilized her trainer's guide and Senior Peer Counseling programs became available in many California counties as well as in South Carolina, Colorado, Oregon, New Mexico, and Washington. The program is also available in Europe, Canada, and Japan.\nSponsorship of the program in those locations comes from county health services, interfaith councils, senior citizen advocacy groups, and non-profit organizations. These Senior Peer Counseling programs vary widely in their methods, and no one program is alike. However, they all operate in the spirit of Evelyn Freeman's vision of Senior Peer Counseling. In addition, even though no two programs are exactly alike, there is an organization called the American Association of Senior Peer Counseling that tries to bring together all of the various Senior Peer Counseling agencies to share opportunities for networking and information.\n\nIn general, Senior Peer Counseling volunteers are trained to provide one-on-one, (counselor and client) confidential counseling to other persons 50 years of age or older. The counseling sessions are goal-oriented or supportive and are in general one hour per week. The sessions are held in the client's home, a senior citizen center, or another confidential setting and are closely supervised by professionals, i.e., psychologists, marriage and family therapists, or social workers, who intervene, as appropriate, with suggestions about how to handle situations with clients or to provide resources.\nConfidentiality is only broken in exceptional circumstances, such as when there is suspected child or elder abuse or when the client reports he or she is at risk of suicide, homicide, or grave disability. In these events, counselings have specific reporting instructions to assure the safety of everyone concerned.\nReferrals to Senior Peer Counseling programs are often made by Adult Protective Services agencies, home health workers, hospitals, social workers, registered nurses, senior housing, or other agencies serving senior citizens. Elders may become aware of the program through postings in senior citizen centers, senior housing, or other agencies serving senior citizens, and may self-refer into the program.\n\nSeniors counseling can be effective because the counselors often have had life experiences similar to their clients. In contrast, professional counselors may unintentionally create a power imbalance with older clients unfamiliar with formal counseling and many senior clients will not seek formal counseling due to cost or perceived stigma. Senior peer counseling programs, therefore, may provide a more comfortable and supportive environment for the client.\n\nIn 2010-2011, Applied Survey Research (ASR) conducted a study of 43 senior peer counseling clients in San Mateo County, California. The study concluded that the clients had discussed personal issues in their lives more often with their senior peer counselors than with anyone else including family, friends, and neighbors. The study also found that 75% of the clients had reported the senior peer counseling had \"helped a lot\", especially with their concerns about food, health, loneliness, and sadness. Twenty-three percent reported it had \"helped a little bit\" and 3% reported it \"had not helped at all\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "426334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=426334", "title": "Small and medium-sized enterprises", "text": "Small and medium-sized enterprises\n\nSmall and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) or small and medium-sized businesses (SMBs) are businesses whose personnel numbers fall below certain limits. The abbreviation \"SME\" is used by international organizations such as the World Bank, the United Nations and the World Trade Organization (WTO).\n\nSMEs outnumber large companies by a wide margin and also employ many more people. For example, Australian SMEs make up 97% of all Australian businesses, produced one third of total GDP, and employ 4.7 million people. In Chile, in the commercial year 2014, 98.5% of the firms were classified as SMEs. In Tunisia, the self-employed workers alone account for about 28% of the total non-farm employment and firms with fewer than 100 employees account for about 62% of total employment. In developing countries, smaller (micro) and informal firms, have a larger share than in developed countries. SMEs are also said to be responsible for driving innovation and competition in many economic sectors. Although they create more jobs, there is also a majority of job destruction/contraction.\n\nSMEs are important for economic and social reasons, given the sectors role in employment. Due to their sizes, SME are heavily influenced by their Chief Executive Officers, a.k.a. CEOs. The CEOs of SMEs often are the founders, owners, and manager of the SMEs. The duties of a CEO in SME is difficult just like the CEOs of big companies. A CEO needs to strategically allocate her/his time, energy, and assets to direct the SMEs. Typically, the CEO Is the strategist, champion and leader for developing the SME or the prime reason for the business failing.\n\nAt the employee level, Petrakis and Kostis (2012) explore the role of interpersonal trust and knowledge in the number of small and medium enterprises. They conclude that knowledge positively affects the number of SMEs, which in turn, positively affects interpersonal trust. Note that the empirical results indicate that interpersonal trust does not affect the number of SMEs. Therefore, although knowledge development can reinforce SMEs, trust becomes widespread in a society when the number of SMEs is greater.\n\nSMEs' top management teams' leadership styles have an essential effect on business success and the development of SMEs. Many SMEs do not have a board and rely on its top management team (TMT), the top managers of a firm, to make the strategic decisions.\n\nTo thrive in our changing and complex business world, the modern SME must formulate strategies on where it wants to be in its marketplace. Its leadership then needs to acquire, and use wisely, the right human, financial and other resources to get there.\n\nSMEs face a lot of uncertainty and need to be flexible.\n\nSMEs need to balance many things at the same time, and being ambidextrous at tasks is key.\n\nIn our changing and complex business world, the modern SME should have the ability to change themselves.\n\nWhile startups are known for their innovation, SMEs often are small and focused enough to bring out innovation as well.\n\nBribery is an often-quiet but prevalent strategies of SMEs in many parts of the world.\n\nIn the internet and mobile world, SMEs face unique motivation and barriers in their e-commerce and online strategy. SMEs find an \"enhanced company brand and corporate image\" to be the most important e-commerce advantage, whereas \"doubts about the security and privacy\" is the most important barrier for SMEs to have an e-commerce and online strategy.\n\nMultilateral organizations have been criticized for using one measure for all. The legal boundary of SMEs around the world vary, and below is a list of the upper limits of SMEs in some countries.\n\nMost of Egypt's businesses are small-sized, with 97 percent employing fewer than 10 workers, according to census data released by state-run statistics body CAPMAS.\n\nMedium-sized enterprises with 10 to 50 employees account for around 2.7 percent of total businesses. However, big businesses with over 50 employees account for 0.4 percent of all enterprises nationwide.\n\nThe data is part of Egypt's 2012/13 economic census on establishments ranging from small stalls to big enterprises. Economic activity outside the establishments – like street vendors and farmers, for example – were excluded from the census.\n\nThe results show that Egypt is greatly lacking in medium-sized businesses.\n\nSeventy percent of the country's 2.4 million businesses have only one or two employees. But less than 0.1 percent – only 784 businesses – employ between 45 and 49 people.\n\nIn Kenya, the term changed to MSME, which stands for \"micro, small, and medium-sized enterprises\".\n\nFor micro enterprises, the maximum number of employees is up to 10 employees. For small enterprises, it is from 10 to 50. For medium enterprises, it is from 50 to 100.\n\nThe Central Bank of Nigeria defines small and medium enterprises in Nigeria according to asset base and number of staff employed. The criteria are an asset base that is between N5 million to N500 million, and a staff strength that is between 11 and 100 employees.\n\nIn Somalia, the term is SME (for \"small, medium, and micro enterprises\"); elsewhere in Africa, MSME stands for \"micro, small, and medium enterprises\". An SME is defined as a small business that has more than 30 employees but less than 500 employees.\n\nIn the National Small Business Amendment Act 26 0f 2003, micro-businesses in the different sectors, varying from the manufacturing to the retail sectors, are defined as businesses with five or fewer employees and a turnover of up to R100,000 ZAR. Very small businesses employ between 6 and 20 employees, while small businesses employ between 21 and 50 employees. The upper limit for turnover in a small business varies from R1 million in the Agricultural sector to R13 million in the Catering, Accommodations and other Trade sector as well as in the Manufacturing sector, with a maximum of R32 million in the Wholesale Trade sector.\n\nMedium-sized businesses usually employ up to 200 people (100 in the Agricultural sector), and the maximum turnover varies from R5 million in the Agricultural sector to R51 million in the Manufacturing sector and R64 million in the Wholesale Trade, Commercial Agents and Allied Services sector.\n\nA comprehensive definition of an SME in South Africa is therefore any enterprise with one or more of the following characteristics: \n\nUnder section 7 of the Micro, Small and Medium Enterprises Development (MSMED) Act, 2006, the Indian government defined the size of micro, small, and medium enterprises as:\nBusinesses that are declared as MSMEs and within specific sectors and criteria can then apply for \"priority sector\" lending to help with business expenses; banks have annual targets set by the Prime Minister's Task Force on MSMEs for year-on-year increases of lending to various categories of MSMEs.\n\nIn Indonesia, the government defines micro, small, and medium enterprises (Indonesian: \"Usaha Mikro Kecil dan Menengah\", UMKM) based on their assets and revenues according to Law No. 20/2008:\nAn annual revenue of Rp 50 billion is approximately equal to USD 3.7 million as of November 2017.\n\nIn Bangladesh, Bangladesh Bank defines Small and medium enterprises based on Fixed Asset, Employed Manpower and Yearly turn over and they are definitely not Public Limited Co. and requires these characteristics -\n\nWith effect from 1 April 2011, the definition of SMEs is businesses with annual sales turnover of not more than $100 million or employing no more than 200 staff.\n\nThe criteria for defining the size of a business differ from country to country, with many countries having programs of business rate reduction and financial subsidy for SMEs. According to the European Commission, the SME are the enterprises that meet the following definition of staff headcount and either the turnover or balance sheet total definitions:\n\nIn July 2011, the European Commission said it would open a consultation on the definition of SMEs in 2012. In Europe, there are three broad parameters which define SMEs:\nThe European definition of SME follows: \"The category of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs) is made up of enterprises which employ fewer than 250 persons and which have an annual turnover not exceeding 50 million euro, and/or an annual balance sheet total not exceeding 43 million euro.\" In order to prepare for an evaluation and revision of some features of the small and medium-sized enterprises definition European Union established public consultation period from 6 February 2018 to 6 May 2018. Public consultation is available for all EU member country citizens and organizations. Especially, national and regional authorities, enterprises, business associations or organizations, venture capital providers, research and academic institutions, and individual citizens are expected as the main contributors.\n\nEU member states have had individual definitions of what constitutes an SME. For example, the definition in Germany had a limit of 255 employees, while in Belgium it could have been 100. The result is that while a Belgian business of 249 employees would be taxed at full rate in Belgium, it would nevertheless be eligible for SME subsidy under a European-labelled programme.\n\nSMEs are a crucial element in the supplier network of large enterprises which are already on their way towards Industry 4.0.\nAccording to German economist Hans-Heinrich Bass, \"empirical research on SME as well as policies to promote SME have a long tradition in [West] Germany, dating back into the 19th century. Until the mid-20th century most researchers considered SME as an impediment to further economic development and SME policies were thus designed in the framework of social policies. Only the Ordoliberalism school, the founding fathers of Germany's social market economy, discovered their strengths, considered SME as a solution to mid-20th century economic problems (mass unemployment, abuse of economic power), and laid the foundations for non-selective (functional) industrial policies to promote SMEs.\"\n\nThe SME sector in Poland generates almost 50% of the GDP, and out of that, for instance, in 2011, micro companies\ngenerated 29.6%, small companies 7.7%, and medium companies 10.4% (big companies 24.0%; other entities 16.5%,\nand revenues from customs duties and taxes generated 11.9%). In 2011, out of the total of 1,784,603 entities operating in Poland, merely 3,189 were classified as \"large\", so 1,781,414 were micro, small, or medium.\nCompanies of the SMEs sector employed 6.3 million people out of the total of 9.0 million of labour employed in the\nprivate sector. In Poland in 2011 was 36.2 SMEs per 1,000 of inhabitants.\n\nIn the UK a company is defined as being an SME if it meets two out of three criteria: it has a turnover of less than £25m, it has fewer than 250 employees, it has gross assets of less than £12.5m. Many small and medium-sized businesses form part of the UK's currently growing \"Mittelstand\", or \"Brittelstand\" as it is also often named. These are businesses in Britain that are not only small or medium but also have a much broader set of values and more elastic definition.\n\nThe Department for Business Innovation and Skills estimated that at the start of 2014, 99.3% of UK private sector businesses were SMEs, with their £1.6 trillion annual turnover accounting for 47% of private sector turnover.\n\nIn order to support SMEs, the UK government set a target in 2010 \"that 25% of government’s spend, either directly or in supply chains, goes to SMEs by 2015\"; it achieved this by 2013.\n\nIn Switzerland, the Federal Statistical Office defines small and medium-sized enterprises as companies with less than 250 employees. The categories are the following:\n\nIndustry Canada defines a small business as one with fewer than 100 paid employees and a medium-sized business as one with at least 100 and fewer than 500 employees. As of December 2012, there were 1,107,540 employer businesses in Canada, of which 1,087,803 were small. Small businesses make up 98.2 percent of employer businesses, medium-sized businesses make up 1.6 percent of employer businesses and large businesses make up 0.1 percent of employer businesses. In 2012, over 7.7 million employees, or 69.7 percent of the total private labour force, worked for small businesses and 2.2 million employees, or 20.2 percent of the labour force, worked for medium-sized businesses. In total, SMEs employed about 10 million individuals, or 89.9 percent of employees. Canadian high-growth firms are present in every economic sector and are not just concentrated in knowledge-based industries. In terms of employment, the highest concentrations of high-growth firms in Canada during the 2006–2009 period were in construction (4.9 percent of all firms); business, building and other support services (4.6 percent); and professional, scientific and technical services (4.5 percent). In 2011, only 10.4 percent of SMEs exported. Nonetheless, they were responsible for $150 billion, or about 41.0 percent, of Canada's total value of exports.\n\nCorporations in Canada are generally taxed at 29% federally. Canadian Controlled private corporations receive a 17% reduction in the tax rate on taxable income from active businesses up to $500,000. This small business deduction is reduced for corporations whose taxable capital exceeding $10M, and is completely eliminated for corporations whose taxable capital exceeds $15M. It has been estimated that almost $2 trillion of Canadian SMEs will be coming up for sale over the next decade which is twice as large as the assets of the top 1,000 Canadian pension plans and approximately the same size as Canadian annual GDP.\n\nThe small and medium-sized companies in Mexico are called PYMEs, which is a direct translation of SMEs. But there's another categorization in the country called MiPyMEs. The MiPyMEs are micro, small and medium-sized businesses, with an emphasis on micro which are one man companies or a type of freelance.\n\nIn the United States, the Small Business Administration sets small business criteria based on industry, ownership structure, revenue and number of employees (which in some circumstances may be as high as 1500, although the cap is typically 500).\nBoth the US and the EU generally use the same threshold of fewer than 10 employees for small offices (SOHO).\n\nAlso in the United States, small and medium-sized manufacturers are referred to as SMMs, which the US Department of Energy classifies as having gross annual sales below $100 million, fewer than 500 employees at the plant site, and annual energy bills more than $100,000 but less than $2.5 million.\n\nIn Australia, a SME has 200 or fewer employees. Microbusinesses have 1–4 employees, small businesses 5–19, medium businesses 20–199, and large businesses 200+. Australian SMEs make up 97% of all Australian businesses, produced one third of total GDP, and employ 4.7 million people. SMEs represent 90 per cent of all goods exporters and over 60% of services exporters.\n\nIn New Zealand, 99% of businesses employ 50 or less staff, and the official definition of a small business is one with 19 or fewer employees.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13179109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13179109", "title": "TREX search engine", "text": "TREX search engine\n\nTREX is a search engine in the SAP NetWeaver integrated technology platform produced by SAP SE using columnar storage. The TREX engine is a standalone component that can be used in a range of system environments but is used primarily as an integral part of SAP products such as Enterprise Portal, Knowledge Warehouse, and Business Intelligence (BI, formerly SAP Business Information Warehouse). In SAP NetWeaver BI, the TREX engine powers the BI Accelerator, which is a plug-in appliance for enhancing the performance of online analytical processing. The name \"TREX\" stands for Text Retrieval and information EXtraction, but it is not a registered trademark of SAP and is not used in marketing collateral.\n\nTREX supports various kinds of text search, including exact search, boolean search, wildcard search, linguistic search (grammatical variants are normalized for the index search) and fuzzy search (input strings that differ by a few letters from an index term are normalized for the index search). Result sets are ranked using term frequency-inverse document frequency (tf-idf) weighting, and results can include snippets with the search terms highlighted.\n\nTREX supports text mining and classification using a vector space model. Groups of documents can be classified using query based classification, example based classification, or a combination of these plus keyword management.\n\nTREX supports structured data search not only for document metadata but also for mass business data and data in SAP Business Objects. Indexes for structured data are implemented compactly using data compression and the data can be aggregated in linear time, to enable large volumes of data to be processed entirely in memory.\n\nRecent developments include:\n\nThe first code for the engine was written in 1998 and TREX became an SAP component in 2000. The SAP NetWeaver BI Accelerator was first rolled out in 2005. As of Q1 2013, the current release of TREX is SAP NW 7.1.\n\nA security vulnerability in TREX was first identified and fixed in 2015 (see SAP Security Note 2234226). The vulnerability occurred due to lack of authentication in TREXnet, an internal communication protocol. The aforementioned patch fixed the problem by removing some critical functionality.\n\nLater on, ERPScan head of threat intelligence Mathieu Geli continued to look into the vulnerability and found that the vulnerability was still exploitable . Moreover, in case of successful attack, the vulnerability would allow a remote attacker to get full control over the server without authorization . The vulnerability has been finally patched via SAP Security Note 2419592.\n\n"}
{"id": "11875674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11875674", "title": "Van Westendorp's Price Sensitivity Meter", "text": "Van Westendorp's Price Sensitivity Meter\n\nThe Price Sensitivity Meter (PSM) is a market technique for determining consumer price preferences. It was introduced in 1976 by Dutch economist Peter van Westendorp. The technique has been used by a wide variety of researchers in the market research industry. The PSM approach has been a staple technique for addressing pricing issues for the past 20 years. It historically has been promoted by many professional market research associations in their training and professional development programs. The PSM approach continues to be used widely throughout the market research industry and descriptions can be easily found in many market research websites.\n\nThe assumption underlying PSM is that respondents are capable of envisioning a pricing landscape and that price is an intrinsic measure of value or utility. Participants in a PSM exercise are asked to identify price points at which they can infer a particular value to the product or service under study. PSM claims to capture the extent to which a product has an inherent value denoted by price.\n\nThe traditional PSM approach asks four price-related questions, which are then evaluated as a series of four cumulative distributions, one distribution for each question. The standard question formats can vary, but generally take the following form:\n\nThe cumulative frequencies are plotted, and PSM advocates claim interpretive qualities exist for any intersecting of the cumulative frequencies for each of the four price categories. Note that the standard method requires that two of the four cumulative frequencies must be inverted in order to have the possibility of four intersecting points. Conventional practice inverts the cumulative frequencies for \"too cheap\" and \"cheap\".\n\nThe general explanation of intersecting cumulative frequencies varies. A common description of the intersections is that the crossing of \"too cheap\" and \"expensive\" can be the lower bound of an acceptable price range. Some describe this as the \"point of marginal cheapness\" or PMC. Similarly, the intersection of the \"too expensive\" and \"cheap\" lines can be viewed as the upper bound of an acceptable price range. An alternative description is the \"point of marginal expensiveness\" or PME.\n\nIntersections where there is generally more agreement is the point at which the \"expensive\" line crosses the \"cheap\" line. This is described as the \"indifference price point\" or IPP. The IPP refers to the price at which an equal number of respondents rate the price point as either \"cheap\" or \"expensive\".\n\nFinally, the intersection of the \"too cheap\" and \"too expensive\" lines represents an \"optimal price point\" or OPP. This is the point at which an equal number of respondents describe the price as exceeding either their upper or lower limits. Optimal in this sense refers to the fact that there is an equal tradeoff in extreme sensitivities to the price at both ends of the price spectrum.\n\nWhile Van Westendorp himself did not attempt to solve the demand estimation problem (only pricing) three important extensions to the technique Newton/Miller/Smith (NMS), Martin Rayner Interpolation (MRI) and Roll/Achterberg (RA) were subsequently developed to address this problem and estimate demand.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2742643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2742643", "title": "WGBN", "text": "WGBN\n\nWGBN (AM 1360) is a gospel radio station that serves the Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania market. Owned by Pentecostal Temple Development Corporation, the station operates at 1360 kHz with a power of 5,000 watts daytime, 1,000 watts nighttime, and is licensed to McKeesport, Pennsylvania.\n\nThe station began broadcasting April 30, 1947, with the call letters WMCK, and under the ownership of the Mon-Yough Broadcasting Company. George Raikes served as company president, and Jack Craddock as general manager. Studios were located at 517 Market Street in McKeesport. Its initial programming included Pittsburgh Pirates baseball games. During these early years, the station broadcast at a full-time power of 1,000 watts, day and night, changing to a directional antenna pattern during the nighttime hours.\n\nIt was a Top 40 station with the call letters \"WIXZ\" (\"Wick-zee 1360\") beginning in 1969, following its acquisition by WWZ Corporation and the move of its studios and offices to the recently completed Monroeville Mall. Among its disc jockeys during the Top 40 era was Jeff Christie, better known today by his real name, Rush Limbaugh.\n\nOn June 19, 1974, the station was sold to Renda Broadcasting Corporation. Anthony F. Renda served as the company president and Melvin Abramovitz was appointed as station manager. By the end of the decade, the station changed its format to country and the studios and offices were moved to 400 Lincoln Highway in East McKeesport.\n\nOn July 16, 1985, Renda Broadcasting Corporation sold WIXZ to Serena Communications, a company owned by Renda executive Alan C. Serena. Renda had acquired Pittsburgh stations WJAS and WSHH the year before and was required to sell off WIXZ to comply with more stringent FCC ownership requirements at the time that limited owners to possess no more than one AM and one FM property in any given market. Serena maintained the format until September 1997, when Renda Broadcasting bought back the station after FCC ownership rules were relaxed.\n\nShortly after the re-acquisition, WIXZ switched to a talk format, then took the WPTT call letters (formerly on channel 22 in Pittsburgh). On August 19, 2008, Renda Broadcasting announced that WPTT would be switching formats from talk to financial advice; this was accompanied by a call change to WMNY. In all of its incarnations since WMCK, the radio station has positioned itself as a Pittsburgh outlet, rather than directly addressing the suburb of McKeesport, despite a weak nighttime signal.\n\nOn September 19, 2011, Renda Broadcasting announced that WMNY would return to its \"AM News Talk 1360\" format. This format contains numerous popular talk programs from the Talk Radio Network based radio network.\n\nIn July 2013, Renda Broadcasting announced that WMNY would be donated to Pentecostal Temple Development Corporation, licensee of WGBN in New Kensington. The transaction was completed on October 9, 2013. 1360 went off the air for about a month to allow engineering adjustments that would allow it to simulcast 1150's programming. The stations swapped call signs on March 1, 2014.\n"}
{"id": "37320112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37320112", "title": "Walter Chepman", "text": "Walter Chepman\n\nWalter Chepman was a Scottish merchant, notary and civil servant active in the late fifteenth and early sixteenth centuries. Chepman served at the Scottish court during the reigns of James IV and James V. \nIn partnership with Androw Myllar he established Scotland's first printing press in 1508. Chepman was also a significant patron of Saint Giles' Kirk in Edinburgh.\n\nChepman's first appearance in the historical record is in the accounts of the Lord High Treasurer of Scotland for 1494 in which he is recorded as receiving payment for clerical work at the royal court. He would continue to receive such payments for the remainder of his life.\n\nThe impression that Chepman was well-educated is supported by the fact that he acted as a notary in and around Edinburgh. His service at court also suggests that he was trusted by King James IV. In 1503, to coincide with the King's marriage, James presented Chepman with a suit of clothes of English fabric.\n\nWalter Chepman traded in imported textiles and timber and regularly supplied goods to the King.\nHe appears to have been a prosperous man. He owned tenements in Edinburgh's Blackfriars Wynd and, at the southern end of this wynd where it joined the Southgait, he and Androw Myllar would establish their press.\n\nChepman was married twice. His first wife was Margaret Kerkettle and, after being widowed, he married Agnes Cockburn.\n\nChepman died at an unknown point after 1528 and was buried in the chapel he had established at the Kirk of Saint Giles in Edinburgh, now known as the Chepman Aisle.\n\nIn September 1507 King James IV authorised Walter Chepman and Androw Myllar to establish a printing press and awarded the two partners a monopoly in printed books within Scotland. Androw Myllar was also a burgess of Edinburgh. He was a bookseller who had previously published books, printed in Rouen, intended for sale in England.\n\nChepman and Myllar's press was functional by the following Spring and was based in the Southgait of Edinburgh. Its works included a liturgical text known as The Aberdeen Breviary and 'The Chepman and Myllar Prints' which were a series of pamphlets containing popular literature in Scots and English.\n\nThe press did not have a long working life. The latest surviving example of its work is an edition of the Aberdeen Breviary dating to 1510.\n\nWalter Chepman paid for the foundation of two chapels at the Kirk of Saint Giles in Edinburgh.\n\nThe first chapel, founded in 1513 and abutting to the south of the church, offered masses for the souls of Chepman, his first wife and of the King and Queen. The equivalent part of the modern church is now known as 'The Chepman Aisle'. It contains the seventeenth century tomb of The Marquess of Montrose and a memorial plaque in honour of Walter Chepman donated by the nineteenth century publisher William Chambers.\n\nIn 1528 Chepman established a mortuary chapel, now lost, in the cemetery of Saint Giles' Kirk. It was dedicated to the performance of masses in honour of Chepman, both his wives, King James V, King James IV and all the Scots who had died at Flodden.\n"}
{"id": "2527211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2527211", "title": "Willy Naessens", "text": "Willy Naessens\n\nWilly Naessens is a well known industrialist in Belgium. Born around World War II in Wortegem-Petegem (between Oudenaarde and Ghent), East Flanders, Naessens grew up in a modest family.\n\nAt young age, he started a construction business called \"Naessens Constructions\", specializing in constructing big - but rather economised - industrial buildings and swimming pools. He became one of the most powerful Belgian industrialists. Nowadays, his corporate group participates in many branches of the construction sector, and in non-construction businesses, such as restaurants and sports-teams.\nNevertheless, he always gave a share to charity. For instance, he became very popular by paying a very expensive organ transplantation for a Belgian child. \n\n"}
