{"id": "16549073", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16549073", "title": "1939 German ultimatum to Lithuania", "text": "1939 German ultimatum to Lithuania\n\n1939 German ultimatum to Lithuania was an oral ultimatum presented to Juozas Urbšys, Foreign Minister of Lithuania, by Joachim von Ribbentrop, Foreign Minister of Nazi Germany, on 20 March 1939. The Germans demanded that Lithuania give up the Klaipėda Region (also known as the Memel Territory), which had been detached from Germany after World War I, or the Wehrmacht would invade Lithuania. After years of rising tension between Lithuania and Germany, increasing pro-Nazi propaganda in the region, and continued German expansion, the demand was expected. The ultimatum was issued just five days after the Nazi occupation of Czechoslovakia. The four signatories of the 1924 Klaipėda Convention, which had guaranteed the protection of the \"status quo\" in the region, did not offer any material assistance. The United Kingdom and France followed a policy of appeasement, while Italy and Japan openly supported Germany. Lithuania was forced to accept the ultimatum on 22 March. For Germany it was the last territorial acquisition before World War II; for Lithuania it was a major downturn in its economy and morale; for Europe it was a further escalation in pre-war tensions.\n\nKlaipėda (German: \"Memel\"), an important seaport in East Prussia, was detached from Germany by Article 28 of the Treaty of Versailles and was governed by the Allies according to Article 99. France assumed administration of the region while Lithuania continued to lobby for its control, claiming that it should belong to Lithuania as it had a significant Lithuanian population (see Lithuania Minor) and was that country's only access to the Baltic Sea. Poland also laid claim to the territory. As the Allies were hesitant to make a decision and it seemed that the region would remain a free state much like the Free City of Danzig, Lithuania took the initiative and organized the Klaipėda Revolt in January 1923. Soviet Russia and Germany supported the action. The region, as an autonomous territory with its own parliament (Klaipėda Parliament), was attached to Lithuania. The region covered about 2,400 km² and had a population of approximately 140,000.\n\nDuring the 1920s, Lithuania and Germany maintained a relatively normal relationship as they were united by anti-Polish sentiment. In January 1928, after long and difficult negotiations, Germany and Lithuania signed a border treaty, which left Klaipėda on the Lithuanian side. However, tensions began rising in the 1930s after the Weimar Republic was replaced with Nazi Germany. An especially tense period came in February 1934 when the Lithuanian government arrested dozens of pro-Nazi activists. In response to these arrests and trials, Germany declared a boycott of Lithuanian agricultural imports. The boycott caused an economic crisis in Suvalkija (southern Lithuania), where farmers organized violent protests. However, after the plebiscite in Saar most of the pro-Nazi prisoners received amnesty. In the wake of the amnesties, Lithuanian prestige suffered both abroad and in Klaipėda, allowing Germany to strengthen its influence in the region.\n\nIn the spring of 1938 Adolf Hitler personally stated that gaining Klaipėda was one of his highest priorities, second only to gaining the Sudetenland. When Poland presented its ultimatum to Lithuania in March 1938, Germany openly declared that in the event of a military clash between Poland and Lithuania, its army would invade Lithuania to capture Klaipėda and a large portion of western Lithuania. A week after Lithuania accepted the Polish ultimatum, Germany presented an eleven-point memorandum that demanded freedom of action for pro-German activists in the region and a lessening of Lithuanian influence there. Its points were worded in a deliberately vague manner, which would enable Germany to accuse Lithuania of violations. Lithuania chose to postpone dealing with the problem, hoping that the international situation would improve. In the meantime it hoped to give the German population no reasons for complaint.\n\nThis tactic did not prove successful: pro-Nazi propaganda and protests were rampant, even among the Lithuanian population, and the local government was powerless to prevent them. The Nazis physically harassed Lithuanian organizations. On 1 November 1938 Lithuania was pressured into lifting martial law and press censorship. During the December elections to the Klaipėda Parliament, pro-German parties received 87% of votes (25 seats out of 29) in the Klaipėda territory. Dr. Ernst Neumann, the chief defendant in the 1934 trials, was released from prison in February 1938 and became the leader of Klaipėda's pro-German movement. In December he was received by Adolf Hitler, who assured him that the Klaipėda issue would be resolved by March or April 1939. Neumann and other Nazi activists claimed the right of self-determination for the region and demanded that Lithuania open negotiations over the political status of Klaipėda. The parliament was expected to vote for a return to Germany when it convened on 25 March 1939. Germany's official channels maintained silence on the issue. Germany hoped that Lithuania would voluntarily give up the troubled region, and a public stance could have disturbed the sensitive discussions it was then engaged in with Poland over an anti-Communist alliance against the Soviet Union.\n\nRumors had reached the Lithuanian government to the effect that Germany had specific plans to take over Klaipėda. On 12 March Foreign Minister Urbšys represented Lithuania at the coronation of Pope Pius XII in Rome. On his return to Lithuania he stopped in Berlin with the hope of clarifying the growing rumors. On 20 March Ribbentrop agreed to meet with Urbšys, but not with Kazys Škirpa, who was asked to wait in another room. The conversation lasted for about 40 minutes. Ribbentrop demanded the return of Klaipėda to Germany and threatened military action. Urbšys relayed the verbal ultimatum to the Lithuanian government. Because the ultimatum was never set down in writing and did not include a formal deadline, some historians have downplayed its import, describing it as a \"set of demands\" rather than as an ultimatum. However, it was made clear that force would be used should Lithuania resist, and it was warned not to seek help from other nations. While a clear deadline was not given, Lithuania was told to make a speedy decision and that any clashes or German casualties would inevitably provoke a response from the German military.\n\nLithuania secretly informed the signatories of the Klaipėda Convention about these demands, since technically Lithuania could not transfer Klaipėda without the approval of the signatories. Italy and Japan supported Germany in the matter, while the United Kingdom and France expressed sympathy for Lithuania but chose not to offer any material assistance. They followed a well-publicized policy of appeasing Hitler. The UK treated the issue in the same way as it had treated the Sudeten Crisis and made no plans to assist Lithuania or the other Baltic States if they were attacked by Germany. The Soviet Union, while supporting Lithuania in principle, did not wish to disrupt its relations with Germany at that point, since it was contemplating an alliance with the Nazis. Without any material international support Lithuania had no choice but to accept the ultimatum. Lithuanian diplomacy characterized the concession as a \"necessary evil\" that would enable Lithuania to preserve its independence and maintained the hope that it was merely a temporary retreat.\n\nAt 1:00 am on 23 March Urbšys and Ribbentrop signed a treaty, effective 22 March, stating that Lithuania was voluntarily transferring the Klaipėda Region to Germany. The treaty comprised five articles:\n\nBefore the treaty was signed, German soldiers had already entered the port of Klaipėda. Adolf Hitler, on board the cruiser \"Deutschland\", personally toured the city and gave a short speech. The armada sailing to Klaipėda included the cruiser \"Admiral Graf Spee\", the light cruisers \"Nürnberg\", \"Leipzig\", and \"Köln\", two destroyer squadrons, three torpedo boat flotillas, and one tender flotilla. At the time the Lithuanian navy had only one warship, the \"Prezidentas Smetona\", a 580-ton converted minesweeper. While the Germans were celebrating the return of the city, European politicians expressed fears that the Free City of Danzig would be Hitler's next target.\n\nPresident Antanas Smetona's unconditional acceptance of a second ultimatum in the space of a little over one year became a major source of dissatisfaction with his authoritarian rule. The German ultimatum triggered a political crisis: the passive cabinet of Vladas Mironas was replaced by a cabinet headed by General Jonas Černius. For the first time since the 1926 coup d'état, the government included members of the opposition: Leonas Bistras, of the Lithuanian Christian Democratic Party, was named Minister of Education and Jurgis Krikščiūnas, of the Lithuanian Popular Peasants' Union, was named Minister of Agriculture. Because other parties were banned, Bistras and Krikščiūnas were officially billed as independent private citizens. Four generals were now members of the cabinet as well. However, even the looming international crisis did not induce Lithuanian politicians to unite, and they continued to engage in petty political disputes.\n\nThe loss of its only access to the Baltic Sea was a major blow to the Lithuanian economy. Between 70% and 80% of foreign trade passed through Klaipėda. The region, which represented only about 5% of Lithuania's territory, contained a third of its industry. Lithuania also lost its heavy investments in the port's infrastructure. About 10,000 refugees, mostly Jews, left the region and sought shelter and support from the Lithuanian government. Lithuanians doubted the fate of their country: in March–April withdrawals of deposits in banks and credit institutions totaled almost 20% of total deposits. After the loss of Klaipėda, Lithuania drifted into the German sphere of influence, especially in terms of trade. At the end of 1939, Germany accounted for 75% of Lithuanian exports and for 86% of its imports. Germany and the Soviet Union concluded the Molotov–Ribbentrop Pact in 1939, dividing Eastern Europe into their respective spheres of influence. Not surprisingly, Lithuania was, at first, assigned to Germany. The Nazis went so far as to suggest a German–Lithuanian military alliance against Poland and promised to return the Vilnius Region, but Lithuania held to its policy of strict neutrality.\n"}
{"id": "388088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=388088", "title": "1994 World Series", "text": "1994 World Series\n\nThe 1994 World Series would have been the championship series of Major League Baseball's (MLB) 1994 season, but it was canceled on September 14 of that year due to a strike by the MLB Players Association that started on August 12. It was only the second time in MLB history that a World Series was not played in a given season (the first being in 1904).\n\nThis was to have been the first year of a regularly scheduled three-tier playoff system, with the National League and American League divided into three divisions (East, Central, and West) at the start of the 1994 season. (An unscheduled three-tier system was used in 1981 due to the shortening of the season by a mid-season labor dispute.) The new playoff system (involving a wild card team in each league) did not go into effect until the 1995 postseason. Had the postseason taken place based on team records as of August 11, the participants in each division series would have been determined as follows:\n\nBecause division champions from 1994 are unofficial, the Atlanta Braves are officially credited with winning 14 consecutive division titles from 1991 to 2005, winning the NL West in the final three years of the two–division system and then winning 11 consecutive NL East titles from 1995 to 2005. At the time of the season's cancellation, however, the Braves were in second place in the NL East at 68–46, six games behind the Montreal Expos. The 11 titles from 1995 to 2005 are an MLB record nonetheless. The Braves had a 2½ game lead over the Houston Astros for the NL wild card at the time the rest of the season was canceled.\n\nAlthough the season ended abruptly, individual awards were still given, with Frank Thomas and Jeff Bagwell as league MVPs; David Cone and Greg Maddux as league Cy Young Award winners; and Bob Hamelin and Raúl Mondesí as league Rookie of the Year winners, each in the American League and National League, respectively.\n\nThe Baseball Writers' Association of America named managers of the year, which went to Buck Showalter of the New York Yankees, and Felipe Alou of the Montreal Expos, whose team's had the best record in each league when the season ended. Alou was additionally selected as manager of the year by the Associated Press, with Showalter finishing second. As All-Star Game managers are, by tradition, the managers of the previous year's league champions, Alou and Showalter were given the honor of managing in the 1995 All-Star Game.\n\nThe 1994 World Series was scheduled to air on ABC, in the first year of a six-year-long joint venture with Major League Baseball, ABC, and NBC called \"The Baseball Network.\" Because this Series was cancelled, ABC and NBC shared broadcast rights to the 1995 World Series, after which the joint venture was ended, and Fox started televising MLB games the following season. Fox and NBC would alternate World Series telecasts from up to , after which Fox held exclusive rights to all subsequent editions.\n\nDating back to the mid 1930s, home-field advantage in the World Series went to the National League champion in even-numbered years and the American League champion in odd-numbered years. The 1994 World Series was therefore scheduled to open in the NL city, but as the 1994 post-season was cancelled due to a players' union strike, this pattern was interrupted and reversed, with home-field advantage for the 1995 World Series assigned to the NL champion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47064433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47064433", "title": "2018 FINA World Swimming Championships (25 m)", "text": "2018 FINA World Swimming Championships (25 m)\n\nThe 14th FINA World Swimming Championships (25 m) is scheduled to be held December 11–16, 2018 in Hangzhou, China. These championships will feature swimming events in a 25-meter (short-course) pool.\n"}
{"id": "70942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=70942", "title": "477 BC", "text": "477 BC\n\nYear 477 BC was a year of the pre-Julian Roman calendar. At the time, it was known as the Year of the Consulship of Pulvillus and Lanatus (or, less frequently, year 277 \"Ab urbe condita\"). The denomination 477 BC for this year has been used since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the prevalent method in Europe for naming years.\n\n<onlyinclude>\n\n</onlyinclude>\n\nDuke Dao of Qin, ruler of the state of Qin\n"}
{"id": "21041404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21041404", "title": "Adrian Goldsmith", "text": "Adrian Goldsmith\n\nAdrian Philip \"Tim\" Goldsmith, (25 April 1921 – 25 March 1961) was an Australian flying ace of the Second World War. Officially credited with shooting down 16¼ enemy aircraft while serving with the Royal Australian Air Force, Goldsmith scored 12¼ of his victories during the Siege of Malta. His final four victories were achieved against Japanese aircraft while conducting operations over the South West Pacific.\n\nGoldsmith was born in the Sydney suburb of Waverley, New South Wales, on 25 April 1921 to Sidney Goldsmith, a timber merchant, and his English wife Philippa Mary (née Scott-Coward). Initially educated at Newington College, Goldsmith later attended Gosford High School following his family's move to Avoca Beach during the Great Depression. In 1937, aged 16, Goldsmith gained employment with the New South Wales Department of Works and Local Government as a clerk.\n\nOn 16 September 1940, Goldsmith enlisted in the Royal Australian Air Force for service during the Second World War. Accepted for pilot training, he graduated from his course and was posted to England in June 1941 with the rank of sergeant. During this time, he was briefly posted to No. 134 Squadron RAF and No. 242 Squadron RAF. On 10 December 1941, Goldsmith married Dorothea Rosemary Britton in a ceremony at Tuckingmill, Cornwall.\n\nIn February 1942, Goldsmith was posted to No. 126 Squadron RAF on Malta during a critical period in the Siege. Flying Hawker Hurricanes and Supermarine Spitfires during this time, Goldsmith managed to shoot down a Messerschmitt Bf 109 and damage another during an aerial engagement on 21 April; his own plane was damaged by a cannon shell fired by the third of four Bf 109s involved, partially jamming his ailerons. Within the first fortnight in May, Goldsmith had shot down a further six German and Italian aircraft and was subsequently recommended for the Distinguished Flying Medal. The announcement and accompanying citation for the award was published in a supplement to the \"London Gazette\" on 5 June 1942, reading:\n\nCommissioned as a pilot officer on 15 May, Goldsmith conducted a sortie against an Axis shipping convoy approximately from his base on 15 June. During the engagement, Goldsmith attacked a large formation of aircraft and was confirmed as shooting down two aircraft—a CANT Z.506 and a Fiat BR.20—with a probable third (a Macchi C.200), within a space of ten minutes. For his efforts during this action, Goldsmith was awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross. The notification and citation for the award was published in a supplement to the \"London Gazette\" on 7 July 1942, reading:\n\nBy the end of his tour in July 1942, Goldsmith had amassed a tally of 12¼ aircraft shot down. Returning to England, he served as a flying instructor before proceeding home to Australia. In January 1943, Goldsmith was posted as a flight commander to No. 452 Squadron RAAF, which was operating out of Batchelor, Northern Territory, in the defence of Darwin from Japanese air raids. The unit later relocated to Strauss, near Darwin, in February. On 2 May, Goldsmith was shot down and forced to bail out of his aircraft into the sea. After twenty-four hours in an inflatable dinghy, he was discovered and rescued.\n\nGoldsmith was promoted to acting flight lieutenant in September 1943, by which time he had credited with shooting down four Japanese aircraft in aerial engagements. During 1943, Goldsmith's wife was reported as missing and presumed killed while on a voyage to Australia. In April 1944, he was posted to Mildura, Victoria, as a flying instructor. On 21 October 1944, Goldsmith attended an investiture ceremony at Government House, Sydney, where he was decorated with his Distinguished Flying Cross and Distinguished Flying Medal by the Governor of New South Wales. Two days later, he married Doris May McGrath, an Army nurse, at St Mary's Catholic Church, Concord, New South Wales. Promoted to acting squadron leader, Goldsmith was discharged from the Air Force on 31 May 1945 due to medical reasons. By this time, he had been credited with an official tally of 16 aircraft shot down as well as a quarter shared victory, and a further three probables.\n\nRe-settling in Burwood, New South Wales, Goldsmith gained employment as a salesman. In 1946, he was employed by Commonwealth Oil Refineries Ltd and travelled around New South Wales with his work. He was later made State marketing-manager for the company, and returned to Sydney.\n\nOn 25 March 1961, Goldsmith died of peritonitis at the Sydney Sanitarium and Hospital following an operation for ileo-caecal volvulus. Survived by his wife and son, a second son was born in October 1961. Goldsmith was cremated and his ashes were later scattered over the Timor Sea.\n"}
{"id": "4294987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4294987", "title": "Almabtrieb", "text": "Almabtrieb\n\nThe Almabtrieb (in Switzerland: Alpabzug, Alpabfahrt, or in French speaking Switzerland: Désalpes; German language literally: \"drive from the mountain pasture\") is an annual event in the alpine regions in Europe, referring to a cattle drive that takes place in late September or early October.\n\nDuring summer, all over the alpine regions cattle herds feed on alpine pastures (\"Almen\" in Austria or Germany, \"Alpen\" in Switzerland) high up in the mountains, a practice known as transhumance. In numbers, these amount to about 500,000 in Austria, 380,000 in Switzerland, and 50,000 in Germany.\n\nWhile there is often some movement of cattle between the \"Almen\" (sing.: \"Alm\"), or \"Alpen\" (sing.: \"Alp\") respectively, during the summer, there is usually one concerted cattle drive in the autumn to bring the cattle to their barns down in the valley. If there were no accidents on the \"Alm\" during the summer, in many areas the cattle are decorated elaborately, and the cattle drive is celebrated with music and dance events in the towns and villages. Upon arrival in the valley, joint herds from multiple farmers are sorted in the \"Viehscheid\", and each animal is returned to its owner.\n\nIn many places this Alpine custom of \"Almabtrieb\" has today evolved into a major tourist attraction, with a public festival, and booths set up along the course for selling agricultural, as well as artisans', products along with alcoholic beverages.\n\nIn the spring, the reverse cattle drive moves from the valley barns to the \"Alp\" (in Switzerland: \"Alpaufzug\", \"Alpfahrt\", \"Alpauffahrt\"; in Germany/Austria: \"Almauftrieb\"). It is celebrated in Switzerland, though less well known. It is not celebrated in Germany and Austria, however.\n\n"}
{"id": "2697225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2697225", "title": "Ballad of Eric", "text": "Ballad of Eric\n\nThe \"Ballad of Eric\" () is a ballad found in Latin and Swedish about the legendary Gothic king Erik. It was once seen as a valuable source for Migration Period history, but is now regarded as an inauthentic piece of fakelore created during the 16th century. \n\nThe ballad was published for the first time in Latin by Johannes Magnus in his \"Historia de omnibus gothorum sueonumque regibus\" (1554). He states that the original was a song widely sung in Sweden at the time, but Johannes Magnus is not entirely reliable. The Latin text is composed of ten Sapphic stanzas. It tells the story of King Eric, whose career bears some similarities to a later king Berig whom Magnus claimed united the Swedes and Goths 400 years after Erik. Berig is also found in the Jordanes' 6th-century work \"Getica\". According to the text Eric, the first king of the Goths, sent troops southwards to a country named \"Vetala\", where no one had yet cultivated the land. In their company there was a wise man, a \"lawspeaker\", who was to uphold the law. Finally, the Gothic king Humli set his son Dan to rule the settlers, and after Dan, Vetala was named \"Denmark\". The first stanza:\n\nThe Swedish text is found in two different versions. One of them is found in Elaus Terserus' translation of Johannes Magnus' work, and this translation was done before 1611, but it was never published. The other one is found in Ericus Schroderus' translation of the same work, which was published in 1620. His version consists of ten five-line stanzas with the rhyme scheme , where the refrain C says \"His was Vetala's first harvest.\" There are also several later documentations of the song, which are not complete. One of them is found in Olof Verelius' work, in the annotations of the \"Hervarar saga ok Heiðreks\", and the other one in Johan Hadorph's work (1690). Both the versions are closely similar to Schroderus' version. Hadorph relates that the Eric song was still widely sung among the peasantry of Västergötland and Dalsland in the late 17th century.\n\nIn 1825 Erik Gustaf Geijer of the Geatish Society reproduced parts of the song. He believed that this was an ancient traditional text, and Geijer was a person of immense authority in Swedish academia. In an analysis of this song's weirdly archaic language in his 1848 PhD thesis, Carl Säve believed that the use of \"i\" and \"u\" instead of \"e\" and \"o\" indicated that it was first written down with the runic script. In 1853, Gunnar Olof Hyltén-Cavallius and George Stephens followed Säve. They had missed or just ignored that in 1850 P. A. Munch had argued that the ballad was dependent on the \"Prosaic Chronicle\" and suggested that it was composed ca 1449 or 1450. \n\nHenrik Schück initially accepted Munch's reasoning. However, he changed his mind, and argued in 1891 that everybody involved in presenting it lied about its wide currency and that it was composed by Johannes Magnus himself. After that, only Einar Nylén (1924) has tried to argue that a Swedish version existed before Johannes Magnus, but his opinion was rejected or ignored in subsequent scholarship.\n"}
{"id": "6153064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6153064", "title": "Bijou Theatre (Manhattan)", "text": "Bijou Theatre (Manhattan)\n\nTwo Broadway theatres have been named the Bijou Theatre.\n\nThe Theatre Brighton, at 1239 Broadway between 30th and 31st Streets, had been converted from a drinking and gambling establishment into a theatre for variety, and opened August 26, 1878 with Jerry Thomas as proprietor. The house had many changes and names until John A. McCaull, a Baltimore lawyer, and Charles E. Ford took charge of it. Considerable money was spent and when they reöpened the house on March 31, 1880, as the Bijou Opera-house, it looked like a modern and well-regulated theatre. In 1881 and 1882, Lillian Russell appeared in three different operettas.\n\nBut the house proved too small to be profitable, so after the performance of July 7, 1883 preparations for tearing it down were at once commenced: R. E. J. Miles and Gen. W. B. Barton leased the premises for five years from its owner, Edward F. James. They agreed to advance sufficient funds to erect a new house, which was designed by J. B. McElfatrick & Son and opened December 1, 1883 as the Bijou Theatre. The first production was \"Orpheus and Eurydice,\" an adaption by Max Freeman of Jacques Offenbach's \"Orfée aux enfers.\"\"\n\n\"Adonis\", starring Henry E. Dixey, played its record-breaking run of 603 performances at the Bijou beginning September 4, 1884. Another long run was \"The Music Master\", starring David Warfield, transferred from the Belasco Theatre on January 9, 1905, and playing 511 performances, for a total at the two theaters of 635, before closing September 29, 1906. The next big hit was \"A Gentleman from Mississippi\", starring Thomas A. Wise and Douglas Fairbanks, which opened September 29, 1908. From June 29 to August 7, 1909, it played at the Aerial Gardens atop the New Amsterdam Theatre, with new scenery and costumes, moving back to the Bijou August 9. After giving its 400th performance (counting the Aerial Gardens) on August 25, the play closed on September 18.\n\nThe Bijou was later used as a silent movie house. It was demolished in 1915 and replaced by the present high-rise office building, which opened in 1917.\n\n\nThe second Bijou Theatre was built by the Shubert family in 1917 at 209 W. 45th Street in New York City. It was one of three theaters that hosted the premiere season of the musical \"Fancy Free\"—but primarily it presented plays by many writers, including Sacha Guitry, John Galsworthy, A. A. Milne, James M. Barrie, Herman J. Mankiewicz, Leslie Howard, Anton Chekhov, Henrik Ibsen, Luigi Pirandello, Graham Greene, Eugene O'Neill, William Saroyan, and Seán O'Casey.\n\nIn 1950, as the Bijou, it hosted one film, \"Cyrano de Bergerac\", starring José Ferrer.\n\nIn 1951, it became a CBS radio studio, thenas the D. W. Griffith Theatreit presented art films. It was reinstated as the Bijou Theatre in 1965, but was demolished in 1982 to make room for the Marriott Marquis Hotel.\n\nShort citations\n\nNote\n\nFull citations\n"}
{"id": "47603971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47603971", "title": "Bir Mahali", "text": "Bir Mahali\n\nBir Mahali (or Birmahle) is a village in the eastern part of Aleppo Governorate in northern Syria, south of the Syrian Kurdish enclave Kobani and near the town of Sarrin.\n\nThe fishing and farming village on the banks of Euphrates is predominantly Arab-populated with some 4000 inhabitants.\n\nBetween 30 April and 1 May 2015, coalition airstrikes led by the United States, said to target ISIL, killed at least 64 civilians: 31 minors, 20 women, and 13 men. The strikes were ordered when an IS convoy of vehicles arrived in the village late on Thursday night.\n\nThe Syrian Observatory for Human Rights described the event as a \"massacre\" and said the attack on the village constitutes the highest civilian losses from an attack by US and allied Arab forces since the launch of their air campaign against ISIL on September 23, 2014.\n\nA United States Central Command spokesperson commented on 2 May 2015, \"We currently have no information to corroborate allegations that coalition airstrikes resulted in civilian casualties. Regardless, we take all allegations seriously and will look into them further.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "28652946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28652946", "title": "Bride scam", "text": "Bride scam\n\nA bride scam is a form of romance scam - a confidence trick that aims to defraud potential grooms with the offer of a foreign bride. The basis of the confidence trick is to seek men from the western world who would like to marry a foreign woman and pretend to be willing to marry them. The woman asks the man to send money, for example, for the purposes of purchasing an airline ticket or a visa they have no intention of buying. The relationship ends after requested money has been wired and received, sometimes after multiple transfers have been made.\n\nThis phenomenon increased in number with the rise of the internet with its online dating sites and online chats.\n\nThe general term \"bride scam\" can also encompass other scams such as dating scams, sex scams, and bride order scams over the internet. Many men are victims of a bride scam before they even realize it. Many men are looking for cheap sex but end up falling in love with the women involved. Most of these women think marrying a tourist can be seen as hitting the jackpot. They think that these men will have money and solve all their problems. Many men have sent over a hundred letters to these women but they never heard back from them. Some men sent them money for a plane ticket and never heard from them again. Scammers contact their victims directly through their email. This contact is unsolicited, meaning this person will contact a person without previous contact. Scammers will send emails of photos of pretty young women. These photos will be revealing and sexy as the correspondence goes. Usually to enable a personal meeting they need a visa to travel and purchase ticket money is needed.\n\nMany men turn to mail-order bride services. Before the internet, men traveled overseas to meet woman in the sex trade. The sex trade is one of the few opportunities available to poor, uneducated women who make every effort for financial progression. These women look for a profitable sexual transaction so they can gain a long-term relationship, marriage, migration, and escape poverty. The men believe that love will last forever which leads to marriage, family, and happiness.\n\nThe U.S. State Department often refers to bride scams as \"Boris and Natasha\" scams, when a lonely American man believes he has found a beautiful woman to marry except Natasha ends up being a Boris. Bride scams are a part of the rapidly growing criminal activity known as Cybercrime, which in 2007 and 2008 cost approximately 8 billion USD worldwide. Currently laws are unable to properly deal with the various forms of Cybercrime that are facing contemporary law enforcement agencies. The Federal Bureau of Investigation, as well as Interpol are currently working to establish working relationships with other global organizations to help combat this recent trend.\n\nMost of the current legislation in the United States surrounding international marriage brokers (IMBs) or Mail-order brides began in 1990 and was superseded multiple times, most recently in the 2005 International Marriage Broker Regulation Act (IMBRA). This legislation was focused on protecting the women involved who are made vulnerable due to the multitude of circumstances surrounding their move to the United States. Furthermore, some parts of the current legislation in the U.S. may hurt the ability of men to protect themselves against fraud. IMBRA stipulates that, \"IMBs may not disclose a recruit's personal information to a U.S. client until the recruit has reviewed any records retrieved and has returned a signed document in her primary language (no exceptions) consenting to the release of her information.\" The premise of this law may be to protect the women from domestic violence and exploitation and it probably does, the law does not provide inquiring men with enough protection. Currently, the only laws available to protect the rights of the men being targeted by bride scams are those concerning Cybercrime. The IMBRA did required the Attorney General to conduct a study on international marriage brokers, which sheds light on the women who use fraud to manipulate men with the promise of marriage before disappearing upon entry to the United States.\n\nThere are laws concerning computer fraud and they can be \"separated into two categories: 1) crimes facilitated by a computer and 2) crimes where a computer or network is the target.\" Bride scam refers to the first category, \"crimes facilitated by a computer,\" and is punishable according to U.S. law. U.S code number 18 U.S.C. § 1030. refers to Fraud and Related Activity in Connection with Computers, and explicitly states, \"Whoever with intent to extort from any person any money or other thing of value...\" is punishable by law.\n\nRussia is where many of the contemporary fraud experts claim the prospective brides come from, and many of the anti-scam sites look to combat this particular form of bride scam. Additionally, many IMBs offer opportunities to marry women from impoverished regions all over the world including Russians, Asians, and Latinas.\n\nWith the lack of governmental involvement concerning bride scams, many unaffiliated websites have started to provide people with the \"How to\" when it comes to avoiding being scammed. Most of these sites include a list of \"known russian scammers by name (photo, email etc)\" as well as any photos which are known to have been used by scammers in the past. Some people have even turned to private investigators to help them determine whether or not the woman they are courting actually exist.\n"}
{"id": "27602257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27602257", "title": "Cabinet of George Papandreou", "text": "Cabinet of George Papandreou\n\nFollowing the 4 October 2009 general elections in Greece, George Papandreou, the leader of the PA.SO.K., formed a government, which was sworn in on 7 October. A major cabinet reshuffle was made in September 2010. The cabinet was succeeded by the Lucas Papademos's Coalition Cabinet.\n\nThe cabinet has 36 members, 14 ministers and 22 deputy ministers, a reduction in the size of government as promised by the PA.SO.K. leader during his campaign for the country’s parliamentary elections. Twenty-four of the new members of the government had no previous ministerial experience. Nine of the members were women, a very large proportion by Greek standards, while five of them were named to head ministries among the 14 portfolios. Papandreou appointed himself foreign minister, a portfolio he held in a previous Pasok government.\n\nThe new cabinet features less ministries than usual in the past (four less than the previous cabinet), and significant changes in several of them:\n\nPrime Minister Papandreou's second cabinet was sworn in on 7 September 2010, after a major cabinet reshuffle with 48 cabinet members comprising the new government, of which seven members were alternate ministers – up from two in the previous Cabinet – and 24 deputy ministers. The majority of Cabinet members are M.P.s from the ruling PA.SO.K. party.The Ministry of Maritime Affairs, Islands and Fisheries - essentially the re-established Merchant Marine ministry - was established.\n\nPrime Minister George A. Papandreou announced a Cabinet reshuffle on 15 June 2011 amidst the worsening Greek debt crisis and mounting protests. The new cabinet was announced and sworn in on 17 June. It features 41 members, seven down from the 2010 cabinet, and a new ministry, that of Administrative Reform, split off from the Interior Ministry. The Ministry for Maritime Affairs, Islands and Fisheries, established in 2010, was dissolved and merged with the Ministry for Regional Development and Competitiveness. \n\nThe new cabinet received a vote of confidence on 21 June 2011, with 155 (51.7%) votes in favour (all from PA.SO.K. members), 143 (47.7%) against, and two (0.7%) abstentions.\n\nPrime Minister George A. Papandreou also announced the formation of a Government Committee (Κυβερνητική Επιτροπή) composed of leading ministers:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6557202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6557202", "title": "Calgary International Reggae Festival", "text": "Calgary International Reggae Festival\n\nThe Calgary International Reggae Festival is an annual event in Calgary, Alberta, Canada that is organized by the Calgary Reggae Festival Society.\n\nFeaturing a mixture of local and international reggae acts, the festival has taken place every year since 2004. Starting as a one-day event, by 2008 it had expanded to a ten-day festival. The festival was co-founded by Leo Cripps, the host of CJSW-FM's \"Caribbean Link-Up\" show, and from an early stage it was sponsored by radio station Vibe 98.5.\n\nThe 2014 event was headlined by Third World.\n\n"}
{"id": "35905976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35905976", "title": "Classicide", "text": "Classicide\n\nClassicide is the deliberate and systematic destruction, in whole or in part, of a social class through persecution and violence. The term \"classicide\" was termed by sociologist Michael Mann as a term that is similar but distinct from the term genocide. Examples includes Joseph Stalin's mass killing of the affluent middle-class peasant Kulaks who were identified as \"class enemies\" by the Soviet Union. Similar classicide has been committed by China during the Great Leap Forward, by North Vietnam as part of the Land Reform, and by the Khmer Rouge regime in Cambodia.\n\nClassicide is a term first used by Frederick Schwarz in his book \"The Three Faces of Revolution\". It was used later by Micheal Mann as a well defined term. Classicide has since been used by sociologists to describe the unique forms of genocide that pertains to the annihilation of a class through murder or displacement. Commonly used to describe the ideals of Karl Marx and the destruction of the upper class to form an equal working class.\n\nIn 1929, at the beginning of his dictatorship, Joseph Stalin demanded the \"liquidation of kulak's as a class\". The Kulaks were peasants who were deemed \"wealthy\" by Stalin in 1929. The idea for dekulakization first arose in 1918 from Vladamir Lenin, who claimed that the Kulak's were \"freeloaders\". The oppression of kulaks didn't end until 1932, throughout this time Kulak's were being evicted from their homes, having their land confiscated, shot, imprisoned, deported, or being sent to local work camps. Although the term classicide was never formally used to describe Stalin's destruction of the kulaks, Stalin did say that they had \"... gone over from a policy of limiting the exploiting tendencies of the kulak to a policy of eliminating the kulaks as a class.\" During the punishment of the kulaks under Stalin's leadership an estimated 14.5 million peasants died from starvation or punishment.\n\nIn 1947, during the Chinese Civil War, three years before the People's Republic of China, Mao Zedong won the hearts of the Communist Party and the peasant class by introducing a new land reform. This land reform encouraged the mass murder of landlords and well-off peasants in order to redistribute the land to the peasant class and other landless workers. The idea of killing landlords was first outlined by Kang Sheng, expert in terror tactics, in 1947. Ren Bishi, a member of the communist party's central committee, stated that \"30,000,000 landlords and rich peasants had to be destroyed\" (Rudolph J). The reform was an open door for violence when Mao insisted that the peasants themselves should do the killing. Landlords were tortured. They were dismembered, buried alive, strangled, shot, etc. There is no way to know exactly how many people were killed but the numbers range anywhere from one million to 28 million.\n\nIn 1969 in the midst of the Vietnam war, President Nixon staged massive attacks on Cambodian soil due to his beliefs that there were communist base camps as well as supplies and infantry hidden in Cambodia by the Viet Cong. Nixon also believed the Viet Cong enemy was bombing US soldiers from bases established in Cambodia as well. Cambodia’s then-president Lon Nol was initially unaware and did not address any of the Nixon bombings so they lasted from 1969-1975.\n\nVictims of the US attacks saw the American enemy as rich, upper-class and viewed Lon Nol as possessed the same characteristics as Nixon—rich and powerful. Pol Pot recognized the fear and hatred the people of Cambodia had towards the upper class and used this hostile environment as a tactic to gain control over the lower and upper classes which brought the Khmer Rouge reign his control.\n\nTo enforce his control over the regime, he would need to cleanse the country of anyone who fit the description of 'upper class’, and also the ‘Khmer minority’ who shared cultures with the former leader, Nol. Supporters of Nol were primarily rich, upper-class elite. Therefore, Pol Pot targeted these individuals. Anyone who was educated including doctors, lawyers, and teachers were murdered. Following the bombings, by Americans, Pol Pot persuaded victims of the bombings to join the Khmer Rouge by playing on their fearful state of mind. Anyone who would not cooperate was simply murdered.\n\nPol Pot’s actions eventually led to displacement and created refugees. He soon abolished civil and political liberties which allowed his policies for genocide to be permissible and remained unchecked. Although the majority of the Khmer population massacred were mostly Vietnamese immigrants and Cham minority, over 2 million Khmer natives were still murdered. Children were ripped from their families and their parents were killed in cold blood, soldiers and foreign language speakers were not excluded in the killings either. Pol Pot continued his raids by attacking border towns of Vietnam, which eventually ended his reign. Many natives of Cambodia believed that if it weren’t for the Vietnamese army fighting back, the killings would have lasted longer.\n\nHo Chi Minh, the former leader of North Vietnam, instituted land reform in the 1950s to redistribute land from the holdings of landlords to the peasantry. The landlords in North Vietnam became targets of smear campaigns by the government, in hopes that the peasantry would revolt against the upper class. Stories of rape, murder, and exploitation of the peasantry by landlords were told to gain the lower classes's support. The government purged landlords as a class. They were executed by firing squads, stoning, and starvation with some being put into reeducation programs. The number of landlords killed during the years of the land reform, range from 5,000 to 50,000. While the term classicide hasn't been used to distinguish the event, the term \"class genocide\" appears in Micheal Lind's book, \"Vietnam: The Necessary War\".\n\nMaximiliano Hernandez Martinez crushed an uprising of the peasant class with wholesale massacre of 10,000 to 40,000 civilians.\n\nAnti-homeless laws can criminalize homelessness and begging. Measures that prohibit natural human survival needs is referred to as anti-homeless laws. “Critics of homeless criminalization claim that such measures do nothing to actually solve homelessness and in fact make matters worse. Homeless people find it harder to secure employment, housing, or federal benefits with a criminal record, and therefore penalizing the act of being homeless makes exiting such a situation much more difficult.” Court rulings on anti-homeless laws can either challenge or reinforce the laws and can lead to exclusion of the homeless from society. “Unfortunately, over the past 25 years, cities across the country have penalized people who are forced to carryout out life-sustaining activities on the street and in public spaces; despite the fact these communities lack adequate affordable housing and shelter space. Ultimately, many of these measures are designed to move homeless persons out of sight, and at times out of a given city.”\n\n"}
{"id": "7164201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7164201", "title": "Commemoration (Anglicanism)", "text": "Commemoration (Anglicanism)\n\nCommemorations are a type of religious observance in the many Churches of the Anglican Communion, including the Church of England. They are the least significant type of observance, the others being Principal Feasts, Principal Holy Days, Festivals, and Lesser Festivals. Whereas Principal Feasts must be celebrated, it is not obligatory to observe Commemorations. They are always attached to a calendar date, and are not observed if they fall on a Sunday, in Holy Week, or in Easter Week. In \"Common Worship\" Commemorations are not provided with collects or indications of liturgical colour. However, they may be celebrated as Lesser Festivals if local pastoral conditions suggest it.\n\nA full list of all Anglican Holy Days includes Commemorations printed in \"italics\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42390483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42390483", "title": "CyberBerkut", "text": "CyberBerkut\n\nCyberBerkut (, ) is a modern organized group of pro-Russian hacktivists. The group became locally known for a series of publicity stunts and distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks on Ukrainian government, and western or Ukrainian corporate websites..\n\nThe group emerged after the dissolution of special police force \"Berkut\" that which had become notorious for its violent repression used during the EuroMaidan demonstrations. Composition is not known, for obvious reasons members of the community tend to remain anonymous, one of many groups visible only in social networks. Their proclaimed goals are fighting against neo-fascism, neo-nationalism and arbitrary power in Ukraine. To further this aim, CyberBerkut activists targeted the \"Right Sector\" IT resources. CyberBerkut's symbols resemble that of the Anonymous group. The prefix \"cyber\" probably alludes to working in the cyberspace (the Internet). CyberBerkut's targets have included NATO and its allies.\n\n\nThe group also publishes pro-Donetsk People's Republic videos. In one of them it is claimed that Ukrainian security forces are living under a \"Jewish occupation\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56704492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56704492", "title": "Deportation of the Balkars", "text": "Deportation of the Balkars\n\nThe Deportation of the Balkars was the expulsion by the Soviet government of the entire Balkar population of the North Caucasus to Central Asia on March8, 1944, during World War II. The expulsion was ordered by NKVD chief Lavrentiy Beria after approval by Soviet Premier Joseph Stalin. It was a part of a Soviet forced settlement program and population transfer that affected several million members of non-Russian Soviet ethnic minorities between the 1930s and the 1950s.\nOfficially the deportation was a response to the Balkars' supposed collaboration with occupying German forces. Later, in 1989, the Soviet government declared the deportation illegal.\n\nIn August 1942 five districts of the Kabardino-Balkar Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic (KBASSR) were occupied by German troops. Nalchik, capital of the KBASSR, was occupied on October24, 1942. When the Soviet military forces withdrew they failed to remove or destroy local factories. Most agricultural resources were also untouched; for example 315,000 sheep, 455,000 cattle and 25,000 horses were left for the advancing Germans. Local authorities attempted to organize several partisan groups, but, as the families of the partisans were not evacuated, these groups fall apart. Only one unit, consisting of 125 people was effective.\n\nIn early 1943 the KBASSR was liberated by the Soviet Army. Nalchik was liberated by troops of the 37th army together with local partisans. Despite this, according to Soviet reports in May 1943 there were 44 groups of anti-Soviet rebels, 941 people, on KBASSR territory; these included former Communist Party members.\n\nIt is believed that the reason for the deportation of the Balkars, in a broad sense, was the Stalinist system, which depended on the repression of the Soviet people. More specifically Kabarda and Balkaria had acquired a reputation for political unreliability during the repressions of the 1920-30s. During this period, from a Balkarian population of 359,236, 17,000 were arrested for political reasons, 9,547 of them were tried, and 2,184 shot. Repression continued during the prewar and war years. Many notable people were arrested and sentenced: H. Appaev — Chairman of the Chegemsky district Executive Committee, Deputy of the Supreme Soviet of the RSFSR; S. Chumakov — head of the CPSU, A. Mokaev — Chairman of the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet of the KBASSR; A. Nastev — Chairman of the Elbrus District Administration, Deputy of the Supreme Soviet of the USSR. All of them were rehabilitated in the 1950s and 1960s.\n\nHead of the NKVD Beria saw only \"a small contribution\" from the Balkar people in the fight against the Nazis, and even a \"betrayal\" amounting to a \"failure to protect Balkar Republic, Elbrus\". Z. D. Kumekhov, an ethnic Kabardinian and First Secretary of Communist Party's Local Committee, sent \"a report with descriptions of the current situation in Balkar's areas of the KBASSR\". It is believed that it was prepared for him by the NKVD. The paper contained detailed descriptions of the activities of gangs in the KBASSR including collaboration with German troops. Supposedly assisting the Soviet Army, many groups attacked local civilians and farmers. The NKVD reported that there were 1,737 people in these gangs. Kumekhov's report ended with the words \"Based on the above, we find it necessary to resolve the issue of the possibility of resettlement of the Balkars outside the KBASSR.\"\n\nIn a top-secret telegram to Stalin, Beria described the necessity of deportation is proved as follows:According to P. M. Polyan deportations, including that of the Balkars, were not preventive actions, but \"revenge\" for real or imagined war crimes against the Soviet Union.\n\nLavrentiy Beria arrived in Nalchik on 2 March 1944. In the early morning of March 8, 1944, two days earlier than planned, Balkar's population was ordered to get ready to leave their homes. The entire operation lasted about two hours. The entire Balkar population was evicted without exception. 17,000 NKVD troops and 4,000 local agents participated in this operation.\n\nBy 9 March, 37,713 Balkars were deported in 14 train convoys. They arrived at their destinations in the Kazakh and Kyrgyz Soviet Socialist Republic by 23 March. After the end of World War II, Karachai and Balkar officers of the Red Army were discharged and later also deported. Official Soviet documents reveal that 562 people died during the deportation. \n\nMany more died during the harsh years in exile and in labor camps. In total, it is estimated that 7,600 Balkars died as a consequence of the deportation, amounting to 19.82 percent of their entire ethnic group.\n\nStalin's successor, Nikita Khrushchev, delivered a secret speech at the Party Congress on February 24, 1956, condemning these Stalinist deportations. Like the other rehabilitated people, the Balkars were then allowed to return from exile to their homeland. They found their homes and farms pillaged and in ruins. While 64 million roubles were allocated to assist the Balkars in rebuilding their housing, they were never given full financial compensation for their lost property or suffering in exile.\n\nThe 1959 Soviet census counted 42,408 Balkars. This is a population 10,000 below what was expected before the deportation. Some Balkars maintain that their status of autonomy is still not resolved.\n\n"}
{"id": "32419826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32419826", "title": "Forged endorsement", "text": "Forged endorsement\n\nForged endorsement is a legal term used to describe a fraudulent payment. For example, someone may write a cheque with a forged signature. In this case the forged signature makes the endorsement fraudulent. Forging endorsements can be use to prevent the person or legal entity that the payment is made out to from being able to receive its value (such as cashing a cheque).\n\nIf an instrument is endorsed in full, it cannot be endorsed or negotiated except by an endorsement signed by the person to whom or to whose order the instrument is payable. Thus, if such an instrument is negotiated by way of a forged endorsement, the endorsee will not acquire the title even though he be a purchaser for value and in good faith, because the endorsement is nullity. But where the instrument has been endorsed in blank, it can be negotiated by mere delivery and the holder derives his title independent of the forged endorsement and can claim the amount from any of the parties to the instrument.\n\nA bill is endorsed, “payable to X or order”. X endorses it in blank and it comes into the hands of Y, who simply delivers it to A. A would then forge Y's endorsement and transfers it to B. B, as the holder, does not derive his title through the forged endorsement to Y, but through the genuine endorsement of X and can claim payment from any of the parties to the instrument in spite of the intervening forged endorsement.\n"}
{"id": "1944391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1944391", "title": "Four Inns Walk", "text": "Four Inns Walk\n\nThe Four Inns Walk is a hiking event held annually over the high moorlands of the Northern Peak District. It takes place mainly in Derbyshire (though it starts in Yorkshire and, near the end, makes a short detour into Cheshire), in northern England. It is organised by the Scout Association. It is a competitive event, without an overnight camp (although teams must be equipped to bivouac if the conditions are severe enough to warrant it). It was first held as a Rover Scout event in 1957, but is now open to other teams of experienced hill walkers and fell runners.\n\nThe event is undertaken in teams of three or four, for safety reasons, and at least two of these team members must be at least 17 (the others may be 16) on the day of the event. An amount of equipment must be carried by the team, including survival bags, emergency rations, a first-aid kit, and a group shelter. Any member of a team is allowed to drop out at any point, but the rest of the team will not be permitted to continue the event unless they are in a group of not less than 3, or more than 7 people (which can be formed by combining two groups together). The remaining team members must still carry all of the safety equipment. Any team that has not reached the checkpoint at Chapel-en-le-Frith before 21:15 will not be allowed to complete the rest of the event. No dogs are allowed to accompany the walkers.\n\nThe 40-mile (65 km) hike starts at the local church of Holmbridge. The first of the 12 checkpoints is the derelict 'Isle of Skye' Inn, then the route heads south, crossing the flanks of Black Hill. Next, it passes through Hey Moss, Crowden, Tor Side, Bleaklow, and Doctor's Gate to the 'Snake (Pass) Inn'. The next checkpoint is over the Kinder plateau to the 'Nag's Head' Inn in Edale. The route then passes though Chapel-en-le-Frith, White Hall, and the Goyt Valley to the 'Cat and Fiddle' Inn, finally descending to Buxton for the finish.\nUsually, two thirds of the teams finish the event, in times between 8 and 16 hours (the course record of 6 hours 38 minutes was set in 2013). However, some teams take longer than this, and some have taken over 20 hours. At most of the checkpoints, hot drinks and sandwiches will be given to the competitors, and several Mountain Rescue teams are on hand to ensure their safety.\n\nA number of trophies are available for teams that complete the event. These are:\n\nThree Rover Scouts, aged 19, 21, and 24 died in the 1964 event. The youngest was a member of the 32nd Huddersfield (Dalton) Rover Crew. The two older were from the Birmingham University Rover Crew. Travelling lightly laden and without support, they were overtaken by deteriorating weather, including 30 mph winds, heavy rain, and temperatures from 0 to 7 °C above the Snake Pass. The youngest of the group got into trouble in the upper reaches of the Alport Valley. One of his team members summoned help and he was brought down to Alport Castles Farm by the Glossop Rover Crew. He was taken to hospital but died later. The other two scouts who died were in a separate team, but in the same area. A third member of that team was found in the Alport and taken to safety, but he was unable to give accurate information about where the rest of the team were. Because of the worsening weather, the search had to be called off during the night, but it was resumed on Sunday morning. However, it was not until Monday afternoon that the first body was recovered. By Tuesday, 370 people were involved with the search and the second body was recovered later that morning.(In that year, when the event fell in mid-March, only 22 of the initial field of over 240 finished).\nThere is a Memorial Tablet to the three Scouts in Holy Trinity Church, Edale, dedicated in a memorial service held on Sunday, 22 May 1966.\n\nAn MRC (Medical Research Council) respiration and metabolism project, devised to identify the metabolic and biochemical basis for this tragedy, was performed during the 1965 event, with young volunteers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14233", "title": "Hate speech", "text": "Hate speech\n\nHate speech is speech that attacks a person or group on the basis of attributes such as race, religion, ethnic origin, national origin, sex, disability, sexual orientation, or gender identity. The law of some countries describes hate speech as speech, gesture or conduct, writing, or display that incites violence or prejudicial action against a protected group or individual on the basis of their membership of the group, or because it disparages or intimidates a protected group, or individual on the basis of their membership of the group. The law may identify a protected group by certain characteristics. In some countries, hate speech is not a legal term. Additionally in some countries, including the United States, hate speech is constitutionally protected.\n\nIn some countries, a victim of hate speech may seek redress under civil law, criminal law, or both. A website that contains hate speech (online hate speech) may be called a \"hate site\". Many of these sites contain Internet forums and news briefs that emphasize a particular viewpoint.\n\nThere has been debate over freedom of speech, hate speech and hate speech legislation.\n\nAlthough hate speech can be uttered and published \"just under the radar\" in some countries, this does not mean it is undetected or condoned. In addition to being studied in civil and criminal law, engagement in hate speech or text is evidence of psychological and social disorder and ill-being such that the field is of importance to the study of medicine, social anthropology and religion also.\n\nWhile hate speech could be countered under obscenity law (on par with sexual obscenity, for example), as distinct from freedom of speech laws and censorship, little has been done to effectively pursue that direction of justice. Nonetheless, in terms of the adverse health effects hate speech is a matter that concerns Public Health for hate—as a social disease—has the characteristics of a contagious disease where the medical model is used. Hate speech affects the first victim who is the perpetrator and then the second victim upon whom the perpetrator imposes his or her own self hate (Provost, 2013). Habitual hate speech is a form of verbal menacing of which there are two types: actual or vrais menacing and posturing or faux menacing and gesture. \"Vrais\" menacing constitutes intent to enact not just psychological harm but also bodily, psychological, metaphysical, spiritual and social harm. \"Faux\" menacing enacts all but bodily attacks to control and intimidate, being a form posturing and verbal gesture, as in the world of non-sentient animals, and is tolerated—even valorized—in some societies as \"honour crimes\" not so much against the primary victim who suffers the bodily, psychological, metaphysical, spiritual and social harm and attack but in actuality against a relative or member of the victim's family, organization, or community (Provost, 2017). Computer programming software—new machine learning models—are now used to analyze speech and text for evidence of hate speech as overt and covert violence, including cyber-bullying. For example, the Hate Speech Detection Library for Python. The main challenge with detecting hate whether in speech or in text depends on distinguishing profane speech from hate speech (Malmasi and Zampier, 2017). There are more incidents of misogyny (hate of girls and women) which masquerades as pornography, prostitution and trafficking, for example, while incidents of misandry are rare (Dana Daniels, 2016).\n\nThe International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR) states that \"any advocacy of national, racial or religious hatred that constitutes incitement to discrimination, hostility or violence shall be prohibited by law\". The Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination (ICERD) prohibits all incitement of racism. Concerning the debate over how freedom of speech applies to the Internet, conferences concerning such sites have been sponsored by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees.\n\nThe global capacity of the internet makes it extremely difficult to set limits or boundaries to cyberspace. Additionally, the United States' strong commitment to the First Amendment makes it impossible for worldwide internet policies to be put in place. Seeking other options both legally and technologically (such as monitoring, IPS user agreements, user end software and hotlines) will at least minimize the harm done due to hate speech.\n\nLaws against hate speech can be divided into two types: those intended to preserve public order and those intended to protect human dignity. Those designed to protect public order require a higher threshold be violated, so they are not specifically enforced frequently. For example, in Northern Ireland, as of 1992 only one person was prosecuted for violating the regulation in twenty-one years. Those meant to protect human dignity have a much lower threshold for violation, so those in Canada, Denmark, France, Germany and the Netherlands tend to be more frequently enforced.\n\nAustralia's hate speech laws vary by jurisdiction, and seek especially to prevent victimisation on account of race.\n\nThe Belgian Anti-Racism Law, in full, the \"Law of 30 July 1981 on the Punishment of Certain Acts inspired by Racism or Xenophobia\", is a law against hate speech and discrimination that the Federal Parliament of Belgium passed in 1981. It made certain acts motivated by racism or xenophobia illegal. It is also known as the \"Moureaux Law\".\n\nThe Belgian Holocaust denial law, passed on 23 March 1995, bans public Holocaust denial. Specifically, the law makes it illegal to publicly \"deny, play down, justify or approve of the genocide committed by the Nazi German regime during the Second World War.\" Prosecution is led by the Belgian Centre for Equal Opportunities. The offense is punishable by imprisonment of up to one year and fines of up to €2,500.\n\nIn Brazil, according to the 1988 Brazilian Constitution, racism is an \"Offense with no statute of limitations and no right to bail for the defendant.\"\n\nIn Canada, advocating genocide against any \"identifiable group\" is an indictable offence under the \"Criminal Code\" and carries a maximum sentence of five years' imprisonment. There is no minimum sentence.\n\nPublicly inciting hatred against any identifiable group is also an offence. It can be prosecuted either as an indictable offence with a maximum sentence of two years' imprisonment, or as a summary conviction offence with a maximum sentence of six months' imprisonment. There are no minimum sentences in either case. The offence of publicly inciting hatred makes exceptions for cases of statements of truth, and subjects of public debate and religious doctrine. The landmark judicial decision on the constitutionality of this law was \"R v Keegstra\" (1990).\n\nAn \"identifiable group\" is defined for both offences as \"any section of the public distinguished by colour, race, religion, national or ethnic origin, age, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity or expression or mental or physical disability\".\n\nArticle 31 of the \"Ley sobre Libertades de Opinión e Información y Ejercicio del Periodismo\" (statute on freedom of opinion and information and the performance of journalism), punishes with a large fine those who “through any means of social communication makes publications or transmissions intended to promote hatred or hostility towards persons or a group of persons due to their race, sex, religion or nationality\". This law has been applied to expressions transmitted via the internet. There is also a rule increasing the penalties for crimes motivated by discriminatory hatred.\n\nThe Council of Europe has worked intensively on this issue. While Article 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights does not prohibit criminal laws against revisionism such as denial or minimization of genocides or crimes against humanity, as interpreted by the European Court of Human Rights (ECtHR), the Committee of Ministers of the Council of Europe went further and recommended in 1997 that member governments \"take appropriate steps to combat hate speech\" under its Recommendation R (97) 20. The ECtHR does not offer an accepted definition for \"hate speech\" but instead offers only parameters by which prosecutors can decide if the \"hate speech\" is entitled to the protection of freedom of speech.\n\nThe Council of Europe also created the European Commission against Racism and Intolerance, which has produced country reports and several general policy recommendations, for instance against anti-Semitism and intolerance against Muslims.\n\nThe Croatian Constitution guarantees freedom of speech, but the Croatian penal code prohibits discrimination and punishes anyone \"who based on differences of race, religion, language, political or other belief, wealth, birth, education, social status or other properties, gender, skin color, nationality or ethnicity violates basic human rights and freedoms recognized by the international community.\"\n\nDenmark prohibits hate speech, and defines it as publicly making statements by which a group is threatened ('), insulted (') or degraded (\"\") due to race, skin colour, national or ethnic origin, faith or sexual orientation.\n\nThere has been considerable debate over the definition of \"hate speech\" (\"vihapuhe\") in the Finnish language.\n\nIf \"hate speech\" is taken to mean ethnic agitation, it is prohibited in Finland and defined in the section 11 of the penal code, \"War crimes and crimes against humanity\", as published information or as an opinion or other statement that threatens or insults a group because of race, nationality, ethnicity, religion or conviction, sexual orientation, disability, or any comparable trait. Ethnic agitation is punishable with a fine or up to 2 years in prison, or 4 months to 4 years if aggravated (such as incitement to genocide).\n\nCritics claim that, in political contexts, labeling certain opinions and statements \"hate speech\" can be used to silence unfavorable or critical opinions and suppress debate. Certain politicians, including Member of Parliament and the leader of the Finns Party Jussi Halla-aho, consider the term \"hate speech\" problematic because of the disagreement over its definition.\n\nFrance's penal code and press laws prohibit public and private communication that is defamatory or insulting, or that incites discrimination, hatred, or violence against a person or group on account of place of origin, ethnicity or lack thereof, nationality, race, specific religion, sex, sexual orientation, or handicap. The law prohibits declarations that justify or deny crimes against humanity—for example, the Holocaust (Gayssot Act).\n\nIn Germany, \"Volksverhetzung\" (\"incitement to hatred\") is a punishable offense under Section 130 of the \"Strafgesetzbuch\" (Germany's criminal code) and can lead to up to five years' imprisonment. Section 130 makes it a crime to publicly incite hatred against parts of the population or to call for violent or arbitrary measures against them or to insult, maliciously slur or defame them in a manner violating their (constitutionally protected) human dignity. Thus for instance it is illegal to publicly call certain ethnic groups \"maggots\" or \"freeloaders\". \"Volksverhetzung\" is punishable in Germany even if committed abroad and even if committed by non-German citizens, if only the incitement of hatred takes effect within German territory, e.g., the seditious sentiment was expressed in German writing or speech and made accessible in Germany (German criminal code's Principle of Ubiquity, Section 9 §1 Alt. 3 and 4 of the Strafgesetzbuch).\n\nOn June 30, 2017, Germany approved a bill criminalizing hate speech on social media sites. Among criminalizing hate speech, the law states that social networking sites may be fined up to €50 million (US$56 million) if they persistently fail to remove illegal content within a week, including defamatory \"fake news\".\n\nIn Iceland, the hate speech law is not confined to inciting hatred, as one can see from Article 233 a. in the Icelandic Penal Code, but includes simply expressing such hatred publicly:\n\nIn this context \"assault\" does not refer to physical violence but only to verbal assault.\n\nFreedom of speech and expression is protected by article 19 (1) of the constitution of India, but under article 19(2) \"reasonable restrictions\" can be imposed on freedom of speech and expression in the interest of \"the sovereignty and integrity of India, the security of the State, friendly relations with foreign States, public order, decency or morality, or in relation to contempt of court, defamation or incitement to an offence\".\n\nIndonesia has been a signatory to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights since 2006, but has not promulgated comprehensive legislation against hate-speech crimes. Calls for a comprehensive anti-hate speech law and associated educational program have followed statements by a leader of a hard-line Islamic organization that Balinese Hindus were mustering forces to protect the \"lascivious Miss World pageant\" in “a war against Islam\" and that \"those who fight on the path of Allah are promised heaven\". The statements are said to be an example of similar messages intolerance being preached throughout the country by radical clerics.\n\nThe National Police ordered all of their personnel to anticipate any potential conflicts in society caused by hate speech. The order is stipulated in the circular signed by the National Police chief General Badrodin Haiti on Oct. 8, 2015.\n\nThe Constitution of Ireland guarantees Irish citizens the right \"to express freely their convictions and opinions\"; however, this right is \"subject to public order and morality\", mass media \"shall not be used to undermine public order or morality or the authority of the State\", and \"publication or utterance of blasphemous, seditious, or indecent matter is an offence\". The Prohibition of Incitement to Hatred Act 1989 made it an offence to make, distribute, or broadcast \"threatening, abusive or insulting\" words, images, or sounds with intent or likelihood to \"stir up hatred\", where \"hatred\" is \"against a group of persons in the State or elsewhere on account of their race, colour, nationality, religion, ethnic or national origins, membership of the travelling community or sexual orientation\". The first conviction was in 2000, of a bus driver who told a Gambian passenger \"You should go back to where you came from\". Frustration at the low number of prosecutions (18 by 2011) was attributed to a misconception that the law addressed hate crimes more generally as opposed to incitement in particular. In 2013 the Constitutional Convention considered the constitutional prohibition of blasphemy, and recommended replacing it with a ban on incitement to religious hatred. This was endorsed by the Oireachtas, and in 2017 the Fine Gael-led government planned a referendum for October 2018.\n\nJapanese law covers threats and slander, but it \"does not apply to hate speech against general groups of people\". Japan became a member of the United Nations International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination in 1995. Article 4 of the convention sets forth provisions calling for the criminalization of hate speech. But the Japanese government has suspended the provisions, saying actions to spread or promote the idea of racial discrimination have not been taken in Japan to such an extent that legal action is necessary. The Foreign Ministry says that this assessment remains unchanged.\n\nIn May 2013, the United Nations Committee on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (CESCR) warned the Japanese government that it needs to take measures to curb hate speech against so-called comfort women. The committee's recommendation called for the Japanese government to better educate Japanese society on the plight of women who were forced into sexual slavery to prevent stigmatization, and to take necessary measures to repair the lasting effects of exploitation, including addressing their right to compensation.\n\nIn 2013, following demonstrations, parades, and comments posted on the Internet threatening violence against foreign residents of Japan, especially Koreans, there are concerns that hate speech is a growing problem in Japan. Prime Minister Shinzō Abe and Justice Minister Sadakazu Tanigaki have expressed concerns about the increase in hate speech, saying that it \"goes completely against the nation's dignity\", but so far have stopped short of proposing any legal action against protesters.\n\nOn 22 September 2013 around 2,000 people participated in the \"March on Tokyo for Freedom\" campaigning against recent hate speech marches. Participants called on the Japanese government to \"sincerely adhere\" to the International Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination. Sexual minorities and the disabled also participated in the march.\n\nOn 25 September 2013 a new organization, \"An international network overcoming hate speech and racism\" (Norikoenet), that is opposed to hate speech against ethnic Koreans and other minorities in Japan was launched.\n\nOn 7 October 2013, in a rare ruling on racial discrimination against ethnic Koreans, a Japanese court ordered an anti-Korean group, Zaitokukai, to stop \"hate speech\" protests against a Korean school in Kyoto and pay the school 12.26 million yen ($126,400 U.S.) in compensation for protests that took place in 2009 and 2010.\n\nA United Nations panel urged Japan to ban hate speech.\n\nIn May 2016 Japan passed a law dealing with hate speech. However, it does not ban hate speech and sets no penalty for committing it.\n\nSeveral Jordanian laws seek to prevent the publication or dissemination of material that could provoke strife or hatred:\n\nThe Maltese criminal code through Articles 82A-82D prohibits in substance hate speech comprehensively as follows:\n\nThe Dutch penal code prohibits both insulting a group (article 137c) and inciting hatred, discrimination or violence (article 137d). The definition of the offences as outlined in the penal code is as follows:\n\nIn January 2009, a court in Amsterdam ordered the prosecution of Geert Wilders, a Dutch Member of Parliament, for breaching articles 137c and 137d. On 23 June 2011, Wilders was acquitted of all charges. In 2016, in a separate case, Wilders was found guilty of both insulting a group and inciting discrimination for promising an audience that he would deliver on their demand for \"fewer Moroccans.\"\n\nNew Zealand prohibits hate speech under the Human Rights Act 1993. Section 61 (Racial Disharmony) makes it unlawful to publish or distribute \"threatening, abusive, or insulting ... matter or words likely to excite hostility against or bring into contempt any group of persons ... on the ground of the colour, race, or ethnic or national or ethnic origins of that group of persons\". Section 131 (Inciting Racial Disharmony) lists offences for which \"racial disharmony\" creates liability.\n\nNorway prohibits hate speech, and defines it as publicly making statements that threaten or ridicule someone or that incite hatred, persecution or contempt for someone due to their skin colour, ethnic origin, homosexual orientation, religion or philosophy of life. At the same time, the Norwegian Constitution guarantees the right to free speech, and there has been an ongoing public and judicial debate over where the right balance between the ban against hate speech and the right to free speech lies. Norwegian courts have been restrictive in the use of the hate speech law and only a few persons have been sentenced for violating the law since its implementation in 1970. A public Free Speech committee (1996–1999) recommended to abolish the hate speech law but the Norwegian Parliament instead voted to slightly strengthen it.\n\nThe hate speech laws in Poland punish those who offend the feelings of the religious by e.g. disturbing a religious ceremony or creating public calumny. They also prohibit public expression that insults a person or a group on account of national, ethnic, racial, or religious affiliation or the lack of a religious affiliation.\n\nArticle 369 of the Criminal Code, titled 'Incitement to hatred or discrimination', prohibits hate speech directed against a group of persons. The offense carries a punishment of 6 months to 3 years' imprisonment, or a fine.\n\nAccording to Article 282 of the Criminal Code, 'Raising hates or hostility, or equally humiliation of human dignity':\n\nThe Serbian constitution guarantees freedom of speech, but restricts it in certain cases to protect the rights of others. The criminal charge of \"Provoking ethnic, racial and religion based animosity and intolerance\" carries a minimum six months prison term and a maximum of ten years.\n\nSingapore has passed numerous laws that prohibit speech that causes disharmony among various religious groups. The Maintenance of Religious Harmony Act is an example of such legislation. The Penal Code criminalizes the deliberate promotion by someone of enmity, hatred or ill-will between different racial and religious groups on grounds of race or religion. It also makes it an offence for anyone to deliberately wound the religious or racial feelings of any person.\n\nIn South Africa, hate speech (along with incitement to violence and propaganda for war) is specifically excluded from protection of free speech in the Constitution. The Promotion of Equality and Prevention of Unfair Discrimination Act, 2000 contains the following clause:\n\nThe \"prohibited grounds\" include race, gender, sex, pregnancy, marital status, ethnic or social origin, colour, sexual orientation, age, disability, religion, conscience, belief, culture, language and birth.\n\nThe crime of \"crimen injuria\" (\"unlawfully, intentionally and seriously impairing the dignity of another\") may also be used to prosecute hate speech.\n\nIn 2011, a South African court banned \"Dubula iBhunu (Shoot the Boer)\", a derogatory song that degraded Afrikaners, on the basis that it violated a South African law prohibiting speech that demonstrates a clear intention to be hurtful, to incite harm, or to promote hatred.\n\nIn October 2016, \"the draft Hate Crimes Bill was introduced. It aims to address racism, racial discrimination, xenophobia and discrimination based on gender, sex, sexual orientation and other issues, by providing an offence of hate crime. It includes controversial provisions that criminalize hate speech in ways that could be used to impermissibly restrict the right to freedom of expression\". The Foundation of Economic Education views this bill as a repetition of a mistake during the apartheid era, some maintaining that it constitutes \"the gravest threat to freedom of expression which South Africans have ever faced.\"\n\nSweden prohibits hate speech, and defines it as publicly making statements that threaten or express disrespect for an ethnic group or similar group regarding their race, skin colour, national or ethnic origin, faith, or sexual orientation. The crime does not prohibit a pertinent and responsible debate (\"en saklig och vederhäftig diskussion\"), nor statements made in a completely private sphere. There are constitutional restrictions pertaining to which acts are criminalized, as well limits set by the European Convention on Human Rights. The crime is called \"Hets mot folkgrupp\" in Swedish, which directly translates to \"Incitement (of hatred/violence) towards population groups.\"\n\nThe sexual orientation provision, added in 2002, was used to convict Pentecostalist pastor Åke Green of hate speech based on a 2003 sermon. His conviction was later overturned.\n\nIn Switzerland public discrimination or invoking to rancor against persons or a group of people because of their race, ethnicity, is getting penalized with a term of imprisonment until 3 years or a mulct. In 1934, the authorities of the Basel-Stadt canton criminalized anti-Jewish hate speech, e.g., the accusation of ritual murders, mostly in reaction against a pro-Nazi antisemitic group and newspaper, the .\n\nI. \"\"Constitution of Ukraine\" :\n\nThe most important law of the Ukraine country : the \"Constitution of Ukraine\"\" guarantees protection against Hate crime :\n\n\"\"Constitution of Ukraine\"\" :\n\nArticle 24: \"There can be no privileges or restrictions on the grounds of race, color of the skin, political, religious or other beliefs, sex, ethnic or social origin, property status, place of residence, language or other grounds\".\n\nArticle 37: \"The establishment and activity of political parties and public associations are prohibited if their program goals or actions are aimed at ...the propaganda of war and of violence, the incitement of inter-ethnic, racial, or religious enmity, and the encroachment on human rights and freedoms and the health of the population\". \nII. \"CRIMINAL CODEX OF UKRAINE\" :\n\nin Ukraine, all criminal punishments for crimes committed under the law are required to be registered in only one law, it is the only one: \"CRIMINAL CODEX OF UKRAINE\"\n\nThe crimes committed for Hate crime reinforce the punishment in many articles of the criminal law. There are also separate articles on punishment for Hate crime.\n\n\"CRIMINAL CODEX OF UKRAINE\" :\n\nArticle 161 : \"Violations of equality of citizens depending on their race, nationality, religious beliefs, disability and other grounds\n\n1. Intentional acts aimed at incitement to national, racial or religious hatred and violence, to humiliate national honor and dignity, or to repulse citizens' feelings due to their religious beliefs, \n\nas well as direct or indirect restriction of rights or the establishment of direct or indirect privileges citizens on the grounds of race, color, political, religious or other beliefs, sex, disability, ethnic or social origin, property status, place of residence, language or other grounds\"(Maximum criminal sentence of up to 8 years in prison)\n\nArticle 300 : \"Importation, manufacture or distribution of works promoting a cult of violence and cruelty, racial, national or religious intolerance and discrimination\" (Maximum criminal sentence of up to 5 years in prison) \n\nIn the United Kingdom, several statutes criminalize hate speech against several categories of people. The statutes forbid communication that is hateful, threatening, or abusive, and targets a person on account of disability, ethnic or national origin, nationality (including citizenship), race, religion, sexual orientation, or skin colour. The penalties for hate speech include fines, imprisonment, or both. Legislation against Sectarian hate in Scotland, which is aimed principally at football matches, does not criminalise jokes about people's beliefs, nor outlaw \"harsh\" comment about their religious faith.\n\nThe United States does not have hate speech laws, since American courts have repeatedly ruled that laws criminalizing hate speech violate the guarantee to freedom of speech contained in the First Amendment to the U.S. Constitution. There are several categories of speech that are not protected by the First Amendment, such as speech that calls for imminent violence upon a person or group. However, the U.S. Supreme Court has ruled that hate speech is not one of these categories. Court rulings often must be reexamined to ensure the U.S. Constitution is being upheld in the ruling on whether or not the words count as a violation.\n\nProponents of hate speech legislation in the United States have argued that freedom of speech undermines the 14 Amendment by bolstering an oppressive narrative which demeans equality and the Reconstructive Amendment's purpose of guaranteeing equal protection under the law.\n\nThe Council of Europe-sponsored \"No Hate Speech\" movement actively raises awareness about hate speech, in order to help combat the problem. A growing awareness of this topic has resulted from educational programs in schools, which has enhanced reporting of hate speech incidences.\n\nOn May 31, 2016, Facebook, Google, Microsoft, and Twitter, jointly agreed to a European Union code of conduct obligating them to review \"[the] majority of valid notifications for removal of illegal hate speech\" posted on their services within 24 hours.\n\nPrior to this in 2013, Facebook, with pressure from over 100 advocacy groups including the Everyday Sexism Project, agreed to change their hate speech policies after data released regarding content that promoted domestic and sexual violence against women led to the withdrawal of advertising by 15 large companies.\n\nMany extremist organizations disseminate hate speech by publishing posts that act as prompts. Content analysis algorithms catch obvious hate speech, however they don't pick up covert hate speech. Therefore, though an original post may technically adhere to hate speech policy, the ideas the post conveys prompts readers to use the comment section to spread overt hate speech. These sections are not monitored as heavily as main posts.\n\nAccording to the ritual model of communication, racist expressions allow minorities to be categorized with negative attributes tied to them, and are directly harmful to them. Research published by Mari Matsuda \"et al\". found that racist speech could cause in the recipient of the message direct, adverse physical and emotional changes. The repeated use of such expressions cause and reinforce the subordination of these minorities. A 2009 article by Andrew Bolt has been named in the literature as an example of this phenomenon. The article in question suggested that Aboriginal Australians of lighter complexion were not being truthful about their ethnicity.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39274469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39274469", "title": "History of espionage", "text": "History of espionage\n\nSpying, as well as other intelligence assessment, has existed since ancient times. In the 1980s scholars characterized foreign intelligence as \"the missing dimension\" of historical scholarship. Since then a large popular and scholarly literature has emerged. Special attention has been paid to World War II, as well as the Cold War era (1947-1989) that was a favorite for novelists and film makers.\n\nEfforts to use espionage for military advantage are well documented throughout history. Sun Tzu, a theorist in ancient China who influenced Asian military thinking, still has an audience in the 21st century for the \"Art of War.\" He advised, \"One who knows the enemy and knows himself will not be endangered in a hundred engagements.\" He stressed the need to understand yourself and your enemy for military intelligence. He identified different spy roles. In modern terms they included the secret informant or agent in place, (who provides copies of enemy secrets), the penetration agent who has access to the enemy's commanders, and the disinformation agent who feeds a mix of true and false details to point the enemy in the wrong direction, to confuse the enemy). He considered the need for systematic organization, and noted the roles of counterintelligence, double agents (recruited from the ranks of enemy spies) and psychological warfare. Sun Tzu continued to influence Chinese espionage theory in the 21st century with its emphasis on using information to design active subversion.\n\nChanakya (also called Kautilya) wrote his \"Arthashastra\" in India in the 4th century BC. It was a ‘Textbook of Statecraft and Political Economy’ that provides a detailed account of intelligence collection, processing, consumption, and covert operations, as indispensable means for maintaining and expanding the security and power of the state.\n\nAncient Egypt had a thoroughly developed system for the acquisition of intelligence, and the Hebrews used spies as well, as in the story of Rahab. Spies were also prevalent in the Greek and Roman empires. During the 13th and 14th centuries, the Mongols relied heavily on espionage in their conquests in Asia and Europe. Feudal Japan often used ninjas to gather intelligence.\n\nA significant milestone was the establishment of an effective intelligence service under King David IV of Georgia at the beginning of 12th century or possibly even earlier. Called \"mstovaris\", these organized spies performed crucial tasks, like uncovering feudal conspiracies, conducting counter-intelligence against enemy spies, and infiltrating key locations, e.g. castles, fortresses and palaces.\n\nAztecs used Pochtecas, people in charge of commerce, as spies and diplomats, and had diplomatic immunity. Along with the pochteca, before a battle or war, secret agents, \"quimitchin\", were sent to spy amongst enemies usually wearing the local costume and speaking the local language, techniques similar to modern secret agents.\n\nMany modern espionage methods were established by Francis Walsingham in Elizabethan England. His staff included the cryptographer Thomas Phelippes, who was an expert in deciphering letters and forgery, and Arthur Gregory, who was skilled at breaking and repairing seals without detection.\n\nIn 1585, Mary, Queen of Scots was placed in the custody of Sir Amias Paulet, who was instructed to open and read all of Mary's clandestine correspondence. In a successful attempt to expose her, Walsingham arranged a single exception: a covert means for Mary's letters to be smuggled in and out of Chartley in a beer keg. Mary was misled into thinking these secret letters were secure, while in reality they were deciphered and read by Walsingham's agents. He succeeded in intercepting letters that indicated a conspiracy to displace Elizabeth I with Mary, Queen of Scots. In foreign intelligence, Walsingham's extensive network of \"intelligencers\", who passed on general news as well as secrets, spanned Europe and the Mediterranean. While foreign intelligence was a normal part of the principal secretary's activities, Walsingham brought to it flair and ambition, and large sums of his own money. He cast his net more widely than anyone had attempted, exploiting links across the continent as well as in Constantinople and Algiers, and building and inserting contacts among Catholic exiles.\n\nThe 18th century saw a dramatic expansion of espionage activities. It was a time of war: in nine years out of 10, two or more major powers were at war. Armies grew much larger, with corresponding budgets. Likewise the foreign ministries all grew in size and complexity. National budgets expanded to pay for these expansions, and room was found for intelligence departments with full-time staffs, and well-paid spies and agents. The militaries themselves became more bureaucratised, and sent out military attaches. They were very bright, personable middle-ranking officers stationed in embassies abroad. In each capital, the attached days evaluated the strength, capabilities, and war plan plans of the armies and navies. France under King Louis XIV was the largest, richest, and most powerful nation. It had many enemies and a few friends, and tried to keep track of them all through a well organized intelligence system. France and England pioneered the cabinet noir whereby foreign correspondence was opened and deciphered, then forwarded to the recipient. France's chief ministers, especially Cardinal Mazarin (1642–1661) did not invent the new methods; they combined the best practices from other states, and supported it at the highest political and financial levels.\n\nDuring the American Revolution, 1775-1783, American General George Washington developed a successful espionage system to detect British locations and plans. In 1778, he ordered Major Benjamin Tallmadge to form the Culper Ring to collect information about the British in New York. Washington was usually mindful of treachery, but he ignored incidents of disloyalty by Benedict Arnold, his most trusted general. Arnold tried to betray West Point to the British Army, but was discovered and barely managed to escape. The British intelligence system was weak—it completely missed the movement of the entire American and French armies from the Northeast to Yorktown, Virginia, where they captured the British invasion army in 1781 and won independence. Washington has been called \"Americas First Spymaster\".\n\nBritain, almost continuously at war with France 1793-1815, built a wide network of agents and funded local elements trying to overthrow governments hostile to Britain. It paid special attention to threats of an invasion of the home islands, and to a possible uprising in Ireland. Britain in 1794 appointed William Wickham as Superintendent of Aliens in charge of espionage and the new secret service. He strengthened the British intelligence system by emphasizing the centrality of the intelligence cycle - query, collection, collation, analysis and dissemination - and the need for an all-source centre of intelligence.\n\nNapoleon made heavy use of agents, especially regarding Russia. Besides espionage, they recruited soldiers, collected money, enforced the Continental System against imports from Britain, propagandized, policed border entry into France through passports, and protected the estates of the Napoleonic nobility. His senior men coordinated the policies of satellite countries.\n\nModern tactics of espionage and dedicated government intelligence agencies were developed over the course of the late 19th century. A key background to this development was the Great Game, a period denoting the strategic rivalry and conflict that existed between the British Empire and the Russian Empire throughout Central Asia. To counter Russian ambitions in the region and the potential threat it posed to the British position in India, a system of surveillance, intelligence and counterintelligence was built up in the Indian Civil Service. The existence of this shadowy conflict was popularised in Rudyard Kipling's famous spy book, \"Kim\", where he portrayed the Great Game (a phrase he popularised) as an espionage and intelligence conflict that 'never ceases, day or night'.\n\nAlthough the techniques originally used were distinctly amateurish – British agents would often pose unconvincingly as botanists or archaeologists – more professional tactics and systems were slowly put in place. In many respects, it was here that a modern intelligence apparatus with permanent bureaucracies for internal and foreign infiltration and espionage was first developed. A pioneering cryptographic unit was established as early as 1844 in India, which achieved some important successes in decrypting Russian communications in the area.\n\nThe establishment of dedicated intelligence organizations was directly linked to the colonial rivalries between the major European powers and the accelerating development of military technology.\n\nAn early source of military intelligence was the diplomatic system of military attachés (an officer attached to the diplomatic service operating through the embassy in a foreign country), that became widespread in Europe after the Crimean War. Although officially restricted to a role of transmitting openly received information, they were soon being used to clandestinely gather confidential information and in some cases even to recruit spies and to operate de facto spy rings.\n\nTactical or battlefield intelligence became very vital to both armies in the field during the American Civil War. Allan Pinkerton, Who operated a pioneer Detective agency, served as head of the Union Intelligence Service during the first two years. He thwarted the assassination plot in Baltimore while guarding President-elect Abraham Lincoln. Pinkerton agents often worked undercover as Confederate soldiers and sympathizers to gather military intelligence. Pinkerton himself served on several undercover missions. He worked across the Deep South in the summer of 1861, collecting information on fortifications and Confederate plans. He was found out in Memphis and barely escaped with his life. Pinkerton's agency specialized in counter-espionage, identifying Confederate spies in the Washington area. Pinkerton played up to the demands of General George McClellan with exaggerated overestimates of the strength of Confederate forces in Virginia. McClellan mistakenly thought he was outnumbered, and played a very cautious role. Spies and scouts typically reported directly to the commanders of armies in the field. They provided details on troop movements and strengths. The distinction between spies and scouts was one that had life or death consequences. If a suspect was seized while in disguise and not in his army's uniform, the sentence was often to be hanged.\n\nIntelligence gathering for the Confederates focused on Alexandria, Virginia, and the surrounding area. Thomas Jordan created a network of agents that included Rose O'Neal Greenhow. Greenhow delivered reports to Jordan via the “Secret Line,” the system used to smuggle letters, intelligence reports, and other documents to Confederate officials. The Confederacy's Signal Corps was devoted primarily to communications and intercepts, but it also included a covert agency called the Confederate Secret Service Bureau, which ran espionage and counter-espionage operations in the North including two networks in Washington.\n\nIn both armies, the cavalry service was the main instrument in military intelligence, using direct observation, Drafting map, and obtaining copies of local maps and local newspapers. When General Robert E Lee invaded the North in June 1863, his cavalry commander J. E. B. Stuart went on a long unauthorized raid, so Lee was operating blind, unaware that he was being trapped by Union forces. Lee later said that his Gettysburg campaign, \"was commenced in the absence of correct intelligence. It was continued in the effort to overcome the difficulties by which we were surrounded.\"\n\nShaken by the revolutionary years 1848–1849, the Austrian Empire founded the Evidenzbureau in 1850 as the first permanent military intelligence service. It was first used in the 1859 Austro-Sardinian war and the 1866 campaign against Prussia, albeit with little success. The bureau collected intelligence of military relevance from various sources into daily reports to the Chief of Staff \"(Generalstabschef)\" and weekly reports to Emperor Franz Joseph. Sections of the Evidenzbureau were assigned different regions, the most important one was aimed against Russia.\n\nDuring the Crimean War of 1854, the Topographical & Statistic Department T&SD was established within the British War Office as an embryonic military intelligence organization. The department initially focused on the accurate mapmaking of strategically sensitive locations and the collation of militarily relevant statistics. After the deficiencies in the British army's performance during the war became known a large-scale reform of army institutions was overseen by the Edward Cardwell. As part of this, the T&SD was reorganized as the Intelligence Branch of the War Office in 1873 with the mission to \"collect and classify all possible information relating to the strength, organization etc. of foreign armies... to keep themselves acquainted with the progress made by foreign countries in military art and science...\"\n\nThe French Ministry of War authorized the creation of the Deuxième Bureau on June 8, 1871, a service charged with performing \"research on enemy plans and operations.\" This was followed a year later by the creation of a military counter-espionage service. It was this latter service that was discredited through its actions over the notorious Dreyfus Affair, where a French Jewish officer was falsely accused of handing over military secrets to the Germans. As a result of the political division that ensued, responsibility for counter-espionage was moved to the civilian control of the Ministry of the Interior.\n\nField Marshal Helmuth von Moltke established a military intelligence unit, Abteilung (Section) IIIb, to the German General Staff in 1889 which steadily expanded its operations into France and Russia.\n\nThe Italian Ufficio Informazioni del Commando Supremo was put on a permanent footing in 1900.\n\nAfter Russia's defeat in the Russo-Japanese War of 1904–05, Russian military intelligence was reorganized under the 7th Section of the 2nd Executive Board of the great imperial headquarters.\n\nIt was not just the army that felt a need for military intelligence. Soon, naval establishments were demanding similar capabilities from their national governments to allow them to keep abreast of technological and strategic developments in rival countries.\n\nThe Naval Intelligence Division was set up as the independent intelligence arm of the British Admiralty in 1882 (initially as the Foreign Intelligence Committee) and was headed by Captain William Henry Hall. The division was initially responsible for fleet mobilization and war plans as well as foreign intelligence collection; in the 1900s two further responsibilities – issues of strategy and defence and the protection of merchant shipping – were added.\n\nIn the United States the Naval intelligence originated in 1882 \"for the purpose of collecting and recording such naval information as may be useful to the Department in time of war, as well as in peace.\" This was followed in October 1885 by the Military Information Division, the first standing military intelligence agency of the United States with the duty of collecting military data on foreign nations.\n\nIn 1900, the Imperial German Navy established the Nachrichten-Abteilung, which was devoted to gathering intelligence on Britain. The navies of Italy, Russia and Austria-Hungary set up similar services as well.\n\nAs espionage became more widely used, it became imperative to expand the role of existing police and internal security forces into a role of detecting and countering foreign spies. The Austro-Hungarian Evidenzbureau was entrusted with the role from the late 19th century to counter the actions of the Pan-Slavist movement operating out of Serbia.\n\nRussia's Okhrana was formed in 1880 to combat political terrorism and left-wing revolutionary activity throughout the Russian Empire, but was also tasked with countering enemy espionage. Its main concern was the activities of revolutionaries, who often worked and plotted subversive actions from abroad. It created an antenna in Paris run by Pyotr Rachkovsky to monitor their activities. The agency used many methods to achieve its goals, including covert operations, undercover agents, and \"perlustration\" — the interception and reading of private correspondence. The Okhrana became notorious for its use of agents provocateurs who often succeeded in penetrating the activities of revolutionary groups including the Bolsheviks.\n\nIn the 1890s Alfred Dreyfus, a Jewish artillery captain in the French army, was twice falsely convicted of passing military secrets to the Germans. The case convulsed France regarding antisemitism, and xenophobia for a decade until he was fully exonerated. It raised public awareness of the rapidly developing world of espionage. Responsibility for military counter-espionage was passed in 1899 to the Sûreté générale – an agency originally responsible for order enforcement and public safety – and overseen by the Ministry of the Interior.\n\nIn Britain the Second Boer War (1899-1902) saw a difficult and highly controversial victory over hard-fighting whites in South Africa. One response was to build up counterinsurgency policies. After that came the \"Edwardian Spy-Fever\"—with rumours of German spies under every bed.\n\nIn Britain, the Secret Service Bureau was split into a foreign and counter intelligence domestic service in 1910. The latter was headed by Sir Vernon Kell and was originally aimed at calming public fears of large scale German espionage. As the Service was not authorized with police powers, Kell liaised extensively with the Special Branch of Scotland Yard (headed by Basil Thomson), and succeeded in disrupting the work of Indian revolutionaries collaborating with the Germans during the war.\n\nIntegrated intelligence agencies run directly by governments were also established. The British Secret Service Bureau was founded in 1909 as the first independent and interdepartmental agency fully in control over all government espionage activities.\nAt a time of widespread and growing anti-German feeling and fear, plans were drawn up for an extensive offensive intelligence system to be used as an instrument in the event of a European war. Due to intense lobbying by William Melville after he obtained German mobilization plans and proof of their financial support to the Boers, the government authorized the creation of a new intelligence section in the War Office, MO3 (subsequently redesignated M05) headed by Melville, in 1903. Working under cover from a flat in London, Melville ran both counterintelligence and foreign intelligence operations, capitalizing on the knowledge and foreign contacts he had accumulated during his years running Special Branch.\n\nDue to its success, the Government Committee on Intelligence, with support from Richard Haldane and Winston Churchill, established the Secret Service Bureau in 1909. It consisted of nineteen military intelligence departments – MI1 to MI19, but MI5 and MI6 came to be the most recognized as they are the only ones to have remained active to this day.\n\nThe Bureau was a joint initiative of the Admiralty, the War Office and the Foreign Office to control secret intelligence operations in the UK and overseas, particularly concentrating on the activities of the Imperial German Government. Its first director was Captain Sir George Mansfield Smith-Cumming. In 1910, the bureau was split into naval and army sections which, over time, specialised in foreign espionage and internal counter-espionage activities respectively. The Secret Service initially focused its resources on gathering intelligence on German shipbuilding plans and operations. Espionage activity in France was consciously refrained from, so as not to jeopardize the burgeoning alliance between the two nations.\n\nFor the first time, the government had access to a peace-time, centralized independent intelligence bureaucracy with indexed registries and defined procedures, as opposed to the more ad hoc methods used previously. Instead of a system whereby rival departments and military services would work on their own priorities with little to no consultation or co-operation with each other, the newly established Secret Intelligence Service was interdepartmental, and submitted its intelligence reports to all relevant government departments.\n\nBy the outbreak of the First World War in 1914 all the major powers had highly sophisticated structures in place for the training and handling of spies and for the processing of the intelligence information obtained through espionage. The figure and mystique of the spy had also developed considerably in the public eye. The Dreyfus Affair, which involved international espionage and treason, contributed much to public interest in espionage from 1894 onwards.\n\nThe \"spy novel\" emerged as a distinct genre of fiction in the late 19th century; it dealt with themes such as colonial rivalry, the growing threat of conflict in Europe and the revolutionary and anarchist domestic threat. The \"spy novel\" was defined by \"The Riddle of the Sands\" (1903) by author Erskine Childers, which played on public fears of a German plan to invade Britain (an amateur spy uncovers the nefarious plot). In the wake of Childers's success there followed a flood of imitators, including William Le Queux and E. Phillips Oppenheim.\n\nThe first World War (1914–1918) saw the honing and refinement of modern espionage techniques as all the belligerent powers utilized their intelligence services to obtain military intelligence, to commit acts of sabotage and to carry out propaganda. As the progress of the war became static and armies dug down in trenches, the utility of cavalry reconnaissance became of very limited effectiveness.\n\nInformation gathered at the battlefront from the interrogation of prisoners-of-war typically could give insight only into local enemy actions of limited duration. To obtain high-level information on an enemy's strategic intentions, its military capabilities and deployment required undercover spy rings operating deep in enemy territory. On the Western Front the advantage lay with the Western Allies, as for most of the war German armies occupied Belgium and parts of northern France amidst a large and disaffected native population that could be organized into collecting and transmitting vital intelligence.\n\nBritish and French intelligence services recruited Belgian or French refugees and infiltrated these agents behind enemy lines via the Netherlands – a neutral country. Many collaborators were then recruited from the local population, who were mainly driven by patriotism and hatred of the harsh German occupation. By the end of the war the Allies had set up over 250 networks, comprising more than 6,400 Belgian and French citizens. These rings concentrated on infiltrating the German railway network so that the Allies could receive advance warning of strategic troop and ammunition movements.\nIn 1916 Walthère Dewé founded the Dame Blanche (\"White Lady\") network as an underground intelligence group，which became the most effective Allied spy ring in German-occupied Belgium. It supplied as much as 75% of the intelligence collected from occupied Belgium and northern France to the Allies. By the end of the war, its 1,300 agents covered all of occupied Belgium, northern France and, through a collaboration with Louise de Bettignies' network, occupied Luxembourg. The network was able to provide a crucial few days warning before the launch of the German 1918 Spring Offensive.\n\nGerman intelligence was only ever able to recruit a very small number of spies. These were trained at an academy run by the Kriegsnachrichtenstelle in Antwerp and headed by Elsbeth Schragmüller, known as \"Fräulein Doktor\". These agents were generally isolated and unable to rely on a large support network for the relaying of information. The most famous German spy was Margaretha Geertruida Zelle, a Dutch exotic dancer with the stage name Mata Hari. As a Dutch subject, she was able to cross national borders freely. In 1916, she was arrested and brought to London where she was interrogated at length by Sir Basil Thomson, Assistant Commissioner at New Scotland Yard. She eventually claimed to be working for French intelligence. In fact, she had entered German service from 1915, and sent her reports to the mission in the German embassy in Madrid. In January 1917, the German military attaché in Madrid transmitted radio messages to Berlin describing the helpful activities of a German spy code-named H-21. French intelligence agents intercepted the messages and, from the information it contained, identified H-21 as Mata Hari. She was executed by firing squad on 15 October 1917.\n\nGerman spies in Britain did not meet with much success – the German spy ring operating in Britain was successfully disrupted by MI5 under Vernon Kell on the day after the declaration of the war. Home Secretary, Reginald McKenna, announced that \"within the last twenty-four hours no fewer than twenty-one spies, or suspected spies, have been arrested in various places all over the country, chiefly in important military or naval centres, some of them long known to the authorities to be spies\",\n\nOne exception was Jules C. Silber, who evaded MI5 investigations and obtained a position at the censor's office in 1914. Using mailed window envelopes that had already been stamped and cleared he was able to forward microfilm to Germany that contained increasingly important information. Silber was regularly promoted and ended up in the position of chief censor, which enabled him to analyze all suspect documents.\n\nThe British economic blockade of Germany was made effective through the support of spy networks operating out of neutral Netherlands. Points of weakness in the naval blockade were determined by agents on the ground and relayed back to the Royal Navy. The blockade led to severe food deprivation in Germany and was a major cause in the collapse of the Central Powers war effort in 1918.\n\nTwo new methods for intelligence collection were developed over the course of the war – aerial reconnaissance and photography and the interception and decryption of radio signals. The British rapidly built up great expertise in the newly emerging field of signals intelligence and codebreaking.\n\nIn 1911, a subcommittee of the Committee of Imperial Defence on cable communications concluded that in the event of war with Germany, German-owned submarine cables should be destroyed. On the night of 3 August 1914, the cable ship \"Alert\" located and cut Germany's five trans-Atlantic cables, which ran under the English Channel. Soon after, the six cables running between Britain and Germany were cut. As an immediate consequence, there was a significant increase in messages sent via cables belonging to other countries, and by radio. These could now be intercepted, but codes and ciphers were naturally used to hide the meaning of the messages, and neither Britain nor Germany had any established organisations to decode and interpret the messages. At the start of the war, the navy had only one wireless station for intercepting messages, at Stockton. However, installations belonging to the Post Office and the Marconi Company, as well as private individuals who had access to radio equipment, began recording messages from Germany.\n\nRoom 40, under Director of Naval Education Alfred Ewing, formed in October 1914, was the section in the British Admiralty most identified with the British crypto analysis effort during the war. The basis of Room 40 operations evolved around a German naval codebook, the \"Signalbuch der Kaiserlichen Marine\" (SKM), and around maps (containing coded squares), which were obtained from three different sources in the early months of the war. Alfred Ewing directed Room 40 until May 1917, when direct control passed to Captain (later Admiral) Reginald 'Blinker' Hall, assisted by William Milbourne James.\n\nA similar organization began in the Military Intelligence department of the War Office, which become known as MI1b, and Colonel Macdonagh proposed that the two organizations should work together, decoding messages concerning the Western Front in France. A sophisticated interception system (known as 'Y' service), together with the post office and Marconi receiving stations grew rapidly to the point it could intercept almost all official German messages.\n\nAs the number of intercepted messages increased it became necessary to decide which were unimportant and should just be logged, and which should be passed on to Room 40. The German fleet was in the habit each day of wirelessing the exact position of each ship and giving regular position reports when at sea. It was possible to build up a precise picture of the normal operation of the High Seas Fleet, indeed to infer from the routes they chose where defensive minefields had been placed and where it was safe for ships to operate. Whenever a change to the normal pattern was seen, it immediately signalled that some operation was about to take place and a warning could be given. Detailed information about submarine movements was also available.\n\nBoth the British and German interception services began to experiment with direction finding radio equipment at the start of 1915. Captain H. J. Round working for Marconi had been carrying out experiments for the army in France and Hall instructed him to build a direction finding system for the navy. Stations were built along the coast, and by May 1915 the Admiralty was able to track German submarines crossing the North Sea. Some of these stations also acted as 'Y' stations to collect German messages, but a new section was created within Room 40 to plot the positions of ships from the directional reports. No attempts were made by the German fleet to restrict its use of wireless until 1917, and then only in response to perceived British use of direction finding, not because it believed messages were being decoded.\n\nRoom 40 played an important role in several naval engagements during the war, notably in detecting major German sorties into the North Sea that led to the battles of Dogger Bank and Jutland when the British fleet was sent out to intercept them. However its most important contribution was probably in decrypting the Zimmermann Telegram, a telegram from the German Foreign Office sent via Washington to its ambassador Heinrich von Eckardt in Mexico.\n\nIn the Telegram's plain text, Nigel de Grey and William Montgomery learned of the German Foreign Minister Arthur Zimmermann's offer to Mexico to join the war as a German ally. The telegram was made public by the United States, which declared war on Germany on 6 April 1917. This event demonstrated how the course of a war could be changed by effective intelligence operations.\n\nThe British were reading the Americans' secret messages by late 1915.\n\nThe outbreak of revolution in Russia and the subsequent seizure of power by the Bolsheviks, a party deeply hostile towards the capitalist powers, was an important catalyst for the development of modern international espionage techniques. A key figure was Sidney Reilly, a Russian-born adventurer and secret agent employed by Scotland Yard and the Secret Intelligence Service. He set the standard for modern espionage, turning it from a gentleman's amateurish game to a ruthless and professional methodology for the achievement of military and political ends. Reilly's career culminated in an failed attempt to depose the Bolshevik Government and assassinate Vladimir Ilyich Lenin.\n\nAnother pivotal figure was Sir Paul Dukes, arguably the first professional spy of the modern age. Recruited personally by Mansfield Smith-Cumming to act as a secret agent in Imperial Russia, he set up elaborate plans to help prominent White Russians escape from Soviet prisons after the Revolution and smuggled hundreds of them into Finland. Known as the \"Man of a Hundred Faces,\" Dukes continued his use of disguises, which aided him in assuming a number of identities and gained him access to numerous Bolshevik organizations. He successfully infiltrated the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, the Comintern, and the political police, or CHEKA. Dukes also learned of the inner workings of the Politburo, and passed the information to British intelligence.\n\nIn the course of a few months, Dukes, Hill, and Reilly succeeded in infiltrating Lenin's inner circle, and gaining access to the activities of the Cheka and the Communist International at the highest level. This helped to convince the government of the importance of a well-funded secret intelligence service in peace time as a key component in formulating foreign policy. Churchill argued that intercepted communications were more useful \"as a means of forming a true judgment of public policy than any other source of knowledge at the disposal of the State.\"\n\nThe intelligence gathering efforts of Nazi Germany were largely ineffective. Berlin operated two espionage networks against the United States. Both suffered from careless recruiting, inadequate planning, and faulty execution. The FBI captured bungling spies, while poorly designed sabotage efforts all failed. Hitler's prejudices about Jewish control of the U.S. interfered with objective evaluation of American capabilities. His propaganda chief Joseph Goebbels deceived top officials who repeated his propagandistic exaggerations.\n\nChurchill's order to \"set Europe ablaze,\" was undertaken by the British Secret Service or Secret Intelligence Service, who developed a plan to train spies and saboteurs. Eventually, this would become the SOE or Special Operations Executive, and to ultimately involve the United States in their training facilities. Sir William Stephenson, the senior British intelligence officer in the western hemisphere, suggested to President Roosevelt that William J. Donovan devise a plan for an intelligence network modeled after the British Secret Intelligence Service or MI6 and Special Operations Executive's (SOE) framework. Accordingly, the first American Office of Strategic Services (OSS) agents in Canada were sent for training in a facility set up by Stephenson, with guidance from English intelligence instructors, who provided the OSS trainees with the knowledge needed to come back and train other OSS agents. Setting German-occupied Europe ablaze with sabotage and partisan resistance groups was the mission. Through covert special operations teams, operating under the new Special Operations Executive (SOE) and the OSS' Special Operations teams, these men would be infiltrated into occupied countries to help organize local resistance groups and supply them with logistical support: weapons, clothing, food, money, and direct them in attacks against the Axis powers. Through subversion, sabotage, and the direction of local guerrilla forces, SOE British agents and OSS teams had the mission of infiltrating behind enemy lines and wreaked havoc on the German infrastructure, so much, that an untold number of men were required to keep this in check, and kept the Germans off balance continuously like the French maquis. They actively resisted the German occupation of France, as did the Greek People's Liberation Army (ELAS) partisans who were armed and fed by both the OSS and SOE during the German occupation of Greece.\n\n\"Magic\" was an American cryptanalysis project focused on Japanese codes in the 1930s and 1940s. It involved the U.S. Army's Signals Intelligence Service (SIS) and the U.S. Navy's Communication Special Unit. Magic combined cryptologic capabilities into the Research Bureau with Army, Navy and civilian experts all under one roof. Their most important successes involved RED, BLUE, and PURPLE.<eref>Ronald Lewin, \"The American Magic: Codes, Ciphers and the Defeat of Japan\" (1982).</ref>\n\nIn 1923, a US Navy officer acquired a stolen copy of the Secret Operating Code codebook used by the Japanese Navy during World War I. Photographs of the codebook were given to the cryptanalysts at the Research Desk and the processed code was kept in red-colored folders (to indicate its Top Secret classification). This code was called \"RED\". In 1930, Japan created a more complex code that was codenamed BLUE, although RED was still being used for low-level communications. It was quickly broken by the Research Desk no later than 1932. US Military Intelligence COMINT listening stations began monitoring command-to-fleet, ship-to-ship, and land-based communications for BLUE messages. After Germany declared war in 1939, it sent technical assistance to upgrade Japanese communications and cryptography capabilities. One part was to send them modified Enigma machines to secure Japan's high-level communications with Germany. The new code, codenamed PURPLE (from the color obtained by mixing red and blue), baffled the codebreakers until they realized that it was not a manual additive or substitution code like RED and BLUE, but a machine-generated code similar to Germany's Enigma cipher. Decoding was slow and much of the traffic was still hard to break. By the time the traffic was decoded and translated, the contents were often out of date. A reverse-engineered machine could figure out some of the PURPLE code by replicating some of the settings of the Japanese Enigma machines. This sped up decoding and the addition of more translators on staff in 1942 made it easier and quicker to decipher the traffic intercepted. The Japanese Foreign Office used a cipher machine to encrypt its diplomatic messages. The machine was called \"PURPLE\" by U.S. cryptographers. A message was typed into the machine, which enciphered and sent it to an identical machine. The receiving machine could decipher the message only if set to the correct settings, or keys. American cryptographers built a machine that could decrypt these messages. The PURPLE machine itself was first used by Japan in 1940. U.S. and British cryptographers had broken some PURPLE traffic well before the attack on Pearl Harbor in December 1941, but the Japanese diplomats did not know or transmit any details. . The Japanese Navy used a completely different system, known as JN-25.\n\nU.S. cryptographers had decrypted and translated the 14-part Japanese PURPLE message breaking off ongoing negotiations with the U.S. at 1 p.m. Washington time on 7 December 1941, even before the Japanese Embassy in Washington could do so. As a result of the deciphering and typing difficulties at the embassy, the note was formally delivered after the attack began.\n\nThroughout the war, the Allies routinely read both German and Japanese cryptography. The Japanese Ambassador to Germany, General Hiroshi Ōshima, routinely sent priceless information about German plans to Tokyo. This information was routinely intercepted and read by Roosevelt, Churchill and Eisenhower. Japanese diplomats assumed their PURPLE system was unbreakable and did not revise or replace it.\n\nPresident Franklin Roosevelt was obsessed with intelligence and Deeply worried about German sabotage. However, there was no overarching American intelligence agency, and Roosevelt left the Army, the Navy, the State Department, and various other sources compete against each other, so that all the information poured into the White House, but was not systematically shared with other agencies. The British Roosevelt's fascination early on, and that him intelligence designed to bolster the British patient, such as false claims of the Germans had designs on taking over Latin America. Roosevelt followed MAGIC intercept Japan religiously, but set it up so that the Army and Navy briefed him on alternating days. Finally he turned to William (Wild Bill) Donovan to run a new agency the Office of the Coordinator of Information (COI) which in 1942 became the Office of Strategic Services or OSS. It became Roosevelt's most trusted source of secrets, and after the war OSS eventually became the CIA. The COI had a staff of 2,300 in June 1942; OSS reached 5,000 personnel by September 1943. In all 35,000 men and women served in the OSS by the time it closed in 1947.\n\nThe Army and Navy were proud of their long-established intelligence services and avoided the OSS as much as possible, banning it from the Pacific theaters. The Army tried and failed to prevent OSS operations in China.\n\nAn agreement with Britain in 1942 divided responsibilities, with SOE taking the lead for most of Europe, including the Balkans and OSS took primary responsibility for China and North Africa. OSS experts and spies were trained at facilities in the United States and around the world. The military arm of the OSS, was the Operational Group Command (OGC), which operated sabotage missions in in the European and Mediterranean theaters, with a special focus on Italy and the Balkans. OSS was a rival force with SOE in Italy in aiding and directing anti-Nazi resistance groups.\n\nThe \"Research and Analysis\" branch of OSS brought together numerous academics and experts who proved especially useful in providing a highly detailed overview of the strengths and weaknesses of the German war effort. In direct operations it was successful in supporting Operation Torch in French North Africa in 1942, where it identified pro-Allied potential supporters and located landing sites. OSS operations in neutral countries, especially Stockholm, Sweden, provided in-depth information on German advanced technology. The Madrid station set up agent networks in France that supported the Allied invasion of southern France in 1944. Most famous were the operations in Switzerland run by Allen Dulles that provided extensive information on German strength, air defenses, submarine production, and the V-1 and V-2 weapons. It revealed some of the secret German efforts in chemical and biological warfare. Switzerland's station also supported resistance fighters in France and Italy, and helped with the surrender of German forces in Italy in 1945.\n\nInformants were common in World War II. In November 1939, the German Hans Ferdinand Mayer sent what is called the Oslo Report to inform the British of German technology and projects in an effort to undermine the Nazi regime. The Réseau AGIR was a French network developed after the fall of France that reported the start of construction of V-weapon installations in Occupied France to the British.\n\nThe MI5 in Britain and the FBI in the U.S. identified all the German spies, and \"turned\" all but one into double agents so that their reports to Berlin were actually rewritten by counterespionage teams. The FBI had the chief role in American counterespionage and rounded up all the German spies in June 1941. Counterespionage included the use of turned Double Cross agents to misinform Nazi Germany of impact points during the Blitz and internment of Japanese in the US against \"Japan's wartime spy program\". Additional WWII espionage examples include Soviet spying on the US Manhattan project, the German Duquesne Spy Ring convicted in the US, and the Soviet Red Orchestra spying on Nazi Germany. \nAfter 1990s new memoirs and archival materials have opened up the study of espionage and intelligence during the Cold War. Scholars are reviewing how its origins, its course, and its outcome were shaped by the intelligence activities of the United States, the Soviet Union, and other key countries. Special attention is paid to how complex images of one's adversaries were shaped by secret intelligence that is now publicly known.\n\nThe Soviet Union proved especially successful in placing spies in Britain and West Germany. It was largely unable to repeat its successes in the 1930s in the United States. NATO, on the other hand, also had a few successes of importance, of whom Oleg Gordievsky was perhaps the most influential. He was a senior KGB officer who was a double agent on behalf of Britain's MI6, providing a stream of high-grade intelligence that had an important influence on the thinking of Margaret Thatcher and Ronald Reagan in the 1980s. He was spotted by Aldrich Ames a Soviet agent who worked for the CIA, but he was successfully exfiltrated from Moscow in 1985. Biographer Ben McIntyre argues he was the West's most valuable human asset, especially for his deep psychological insights into the inner circles of the Kremlin. He convinced Washington and London that the fierceness and bellicosity of the Kremlin was a product of fear, and military weakness, rather than an urge for world conquest. Thatcher and Reagan concluded they could moderate their own anti-Soviet rhetoric, as successfully happened when Mikhail Gorbachev took power, thus ending the Cold War.\n\nIn the United States, there are seventeen (taking military intelligence into consideration, it's 22 agencies) federal agencies that form the United States Intelligence Community. The Central Intelligence Agency operates the National Clandestine Service (NCS) to collect human intelligence and perform Covert operations. The National Security Agency collects Signals Intelligence. Originally the CIA spearheaded the US-IC. Pursuant to the September 11 attacks the Office of the Director of National Intelligence (ODNI) was created to promulgate information-sharing.\n\nSince the 19th century new approaches have included professional police organizations, the police state and geopolitics. New intelligence methods have emerged, most recently imagery intelligence, signals intelligence, cryptanalysis and spy satellites.\n\nThe most dramatic failure of intelligence in this era was the false discovery of weapons of mass destruction in Iraq in 2003. American and British intelligence agencies agreed on balance that the WMD were being built and would threaten the peace. They launched a full-scale an invasion that overthrew the Iraqi government of Saddam Hussein. The result was decades of turmoil and large-scale violence. There were in fact no weapons of mass destruction, but the Iraqi government had pretended they existed so that it could deter the sort of attack that in fact resulted.\n\nIn Israel, the Shin Bet unit is the agency for homeland security and counter intelligence. The department for secret and confidential counter terrorist operations is called Kidon. It is part of the national intelligence agency Mossad and can also operate in other capacities. Kidon was described as \"an elite group of expert assassins who operate under the Caesarea branch of the espionage organization.\" The unit only recruits from \"former soldiers from the elite IDF special force units.\" There is almost no reliable information available on this ultra-secret organisation.\n\n\n\nSpying has sometimes been considered a gentlemanly pursuit, with recruiting focused on military officers, or at least on persons of the class from whom officers are recruited. However, the demand for male soldiers, an increase in women's rights, and the tactical advantages of female spies led the British Special Operations Executive (SOE) to set aside any lingering Victorian Era prejudices and begin employing them in April 1942. Their task was to transmit information from Nazi occupied France back to Allied Forces. The main strategic reason was that men in France faced a high risk of being interrogated by Nazi troops but women were less likely to arouse suspicion. In this way they made good couriers and proved equal to, if not more effective than, their male counterparts. Their participation in Organization and Radio Operation was also vital to the success of many operations, including the main network between Paris and London.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39760462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39760462", "title": "Houston Shakespeare Festival", "text": "Houston Shakespeare Festival\n\nThe Houston Shakespeare Festival (HSF) is a regional repertory theatre in Houston, Texas, United States. Each summer, the Houston Shakespeare Festival produces a season of two Shakespeare plays in repertory. Since its inception in 1975, HSF has entertained nearly a half million theatergoers with free performances in Hermann Park's Miller Outdoor Theatre. The Houston Shakespeare Festival has since become one of the major events on Houston's summer entertainment calendar. HSF is a recognized Actors' Equity Association theatre.\n\nIn the summer of 1975, Dr. Sidney Berger, the then Director of the University of Houston's School of Theatre and Dance, met with the college's administrators and the Miller Outdoor Theatre Advisory Council to enlist support for a two-production season of Shakespeare's works to be played in repertory on Miller Theatre's bill.\n\nThe first year was met with acclaim, with audience size exceeding projections and local citizens writing letter of support to the University of Houston. As years have passed, HSF's budget has increased. The University of Houston provides access to its scenery workshops, office rooms, a rehearsal area and more. In 1989, The Cullen Trust for the Performing Arts gifted an endowment for HSF to enter a seasonal agreement with Actors' Equity Association.\n\n'<br>Dr. Robert Shimko (2016- )\n"}
{"id": "4591548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4591548", "title": "Insurgency in Balochistan", "text": "Insurgency in Balochistan\n\nThe insurgency in Balochistan is a guerrilla war waged by Baloch nationalists against the governments of Pakistan and Iran in the Balochistan region, which covers Balochistan Province in southwestern Pakistan, Sistan and Baluchestan Province in southeastern Iran, and the Balochistan region of southern Afghanistan. Rich in natural resources like natural gas, oil, coal, copper, sulphur, fluoride and gold, this is the least developed province in Pakistan. Armed groups demand greater control of the province's natural resources and political autonomy. Baloch separatists have attacked civilians from other ethnicities in the province. In the 2010s, attacks against the Shia community by sectarian groups—though not always directly related to the political struggle—have risen, contributing to tensions in Balochistan.\n\nIn Pakistan's Balochistan province, insurgencies by Baloch nationalists have been fought in 1948, 1958–59, 1962–63 and 1973–77, with an ongoing and reportedly stronger, broader insurgency beginning in 2003.\n\nThis insurgency has begun to weaken. In an article titled \"The End of Pakistan's Baloch Insurgency\" Baloch analyst Malik Siraj Akbar reported that Baloch militants began killing their own commanders. However, Akbar called anger towards Chief Minister Abdul Malik Baloch \"growing and often uncontrollable\". Baloch militants have taken some reconciliation offers from the government and offered to hand in their weapons. In April 2016, four militant commanders and 144 militants had surrendered under reconciliation. 600 rebels were killed and 1,025 surrendered after accepting reconciliation as of August 2016. In April 2017, another 500 Baloch rebels surrendered to the state, including members of BRA, UBA, and LeB.\n\nBaloch separatists argue they are economically marginalised and poor compared to the rest of Pakistan. Being crucial for Pakistan's economic future, China has invested $46 billion in the region. The Balochistan Liberation Army, designated as a terrorist organisation by Pakistan and Britain, is the most widely known Baloch separatist group. Since 2000 it has conducted numerous deadly attacks on Pakistani troops, police, and civilians. Other separatist groups include Lashkar-e-Balochistan and the Baloch Liberation United Front (BLUF).\nIn 2005, a rebellion by Baloch against the Islamic Republic of Iran began. The fight over the IRI Baloch region bordering Pakistan has \"not gained\" as much ground as the conflict in Pakistan. Human rights activists have accused nationalist militants and the Government of Pakistan of human rights abuses.\n\nPakistani government backed militants have targeted minority communities such as Hazara Shia on the basis of their religious beliefs. This inter-communal violence led to Hazara refusing to bury their dead and demanding that the Pakistani government deploy even more troops for their protection. The governor took charge and accused security forces of being \"too scared or clueless to act\", according to the BBC. Pro Pakistani sardars and their militant groups, who have pledged allegiance to ISIS such as Lashkare taiba and BLM, have also targeted moderate Sunnis who follow Sufi teachings. In 2016, an attack on the shrine of Shah Noorani killed 52 people, including women and children.\n\n\"The News International\" reported in 2012 that a Gallup survey conducted for DFID revealed that the majority of Baloch do not support independence from Pakistan. Only 37 percent of Baloch were in favour of independence. Amongst Balochistan's Pashtun population support for independence was even lower at 12 percent. However, a majority (67 percent) of Balochistan's population did favour greater provincial autonomy. The government has since taken democratisation steps, in 2013 provincial elections were held and a Grand Alliance of the Pakistan Muslim League (N) and Pashtun and Baloch local parties were formed. The Supreme court ordered local government elections to be held which by 2015 helped to further decentralise policy making for local population regarding health, education and sanitation, the ruling coalition re-affirmed its mandate in the Balochistan province and won the majority.\n\nHistorical Balochistan covers the southern part off Sistan o Baluchestan Province, Iran, in the west, the Pakistani province of Balochistan in the east, and, in the northwest, Afghanistan's Helmand Province. The Gulf of Oman forms its southern border. Mountains and desert make up much of the region's terrain. Most Balochis live in part that falls within Pakistan's borders.\n\nGeographically, Balochistan Province is the largest region of Pakistan (comprising 44% of the country's total area), but it is the least inhabited, with only 5% of total population, and the least developed. Sunni Islam is the predominant religion.\n\nStuart Notholt, in his \"Atlas of Ethnic Conflict\", describes the unrest in Balochistan as a \"nationalist/self-determination conflict\".\n\nThe Baloch nationalist struggle is centred on the Khanate of Kalat, established in 1666 by Mir Ahmad. Under Mir Naseer Khan I in 1758, who accepted the Afghan paramountcy, the boundaries of Kalat stretched up to Dera Ghazi Khan in the east and Bandar Abbas in the west. However, in November 1839, the British invaded Kalat and killed the Khan and his followers. Afterwards, the British influence in the region gradually grew. In 1869, the British Political Agent Robert Sandeman ended up mediating a dispute between the Khan of Kalat and the Sardars of Balochistan, and established the British primacy in the region. The tribal areas of Marri, Bugti, Khetran and Chaghi were brought under the direct administration of a British Agent, eventually to become the Chief Commissioner's Province of Balochistan. Lasbela and Kharan were declared Special Areas with a different political system. The remaining areas of Sarawan, Jhalawan, Kacchi and Makran were retained as the Khanate of Kalat, supervised by a Political Agent of Kalat.\n\nIn the 20th century, the educated Baloch middle class harboured hopes of an independent Balochistan free of the British. They formed a nationalist movement Anjuman-e-Ittehad-e-Balochistan in 1931. One of their first campaigns was to fight for the accession of Azam Jan as the Khan of Kalat and a constitutional government to be established under him. They were successful in establishing Azam Jan as the Khan but the new Khan sided with the Sardars and turned his back on the Anjuman. His successor Mir Ahmad Yar Khan was more sympathetic to Anjuman but he was averse to upsetting his relations with the British. The Anujman, transformed into the Kalat State National Party (KSNP), continued to fight for independence from the British. It was declared illegal by the Khanate in 1939 and its active leaders and activists were exiled. This paved the way for the formation of new political parties, Balochistan Muslim League allied to the Muslim League in June 1939 and Anjuman-i-Watan allied to the Indian National Congress in the same year.\n\nDuring British rule Balochistan was under the rule of a Chief Commissioner and did not have the same status as other provinces of British India . The Muslim League under Muhammad Ali Jinnah in the period 1927-1947 strived to introduce reforms in Balochistan to bring it on par with other provinces of British India.\n\nDuring the Pakistan Movement, public opinion in Balochistan, at least in Quetta and other small towns, was overwhelmingly in favour of Pakistan. The pro-India Congress, which drew support from Hindus and some Muslims, sensing that geographic and demographic compulsions would not allow the province’s inclusion into the newly Independent India, began to encourage separatist elements in Balochistan, and other Muslim majority provinces such as NWFP.\n\nThe Khan of Kalat lent great support to the Pakistan Movement but also desired to declare independence. Lord Mountbatten, however, made it clear that the princely states with the lapse of British paramountcy would have to join either India or Pakistan, keeping in mind their geographic and demographic compulsions.\n\nOn 19 July, Mountbatten called a Round Table Conference meeting between representatives of the State of Kalat and Government of Pakistan. Mountbatten discussed with them the status of the Kalat State. The representatives of Kalat argued that Kalat, as per the treaty of 1876, was an independent and sovereign state and not an Indian state. Mountbatten accepted this position only for the purpose of negotiation. Thus, Mountbatten confined the topic of discussion to the leased areas of Quetta, Nushki, Nasirabad and Bolan. He explained that Pakistan rejected Kalat’s claims that these areas should be returned to Kalat.\n\nPakistan's position was that it would inherit all treaty obligations incurred by India to the foreign states. Kalat argued that the leases clearly stated that the other party besides Kalat was the British Government alone. Kalat argued that it was a personal agreement and there was no provision that the leases to the British would be inherited by others. Therefore, since the agreement was between Kalat and the British Government, Pakistan could not be the latter's successor party.\n\nPakistan did not agree that the agreement was personal as personal agreements by nature implied that only a particular person was involved. Mountbatten also said that according to international law, treaties such as the one being discussed were inherited by successors and not invalidated by a transfer of power. Mountbatten also suggested that in case there was no agreement the matter could be put before an Arbitral Tribunal.\n\nKalat wished to have further discussions on the matter. Kalat also argued that in case of a vote in the leased areas between joining Kalat and joining Pakistan then the vote would go in favour of the former. Pakistan did not agree that the vote would have such a result.\n\nKalat also expressed its deepest desire to remain on friendly terms with Pakistan and stated that it understood that Jinnah, who was anxious for a correct decision, wanted more time to study the issues between Kalat and Pakistan. Mountbatten, however, suggested that Jinnah not be brought into the discussions.\n\nMountbatten insisted that Kalat and Pakistan sign a standstill agreement, which both countries did. The Standstill Agreement also stipulated that both parties would discuss as soon as possible about their relationship concerning Defence and External Affairs. According to the Article I, 'The Government of Pakistan agrees that Kalat is an independent State, being quite different in status from other States of India'. However, the Article IV stated:\nThrough this agreement, the British Paramountcy was effectively transferred to Pakistan.\n\nHowever, without making any agreement with Pakistan and in violation of the Standstill Agreement the Khan of Kalat declared independence, to Jinnah's shock. After the Indian Government refused Kalat's request for merger with India, the ruler of Kalat unconditionally signed an Instrument of Accession with Pakistan on 27 March 1948, contrary to the wishes of his state's legislature.\n\nBalochistan contained a Chief Commissioner's province and four princely states under the British Raj. The province's Shahi Jirga and the non-official members of the Quetta Municipality opted for Pakistan unanimously on 29 June 1947. Three of the princely states, Makran, Las Bela and Kharan, acceded to Pakistan in 1947 after independence. But the ruler of the fourth princely state, the Khan of Kalat, Ahmad Yar Khan, who used to call Jinnah his 'father', declared Kalat's independence as this was one of the options given to all of the 535 princely states by British Prime Minister Clement Attlee.\n\nKalat finally acceded to Pakistan on March 27, 1948 after the 'strange help' of All India Radio and a period of negotiations and bureaucratic tactics used by Pakistan. The signing of the Instrument of Accession by Ahmad Yar Khan, led his brother, Prince Abdul Karim, to revolt against his brother's decision in July 1948. Princes Agha Abdul Karim Baloch and Muhammad Rahim, refused to lay down arms, leading the Dosht-e Jhalawan in unconventional attacks on the army until 1950. The Princes fought a long battle with support of local Balochs.</ref> Jinnah and his successors allowed Yar Khan to retain his title until the province's dissolution in 1955.\n\nNawab Nauroz Khan took up arms in resistance to the One Unit policy, which decreased government representation for tribal leaders, from 1958 to 1959. He and his followers started a guerrilla war against Pakistan, and were arrested, charged with treason, and imprisoned in Hyderabad. Five of his family members, sons and nephews, were subsequently hanged on charges of treason and aiding in the murder of Pakistani troops. Nawab Nauroz Khan later died in captivity. Nawab Nauroz Khan fought bravely and his death was a huge shock.\n\nAfter the second conflict, a Baloch separatist movement gained momentum in the 1960s, following the introduction of a new constitution in 1956 which limited provincial autonomy and enacted the 'One Unit' concept of political organisation in Pakistan. Tension continued to grow amid consistent political disorder and instability at the federal level. The federal government tasked the Pakistan Army with building several new bases in key areas of Balochistan. Sher Muhammad Bijrani Marri led like-minded militants into guerrilla warfare from 1963 to 1969 by creating their own insurgent bases, spread out over of land, from the Mengal tribal area in the south to the Marri and Bugti tribal areas in the north. Their goal was to force Pakistan to share revenue generated from the Sui gas fields with the tribal leaders. The insurgents bombed railway tracks and ambushed convoys. The Army retaliated by destroying vast areas of the Marri tribe's land. This insurgency ended in 1969, with the Baloch separatists agreeing to a ceasefire. In 1970 Pakistani President Yahya Khan abolished the \"One Unit\" policy, which led to the recognition of Balochistan as the fourth province of West Pakistan (present-day Pakistan), including all the Balochistani princely states, the High Commissioners Province, and Gwadar, an 800 km coastal area purchased from Oman by the Pakistani government.\n\nThe unrest continued into the 1970s, culminating in a government-ordered military operation in the region in 1973.\n\nIn 1973, citing treason, President Bhutto dismissed the provincial governments of Balochistan and NWFP and imposed martial law in those areas, which led to armed insurgency. Khair Bakhsh Marri formed the Balochistan People's Liberation Front (BPLF), which led large numbers of Marri and Mengal tribesmen into guerrilla warfare against the central government According to some authors, the Pakistani military lost 3000 to 4000 soldiers during the conflict with the Balochi separatists, while between 7,000 and 9,000 Balochi militants and civilians were killed with majority being unarmed civilians.\n\nAssisted by Iran, Pakistani forces inflicted heavy casualties on the separatists. The insurgency fell into decline after a return to the four-province structure and the abolishment of the Sardari system.\n\nIn early 2005, rape of a female doctor (Shazia Khalid) at the Sui gas facility was the spark igniting the conflict. Her case and the unusual comment by then Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf about the controversy, stating on national television, that the accused officer, named as Captain Hammad, was \"not guilty\", led to the violent uprising by the Bugti tribe, disrupting the supply of gas to much of the country for several weeks. In 2005, the Baluch political leaders Nawab Akbar Khan Bugti and Mir Balach Marri presented a 15-point agenda to the Pakistan government. Their stated demands included greater control of the province's resources and a moratorium on the construction of military bases. On 15 December 2005 the inspector general of the Frontier Corps, Major General Shujaat Zamir Dar, and his deputy Brigadier Salim Nawaz (the current IGFC) were wounded after shots were fired at their helicopter in Balochistan Province. The provincial interior secretary later said that, after visiting Kohlu, \"both of them were wounded in the leg but both are in stable condition.\"\n\nHowever, a 2006 cable from the American Embassy in Islamabad leaked by WikiLeaks noted that,“There seems to be little support in the province, beyond the Bugti tribe, for the current insurgency.”\n\nIn August 2006, Nawab Akbar Khan Bugti, 79 years old, was killed in fighting with the Pakistan Army, in which at least 60 Pakistani soldiers and 7 officers were also killed. Pakistan's government had charged him with responsibility of a series of deadly bomb blasts and a rocket attack on President Pervez Musharraf.\n\nIn April 2009, Baloch National Movement president Ghulam Mohammed Baloch and two other nationalist leaders (Lala Munir and Sher Muhammad) were seized from a small legal office and were allegedly \"handcuffed, blindfolded and hustled into a waiting pickup truck which is in still [sic] use of intelligence forces in front of their lawyer and neighboring shopkeepers.\" The gunmen were allegedly speaking in Persian (a national language of neighbouring Afghanistan and Iran). Five days later, on 8 April, their bullet-riddled bodies were found in a commercial area. The BLA claimed Pakistani forces were behind the killings, though international experts have deemed it odd that the Pakistani forces would be careless enough to allow the bodies to be found so easily and \"light Balochistan on fire\" (Herald) if they were truly responsible. The discovery of the bodies sparked rioting and weeks of strikes, demonstrations, and civil resistance in cities and towns around Balochistan.\n\nOn 12 August 2009, Khan of Kalat Mir Suleiman Dawood declared himself ruler of Balochistan and formally announced a Council for Independent Balochistan. The council's claimed domain includes Sistan and Baluchestan Province, as well as Pakistani Balochistan, but does not include Afghan Baloch regions. The council claimed the allegiance of \"all separatist leaders including Nawabzada Bramdagh Bugti.\" Suleiman Dawood stated that the UK had a \"moral responsibility to raise the issue of Balochistan's illegal occupation at international level.\"\n\n\"The Economist\" writes: \n\nUS-based exiled Baloch journalist and newspaper editor Malik Siraj Akbar writes that the ongoing Baloch resistance has created \"serious challenges\" for the Pakistan government, \"unlike the past resistance movements\", because it has lasted longer than previous insurgencies, has greater breadth—including the entire province \"from rural mountainous regions to the city centers\", involves Baloch women and children at \"regular protest rallies\", and has drawn more international attention—including a 2012 hearing by the US Congress. Islamabad has accused its neighbour India of supporting the insurgency in Balochistan. However infighting between insurgent groups as of late 2014 has weakened the movement. On November 23 Chinese Consulate was attacked By BLA fighters.\n\nMany factors limit the scope of the nationalist insurgency, the Baloch themselves are divided into rival camps and often carry out tribal infighting amongst themselves. Pakistan's ISI often exploits this and brings tribal rivals into the ruling government. Balochistan province itself is of mixed ethnicity, with Baloch being 54% and the rest being Pashtuns and Sindhis, who are overwhelmingly Pakistani nationalists, this information can be seen in preliminary findings of 2011 census. Sindhis vote for federalist parties such as Pakistan Peoples Party of Bhutto-Zardari family and Pashtuns historically voted for conservative pro-Pakistan Islamist politicians such as Fazal-ur-Rehman (politician). The Baloch practice Islam, are predominantly Sunni and speak Urdu with other ethnic groups such as Pashtuns and Sindhis, cultural traits in common with the rest of Pakistan. Government schools provide Urdu education, Baloch militants themselves stand accused of rights abuses, Human Rights Watch published a 40 page report which criticised Baloch nationalists of killing, threatening and harassing teachers.\n\nIn 2014 there were about two million ethnic Baloch in Iran.\n\nIn 1928, the new Pahlavī government of Iran was sufficiently well established to turn its attention to Baluchistan. Dost Mohammad Khan Baloch refused to submit, trusting in the network of alliances he had built up over the whole of the province south of the Sarḥadd. However, as soon as Reżā Shah's army under General Amīr Amanullah Jahanbani arrived in the area, the alliances dissolved. Dūst-Moḥammad Khan was left with a relatively small force and few allies of any consequence. The Persian army had little difficulty in defeating him. Once again Baluch political unity proved highly brittle. Dūst-Moḥammad eventually surrendered and was pardoned on condition he live in Tehran. After a year, he escaped while on a hunting trip. In due course he was recaptured, and having killed his guard in the escape was hanged for murder. Baloch activists complained that the new governance was centralised and dominated by the Persians, \"forcing the Baloch community and other minorities to fight to protect their rights.\"\n\nBaloch people in Iran have several grievances. The Shi'ite Islamic revolution perceived the predominantly the Sunni Baloch as a \"threat\". Sistan-e-Balochistan, the province where Baloch have traditionally lived in Iran, has the country's worst rates for life expectancy, adult literacy, primary school enrolment, access to improved water sources and sanitation, infant mortality rate, of any province in Iran. Despite its important natural resources (gas, gold, copper, oil and uranium), the province has the lowest per capita income in Iran. Almost 80% of the Baloch live under the poverty line.\n\nIn the early 2000s the radical Islamist group Jundallah became active in Balochistan. The al Qaeda-linked terrorist organisation has branches in both Iran and Pakistan. From 2003 to 2012, an estimated 296 people were killed in Jundullah-related violence in Iran. Attacks in Iran included bombings in Zahedan in 2007, which killed 18 people, and another bombing in 2009 that killed 20 people. In 2009, 43 people were killed in a bombing in Pishin.\nIn July 2010, 27 people were killed in bombings in Zahedan. In 2010, a suicide bombing in Chabahar killed 38 people.\n\nAmong the deaths in the Pishin bombings were two Iranian Revolutionary Guards generals: Noor Ali Shooshtari, the deputy commander of the Revolutionary Guards' ground forces, and Rajab Ali Mhammadzadeh, the Revolutionary Guards' Sistan and Baluchistan provincial commander.\n\nIn 2010 the leader of Jundallah, Abdolmalek Rigi, was killed, causing fragmentation of the group but not an end to insurgent attacks. In October 2013, the group \"Jaish al-Adl\" (JAA, Army of Justice), killed 14 Iranian border guards in an ambush in the town of Rustak, near the town of Saravan. Shortly there after, the Iranian authorities executed 16 Balochs, on charges ranging from terrorism to drug trafficking. Another group, \"Harakat Ansar Iran\" (Partisan Movement of Iran, HAI) killed two Basij officers and wounded numerous civilians in a October 2012 suicide bombing against the mosque of Imam Hussein, in the port city of Chabahar (Sistan and Baluchestan Province).\n\nAccording to analyst Daniele Grassi, \"Salafism plays an increasingly central role\" for the \"post-Jundallah\" militants of JAA and HAI. \"The rhetoric of groups such as HAI and JAA uses strongly anti-Shia tones. The two groups often refer to the Iranian Islamic Republic as a Safavid regime, in reference to the Safavid dynasty which introduced Shiism in Iran.\" Iran is also concerned about anti-Shia co-operation between the two groups and ISIS.\n\nIran has accused America of supporting Jundallah \"for years\". The US government, which has officially designated Jundallah a terrorist organisation, has denied this charge. Iran has been angered by JAA's use of Pakistani territory as a refuge, and has threatened military operations in Pakistan to counter terrorist groups \"on several occasions\".\n\nIn Balochistan, Pakistan, \"drivers\" of insurgency have been economic, cultural, involving immigration and human rights.\n\nEconomic inequality, and Balochistan's status as a \"neglected province where a majority of population lacks amenities\" is a dimension in the conflict. Since the mid-1970s Balochistan's share of Pakistan's GDP has dropped from 4.9 to 3.7%. Balochistan has the highest infant and maternal mortality rate, the highest poverty rate, and the lowest literacy rate in Pakistan.\n\nOn the other hand, according to a report published in the Pakistani English-language \"Dawn\" newspaper, members of Balochistan's elite society, including provincial government ministers and officials, own \"pieces of land greater in size than some small towns of the country\", and had luxury vehicles, properties, investments and businesses valued at millions of rupees.\n\nBalochistan receives less per/unit in royalties than Sindh and Punjab provinces, since Balochistan's wellhead price five times lower than in Sindh and Punjab (the gas wellhead price is based on per capita provincial income in 1953). Furthermore, the government has returned little of the royalties owed to the province, citing the need to recover operating costs. Consequently, Balochistan is heavily in debt.\n\nBalochistan Province receives Rs 32.71 per unit on gas revenues, including a royalty of Rs 13.90, excise duty of Rs 5.09, and gas development surcharge of Rs 13.72. Many private individuals with gas deposits on their land also receive payments. Many Balochs argue that such royalties are too low. In response, in 2011 Prime Minister Syed Yusuf Raza Gilani announced an addition of Rs. 120 billion (US$2.5 billion) to the gas development surcharge and royalty portion of the \"Aghaz-e-Haqooq-e-Balochistan\" package. However, royalties often do not trickle down to the common people in Balochistan due to the corruption and wealth-hoarding of Baloch tribal chiefs. This has hindered the growth of infrastructure.\n\nExtensive road and rail links developed by British colonialists in northern parts of Balochistan province have brought greater economic development to areas mainly inhabited by ethnic Pashtuns, which has also heightened nationalism among ethnic Balochs within the province.\n\nAnother grievance is the construction of the megaport of Gwadar, which began in 2002 and is run entirely by the federal government. Baloch complain that construction of the port relies on Chinese engineers and labourers, and few Balochs have been employed. There has been little improvement in living standards for Balochs in the area. A parallel town for workers at Gwadar is being built close to the old one to segregate Balochs from the growing influx of outsiders. Government officials illegally sold much of the land around Gwadar, making massive profits at the expense of local Balochs. The Pakistani government responded to the Baloch's increased resentment and resistance to their economic marginalisation in Gwadar with a hardline approach, stationing soldiers in the area to secure it from insurgent attacks.\n\nThe construction project resulted in the employment of a large number of non-Balochs, especially Punjabis, even though there is an excess in the number of unemployed Baloch engineers and technicians.\n\nDue to the historical shortage of skilled labour in Balochistan, skilled workers are often imported from other regions. Their arrival means new industries can develop, boosting the local economy; however, nationalists argue that this creates resentment amongst the local inhabitants. Like Karachi, which after migration from Balochistan, Central Asia, Iran, East Asia and especially a large number of people arriving from other areas of Pakistan in search of daily living settled there, it has been a national financial hub in Pakistan, thus the local inhabitants (Sindhis) became a minority in the largest city of their province. Nationalists argue against multiculturalism and non-Baloch immigration. Karachi city has been playing a key role as a financial hub for Pakistan and its economy has exploded to become on the major cities in Asia as a seaport. However, the city continues be a home for ethnic and sectarian violence. Balouch nationalist argue that migration leads to such events, and they are opposed to similar situation in Baluchistan. Mir Suleiman Dawood claims that the people in Balochistan remain deeply resentful of Pakistan's policies in the region and he, apart from other, rather militant, Baloch nationalist organisations have openly called for India's assistance in Balochistan's separation from Pakistan. On 12 August 2009, Khan of Kalat Mir Suleiman Dawood declared himself ruler of Balochistan and formally made announcement of a Council for Independent Balochistan. The Council's claimed domain includes \"Baloch of Iran\", apart from Pakistani Balochistan, but does not include Afghan Baloch regions, and the Council contains \"all separatist leaders including Nawabzada Bramdagh Bugti.\"\n\nAfter the soviet invasion, around 4 million refugees from Afghanistan arrived and settled in the region which has resulted in substantial demographic imbalance. Perceived marginalisation as a result of increased Pashtun migration from Afghanistan during the Afghan War drives the insurgency.\n\nA major factor in the Balouchistan conflict is education, which nationalists feel has been neglected. The government of Pakistan recognises that importing skilled labour from other regions has caused tensions in the region, and has thus sought to encourage scholarships for Balochi students so they can participate in development programmes. The quota for Baloch students in Punjab university was doubled in 2010 under the Cheema Long Scheme, on the order of CM Shabaz Sharif. The provincial governments of Sindh, Punjab and KP said they would take steps to encourage Balochistan students to enroll and benefit from 100% scholarships. However, nationalists argue that not enough education development is taking place, and that the government has neglected its duty.\n\nMany Balochis have not tended to look favourably on Pakistan and the army's intervention in politics as they see the military as dominated by Punjabis and the interests of the Punjabis (who make up 45% of Pakistan's population) and lacking Baloch representation.\n\nIn the insurgencies themselves, the military's \"harsh response\" has led to \"a spiral of violence\". (See Human Rights Issues below.) A report by the Pakistan Security Research Unit notes, \"Islamabad's militarized approach has led to ... violence, widespread human rights abuses, mass internal displacement and the deaths of hundreds of civilians and armed personnel.\"\n\nAccording to the International Crisis Group the attempt to crush the insurgency as in earlier insurgencies is feeding Baloch disaffection.\nModerate Balochs have been alienated from the government by the imprisonment of civilians without charges, and routine kidnapping of dissidents.\n\nDuring 1970s the then Afghan President Mohammed Daoud Khan established militant training camps in Afghanistan for Baloch rebels. These were the first modern training camps in the country.\n\nThe former Pakistani ambassador to the US, Hussain Haqqani, wrote that in the 1970s training camps were set up in Afghanistan by Daoud to support Baloch separatists in Pakistan. According to a student paper, \"Pakistan's fear that a communist Afghanistan would embolden the Baloch and Pashtun Marxist separatists in the western Pakistani province of Balochistan was confirmed when Daoud began supporting Marxist Baloch and Pashtun groups in eastern Afghanistan\".\n\nDaoud Khan was removed from power in Afghanistan in 1978 by a communist coup.\n\nIn 2012, Pakistani interior minister Rehman Malik stated that Baloch Republican Party chief Brahamdagh Bugti was operating militant training camps in Afghanistan, which were dismantled only after Islamabad conveyed its knowledge of these camps to Kabul. Malik said that the camps in Afghanistan were responsible for training up to 5,000 insurgents, and that Bugti had hired three large houses in Kabul. The Pakistani minister claimed that the president of Afghanistan, Hamid Karzai, had accepted that militants based in Afghanistan were fuelling terrorism in Balochistan. The Pakistani \"Tribune\" wrote that \"in response to Islamabad's request, Kabul has formally given its assurance [that it will] stop the infiltration of militants from Kandahar to Balochistan's border district Chaman.\" Previously, Karzai had always denied that Balochs in Afghanistan were supporting an armed struggle in Balochistan. According to WikiLeaks cables, Karzai said in a 2007 conversation with US officials, \"that [Baloch leader] Bugti had once tried to call Karzai but he had refused for the sake of good relations with Pakistan. Now he cannot forgive himself for refusing. Karzai assessed that Pakistan had troubles with many other tribes too, as a result of its trying to divide and conquer and turn the tribes against each other. Pakistan needed to address the bigger picture, Karzai urged.\" Baloch leaders such as Bugti left Afghanistan for Switzerland.\n\nAgainst the backdrop of heavy criticism of Pakistan's paramilitary Frontier Corps over its alleged role in forced disappearances and human rights violations in Balochistan, the chief of FC troops in Balochistan, Major General Obaidullah Khan Khattak, said in June 2012 that \"over 30 militant camps\" had been established in Afghanistan and were being used \"to launch terrorist and anti-state activities in Balochistan\".\n\nPakistan's Inter-Services Intelligence agency has been accused of working with the Afghan Taliban in Balochistan, with the Taliban's leadership council, Quetta Shura, named after the provincial capital Quetta.\n\nAccording to Malik Siraj Akbar, a Baloch journalist living in exile, there is a consensus in Pakistani authorities to allege that India is behind the insurgency in Balochistan and no evidence for Indian involvement needs to be shared. Pakistan has repeatedly accused India of supporting Baloch rebels, starting with an attack in Gwadar in 2004 where three Chinese engineers were killed. \n\nWright-Neville writes that Pakistani government and some Western observers believe that India secretly funds the Balochistan Liberation Army (BLA). The former American Af-Pak envoy Richard Holbrooke said in 2011 that while Pakistan had repeatedly shared its allegations with Washington, it had failed to provide any evidence to the United States that India was involved in separatist movements in Balochistan. He did not consider Pakistan's accusations against India credible. Holbrooke also strongly rejected the allegation that India was using its consulates in Afghanistan to facilitate Baloch rebel activity, saying he had \"no reason to believe Islamabad's charges\", and that \"Pakistan would do well to examine its own internal problems\".\n\nIndia has categorically denied the allegations, pointing to Pakistan's failure to provide evidence.\n\nBrahamdagh Bugti stated in a 2008 interview that he would accept aid from India, Afghanistan, and Iran in defending Baluchistan. When asked about the alleged link of his group with India, he is reported to have laughed and said, \"Would our people live amid such miserable conditions if we enjoyed support from India?\" However, while surrendering to the government, BRA's former spokesman Sarbaz Baloch remarked \"We were misled by Brahumdagh Bugti. We have now come to know that he works for India. Why should we fight in our own country for another country?\". Baloch National Front secretary Karima Baloch claims the allegations against India are an \"excuse to label ingrown Balochistan freedom movement as a proxy war to cover up the war crimes Pakistani state has committed in Balochistan\".\n\nOn 29 March 2016, Pakistan claimed that it had apprehended a serving Indian naval officer, Kulbhushan Yadav who was allegedly tasked by Research and Analysis Wing (RAW) to destabilize Pakistan. The Indian government recognised Jadhav as a former naval officer but denied any current links with him and claimed that he took premature retirement and was abducted from Iran.\n\nIn 2016, Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi criticized Pakistan and alleged human rights issues in Balochistan during an Independence Day speech. Pakistan condemned Modi's remarks, calling it an attempted diversion from violence in Kashmir and a reiteration of Pakistani allegations vis-a-vis Indian involvement in Balochistan. Modi's comments were welcomed by exiled Baloch separatist leaders but sparked anti-India protests by political organisations and locals in Balochistan.\n\nOn 8 June 2017, India raised the issue of Human rights violation at Balochistan at the United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC) that Pakistan has systematically violated the human rights of its own citizens in Baluchistan and Pakistan administered Kashmir.\n\nOn 10 February 1973, Pakistani police and paramilitary raided the Iraqi embassy in Islamabad, seizing a large cache of small arms, ammunition, grenades and other supplies, which were found in crates marked 'Foreign Ministry, Baghdad'. The ammunition and weaponry was believed to be destined for Baloch rebels. Pakistan responded by expelling and declaring persona non grata the Iraqi Ambassador Hikmat Sulaiman and other consular staff. In a letter to U.S. President Nixon on 14 February, Bhutto blamed India and Afghanistan, along with Iraq and the Soviet Union, for involvement in a \"conspiracy ... [with] subversive and irredentist elements which seek to disrupt Pakistan's integrity.\"\n\nAccording to author Mark Perry, CIA memos revealed that in 2007 and 2008 Israeli agents posed as American spies and recruited Pakistani citizens to work for Jundallah (BLA affiliate) and carried out false flag operations against Iran.\n\nThe Baloch Society of North America (BSO-NA) was a Baloch lobbying group founded in 2004 in Washington D.C. by Dr. Wahid Baloch, a graduate of Bolan Medical College who had gone into self-imposed exile in the United States in 1992. Between 2004 and 2014, his group had been trying to gain American (as well as Israeli) support for the independence of Balochistan. He held meetings with several American Congressmen and allegedly had meetings with several CIA officials. Dr. Baloch had long claimed that the Pakistani state was committing acts of genocide against the Baloch people, and that Islamabad's aim was to plunder the province's vast mineral resources. In January 2014 he released a letter appealing to the United States and Israel for direct assistance in preventing an alleged \"killing spree of Baloch people\" by the \"Pakistani army\".\n\nIn May 2014, Dr. Baloch disbanded the BSO-NA, claiming that the War of Independence of Balochistan was actually a \"war of independence of Khans, Nawabs and Sardars\". He has since formed the Baloch Council of North America (BCN), which has dedicated itself to working with all democratic and nationalist forces in Pakistan to secure Baloch rights through democratic, nonviolent means, within the federation of Pakistan.\n\nSyed F. Hasnat alleged that during the Soviet–Afghan War (1979–1989), the Soviet Union helped establish the Balochistan Liberation Army which chiefly operates from southern Afghanistan.\n\nThe US State Department's official policy rejects secessionist forces in the Pakistani part of Balochistan, in support of the country's \"unity and territorial integrity\". The US has, however, expressed concerns over human rights issues and urged parties in Pakistan to \"work out their differences peaceably and through a valid political process.\" In February 2010 a Jundullah leader captured by Iran, Abdulmalek Rigi, alleged on Iranian TV \"that the US had promised to provide\" Jundullah \"with military equipment and a base in Afghanistan, near the Iranian border\" for its fight against Iran. Rigi did not mention assistance in fighting Pakistan (which Iran accuses of backing the Jundullah, according to the BBC). The US has denied links with Jundullah, and according to the BBC, \"it is not possible\" to determine whether Abdolmalek Rigi \"made the statement freely or under duress.\"\n\nIn late 2011, the Balochistan conflict became the focus of dialogue on a new US South Asia strategy brought up by some US congressmen, who said they were frustrated over Pakistan's alleged continued support to the Afghan Taliban, which they said led to the continuation of the War in Afghanistan. Although this alternative to the Obama Administration's Af-Pak policy has generated some interest, \"its advocates clearly do not yet have broad support\".\n\nIn the 1980s the CIA, the Iraqi Intelligence Service, Pakistani Sunni extremist group Sipah-e-Sahaba Pakistan, and the Mujahedin e-Kalq supported a Baluchi tribal uprising against Iran. A February 2011 article by Selig S. Harrison of the Center for International Policy called for supporting \"anti-Islamist forces\" along the southern Arabian Sea coast, including \"Baluch insurgents fighting for independence from Pakistan\", as a means of weakening the \"rising tide of anti-American passion\" in Pakistan and heading off any alliance between Islamabad and Beijing – Pakistan having granted China access to a naval base at Gwadar.\n\nIn the period 2003 to 2012, it is estimated that 8000 people were abducted by Pakistani security forces in Balochistan. In 2008 alone, more than 1100 Baloch people disappeared. There have also been reports of torture. An increasing number of bodies \"with burn marks, broken limbs, nails pulled out, and sometimes with holes drilled in their heads\" are being found on roadsides as the result of a \"kill and dump\" campaign conducted by Pakistani security forces, particularly Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) and the Frontier Corps (FC) – which, until the 9/11/01 World Trade Center attacks, had sided with the Afghan Taliban and Al-Qaeda against the Northern Alliance in Afghanistan. A 2013 report from the Human Rights Commission of Pakistan identified ISI and Frontier Corps as the perpetrators for many disappearances, while noting a more cooperative stance from these agencies in recent years as perceived by local police forces. The Pakistan Rangers are also alleged to have committed a vast number of human rights violations in the region. No one has been held responsible for the crimes.\n\nMilitant groups like Lashkar-e-Jhangvi have systematically targeted Shia Muslims in Balochistan, with about 600 being killed in attacks in recent years.\n\nAbout 800 non-Baloch settlers (mostly Punjabis) and anti-BLA Balochis have been killed by Baloch militant groups since 2006.\n\nDuring a camp at Broken Chair, Geneva, Baloch Republican Party (BRP) leader Sher Baz Bugti alleged that Baloch youth, women and children were kept in \"torture cells\". BRP chief Brahumdagh Bugti called upon human rights organisation, including the United Nations, to take steps to stop the alleged \"Baloch genocide\".\n\nIn 2005, 32 Hindus were killed by firing from the government side near Nawab Akbar Bugti's residence during bloody clashes between Bugti tribesmen and paramilitary forces. The firing left the Hindu residential locality near Bugti's residence badly hit.\n\nAccording to the Human Rights Commission of Pakistan (HRCP) and other independent national and international media sources, the efforts of Pakistan governmental agencies in countering Baloch nationalism, as well as the activities of terrorist organisations such as Lashkar-i-Jhangvi and Pakistani Taliban, have produced a surge in religious extremism in Balochistan. Hindus, Shias (including Hazaras) and Zikris have been targeted, resulting in the migration of over 300,000 of them from Baluchistan.\n\nThere are more than 5,000 cases of 'forced disappearances' in Balochistan.<ref name=\"http://tribune.com.pk/\"></ref> Many are innocent and stuck in Pakistan's slow court system whilst other are in prison awaiting charges on a range of things such as gun smuggling and robbery. The chief justice of an apex court of Pakistan asked about the situation and said it was going out of control in Balochistan. The Supreme Court is currently investigating the \"missing persons\" and issued an arrest warrant for the former Military Dictator Pervez Musharaff. Furthermore, the Chief Justice of the court said the military must act under the government's direction and follow well-defined parameters set by the Constitution.\n\nIn June 2011, the prime minister was informed that 41 missing people had returned to their homes, false cases against 38 had been withdrawn and several others had been traced. The PM urged police to trace the missing people and help them to return to their homes.\n\nThe Supreme Court apex court headed by Justice Iqbal decided ordered the government to the grant of subsistence allowance to the affected families. Justice Iqbal advised families not to lose hope. He said the issue of missing persons had become a chronic problem and, therefore, the Commission of Inquiry on Enforced Disappearances, constituted on the orders of the apex court, should be made permanent.\n\nThe government of Pakistan has repeatedly stated its intention to bring industrialisation to Balochistan, and continues to claim that progress has been made by way of the \"Aghaz-e-Haqooq-e-Balochistan\" package of political and economic reforms issued in 2009. This is challenged by Baloch nationalist groups, who argue the benefits of these policies have not accrued to native Baloch residents of the province. Baloch nationalist groups continue to highlight the extraction of natural resources, especially natural gas, from the province, without discernible economic benefit to the Baloch people. Nonetheless, the government of Pakistan continues to insist that industrial zones are planned along the new Gawadar-Karachi highway. According to the government, this development is envisaged to bring accelerated progress in the future for the Baloch.\n\nIn February 2006 three Chinese engineers assisting in the construction of a local cement factory were shot and killed in an attack on their automobile, while another 11 injured in a car bomb attack by BLA. China recalled its engineers working on the project in Balochistan. The progress in the hydro-power sector has been slow since then.\n\nThe people of the region have largely maintained a nomadic lifestyle marked by poverty and illiteracy. The indigenous people are continuously threatened by war and other means of oppression, which have resulted in the loss of thousands of innocent lives over many years. Presently, according to Amnesty International, Baluch activists, politicians and student leaders are among those that are being targeted in forced disappearances, abductions, arbitrary arrests and cases of torture and other ill-treatment.\n\nThe chief minister of the province has said\n\"A large number of professors, teachers, engineers, barbers and masons are leaving the province for fear of attacks, This inhuman act will push the Baloch nation at least one century back. The Baloch nation will never forgive whoever is involved in target killings... He said the government has approved three university campuses, three medical colleges and hospitals for Turbat, Mastung, Naseerabad and Loralai districts but there was shortage of teachers in the area\". Rice traders from Punjab have also been killed in target killing, this has resulting in higher prices of foods items in Balochistan. Almost 40 people of non-Balochi ethnic groups were killed in 2009.\n\nFunding for Balochistan's annual development programme in 2010–11 was R27 billion, as compared to R13 billion in 2007–08. This allowed each Member of the Provincial Assembly of Balochistan a personal development budget of 180 million for his or her constituency, with the figure increasing to 250 million in 2011–2012. However, critics argue that development funding is not a fix for deep political issues, and that MPAs have no incentive to find political solutions with the insurgents when they believe they will receive more funding as long as the insurgency continues. There have also been allegations that MPAs are exploiting the PSDP programme to arrange kickback schemes and other forms of corruption.\n\nFour coal-fired power plants will be built Gadani, creating a power corridor in Balochistan based on the Houston Energy Corridor. This was announced by Prime Minister Nawaz Sharif during a visit to the region. The Gadani Power Park and it is expected to generate 5200 MW. Some nationalist groups objected to the project, saying they had not been consulted and instead favoured expanding access to electricity in the province rather than increasing capacity. However, Nawaz Sharif's PMLN party is the largest party in the Provincial Assembly.\n\nThe Federal government announced it would transfer Rs4 billion subsidy to Provincial Government to be passed onto farmers in Balochistan to promote for tube-wells. The Provincial Government announced it would spend further Rs3 billion to support the Federal Programme. However, high levels of corruption amongst civil servants and senior ministers may mean the common man only gets partial benefit.\n\nIn January 2011 then Chief of Army Staff of Pakistan Army, General Ashfaq Parvez Kayani, announced the establishment of Education City in Sui. The military said it had built colleges in Balochistan, such as Balochistan Institute of Technical Education (BITE) and the Gwadar Institute of Technical Education (GITE) with approximately 1,673 graduates. Around 22,786 Baloch students attend military-run educational institutions.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "977906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=977906", "title": "International Conference on Population and Development", "text": "International Conference on Population and Development\n\nThe United Nations coordinated an International Conference on Population and Development (ICPD) in Cairo, Egypt, on 5–13 September 1994. Its resulting Programme of Action is the steering document for the United Nations Population Fund (UNFPA).\n\nSome 20,000 delegates from various governments, UN agencies, NGOs, and the media gathered for a discussion of a variety of population issues, including immigration, infant mortality, birth control, family planning, the education of women, and protection for women from unsafe abortion services.\n\nThe conference received considerable media attention due to disputes regarding the assertion of reproductive rights. The Holy See and several predominantly Islamic nations were staunch critics, and U.S. President Bill Clinton received considerable criticism from conservatives for his participation, considering the fact that president Ronald Reagan did not attend or fund the previous conference held in Mexico City in 1984. The official spokesman for the Holy See was archbishop Renato Martino.\n\nAccording to the official ICPD release, the conference delegates achieved consensus on the following four qualitative and quantitative goals:\n\nDuring and after the ICPD, some interested parties attempted to interpret the term 'reproductive health' in the sense that it implies abortion as a means of family planning or, indeed, a right to abortion. These interpretations, however, do not reflect the consensus reached at the Conference. \nFor the European Union, where legislation on abortion is less restrictive than elsewhere, the Council Presidency has clearly stated that the Council's commitment to promote 'reproductive health' did not include the promotion of abortion. Likewise, the European Commission, in response to a question from a Member of the European Parliament, clarified:\n\n\"The term 'reproductive health' was defined by the United Nations (UN) in 1994 at the Cairo International Conference on Population and Development. All Member States of the Union endorsed the Programme of Action adopted at Cairo. The Union has never adopted an alternative definition of 'reproductive health' to that given in the Programme of Action, which makes no reference to abortion.\"\nWith regard to the US, only a few days prior to the Cairo Conference, the head of the US delegation, Vice President Al Gore, had stated for the record:\n\"Let us get a false issue off the table: the US does not seek to establish a new international right to abortion, and we do not believe that abortion should be encouraged as a method of family planning.\"\nSome years later, the position of the US Administration in this debate was reconfirmed by US Ambassador to the UN, Ellen Sauerbrey, when she stated at a meeting of the UN Commission on the Status of Women that: \n\"nongovernmental organizations are attempting to assert that Beijing in some way creates or contributes to the creation of an internationally recognized fundamental right to abortion\". She added: \"There is no fundamental right to abortion. And yet it keeps coming up largely driven by NGOs trying to hijack the term and trying to make it into a definition\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "636760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=636760", "title": "Jack Kelley (journalist)", "text": "Jack Kelley (journalist)\n\nJack Kelley is a former longtime \"USA Today\" reporter and nominee and finalist for the Pulitzer Prize in 2002, known for the 2004 scandal that ended his career.\n\nHe is perhaps best known for his professional downfall in 2004, when it came out that he had long been fabricating stories, going so far as to write up scripts so associates could pretend to be sources during an investigation of his actions by others at the newspaper.\n\nThe newspaper conducted an extensive review of Kelley's stories, sending investigators (including reporter and former mid-level editor Mark Memmott) to Cuba, Israel, and Serbia to check his work and sift through stacks of hotel records to determine if Kelley was where he claimed to be when filing stories. On 26 January 2004, Natasa Kandic of the Humanitarian Law Center in Belgrade disputed his account of using her as a source for a July 1999 front-page story on a typed Yugoslav Army order to \"cleanse\" a village in Kosovo.\n\nThe same month, Kelley resigned but denied the charges. The \"USA Today\" publisher, Craig Moon, issued a public apology on the front page of the newspaper. The scandal led to the resignations of two key staff members at the newspaper, top editor Karen Jurgensen and News section managing editor Hal Ritter in April 2004.\n\n"}
{"id": "4158890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4158890", "title": "Jesse Curry", "text": "Jesse Curry\n\nJesse Edward Curry (October 3, 1913 – June 22, 1980) was an American police officer who was the chief of the Dallas Police Department from 1960 to 1966. Curry was chief at the time of the assassination of President John F. Kennedy in downtown Dallas on November 22, 1963.\n\nBorn in Hamilton, Texas, Curry and his family moved to Dallas when he was a few months old. Curry's father served as a police officer in Dallas for a brief period of time before becoming a Baptist minister. Curry attended Dallas Technical High School. He was an all-district tackle and led his high school football team to the state finals against Greenville High School in 1933. He studied optometry for a short time after graduation. During World War II, Curry served for eleven months in the Civilian Pilot Training Program.\n\nCurry joined the Dallas Police Department as a traffic officer on May 1, 1936, and worked his way up the ranks to become the chief of police on January 20, 1960. As Curry explained it to the Warren Commission, he worked his way up in \"practically every assignment the police department has\", and graduated from the Northwestern University Traffic Institute in 1945/6 and the FBI National Academy in 1951.\n\nDallas Chief of Police Jesse Curry was riding in the lead car of the Presidential motorcade with sheriff James Eric \"Bill\" Decker when they turned west off Houston Street onto Elm Street. Looking straight ahead, they noticed \"a few unauthorized people on the overpass and wondered how they got there.\" Those people were later described as thirteen railroad men and two policemen who were stationed on the overpass (Triple Underpass) against rules of protocol. After the Presidential motorcade had proceeded a few more yards, Curry heard the first gunshot and immediately shouted over the police radio: \"Get a man on top of that triple underpass and see what happened up there!\" His words sounded an alarm that something was dreadfully wrong.\n\nOn April 15, 1964, Warren Commission assistant counsel Leon D. Hubert obtained a deposition from Curry at the US Post Office Building in Dallas. The following week on April 22, Curry, along with other officers of the Dallas Police Department, provided testimony to the Commission in Washington, D.C..\n\nCurry later recounted in his Warren Commission testimony and with the LBJ Presidential Library that as he rode in the lead car of the motorcade carrying President Kennedy, he provided security for both the president and the vice-president, Lyndon B. Johnson, at Parkland Memorial Hospital where President Kennedy died, and, later, aboard \"Air Force One\" when Johnson was sworn in as the new president.\n\nTwo hours after President Kennedy was assassinated, Dallas Police arrested Lee Harvey Oswald in connection with the fatal shooting of Dallas Police officer J.D. Tippit. Oswald quickly became the prime suspect in Kennedy's death and was charged with both crimes. Curry and the Dallas Police were initially praised for apprehending the alleged assassin so quickly, but the praise ended two days later when Oswald was shot by nightclub owner Jack Ruby while he was being transferred from the basement of the Dallas Police station to the county jail. Curry had allowed journalists and camera men into the area to witness the transfer in an effort to quell rumors that Oswald was being mistreated while in police custody. Curry was later criticized and sometimes blamed for compromising Oswald's safety and allowing him to be killed \"in the basement of his [Curry's] own building.\"\n\nAfter President Kennedy's assassination, Curry and his family received death and kidnapping threats.\n\nCurry was a member of the St. John's United Methodist Church in Dallas, where he was also a choir member. Two weeks before his death, he was honored as being the oldest member of the congregation. Curry was also a Freemason.\n\nCurry was married twice. He and his first wife had a son, Gene (born 1937). They later divorced. Curry then married Bessie \"Bea\" Wilhelm with whom he had a daughter, Cathey. They remained married until Curry's death in 1980.\n\nDue to health issues and on the advice of his doctor, Curry retired from the Dallas Police Department in 1966. In 1969, he wrote a book on the subject of JFK's assassination entitled, \"Retired Dallas Police Chief, Jesse Curry Reveals His Personal JFK Assassination File\". On November 5, 1969, Curry held a press conference to announce the release of his book said to contain his \"personal file\" of the assassination. During the interview, Curry expressed his doubts about the Warren Commission's single bullet theory and their finding of a lone assassin. Curry stated: \"I'm not sure about it. No one has ever been able to put him (Oswald) in the Texas School Book Depository with a rifle in his hand.\" Curry reasoned in another interview: \"I think there's a possibility that one [shot] could have come from in front [of the limousine]. We've never, we've never been able to prove that, but just in my mind and by the direction of his blood and brain from the president from one of the shots, it would just seem that it would have to [have] been fired from the front rather than behind. I can't say that I could swear that I believe that it was one man and one man alone. I think there's a possibility there could have been another man.\"\n\nAfter his retirement, he worked as director of security at the Texas Bank Building until 1976 when he was forced to step down after suffering two heart attacks. For the remainder of his life, Curry worked as a private investigator.\n\nCurry suffered from diabetes and survived a stroke in 1978. On June 22, 1980, Curry suffered a fatal heart attack in his sleep at his Dallas home. He was taken to Baylor University Medical Center at Dallas where he was pronounced dead. Curry was 66 years old. His funeral was held at the Ed C. Smith Funeral Chapel on June 25, after which he was buried at Grove Hill Cemetery in Dallas.\n"}
{"id": "34163516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34163516", "title": "Kōkōsei Restaurant", "text": "Kōkōsei Restaurant\n\nThis 9-episode television series was aired from 7 May 2011 to 2 July 2011 on Nippon Television network's \"Saturday Dramas\" program. \"Kokosei Restaurant\" garnered an average viewership rating of 10.68% throughout the Kanto region.\n\nShingo Muraki has voluntarily resigned from his job as a chef in a restaurant in Ginza after an argument with a customer. He reluctantly takes the job of advising a soon-to-open restaurant that is run by high-school students from his hometown. Along the way, Muraki faces many problems caused by the town council, who are anxious to justify the taxpayers' money is being used prudently.\n\n\n\n\nOn 13 February 2005, Mie Prefectural Ōka High School opened Japan's first restaurant run by high-school students. This restaurant, named , was built at a cost of 89 million yen. The students running the business are recruited from the high school's cooking club. According to Shingo Murabayashi, the founder of the restaurant and the cooking club adviser, \"Mago no Mise\" serves around 200 to 250 customers per day and has won several awards at national cooking contests. It is currently the only restaurant in Japan that is run by a public high school.\n\nThe story of \"Mago no Mise\" was documented in two books, and . These books were written by Shingo Murabayashi and published by Ise Shimbun. The television series is based on events that happened at \"Mago no Mise\".\n\nThe television series was first announced on 22 February 2011. It was also revealed that Matsuoka Masahiro, a member of the J-pop band Tokio, would star in the series as Shingo Muraki. This character is based on Shingo Murabayashi, the founder of \"Mago no Mise\". This is Matsuoka's seventh role in a drama series shown on NTV's Saturday Dramas time-slot, setting a new record. He previously starred in television series such as the drama adaptation of the manga \"Psychometrer Eiji\".\n\nThe supporting cast members were announced on 11 March 2011. Ryunosuke Kamiki and Umika Kawashima play the roles of students working at the restaurant. Actor Hideaki Ito, the star of the film \"Umizaru\", plays the role of an official from the local town hall. His character is based on Masayuki Kishikawa, a town hall official who worked on the \"Mago no Mise\" project.\n"}
{"id": "38506776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38506776", "title": "La Mare de Déu de la Salut Festival", "text": "La Mare de Déu de la Salut Festival\n\nThe Festivity of La Mare de Déu de la Salut is a festival celebrated in Algemesí (close to Valencia city), Spain, in August 29–September 8. The festival is in honour of the patron saint of Algemesí, La Mare de Déu de la Salut, and has been dated back to 1247.\nThe holiday was awarded the UNESCO \"Masterpieces of the Oral and Intangible Heritage of Humanity\" designation on November 28, 2011.\nThis celebration originated in Medieval times (1247) and has been held in Algemesí on the 7 and 8 September to great popular acclaim since then. The traditional ritual acts of the event have been passed from generation to generation and are rich in: oral expression (theatre), music (63 compositions), dance and performances reminiscent of the Roman, Christian, Moorish and Jewish cultures which have woven the very fabric of this land and which are manifest in the creation of the musical instruments, melodies and costumes that are an integral part of this Festivity.\nThe music of the traditional dolçaina and tabal, and the pieces for orchestra and timpani that provide musical accompaniment for the “Muixeranga” human towers and the dance performances of the “bastonets”, “pastoretes”, “carxofa”, “arquets”, “llauradores” and “tornejants”, recreate and stimulate a collective memory, transmitting universal messages of highly artistic visual and aural sentiments.\n\nThroughout the celebration, Algemesí becomes a living museum, testament to Valencian and Mediterranean traditions, interlaced with the faith, tradition and culture of the liturgical celebrations at the Basilica, the soundscapes created by the ringing of the bells and the 17th Century surroundings along the routes of the processions which over 1400 people take part in.\n\nThe feast day of Our Lady of Health, patroness of Algemesi is September 8, and commemorates the legendary discovery in 1247 of a statue depicting the Madonna and Child. The image venerated in the town since the mid-twentieth century is a replica, because during the Civil War the original image of the Virgin of Health was destroyed, as was the chapel. The festival appears to have originated in a street party in the area of the Chapel of Finding and gradually spread to other neighborhoods. The main celebration in held on 7 and 8 September, is preceded by a novena at the Chapel of the Finding, which begins August 29 and ends on September 6. The festival has preserved traditional dances and music, and has served as a source for the recovery of dances that formally existed in other locations and have been able to be re-established. The involvement of the town’s inhabitants is the foundation upon which the continuity of this celebration is based. Each ritual works and has been prepared independently since the 18th Century. For this unique feature, UNESCO has recognized the ritual, festive and community participation dimension of the Valencian celebration Our Lady of Health as part of the \"intangible heritage of humanity\".[1]\n\nLa \"Nit del Retorn\" - on September the 6th marks the beginning of the first big events of the Festival of the Mare de Deu de la Salut. At 20.30 hours it takes place the first parade (Volta General) through the streets of Algemesi accompanied by dolçainers and tabaleters, while at the end of the ninth which begins at 22 hours- at the door of the \"Capella of Troballa\" takes place the \"Misteris i Martiris\" representations by young children.\nThe different acts and celebrations are organized by the people of Algemesí in the following collectives: The historical areas of the city, participants in the traditional dances and ritual acts, the Basilica of Saint James (Dant Jaume), and the Local Council. Together, these groups form the “Fundació per a la Festa de la Mare de Déu de la Salut” (Foundation for the Festivity) and are responsible for supervising and organizing the annual festivities. A group of approximately 20 people, covering three generations and representing all the groups and institutions involved in the festivity, make up the supervisory committee. \nThe four historical areas of the city that were in existence in the 17th century (Valencia, La Muntanya, Santa Barbara and La Capella) take turns organizing the festivities on a four-year rotation.\nThe festival contains three parades on September 7–8, involving music, dancing, and Muixerangas. The first, the \"Procession of Promises\", takes place on September 7, and includes children acting out religious dramas. The second, the \"Parade of the Morning\", takes place the next day and includes representations of King James I of Aragon and his wife. The final parade, the \"Volta General\", contains depictions of biblical characters.\nAlmost 1400 people take part in the traditional ritual acts and dances, which are detailed below: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "39868943", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39868943", "title": "Latin American Film Festival", "text": "Latin American Film Festival\n\nThe Latin American Film Festival (LAFF) was a film festival dedicated to Latin American cinema, held annually in the city of Utrecht, Netherlands, from 2005 to 2013. \n\nThe top prize of the Festival was awarded since 2005 by a professional jury to the best film in the competition. The prize has been awarded to:\n\nThis special prize in the category \"Feature films\" has been awarded since 2007 to the following winners. \n\nThis special prize in the category \"Documentary films\" has been awarded since 2007 to the following winners. \n"}
{"id": "12587079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12587079", "title": "Liberatum", "text": "Liberatum\n\nLiberatum is an international cultural diplomacy organisation, multimedia and cultural content company founded by Pablo Ganguli in 2001. It creates and presents multidisciplinary artistic platforms and promotes contemporary arts, film, media, literature and culture worldwide through its own festivals, films, summits and other programming. Liberatum champions women's rights and women in creativity through its platforms across the world. \n\nLiberatum was founded by Pablo Ganguli in 2001 while he was living in Port Moresby, Papua New Guinea.\n\nLiberatum festivals, shows, content, programmes and summits are hosted in worldwide. They have taken place in Russia, Turkey, Papua New Guinea, Germany, Hong Kong, Italy, United Kingdom, France, United States, India, Morocco. The festivals encourage new and established artists to perform, discuss and promote their work in front of audiences so that they can debate and interact with their work. The artists are generally from different fields. Liberatum merged the worlds of art, fashion, music, both classical and contemporary encouraging them to collaborate.\n\nNotable figures who have attended and taken part in Liberatum events include Peter Donohoe, Stephen Frears, Sir Norman Rosenthal, Charles Saumarez Smith, Shekhar Kapur, Valery Gergiev, Thomas Ades, Tilda Swinton, Pharrell Williams, Kirsten Dunst, Michael Nyman, Michael Stipe, Philip Treacy, Sir VS Naipaul, Zaha Hadid, Daphne Guinness, Wole Soyinka, Richard Branson, Annie Lennox, Clare Short, Shabana Azmi, Marianne Faithfull, Shashi Tharoor, Courtney Love, Gore Vidal and Goldie Hawn.\n\nLiberatum and illy made a short film in 2014 called \"Inspiring Creativity\" featuring James Franco, Hans Zimmer, Tracey Emin, Joan Smalls about what drives their creativity. They have also made a film with W Hotels about transformation, including the performance artist Dita Von Teese; it was directed by Pablo Ganguli and Tomas Auksas. \n\nLiberatum's other film 'Artistry/Technology' is a documentary on the relationship between creativity and technological advancement. David Hockney and Francis Ford Coppola agreed to be in the film. \n\nLiberatum made a feature length documentary with Kinetik supported by EXPO 2016 about the environment and climate change entitled In This Climate in 2016 featuring Sir David Attenborough, Mark Ruffalo, Noam Chomsky and Cher. \n\nLiberatum has presented a wide range of cultural diplomacy programmes and festivals around the world including multidisciplinary ventures in Turkey such as \"Istancool\" and has developed similar ventures in Hong Kong, Marrakech, Moscow and Berlin consisting of merging several artforms and striking performance art elements. The \"New York Times\" described Liberatum as a \"cultural festival known for its hip quotient.\" \n"}
{"id": "15687022", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15687022", "title": "National Farm Machinery Show", "text": "National Farm Machinery Show\n\nThe National Farm Machinery Show is an agricultural machinery exposition held annually in February indoors at the Kentucky Exposition Center in Louisville, Kentucky, United States. Attendance exceeds 300,000 people, with 800 exhibitors in display space of .\n\nThe show started as an electricity demonstration and exhibit in 1963, and adopted the name National Farm Machinery Show in 1966.\n\nThe National Farm Machinery Show includes the Championship Tractor Pull, an annual event since 1969. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "43910448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43910448", "title": "Neon International Psychedelic Music &amp; Art Festival", "text": "Neon International Psychedelic Music &amp; Art Festival\n\nNeon Festival is a music biennial held in Turkey. The festival began in the 4th biggest city of Turkey, called Bursa in 2015.\n\nNext Neon festival will held in 2017.\n\nIt features a number of international psychedelic music acts, from genres including psytrance, dark psy, goa trance, full-on, forest, chill-out, psybient, ambient and reggae.[1] The festival has been headlined by Ace Ventura, Captain Hook, Liquid Soul, Perfect Stranger, LOUD, Avalon, Kalya Scintilla, MerKaBa, Kashyyyk. The festival is run and promoted by FC Organization. There are two stages; Main Stage and Chill/Reggae Stage.\n\nNeon Festival is also called as a transformational festival, almost every stage and art pieces of the festival has been created by recycled products. Neon, doesn't provide or working with sponsor or any entertainment companies.\n\n\nFully design, attelier and all the stuff has been produced by Neon Festival design team, led by stage masters and artists. Funktion-One Sound System has been used in 2014 edition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13954578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13954578", "title": "New Poland Express", "text": "New Poland Express\n\nNew Poland Express was an English-language newspaper published in Poland. Established in 2002 as \"New Warsaw Express\", it covered general-interest news about Poland and Poles, as well as Polish sports, business, and entertainment. Formerly a paper publication, after January 2008 it was published weekly as a PDF file sent out to 7,000 subscribers by email.\nIn August 2008 the paper was taken over by the publishers of the \"In Your Pocket\" guides and renamed \"New Poland Express\". It ceased publication in 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8032092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8032092", "title": "Novacon", "text": "Novacon\n\nNovacon is an annual science fiction convention, usually held each November in the English Midlands. Launched in 1971, it has been hosted by the Birmingham Science Fiction Group since 1972.\n\nThe first Novacon was organised by the University of Aston Science Fiction Group in November 1971, at a time when the Eastercon was the only regular annual sf convention in the UK. The first Novacon was judged a success and its members voted to make it an annual event. The organisation was passed to the recently formed Birmingham Science Fiction Group to ensure continuity from year to year. Since then, Novacon has developed into a fan-centred rather than academic convention, based around a single-stream, structured programme and intended to let its members network and socialise, as well as attend programme items; there are usually also several science-oriented items.\n\nThe annual Nova Awards are presented at Novacon. These are given in the categories of Best Fanzine, Best Fan Writer and Best Fan Artist. In addition, the Novacon committee occasionally presents its own Nova, for Best Fan; historically, recipients have a history of service to Novacon and/or the Birmingham Science Fiction Group.\n\n"}
{"id": "35859927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35859927", "title": "Operation Grange", "text": "Operation Grange\n\nOperation Grange is an investigative review by London's Metropolitan Police Service into the circumstances of the disappearance of Madeleine McCann. The operation, conducted by the Homicide & Serious Crime Command, is led by Detective Chief Inspector Andrew Redwood and he is supported by a further twenty-eight detectives and seven other staff. The review is overseen by the Gold Group management structure. The cost of the operation, which has been funded out of a special fund, has amounted to several million pounds. The review was launched in May 2011 following a request to Scotland Yard from Home Secretary Theresa May, with the support of the Prime Minister David Cameron. The issue of whether this request was the result of \"threats\" or \"persuasion\" from Rebekah Brooks was one of the issues raised at the Leveson Inquiry.\n\nIn September 2018, the Home Office announced: \"We have received and are considering a request from the Metropolitan Police Service to extend funding for Operation Grange until the end of March 2019\".\nUp to September 2018, Operation Grange had cost £11.6m. \n"}
{"id": "32625600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32625600", "title": "Papal conclave, 1559", "text": "Papal conclave, 1559\n\nThe papal conclave of 1559 (5 September – 25 December) was convened on the death of Pope Paul IV and elected Pope Pius IV as his successor. Due to interference from secular rulers and the cardinals' disregard for their supposed isolation from the outside world, it was the longest conclave of the 16th century.\n\nPope Paul IV died on 18 August 1559, aged 83. His church reforms had mainly been based on repressive measures such as the Inquisition and the Index of Forbidden Books – he had no confidence in the Council of Trent, dissolving it in 1552 and not reviving it.\n\nEven cardinals were accused of heresy – at the time of Paul IV's death, Cardinal Morone was a prisoner of the Inquisition in the castel Sant' Angelo. Paul IV, fearing that Morone might become his successor, issued the papal bull \"Cum ex officio Apostolatus\", which stipulated that a heretic could not be validly be elected pope – however, this was in vain since the College of Cardinals released Morone after Paul's death and allowed him to take part in the conclave. The bull also covered Cardinal d'Este, who Paul complained was trying to become pope by simony.\n\nPaul IV's reforms did not abolish nepotism, however – 3 of the cardinals at the conclave were Paul's nephews, the most influential being Carlo Carafa and the other two being Diomede Carafa and Alfonso Carafa. On the model of pope Alexander VI (one of the Borgia popes, who had died on the same date as Paul 56 years earlier), Paul had tried to build up his family's power in Italy, mainly at the expense of the Colonna family, whose many lands (including the imperial Palia fiefdom) were seized and handed over to the Carafa family. Paul's nephews ruled even more brutally than him and abused their power so much that at one point Paul was forced to step in, stripping Carlo of power early in 1559. Carlo never regained his uncle's favour and after Paul's death he and Paul's other two cardinal-nephews had good reason to fear their enemies would now take revenge.\n\nPaul IV was rigidly orthodox, intolerant, and authoritarian in manner. Spontaneous riots broke out in Rome after his death, with crowds toppling his statue and attacking the Inquisition's headquarters. 3700 troops were thus brought in to keep order, including 300 cavalry.\n\nAt the time of the conclave there were 55 cardinals, 47 of whom participated in it. Of those 47, one died during the conclave (Capodiferro) and two had to leave early due to illness:\n\n\nOf these 47 cardinals, 37 were Italians, 7 French, 2 Spanish and 1 German. 13 had been appointed by pope Paul IV, 11 by pope Julius III, 20 pope Paul III, 2 by pope Clement VII and 1 by pope Leo X.\n\n8 cardinals (5 French, 1 Spanish, 1 Portuguese and 1 Italian) did not come to the conclave. 2 of these 8 died during its sitting:\n\n\nThe College of Cardinals was divided into three factions: a Spanish one (17 Cardinals headed by cardinals Sforza and Madruzzo), a French one (16 cardinals, led by Ippolito d'Este, de Guise) and an \"Italian\" one (14 cardinals gathered around Carlo Carafa and Alessandro Farnese). A few cardinals remained neutral. The Spanish ambassador, Don Francisco de Vargas Mejía, regularly slipped into the conclave to counsel the Spanish group.\n\nThe French candidates for pope were d'Este, Gonzaga and Tournon. The King of France favoured Cardinal Carpi. Philip II of Spain preferred cardinals Carpi, Morone, Puteo, Medici and D'Oler – in short, any candidate other than d'Este or a Frenchman. Cosimo I, Duke of Florence, favored, although no relation, Cardinal Giovanni Angelo de' Medici, younger brother of Gian Giacomo Medici, an Imperial general in Germany and Siena. In total there were over 20 candidates.\n\nFor Carlo Carafa, choosing the new pope was literally a matter of life and death and so he mainly used the conclave to obtain guarantees that he and his relatives would not be punished for their abuses. He had one serious advantage – the Italian cardinals nominated by his uncle Paul remained loyal to him. He favoured Carpi and Gonzaga for pope. Although his uncle was an enemy of the Spanish, and encouraged France, Carlo decided to ally himself with the Spanish party.\n\nThe papacy was under criticism for failing reluctant to address abuses and the college of cardinals was split between moderates and conservatives, as well as along national lines.\n\nThe conclave began on 5 September 1559, with 40 cardinals present. Exploiting the fact that the French cardinals had not yet arrived in Rome, the Spanish faction tried to get Carpi elected by acclamation, but this attempt failed because Sforza (one of the factions leaders) opposed Carpi's election and secretly agreed with d'Este that he should lose.\n\nIn this situation, the normal procedures were implemented. On 8 September electors signed the electoral capitulation, requiring the pope who was elected to continue reform of the church and the curia and to resume the deliberations of the council of Trent and promote peace between Christian princes. By the end of September seven more cardinals had arrived in Rome.\n\nFor a few weeks voting took place routinely, without any result. Most votes were received by minor candidates. The Spanish Pacheco and Cueva were regularly given twelve to twenty votes; on 13 September the Frenchman Leonocourt received 18 votes; on 18 September the absent Cardinal Henry of Portugal was given 15 votes and 5; others voted for at this point included Rebiba, Ghisleri and Saraceni. Rannucio Farnese got 21 votes in the election on the anniversary of his grandfather's election as pope. From 9 September to 16 December 68 fruitless ballots were held.\n\nThe front-runners were still trying for office, however – on 18 September, with the support of Cardinal Farnese, cardinal Carpi put himself up as a candidate again. Over the next few rounds he received 11–16 votes. On 22 September the French tried to get cardinal Tournon selected, but his chances were dashed by Carafa's opposition, who supported the Spaniard Pacheco. In the voting that took place that day, Tournon received a total of 20 votes (including 5 by accession) and Pacheco 19 (including 1 by accession).\n\nA few days later, the French agreed with Sforza, leader of the Spanish faction, to support cardinal Gonzaga and push through his election by acclamation. This plan ended in a fiasco, with Gonzadze, Carafa and part of the Spanish faction objecting to it.\n\nOn 25 September Philip II's ambassador Vargas arrived in Rome and under his auspices Sforza, Farnese and Carafa met on 2 October. The ambassador suggested Puteo as a candidate instead of Carpi and Pacheco. Farnese and Carafa refused, however, and the meeting was unsuccessful. Around this time Sforza began to fight on two fronts – promising the French faction to keep agitating in favour of Gonzaga and the Italian party that he would do so in favour of Pacheco and Carpi.\n\nAt the end of September and start of October, there was extensive exchange of correspondence between the pro-Spanish cardinals and king Philip II. Francis II of France and Ferdinand I, Holy Roman Emperor also sent letters to cardinals recommending Gonzaga's candidacy. This breach of the canonical rule that the conclave be held in secret and without any influence from secular leaders outraged the people of Rome into protest, but du Bellay (dean of the College of Cardinals) rejected the objections.\n\nIn the second half of October Carafa broke his alliance with Sforza, as Philip II decided to return the fiefdom Palli Colonnie Marcantonio and ordered the Spanish cardinals to prevent the selection of Gonzaga at all costs. Cardinal d'Este allied himself with Carafa, hoping to win the election, but the vote on 1 December showed this was in vain, with many who had promised to vote for him not doing so. The French also – without much success – tried to get cardinals Tournon and Suau elected.\n\nIn the first days of December, in agreement with the French, Carafa again proposed Gonzaga, intending to gain his election by acclamation. However, in the meantime, Carafa received a letter removing the expected guarantees from Philip and he and the French returned to their alliance with the Spanish party. He then committed himself in writing to cardinal Sforza that he would not endorse any candidate opposed by Philip II. As a result, this session, which selected cardinal Gonzaga, nearly ended in cardinal Carpi being chosen by acclamation. The protracted conclave led to increasing concern on the streets of Rome, especially since the camerlengo was forced to reduce troop numbers due to financial problems.\n\nAfter the overthrow of the French-backed Gonzaga, Pisani was suggested as a \"transitional pope\", but to no avail. Their party in early December waned in numbers – on 1 December cardinal Capodiferro died, while on 13 December du Bellay had to leave the conclave due to illness, handing over his duties as dean of the college to cardinal Tournon. Six days later, Saraceni also left the conclave. The French had lost the ability to block the opposing party's candidates, so the Spaniards tried to push through the election of cardinal Pacheco. In the vote on 18 December the Spanish only missed the necessary majority by three votes.\n\nThe Christmas festival was imminent and this led the factions' leaders to make peace and conclude a compromise. At a meeting on 22 December leaders of all three parties met to decide upon a candidate acceptable to all sides. The French suggested cardinal Cesi, the Spaniards suggested cardinal Medici, but Carafa remained undecided. The French were eventually persuaded to back cardinal Medici, who was also strongly supported by the Duke of Florence and Vice-Chancellor Alessandro Farnese. Carafa also finally supported Medici, who promised him an amnesty.\n\nOn the evening of 25 December, 44 cardinals gathered in the Sistine Chapel and elected Giovanni Angelo Medici as pope by acclamation, ending the longest conclave of the 16th century. The cardinals asked Medici, however, whether he would consent to a scrutiny on the next day. He replied that he would, if they stipulated that the election by acclamation on 25 December was valid and canonical. Next morning, therefore, a Scrutiny was held and forty-four ballots were cast; two cardinals were absent, Saraceni and du Bellay. Medici received every vote except his own. He cast his votes for: François de Tournon, Rodolfo Pio di Carpi, Pedro Pacheco de Villena, Ercole Gonzaga, and Ippolito d'Este. This is another clear indication that the preferential ballot was being used in scrutinies, and that an elector could and did vote for more than one person on a ballot. Giovanni de' Medici took the name Pius IV and on the feast of the Epiphany on 6 January 1560 the Cardinal protodeacon Alessandro Farnese crowned him with the papal tiara.\n\nWithin a week of his election Pius promulgated new regulations governing the secrecy of the conclave, to address some of the outside influence on the conclave.\n\nThe choice of Pius IV was a reaction to the brutal rule of Paul IV and his nephews. Pius had nothing to do with his predecessor's pride and arrogance and he resumed and completed the Council of Trent. Although he had fathered three children before his consecration as pope, he kept them in obscurity and out of church governance, unlike pope Paul III and pope Alexander VI. His only cardinal-nephew was Charles Borromeo, a future saint – as for Paul IV's nephews, he showed no mercy, arresting Carlo and Alfonso in 1560 (Diomede had died just after the conclave), executing Carlo in 1561 and only pardoning Alfonso after he had spent over a year in prison.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53430710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53430710", "title": "Qui...?", "text": "Qui...?\n\nQui…? (Translation: “Who…?”) is a 1989 Belgian novelty song hit by the New Beat band Brussels Sound Revolution. It features samples of the speech Belgian former Prime Minister Paul Vanden Boeynants gave after he had been kidnapped by the gang of Patrick Haemers that same year. It was a hit on both sides of the Belgian language border. In Flanders, Belgium it reached the 28th place in the Radio 2 hitparade at the time for one week.\n\nBrussels Sound Revolution was a project by Paul Denoy, the former bass player of the bands Marine, Snowy Red and La Muerte, and producer Jacky Maurer. The group released one single, \"Qui...?\" based on the kidnapping of Paul Vanden Boeynants on January 14, 1989. After a month, on February 13, the kidnappers, Patrick Haemers, Philippe Lacroix, Kapllan Murat, Marc Van Dam and Denise Tyack were arrested and Vandenboeynants was freed without severe harm. He organized a press conference where he explained what happened during his kidnapping, mentioning that he was angry when his trademark pipe had been stolen, leading to the question: \"Qui m'a enlevé ma pipe?\" (\"Who has taken my pipe?\"). Denoy and Maurer felt it would be funny to sample parts of Vandenboeynants' speech and make a song about it in the style of the internationally popular new beat genre. They named their group \"Brussels Sound Revolution\", which shared the same initials as the \"Brigade Spéciales de Recherche\", the police corps who arrested the criminals. The song was called \"Qui...?\", after the recurring refrain. It became a hit in Belgium, received its own music video and sold over 50.000 copies. Vanden Boeynants let the song be, but still asked publicity rights through his lawyer.\n\nBrussels Sound Revolution also recorded a song called \"C'est Moi\", which sampled parts of Patrick Haemers' press conference speech, but this was no success.\n\nThe song received a music video in which a look-a-like of Vanden Boeynants with a bandaged head, sunglasses, pipe clenched between his lips and dressed in a raincoat dances along to the beat. The video also features point-of-view shots of a pipe travelling through the city. In one scene the kidnapping itself is spoofed with toy characters arriving by toy car, beating up another toy character and taking him along with them in the vehicle.\n\nA group named Boucherie Le Touquet, named after Vanden Boeynants’ butcher shop, also released a single in 1989 based on samples from the same press conference: ‘’Ferme ta gueule’’ (‘’Keep your mouth shut’’), but this wasn’t a success.\n"}
{"id": "26259985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26259985", "title": "Rey de Reyes (2004)", "text": "Rey de Reyes (2004)\n\nThe Rey de Reyes 2004 (Spanish for \"King of Kings\") was the eight annual Rey de Reyes professional wrestling tournament and show, produced by the Mexican wrestling promotion AAA. The event took place on March 5, 2004 in the Toreo de Cuatro Caminos arena in Naucalpan, Mexico State, Mexico. The main focus of the 2004 Rey de Reyes show was the eighth annual Rey de Reyes tournament which this year was reduced to a single match between an AAA representative, (Latin Lover) and a representative from AAA’s North American working partner Total Nonstop Action Wrestling, (Jeff Jarrett – NWA World Heavyweight Champion at the time). The undercard saw a Parejas Suicida between the teams of Chessman and Tiffany and the husband and wife team of Electroshock and Lady Apache, where the losing team would have to face each other with their hair on the line. The twist in this Parejas Suicida was it was an Intergender tag team match which forced a man to wrestle a woman in the ensuing match. Also featured on the card was a 3-way tag team match for an opportunity at the AAA Mascot Tag Team Championship (where the team is r Regular sized competitor teaming with a \"mini\" wrestler). The three teams vying for that opportunity were Abismo Negro and Mini Abismo Negro, El Alebrije and Cuije and the team of the Monsther and Chucky. They would face the reigning Mascot champions, Máscara Ságrada and Mascarita Sagrada, that same night.\n\nStarting in 1997 and every year since then the Mexican \"Lucha Libre\", or professional wrestling, company AAA has held a Rey de Reyes (Spanish for \"King of Kings') show in the spring. The 1997 version was held in February, while all subsequent Rey de Reyes shows were held in March. As part of their annual Rey de Reyes event AAA holds the eponymious Rey de Reyes tournament to determine that specific year's \"Rey\". Most years the show hosts both the qualifying round and the final match, but on occasion the qualifying matches have been held prior to the event as part of AAA's weekly television shows. The traditional format consists of four preliminary rounds, each a Four-man elimination match with each of the four winners face off in the tournament finals, again under elimination rules. There have been years where AAA has employed a different format to determine a winner. The winner of the Rey de Reyes tournament is given a large ornamental sword to symbolize their victory, but is normally not guaranteed any other rewards for winning the tournament, although some years becoming the Rey de Reyes has earned the winner a match for the AAA Mega Championship. From 1999 through 2009 AAA also held an annual \"Reina de Reinas\" (\"Queen of Queens\") tournament, but later turned that into an actual championship that could be defended at any point during the year, abandoning the annual tournament concept. The 2004 show was the eight Rey de Reyes show in the series.\n\nThe Rey de Reyes show featured seven professional wrestling matches with different wrestlers involved in pre-existing, scripted feuds, plots, and storylines. Wrestlers were portrayed as either heels (referred to as \"rudos\" in Mexico, those that portray the \"bad guys\") or faces (\"técnicos\" in Mexico, the \"good guy\" characters) as they followed a series of tension-building events, which culminated in a wrestling match or series of matches.\n"}
{"id": "68762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=68762", "title": "Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court", "text": "Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court\n\nThe Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court (often referred to as the International Criminal Court Statute or the Rome Statute) is the treaty that established the International Criminal Court (ICC). It was adopted at a diplomatic conference in Rome on 17 July 1998 and it entered into force on 1 July 2002. As of October 2017, 123 states are party to the statute. Among other things, the statute establishes the court's functions, jurisdiction and structure.\n\nThe Rome Statute established four core international crimes: genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes, and the crime of aggression. Those crimes \"shall not be subject to any statute of limitations\". Under the Rome Statute, the ICC can only investigate and prosecute the four core international crimes in situations where states are \"unable\" or \"unwilling\" to do so themselves; the jurisdiction of the court is complementary to jurisdictions of domestic courts. The court has jurisdiction over crimes only if they are committed in the territory of a state party or if they are committed by a national of a state party; an exception to this rule is that the ICC may also have jurisdiction over crimes if its jurisdiction is authorized by the United Nations Security Council.\n\nThe Rome Statute established four core international crimes: genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes, and crime of aggression. Following years of negotiation, aimed at establishing a permanent international tribunal to prosecute individuals accused of genocide and other serious international crimes, such as crimes against humanity, war crimes and crimes of aggression, the United Nations General Assembly convened a five-week diplomatic conference in Rome in June 1998 \"to finalize and adopt a convention on the establishment of an international criminal court\". On 17 July 1998, the Rome Statute was adopted by a vote of 120 to 7, with 21 countries abstaining. Because the way each delegation voted was officially unrecorded, there is some dispute over the identity of the seven countries that voted against the treaty. It is certain that the People's Republic of China, Israel, and the United States were three of the seven because they have publicly confirmed their negative votes; India, Indonesia, Iraq, Libya, Qatar, Russia, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, and Yemen have been identified by various observers and commentators as possible sources for the other four negative votes, with Iraq, Libya, Qatar, and Yemen being the four most commonly identified. Israel’s vote against was publicly declared as being due to the inclusion in the list of a war crimes of “the action of transferring population into occupied territory”.\n\nOn 11 April 2002, ten countries ratified the statute at the same time at a special ceremony held at the United Nations headquarters in New York City, bringing the total number of signatories to sixty, which was the minimum number required to bring the statute into force, as defined in Article 126. The treaty entered into force on 1 July 2002; the ICC can only prosecute crimes committed on or after that date. The statute was modified in 2010 after the Review Conference in Kampala, Uganda, but the amendments to the statute that were adopted at that time are not effective yet.\n\nThe Rome Statute is the result of multiple attempts for the creation of a supranational and international tribunal. At the end of the 19th century, the international community took the first steps towards the institution of permanent courts with supranational jurisdiction. With the Hague International Peace Conferences, representatives of the most powerful nations made an attempt to harmonize laws of war and to limit the use of technologically advanced weapons. After World War I and even more after the heinous crimes committed during World War II, it became a priority to prosecute individuals responsible for crimes so serious that needed to be called \"against humanity\". In order to re-affirm basic principles of democratic civilisation, the alleged criminals were not executed in public squares or sent to torture camps, but instead treated as criminals: with a regular trial, the right to defense and the presumption of innocence. The Nuremberg trials marked a crucial moment in legal history, and after that, some treaties that led to the drafting of the Rome Statute were signed.\n\nUN General Assembly Resolution n. 260 9 December 1948, the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide, was the first step towards the establishment of an international permanent criminal tribunal with jurisdiction on crimes yet to be defined in international treaties. In the resolution there was a hope for an effort from the Legal UN commission in that direction. The General Assembly, after the considerations expressed from the commission, established a committee to draft a statute and study the related legal issues. In 1951 a first draft was presented; a second followed in 1955 but there were a number of delays, officially due to the difficulties in the definition of the crime of aggression, that were only solved with diplomatic assemblies in the years following the statute's coming into force. The geopolitical tensions of the Cold War also contributed to the delays.\n\nTrinidad and Tobago asked the General Assembly in December 1989 to re-open the talks for the establishment of an international criminal court and in 1994 presented a draft Statute. The General Assembly created an \"ad hoc\" committee for the International Criminal Court and, after hearing the conclusions, a Preparatory Committee that worked for two years (1996–1998) on the draft. Meanwhile, the United Nations created the \"ad hoc\" tribunals for the former Yugoslavia (ICTY) and for Rwanda (ICTR) using statutes—and amendments due to issues raised during pre-trial or trial stages of the proceedings—that are quite similar to the Rome Statute.\n\nDuring its 52nd session the UN General Assembly decided to convene a diplomatic conference for the establishment of the International Criminal Court, held in Rome 15 June–17 July 1998 to define the treaty, entered into force on 1 July 2002. This Rome Conference was attended by representatives from 161 member states, along with observers from various other organizations, intergovernmental organizations and agencies, and non-governmental organizations (including many human rights groups) and was held at the headquarters of the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, located about 4 km away from the Vatican (one of the states represented).\n\nThe Rome Statute outlines the ICC's structure and areas of jurisdiction. The ICC can prosecute individuals (but not states or organizations) for four kinds of crimes: genocide, crimes against humanity, war crimes, and the crime of aggression. These crimes are detailed in Articles 6, 7, 8, and 8 \"bis\" of the Rome Statute, respectively. They must have been committed after 1 July 2002, when the Rome Statute came into effect. The ICC has jurisdiction over these crimes in three cases: first, if they took place on the territory of a State Party; second, if they were committed by a national of a State Party; or third, if the crimes were referred to the Prosecutor by the UN Security Council. The ICC may begin an investigation before issuing a warrant if the crimes were referred by the UN Security Council or if a State Party requests an investigation. Otherwise, the Prosecutor must seek authorization from a Pre-Trial Chamber of three judges to begin an investigation \"proprio motu\" (on its own initiative). The only type of immunity the ICC recognizes is that it cannot prosecute those under 18 when the crime was committed. In particular, no officials – not even a head of state – are immune from prosecution.\nThe Rome Statute established three bodies: the ICC itself, the Assembly of States Parties (ASP), and the Trust Fund for Victims. The ASP has two subsidiary bodies. These are the Permanent Secretariat, established in 2003, and an elected Bureau which includes a president and vice-president. The ICC itself has four organs: the Presidency (with mostly administrative responsibilities); the Divisions (the Pre-Trial, Trial, and Appeals judges); the Office of the Prosecutor; and the Registry (whose role is to support the other three organs). The functions of these organs are detailed in Part 4 of the Rome Statute.\n\nAny amendment to the Rome Statute requires the support of a two-thirds majority of the states parties, and an amendment (except those amending the list of crimes) will not enter into force until it has been ratified by seven-eighths of the states parties. A state party which has not ratified such an amendment may withdraw with immediate effect.\n\nAny amendment to the list of crimes within the jurisdiction of the court will only apply to those states parties that have ratified it. It does not need a seven-eighths majority of ratifications.\n\nThe states parties held a Review Conference in Kampala, Uganda from 31 May to 11 June 2010. The Review Conference adopted a definition of the crime of aggression, thereby allowing the ICC to exercise jurisdiction over the crime for the first time. It also adopted an expansion of the list of war crimes.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13248902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13248902", "title": "Rudolf (musical)", "text": "Rudolf (musical)\n\nRudolf is a musical conceived for the stage by Frank Wildhorn and Steve Cuden, with a book by Jack Murphy and Phoebe Hwang, lyrics by Murphy, additional lyrics by Nan Knighton, and music by Frank Wildhorn. Arrangements by Koen Schoots and orchestrations by Kim Scharnberg. It is about Rudolf, Crown Prince of Austria and his extramarital relationship with Baroness Mary Vetsera. Their 1889 deaths at his Mayerling hunting lodge apparently were the result of a murder-suicide pact, although historians have debated this explanation.\n\nLoosely based on the book \"A Nervous Splendor: Vienna 1888-1889\" by Frederic Morton, the musical was developed under the working titles \"Vienna\", \"Affäre Mayerling\" (\"The Mayerling Affair\"), and \"Rudolf - The Last Kiss\". The pressures of the monarchy have fallen upon Rudolf's shoulders, he is in political and personal conflict with his father, Emperor Franz Joseph, and his marriage to Princess Stéphanie of Belgium is crumbling when he meets and falls in love with the 17-year-old baroness. Their secret liaison doesn't escape the attention of prime minister Eduard Taaffe, who hopes to use his knowledge of the affair to destroy Rudolf's political career.\n\nCrown Prince Rudolf of Austria is forced, by his domineering wife Princess Stéphanie of Belgium, to attend a ceremony commemorating forty years of reign by his father, Emperor Franz-Joseph. All the upper class of Austria attend the celebration, in the renovated Hofburg Theatre, and revel in their eccentricity; while the poor lower class citizens riot outside demanding reform. A miserable Rudolf spends the evening drinking and fighting a terrible cold. (“Vorhang auf / Curtain Up”).\n\nFranz-Joseph gives his guests a speech promising a bright future for Austria, before pulling a switch that lights the theatre with electricity for the first time. The guests are then treated to a show starring three female singers in white gowns (“Wiener Schmäh / Viennese Specialties”). Suddenly, a lower class woman runs up onto the stage and shoots herself in the head, splattering blood all over the performers' dresses. Most of the guests run out in fear, but Rudolf stays and kneels before the body asking, “Why?” Baroness Mary Vetsera steps forward and explains, “It is better to die all at once than to die a little every day.” Rudolf is left contemplating the suffering of his subjects (\"Wie jeder andere Mann Prolog / An Ordinary Man\").\n\nFranz-Joseph has a meeting with his Minister-President, Count Eduard Taaffe about the “embarrassing” incident and rebellious newspaper articles published by a mysterious revolutionary named, “Julius Felix.” Rudolf interrupts begging his father to listen to his people, but the latter has no intent of doing so. Taaffe vents his suspicions that Julius Felix is an alias for Rudolf’s cousin, Archduke Johan Salvator. Franz-Joseph is hesitant to believe Taaffe, but commands him to uncover the truth. Once Taaffe leaves, Rudolf tries to explain to his father that he can no longer ignore the cries of the lower class, but Franz-Joseph again denies Rudolf’s pleas. The two men argue over how neither one understands the other (“Du willst nicht hören / You Never Listen”).\n\nThe next afternoon, Mary takes a walk with her best friend, Countess Marie Larisch, while reading Julius Felix’s latest article (“Wiener Schmäh (reprise) / Viennese Specialties (reprise)”). Mary, a fellow liberal, is enthralled by Felix’s words, but Marie thinks he is dangerous. Marie advises Mary to turn her attention instead to saving her poor family from ruin by marrying the wealthy Duke of Bragança, but Mary is not interested. Marie reminds her friend that they have to prepare for a ball Franz-Joseph is hosting that night and goes into detail on how a woman can dress to attract a man (“Ein Hübscher Krieg / Pretty Little War.”) Mary muses on her desire to find someone who shares her ideals (“Mary's Lied / Mary's Song”).\n\nThe ball is in honor of the newly crowned German Emperor, Wilhelm II, another of Rudolf's cousins. Still suffering from his cold, Rudolf does not desire to attend, but is again forced to by Stéphanie (“Der Ball / The Ball”). While greeting guests Rudolf again meets Mary, but this time they talk and share a dance. Rudolf surprises Mary with his knowledge of Julius Felix’s articles and his understanding of their message (“Marys Walzer / Mary's Waltz”). Stéphanie sees the two together but has grown so used to Rudolf's increasing infidelity that she doesn't stop them. Rudolf expresses his wish to see Mary again before she leaves (“Der Ball (reprise) / The Ball (reprise)”). \nAfter the ball, Rudolf, Wilhelm II and Edward, Prince of Wales, visit a brothel. Wilhelm and Edward both leave with prostitutes, but Rudolf can only think of Mary. Elsewhere, Mary thinks about Rudolf. Neither can fight the feeling that their meeting meant so much more than met the eye (“So viel mehr / Something More.”)\n\nThe next day, Taafe meets with Mr. Moriz Szeps, the editor of the newspaper responsible for printing the writings of Julius Felix, and demands he stop printing the articles. Unsure of Szeps’ cooperation, Taafe orders the destruction of the newspaper’s editorial office (“Die Strahlende Zukunft / Blue Skies”).\n\nIn the destroyed office, Rudolf secretly meets with Szeps and his associates. The men declare that they have written up a new constitution for a free and liberal Europe and try to convince Rudolf to sign the document (“Zeit zu Handeln / Finish What You've Started”). Rudolf is hesitant to sign, not wanting to commit high treason against his father. The men agree to give Rudolf time to make his decision. Once left alone, Rudolf wonders if he can find the strength to go against his father (Wohin führt mein Weg? / How Will I Know?”).\n\nMary than enters the office, looking to deliver a letter for Julius Felix. Rudolf reads the letter, which states Mary’s desire to meet Felix. Rudolf reveals that \"he\" is, in fact, secretly Julius Felix. Mary is shocked, but elated, and the two spend the evening ice-skating (“Tralala / The Tra-La-La Ice Skating Song”).\n\nRudolf informs Mary that they are being watched by Wiligut, one of Taafe’s spies, and suggests that they play a little joke on him. Rudolf and Mary pretend to flirt with each other, teasing Wiligut, but actually begin to fall in love in the process. (“In dem moment als ich dich sah / The Moment I Saw You”). Rudolf tells Mary of the one place where his life is not complicated and he can write the dreams of Julius Felix: Mayerling. Mary asks that Rudolf take her there some day.\n\nTaafe meets with Franz-Joseph to discuss the renewal of Austria’s alliance with Germany. When Franz-Joseph asks of Julius Felix, Taafe divulges new intelligence that puts Rudolf under suspicion; but Franz-Joseph does not believe his son could be responsible. Rudolf overhears the discussion and becomes distressed that Taafe could be close to discovering the truth.\n\nRudolf wanders the streets aimlessly and is discovered by Mary. When Mary asks what is wrong, Rudolf unhappily replies that, while being with Mary has made him happier than he has ever been, he can no longer see her. Mary affectionately convinces Rudolf to put his fears aside and accept the fact that he loves her. The two share a kiss and begin their affair (“Vertrau in uns / Only Love”).\n\nThat night, Rudolf suffers a nightmare in which he is tormented and Mary is hanged by a gleeful Taafe and a troupe of masked minions (“Die Fäden in der Hand / The Master of the Strings”).\n\nRudolf awakens from the nightmare screaming Mary’s name. Mary, who has spent the night with Rudolf, rushes to his side. Rudolf is visibly stirred but Mary is able to comfort him back to calmness. As Mary prepares to leave, Rudolf gives her a ring engraved with the phrase, “United in love until death.” Mary sadly insists that she will never be able to wear it, but Rudolf promises her that she will be able to wear it in Mayerling; until then Rudolf has Mary wear the ring on a chain around her neck so that it may be, “the companion of your heart.”\n\nSuddenly Stéphanie enters the bedroom, causing Mary to run out embarrassed. Stéphanie asks Rudolf what makes Mary different from his past affairs. When Rudolf answers that he loves Mary, Stéphanie flies into a rage promising Rudolf that no matter how much he loves Mary he will never be rid of her and she will be crowned and revered as Empress of Austria (“Du bleibst bei mir! / It Will Be Me!”).\n\nRudolf writes to the Pope, asking that his marriage to Stéphanie be annulled, angering his father. When Franz-Joseph denies the annulment Rudolf threatens to relinquish his title as Crown Prince. Franz-Joseph promises that if Rudolf does so, harm will befall Mary and her family. Franz-Joseph then commands his son to forsake his petition to the Pope and to make no more public appearances. Saddened, Rudolf tells of the torment the burdens of being a prince bring him and expresses his wish to live as an ordinary man (“Wie jeder andere Mann / An Ordinary Man”).\n\nRudolf returns to the brothel to wallow in a drunken depression. The prostitutes try to seduce Rudolf but he is not in the mood, going so far as to pull out a gun to scare them off (“Wiener Schmäh (reprise) / Viennese Specialties (reprise)”). When a young new customer arrives, all of the prostitutes shift their attention to him, sharing their vast knowledge of lovemaking (“Mein süsser Held / New Boy in Town”).\n\nMary startles Rudolf by appearing in the brothel dressed like the prostitutes. When Rudolf asks her what she is doing there, a visibly hurt Mary retorts that she had spent two weeks looking for Rudolf and when she found him in the brothel she thought that he favored the prostitutes over her, prompting her transformation. Rudolf swears that the prostitutes mean nothing to him, and tries to make Mary understand that he avoided her for her own safety. Mary affirms that she is willing to take the risk, and asks Rudolf when he will be ready to do the same.\n\nMary leaves and Rudolf contemplates suicide. However, Rudolf has an epiphany and instead proclaims that he is ready to stand up against his father and fight for the rights of his people (“Mut zur tat / Measure of a Man”).\n\nThe following day, Rudolf makes a surprise public appearance at an assembly hosted by Taaffe, who was opening a new Viennese exhibition. Rudolf gives a rousing speech to the masses, promising an innovative future in which all citizens will be treated equally, infuriating Taaffe (“Der Weg in die Zukunft / The Steps of Tomorrow”).\n\nMarie witnesses the speech and fears that while Rudolf may seem victorious at the moment, his doom is closing in (“Die Liebe lenkt / Only Heroes Dare”).\n\nMary enters a church and runs into Stéphanie. Mary tries to apologize for the affair, but Stéphanie firmly states that while she may always forgive Rudolf she will never forgive Mary. Mary desperately asks Stéphanie why she hates her so much, to which Stéphanie tearfully replies, “Because he loves you so much.” Mary leaves a weeping Stéphanie alone to pray.\n\nWilligut reports to Taaffe that he saw Rudolf and Mary enter a building with Szeps, and that Rudolf remained with Mary long after Szeps had left. Taafe deduces that it is Mary that is giving Rudolf his new-found courage and plots to separate her from the Crown Prince. Taafe summons Mary to his office and offers a large sum of money and a new estate in Milan for her and her family, if she will call off her affair with Rudolf. Mary bluntly refuses and Taafe promises a bitter end for the two lovers (“Wenn das Schicksal dich ereilt / The Writing's on the Wall”).\n\nRudolf visits Marie and asks her to pass on a letter to Mary insisting that she leave Vienna for her safety; for Rudolf plans to commit high treason by signing Szeps’ constitution. Marie does so, pleading with Mary to fulfill her duty to her family by marrying the Duke of Bragança. Lost in the sorrow of their separation Rudolf and Mary remember their time together, still aching for so much more (“So viel mehr (reprise) / Something More (reprise)”).\n\nRudolf signs Szeps’ constitution and hands it over to a servant to deliver to Szeps’ associates. However, Rudolf is betrayed and the document is delivered straight into the hands of Taaffe, who in turn hands it over to Franz-Joseph (Zeit zu Handeln (reprise) / Finish What You've Started (reprise)”). The broken Emperor summons his son and convicts him of high treason, stripping Rudolf of his rank and titles before disowning him. Meanwhile, Mary boards a train out of Vienna.\n\nRudolf runs to the train station, hoping to catch Mary before she leaves, but it appears that he is too late. Rudolf falls to his knees in tears, until he sees Mary approaching. Mary reveals she decided not to leave because she simply could not bear the thought of leaving Rudolf. With all of their hopes and dreams dashed, Rudolf and Mary pronounce each other as the only thing they have left in life (“Du bist meine Welt / I Was Born to Love You”). The two lovers decide that, “It is better to die all at once than to die a little every day,” and form a murder-suicide pact. On January 30, 1889 Rudolf finally takes Mary to Mayerling where, after sharing one last kiss, he shoots and kills her before turning the gun on himself (“Vertrau in uns (reprise) / Only Love (reprise)”).\n\n\"Rudolf\" was given a reading in New York City on December 16, 2005 with \nRob Evan as Rudolf, Brandi Burkhardt as Mary, and Michael Shawn Lewis as Taafe. As a co-production of Vereinigte Bühnen Wien, the Budapest Operetta Theater, and the Szeged Open-Air Festival, it had its world premiere in a Hungarian translation at the Operett Színház in Budapest on May 26, 2006, followed by an outdoor staging that opened in Szeged on July 28. Since then, the production has alternated between the two venues, playing in Budapest during the winter months and in Szeged for the summer season.\n\n\"Rudolf\" was directed by Miklós Gábor Kerényi and choreographed by Michael Reardon, Éva Duda, Jenõ Lõcsei, and László Rogács. Musical Direction by Koen Schoots. Gergely Zöldi translated the book, and the Hungarian lyrics are by Zöldi, MG Kerényi, and Szilárd Somogyi. The original cast included Attila Dolhai as Rudolf, Bernadett Vágó as Mary, Tamás Földes as Taaffe, and Attila Németh as Franz Joseph.\n\nA Vienna production opened at the Raimund Theater on February 26, 2009 directed by David Leveaux and starring Drew Sarich as Rudolf, Lisa Antoni as Mary, and Uwe Kröger as Taaffe. The cast album for this production was released at the beginning of April 2009. A complete professionally shot version of the Vienna production was released on DVD in October 2009. (Formally September 11, 2009). A complete cast album was released in December 2009. The complete cast album contained the changes to the score and the music left unrecorded on the first cast album. The production closed on January 24, 2010.\n\nA second Hungarian production opened on December 10, 2010 in Pécs. \nThe show was directed by Szilárd Somogyi (assistant director of the original Hungarian production), with Zoltán Bókai as musical director and conductor. \nIn the leading roles: Dénes Kocsis/Árpád Zsolt Mészáros as Rudolf, Anna Györfi/Bernadett Vágó as Mary, Ádám Ottlik/Attila Götz as Taaffe, Dávid Pirgel/ András P. Petőcz as Pfeiffer, Veronika Nádasi/Éva Várhelyi as Stephanie and Katalin Stubendek as Larisch. \nMajor changes showed up in the interpretation of the songs, and in some places the order of the scenes changed drastically.\nThe opening night was a success, and since then the show is on the repertoire of the National Theatre of Pécs.\n\n\n^ English lyrics by Nan Knightnon (Originally from \"The Scarlet Pimpernel\")\n\nAct I: \nAct II: \n\n"}
{"id": "16140576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16140576", "title": "Russian presidential referendum, 1991", "text": "Russian presidential referendum, 1991\n\nA referendum on creating the post of President of Russia was held in Russia on 17 March 1991. The referendum was held alongside a referendum of the preservation of USSR. Prior to the referendum, the Russian head of state was the Chairman of the Supreme Soviet of the Russian SFSR, elected by the Congress of People's Deputies of the Russian SFSR. With 71.4% of voters approving the proposal, the post of President of the Russian SFSR was introduced, and two months later Boris Yeltsin was elected as the first president.\n"}
{"id": "6997846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6997846", "title": "Scattered (rave)", "text": "Scattered (rave)\n\nScattered is a rave party based in Sydney, Australia. Founded in 1998 as a small 150 person event, it has grown over time to large-scale rave with happy hardcore, gabber and hard trance DJ's.\n\n\n Scooter\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41400018", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41400018", "title": "Scrabble Champions Tournament 2013", "text": "Scrabble Champions Tournament 2013\n\nThe World Scrabble Championship 2013, renamed by Mattel to Scrabble Champions Tournament, was held in Andel's Hotel, Prague, Czech Republic during December 2013.\n\nThe format was a 31-round preliminary tournament and best-of-five semi-finals and final. After defeating Dave Wiegand and Sammy Okosagah in the semi-finals respectively, Nigel Richards and Komol Panyasophonlert played a best-of-five final for the top prize and the title of World Scrabble Champion 2013.\n\nThe winner was Nigel Richards of New Zealand who defeated Komol Panyasophonlert of Thailand with three games to two in the best-of-five finals. Richards set the record for being the first three-time World Champion, the only person to have won the title more than once.\n\nIn a lucky start with two blanks, Komol started with a 70 point bingo POONAcs. Nigel replied immediately with a 94 point bingo DIATONIC, to set the tone for a high standard final. Komol had further bingos DOULEIAS, EXALTERS and LIGHTENS while Nigel had TERRAPIN. Komol won the first game 495 - 445.\n\nIn the second game, Nigel saved his X to hook his own word JEU to make a 73 point EXACT with JEUX. Nigel had bingos OUTDARED and NOISIER. Komol tried to pull back a large lead with a 107 point phony HALVINGS on the triple, but it was successfully challenged and Nigel won the game 471 - 319.\n\nIn the third game, Komol set the pace with a 66 point QAT. Komol had bingos AEROGEL, SEITENS and ORDINAnT while Nigel clawed back with yARNERS and a 75 point JACKS on the triple word. It was not enough and Komol won 471 - 433.\n\nIn the fourth game, Komol's first play was PARTAKeN for 68 and Nigel immediately replied with ADNATiON for 82, not having had a chance to use his blank for a bingo in his first turn. Nigel had further bingos INCENTS and PILOTAGE, a 63 point QI and SHOJIS for 72 while Komol tried to come back with SUETIER but to no avail. Nigel won 518 - 410, to pull the score back to 2-2 with one game remaining to decide the title.\n\nIn the final game, Komol had a great start with GAZUMPED for 96 but Nigel responded with BEJEWeL for 89 and AUrOREAN across six hooks for 98 to take a 100+ lead. Komol had a vowel heavy rack of AEEIIIT and exchanged AEIII. Nigel had bingo OILSEED and a 60 point GREX while Komol eventually found bingo VIREMIAS after successive bad draws. Nigel sealed the win with RATOONER with a final score of 581 - 421, thus clinching the title of World Champion for the third time, the only person to have won it more than once.\n"}
{"id": "10466534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10466534", "title": "Summer Sail", "text": "Summer Sail\n\nSummer Sail 2007 was a sailing festival sponsored by the American Sail Training Association (ASTA) as part of the larger ASTA Tall Ships Challenge 2007, which continued until September 2007. Well-known tall ships such as \"Prince William\", \"Bluenose II\" and \"A.J. Meerwald\" were expected to attend. The event, hosted by the Philadelphia Ship Preservation Guild, was expected to attract 10,000 visitors from all over the world. The event, with ship tours, live entertainment, music, crafts and food, was held June 19 to June 23, 2007, at Penn's Landing in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. The festival was part of ASTA's ongoing goal of educating the North American public in sailing techniques, Atlantic ocean conservation, and maritime history. Many of the member ships such as Philadelphia Ship Preservation Guild's barkentine \"Gazela\" and the privately owned Canadian barque \"Picton Castle\" sail all over the Middle Atlantic Ocean and the Caribbean Sea, giving tours and doing educational outreach whenever they are in port. \n\n"}
{"id": "16740653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16740653", "title": "Superior mesenteric artery syndrome", "text": "Superior mesenteric artery syndrome\n\nSuperior mesenteric artery (SMA) syndrome is a gastro-vascular disorder in which the third and final portion of the duodenum is compressed between the abdominal aorta (AA) and the overlying superior mesenteric artery. This rare, potentially life-threatening syndrome is typically caused by an angle of 6°–25° between the AA and the SMA, in comparison to the normal range of 38°–56°, due to a lack of retroperitoneal and visceral fat (mesenteric fat). In addition, the aortomesenteric distance is 2–8 millimeters, as opposed to the typical 10–20. However, a narrow SMA angle alone is not enough to make a diagnosis, because patients with a low BMI, most notably children, have been known to have a narrow SMA angle with no symptoms of SMA syndrome.\n\nSMA syndrome was first described in 1861 by Carl Freiherr von Rokitansky in victims at autopsy, but remained pathologically undefined until 1927 when Wilkie published the first comprehensive series of 75 patients. According to a 1956 study, only 0.3% of patients referred for an upper-gastrointestinal-tract barium studies fit this diagnosis, making it one of the rarest gastrointestinal disorders known to medical science. Recognition of SMA syndrome as a distinct clinical entity is controversial, due in part to its possible confusion with a number of other conditions, though it is now widely acknowledged.\n\nSMA syndrome is also known as Wilkie's syndrome, cast syndrome, mesenteric root syndrome, chronic duodenal ileus and intermittent arterio-mesenteric occlusion. \nIt is distinct from nutcracker syndrome, which is the entrapment of the left renal vein between the AA and the SMA, although it is possible to be diagnosed with both conditions.\n\nSigns and symptoms include early satiety, nausea, vomiting, extreme \"stabbing\" postprandial abdominal pain (due to both the duodenal compression and the compensatory reversed peristalsis), abdominal distention/distortion, burping (eructation), external hypersensitivity or tenderness of the abdominal area, reflux, and heartburn. In infants, feeding difficulties and poor weight gain are also frequent symptoms.\n\nIn some cases of SMA syndrome, severe malnutrition accompanying spontaneous wasting may occur. This, in turn, increases the duodenal compression, which worsens the underlying cause, creating a cycle of worsening symptoms.\n\n\"Food fear\" is a common development among patients with the chronic form of SMA syndrome. For many, symptoms are partially relieved when in the left lateral decubitus or knee-to-chest position, or in the prone (face down) position. A Hayes maneuver (pressure applied below the umbilicus in cephalad and dorsal direction) elevates the root of the SMA, also slightly easing the constriction. Symptoms can be aggravated when leaning to the right or taking a supine (face up) position.\n\nRetroperitoneal fat and lymphatic tissue normally serve as a cushion for the duodenum, protecting it from compression by the SMA. SMA syndrome is thus triggered by any condition involving an insubstantial cushion and narrow mesenteric angle. SMA syndrome can present in two forms: chronic/congenital or acute/induced.\n\nPatients with the chronic, congenital form of SMA syndrome predominantly have a lengthy or even lifelong history of abdominal complaints with intermittent exacerbations depending on the degree of duodenal compression. Risk factors include anatomic characteristics such as: aesthenic (very thin or \"lanky\") body build, an unusually high insertion of the duodenum at the ligament of Treitz, a particularly low origin of the SMA, or intestinal malrotation around an axis formed by the SMA. Predisposition is easily aggravated by any of the following: poor motility of the digestive tract, retroperitional tumors, loss of appetite, malabsorption, cachexia, exaggerated lumbar lordosis, visceroptosis, abdominal wall laxity, peritoneal adhesions, abdominal trauma, rapid linear adolescent growth spurt, weight loss, starvation, catabolic states (as with cancer and burns), and history of neurological injury.\n\nThe acute form of SMA syndrome develops rapidly after traumatic incidents that forcibly hyper-extend the SMA across the duodenum, inducing the obstruction, or sudden weight loss for any reason. Causes include prolonged supine bed rest, scoliosis surgery, left nephrectomy, ileo-anal pouch surgery.\n\nIt is important to note, however, that while SMA syndrome can mimic an eating disorder, distinguishing the two conditions is extremely important, as misdiagnosis in this situation can be dangerous.\n\nDiagnosis is very difficult, and usually one of exclusion. SMA syndrome is thus considered only after patients have undergone an extensive evaluation of their gastrointestinal tract including upper endoscopy, and evaluation for various malabsorptive, ulcerative and inflammatory instestinal conditions with a higher diagnostic frequency. Diagnosis may follow X-ray examination revealing duodenal dilation followed by abrupt constriction proximal to the overlying SMA, as well as a delay in transit of four to six hours through the gastroduodenal region. Standard diagnostic exams include abdominal and pelvic computed tomography (CT) scan with oral and IV contrast, upper gastrointestinal series (UGI), and, for equivocal cases, hypotonic duodenography. In addition, vascular imaging studies such as ultrasound and contrast angiography may be used to indicate increased bloodflow velocity through the SMA or a narrowed SMA angle.\n\nDespite multiple case reports, there has been controversy surrounding the diagnosis and even the existence of SMA syndrome since symptoms do not always correlate well with radiologic findings, and may not always improve following surgical correction. However, the reason for the persistence of gastrointestinal symptoms even after surgical correction in some cases has been traced to the remaining prominence of reversed peristalsis in contrast to direct peristalsis.\n\nSince females between the ages of 10 and 30 are most frequently afflicted, it is not uncommon for physicians to initially and incorrectly assume that emaciation is a choice of the patient instead of a consequence of SMA syndrome. Patients in the earlier stages of SMA syndrome often remain unaware that they are ill until substantial damage to their health is done, since they may attempt to adapt to the condition by gradually decreasing their food intake or naturally gravitating toward a lighter and more digestible diet.\n\nSMA syndrome can present in acute, acquired form (e.g. abruptly emerging within an inpatient stay following scoliosis surgery) as well as chronic form (i.e. developing throughout the course of a lifetime and advancing due to environmental triggers, life changes, or other illnesses). According to a number of recent sources, at least 70% of cases can typically be treated with medical treatment, while the rest require surgical treatment.\n\nMedical treatment is attempted first in many cases. In some cases, emergency surgery is necessary upon presentation. A six-week trial of medical treatment is recommended in pediatric cases. The goal of medical treatment for SMA syndrome is resolution of underlying conditions and weight gain. Medical treatment may involve nasogastric tube placement for duodenal and gastric decompression, mobilization into the prone or left lateral decubitus position, the reversal or removal of the precipitating factor with proper nutrition and replacement of fluid and electrolytes, either by surgically inserted jejunal feeding tube, nasogastric intubation, or peripherally inserted central catheter (PICC line) administering total parenteral nutrition (TPN). Pro-motility agents such as metoclopramide may also be beneficial. Symptoms may improve after restoration of weight, except when reversed peristalsis persists, or if regained fat refuses to accumulate within the mesenteric angle. Most patients seem to benefit from nutritional support with hyperalimentation irrespective of disease history.\n\nIf medical treatment fails, or is not feasible due to severe illness, surgical intervention is required. The most common operation for SMA syndrome, duodenojejunostomy, was first proposed in 1907 by Bloodgood. Performed as either an open surgery or laparoscopically, duodenojejunostomy involves the creation of an anastomosis between the duodenum and the jejunum, bypassing the compression caused by the AA and the SMA. Less common surgical treatments for SMA syndrome include Roux-en-Y duodenojejunostomy, gastrojejunostomy, anterior transposition of the third portion of the duodenum, intestinal derotation, division of the ligament of Treitz (Strong's operation), and transposition of the SMA. Both transposition of the SMA and lysis of the duodenal suspensory muscle have the advantage that they do not involve the creation of an intestinal anastomosis.\n\nThe possible persistence of symptoms after surgical bypass can be traced to the remaining prominence of reversed peristalsis in contrast to direct peristalsis, although the precipitating factor (the duodenal compression) has been bypassed or relieved. Reversed peristalsis has been shown to respond to duodenal circular drainage—a complex and invasive open surgical procedure originally implemented and performed in China.\n\nIn some cases, SMA syndrome may occur alongside a serious, life-threatening condition such as cancer or AIDS. Even in these cases, though, treatment of the SMA syndrome can lead to a reduction in symptoms and an increased quality of life.\n\nDelay in the diagnosis of SMA syndrome can result in fatal catabolysis (advanced malnutrition), dehydration, electrolyte abnormalities, hypokalemia, acute gastric rupture or intestinal perforation (from prolonged mesenteric ischemia), gastric distention, spontaneous upper gastrointestinal bleeding, hypovolemic shock, and aspiration pneumonia. \nA 1-in-3 mortality rate for Superior Mesenteric Artery syndrome has been quoted by a small number of sources. However, after extensive research, original data establishing this mortality rate has not been found, indicating that the number is likely to be unreliable. While research establishing an official mortality rate may not exist, two recent studies of SMA syndrome patients, one published in 2006 looking at 22 cases and one in 2012 looking at 80 cases, show mortality rates of 0% and 6.3%, respectively. According to the doctors in one of these studies, the expected outcome for SMA syndrome treatment is generally considered to be excellent.\n\nSMA syndrome is extremely rare, evident in only 0.3% of upper-gastrointestinal-tract barium studies. However, unfamiliarity with this condition in the medical community coupled with its intermittent and nonspecific symptomatology probably results in its underdiagnosis.\n\nAs the syndrome involves a lack of essential fat, more than half of those diagnosed are underweight, sometimes to the point of sickliness and emaciation. Females are impacted more often than males, and while the syndrome can occur at any age, it is most frequently diagnosed in early adulthood. The most common co-morbid conditions include mental and behavioral disorders including eating disorders and depression, infectious diseases including tuberculosis and acute gastroenteritis, and nervous system diseases including muscular dystrophy, Parkinson's disease, and cerebral palsy.\n\nAmerican actor, director, producer, and writer Christopher Reeve had the acute form of SMA syndrome as a result of spinal cord injury.\n\nIn 2017 the only US non-profit began distributing grants to those suffering from SMAS. They are registered to the IRS under the name Superior Mesenteric Artery Syndrome Research, Awareness and Support, but also work under the DBA of SMAS Patient Assistance. Their website is www.smasyndrome.org It is their goal to assist the uninsured and under-insured in the U.S. receive the medical help they need to treat their SMAS.\n"}
{"id": "32844505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32844505", "title": "Supertourism", "text": "Supertourism\n\nSupertourism or Tourism-1600 is a former touring car racing series held in Russia in 1995-2003.\n\nSeries starts in USSR in 1960s as A-1600. Base cars were VAZ-2101 and Lada Riva. In late 1980s-early 1990s it was the main touring series of USSR with base car Lada Samara. After USSR dissolution series was abandoned.\n\nIn 1995 series was relaunched as Tourism-1600 with status \"Championship of Russia\". Championship regulations was similar Super Touring but with 1600cc engines. In 1999 championship joined \"Lada\" and in 2001 \"IZh\" manufacturers teams. In 2001 series was renamed to Supertourism. But budget and technical race of leaders reduced number of teams. After 2003 season 2 lead teams (\"Lada\" and \"Lukoil Racing\") left championship. Series was closed.\n\n"}
{"id": "19141969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19141969", "title": "Terry Blair (serial killer)", "text": "Terry Blair (serial killer)\n\nTerry A. Blair (born September 16, 1961) is an American serial killer who raped and killed at least seven women in Kansas City, Missouri.\n\nTerry Blair was born into a family which would have many encounters with the criminal justice system. He was the fourth eldest of ten siblings, and was born to a mother who suffered from mental illness and had only finished the 9th grade. He has two sons, Terry Blair Jr and Marcel Johnson. He has two grandsons, Demarcus and Kemon Johnson. \n\nAngela Monroe, who was the mother of two of Blair's children (and pregnant at the time), was murdered in 1982. Blair was sentenced to 25 years imprisonment for this murder and was released on parole after serving 21 years. According to court records he was angry with Monroe for performing acts of prostitution.\n\nBelow is the list of victims Terry Blair was convicted of killing:\n\nBlair was also accused in the murders of Sandra Reed and Nellia Harris, an additional assault, and three other rapes, but these charges were later dropped.\nOn October 15, 2004, Terry Blair was charged with eight counts of first-degree murder, one count of first-degree assault, and three counts of forcible rape. Two of the murder charges (for Sandra Reed and Nellia Harris) were dropped. The rape and assault charges were also dropped.\n\nThe murders came to light when a caller informed 911 of dead bodies and claimed responsibility for the killings. The caller stated that the reason the individuals were killed was that they were prostitutes and therefore they were \"scum\". Investigators were not able to tie Blair to the phone, but established that the calls were made from near where he lived. Linguistics testimony was introduced, and the finder of fact came to believe the voice was Blair's.\n\nAlthough the evidence was mainly circumstantial, Blair's semen was found on one victim. Blair's defense was that this item of evidence only proved he had engaged in sex with the victim; the prosecution countered that since she hadn't tidied herself up afterwards, he must have been the last to see her alive. Because Blair continues to deny responsibility for the crimes, his motive cannot be understood beyond a compulsion to kill prostitutes.\n\nProsecutors agreed not to seek the death penalty in exchange for Blair waiving his right to a jury trial. Blair was found guilty by Judge John O'Malley on March 27, 2008, and he was sentenced to six life sentences with no possibility of parole for these six murders.\n\nBlair is currently housed in the Potosi Correctional Center in Mineral Point, Missouri.\n\nBlair appealed his conviction, but his appeal was denied by the Missouri Court of Appeals in August, 2009.\n\nBlair's seven homicides are featured in the episodes \"A Serial Killer Calls\" and \"The Killer Speaks\" of the television show \"The First 48\".\n"}
{"id": "51171707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51171707", "title": "The Americans Come (An Episode in France in the Year 1918)", "text": "The Americans Come (An Episode in France in the Year 1918)\n\n\"The Americans Come (An Episode in France in the Year 1918)\" is a World War I song written and composed by Fay Foster. The song was first published in 1918 by J. Fischer & Bro., in New York City. The sheet music cover depicts soldiers marching with a city and battleship on the left and a bombed city on the right.\n\nThe sheet music can be found at the Pritzker Military Museum & Library.\n\nBibliography\n"}
{"id": "19068668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19068668", "title": "Theatre Fest", "text": "Theatre Fest\n\nThe Theatre Fest is a festival that takes place every April in the Macedonian National Theatre in Skopje, Republic of Macedonia. It hosts Macedonian and foreign theatres and lasts five days.\n\n"}
{"id": "39107829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39107829", "title": "Tony West (attorney)", "text": "Tony West (attorney)\n\nTony West (born August 12, 1965) is an American lawyer who currently serves as general counsel at Uber.\n\nPrior to joining Uber, West served as executive vice president of government affairs, general counsel, and corporate secretary for PepsiCo. He also served as president of the PepsiCo Foundation. In addition to supporting the growth and sustainability of PepsiCo's global business for its shareholders, West focused on promoting an ethical and inclusive culture at PepsiCo. He emphasized that a company must start with an ethical culture to be a long-term, sustainable company. During his tenure, PepsiCo continued to be recognized as one of the world's most ethical companies, increased diversity in both its Office of General Counsel and among its suppliers of outside legal services, and signed both the White House Fair Chance Business Pledge and the White House Equal Pay Pledge.\n\nWest previously served as the Associate Attorney General of the United States, the third highest-ranking official in the United States Department of Justice; and Assistant Attorney General of the Civil Division, the largest litigating division in the Department of Justice. In September 2014, when Attorney General Eric Holder announced his intention to step down, West was speculated as being a potential successor as the next United States Attorney General.\n\nDuring his time at the department, West played an integral role in the Obama administration's decision to stop defending the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA) after concluding that the statute was unconstitutional.\n\nWest also secured nearly $37 billion for American consumers and investors harmed by the financial crisis and elevated the department's efforts to improve public safety in Indian country, including the landmark tribal provisions in the 2013 reauthorization of the Violence Against Women Act (VAWA). On August 21, 2014, West secured a $16.65 billion settlement with Bank of America – the largest settlement with a single entity in American history – to resolve federal and state claims against Bank of America and its former and current subsidiaries, including Countrywide Financial Corporation and Merrill Lynch.\n\nOn November 30, 2016, Senator-elect Kamala Harris announced that West, her brother-in-law, would co-chair her transition team.\n\nWest was born in San Francisco, California, to Franklin and Peggy West. His father, the first person in his family to attend college, was born and raised in Georgia and worked for IBM while his mother, who was a teacher, was born and raised in Alabama. West was raised in San Jose, California, where he lived with his two younger sisters, Pamela and Patricia. He attended Bellarmine College Preparatory, a Catholic, all-male, private secondary school, where he served as freshman class president, before graduating in 1983.\n\nWest received his Bachelor of Arts in government from Harvard University in 1987, where he served as publisher of the Harvard Political Review. In 1988, West began volunteering and working on political campaigns, engaging in Democratic political causes, such as working as the chief of staff to the Boston, Massachusetts treasurer of Michael Dukakis's presidential campaign. West also served as a finance director to the Democratic Governors Association, until 1989. He received his Juris Doctor from Stanford Law School in 1992, where he served as the President of the Stanford Law Review. While attending Stanford, he worked as a summer intern for Swidler Berlin Shereff Friedman in 1990. He also worked as a summer intern for Tuttle & Taylor, and Morrison & Foerster in 1991.\n\nAfter graduating, West continued his work in Democratic politics, working as chief of staff to the finance chair of the California Democratic Party, while also working in private practice as an associate at the Bingham McCutchen San Jose office, from 1992 to 1993. In 1993, he joined the State Bar of California, and was admitted to the Superior Court of California and the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California.\n\nFrom 1999 to 2001, he was a Special Assistant Attorney General in the Office of the California Attorney General, under Bill Lockyer. From 2001 to 2009, he was a litigation partner at Morrison & Foerster LLP in San Francisco. He also served as the California co-chairman of Barack Obama's 2008 presidential campaign.\n\nWest began his career at the Justice Department when he joined the Clinton administration in 1993, as a Special Assistant under Philip Heymann, the Deputy Attorney General of the United States Department of Justice, until 1994, when he was appointed as an Assistant United States Attorney (AUSA) for the Northern District of California. As an Assistant U.S. Attorney, West prosecuted child sexual exploitation, fraud, narcotics distribution, interstate theft, and high tech crime.\n\nIn 2009, West returned to the Justice Department when President Obama nominated him to serve as Assistant Attorney General of the Department of Justice Civil Division.\n\nWest led the Obama Administration's review of the constitutionality of the Defense of Marriage Act (DOMA), which ultimately resulted in President Obama's and Attorney General Holder's decision to stop defending DOMA and paved the way for the Supreme Court's ruling that the Constitution guarantees the right to same-sex marriage.\n\nIn addition to focusing on traditional areas of the Civil Division's work, West helped the department further its most important priority – protecting national security. He also bolstered the division's affirmative civil enforcement efforts in areas such as health care fraud, mortgage fraud, and procurement fraud to recover taxpayer money lost to fraud and abuse, resulting in unprecedented monetary recoveries. During his tenure at the helm of the Civil Division, the Division recovered more than $8.8 billion in taxpayer money under the False Claims Act—the largest three-year total in history at the time of West's departure from the Division. On the consumer protection front, West oversaw cases that resulted in more than 115 criminal convictions, as well as recoveries of more than $3.5 billion, during his three-year tenure.\n\nWest was personally involved in the department's preemption lawsuits challenging immigration laws passed in Arizona, Alabama, South Carolina, and Utah. The department's core arguments—that each of the states' immigration laws is constitutionally preempted, because it is the federal government and not the states that is vested with the primary authority and the primary responsibility in immigration matters—ultimately prevailed in the Supreme Court.\n\nBeginning on March 9, 2012, West served as the Acting Associate Attorney General until the U.S. Senate confirmed West to be Associate Attorney General in a 98-1 vote on July 25, 2013. In 2014, Mr. West was awarded the department's highest award, the Edmund J. Randolph Award. The Award, named for the first Attorney General of the United States, appointed by President George Washington, recognizes outstanding contributions to the accomplishments of the department's mission.\n\nAs Associate Attorney General, West led the department’s efforts to combat financial fraud, securing record-breaking civil penalties and large global civil settlements against financial institutions in connection with their roles in precipitating the worst financial crisis since the Great Depression. These include two of the largest civil resolutions against a single entity in American history: Bank of America ($16.65 billion) and JPMorgan ($13 billion). In total, West’s efforts recovered nearly $37 billion for American consumers and investors harmed by the financial crisis. With each settlement, along with landmark monetary penalties, Mr. West has insisted on a robust statement of facts outlining each institution’s conduct, as well as meaningful consumer relief to assist homeowners across the country who are still struggling to recover from the financial crisis.\n\nAdditionally, Mr. West led the department’s investigation and filing of a civil lawsuit against the credit rating agency Standard & Poor’s Rating Services for allegedly engaging in a scheme to defraud investors in structured financial products, resulting in the loss of billions of dollars by investors, many of whom are federally-insured financial institutions. The investigation and lawsuit involved collaboration with several state attorneys general offices, a number of which also filed civil fraud lawsuits against S&P alleging similar misconduct in the rating of structured financial products.\n\nAs Associate Attorney General, West continued his commitment to upholding the civil and constitutional rights of all Americans, particularly in the areas of constitutional policing, indigent defense, and voting rights.\n\nWest led the department’s engagement with state, local, and tribal law enforcement on variety of issues, particularly strengthening the relationship between law enforcement and communities of color. Through the Community Oriented Policing Services (COPS) Office, Mr. West promoted collaborative reform efforts that allowed the Department to work with local law enforcement who were committed to instituting constitutional policing policies and procedures.\n\nWest also oversaw constitutional policing enforcement actions by the Civil Rights Division and personally led the department’s negotiations with Puerto Rico to reach a historic agreement that requires the Commonwealth’s police department to implement and sustain a wide-range of constitutional policies and procedures, including those that address use of force, equal protection and non-discrimination, and community engagement.\n\nWest also led the department’s commitment to supporting the provision of indigent legal defense. In June 2014, West represented the United States at the U.N.’s International Conference on Access to Legal Aid in the Criminal Justice Systems in South Africa.\n\nIn 2013, West oversaw the department’s unprecedented filing of a statement of interest in Wilbur v. City of Mount Vernon (WD Wash.), a class action lawsuit alleging that accused defendants were systemically denied effective assistance of counsel. Without taking a position on the merits of the case, the filing requested that if the court found constitutional violations, it consider workload controls for public defenders and appointment of an independent monitor to ensure compliance. The plaintiffs in the case prevailed on the merits and the court required defendants to hire a part-time public defender supervisor to monitor and report the defendants’ delivery of indigent defense representation.\n\nWest was also one of the department's primary spokespersons on voting rights, overseeing the Civil Rights Division's work to protect access to the ballot box. In 2014, in an address to the Progressive National Baptist Convention, Mr. West said, \"Our message is unequivocal: we will use every legal tool that remains available to us, against any jurisdiction that seeks to hinder eligible citizens’ full and free right to vote. When we see something that causes us concern, we won't hesitate to make it plain.\"\n\nIn June 2014, West detailed Department plans to consult with tribes on a recommendation to Congress that would require election officials whose territory includes part of an Indian reservation or Alaska Native village to ensure at least one polling place is located in an area selected by the tribal government. \"[I]t is a tragic irony that in this country—history's greatest democratic experiment—it is First Americans who, for a variety of reasons, have, for decades, too often been deprived the right vote,\" West said in discussing the proposal. \"Standing by as Native voices, for whatever reason, are shut out of the democratic process is not an option.\"\n\nWest championed tribal sovereignty and improved the federal government’s relationship with Native American communities through meaningful and frequent engagement, particularly in the areas of public safety, intimate partner violence, children's exposure to violence in Indian country, and voting rights.\n\nWith his leadership and efforts to raise awareness of about the alarmingly high rate of violence against women in Indian country, the Department secured passage of tribal provisions in the Violence Against Women Reauthorization Act of 2013, allowing tribes—for the first time in decades—to prosecute non-Indian perpetrators of domestic violence in Indian country. West oversaw the extensive but expedited consultation with tribes to implement the Pilot Project, which allowed tribes to exercise the special domestic violence criminal jurisdiction over non-Indians ahead of the law’s March 2015 effective date. West authorized three tribes – the Pascua Yaqui Tribe of Arizona, the Tulalip Tribes of Washington, and the Confederated Tribes of the Umatilla Indian Reservation – to become the first tribes in the country to exercise the new jurisdiction.\n\nMr. West also oversaw the creation and work of the Attorney General’s Task Force on American Indian/Alaska Native Children Exposed to Violence, which included an Advisory Committee – chaired by Senator Byron Dorgan—of non-federal experts and an interagency Federal Working Group of high-level federal officials.\n\nOn October 7, 2014, PepsiCo, Inc. announced that West had joined the company as executive vice president of government affairs, general counsel and corporate secretary, effective November 24, 2014. West succeeded Larry Thompson, who retired after almost a decade of service. West was responsible for PepsiCo's worldwide legal function and government affairs organization, as well as the company's global compliance function and the PepsiCo Foundation. He reported to PepsiCo Chairman and CEO Indra Nooyi.\n\nWhile at PepsiCo, West elevated the Legal Department's commitment to diversity in the legal profession. In 2016, West launched the Larry Thompson Fellowship Program, a summer program for 1Ls dedicated to diversifying the profession. West also committed PepsiCo to implementing ABA Resolution 113, requiring its outside counsel to submit the ABA's Model Survey on diversity, and using the diversity metrics in the surveys as a factor when selecting outside counsel. In 2017, PepsiCo used the diversity metrics collected in the ABA survey to generate a diversity index score and recognize firms with scores above the median and demonstrated an exceptional commitment to diversity through qualitative efforts. PepsiCo's outside counsel selection policy also requires its lawyers to obtain approval from the PepsiCo General Counsel before engaging a firm with a below-median diversity index score.\n\nWest also prioritized promoting an ethical culture at PepsiCo, which has named as one of the World's Most Ethical Companies by Ethisphere every year since the list's inception in 2007. Asked why an ethical culture is important at PepsiCo, West responded, \"[C]orporations increasingly are being looked to by society to help resolve large problems. Big problems. Part of that is not just because companies have resources, because companies operate in societies, operate in communities, not as a matter of right, but because they earn a social license in which to operate on. Earning that social license to operate is something that doesn’t happen automatically. Companies have to actually gain the trust of communities. They have to make sure they are bringing value to the social ecosystem in which they’re operating, and that can only happen if they are operating with a core of sustainable, ethical business practices.\"\n\nIn October 2017, West announced that he was leaving PepsiCo to take a position as General Counsel at Uber. This announcement shortly followed the completion of an investigation into allegations of sexual harassment and discrimination at Uber by former U.S. Attorney General Eric Holder.\n\nIn 1998, West ran for a seat on the San Jose City Council. In the primary, West's main challenger was Cindy Chavez, the staff director of Working Partnerships USA. He came in second to Chavez in the June 2 primary, with 41.2% of the vote. With help from many labor groups and organizations backing Chavez's campaign, West was ultimately defeated, receiving 48% of the vote in the general election.\n\nWest also ran for the California State Assembly, for the 23rd district, in 2000. After incumbent Mike Honda ran for the U.S. House of Representatives, leaving a vacancy, West was one of six Democrats to run for the open seat. He was defeated in the primary by San Jose City Councilman Manny Diaz, receiving 38% of the total votes cast.\n\nWest is married to Maya Harris, MSNBC political analyst and former Senior Policy Adviser to Hillary Clinton.\n\n"}
{"id": "1172110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1172110", "title": "Tyagaraja Aradhana", "text": "Tyagaraja Aradhana\n\nTyagaraja Aradhana is the annual \"aradhana\" (a Sanskrit term meaning act of glorifying God or a person) of Telugu saint composer Tyagaraja. The festival is observed in the states of Andhra Pradesh and Tamil Nadu, primarily in Tiruvaiyaru, the place where Tyagaraja attained Samadhi. The aradhana is observed on Pushya Bahula Panchami day when the saint attained samadhi, where the musicians will render the saint's Pancharatna Kritis.\n\nThe \"aradhana\" (Ceremony of Adoration) is held every year on the anniversary of the demise of the saint. This is on Pushya Bahula Panchami day (the fifth day of the waning moon in the Hindu lunar month of \"Pushya\"). The \"Aradhana\" is conducted by the Sri Thyagabrahma Mahotsava Sabha and is held in the precincts of the \"samadhi\" (memorial) of the saint located at Thiruvaiyaru village, Thanjavur district, Tamil Nadu, India.\n\nThe Aradhana in its present format is not even a hundred years old. Tyagaraja died in 1847. A few days before his death, he had formally renounced everything and become a sanyasi. When he passed on, his mortal remains were buried on the banks of the river Kaveri and a small memorial was built at the site. His disciples returned to their respective villages and observed his death anniversary at their own homes. The memorial soon fell into neglect and had become quite dilapidated by 1903, when two of the last surviving students to have been taught by Tyagaraja happened to make a nostalgic visit to the site. These were the elderly and eminent musicians Umayalpuram Krishna Bhagavatar and Sundara Bhagavatar. They were dismayed by the neglect and dilapidation; indeed, they had to search for the memorial in the wild foliage of the riverbank. They arranged for the renovation of the \"samadhi\" and decided to commemorate the \"tithi\" or death anniversary of their \"guru\" every year at the Samadhi itself.\n\nFrom the following year, efforts were made by musical stalwarts to observe the death anniversary regularly at Tiruvayyaru, and to use the occasion as an opportunity for his followers to converge and interact with each other. In 1905, a lavish ceremony, complete with feeding of the poor and worship at the memorial as per Vedic tenets, was celebrated. While Umayalpuram Krishna Bhagavatar and Sundara Bhagavatar were the moving force behind the renovations and celebrations, the brothers Tillaisthanam Narasimha Bhagavatar and Tillaisthanam Panju Bhagavatar were the main financiers and organizers. By the following year, the brothers had fallen out with each other. From 1906 onwards, each began conducting a parallel Aradhana. Various musicians also began aligned themselves with one or the other brother and two rival factions came into being. The group (and the \"aradhana\" celebration) conducted by Narasimha Bhagavatar came to be called the \"Periya Katchi\" (\"senior party,\" since he was the elder) and that of Panju Bhat became known as the \"Chinna Katchi.\" With the passing of the Tillaisthanam brothers, the Periya Katchi came under the control of the ace violinist Malaikottai Govindasami Pillai, and the Chinna Katchi under that of Soolamangalam Vaidyanatha Bhagavatar, the noted Harikatha exponent. Gradually, a convention emerged whereby the Chinna Katchi's celebrations began five days before the Aradhana and concluded on the Aradhana day, while the Periya Katchi's celebration began on Aradhana day and continued for four days after that. Both groups organised music performances and feeding of the poor and so the public was the real beneficiary during the nine days. On one point, both groups were united. They did not allow \"performing women,\" a euphemism for women of ill repute, to perform during the Aradhana. In those days, no 'decent' woman ever sang or danced in public and the profession of entertainment was strictly the domain of the courtesan, who was often a \"devadasi\" or temple performer. Another point in common between the two groups was that they did not permit nadaswaram performances.\n\nBangalore Nagarathnamma was precisely such a temple performer, and one of the most famous professional concert artistes of her era. Nagarathnamma, who was then residing in Madras, was an ardent devotee of Tyagaraja and an aficionado of his music. Indeed, the soulful rendition of his \"kritis\" had been the mainstay of her career throughout her life, and she considered that she owed her considerable wealth to his grace. In 1921, the aged and childless lady decided to dedicate her life's earnings to preserving Tyagaraja's legacy and perpetuating his memory. In 1925, she began the construction of a temple enclosing the memorial. According to some sources, she purchased the land on which the grave stood, whereas according to other sources, that land was \"panchayat\" riverside land (village common land), and her construction was illegal, but tolerated by local residents due to its pious intentions. Nagarathnamma also had an idol of Tyagaraja sculpted and installed in front of the memorial. The consecration of the temple took place in early 1926. The two rival groups, while not interfering with all this, refused to let Nagarathnamma perform her mucic, or even \"Harikatha,\" within the temple which she herself had had constructed. They cited several instances from Tyagaraja's songs where he had complained about women in general.\n\nUndeterred, Nagarathnammal began a third front which conducted its own music programs at the rear of the shrine. This third event featured many women artistes, and perhaps for that very reason, it began eating into the public popularity of the events hosted by the two Katchis. The doughty lady also filed suits in the local courts demanding the prevention of the Katchis from entering the temple, claiming that it belonged to her by right. She lost the case, but the hours of worship were laid down by the courts, dividing the Aradhana day equally between the two Katchis and her own group.\n\nMatters continued this way till 1940, when SY Krishnaswami, ICS, convinced the groups to unite and it was in 1941 that the Aradhana as we know it was first conducted. Harikesanallur Muthiah Bhagavatar selected the five pancharatnas as being best suited for group rendering, so that a common homage by all musicians became possible. This idea was adopted and the choral rendition of the five songs was made an integral feature of the Aradhana. Before 1941, the three separate events had all been in the nature of music festivals, with no restriction regarding which of Thyagaraja's songs could be performed. It was only in 1941, when the three events were merged into one, that the convention of group singing of the five \"pancharatna kritis\" was decided upon.\n\nBangalore Nagarathnammal spent the rest of her days in Tiruvayyaru and bequeathed all her wealth to the Tyagaraja memorial, with the stipulation that women be allowed to pay their homage without any hindrance. When she died in 1952, she was buried close to Tyagaraja's memorial and a statue was erected on the spot. The statue directly gazes on Tyagaraja's memorial.\n\nA huge complex is now under construction at Thiruvaiyaru at this site to accommodate the large audience that come to the concert in ever-increasing numbers every year.\n\n2016 – 169th aradhana festival – 24 to 28 January 2016. This year annual aradhana festival organised by Sri Thyagabrahma Mahotsava Sabha commenced at Thiruvaiyaru on Sunday 24 January 2016.\nInaugurating the festival, ‘Nalli’ Kuppuswami Chetti, president of Sri Krishna Gana Sabha, paid rich tributes to Bangalore Nagarathnamma Ammal who was instrumental in setting up the ‘adhishtanam’ for Sadguru Tyagabrahmmam.\nCollector N. Subbaiyan said music played a crucial role in promoting universal peace and harmony. G. Rangasamy Moopanar, president of the Sabha, and G.K. Vasan, chairman of the trust, spoke.\n\n2015 – 168th aradhana festival – 6 to 10 January 2015. The inauguration of the festival at Thiruvaiyaru was inaugurated on 6 January 2015 by Justice V. Ramasubramanian, Madras High Court judge, by lighting lamp. Sri Thyagabrahma Mahotsava Sabha chairman G.K. Vasan and sabha president G. Rangasamy Moopanar accompanied him\n\n2014 – 167th aradhana festival \n\n2013 – 166th aradhana festival – 27 to 31 January 2013.\n\n2012 – 165th aradhana festival.\n\n2011 – 164th aradhana festival.\n\nIn the United States, the Cleveland Thyagaraja Festival is held in Cleveland, Ohio every year around Easter. Hundreds of Carnatic musicians preside over, and perform in the festival.\n\nIn the small pearl of the Indian Ocean, Mauritius Island, Tyagaraja Aradhana is celebrated with great devotion by the Vyasha Dhalia Ashram. Abhishekam is done for shri Rama in the morning and followed by the Kritis of Tyagaraja Swami accompanied by instruments such as mridangam, morsing, ghatam, khanjira, veena, violin and the flute.\n\nIn Lagos, Nigeria, from the year 2007 every February, Tyagaraja Aradhana is being celebrated devotionally by Chinmaya Mission. Children trained by experienced Gurus along with music instruments rendering sampradaya kirthanas of the compositions of Saint Tyagaraja in this function.\n\n"}
