{"id": "4830094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4830094", "title": "70/20/10 Model (Learning and Development)", "text": "70/20/10 Model (Learning and Development)\n\nThe 70:20:10 Model for Learning and Development (also written as 70-20-10 or 70/20/10) is a learning and development model that corresponds to a proportional breakdown of how people learn effectively; based on a survey asking nearly 200 executives to self-report how they believed they learned.\n\nIn this survey respondents reported the following learning tendencies:\n\nLombardo and Eichinger expressed their rationale behind the 70:20:10 model this way in \"The Career Architect Development Planner\":\n\n\"“Development generally begins with a realization of current or future need and the motivation to do something about it. This might come from feedback, a mistake, watching other people’s reactions, failing or not being up to a task – in other words, from experience. The odds are that development will be about 70% from on-the-job experiences - working on tasks and problems; about 20% from feedback and working around good and bad examples of the need; and 10% from courses and reading.”\"\n\nCriticisms of the hypothesis include:\n"}
{"id": "26673495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26673495", "title": "Additional Mathematics", "text": "Additional Mathematics\n\nAdditional Mathematics is a UK qualification pilot scheme in its final year of implementation for a GCSE level qualification in mathematics which is applied to a range of problems set out in a different format to the standard Mathematics GCSE. This has been formed because of the standard secondary schools in England offering two GCSE qualifications in Science and English but only one in Mathematics and as Mathematics is also a core subject it needs to be viewed on the same level as the other two core subjects (Science and English.)\n\nIn Singapore, Additional Mathematics is an optional subject offered to pupils in Secondary School who have an aptitude in Mathematics and are in Normal (Academic) stream or Express stream. The syllabus covered is slightly more in depth as compared to Mathematics. Additional Mathematics is also a prerequisite for students who are intending to offer H2 Mathematics and H2 Further Mathematics at A-level if they choose to enter a Junior college after Secondary School. Students without Additional Mathematics at the 'O' level will usually offer H1 Mathematics instead. \n\nFormat for Singapore-Cambridge General Certificate Education (GCE) Ordinary Level (Express stream Additional Mathematics paper) is as follows:\n\nPaper 1 (Duration 2 Hours)\nA variety of compulsory questions are being set, with a mark weighting from 1 Mark to maximum mark of 7. The total weighting of the paper is 80 marks and constitutes to 44% of the O Level Additional Mathematics grade. \n\nPaper 2 (Duration 2 Hours 30 Minutes)\nA variety of compulsory questions are set. One of the questions would be a plotting question where one is required to plot a given graph on to a piece of graph paper. This can be either tested in Paper 1 or Paper 2. The total weighting of the paper is 100 marks and constitutes to 56% of the O Level Additional Mathematics grade.\n\nA variety of topics are tested - Differentiation, Integration, Advanced Trigonometry, Binomial Expansion, Surds, Indices, Plane Geometry and many more.\n\nIn Northern Ireland, Additional Mathematics was offered as a GCSE subject by the local examination board, CCEA. There were two examination papers: one which tested topics in Pure Mathematics and one which tested topics in Mechanics and Statistics. It was discontinued in 2014 and replaced with GCSE Further Mathematics.\n\nStarting from 2012, Edexcel and AQA have started a new course, now that Additional Maths has been abolished, which is an IGCSE in Further Maths. Edexcel and AQA both offer completely different courses, Edexcel including the calculation of solids formed through integration, AQA not touching on integration. AQA's syllabus mainly offers further algebra, with the factor theorem and more complex algebra such as algebraic fractions as well as differentiation up to and including the calculation of normals to a curve. AQA's syllabus also includes a lot of matrices work, which is an AS Further Mathematics topic. AQA's syllabus is much more famous than Edexcel's, mainly for its controversial decision to award an A* with Distinction(A^), a grade higher than the maximum possible grade in any Level 2 qualification; it is known colloquially as a Super A* or A**.\n\nIn Malaysia, Additional Mathematics is offered as an elective to upper secondary students studying within the public education system. This subject is included in the Sijil Pelajaran Malaysia examination.\nScience stream students are required to apply Additional Mathematics as one of the subjects in the Sijil Pelajaran Malaysia examination. Additional Mathematics is an optional subject for students who are from arts or commerce streams. Additional Mathematics in Malaysia which is commonly known as Add Maths covers various topics including function, differentiation, integration, indices and logarithms, statistics, index numbers, trigonometric functions, solution of triangles, linear programming, permutations and combinations, linear law, vectors, quadratic equation and function, simultaneous equation, geometry coordinate, circular measure, progression, probability and probability distribution, and motion along a straight line.\n\nFormat for Additional Mathematics Exam based on the Malaysia Certificate of Education is as follows:\n\nPaper 1 (Duration 2 Hours) A total of 25 questions tested based on the student's knowledge to grasp on the concepts and formulas learned during their 2 years of learning. Each questions contains at least 2 subsets of questions with marks ranging from 2 - 5 marks.The total weighting of the paper is 80 marks and constitutes to 44% of the grade. \n\nPaper 2 (Duration 2 hours 30 minutes) Questions are categorised into 3 sections: A, B and C. Section A contains 6 questions that are compulsory to be answered. Section B contains 5 questions which students are given the choice to answer 4 questions out of 5 of them. Section C contains 4 questions where students are only required to answer 2 out of 4 of the given questions. This paper tests the student's ability to apply various concepts and formulas in real-life situations.The total weighting of the paper is 100 marks and constitutes to 56% of the grade.\n\nIn Mauritius, Additional Mathematics, more commonly referred to as Add Maths, is offered in secondary school as an optional subject in the Arts Streams and it is a compulsory subject in the Science, Technical and Economics Stream. This subject is included in the University of Cambridge International Examinations.\nTopics that are covered in the Additional Mathematics syllabus include functions, quadratic equations, differentiation and integration (calculus).\n\nIn Hong Kong, the syllabus of HKCEE additional mathematics covered two main topics, algebra and calculus. In algebra, some topics are mathematical induction, binomial theorem, trigonometry, inequalities. In calculus, differentiation, integration, and 2D-vectors. After the replacement of the new syllabus, i.e. the module 2 of mathematics, some new topics are added: matrix and determinant, and an introduction to the Euler's number.\n"}
{"id": "2331138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2331138", "title": "Alex Padilla", "text": "Alex Padilla\n\nAlejandro Padilla (born March 22, 1973) is an American politician, Democratic Party activist, engineer, and civil servant. He has served as the Secretary of State of California since winning the general election on November 5, 2014 against Republican Pete Peterson, with approximately 54% of the vote.\n\nHe served in the California State Senate, representing the 20th District after his election to the position in November 2006. Prior to serving in the Senate he served 7½ years on the Los Angeles City Council representing the 7th District. First elected in 1999, he was elected council president in July 2001 and remained president through December 31, 2005.\n\nPadilla is one of three children of Santos and Lupe Padilla, both of whom emigrated from Mexico before meeting and marrying in Los Angeles.\n\nPadilla grew up in the community of Pacoima in Los Angeles and is a graduate of San Fernando High School in the northeast San Fernando Valley. He earned a degree in mechanical engineering from the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1994. After graduation, he moved back to Pacoima and briefly worked as an engineer for Hughes Aircraft, where he wrote software for satellite systems.\n\nPadilla is a former member of the governing board of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the President of the National Association of Latino Elected and Appointed Officials (NALEO) which has a membership of more than 6,000 Latino officials in the United States. He has served as president of the League of California Cities and was its youngest-ever president and the first Latino to lead the league. He serves as chair of the Los Angeles Leadership Council for the American Diabetes Association. Padilla had been a staff member to United States Senator Dianne Feinstein and California State Assembly member Tony Cardenas.\n\nOn July 1, 1999 at the age of 26, Padilla was sworn in as a member of the Los Angeles City Council. Two years later his council colleagues elected him council president. Padilla was the first Latino and the youngest person elected president of the Los Angeles City Council.\n\nPadilla was elected to the State Senate in 2006 and re-elected in 2010, with nearly 70% of the vote. He served as a member of the Appropriations Committee, Business and Professions and Economic Development Committee, Governmental Organization Committee, Labor and Industrial Relations Committee, and chairs the Select Committee on Science, Innovation and Public Policy. He left office on November 30, 2014, after two terms in the body.\n\nCalifornia places a two-term limit on its constitutional officers, and incumbent Debra Bowen, a fellow Democrat, was unable to run for reelection to the position of Secretary of State, the state's top elections official. On April 11, 2013, Alex Padilla, then a term limited State Senator, announced his intention to run for the position. He was expected to face an intraparty battle with fellow Democrat Leland Yee, but Yee's arrest caused him to abandon the race. Padilla won the election in November against Republican Pete Peterson, who was endorsed by the Los Angeles Times, with 53.6% of the vote.\n\n"}
{"id": "4553512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4553512", "title": "American Physical Education Association", "text": "American Physical Education Association\n\nThe American Physical Education Association (APEA), previously known as American Association for the Advancement of Physical Education, is an American association, founded in 1885 to support gymnastics education. The name was changed in 1903, to the American Physical Education Association (APEA). And in 1917, it created one of its most influential groups, the \"Committee on Women's Athletics\". The APEA joined forces, becoming part of the NEA's Department of School Health and Physical Education in 1937, and then forming the \"Division of Recreation\" in 1938.\n"}
{"id": "42637589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42637589", "title": "Anton Milenin", "text": "Anton Milenin\n\nAnton Michailovič Milenin (Russian: Антон Миленин; Moscow, April 7, 1969) is a Russian theatre actor, director and teacher who has been working in Italy and Russia for more than fifteen years.\n\nBorn and raised in Moscow, Milenin started his theatrical studies at the Moscow Art Theatre (MXAT) with Alexander Kalyagin and .\n\nAfter three years, he changed abruptly his artistic path and joined the Russian Academy of Theatre Arts (GITIS) where he graduated twice: in 1991 as actor with and , and in 1997 as director under the instruction of Vassilij Ivanic Skorik.\n\nHis acting debut was in 1991 at MXAT, playing with Innokenty Smoktunovsky, Stanislav Lyubshin and .\n\nIn 1995 he receives the first prize at the Lithuanian Festival in Daugavpils for his direction of Diderot's \"Jacques the Fatalist\". In 1996 he staged at the Russian Academy of Theatre Arts (GITIS), during Sergej Isaiev's direction,\"The Cherry Orchard\" and Three Sisters by Anton Chekhov\n\nIn 1997 he was invited to Europe, and worked at the project \"The Gambler by Dostoevsky\" at the AKT-ZENT Creative Center headed by Jurij Alschitz in Berlin.\n\nThe next year he participated at the with , directing \"Heart Piece\" by Heiner Müller.\nAs a visiting professor, he directed in 2001 the graduating students of School of Dramatic Arts Paolo Grassi in Milan staging Romeo and Juliet by William Shakespeare.\n\nWith 's Company, he collaborated in \"Fattore K\" and \"Progetto Cechov\", directing Chekhov's \"Uncle Vanya\" and \"The Seagull\" at the Teatro Argentina in Rome. The production, in which the main character of Kostja Treplev was played by a young Filippo Timi at the beginning of his career, proved to be a turning-point experience for all actors involved.\n\nHe is then among the artists invited at the and at the , where he directs \"\" by Bernard-Marie Koltès, \"The Gamblers\" by Nikolai Gogol and conducts the masterclass \"All’uscita del teatro dopo la rappresentazione di una nuova commedia\", also inspired by Gogol's work. His study of Koltès' plays continues in 2004 with \"Roberto Zucco\" staged in Rome at the Teatro Rialto Santambrogio and at Metateatro - Casa delle Culture and in Rennes at the Dromesko.\n\nNel 2005 he wins the first prize at the Russian Festival of Young Dramaturgy in Tarusa directing K. Tcakhova's \"The Blu snake\".\nIn 2007, he is invited at the XIV in Neaples where he mastered the workshop \"Recitare con il personaggio\" (Acting with the character) on Plato's \"Republic\" \n\nSapienza University of Rome and the Accademia Nazionale d'Arte Drammatica Silvio D'Amico (Silvio d'Amico National Academy of Dramatic Arts) invited Milenin and Nikolaj Skorik between 2006 and 2007 in the series of masterclasses and conferences about Konstantin Stanislavski and Vsevolod Meyerhold \"Le due ali del Gabbiano\" (the two wings of the Seagull)\nReturning to Russia in 2008, he worked at the , founded and directed by Anatoly Vasiliev, leading an acting masterclass on Tarkovsky's films \"Stalker\" and \"Nostalghia\".\n\nIn the same year, he is the founder of Kostja Treplev Theatre, currently based in Naples. The Company has staged under his artistic direction \"Thus Spoke Oscar Wilde\" and \"Napolitica\", from Oscar Wilde's The Young King, The Happy Prince and other tales; \"Zed - Philosophy with the Whip\", from Nietzsche's, Plato's, Berdyaev's, Celentano's, Theophanes's and others' theories on the nature of love; a new production of Koltès' s \"Roberto Zucco\".\n\n"}
{"id": "46497625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46497625", "title": "Arushi Nishank", "text": "Arushi Nishank\n\nArushi Nishank (born 17 September 1986), often credited as Arushi Pokhriyal, is an internationally acclaimed Indian classical Kathak danseuse, entrepreneur, Film Producer and a poetess. She is the disciple of Pt Birju Maharaj and Dr Poornima Pandey. She is an kathak empanelled artist of Indian Council for Cultural Relations ICCR. She is also an graded artist for Doordarshan, a division of Prasar Bharati. \n\nArushi was born in Kotdwar, Uttarakhand in northern India. She has done her bachelor's degree in Political Science and Philosophy from Bansathali Vidhyapeeth, Rajasthan. She continued her studies with MBA and International Business Certification from Metropolitan College,Toronto, Canada. She has done 8 years of \"Nishnat\" a Specialization certification in Kathak dance form.Currently she is pursuing her PhD in human resource in India. She is also the chairperson of her own Himalayan Aryuvedic Medical College & Hospital in Dehradun, Uttarakhand.\n\nArushi has given many renowned international kathak performances like \"\"Special Yoga & Kathak Concert\" in London, \"Lecture Recital\"\" \"Indian Sphere\" \"Graz\" in Austria, \"Bengalischz Nacht\", an Indian classical dance in Germany, \"\"Toronto Festival of India\" in Canada. Others include \"Tarana Dance Concert\"\" and \"Foreign Delegate Conference\" in Canada, \"Indradhanush \"Color of India\" in Dubai, \"Horizon Series\" for the Indian Council for Cultural Relations and the \"Doordarshan Live Concert\" in Delhi, \"Taj Mahotsav\" in Agra and a performance at the \"International Yoga Festival\", Rishikesh. She has also composed and choreographed many compositions like \"Ganga Avataran\", a story of Goddess Ganga coming to earth, and \"Sajda\"\", an Sufiyana classical Kathak Dance.\nArushi has also worked as a teacher with \"Spic Macay\" in teaching students the art of Kathak across India. She has also done many performances under Indian Council for Cultural Relations. She has also been interviewed by the Times of India, News 24 and Doordarshan Group on many occasions. Arushi has also worked in TV advertisements to market Patanjali Yogpeeth. Her first TV advertisement for patanjali products was aired in 2012 on Aastha TV. Arushi was fortunate enough to meet and present a Souvenir to Charles, Prince of Wales and Camilla, Duchess of Cornwall on their visit to Parmarth Niketan Rishikesh Uttarakhand in 2013.\n\nGanga Avataran is a color kathak ballet giving the story of Goddess Ganga coming to earth. This show was first performed in Rishikesh with 60 artist performing on stage which was created over River Ganga. After the successful commencement of the project she was invited by Rashtriya Kathak Sansthan Lucknow to give her performance, which was highly appreciated and witnessed by many dignitaries.\nAfter the grand success in northern India. This project was later collaborated with ICCR New Delhi.\n\nAs a producer arushi produced her first regional movie named \"Major Nirala\" in 2018. Film was based on the novel written by her father Dr Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank. Film received excellent reviews on its launched in different parts of India. She was highly appreciated by many for the film which promoted her state regional language and culture across the global platform. \n\nNamami Gange\nArushi has been an active promoter for Namami Gange Mission which is project started by Govt of India to clean river Ganga. Arushi has contributed her first ever Clean Ganga Initiative Kathak performance \"Ganga Tujhe Salam\" in Dubai, UAE in 2016. This was the world's first International Clean Ganga Program held outside India to educate NRI's about the importance of river Ganga and its cleanliness drive. In 2016 itself she has performed Ganga Avatran in Varanasi, lucknow and Kanpur and won hearts of many audiences. Shri Uma Bharti (Minister of Water Resources, River Development and Ganga Rejuvenation) has appreciated Arushi's efforts to educate people about importance of Ganga. Shri Sushma Swaraj (Minister of External Affairs) has also appreciated Arushi for her contribution to this noble cause.\n\nSparsh Ganga Campaign \nArushi is also an active promoter of her own \"Sparsh Ganga Campaign \". This Campaign was started in 2009 by her father Dr Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank to promote awareness among people to save and clean River Ganga. Today thousand of people are connected with this campaign to promote Ganga awareness. Recently Govt of India recognized volunteers of Sparsh Ganga Campaign as \"Ganga Heroes\". \n\nbeti bachao beti padhao\nArushi has been active in activities aimed at social reforms and programmes for the upliftment and empowerment of women globally. Recently she chaired IWEP (International Women Empowerment Program in Dubai for which she was featured in Forbes Middle for her contribution to social work and women empowerment. Forbes applauded her IWEP International Women Programme about girl power stating Her influence has been phenomenal in the field. She is also active globally to promote \"beti bachao beti padhao\" a government of India initiative to save Girl Child. \n\nArushi is also a poet. Two of her books on poetry collections, \"Swarg Banaungi\" and \"Kamal Mashal Ban Jaye\", have been published in India. She has been fortunate enough to meet and present her books to Pratibha Patil, former President of India; Ratan Tata, founder of Tata Group; Anupam Kher, actor; and Mahendra Singh Dhoni, cricketer.\n\nYI National Youth Icon Award, 2015\n\nGarhwal Post Outstanding Achievement Award, 2016\n\nPride Of Uttarakhand Award, 2017 \n\nUttarakhand Gaurav Samman Award, 2018 \n\nMost Iconic NRI Award, Dubai, 2018 \n\n'Power Girl', Forbes Middle East, 2018 \n\nArushi is married to Abhinav Pant. She is also the eldest daughter of Kusum Kanta Pokhriyal and Ramesh Pokhriyal Nishank, a Member of Parliament and former Chief Minister of Uttarakhand.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17343505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17343505", "title": "AuthorAID", "text": "AuthorAID\n\nAuthorAID is the name given to a number of initiatives that provide support to researchers from developing countries in preparing academic articles for publication in peer-reviewed journals. Phyllis Freeman and Anthony Robbins, co-editors of the \"Journal of Public Health Policy (JPHP)\", first suggested the name and concept in 2004 and published \"Closing the ‘publishing gap’ between rich and poor\" about AuthorAID on the Science and Development Network (SciDev.Net), in 2005.\n\nDevelopment aid programs of international organizations, industrial countries, and charitable foundations have invested in strengthening research capacity in developing countries to help those countries solve their own problems. Scientists from developing countries, however, remain under-represented as authors in the published scientific literature. AuthorAID was proposed because unless research results from authors anywhere are available through publication, the full benefit of investment in research is not achieved.\n\nAuthorAID programs engage senior scientists and author’s editors as mentors to help developing country researchers overcome barriers to publication in scientific journals. The internet connects mentors and authors where it is not possible to have face-to-face contact.\n\nThe funded AuthorAID program at the International Network for the Availability of Scientific Publications also organizes workshops in various developing countries, in addition to hosting an online mentoring scheme and e-resources. AuthorAID at INASP is independent of the other AuthorAID programs and is described below.\n\nScientific research is conducted all over the world, and increasingly in developing countries. In an effort to help countries solve problems and speed development, development aid has been invested in research capacity, notably by Sweden and Canada. The results of this research must be available through publication to be useful in economic development and to other researchers. Yet only an extremely small fraction of the scientific literature is written by developing world authors, even in fields such as health and environmental studies, where it is universally recognized that the world’s dominant problems manifest themselves in developing regions.\n\nAn analysis, published in \"Science\" in 2005, of 4061 health-related journals from 1992 to 2001 showed a growing gap in scientific publications between low-income countries and the rest of the world. Similarly, Athula Sumathipala and her colleagues found under-representation of developing world authors in leading medical journals such as the \"BMJ\", \"Lancet\", \"New England Journal of Medicine\", \"Annals of Internal Medicine\", and \"JAMA\", in 1999 and 2000.\n\nThere is no single cause of the under-representation of developing world authors. Bias exists on the part of both editors and reviewers who choose what to publish. Frank Gannon, writing as the editor of \"EMBO Reports\", pointed out one worrisome source of bias against researchers from developing countries. He suggested that editors and reviewers discriminate \"by judging colleagues on their work address\" noting that \"[t]he address of the first or last authors is not always a neutral piece of information when assessing a paper.\"\n\nDifferences in publication priorities between developed and developing countries are not always a sign of bias. The editors of a guide to publishing in the addiction sciences noted that \"US research is primarily (and legitimately) oriented towards that country’s own social and economic priorities, which do not necessarily apply to cultures in the developing world. The problem of US dominance is thus not only one of maldistribution of opportunity.\" Some writers, analyzing the issues of science information transfer from a sociolinguistic and sociopolitical standpoint, consider this cultural dominance to reflect an \"Anglo-American English language hegemony.\" The problem is further compounded by variations in the quality of the feedback peer reviewers are able to provide about the language and writing, since this advice does not always help to make the writing better.\n\nWriting in English, overwhelmingly the language of scientific publication, constitutes a problem that can make it difficult for non-native English speakers (NNS) to \"compete on an equal research basis.\" In the early 1990s Gosden surveyed editors if biology, chemistry and physics journals to identify aspects of manuscripts \"which may seriously detract attention from judgment of a paper’s essential merits.\" He found that journal editors reported several problems encountered by NNS researchers, including inadequate knowledge of the unwritten \"rules of the publication game\" (for instance, failure to cite sufficient references to earlier research and unfamiliarity with the argumentation style or scientific level of the journal.)\n\nThe editors of the addiction sciences publishing guide mentioned above noted that international publishing requires technical skill to follow the instructions to authors, and is \"an acquired competence in social communication.\" They warned that \"if the formalities are not followed, even a study containing strong and original findings might immediately be turned down.\" One potential obstacle to acceptance is that \"many English-speaking editors and reviewers (in the same way as many French, German, or Swedish speaking editors) will have a rather strict idea of what constitutes good language.\"\n\nFreeman and Robbins, when developing the AuthorAID concept, summarized what they learned about the problems faced by authors in developing countries as: \n\nEditors and other research publication experts might help researchers overcome linguistic challenges and cultural differences, and help them understand the procedural, ethical, and technical intricacies of academic publication. Freeman and Robbins reported that in developing world research institutions there are simply too few editor/scientist mentors (well-published authors or experienced editors) available to assist in disseminating the work of emerging research talent whose findings might be brought to bear on the world’s major problems.\n\nEditors of international journals reported to Freeman and Robbins that they sometimes reject submissions from developing country authors even when the content shows merit. Some noted that despite investment in research capacity in developing countries, many manuscripts reflect inadequate attention to research design and analysis. Conflicting priorities and lack of resources to provide substantive editing have also been discussed as a potential source of bias by members of the World Association of Medical Editors (WAME). Editors in WAME who work with researchers as well as those who tend the gates at journals noted that the chances of acceptance may be lower for manuscripts needing more rather than less editing work.\n\nAt smaller journals in particular, manuscripts are likely to be rejected if they seem to require more editing than the editors or publisher can afford to provide. Another potential source of bias is perceived narrowness of scope: some editors lament the paucity of submissions sufficiently broad in scope to warrant international dissemination. Manuscripts that report research on a local or regional topic are often rejected by international journals before the editors have carefully scrutinized the research design and data collection.\n\nJournal editors from the Forum of African Medical Editors (FAME) and the Eastern Mediterranean Association of Medical Editors (EMAME), both of which are supported by the World Health Organization, report they do most of the editorial tasks themselves, and have little time to assist authors with substantial revisions. Lack of editorial staff to help authors may prolong the review process or result in rejection of manuscripts whose research findings could be applied to solving practical problems or to further research.\n\nThe tradition of intensive editing in many fields and at many scholarly journals and publishing houses (see academic publishing) has given way to commercial imperatives to produce at lower cost more \"content\" that can be repackaged and resold or licensed to others to generate additional revenue. To reduce costs, publishers have pushed greater editorial responsibility upon authors. Journals proliferate, but editorial resources are often strained, leading to a propensity to accept manuscripts that require less work. This may impose an additional burden on readers trying to understand the published articles.\n\nResearch institutions in wealthy countries have responded to this new publishing environment. Where no in-house editorial service exists, elite institutions often buy editorial help for their researchers from freelance editors or specialized firms. Few, if any, developing world institutions have in-house editorial services or external editors.\n\nIn some models of open access publishing the author pays the publisher a \"manuscript processing fee,\" which contributes little revenue to invest in editing. These fees tend to exclude less affluent authors from the start. However, not all models of open access publishing require financial support from authors, and some open access publishers waive their fees when payment would represent a hardship for authors.\n\nThe editors of the \"Journal of Public Health Policy (JPHP)\" first presented the AuthorAID idea, provisionally named EditAID, at a meeting of the World Federation of Public Health Associations in Brighton, England in April 2004. Public health professionals from the federation’s 69 national associations expressed interest in the AuthorAID concept. Some wanted to benefit from mentoring and others offered to help scientists with less writing experience.\n\nThe second public presentation of AuthorAID took place in Mexico in November 2004 at the Global Forum for Health Research. This allowed AuthorAID’s developers to reach a group closer to the intended users, i.e., researchers from developing countries plus national and international agencies that invest in research. Robbins and Jerry Spiegel, a Canadian colleague from the Canadian Coalition for Global Health Research, talked to the forum about the potential benefits of AuthorAID. In addition, a group of Rockefeller Foundation International Health Research Awardees presented their research to a concurrent ministerial summit. These researchers, from 25 developing countries, had been helped by \"JPHP\" in an AuthorAID-like developmental editing experiment. In the wake of this experience, interest focussed on the search for more substantial ways to test the AuthorAID concept.\n\nMany editors of US scientific journals were, at the time, engaged in activities to support developing world journal editors and their publications. For its May 2005 meeting in Atlanta, Georgia, the council of Science Editors (CSE, formerly the Council of Biology Editors) invited a presentation of AuthorAID. Ana Marusic, co-editor of the \"Croatian Medical Journal\", organized a special session on AuthorAID. Editors from FAME encouraged CSE to participate in AuthorAID. CSE’s board voted to develop the concept into a CSE project. Paul Bozuwa of Dartmouth Journal Services, who chaired a CSE Task Force on Science Journals, Poverty, and Human Development, took the lead for CSE on AuthorAID.\n\nThe Science and Development Network posted an article by the \"JPHP\" editors in its Opinions section describing AuthorAID to the broader science and development communities. The \"JPHP\" editors followed up with an editorial in their journal in which they explained the problems faced by developing world researchers when they try to publish their work in scientific journals.\n\nIn 2006, AuthorAID experiments started to take shape. Certain central elements remain constant across the experiments. AuthorAID is not commercial, relying exclusively on volunteer scientific and editorial mentors to help developing world authors. All AuthorAID projects match mentors (senior scientists with editorial experience often in or near retirement, or experienced science editors) with researchers seeking help to present their work. Mentors forswear authorship, agreeing to accept acknowledgment from the researchers whom they assist. Together the mentors and authors work on a manuscript via the internet or e-mail (unless they are able to meet in person) through to publication.\n\nThe European Association of Science Editors (EASE) invited a presentation of AuthorAID at its 2006 Annual Meeting in Kraków, Poland and subsequently endorsed the concept. Short descriptions of AuthorAID have been published in the journals of both CSE (Science Editor) and EASE (European Science Editing).\n\nThe International Society for Environmental Epidemiology, with almost 1000 members worldwide, created an AuthorAID for its developing world members, relying on the expertise of senior members as mentors. In 2007, this became the one of the first operational experiments with the AuthorAID concept.\n\nIn late 2008 AuthorAID and Scientists without Borders, a project developed by the New York Academy of Sciences, discovered each other and agreed to investigate ways to work together. In autumn 2009 work began on the development of an organizational profile for the AuthorAID concept and its various projects on the Scientists without Borders website. In addition, support from the Eastern Mediterranean Association of Medical Editors (EMAME), the Regional Office for the Eastern Mediterranean of the World Health Organization, and the Bahrain Medical Society made it possible for Karen Shashok, a translator and author's editor located in Granada, Spain, to attend the EMMJ4 conference in Manama, Bahrain and start work on the AuthorAID in the Eastern Mediterranean project.\n\nThe International Network for the Availability of Scientific Publications (INASP), an international development charity based in Oxford, UK, has run a funded AuthorAID program called AuthorAID at INASP since January 2007. Following the independent evaluation of the pilot phase from 2007 to 2009, the program was extended until the end of 2012.\n\nAuthorAID at INASP is funded by the Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency (Sida), the Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation (NORAD), and the UK's Department for International Development (DFID). AuthorAID at INASP is not connected to the other AuthorAID programs. Instead, it is an integral part of INASP's Programme for the Enhancement of Research Information, which facilitates the availability, accessibility, creation, and uptake of research in developing countries.\n\nLike other AuthorAID initiatives, the AuthorAID program at INASP includes a mentoring scheme, which in June 2012 had nearly 5000 members from 150+ countries. In 2012, the British Academy invited AuthorAID at INASP to talk about mentoring at the Career Development Workshop for Early Career Researchers in West Africa, and a talk on mentoring was also given at the 11th General Assembly of the European Association of Science Editors.\n\nSince 2007, the AuthorAID staff from INASP have organized many workshops on research writing (i.e., writing research papers for publication in peer-reviewed journals) in various countries in Africa, South Asia, and Latin America. Workshops have also been organized locally by researchers working in INASP's partner countries. The impact of AuthorAID at INASP workshops on the publication output of participants is periodically evaluated. Researchers who attend the train-the-trainers workshop, which are often part of AuthorAID at INASP's research writing workshops, are encouraged to pass on their knowledge. The hundreds of free e-resources on research communication available on the AuthorAID at INASP site can be used by anyone for non-profit workshops and educational activities.\n\nSince 2010, AuthorAID at INASP have provided grants to support research communication. Grants have been awarded for researchers to present at conferences, organize local AuthorAID workshops, and attend an intensive course on research writing.\n\nA pilot e-learning course on research writing was conducted in 2011, and results were reported at an e-learning conference.\n\nFrom January to June 2009 the first on-site phase of this volunteer project, co-coordinated by Karen Shashok and Dr Farhad Handjani, was able to get underway thanks to support from Shiraz University of Medical Sciences in Shiraz, Iran. The results of the first on-site phase of this project were presented at the European Association of Science Editors 2009 conference, and were reported in \"European Science Editing\" and elsewhere. The second on-site phase, again supported by Shiraz University of Medical Sciences, took place from November 2010 to July 2011. Work during this phase formed the basis of several articles, and also resulted in plans for collaborative research between an author's editor at the Clinical Research Development Center of Nemazee Hospital (one of the teaching hospitals affiliated with Shiraz University of Medical Sciences) and an AAEM editor in Spain. The AuthorAID in the Eastern Mediterranean website was inaugurarated in late October 2012.\n\nExperienced volunteer editors who contribute their time to AAEM are located in several countries and edit research manuscripts at no cost to the authors. In Iran, the project has provided manuscript editing combined with training in writing, revising, good scientific English style, appropriate referencing and citation, and research publication ethics. Sets of AAEM advice developed for authors and editors cover aspects of technical editing such as abbreviations, reference formats and identifying sources of materials, as well as aspects of research writing and publication such as plagiarism, self-plagiarism, appropriate secondary publication and choosing the most appropriate journal. While the next on-site phase of AAEM is being planned, its volunteers continue to provide manuscript editing support via email for researchers in the Eastern Mediterranean region.\n\n\nCouncil of Science Editors Global Theme Issue on poverty and human development. Oct 22, 2007. Accessed 21 March 2008\n"}
{"id": "55508111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55508111", "title": "Bureau of Manpower Employment and Training", "text": "Bureau of Manpower Employment and Training\n\nBureau of Manpower Employment and Training is government department that is responsible for the training and employment of Bangladeshi overseas and is located in Dhaka, Bangladesh.\n\nBureau of Manpower Employment and Training was established in 1976 under the Ministry of Manpower Development and Social Welfare as a department. They provide Bangladeshi workers with Smart cards, Biometric registration, and immigration clearance. The Bureau explores the opportunities for Bangladeshi labor force outside the country. It operates the Institute of Marine Technology and runs it under its supervision among other technical educational centres.\n"}
{"id": "165084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=165084", "title": "California Institute of the Arts", "text": "California Institute of the Arts\n\nThe California Institute of the Arts (CalArts) is a private university in Santa Clarita, California. It was incorporated in 1961 as the first degree-granting institution of higher learning in the United States created specifically for students of both the visual and performing arts. It offers Bachelor of Fine Arts, Master of Fine Arts, Master of Arts, and Doctor of Musical Arts degrees among six schools: Art; Critical Studies; Dance; Film/Video; Music; and Theater.\n\nThe school was first envisioned by many benefactors in the early 1960s, staffed by a diverse array of professionals (including Nelbert Murphy Chouinard, a founder of Chouinard Art Institute, Walt Disney, Lulu Von Hagen, Thornton Ladd and others). CalArts students develop their own work, over which they retain control and copyright, in a workshop atmosphere.\n\nAs of 2017, the school has a 27.5% acceptance rate. As of 2016, US News & World Report has CalArts ranked #9 of \"Best Graduate Fine Arts Programs.\" \n\nCalArts was originally formed in 1961, as a merger of the Chouinard Art Institute (founded 1921) and the Los Angeles Conservatory of Music (founded 1883). Both of the formerly existing institutions were going through financial difficulties around the same time, and the founder of the Art Institute, Nelbert Chouinard, was mortally ill. The professional relationship between Madame Chouinard and Walt Disney began in 1929 when Disney had no money and Madame Chouinard agreed to train Disney's first animators on a pay-later basis. It was through the vision of Disney, who discovered and trained many of his studio artists at Chouinard (including Mary Blair, Maurice Noble and some of the Nine Old Men, among others), that the merger of the two institutions was coordinated; the process continued after his death in 1966. Joining him were his brother Roy O. Disney, Lulu Von Hagen and Thornton Ladd (Ladd & Kelsey, Architects), of the Los Angeles Conservatory of Music. The original board of trustess at CalArts included Harrison Price, Royal Clark, Robert W. Corrigan, Roy E. Disney, Roy O. Disney, film producer Z. Wayne Griffin, H. R. Haldeman, Ralph Hetzel (then vice-president of Motion Picture Association of America), Chuck Jones, Ronald Miller, Millard Sheets, attorney Maynard Toll, bank executive G. Robert Truex Jr. , Jerry Wexler, Meredith Willson, Peter McBean and Scott Newhall (descendants of Henry Newhall), and the wives of Roswell Gilpatric, J.L. Hurschler, Richard R. Von Hagen.\n\nIn 1965, the Alumni Association was founded as a nonprofit organization and was governed by a 12-member board of directors to serve the best interests of the institute and its programs. Members included leading professional artists and musicians, who contributed their knowledge, experience and skill to strengthen the institute. The 12 founding board of directors members were Mary Costa, Edith Head, Gale Storm, Marc Davis, Tony Duquette, Harold Grieve, John Hench, Chuck Jones, Henry Mancini, Marty Paich, Nelson Riddle and Millard Sheets.\n\nThe ground-breaking for CalArts' current campus took place May 3, 1969. However, construction of the new campus was hampered by torrential rains, labor troubles and the earthquake in 1971. CalArts moved to its present campus in the Valencia section of the city of Santa Clarita, California in November 1971. From the beginning, CalArts was plagued by the tensions between its art and trade school functions as well as between the non-commercial aspirations of the students and faculty and the conservative interests of the Disney family and trustees. The founding board of trustees originally planned on creating CalArts as a school in an entertainment complex, a destination like Disneyland, and a feeder school for the industry. Such a model is exemplified in the 1941 Disney film The Reluctant Dragon. In an ironic turn of fate, they appointed Dr. Robert W. Corrigan as the first president of the Institute.\n\nCorrigan, former dean of the School of Arts at New York University fired almost all the artists and teachers from Chouinard in his attempt to remake CalArts into his personal vision. Herbert Blau was hired as the Institute's provost and dean of the School of Theater and Dance. Subsequently, Blau was instrumental in hiring a number of professionals like Mel Powell (dean of the School of Music), Paul Brach (dean of the School of Art), Alexander Mackendrick (dean of the School of Film/Video), sociologist Maurice R. Stein (dean of Critical Studies), and Richard Farson (dean of the School of Design; now integrated in the Art school as the Graphic Design program), as well as other influential program heads and teachers such as Stephan von Huene, Allan Kaprow, Bella Lewitzky, Michael Asher, Jules Engel, John Baldessari, Judy Chicago, Ravi Shankar, Max Kozloff, Miriam Shapiro, Douglas Huebler, Morton Subotnick, Norman M. Klein and Nam June Paik most of whom largely came from a counterculture and avant-garde side of the art world. The fundamental principles established at the Institute by Blau and the late Corrigan included ideas like “no technique in advance of need,” and that a curriculum should be cyclical rather than sequential, returning to root principles at regular intervals, and that “we’re a community of artists here, some of us called faculty and some called students.\"\n\nCorrigan held his position until 1972, when he was replaced by William S. Lund, a Disney son-in-law. Within a month of Lund's tenure as president, 55 of CalArts' 325 faculty and staff were fired. Structured schedules were introduced. Classes were trimmed back and, within a year, the Institute was operating on budget. Some credit Lund with saving CalArts. Others see his tenure as the end of an idealistic experiment. In 1975, Robert J. Fitzpatrick was appointed new president of CalArts. Holding this position for 12 years, in 1987\nFitzpatrick resigned as president to head Euro Disney in Paris. Nicholas England, former dean of the School of Music, was appointed acting president. One year later, Steven Lavine, associate director for arts and humanities at the Rockefeller Foundation, was named new president.\n\nOn June 24, 2015 Steven D. Lavine announced he would step down as President of the California Institute of the Arts in May 2017, after an unprecedented 29-year tenure. Concluding a search with over 500 candidates, the CalArts Board of Directors announced on December 13, 2016 that Ravi S. Rajan, Dean of the School of the Arts at the State University of New York at Purchase was unanimously elected as President, to begin in June 2017.\n\nBeginning in the summer of 1987, CalArts became the host of the state-funded California State Summer School for the Arts (CSSSA) program. It began as a program to nurture talented high school students in the fields of animation, creative writing, dance, film and video, music, theatre arts, and visual arts. CalArts expanded on the concept by creating the Community Arts Partnership in 1990. While CSSSA is open to qualifying California students, CAP, as it is commonly known, is a service provided to students living within underprivileged communities in the Los Angeles County school system. Many CalArts faculty and students mentor the high school students in both programs.\n\nIn 1994, Herb Alpert, a professional musician and admirer of the Institute, established the Alpert Awards in the Arts in collaboration with CalArts and his nonprofit the Herb Alpert Foundation. While the foundation provides the award for winning recipients, the school's faculty in the fields film/new media, visual arts, theatre, dance, and music select artists in their field to nominate an individual artist who is recognized for their innovation in their given medium. Recipients of this award are required to stay for a week as visiting artists at CalArts and mentor students studying their metier. In 2008, CalArts renamed the School of Music in his name, courtesy of a $15 million donation.\n\nOver the years, the school has also developed on-campus, interdisciplinary laboratories, such as the Center for Experiments in Art, Information, and Technology, Center for Integrated Media, Center for New Performance at CalArts, and the Cotsen Center for Puppetry and the Arts.\n\nCalArts offers degree programs in music, art, dance, film and video, animation, theater, puppetry, and writing. Students receive intensive professional training in the area of their career purpose without being cast into a rigid pattern. Its focus is in interdisciplinary, contemporary art, and the Institute's stated mission is to develop professional artists of tomorrow- artists who will change their field. With these goals in place, the Institute encourages students to recognize the complexity of political, social and aesthetic questions and to respond to them with informed, independent judgment.\n\nEvery school within the Institute requires that applicants send in an artist's statement, along with a portfolio or audition (depending on the Program) in order to be considered for admission. The school does not review an applicant's SAT scores without consent of the applicant, and does not consider an applicant's GPA as part of the admission process.\n\nIn a 2016 interview, design program faculty member Michael Worthington was asked \"What kinds of students do best at CalArts?, to which he responded, \"Energetic, enthusiastic, self-motivated, fast learners, idiosyncratic aesthetes, verbal and visual adventurers, risk takers, those who are smart and vocal with a critical eye for their own work and the work of others. Having technical, formal and typographical skills helps, but we can teach those things. Raw intelligence and criticality and an adventurous side matter more at the start. Above all, the students that do best are those that are committed to design and who are willing to put the time and energy into their own development and learning.\"\"\n\nThe initial concept behind CalArts' interdisciplinary approach came from Richard Wagner's idea of Gesamtkunstwerk (\"total artwork\"), which Disney himself was fond of and explored in a variety of forms, beginning with his own studio, then later in the incorporation of CalArts. He began with the classic Disney film \"Fantasia\" (1940), where animators, dancers, composers, and artists alike collaborated. In 1952, Walt Disney Imagineering was founded, where Disney integrated artists from his animation studio and elsewhere, as well as formally trained engineers and achieved creative critical mass in the development of Disneyland. He believed that the same concept that developed WDI, could also be applied to a university setting, where art students of different mediums would be exposed to and explore a wide range of creative directions. Disney himself has stated of his memorial school:\n\nSchools at CalArts include:\n\n\nThe Walt Disney Modular Theatre is an indoor performance space located within the California Institute of the Arts.\n\nFunded by Lillian Disney, who lent support to Walt's venture into education, her gift to the school to remodel a campus theater and rename it the Walt Disney Modular Theatre in 1993. The modular theater is based on a concept suggested by Antonin Artaud, who asserted that the ideal theater could be reconfigured for each and every new performance or play. When Walt Disney founded his Institute of the Arts, he requested suggestions from leaders in various artistic fields as to what would be the ideal tools for advancing the study and practice of their medium. One of the overwhelmingly popular suggestions from the theater community was a modular theater as suggested by Artaud. Disney had the Modular Theatre incorporated as the central performance space of his Institute. It was the first of its kind constructed, and remains one of only five in the world.\n\nThe chief feature of the theater is a segmented floor, divided into 348 4'x4' square platforms, each mounted on its own independent pneumatic pistons, allowing the floor to be reconfigured into whatever shape is desired. The theater is also composed of segmented pieces, so that walls can also be easily reconfigured, creating a virtually limitless number of possibilities in design. The theater is two stories tall from floor to ceiling—the pneumatic pistons reach another story down into the CalArts library, where they are a dominating architectural feature. There are doors on all sides of the theater so that the audience can be made to enter from whatever direction the artists choose. The theater can be divided into several playing spaces, the audience can be separated into several sections, and any combination of levels and directions can be used. The theater can also be configured into an environmental space, with the audience moving through multiple locations in the course of a show, or being presented with a virtual environment rather than one in which they are separate from the performance.\n\nThe Walt Disney Modular Theater is employed year-round by students and faculty at the CalArts, primarily those in the schools of Theater, Dance, and Music. Though the idea of modular theater has fallen out of fashion, in favor of environmental theater and the resurgence of proscenium spectacle theater, the theater remains in use, run by the Technical Direction Department, including both students and faculty.\n\nIt was designed by Fisher Dachs Associates, a collaboration between the Dean of the Theater School, Herbert Blau, lighting designer Jules Fisher, and Thornton Ladd (Ladd & Kelsey, Architects).\n\nA113 is an Easter egg that has been inserted into several animated television shows and feature films as a homage to a classroom at CalArts.\n\nIn 2003, CalArts established a performance theater in downtown Los Angeles called REDCAT, the Roy and Edna Disney CalArts Theater at Walt Disney Concert Hall. The Center for New Performance, the professional producing arm of the CalArts Theater School, brings works to the space from both student and professional artists and musicians.\n\nIn fall 2009, the Institute opened an on-campus music pavilion, known as the \"Wild Beast\". The , free-standing structure serves as a space for classrooms and combined indoor-outdoor performance space. CalArts' President Steven Lavine has stated, “The core demand is that our Herb Alpert School of Music has doubled in size in the last decade; when we have guest artists, there is no place for them to perform—And the second reason was to allow enough space for the general public to attend [...]”\n\nIn 2013, CalArts opened its John Baldessari Art Studio Building, which cost $3.1 million to build and features approximately 7,000 square feet of space—much of it used as studio space for art students and faculty.\n\n\nCalArts confers honorary Doctor of Arts degrees \"to individuals who consistently represent the bold innovation and visionary creativity championed by the Institute, and those who have made extraordinary contributions to contemporary culture\". \n\nIn 2011, Newsweek/The Daily Beast listed CalArts as the top school for arts-minded students. The ranking was not aimed to assess the country's best art school, but rather to assess campuses that offer an exceptional artistic atmosphere.\n\nIn 1969, during the groundbreaking ceremony of the Valencia campus, as Lillian Disney turned over the first shovel full of soil, director Bob Clampett stood behind her mugging for the flashing cameras.\n\nSeveral students who attended CalArts' animation programs in the 1970s eventually found work at Walt Disney Animation Studios, and several of those went on to successful careers at Disney, Pixar, and other animation studios. In March 2014, \"Vanity Fair\" magazine highlighted the success of CalArts' 1970s animation alumni and briefly profiled several (including Jerry Rees, John Lasseter, Tim Burton, John Musker, Brad Bird, Gary Trousdale, Kirk Wise, Henry Selick and Nancy Beiman) in an article illustrated with a group portrait taken by photographer Annie Leibovitz inside classroom A113.\n\nIn the late eighties, a group of CalArts animation students contacted animation director Ralph Bakshi. As he was in the process of moving to New York, they persuaded him to stay in Los Angeles to continue to produce adult animation. Bakshi then got the production rights to the cartoon character Mighty Mouse. By Bakshi's request, Tom Minton and John Kricfalusi then went to the CalArts campus to recruit the best talent from what was the recent group of graduates. They hired Jeff Pidgeon, Rich Moore, Carole Holiday, Andrew Stanton and Nate Kanfer to work on the then-new \"\" television series.\n\nIn an interview, Craig \"Spike\" Decker of Spike and Mike's Festival of Animation commented on the work of independent animator Don Hertzfeldt stating that Hertzfeldt demonstrated good instincts coupled with his lack of interest in the world of commerce. In making a comparison, Decker made a reference to CalArts stating: \"A lot of animators come out of CalArts — they could be so prolific, but then they're owned by Disney or someone, and they're painting the fins on the Little Mermaid. You'll never see their full potential\".\n\nThurston Moore and Kim Gordon, members of the band Sonic Youth, remarked in an interview with VH1 about the band Liars, of which Angus Andrew and Julian Gross are CalArts luminaries. Moore's initial remarks were: \"There's this whole world of young people who [think] everything's allowed. What Liars are doing right now is completely crazy. I saw them the other night and it was really great. It's really out-there\". Gordon then stated \"I'm not so crazy about the way [the Liars' They Were Wrong, So We Drowned] sounds. It's like 'how lo-fi can we make it?' But I think the content is really good\". In reference to CalArts and Gordon's statement, Moore lastly remarked \"They're art kids. They came out of CalArts and that's the kind of sensibility you have when you come out of these sort of places.\"\n\nIn the \"LA Weekly\" op-ed piece \"The Kids Aren’t All Right: Is over-education killing young artists?\", published in 2005, curator Aaron Rose wrote about an observed trend he recognized in Los Angeles's most esteemed art schools and their MFA programs, including CalArts. He uses the example of Supersonic, \"a large exhibition […] that features the work of MFA students from esteemed area programs like CalArts, Art Center, UCLA, etc.\" In his observation of the showcase he examined, \"[...] the work left me mostly empty and with a few exceptions seemed like nothing more than a rehash of conceptual ideas that were mined years ago.\" He went on to state that \"these institutions are staffed with amazing talents (Mike Kelley and John Baldessari among them). Legions of creative young people flock to our city [Los Angeles] every year to work alongside their heroes and develop their talents with hopes of making it as an artist.\" He goes on to further state \"What happens too often in these situations, though, is that we find young artists simply emulating their instructors, rather than finding and honing their own aesthetics and points of view about the world, society, themselves. In the beginnings of an artist’s career, the power in his or her work should lie not in their technique or knowledge of art history or theory or business acumen, but in what one has to say.\"\n\nContemporary artist Amanda Charchian was asked in an interview what she disliked about going to art school. In her response, she noted, \"Most of my teachers came from the 1970′s CalArts conceptual art world, so they had us deconstruct everything we did in terms of the material being the message (Truth to materials). So if I used marble it had to be about social class, ancient sculpture, heaviness, etc. There was this idea that there’s nothing in the work that couldn’t relate to why you made it. Intuition was never enough of a reason.\"\n\nCalArts graduates have joined or started successful pop bands, including: The Belle Brigade, The Weirdos, Bedroom Walls, Beelzabubba, Dawn of Midi, The Rippingtons, Fitz and The Tantrums, Fol Chen, London After Midnight, No Doubt, Mission of Burma, Radio Vago, Oingo Boingo, Secret Circuit, Liars, The Mae Shi, Ozomatli, and Jack Ruby.\n\nToday, CalArts is recognized alongside Black Mountain College and the Nova Scotia College of Art and Design as one of the truly successful experiments in American arts education.\n\nPixar University is an in-house professional-development program within Pixar that expands the concept of employee education by broadening its focus from skills training to a more general fine-arts education. It is based on the educational model of CalArts. The program offers more than 110 courses: a complete film-making curriculum, classes on painting, drawing, sculpting and creative writing, which usually last four to sixteen weeks. These classes are available not only for animators, but everyone, from the security guard to cafeteria chef.\nIn this setting, employees are allowed to miss work for a full slate in classes (about 14 per week) to raise the level of the best, cross-train, and develop mastery in whatever subjects may interest them. The vision behind the university is for employees to try new things, work together better and test new ideas, but one of the most important benefits from the program is to build morale, spirit and communication among employees. The dean of Pixar University, Randy S. Nelson, explains: \"We've made the leap from an idea-centered business to a people-centered business. Instead of developing ideas, we develop people. Instead of investing in ideas, we invest in people. We're trying to create a culture of learning, filled with lifelong learners. It's no trick for talented people to be interesting, but it's a gift to be interested. We want an organization filled with interested people.\".\n\nOn August 29, 2014 a freshman student identified as Regina filed a Title IX complaint against CalArts, regarding CalArts' improper response to her reported rape by a classmate. According to Aljazeera, the CalArts administration questioned the victim, \"...ask[ing] her questions about her drinking habits, how often she partied, the length of her dress, how oral rape was even possible, whether she climaxed and whether climaxing was an issue when she'd been with her alleged rapist before.\" She was subjected to retaliation from friends of the perpetrator. The student filed a complaint against CalArts with the Department of Education's Office of Civil Rights, which was dismissed. The perpetrator was suspended for a year. CalArts students walked out of their classes and protested in solidarity with the victim on October 23, later initiating a student-led meeting to discuss the issue of sexual assault.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22963407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22963407", "title": "Community indicators", "text": "Community indicators\n\nCommunity indicators are \"measurements that provide information about past and current trends and assist planners and community leaders in making decisions that affect future outcomes\". They provide insight into the overall direction of a community: whether it is improving, declining, or staying the same, or is some mix of all three.\n\nIn essence, indicators are measurements that reflect the interplay between social, environmental, and economic factors affecting a region’s or community’s well-being. Community indicators projects typically are conducted by nonprofit organizations within a community, although in some cases they are initiated by the public sector.\n\nCommunity indicators are a localized response to the perceived invalidity of the traditional predominantly economic indicators, such as GDP, that are used for measuring human progress. This invalidity takes two forms. First, economic indicators account for all money transactions as beneficial for quality of life, whereas some of these can be seen as decidedly negative (e.g., money spent on environmental cleanup of pollution that could have been prevented). Secondly, strictly economic indicators do not count the value of non-monetary activity, such as homemaker and volunteer work and non-cash public assistance, which are decidedly positive for the quality of life of many families (Journal article by David Swain, Danielle Hollar; International Journal of Public Administration, Vol. 26, 2003).\n\nA communities level approach to this apparent invalidity is based on the evidence of a social group whose members reside in a specific locality, share government, and often have a common culture and history. Community indicators are not a new concept; they have been in use since 1910, when the Russell Sage Foundation initiated the development of local surveys for measuring industrial, educational, recreational, and other factors. The processes used by the Sage Foundation are similar to those that reemerged during the 1990s. But the difference today is the use of indicators to consider the full spectrum of a community’s well-being, not just isolated factors. Nowadays, indicators are used by many constituencies within a community. After a decade of renewed attention to community indicators, they now represent a valuable mechanism to improve monitoring and evaluation in planning.\n\nRussell Sage Foundation employed “over two thousand local surveys taken on education, recreation, public health, crime, and general social conditions” to assess social conditions. The first survey was conducted in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. (In the late 1990s, Pittsburgh again embraced indicators, with its Sustainable Pittsburgh Goals and Indicators Project.) Many of the surveys used\nby the Sage Foundation were conducted by nonprofit organizations, such as chambers of commerce and citizen committees. These surveys yielded social trends indicators and were popular until the Great Depression and World War II, when economic measures such as the gross domestic product or gross national product indicators took greater precedence\n\nCommunity information systems (CIS) bring together a wide range of community indicators — social, economic and environmental data and information around objectives:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29131578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29131578", "title": "Delmon University for Science &amp; Technology", "text": "Delmon University for Science &amp; Technology\n\nDelmon University for Science & Technology (often shortened to Delmon University) is a private university in Manama, Bahrain.\n\nThe university was originally conceived in 2003 by its founder, Dr Hassan Al-Qadhi. It was licensed to operate on 6 July 2004. The name derives from Delmon or Dilmun, a land mentioned by Ancient Iraqi civilizations as a source of raw material, which has been speculated to have been in Bahrain.\n\nDegree programs include a Bachelor of Arts in Business Administration.\n\n"}
{"id": "16792341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16792341", "title": "Digital Library for Dutch Literature", "text": "Digital Library for Dutch Literature\n\nThe Digital Library for Dutch Literature (Dutch: Digitale Bibliotheek voor de Nederlandse Letteren or DBNL) is a website (showing the abbreviation as dbnl) about Dutch language and Dutch literature. The website contains thousands of literary texts, secondary literature and additional information, like biographies, portrayals etcetera, and hyperlinks. The DBNL is an initiative by the DBNL foundation that was founded in 1999 by the Society of Dutch Literature (Dutch: Maatschappij der Nederlandse Letterkunde). Building of the DNBL was made possible by donations, among others, from the Dutch Organization for Scientific Research (Dutch: Nederlandse Organisatie voor Wetenschappelijk Onderzoek) and the Nederlandse Taalunie. From 2008 to 2012, the editor was René van Stipriaan. The work is done by eight people in Leiden (as of 2013: The Hague), 20 students, and 50 people in the Philippines who scan and type the texts.\nThe DBNL contains (or will contain in the near future), the complete so called \"basic library\" (Dutch: \"basisbibliotheek\") 1,000 deemed \"key\" texts of the Dutch and Flemish cultural history. The chairperson of the committee that selected the 1,000 key texts is Paul Schnabel. Nevertheless, some classic texts of Dutch literature, like Gerard Reve's 1947 novel \"The evenings\" (Dutch: \"De avonden\") and Willem Frederik Hermans' 1966 novel \"Beyond Sleep\" (Dutch: \"Nooit meer slapen\") are missing because of copyright reasons.\n\n"}
{"id": "28081454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28081454", "title": "Dueling scar", "text": "Dueling scar\n\nDueling scars () have been seen as a \"badge of honour\" since as early as 1825. Known variously as \"Mensur scars\", \"the bragging scar\", \"smite\", \"Schmitte\" or \"Renommierschmiss\", dueling scars were popular amongst upper-class Austrians and Germans involved in academic fencing at the start of the 20th century. Being a practice amongst university students, it was seen as a mark of their class and honour, due to the status of dueling societies at German and Austrian universities at the time, and is an early example of scarification in European society. The practice of duelling and the associated scars was also present to some extent in the German military.\n\nAmerican tourists visiting Germany in the late 19th century were shocked to see the students, generally with their \"Studentcorps\", at major German universities such as Heidelberg, Bonn, or Jena with facial scars – some older, some more recent, and some still wrapped in bandages.\n\nThe sport of academic fencing at the time was very different from modern fencing using specially developed swords. The so-called \"Mensurschläger\" (or simply \"Schläger\", \"hitter\") existed in two versions. The most common weapon is the Korbschläger with a basket-type guard. In some universities in the eastern part of Germany, the so-called Glockenschläger is in use which is equipped with a bell-shaped guard. The individual duels between students, known as \"Mensuren\", were somewhat ritualised. In some cases, protective clothing was worn, including padding on the arm and an eye guard.\n\nThe culture of dueling scars was mainly common to Germany and Austria, to a lesser extent some central European countries and briefly at places such as Oxford and some other elite universities. German military laws permitted men to wage duels of honor until World War I, and in 1933 the Nazi government legalized the practice once more.\n\nWithin the duel, it was seen as ideal and a way of showing courage to be able to stand and take the blow, as opposed to inflicting the wound. In fact, the victor was seen as the person who could walk away from the duel with an obvious scar. It was important to show one's duelling prowess, but also that one was capable of taking the wound that was inflicted.\n\nAs the scars were gained in this particular elite social context, associated with status and an academic institution, the scars showed that one had courage and also was \"good husband material\". The duelling scars, while obvious, were not so serious as to leave a person disfigured or bereft of facial features. The scars were even judged by Otto von Bismarck to be a sign of bravery, and men's courage could be judged \"by the number of scars on their cheeks\".\n\nMinority groups in Germany also indulged in the practice, some seeing it as an aid in their social situation, including some Jews who wore the scars with pride. In 1874, William Osler, then a medical student on a visit to Berlin, described \"one hopeful young Spanish American of my acquaintance who has one half of his face – they are usually on the left half – laid out in the most irregular manner, the cicatrices running in all directions, enclosing areas of all shapes, the relics of fourteen duels.\" Some Jews in Germany saw the scars as a signifier of a socially healthy individual.\n\nBecause \"Mensur\" swords are wielded with one hand and most fencers are right-handed, \"Mensur\" scars were usually targeted to the left profile, so the right profile appeared untouched. Experienced fencers, who had fought many bouts, often accumulated an array of scars. A duelist who died in 1877 \"...fought no less than thirteen duels but had 137 scars on head, face and neck\".\n\nThe wounds were generally not that serious, \"wounds causing, as a rule, but temporary inconvenience and leaving in their traces a perpetual witness of a fight well fought. The hurts, save when inflicted in the nose, lip or ear, are not even necessarily painful, and unless the injured man indulges too freely in drink, causing them to swell and get red, very bad scars can be avoided. The swords used are so razor-like that they cut without bruising, so that the lips of the wounds can be closely pressed, leaving no great disfigurement, such, for examples, as is brought about by the loss of an ear.\"\n\nSometimes, students who did not fence would scar themselves with razors in imitation, and some would pull apart their healing cuts to exacerbate the scars, although this was generally frowned upon. Others paid doctors to slice their cheeks. The number and extremity of scars was reduced in more recent times, and the custom of obtaining dueling scars started to die off after the Second World War.\n\nRoughly 300 fencing fraternities (Studentenverbindungen) still exist today and most of them are grouped into umbrella organizations such as the Corps, Landsmannschaft or the (DB) in the Federal Republic of Germany, Austria, Switzerland and several other European nations. Their traditions still include academic fencing and dueling scars.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2795826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2795826", "title": "EGranary Digital Library", "text": "EGranary Digital Library\n\nThe eGranary Digital Library is a product of the WiderNet Project, a non-profit aimed at providing internet and library services in developing countries.\nIn 2000 Cliff Missen and Michael McNulty founded WiderNet to \"provide training and research in low-cost, high impact uses of information technologies in developing countries\". Missen developed the idea after studying at the University of Jos in Jos, Plateau State, Nigeria, the year before as a Fulbright Scholar. While studying and teaching in Nigeria through the program, Missen experienced first-hand frustrations the lack of Internet access caused. This frustration led to his vision of the WiderNet project with the objective of providing training and research in low-cost, high-impact uses of information technologies in developing countries. \n\nThe WiderNet Project has shipped over 1,600 computers, 50,000 books, and more than 1,600 eGranary Digital Libraries to schools, clinics, and universities in Africa, India, Bangladesh, and Papua New Guinea since 2000. They have also trained almost 5,000 people on topics including policy planning, enterprise management, technician training, and classroom technology.\n\nIn 2001 Cliff Missen invented the eGranary Digital Library. There are now eGranary installations in more than 1,600 schools, clinics, and universities in Africa, India, Bangladesh, Papua New Guinea, and Haiti.\n\nAn eGranary Digital Library caches educational resources via a local area network in order to reduce connectivity costs in Internet-scarce areas. Most eGranary subscribers do not have an Internet connection, but those who do can open resources up to 5,000 times faster from the eGranary Digital Library.\n\nThe eGranary Digital Library contains an off-line collection of approximately 35 million educational resources from more than 2,500 Web sites and hundreds of CD-ROMs and fits on a 6TB hard drive. The collection includes more than 60,000 books in their entirety, hundreds of full-text journals, and dozens of software applications.\n\nSome of the documents in the eGranary Digital Library are in the public domain, some carry a copyleft license, but most of them have been provided by their authors and publishers as a contribution to global education. About 6% of the content in the eGranary Digital Library is not available on the public Internet; much of it typically requires a subscription or payment, but authors and publishers have agreed to provide it for free to people in low-bandwidth situations.\n\nAny subscriber can include their own digital content in the eGranary Digital Library, making it a publishing platform for communication and collaboration.\n\nThe eGranary Digital Library contains a built-in proxy server and search engine similar to the Internet at a speed that is otherwise not usually available to its users. The proxy server allows users' Web requests to \"play-through\" to the Internet if a connection is available.\n\nSince many patrons of the eGranary Digital Library are unfamiliar with using the Internet, WiderNet Project hires librarians worldwide to assist partners in locating specific resources. The eGranary's interface includes a word search that Lucene and Solr power; an online public access catalog that VuFind funds, which contains over 60,000 records; and dozens of portals experts from around the world cooperatively develop.\n\nSince 2010, the eGranary Digital Library includes interactive Web 2.0 features in its Community Information Platform. Thanks to a generous grant from the Intel Corporation in 2010, the Community Information Platform was developed to allow users to create and share their own content through technologies like built-in Web editors, LDAP security, Moodle, WordPress, MySQL, PHP, Drupal, and others. Subscribers can set up unlimited Web sites on their server and use free, built-in software to make Web pages, upload files and share local information with each other.\n\nOne of the guiding principles of the eGranary Digital Library is that the content must not be sold for profit. The WiderNet Project pledges this to authors and publishers when seeking their permission and each subscriber institution signs a license agreement stating that they will make the content freely available to their patrons via their local area networks.\n\nTo build a reliable, self-sustaining service, the WiderNet Project has developed a business model that aims to cover ongoing program and development costs through grants, donations, sponsored training programs, and volunteers. So far the organization has raised and spent over $1,200,000 in 15 years to develop, field test and promote the concept. Volunteers from around the world have put in more than 30,000 hours to assist with computer programming, collecting and organizing new resources, creating portals and curriculum, and building and distributing new libraries.\n\nWhile grants and gifts fund the development of new features, subscribers buy eGranary drives at a highly subsidized rate, just enough to recover production costs without making a profit. Subscribers cover the costs of basic librarianship; the costs of the purchase, testing, and preparation of the equipment; the transaction costs (like marketing, licensing, and accounting); and the costs of providing on-going technical support and software updates.\n\nSeveral value-added resellers integrate the eGranary Digital Library into their offerings. Additionally, young entrepreneurs in developing countries have joined the WiderNet Project's Field Associate program, offering on-site installation and training in their countries.\n\nSince they incur no bandwidth costs, some subscribers share their eGranary via wireless networks to create free wireless public libraries, or knowledgespheres, in their communities.\n\nThe eGranary Digital Library represents the collective efforts of thousands of authors, publishers, programmers, librarians, instructors and students around the globe. Some of the many authors and publishers who have granted permission to distribute their works via the eGranary Digital Library include Wikipedia, the Khan Academy, TED, the Centers for Disease Control, Columbia University, Cornell University, MIT OpenCourseWare, UNESCO, the World Bank, the Hesperian Foundation, and the World Health Organization.\n\nThere are several research publications on the eGranary, mainly by two scholars and their colleagues, each representing different research foci. Cliff Missen and colleagues have written several articles focussing on the contribution of the eGranary to low-bandwidth settings, notably Africa. Their research includes an overview of how the eGranary can provide web pages and multimedia files to under-resourced areas and counter the challenges of low bandwidth, as well as be an experiment to create metadata through crowd cataloging. \n\nBonny Norton and colleagues at a rural community library in Uganda carry out another area of scholarly work on the eGranary. Their research discusses student and teacher library users’ identities in light of their use of the eGranary, which had been donated to the library. The eGranary gave the student users a new range of identities to choose from, and the identities of the students in charge of the eGranary evolved as they went from being newcomers to being expert users. The eGranary also opened up for future imagined identities, such as ones related to working with technology. Teachers were positive and developed their technological skills but also recognized some challenges.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18103197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18103197", "title": "Education in Malawi", "text": "Education in Malawi\n\nEducation in Malawi stresses academic preparation leading to access to secondary school and universities. However, few students go on to high school or university. The dropout rate is also very high particularly among primary school pupils.\n\nPrimarily schools are mostly in two categories of assisted (public) and unassisted (private) schools. Villages and hamlets throughout the country have such schools. By 1970, there were approximately 2,000 primary schools for 35 percent of primary school aged youth. About 12 percent of all primary school students attended private, predominantly church run schools. \n\nSecondary education developed late in Malawi, because of little effort or neglect in secondary education during the colonial era. Malawi has five types of secondary schools. These include aided boarding schools, aided day schools, government boarding-secondary schools, government day secondary schools, and private secondary schools. Most secondary teachers are qualified and hold either degrees or diplomas.\n\nIn the curriculum, Agriculture is a compulsory subject for all students. Wood working, metal work, and technical drawing are encouraged for boys, and home economics is encouraged for girls. One of the biggest criticisms of secondary schools in Malawi is that they are too university-oriented and needs more technical skills taught. Most students immediately enter the workforce and need a different orientation. Therefore, Secondary schools do not produce as many graduates as the labor market demands. In fact, only one-fourth of Malawi's youth end up attending secondary school. \n\nThe government established free primary education for all children in 1994, which increased attendance rates, according to UNICEF. In 1994, the gross primary enrollment rate was 133.9 percent, and the net primary enrollment rate was 102.6 percent. In 1995, 62 percent of students entering primary school reached grade two, and 34 percent reached grade five. The dropout rate is higher among girls than boys.\n\nPrivate schools have risen in Malawi and offer an alternative to public schools. Private schools include school like Phungu, Lilongwe Girls,Hossana private School and Sunnyside School. Some consolidates private schools are run by the Designated Schools Board.\nMany independent schools have been set up as charitable foundations in Malawi with a specific targeted pupil. \nThe Jacaranda Foundation, founded by nanny Marie Da Silva, maintains the Jacaranda School. It is Malawi's only entirely free school for primary and secondary students. The vast majority of students of the Jacaranda School are orphaned by the HIV/AIDS pandemic, as featured on 2008 CNN Heroes.\n\nThe Joyce Banda Foundation is a foundation that runs schools for primary and secondary schools in Malawi.\n\nThe Raising Malawi foundation is in the process of building a school aimed at female education in Malawi.\n\nThe Youth of Malawi foundation has built a solar-powered, rainwater harvesting primary school in the village of Chimphamba, in the Mchinji district of rural Malawi.\n\nUniversity fees recently increased sixfold to about £380 per year, more than double Malawi’s legal minimum wage. \n\nThe Malawi University of Science and Technology (MUST) was established on 17 December 2012 by the Malawi University of Science and Technology Act No. 31 of 2012 as the fourth Public University in Malawi. It was officially opened in the 2014 by Professor Peter Mutharika, LL.B(Hons), J.D.S. It's situated in the prestigious shire highlands in Thyolo, Malawi. This institution is occupying a total plot area of and has total building area of . The seating capacity of this university is 3000 but can accommodate about twice that seating capacity. Evidently, this University will hugely contribute the government of Malawi efforts to widening access to higher education.\n\nOnce fully operational, the University will have the Malawi Institute of Technology, Ndata School of Climate & Earth Sciences, Academy of Medical Sciences and the Bingu School of Culture and Heritage. The Malawi Industrial Research and Technology Development Centre will be part of the MIT\n\nMalawi's first and largest tertiary educational institution is the University of Malawi. \nIt was founded in 1964, and is separated into several campuses.\n\nThe university was founded in 1997 and is one of the principal universities of Malawi. The school is located in Mzuzu city in the northern region of the country.\n\nThe university is located in Montfort campus in Chiladzulu District in Malawi. It was established in 2004 and opened in 2006, with faculties of social science and education. It now additionally offers economics, Marketing, Business Administration and accounting.\n\nThe Ministry of Education develops the curricula used in Malawi's schools and oversee teacher training. Teachers take both pedagogical and academic courses. Supervised practical teaching is expected before teaching independently. Most teachers begin as primary school teachers in a demonstration school adjacent to teacher training facilities. Later, block teaching is tried during which the teacher trainee tries teaching a class on their own for six weeks. Three types of lecturers educate potential teachers. Graduate teacher educators chair most departments, aided by diplomate and nondiplomate assistants.\n\nMalawi has four professional teaching Grades (PT) of primary school teachers. The PT4 teacher holds a Malawi School Certificate of Education(MSCE) which is four years of secondary school education, and a two-year Teachers Certificate. PT3 is obtained after going through interviews after serving for fours at PT4 Grade. PT2 and PT1 they are also obtained through interviews. However, PT2 is an administrative grade (Deputy Head teacher) while PT1 is reserved for the head teacher, primary education advisors and field supervisors.\n\nSecondary school teachers are trained at the School of Education. This school awards three types of professional qualifications, which are: Diploma of Education, Bachelor of Education and the University Certificate of Education.\n\nMalawi citizens who serve as professors constitute 30 percent of the university's faculty. In 1977, a total of 87 of the 199 working faculty or 87 percent were expatriates. While 27 percent of the professoriat were from Malawi and a further 48 percent were pursuing advanced degrees abroad. There is a need both to upgrade or develop personnel currently serving as professors and to train many more Malawians to fill these posts.\n\nDAPP Malawi operates 4 teacher training colleges to meet the need for more primary school teachers in rural areas. Wungwero Book Foundation trains teacher librarians at the DAPP teacher training college. AYISE, a large non-governmental organization based in Blantyre, Malawi, provides education at its youth center and works with local schools.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "234382", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234382", "title": "Elephant (2003 film)", "text": "Elephant (2003 film)\n\nElephant is a 2003 drama film edited, written and directed by Gus Van Sant. It takes place in the fictional Watt High School, in the suburbs of Portland, Oregon, and chronicles the events surrounding a school shooting, based in part on the 1999 Columbine High School massacre. The film begins a short time before the shooting occurs, following the lives of several characters both in and out of school, who are unaware of what is about to unfold. The film stars mostly new or non-professional actors, including John Robinson, Alex Frost, and Eric Deulen.\n\n\"Elephant\" is the second film in Van Sant's \"Death Trilogy\"—the first is \"Gerry\" (2002) and the third \"Last Days\" (2005)—all three of which are based on actual events.\n\n\"Elephant\" was generally praised by critics and received the Palme d'Or at the 2003 Cannes Film Festival, in which Patrice Chéreau was the head of the jury. The film was controversial for its subject matter and allegations of influence on the Red Lake shootings.\n\nMr. McFarland is driving erratically down a residential street on the way to drop off his son John. John notices damage to the car and realizes that his father is drunk, so John instructs him to move to the passenger seat and let him drive.\n\nAlex and Eric are bullied at school by the so-called jocks, one of whom diverts a teacher and throws a spitball at Alex during science class. Later, Alex and Eric are shown at home ordering weapons from a website and receiving a rifle in the mail. While Alex is taking a shower, Eric gets in with him. He claims that he has never been kissed, and the two kiss. The two formulate an attack plan. The next day, Alex and Eric prepare for the shooting, then make their way to school in silence in Alex's car.\n\nAfter arriving at school, Alex and Eric encounter John outside and tell him to leave, as some \"heavy shit's about to go down\". Realizing what is about to happen, John attempts to warn others not to enter the school, to mixed effect as a few students listen to him but others, as well as a teacher, do not and enter into the building. He also tries to find an adult to get help from but cannot. The two gunmen then enter the school, and after their plans to blow up parts of the school with propane bombs fail, begin shooting indiscriminately. A friendly student named Elias photographs them entering the library where they open fire, shooting several students, including a bespectacled outcast named Michelle and presumably Elias.\n\nRealizing that the gunfire is real, students now begin to panic, while teachers attempt to quickly evacuate the building; an African-American student named Benny silently walks the halls and helps some students escape to safety with aplomb while nearing Alex. John's father shows up and can offer no consolation to his devastated son as they see the school burning and hear gunshots and screams. The two boys separate, continuing their killing spree. Alex enters the bathroom where three popular girls named Brittany, Jordan and Nicole are, presumably shooting all three. The school principal, Mr. Luce, cornered by Eric in a hallway, begs Eric to lower his weapon and talk to him, but Eric yells, \"I ain't putting \"shit\" down!\" and fires at him. He does speak to Mr. Luce, however; while he is doing so, he turns without warning to see an approaching Benny and shoots and kills him before Benny could stop Eric's attack. Eric turns back to Luce and warns him to take heed of what's happened from bullied students and initially lets Mr. Luce go, before smiling evilly and changing his mind by firing several shots down the hall that strike and kill the principal.\n\nAlex enters the cafeteria, which is strewn with overturned chairs, backpacks, several dead bodies, and numerous abandoned half-eaten lunches, and sits down. Alex picks up a cup from an abandoned lunch and casually drinks from it. Eric meets up with him, and they have a brief conversation, which ends when Alex shoots Eric in mid-sentence. Alex leaves the cafeteria, showing no emotion over shooting Eric, and discovers Carrie and Nathan in a freezer. He tauntingly recites \"Eeny, meeny, miny, moe\" to them to decide whom he should kill first. The film then cuts to credits leaving the ending ambiguous.\n\n\nThe film began as a television film that Van Sant had intended to make about the Columbine High School massacre; eventually, the idea of a factual account was dropped.\n\n\"Elephant\" was filmed in Van Sant's hometown, Portland, Oregon, in late 2002, on the former campus of Whitaker Middle School (previously Adams High School). Whitaker was closed by the Portland Public Schools in 2001 due to structural problems and safety concerns with the school building. The Whitaker/Adams building, completed in 1969, was torn down in 2007.\n\nThe script was \"written\" to its final form during shooting, with cast members improvising freely and collaborating in the direction of scenes.\n\nJT LeRoy (a pen name for author Laura Albert) is credited as an associate producer for the film.\n\nThe title \"Elephant\" is a tribute to the 1989 BBC short film of the same name, directed by Alan Clarke. Van Sant originally believed Clarke's title referred to the parable of the blind men and an elephant, in which several blind men try to describe an elephant, and each draws different conclusions based on which body part he touched, and Van Sant's film uses that interpretation, as the same general timeline is shown multiple times from multiple viewpoints. Later, Van Sant discovered Clarke's film referred to the phrase \"elephant in the room\" (the collective denial of some obvious problem).\nAlso, Gus Van Sant named Chantal Akerman's film \"Jeanne Dielman, 23 quai du Commerce, 1080 Bruxelles\" (1975) an inspiration.\n\nClarke's film \"Elephant\" reflects on sectarian violence in Northern Ireland. Van Sant's minimalist style and use of tracking shots mirrors Clarke's film.\n\nA drawing of an elephant as well as an image of an elephant on a bed throw can be seen in Alex's room while he plays the piano.\n\nThe film competed at the Cannes Film Festival in May 2003. Van Sant claimed audiences in attendance at Cannes argued over its quality, leading to altercations.\n\n\"Elephant\" premiered in North America at a benefit for the Outside In youth shelter at the Arlene Schnitzer Concert Hall, in Portland, Oregon, on Saturday, October 4, 2003, with several teenagers who appeared in the film in attendance. The film was released for incremental distribution by HBO in 38 theaters in the United States, beginning October 24, 2003.\n\nThe film opened in a limited release in North America on October 24, 2003 in 6 theaters and grossed $93,356 with an average of $15,559 per theater ranking 36th at the box office. It ended up making $1,266,955 domestically and $8,745,067 elsewhere for a total of $10,012,022, above its $3 million budget.\n\n\"Elephant\" received mainly positive reviews from critics and has a score of 73% on Rotten Tomatoes based on 158 reviews with an average rating of 7.1 out of 10. The critical consensus states \"\"The movie's spare and unconventional style will divide viewers\".\" The film also has a score of 70 out of 100 on Metacritic based on 37 critics indicating \"generally favourable reviews\".\n\nRoger Ebert praised the film and gave it 4 out of 4 stars writing \"Gus Van Sant's \"Elephant\" is a violent movie in the sense that many innocent people are shot dead. But it isn't violent in the way it presents those deaths. There is no pumped-up style, no lingering, no release, no climax. Just implacable, poker-faced, flat, uninflected death. Truffaut said it was hard to make an anti-war film because war was exciting even if you were against it. Van Sant has made an anti-violence film by draining violence of energy, purpose, glamor, reward and social context. It just happens. I doubt that \"Elephant\" will ever inspire anyone to copy what they see on the screen. Much more than the insipid message movies shown in social studies classes, it might inspire useful discussion and soul-searching among high school students.\"\n\nThe Red Lake shootings that occurred in 2005 was briefly blamed on the film, as it was viewed by gunman Jeff Weise 17 days prior to the event. A friend of Weise said that he brought the film over to a friend's house and skipped ahead to parts that showed two students planning and carrying out a school massacre. Although they talked about the film afterwards, Weise said and did nothing to make anyone suspect what he was planning.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3937155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3937155", "title": "Faith school", "text": "Faith school\n\nA faith school is a school in the United Kingdom that teaches a general curriculum but which has a particular religious character or formal links with a religious organisation. The term is most commonly applied to state-funded faith schools, although many independent schools also have religious characteristics.\n\nThere are various types of state-funded faith school, including Voluntary Aided (VA) schools, Voluntary Controlled (VC) schools, and Faith Academies.\n\nSchools with a \"formal\" faith designation may give priority to applicants who are of the faith, and specific exemptions from Section 85 of the Equality Act 2010 enable them to do that. However, state-funded faith schools must admit other applicants if they cannot fill all of their places and must ensure that their admission arrangements comply with the School Admissions Code.\n\nNote that legislation varies between the countries of the United Kingdom since education is a devolved matter.\n\nThe Education Act 1944 introduced the requirement for daily prayers in all state-funded schools, but later acts changed this requirement to a daily \"collective act of worship\", the School Standards and Framework Act 1998 being the most recent. This also requires such acts of worship to be \"wholly or mainly of a broadly Christian character\". The term \"mainly\" means that acts related to other faiths can be carried out providing the majority are Christian.\n\nIndependent schools are exempt from this provision, so it has always been possible to have an independent (not state-funded) school with no act of worship or with acts of worship relating to non-Christian religions. However, many schools that were originally church schools are now largely state funded, as are some Jewish schools. These are allowed to have acts of worship \"in accordance with the beliefs of the religion or denomination specified for the school\". Until 1997, the UK funded only Christian or Jewish faith schools (Muslim schools existed but were privately funded), but the 1997–2007 Labour Government expanded this to other religions, and began using the term \"faith school\".\n\nEducation in England includes various types of state-funded faith school, including Voluntary Aided (VA) schools, Voluntary Controlled (VC) schools, and Faith Academies.\n\nThe two main providers of faith schools in England are the Church of England and the Catholic Education Service.\n\nIn 2011, about one third of the 20,000 state funded schools in England were faith schools, approximately 7,000 in total, of which 68% were Church of England schools and 30% were Roman Catholic. There were 42 Jewish, 12 Muslim, 3 Sikh and 1 Hindu faith schools.\n\nFollowing the 2010 Academy Act, many faith schools converted to Academy status, and are sometimes known as Faith Academies. Many Free Schools have also been created with a religious designation, and these are also sometimes referred to as Faith Academies. All academies can set pay and conditions for staff, and are not obliged to follow the National Curriculum. However the Department for Education \"will not approve any application where we have any concerns about creationism being taught as a valid scientific theory, or about schools failing to teach evolution adequately as part of their science curricula.\"\n\nVoluntary Aided and Voluntary Controlled faith schools follow the same National Curriculum as state schools, with the exception of religious studies, where they are free to limit it to their own beliefs.\n\nThe Welsh Government provides statutory support to education that recognises a religious dimension, including funding. All publicly supported schools are Christian in character. They can give priority to teachers of the faith and to pupils of the faith where oversubscribed. The Anglican Church in Wales runs 172 primary and secondary schools in Wales. The Catholic Education Service runs 89 schools in Wales. The school buildings and land are owned by the Church, but running costs and 90% of the maintenance are covered by the state. 51% of teachers are Catholic and is required that the Head Teacher, Deputy Head, and Head of Religious Studies are Catholic. St Joseph's Catholic and Anglican High School is the only faith school in Wales for both churches.\nCardiff Muslim Primary School, and Ihsan Academy are independent Muslim schools (taking boys and girls) in Cardiff.\n\nAlthough schools existed in Scotland prior to the Reformation, widespread public education in Scotland was pioneered by the Church of Scotland, which handed over its parish schools to the state in 1872. Charitably funded Roman Catholic schools were brought into the state system by the Education (Scotland) Act 1918. This introduced state funding of Catholic schools, which kept their distinct religious education, but access to schools by Catholic clergy and requirement that school staff be acceptable to the Church were retained. The Catholic schools remain as \"faith schools.\" The others are effectively secular and are known as \"non-denominational\" schools. The subject of religious education continues to be taught in these non-denominational institutions, as is required by Scots Law.\n\nIn Scottish Catholic schools, employment of non-Catholics can be restricted by the Church; often, one of the requirements for Catholic applicants is to possess a certificate that has been signed by their parish priest, although each diocese has its own variation on the method of approval. Non-Catholic applicants are not required to provide any religious documentation. Certain positions, such as headteachers, deputy heads, religious education teachers and guidance teachers are required to be Roman Catholic. Scottish faith schools have the practice of school-wide daily assembly/worship; some Catholic schools even have their own prayer. Whilst maintaining a strong Catholic ethos, Scottish Catholic schools have long welcomed pupils from other faith backgrounds, though they tend to give precedence to non-Catholics who come from religious families and a large number of Muslims also go to Catholic schools.\n\nThe Imam Muhammad Zakariya School, Dundee was the only Muslim school in the UK outside England, and was an independent school, until its closure in 2006.\n\nIn the early part of the 20th century, the majority of schools were owned and run by either the Catholic or Protestant churches.\n\nThe Protestant schools were gradually transferred to state ownership under Education and Library Boards (ELBs) responsible to the Department of Education, but with an Act of Parliament to ensure that the ethos of the schools conformed to this variety of Christianity, and giving the churches certain rights with respect to governance.\n\nThe Catholic schools are not owned by the state but by trustees, who are senior figures in the Church. However, all running costs are paid by the ELBs and all capital costs by the Department of Education. The employment of teachers is controlled by the Council for Catholic Maintained Schools, who are the largest employer of teachers (8,500) in Northern Ireland. The 547 Catholic schools teach 46% of the children of Northern Ireland. Teachers are not required to be of the Catholic faith, but all those in Catholic primary schools must hold a Certificate in Religious Education.\n\nWhile the Protestant and Catholic schools were theoretically open to all, they were almost entirely of their own religious sectors, so starting in the 1980s, a number of so-called integrated schools were established.\n\nAs of 2010, the great majority of schools in Northern Ireland are either Catholic or Protestant, with relatively few integrated, a situation called \"benign apartheid\" by Peter Robinson, the First Minister of Northern Ireland.\n\nAn analysis of 2010 English school data by \"The Guardian\" found that state faith schools were not taking a fair share of the poorest pupils in their local areas, as indicated by free school meal entitlement. Not only was this so at the overall national level, but also in the postcode areas nearby the schools. This suggested selection by religion in England was leading to selection of children from more well-off families.\n\nIn 2002, Frank Dobson, to increase inclusivity and lessening social division, proposed an amendment to the Education Bill (for England and Wales) to limit the selection rights of faith schools by requiring them to offer at least a quarter of places to children whose parents belong to another or no religion. The proposal was defeated in Parliament.\n\nHowever, in October 2006, Bishop Kenneth Stevenson, speaking on behalf of the Church of England, said, \"I want to make a specific commitment that all new Church of England schools should have at least 25% of places available to children with no requirement that they be from practising Christian families.\" This commitment applies only to new schools, not existing ones.\n\nIn 2005, David Bell, the head of the Office for Standards in Education said \"Faith should not be blind. I worry that many young people are being educated in faith-based schools, with little appreciation of their wider responsibilities and obligations to British society. This growth in faith schools needs to be carefully but sensitively monitored by government to ensure that pupils receive an understanding of not only their own faith but of other faiths and the wider tenets of British society\". He criticised Islamic schools in particular, calling them a \"threat to national identity\".\n\nAlthough not state schools, there are around 700 unregulated madrassas in Britain, attended by approximately 100,000 children of Muslim parents. Doctor Ghayasuddin Siddiqui, the leader of the Muslim Parliament of Great Britain, has called for them to be subject to government inspection following publication of a 2006 report that highlighted widespread physical and sexual abuse.\n\nIn September 2007, attempts to create the first secular school in Britain were blocked. Dr Paul Kelley, head of Monkseaton High School in Tyneside, proposed plans to eliminate the daily act of Christian worship and cause \"a fundamental change in the relationship with the school and the established religion of the country\".\n\nIn November 2007, the Krishna-Avanti Hindu school in north-west London became the first school in the United Kingdom to make vegetarianism a condition of entry. Additionally, parents of pupils are expected to abstain from alcohol to prove they are followers of the faith.\n\nIn November 2007, the Jewish Free School in north London was found to be discriminating for giving preference to children with distant Jewish relations in its under-subscription criteria. Giving preference to children born to Jewish mothers is permitted as it is a religious rather than a race issue.\n\nIn January 2008, the Commons Children, Schools and Families Select Committee raised concerns about the government's plans for expanding faith schooling. The general secretary of the Association of Teachers and Lecturers, Dr. Mary Bousted, said \"Unless there are crucial changes in the way many faith schools run we fear divisions in society will be exacerbated. In our increasingly multi-faith and secular society it is hard to see why our taxes should be used to fund schools which discriminate against the majority of children and potential staff because they are not of the same faith\".\n\nLong standing opponents of faith schools include Humanists UK and National Secular Society. In 2008, the campaign group the Accord Coalition was founded to ensure state funded schools teach about the broad range of beliefs in society; do not discriminate on religious grounds and are made suitable for all children, regardless of their or their parents’ religious or non-religious beliefs. The campaign, which seeks to reform the faith school sector, brings together a range of groups and individuals, including educationalists, civil rights activists and both the religious and non-religious.\n\nIn June 2013, the Fair Admissions Campaign was officially launched, the campaign aims to abolish the selection of pupils based on their faith or that of their parents at state funded schools in England and Wales. The campaign has support from both religious and non-religious organizations at both the national and local level including the Accord Coalition, the Association of Teachers and Lecturers, the British Humanist Association, British Muslims for Secular Democracy, ICoCo Foundation, the Centre for Studies on Inclusive Education, Ekklesia, the Hindu Academy, the Liberal Democrat Education Association, Richmond Inclusive Schools Campaign, the Runnymede Trust, the Socialist Educational Association, the General Assembly of Unitarian and Free Christian Churches.\n\nIn October 2013, the Theos Think Tank published a research study on faith schools, titled \"More than an Educated Guess: Assessing the evidence\", which concluded that there is evidence for the \"faith schools effect boosting academic performance but concludes that this may reflect admissions policies rather than the ethos of the school.\" John Pritchard, Chair of the Church of England's Education Board, welcomed the results of the study, stating that \"I am pleased to see that this report recognises two very important facts. The first is that faith schools contribute successfully to community cohesion; they are culturally diverse and there is no evidence that there is any social division on racial or ethnic grounds. The second important fact acknowledged in the Theos report is that faith schools do not intentionally filter or skew admissions in a way which is designed to manipulate the system.\" The study also stated that much \"of the debate [about faith schools] is by nature ideological, revolving around the relative rights and responsibilities of parents, schools and government in a liberal and plural society.\" The Bishop of Oxford concurred, stating that \"children are being denied the chance to go to some of Britain’s best schools because antireligious campaigners have turned attempts to expand faith schools into an ideological battle-ground\". Responding to the report, BHA Chief Executive Andrew Copson commented, \"Although the report masquerades as a new, impartial, survey of evidence surrounding \"faith” schools, it is in fact more like apologetics for such schools. The report omits evidence, misrepresents evidence and even makes basic errors about types of school and types of data that undermine its claim to be taken seriously. We have produced a detailed analysis of its many flaws, which runs to pages.\"\n\nIn June 2014, the Observer newspaper reported the results of a survey indicating that 58% of voters believe faith schools should not be funded by the state or should be abolished. In 2015 the Commission on Religion and Belief in British Public Life concluded that faith schools are \"socially divisive\" and should be phased out. Since the start of 2016, as an indirect consequence and to cut costs, councils of many local governments in England and Wales ended or proposed to end free transport to many of those schools, much to the displeasure of affected families, while some other councils gradually did even before the survey was conducted. Similar effects, politically, are also felt in Scotland. Socially, in fact, the Humanist Society Scotland sued the Scottish Government and was granted a judicial review challenging the government ministers over their decision not to allow pupils to decide for themselves whether they take part in religious activities occurring in schools. A substantive hearing is expected to be in early 2017.\n\nIn 2017, the Conservative Prime Minister Theresa May pledged to remove the 50% Rule (introduced in 2010) which limits the proportion of places that free schools with a faith designation can allocate with reference to faith. This led to much campaigning on both sides of the debate.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13925853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13925853", "title": "Gask", "text": "Gask\n\nGask, or \"gasque\", is a kind of Swedish student party which starts with a more or less formal dinner. The word is believed to have originated from the card game vira, popular in the 19th century.\n\nIn some cities, gask is generally used to refer to a party with a formal dress code. Students at Stockholm University and the Royal Institute of Technology generally use the term gasque to refer to a gask where the dress code is a student boilersuit.\n\nIn some cases, Gasque might also be the name of an actual building, often a building belonging to the student union arranging the gasque, as in the case of Chalmers University of Technology in Gothenburg.\n\nMany universities also have thematic gasques, as well as slasques, which are less tidy gatherings.\n"}
{"id": "31332398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31332398", "title": "General History of Africa", "text": "General History of Africa\n\nThe General History of Africa (GHA) is a two-phase project undertaken by UNESCO from 1964 to the present. The 1964 General Conference of UNESCO, during its 13th Session, instructed the Organization to undertake this initiative after the newly independent African Member States expressed a strong desire to reclaim their cultural identity, to rectify widespread ignorance about their Continent’s history, and to break free of discriminatory prejudices. Phase One, which began in 1964 and was completed in 1999, consisted of writing and publishing eight volumes which highlight the shared heritage of the peoples of Africa. Phase Two, which began in 2009, focuses on the elaboration of history curricula and pedagogical materials for primary and secondary schools on the basis of the eight volumes of the GHA. Phase Two also focuses on the promotion of the use and harmonization of the teaching of this collection in higher education institutions throughout the Continent. Phase Two also concerns the implementation of these materials in schools in Africa and the Diaspora. The objective of both Phase One and Phase Two of the project is to re-appropriate the interpretation and writing of African histories and to demonstrate the contribution of African cultures past and present to the history of humanity at large.\n\n\nThe project encompasses two of UNESCO’s key priorities- Africa and Education. Africa, in terms of a response to urgent development needs at the national level and to accompany the regional integration process; and education because this issue is a fundamental human right and the very basis of development and responsible citizenry. African peoples expressed their desire to “decolonize” the history of their Continent in order to deconstruct the traditional prejudices and clarify the truth of the African past. The project also takes into consideration modern teaching tools, such as internet resources and multimedia platforms, to ensure that learning is an interactive discovery process. Africa was never cut off from the rest of the world, and benefitted from mutual exchange and influences with Asia, the Middle East, Europe, and the Americas. The slave trade, slavery, and colonization had a considerable impact on the fragmentation of the Continent. The African Diaspora that resulted contributed in a significant manner to the creation of new cultures and societies. The Pedagogical Use of the General History of Africa aims to develop curriculum that highlights the African contribution to the progress of Humanity, African shared values, interaction with the rest of the world.\n\nIn this perspective, the creation of the African Union (AU) and the implementation of the NEPAD philosophy of developing Africa-led solutions to African challenges offered a new and favorable context for a political leadership committed to African regional integration and provided a mechanism for addressing history teaching within the continent as a whole. Furthermore, the Action Plan of the Second Decade for Education in Africa (2006 to 2015), which emphasizes the strengthening of the links between education and culture and improving the quality of pedagogical content, constitutes an ideal framework for the implementation of the project.\n\nArticle 7 of the Charter of African Cultural Renaissance adopted in 2006 in Khartoum at the Heads of State Summit stipulates that:\n\n(1964–1999) Following their decolonization in the early 1960s, African countries expressed a strong desire to recover their ownership of their past and the production of knowledge regarding their heritage. The African member states of UNESCO were then called upon to re-affirm their cultural identities and reinforce the common aspiration to achieve African unity. Part of these efforts included combating certain preconceptions including the assumption that the lack of written sources made it difficult to engage in serious study or production of African history. The conventional reading of history also needed to be challenged in order to depict a more accurate picture of the African continent, of its cultural diversity, and its contribution to the general progress of humankind. Thus, at its 16th Session (1964), the General Conference of UNESCO invited the Director-General to undertake the elaboration of a General History of Africa. In this framework, the General History of Africa was written and published in eight volumes, with a main edition in English, French and Arabic. Additional publications have been produced in Chinese, Portuguese, Russian, German, Italian, Spanish, and Japanese. Furthermore, twelve studies and documents on related themes as well as an abridged version of the main edition in English, French, Kiswahili, Hausa and Fulfulde were published. This tremendous undertaking represented thirty five years of cooperation between three hundred and fifty experts from Africa and from the rest of the world. This work involved some of the most eminent African scholars such as Cheikh Anta Diop, Joseph Ki-Zerbo, Theophile Obenga, Ali Mazrui, Gamal Mokhtar, Bethwell A. Ogot, etc.\n\nThe main preoccupation of Phase 1 was to provide a culturally relevant perspective based on an interdisciplinary approach with a focus on the history of ideas and civilizations, societies and institutions. To that end, it was envisaged to develop an African centered point of view using African sources, such as oral traditions, art forms and linguistics. It was decided as well to adopt a continental perspective of Africa as a whole avoiding the usual dichotomy between North Africa and Sub-Saharan Africa. This shift in perspective is reflected by the significant number of renowned African scholars who contributed to this project as members of the International Scientific Committee, editors and authors.\n\nTo tackle this task, made all the more complex and difficult by the vast range of sources and the fact that documents were widely scattered, UNESCO had to proceed in stages. The first stages (1965 to 1969) consisted of gathering documentation and planning the work. Several meetings were held and campaigns were conducted in the field to collect oral traditions and establish regional documentation centers. In addition, several activities were undertaken: including the collection of unpublished manuscripts in Arabic and Ajami (manuscripts in African languages written with Arabic alphabet), the compilation of archival inventories and the preparation of a Guide to the Sources of the History of Africa, culled from the archives and libraries of a number of European and Asian countries and later published in nine volumes.\n\nThe second stage (1969 to 1971) was devoted to the deliberation of complex substantial and methodological questions raised by the compilation of the GHA. It was decided that the GHA should cover three million years of African history, in eight volumes, published in English, Arabic, French, and in African languages such as Kiswahili, Hausa, and Fulfulde.\n\nThe next stage (1971 to 1999) consisted of the drafting and publication. This began with the establishment of the International Scientific Committee to ensure the intellectual and scientific responsibility of the work and oversee the drafting and publication of the volumes. During this period, UNESCO organized scientific colloquia and symposia on topics related to the history of Africa most of which were overlooked by researchers. The results of these meetings were published in a series of books entitled “UNESCO Studies and Documents -The General History of Africa”. Twelve studies were published covering a wide range of subjects including: the Slave trade, relations between Africa and the Arab world, relations between Africa and the Indian Ocean,and the role of youth and women.\n\nBearing in mind that history teaching is instrumental in shaping peoples’ identities and in understanding the common ties underlying the cultural diversity in any region, and in order to implement one of the goals initially set for the General History of Africa by its initiators, UNESCO, in collaboration with the African Union Commission, launched in March 2009, Phase II of GHA entitled the “Pedagogical Use of the General History of Africa” project.\n\n(2009–present) In 2009 UNESCO launched the second phase of the project focusing on the implementation of the GHA entitled, the “Pedagogical Use of the General History of Africa.” This phase, which constitutes a priority in the cooperation between UNESCO and the African Union, falls within the framework of the Action Plan of the Second Decade for Education in Africa (2006–2015). The Action Plan emphasizes the strengthening of the links between education and culture and improving the quality of pedagogical contents such as internet resources and audiovisual materials. It further corresponds to recommendations made following several meetings organized by UNESCO before and after the completion of the first phase of the GHA.\n\nIn order to successfully implement the second phase of the project, UNESCO has had to have the project validated by different African institutional and academic stakeholders including the Ministers of Education and various professional associations including historians, history teachers, pedagogues, et al. At the Ministers of Education of the COMEDAF meeting in November 2009, the African Ministers reaffirmed their support for the project and recalled the political leadership of the African Union on the Project. This continued cooperation between the Commission of the African Union and UNESCO has been necessary to facilitate the appropriation of the project.\n\nObjectives:\n“This project gives us a formidable opportunity to develop a pan-African vision that also highlights the contribution of African cultures and civilizations to humankind.” \n\nThe main objective of Phase Two, entitled \"The Pedagogical Use of the General History of Africa\" is to contribute to the regenerating of the teaching of African history on the basis of the General History of Africa in African Union member States with the view to promote the African regional integration process. In particular, the project aims to:\n\nImplementation:\nTo implement the project, UNESCO established a ten-member Scientific Committee (SC) representing the five sub regions of the Continent, entrusted with the intellectual and scientific responsibility of the project. The committee members were designated by the Director General of UNESCO in February 2009 after a series of consultations held with different partners and stakeholders including: the African Union, the Africa Group of UNESCO, the donor country, the African Historian Association, the International Association of Historians, and members of the former International Scientific Committee established for the first phase of the Project. These members are:\nProfessor Alaa El-din Shaheen (Egypt), Professor Taieb El Bahloul (Libyan Arab Jamahiriya), Professor Sifiso Ndlovu (South Africa), Professor Amakobe Florida Karani (Kenya), Professor Adame Ba Konaré (Mali), Professor Jean Michel Mabeko-Tali (Congo), Professor Lily Mafela (Botswana), Professor Elikia M’bokolo (D.R. Congo), Professor Mamadou N’doye (Senegal), Professor Bahru Zewde (Ethiopia).\n\nThe aforementioned members were installed on February 24, 2009 in the framework of the Forum for African Regional and Sub-Regional Organizations to Support Cooperation between UNESCO and NEPAD (FORASUN) that took place in Tripoli (Libya) from February 20–24, 2009, UNESCO organized an Expert Meeting on March 16–17, 2009 to discuss the proposed methodology for the implementation of the project. This meeting was immediately followed by the first meeting of the Scientific Committee (SC), which took place from March 18–20, 2009.\n\nMajor Developments Since the Launch of Phase Two:\n\n1. Organization of an Expert Meeting:\nUNESCO organized on March 16–17, 2009 an Expert Meeting which gathered 35 experts from the different African sub regions, including members of the former International Scientific Committee for the first Phase of the GHA, editors and authors of the GHA volumes, representatives of African sub regional organizations et al. During the meeting, the experts discussed the proposed methodology for the implementation of the project and made concrete recommendations to the SC.\n\n2. Organization of the 1st Meeting of the SC:\nThe SC for the Pedagogical Use of the General History of Africa held its First Meeting from March 18–20, 2009 at UNESCO HQ.[7] The Committee:\n3. Endorsement by the Executive Council of the African Union (AU)\n\n4. Endorsement by the Conference of Ministers of Education of the African Union (COMEDAF)\n5. Designation of Focal Points within the African Ministers of Education (MoE):\n46 African Ministers of Education out of 51 have designated focal points within their ministries to participate in and follow up the implementation of the project.\n\n6. Designation of the drafting Committees for the elaboration of pedagogical tools on the basis of the GHA:\nThe SC for the project met from 24 to 28 October 2010 to designate members of the drafting committees for the common pedagogical content and teachers guides. The Committee selected 30 experts who will compose the above-mentioned committees taking into account competency, gender, and geographical balance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20602370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20602370", "title": "George Lazăr (magazine)", "text": "George Lazăr (magazine)\n\nGeorge Lazăr is a cultural magazine published in Bârlad. The magazine was established on April 15, 1887 by Solomon Haliţă. The editorial committee included G. Constantinescu Râmniceanu, Gheorghe Ghibănescu, Gavril Onişor, V.G. Diaconescu and L. Apostolescu.\n\nThe main objective of the magazine was to cover subjects of interest for the teaching staff. However, besides pedagogy, the magazine also presented articles related to literature, science and culture. The name of the magazine evokes Gheorghe Lazăr, the founder of the first Romanian language school in Bucharest. The magazine promoted the nationalism of Simion Bărnuțiu while he was professor at the University of Iaşi.\n\nThe pedagogical publicistic activity is continuated in Barlad by ”Tribuna pedagogică” magazin (from 1922 until 1923), and by the ”Îndrumări pedagogice” magazin (from 1931 until 1939).\n\nFirst number (partial) year - 1887\n"}
{"id": "21986679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21986679", "title": "George O. Hughes", "text": "George O. Hughes\n\nGeorge Hughes also known as Kwesi Afedzi is a Ghanaian-born American artist specializing in painting, poetry and performance art. He received his Masters in Art Education at The College of Art, Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and Technology, Kumasi.(1992) He received his Master in Fine Arts in Painting at Bowling Green State University, Bowling Green, Ohio.(2001)\n\nHughes' paintings and performance art works have been exhibited internationally in Europe, Africa and America. His work references violence and tragedy of colonialism juxtaposed with contemporary global conflicts. His performance art works are interdisciplinary, combining ritual, poetry, sound effects, video, and allegorical configurations. His large paintings feature human and animal body parts combined with commercial signage and global symbols. His two dimensional works are assemblages often incorporating toys and small robots. \n\nHe is represented in Switzerland, Germany, Luxemburg, and Austria by Artco Gallery based in Herzogenrath, Germany.\nIn Portugal he is affiliated with Influx Contemporary Art Gallery, based in lisbon, Portugal.\nIn Africa he is represented by Artists Alliance Gallery, located in Accra, Ghana.\n\n"}
{"id": "48610119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48610119", "title": "Harry Armytage", "text": "Harry Armytage\n\nWalter Harry Green Armytage (22 November 1915 – 13 June 1998) was a social historian and historian of education at the University of Sheffield. He was later the Gerald Read Professor of Education at Kent State University in Ohio.\n\nWalter Harry Green Armytage was born in Kimberley, South Africa, on 22 November 1915. He graduated with first class honours in the historical tripos from Cambridge University in 1937 and then completed a Certificate in Education and a master's degree.\n\nArmytage's first career was as a history teacher at Dronfield Grammar School in Sheffield. After war service, he joined the University of Sheffield in 1946. He was a social historian and historian of education and wrote a history of English education as well as a social history of engineering and an account of Utopian experiments in England. He was later the Gerald Read Professor of Education at Kent State University in Ohio.\n\nArmytage married Frances Horsfall in 1948 (died 1996). They had one son.\n\nArmytage died on 13 June 1998. After his death, \"History of Education\", journal of the History of Education Society, carried an article in which three colleagues recalled their memories of him.\n\n"}
{"id": "11454999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11454999", "title": "Heather McHugh", "text": "Heather McHugh\n\nHeather McHugh (born August 20, 1948) is an American poet.\n\nHeather McHugh, a poet, translator, educator and caregiver-respite provider, was born in San Diego, California, to Canadian parents. They raised McHugh in Gloucester Point, Virginia. There, her father directed the marine biological laboratory on the York River. She began writing poetry at age five and claims to have become an expert \"eavesdropper\" by the age of twelve. At the age of seventeen, she entered Harvard University. One notable work was \"Hinge & Sign: Poems 1968-1993\", which won the Bingham Poetry Prize of the Boston Book Review and the Pollack-Harvard Review Prize, and which was named by \"The New York Times Book Review\" a \"Notable Book of the Year\". Another was \"Glottal Stop: Poems by Paul Celan\" which, with Nikolai B. Popov, she co-translated and introduced; the book won the Griffin International Poetry Prize.\n\nMcHugh was elected a Chancellor of the Academy of American Poets in 1999. She taught for some 40 years at American colleges and universities, including the University of Washington in Seattle; and she still takes some students through the low-residency Warren Wilson College MFA Program for Writers.\n\nIn 2009, she was awarded the MacArthur Foundation \"Genius Grant\" for her work. and in 2011-2012, she started the non-profit CAREGIFTED ( http://caregifted.org ) to provide respite and tribute to long-term caregivers of the severely disabled and chronically ill. For her work there she received notice from Encore.org's Purpose Prizes.\n\nMcHugh has published eight books of poetry, one collection of critical essays, and four books of translation. She has received numerous awards and critical recognition in all of these areas, including several Pushcart Prizes, the Griffin Prize in poetry, and many others. Her poems resist contemporary identity politics. She also rejects categorization as a confessional poet, although she studied with Robert Lowell during the time when that described his work.\n\nHer primary education included parochial school, where she credits a nun's emphasis on grammar as an early influence. When McHugh was a student at Yorktown High School in Arlington, Virginia, a teacher advised McHugh against applying to Radcliffe, making her determined to get in. She arrived in Cambridge at age 17 and graduated with honors, receiving her B.A. from Harvard in 1970. She was a Fellow at Cummington Community for the Arts in 1970, and entered graduate school at the University of Denver in 1971, having already published a poem in \"The New Yorker\". She began teaching there, and received an Academy of American Poets prize in 1972. After earning her M.A. in 1972, McHugh received MacDowell Colony fellowships in 1973, 1974, and 1976. In 1974, she also received her first of three National Endowment for the Arts grants in poetry. McHugh was the poet-in-residence at Stephens College in Missouri between 1974 and 1976; she worked as an associate professor of English at the State University of New York at Binghamton between 1976 and 1982.\n\nAt 29, she completed a manuscript of poems titled \"Dangers\" (1976), that was a winner of Houghton Mifflin Co.'s New Poetry Series Competition, and was published by Houghton Mifflin in 1977. After a Yaddo Colony fellowship in 1980, her second book, titled \"A World of Difference: Poems\" (1981), was published by Houghton Mifflin. McHugh was 33. During this time, she was a visiting professor at Warren Wilson College in the M.F.A. Program for Writers in North Carolina; at Columbia University in New York between 1980 and 1981; and at the University of California, Irvine in 1982. During 1987, she was the Holloway Lecturer at the University of California in Berkeley. While the top journals published her poetry, some poems were also anthologized in prestigious collections, and top critics called her observations astute and noteworthy as well as courageous.\n\nThat same year \"World of Difference\" came out, her first book of translations was published. Her poetry translation of Jean Follain's French work is titled \"D'après tout: Poems by Jean Follain\" (1981) and was published by Princeton University Press in the Lockhart Poetry in Translation series. In 1984, she became the Milliman Writer-In-Residence at the University of Washington in Seattle. The residency was initiated that same year, and McHugh filled the position until 2011 when she was appointed Pollock Professor of Creative Writing. During the 1980s, McHugh worked a great deal on translation, partly due to her alliance with her co-translator and husband at that time, who also taught at the University of Washington. Her translation work includes well-known international poets like Follain and Rilke, as well as Romanian Jewish poet of the Holocaust Paul Antschel, who wrote under the pseudonym Paul Celan. This latter translation, entitled \"Glottal Stop: Poems by Paul Celan\", would win the Griffin International Poetry Prize. (See reference below.)\n\nHer skill in translating literature by Slavic writers became even more evident with the publication of \"Because the Sea Is Black: Poems of Blaga Dimitrova\" (1989) featuring the work of a Bulgarian poet and novelist. Dimitrova, one of the best-loved writers in her homeland, became the first democratically elected vice-president of her country after the fall of communism. McHugh translated Dimitrova's poems for \"Wesleyan Poetry in Translation\" (published by the Wesleyan University Press) with her husband, Nikolai Popov, a scholar whom she married in 1987. Popov, an expert in Bulgarian and knowledgeable in the German and French languages, also helped to translate Celan's poetry, which was written in German.\n\nIn 1986, McHugh received a Bellagio grant from the Rockefeller Foundation. She published two more books of poetry during the 1980s: \"To the Quick\" (1987) and \"Shades\" (1988). In the late '80s, she also participated in an art project with Tom Phillips, resulting in a collectible book \"WHERE ARE THEY NOW?: The Class of Forty-Seven\" (1990). It consists of thirty images by Phillips which are interpreted in poems by McHugh and then further modified by Phillips. One of Phillips's images, \"A Humument: A Treated Victorian Novel,\" from the collaboration is appropriately used on the cover of McHugh's essay collection \"Broken English: Poetry and Partiality\" (1993).\n\nIn 1994, \"Hinge & Sign: Poems 1968-1993,\" a collection of 24 new poems and selected poems from her five earlier books, was published by the Wesleyan University Press. The book won both the Harvard Review/Daniel Pollock Prize in 1995 and Boston Book Review's Bingham Poetry Prize and was a finalist for the National Book Award. The New York Times Book Review chose this poetry collection as a \"Notable Book of the Year.\" In 1996, after the book's publication, she received a Lila Wallace/Reader's Digest Writing Award.\n\nIn 1998 McHugh received the Folger Library's O.B. Hardison Prize for a poet who excels in teaching. In 1999 she was elected a Chancellor of the Academy of American Poets and received the PEN/Voelker Award. During this year, her poetry was anthologized in The New Bread Loaf Anthology of Contemporary American Poetry, alongside poets laureate like Rita Dove and Robert Pinsky, and other contemporaries like Charles Wright, Lucille Clifton, James Tate, Philip Levine, and Marilyn Hacker. McHugh also began to serve as a judge for numerous poetry competitions, including the National Poetry Series and the Laughlin Prize. She was a member of the Board of Directors for the Associated Writing Programs between 1981 and 1983. She served on the Literature Panel for the National Endowment for the Arts during 1983 and 1986. In 1991, she was the Coal-Royalty Chair at the University of Alabama. In 1992, McHugh was the Elliston Poet at the University of Cincinnati. In 1991, she was the visiting professor at the University of Iowa and, in 1994, at the University of California at Los Angeles.\n\nShe takes editing collections of younger poets seriously, and helped to select poems for \"Hammer and Blaze: a Gathering of Contemporary American Poets\" (2001), published by the University of Georgia Press, which she co-edited with Ellen Bryant Voigt. About her job guest editing \"Ploughshares\" in Spring 2001, McHugh writes, \"The sheer syntactical elegance of many of these new poems suggests an instrumental refinement for which I'm grateful: I'm an old Richard Wilbur/Anthony Hecht fan, and have had reason now and then to regret, during my quarter century of teaching in M.F.A. programs, the relative unfashionability of rhetorical flourish.\"\n\nAt the end of 2001, McHugh's sixth collection of poetry, \"The Father of the Predicaments,\" was published by the Wesleyan University Press. That same year, McHugh, with Nikolai Popov, received the first International Griffin Poetry Prize in translation for \"Glottal Stop: 101 Poems by Paul Celan\". Her next poetry collection, \"Eyeshot,\" was published in (2003) by Wesleyan University Press, and her latest collection, \"Upgraded to Serious,\" was released in 2009 both by Copper Canyon Press in the US and by Anansi in Canada.\n\nMcHugh was a judge for the 2012 Griffin Poetry Prize.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1633123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1633123", "title": "Henderson State University", "text": "Henderson State University\n\nHenderson State University (HSU) is a public liberal arts university in Arkadelphia, Arkansas. Founded in 1890 as Arkadelphia Methodist College, it is Arkansas's only member of the Council of Public Liberal Arts Colleges. Henderson's curricula based on the belief that a liberal arts education is essential for all undergraduates; Henderson utilizes a program based on a core of courses in the arts and sciences. The school owns and operates radio station KSWH-FM, as well as the local Public-access television cable TV channel, HTV on Suddenlink's channel 9.\n\nHenderson State University, was founded on March 23, 1890 as Arkadelphia Methodist College by Rev. John McLaughlin. John Mclaughlin was a veteran of the Confederate States Army. After the Civil War, Rev. McLaughlin and his family settled in Arkadelphia and founded the Arkadelphia Methodist College in 1890. The university was renamed for Charles Christopher Henderson, a Trustee and prominent Arkadelphia businessman, in 1904. In 1911 the name was changed to Henderson-Brown College to honor Walter Brown. The state convention decided to close the institution down after thirty nine years of Methodist control and combine it with Hendrix College in Conway. The student body, administration, and local population strongly disagreed with the idea and after negotiations with state lawmakers, Henderson-Brown was turned over to the state to prevent the merger. Then in 1929, the institution became known as Henderson State Teachers College. Hendrix was renamed Hendrix-Henderson College, and remained so for about two years before returning to Hendrix College.\n\nAfter becoming a public institution, Henderson State Teachers College began to expand at a rate never envisioned while it was under Methodist control. Six major buildings were built during the Great Depression alone. After World War II, the enrollment nearly doubled to about 500 students. Graduate classes were first offered in 1951 through the University of Arkansas. In 1955, the school's first graduate degree program began. To reflect the change, the name was changed to Henderson State College in 1967 and again in 1975 to Henderson State University. Henderson has an excellent academic record. It has produced numerous Rhodes, Fulbright, and Rotary International scholars. It serves as Arkansas’s only member of the Council of Public Liberal Arts Colleges. Currently, degree programs are offered through the Matt Locke Ellis College of Arts and Sciences, the School of Business, the School of Education, and the Graduate School. Henderson has its own degree program in nursing, and it also provides the academic program for the Baptist School of Nursing. The university offers the state’s only four-year bachelor of science degree in aviation. The enrollment in the fall of 2012 was 3,773.\nThe HSU Yearbook is The Star, published continuously since 1904. The University newspaper is the Oracle, which has been published since 1908.\n\nGlendell Jones Jr. was named Henderson State University’s 17th president on Tuesday, March 6, 2012 and officially assumed presidential duties on July 1, 2012.\n\nHenderson State University has an urban campus. Some of the buildings include the Donald W. Reynolds Science Center, Arkansas Hall, McBrien Hall, Mooney Hall, Womack Hall, the Garrison Activity and Conference Center, and Sturgis Hall. Sturgis Hall is a three story building that provides classrooms, laboratories, offices, and student housing for the Honors College. McBrien Hall provides classrooms, offices, labs, and conference rooms for the English, social sciences, philosophy, psychology, sociology, and foreign languages programs. It also holds the administrative offices for Ellis College of Arts and Sciences. The Huie Library serves as the university's library. The library is named after the university's first full-time librarian, Minnie Bell Huie (1934). The library holds over 300,000 books, 100 databases, and 60 student computers.\n\nEllis College is named after Henderson's tenth president and distinguished graduate, Matt Locke Ellis. It was created in 1989 through a reorganization of the existing Fine Arts, Liberal Arts, and Natural Sciences schools.\n\nAllows students to major and earn degrees in Accounting or Business administration. The School of Business offers the only university level aviation program in the state of [Arkansas]. The degree programs are accredited by AACSB International, the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business. The aviation program acts under the direction and rules of Federal Aviation Administration and is in the process of obtaining their own collegiate accreditation.\n\nThe mission of Teachers College, Henderson, is to prepare reflective teachers, school leaders, counselors, and other professionals through quality instruction, service, and research to demonstrate high expectations for individual self-realization. Teachers College, Henderson, offers a comprehensive selection of undergraduate and graduate degrees including the Educational Specialist (EdS) degree and several certifications offered completely online.\n\nThe Honors college is headed by Dr. David Thomson. Honors students participate in different activities on campus and Arkadelphia community events as well.\n\nHenderson Graduate School offers 11 master's degrees, including the MLA, MBA and MAT; 1 Educational Specialist degree; and 4 certification programs.\n\nUpon its establishment in 1905, the Henderson State football team became known for wearing red jerseys. Absent a traditional nickname or mascot, the team was appropriately dubbed the \"Reds.\" Eventually, the name shifted to \"Reddies,\" and it stuck.\n\nHenderson State University is an NCAA Division II school and competes in the Great American Conference. The school fields teams in Baseball, Basketball (Men and Women), Cross Country (Women), Football, Golf (Men and Women), Softball, Swimming (Men and Women), Tennis, and Volleyball.\n\nThe Battle of the Ravine is a rivalry game between Henderson State University and Ouachita Baptist University. It is currently the oldest rivalry of any NCAA Division II institutions. The first game was played on November 8, 1895 (Thanksgiving Day) and Ouachita College beat Arkadelphia Methodist College, 8–0. The next meeting did not occur until 1907 in the first sanctioned game of the series. The Reddies defeated Ouachita and went on to claim the Arkansas State Championship.\n\nThe Reddies went on to win the next six meetings and the game was played on Thanksgiving Day. Both teams also made the game their homecoming. The series was discontinued in 1951 after Henderson won, 54–0, and the pranks got out of control. The series resumed in 1963 with the Reddies, winning 28–13. The series continued until 1993 when Henderson State moved to the NCAA Division II Gulf South Conference. It continued again in 1996 when Ouachita Baptist University moved to the Lone Star Conference. OBU joined the GSC in 2000 and the two schools did not play each other in 2004 or 2005 as a result of schedule rotation. In total, the two schools have met 85 times. Henderson State currently leads the series, 41–39–6.\n\nConsidered one of the finest college marching bands in the country, the \"Showband of Arkansas\" consists of 150 winds, percussion, and auxiliary members. The mission of the \"Showband of Arkansas\" is to represent, foster and promote the \"Reddie Spirit\" through musical and visual performance. Composed of students from all academic disciplines, the \"Showband of Arkansas\" frequently performs as the feature band at high school marching contests, enjoys travel to exciting away-games and regularly thrills thousands of Reddie spectators at home football games. It is open to any student by audition, regardless of major.\n\nHenderson State has eight fraternities as well as six sororities.\n\nFraternities:\n\nSororities: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2310546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2310546", "title": "Hooked on Monkey Fonics", "text": "Hooked on Monkey Fonics\n\n\"Hooked on Monkey Fonics\" is the twelfth episode of the third season of the animated television series \"South Park\". It originally aired on November 10, 1999. It features issues of homeschooling and phonics, a method of teaching children to read. This is the final episode of South Park to feature the voice talents of Mary Kay Bergman, who committed suicide the day after the episode aired. The final episode to use her dialogue was \"Starvin' Marvin in Space\" which ended production shortly before her death.\n\nIn preparation for a spelling bee, Cartman's mother buys him a \"Hooked on Monkey Fonics\" system that features an actual live monkey playing the drums to keep with the beat of spelling and sounding out the words. After spelling a couple of words, Cartman believes he will have a chance to win the spelling bee. While at the spelling bee, the children face stiff competition from two homeschooled children, Rebecca and Mark Cotswalds. Cartman asks the monkey to help him spell his word, \"chair\", but Phonics Monkey is masturbating, and Cartman misspells it as \"C-H-A-R-E\"; angered, he runs off to chase the monkey. In the final round, Kyle is unable to spell his word, \"Kroxldyphivc\" (which in reality isn't an actual word), correctly and Rebecca and Mark are declared the champions. Although Kyle is annoyed at having been beaten, he ends up developing a crush on Rebecca.\n\nMark becomes intrigued by the interactions he sees between Cartman, Kyle, and Stan, and begs his father to be allowed to attend public school. His father objects due to how dangerous public schools can be, but reluctantly relents. At the school, Mark, placed in a largely protective hamster ball by his overpossesive/overprotective father, is tormented for his haughty attitude and superior knowledge, and ends up duct taped to a bench by the other boys. This prompts Mark's father to speak with the adults in Skeeter's Bar and Cocktails about the incident and the fact that Kyle has become smitten with Rebecca and should stop pursuing her. The adults are quick to dislike him as much as the kids dislike Mark; after learning that he does not drink beer but prefers wine coolers, they proceed to duct tape Mark's father to one of the bar's benches.\n\nAfter questioning Mark about why he has never been seen before and why he does not attend school like the other children, Cartman is introduced to the concept of home schooling. The idea of never having to go to school appeals to him greatly, and, using Mr. Garrison's condescending remarks towards him as an excuse, demands to be home schooled himself. To him, this involves a regimen of sleeping in and sitting in bed while snacking and watching television, while his mother unsuccessfully attempts to get him to study. When Stan and Kenny come to visit to tell him about the Bay of Pigs Memorial Dance, Phonics Monkey kills Kenny.\n\nMeanwhile, Kyle makes many efforts to make his feelings known to Rebecca, although several end up humorously unsuccessful. Ultimately he convinces her to explore the world of public schooling, and she agrees to go to the South Park dance with him. He also explains what love is to her and, out of curiosity, she asks Kyle if she can experiment a kiss with him, to which he agrees. After kissing him, Rebecca immediately changes when she agrees to Kyle's dance proposal (\"You bet your sweet ass I'll go.\")\n\nAt the dance, the band Dio plays their song \"Holy Diver\". The boys of the school hatch a plan to duct tape Mark to the flagpole while the adults also hatch a similar plan for Mark's father. When Rebecca enters the dance dressed up promiscuously and kissing every boy in sight, Mark is outraged and attacks Kyle for turning his sister \"into a slut.\" The other boys perceive his beating up Kyle as cool and finally accept him; Randy Marsh breaks up the fight, with Mark warning Kyle he's not through with him. Mr. and Mrs. Cotswald arrive and interrupt the dance, looking for their children so they could leave. Mark gets onstage and makes a speech to his parents (particularly to his father) about the benefits of public schools - \"...it's the main place where children learn all of their social skills. You can't teach a child social skills. They have to learn them themselves.\" Mr. Cotswald, affected by his son's speech, agrees to let Rebecca and Mark regularly attend public school; Rebecca and Kyle then share a kiss. Mark's father, however, is then duct taped to the flagpole in front of the school by the adults, regardless of his change in attitude and opinion. Dio restarts and plays \"Holy Diver\" over the end credits, with Phonics Monkey joining in on drums.\n\nThe character of Rebecca is based on Rebecca Sealfon who won the 1997 Scripps National Spelling Bee. She is one of the most well-known spelling bee winners, spelling her final word, \"euonym,\" by screaming out each letter. She also displayed the odd habit of covering her mouth and whispering each letter before saying it, which was parodied in the episode as well.\n\nKyle's speech to Rebecca about love parodies the \"Star Trek\" episode \"The Gamesters of Triskelion\". Kyle's love confession and kiss with Rebecca parodies a scene between Judah Ben-Hur and Esther in \"Ben-Hur\".\n\nWhen Ronnie James Dio was asked how he felt about \"South Park\"'s parody of him, he said \"I thought it was wonderful. I initially didn't want to let it be done because I felt that they were just going to crucify me [and] that I would end up being like what they did to Rod Stewart, and what they did to Elton John, and what they did to Ozzy. But they assured our office that they were real Dio fans and that I would like it. So I thought to myself \"Well if you want to be an American icon, you better let them do it\". And they did, and I was knocked out. It was funny. I thought they were more cruel to the drummer, if anything else.\"\n\nIn 2006, IGN listed the episode as #10 on their list of their 10 Favorite South Park Episodes.\n\n"}
{"id": "4025703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4025703", "title": "How to Draw Manga", "text": "How to Draw Manga\n\nHow to Draw Manga is a series of instructional books on drawing manga published by Graphic-sha, by a variety of authors. Originally in Japanese for the Japanese market, many volumes have been translated into English and published in the United States. Of the wide range of manga-how-tos available for westerners, the series is seen as one of the more useful, both for its provenance and wide range of practical tips. The English-language volumes in the series were co-produced by Graphic-sha and two other Japanese companies, Japanime Co. Ltd. and Japan Publications Trading Co.\n\nThis is a list of books in the main \"HTDM\" set and other sets that relate to the main series.\n\nOriginally there were no volume numbers on the English versions, because the original Japanese version did not have them. Only volumes 1 - 8 were given numbers. With continued reprints and more books being released, all volumes gained a number. The dates given are the first printing. Several of these books have been discontinued, and are considered hard to find. \n\n\nThis set was printed in a smaller format of 15 cm x 21 cm.\n\n\nEach volume in this set includes a CD-ROM for use with Windows only.\n\n\nThese books are no longer in print and the series has been canceled.\n\nThis set was printed in an over-sized format of 21 cm x 29.6 cm.\n\n\nThis set is another Graphic-Sha publication that is shown alongside the main HTDM series on the dustjacks and in ads.\n\n\nAnother set of manga-know-how with only four volumes, based in character creation.\nNote: Only three of the first printings for this series are below.\n\n\nThese are volumes that were going to be released in English and even advertised for ordering, but they have been cancelled.\n\n\nA special edition of the series titled \"How to Draw Manga Special: Colored Original Drawing\" was produced detailing how to use Copic markers. It explains how to avoid blotches, use colorless blenders, select paper, refill markers, changing nibs and the airbrush system.\n\n"}
{"id": "3608807", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3608807", "title": "International Council on Educational Credential Evaluation", "text": "International Council on Educational Credential Evaluation\n\nThe International Council on Educational Credential Evaluation, commonly known as ICECE, is an international NGO closely affiliated both with UNESCO and the Council of Europe. Its main objectives include research related to international higher education and recognition of qualifications and quality assurance in the field of educational credential evaluation. The Organization is headquartered in Brussels, Belgium.\n\nICECE recognition is widely accepted as the highest international standard of quality assurance in the field of credential evaluation.\n\n"}
{"id": "2414326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2414326", "title": "José Tribolet", "text": "José Tribolet\n\nJosé Manuel Nunes Salvador (José) Tribolet (born 20 December 1949) is a Portuguese engineer, and Professor of Information Systems at the Technical University of Lisbon, Portugal, who became known for his work on speech coding late 1970s.\n\nTribolet received his 5-Year \"Engenheiro\" Degree in Electrical Engineering in 1971 at the Instituto Superior Técnico, Lisboa, Portugal and in the United States at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology his MA in Electrical Engineering in 1974, and his Ph.D. in Computer Science in 1977. In 1998 he spent a sabbatical year as a Visiting Sloan Fellow at the MIT Sloan School of Management.\n\nAfter graduation in 1977 Tribolet started working as researcher at AT&T Bell Laboratories in Murray Hill, NJ. In 1979 back in Portugal he was appointed Full Professor of the Electrical Engineering Department at the Instituto Superior Técnico (Technical University of Lisbon). In 1998 he became Full Professor of Information Systems at the Department of Computer Science and Engineering.\n\nIn Lisbon he co-founded in 1980 INESC - Institute for Systems and Computer Engineering, the first not-for-profit, non-state-owned contract based research organization of Portugal, which he presides ever since. In 2012 he was Visiting Professor at the University of St. Gallen.\n\nTribolet was awarded the IEEE ASSP 1979 Best Paper Award, and the IEEE ASSP 1984 Best Paper Award.\n\nTribolet's research interests are in the fields of \"organizational modeling, business process engineering and information systems architecture.\" According to Tribolet (2007):\n\nTribolet has published numerous articles. A selection: \n\n"}
{"id": "38100310", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38100310", "title": "Kaja Norum", "text": "Kaja Norum\n\nKaja Norum (born April 17, 1989) is a Norwegian model and figurativist painter. A former student and protégé of painter Odd Nerdrum, Norum is devoted to Nerdrum's philosophy of Kitsch painting, and is a part of The Kitsch Movement spawned by Nerdrum. After the latter relocated to France in 2011, Norum is the primary caretaker of his gallery and his estate.\n\nBorn in Lørenskog, Akershus. Norum attended the Rudolf Steiner School in Lørenskog graduating in 2005, after which she enrolled at the Oslo City Steiner School. After graduating from high school in 2008, Norum relocated to Stavern in order to study under kitsch painter Odd Nerdrum at his seaside gallery.\n\nAfter studying under Nerdrum in Stavern for three years, Norum debuted with her own exhibition in June 2011. The exhibition, which consisted of figurative artworks turned out to be a success with the majority of the artworks being sold on the opening day. It attracted large attention with the most famous painting depicting comedian Sturla Berg-Johansen with an erect penis. The painting, \"Homo ludens\" valued at US$14.500, was sold to an anonymous buyer. It was speculated that the buyer was either hotel tycoon Petter Stordalen or business magnate Stein Erik Hagen, however it was later revealed that it was actually a gourmet restaurant in Oslo that had made the purchase.\nIn August 2012 Norum opened her second exhibition, at the Gallery Soon in Son in Vestby.\n\nNorum has done modeling for the magazines \" Det Nye\" and \"Alfa\". In January 2013 she appeared in the magazine \"Kamille\" doing nude photos.\n\n"}
{"id": "19517679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19517679", "title": "Korean Council for University Education", "text": "Korean Council for University Education\n\nThe Korean Council for University Education (KCUE) is a private association of four-year higher educational institutions in the Republic of Korea intended to promote cooperation between universities and represent their interests, particularly regarding university autonomy from state regulation, to the government. It is comparable in some respects to organizations such as the Association of American Colleges and Universities (AAC&U), the German Rectors’ Conference (HRK), or the Japan Association of National Universities (JANU). The KCUE is unique, however, in that the presidents of all South Korean universities, public and private, are required by law to hold membership.\n\nThe KCUE was founded in 1982 and legally consolidated in 1984 during the later period of authoritarian rule in South Korea. It was largely intended to placate growing demands from universities for greater autonomy from a centralized education system that was strictly regulated by the Ministry of Education. During the first several years of its existence, however, the KCUE had little semblance of autonomy from or influence over the authoritarian government at the time and was able to achieve few of its objectives.\n\nWith the beginning of substantial democratization in South Korea in 1987-1988 and the subsequent, gradual liberalization of the higher education system, the KCUE was increasingly able to accomplish its original purposes and expand its functions, particularly in research and training of university staff. By the mid-1990s it had taken on significant responsibilities related to university evaluations and the university admissions system previously under the exclusive purview of the Ministry of Education.\n\nThe KCUE is nominally controlled by a General Assembly composed of the presidents of all member universities. The General Assembly elects a ten to twenty-member Board of Trustees and a Chairman (currently Ewha Womans University President Bae Yong Lee) that make most executive decisions. The Board of Trustees elects a Secretary-General (currently Kyungpook National University Professor Chong Yul Park) that oversees day-to-day operations of the KCUE. The organization's activities are mainly funded by the Ministry of Education and mandatory membership fees from universities.\n\nThe main purposes of the KCUE are to support the development of South Korea’s higher education system by “promoting inter-institutional cooperation concerning major issues common to four-year universities and colleges” and represent the collective voice of universities to the government to “increase the autonomy, initiative, public accountability, and overall quality” of higher education.\n\nThe KCUE’s Research Institute for Higher Education, formally established in 1985, conducts research as commissioned by its member universities or the government. It focuses on research regarding the management and administration of universities, policy options for reform in South Korea’s university admissions system, financial support of universities from private and governmental sources, and the development of university curricula and teaching methods. The Institute's research is published, among other places, in the Korean language journal \"Daehak Gyoyuk\" (\"Higher Education\") .\n\n\"See also\" :Membership Training in Korea\n\nIn order to improve the quality of leadership, instruction, and administration at member universities, the KCUE's Training Center for Higher Education, formally established in 1995 in a separate facility in Daegu, South Korea, trains approximately 2,500 university administrators, faculty, and staff annually in areas of greatest need as requested by universities. The Center uses training seminars, conferences, and programs to disseminate updated research information on university education and administration from the KCUE and other organizations.\n\nSince the mid-1990s the Ministry of Education has gradually delegated much of its authority over the country's admissions process to the KCUE. In late 2004, it announced that the KCUE would decide admissions schedules and develop admissions rules. More significantly, the transition team of incoming South Korean President Lee Myung-bak announced in January 2008 its intention to transfer most responsibilities regarding the university admissions system from the Ministry of Education to the KCUE, which would thus allow universities to decide admission criteria, such as whether to include interviews in admissions processes and how to weight the College Scholastic Ability Test in admissions decisions. Lee had made a promise during the 2007 presidential campaign to give universities greater autonomy.\n\nIn addition to conducting research on accreditation and evaluation in higher education, the KCUE is one of the few formal, albeit voluntary mechanisms of evaluation or accreditation in the South Korean higher education system. It began conducting simple evaluations of its member universities in 1983 and more detailed evaluations beginning in 1994 that included separate assessments at the departmental and institutional level.\n\nIn response to the widely reported scandals in late 2007 involving well-known university professors, government officials, and television personalities in South Korea that had forged academic credentials from both domestic and international universities, the KCUE established its Academic Records Verification Service in September 2007. It currently processes verification requests from any South Korea-based organization to confirm the domestic or international academic credentials of South Korean citizens or foreigners seeking employment at a business, admission to a school, etc. Concerns regarding forged credentials were so widespread that the service received over 500 requests on the first day, and over 10,000 applications were filed within the first ten weeks. The South Korean Ministry of Justice currently uses the KCUE to verify the credentials of all E-2 visa applicants seeking to teach foreign languages such as English in the country.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40193918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40193918", "title": "Mizoram College Teachers' Association", "text": "Mizoram College Teachers' Association\n\nThe Mizoram College Teachers' Association (MCTA) is a governmental, non-political and non-profit organisation for college teachers under the Government of Mizoram, India. It was established by a conference of college teachers on 7 September 1979 at Aizawl, which became its headquarters. The organisation is recognised by the Government of Mizoram, and consists of 21 government colleges and 1 grant-in-aid college.\n\nMembership is exclusively to those teachers working in the college or other higher education institute under the Government of Mizoram, and who were recruited under the norms of the University Grants Commission (India).\n\nThe aims and objectives of MCTA are:\n\n\nMCTA opens membership to teachers of higher education under the Government of Mizoram, but only those appointed according to the norms of UGC. Enrolment requires a fee of INR 100, and annual fee of INR 50. Membership ceases om death, retirement, transfer to other post, and failure to pay fee. Every member is also imposed to contribute a welfare fund of INR 100 and condolence fund of INR 300 annually.\n\nAffiliated colleges of MCTA are called branch members, and include:\n\nMCTA represent the state government colleges to the Academic Council of Mizoram University, under which all member branches are affiliated. Currently, President Thanglura, Vice-President J.H. Zoremthanga, and General Secretary P.L. Ramliana are the representatives.\n"}
{"id": "27337556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27337556", "title": "National Union of Students LGBT+ Campaign", "text": "National Union of Students LGBT+ Campaign\n\nThe National Union of Students LGBT+ Campaign is an LGBT advocacy group that is an autonomous part of the National Union of Students (NUS).\n\nThe NUS LGB are mostly nationally recognisable for their high-profile campaigns.\n\nThe Donation, Not Discrimination campaign, which carried the tag line \"It's time to end the ban\", was a campaign to end the National Blood Service's discrimination against men who have had sex with other men, and women who have had sex with those men; the NBS would not allow them to give blood, a policy built upon the claim that gay men have a higher chance of carrying HIV. The campaign believed the lifetime ban to be discriminatory, and that it perpetuated the myth that AIDS is a “gay disease”. It argued that selection criteria should not be based on sexual orientation, but on participation in high-risk behaviour, and that the number of HIV infections through blood transfusion had been reduced in those countries where this is the case. The campaign ended in 2011 when the Department of Health lifted the ban.\n\nThis campaign has been running since 2007 and is to help students in further education (FE) who want to set up or develop their LGBT groups. The campaign find that participation and support in FE insututions to be limited or non existent and this is to change this.\n\nThe NUS LGBT+ conference is an opportunity for LGBT students activists from across the UK to come together to set the direction for the campaign for the year ahead, to attend workshops and hear speakers, and to network with other LGBT students.\n\nOne of the key functions of the conference is to debate, pass policy which forms the basis of NUS LGBT+'s campaigning and to ammed the constitution of the campaign. All changes to policy and the constitution are submitted by LGBT students or societies, up to 5 for each, previous to the conference which are then compiled by the steering committee.\n\nAt the conference there is the annual NUS LGBT Awards, which started in 2007, to help promote and support the societies which have done things that are considered to be above and beyond the standard.\n\nOfficers and committee members are elected at the annual conference by delegates.\n\nNational officers within the Campaign are elected paid officials who coordinate and fulfil the agenda of the Campaign.\n\nThere are two officers for the NUS LGBT+ Campaign, one woman's place which is and is only elected by self identifying women and open place which is open to anyone who identifies within the membership of the Campaign. The officers can only stand for two years before having to step down.\n\nThe first national officers were elected in 2000, after NUS Annual Conference voted to change the constitution in order for the positions to be created.\n\nCommittee Members are elected representatives which help prioritise the agenda of the campaign and fulfill it. There are currently fourteen positions on the committee of seven types. The maximum term in office is two years in each type, and the representative must be elected each year.\n\nThe Further Education representatives are elected by delegates who are in Further Education and is in Further Education at the time of election. There is currently two positions as Further Education representatives. They are elected to help tackle the lack of participation within the liberation campaign despite the majority of NUS's membership being Further Education and to improve further education for LGBT people. The current representatives are Lani Baird and Joe Vinson, elected at the NUS LGBT Conference 2012.\n\nThe international representative is elected by delegates who identify as international students and can only be run for by someone who identifies as such. There is currently one international representative. They are elected to ensure international students are represented in the campaign.\n\nThe Trans representatives are elected by delegates who identify as trans and can only be run for by someone who identifies as trans. There are currently two positions as Trans representatives. They are elected to help tackle transphobia in the campaign and support trans people in society and education.\n\nThe Bi representative is elected by delegates who identify as bi (or who identify as being attracted to more than one sex under the bisexual umbrella, pansexuals, polysexuals, etc.) and can only be run for by someone who identifies as such. There is currently one position as bi representative. They are elected to help tackle biphobia in the campaign and support bi people in society and education. The current representatives are Lauren Connors and Matt Stanley, elected as a jobshare at the NUS LGBT Conference 2012.\n\nThe black representative comes from and are elected by a caucus of delegates who identify as black, or other ethnic minority. There are currently two positions as black representative, one open place and one women's place, the latter to be held only by self-identifying women. They are elected to help tackle racism in the campaign and support black LGBT people in society and education.\n\nThe Disabled representatives come from and are elected by a caucus of delegates who identify as Disabled. There is currently one position as Disabled representative. They are elected to help tackle ableism in the campaign and support Disabled LGBT people in society and education.\n\nThe open representatives are elected by delegates and can be contested by any delegate. There are currently three positions as open representatives. They are elected to help the campaign in general.\n\nThe women's place representatives come from and are elected by a caucus of delegates who self identify as women. There are currently three positions as women's representatives. They are elected to tackle sexism and help the campaign in general.\n\nThe committee is elected to set the agenda and compile the submitted motions and amendments for annual conference.\n\nSteering Committee 2017:\n\nChair: Luke Robert Allan,\nVice-Chair: Kevin Wilson\n\nOther Committee members:\nVee Cartwright,\nLaura Lunn-Bates,\nEden Ladley,\nZac Snape\n"}
{"id": "875027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=875027", "title": "Official script", "text": "Official script\n\nAn official script is a writing system that is specifically designated to be official in the constitutions or other applicable laws of countries, states, and other jurisdictions. Akin to an official language, an official script is much rarer. It is used primarily where an official language is in practice written with two or more scripts. As, in these languages, use of script often has cultural or political connotations, proclamation of an official script is sometimes criticised as having a goal of influencing culture or politics or both. Desired effects also may include easing education, communication and some other aspects of life.\n\nBelow is a partial list of official scripts used in different countries. Those in \"italics\" are states that have limited international recognition.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6546580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6546580", "title": "Otto Krause Technical School", "text": "Otto Krause Technical School\n\nThe Escuela Técnica Otto Krause is an educational institution located at the intersection of Paseo Colón Avenue and Chile Street, in the San Telmo section of Buenos Aires, Argentina. Named after its founder, the engineer Otto Krause, son of German immigrants, the school was founded in 1897 and is the oldest technological school in the country.\n\nThe school currently has around 2000 students and operates a six-year programme. The first three years (ciclo básico) provide a technical high-school programme for students who have completed their elementary education. Years four to six (ciclo superior) provide the equivalent of a technical college education in various branches of engineering technology. On completion of their studies here students may go on to university to follow a six-year programme leading to a degree in engineering.\n\nThe present school building, which was inaugurated on May 24, 1909, was declared a National Monument in 1995.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19425195", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19425195", "title": "PUBLIB", "text": "PUBLIB\n\nPUBLIB is an electronic discussion list devoted to issues relating to public-library administration and use. It was founded in December 1992 by Jean Armour Polly (then of NYSERNET, Inc., now a librarian in upstate New York) and the late John Iliff. PUBLIB is currently managed by volunteers Sara Weissman and Karen G. Schneider. Housed on the NYSERNET server until March 1997, and then on the UC Berkeley SunSITE until May 2005, PUBLIB is now hosted by WebJunction, a service of OCLC.\n\nFor several years, PUBLIB had a subset, PUBLIB-Net, focused on Internet use in public libraries. Because the Internet has become well integrated into library services, support for PUBLIB-Net as a separate list ended in 2000.\n\nPUBLIB is oriented toward public librarians and public library managers and directors. Subscribers also include library trustees, members of library friends' groups, library-science students and faculty, library journalists, and advocates of librarianship. On June 13, 2010, PUBLIB had 9,684 subscribers in 14 countries, according to data gathered by WebJunction's administrative software.\n\nPUBLIB's subscribers discuss library use and management, library technology, the mission of the library, librarianship as a profession, and library ethics. Operational questions are posed and answered (Hill, p. 34). Postings of library jobs are accepted and encouraged. Friday of each week is devoted to library anecdotes and humor.\n\nOnly subscribers may post to PUBLIB. Instructions for subscribing may be found on PUBLIB's general information page managed by OCLC.\n\nAuthors in the field of library and information science occasionally tap PUBLIB as a resource. One such author described PUBLIB as \"a good cross-section of librarians engaged in public services, administration, technical support, and related responsibilities\" (Sager, p. 73).\n\nPostings from February 1993 to the present have been archived and can be browsed and searched.\n\nPUBLIB mascot and social activities\n\nThe unofficial mascot of PUBLIB is the gadfly, representing the questioning and advocacy that are characteristic of its subscribers. Mary Jane Anderson wrote a pithy response to John N. Berry III editorial about PUBLIB. It is here: http://listserv.oclclists.org/scripts/wa.exe?A2=ind9702&L=Publib&P=R15904&1=Publib&9=A&J=on&K=2&d=No+Match%3BMatch%3BMatches&z=4\n\nPUBLIB participants have gathered informally off the list, either online through personal email messages, through personal visits while traveling, or at library conferences such as those held by the Public Library Association and the American Library Association.\n\nBest of PUBLIB\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42028479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42028479", "title": "Quality Leadership University Panama", "text": "Quality Leadership University Panama\n\nQuality Leadership University (QLU) is a private university founded in Panama City, Republic of Panama on February 18, 1997 and authorized to operate in Panama by Executive Decree. It is located in 45th Street, Bella Vista in Panama City. It’s accredited by the Consejo Nacional de Evaluacion y Acreditacion Universitaria de Panama (CONEAUPA). All its programs are approved by the Comision Tecnica de Fiscalizacion de Panama.\nQuality Leadership University (QLU) was founded on February 18, 1997 by Oscar Leon. More than 1,500 Panamanian and Latinamerican professionals have graduated in undergraduate and graduate programs. It was first located in Credicorp Building in 50th Street and the first program offered was a Master of Education in Training and Development in academic agreement with the University of Louisville.\n\n\n\nGraduate:\nUndergraduate:\n"}
{"id": "9098369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9098369", "title": "Ram Gopal (dancer)", "text": "Ram Gopal (dancer)\n\nBissano Ram Gopal OBE (20 November 1912 – 12 October 2003) was an Indian dancer and choreographer who performed mostly as a soloist and toured extensively throughout his lengthy career. A modernist, he blended the classical Indian dance with balletic choreography, and along with Uday Shankar was among the first to showcase Indian classical dance in the West starting in the 1930s, Polish critic Tadeusz Zelenski called him \"the Nijinsky of India\".\n\nAs a choreographer, he is most known for his productions, \"Legend of the Taj Mahal\", \"Dance of the Setting Sun\" and \"Dances of India\". He is also noted for \"Radha-Krishna\", his collaboration with British ballerina Dame Alicia Markova, in 1960.\n\nGopal was born in Bangalore, India. He was named Bissano, being born on 20 November ( Bees = 20 in Hindi ). He had a Burmese mother and a Rajput father who was a barrister. They lived in a mansion called Torquay Castle. His grandmother was a well known dancer. Drawn to dance early on in his life, he learned Kathakali from Guru Kunju Kurup and Chandu Panickar. Once he danced at the annual garden party of the Maharajah of Mysore without his father's permission, but the Maharaja persuaded his father to allow him receive further dance training.\n\nWhile in this early forties, he discovered Guru Meenakshi Sundaram Pillai of Pandanallur style under whom he started learning Bharatanatyam, followed by Muthukumaran Pillai., he also learned Kathak from Sohanlal and Bowri Prasad and even Manipuri dance, all of which he assimilated into his choreographies in the coming decades.\n\nHe was invited to the United States by La Meri, an American dancer who specialised in non-Western forms of dance to tour with her through Asia in the 1930s. He made his solo debut in New York City on 1 May 1938, at the 46th Street Theatre. In 1939, he was invited to Paris, where he went with Kathak dancer, Sohanlal. and in the same year he made his London debut at the Aldwych Theatre to immediate fame and went on to meet not just Queen Mary, but also made friends with leading figures of the ballet. He returned to India with Ensa during the World War II. After the War, he returned and noted dancer, Nijinsky came to \"inspect him\" in 1948.\n\nHe toured extensively as a soloist and with his company both before and after World War II, and soon his production were known for their costumes, staging and lighting. He appeared at the New York Golden Anniversary International Dance Festival at NYC's City Center in 1948 where he represented India, the Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival in the Berkshires in 1954 and Edinburgh Festivals in 1956. He collaborated with ballerina Dame Alicia Markova to create a duet \"Radha-Krishna\" in 1960, based on Hindu mythology, in which she danced as Radha, while he danced as Krishna. Today their collaboration is commemorated at the National Portrait Gallery, London where her bronze bust stands next to his full-length portrait by Feliks Topolski. In the later years, he also danced with Mrinalini Sarabhai in Bangalore, and toured with Kumudini Lakhia. Another successful dance partnership was with the young and talented Tara Chaudhri whom Ram was very fond of. Dance critic, Cyril Beaumont editor of \"Dance Journal\", wrote about his dancing, \"what impresses one most about Ram Gopal's dancing is the manner in which he is able to assimilate the characteristics of the four schools of technique so completely different in style, costume and mood.\"\n\nHe also danced in the Mumbai school run by the Austrian expressionist dancer Hilde Holger, with whom he remained friends and collaborated with her in their experimental dance style pieces.\n\nIn Kay Ambrose book published in 1950, \"Classical Dances and Costumes of India,\" the book is introduced by Ram Gopal, with foreword by Arnold Haskell containing 53 Illustrations from Photographs and many Drawings by the Author. In this introduction is included a letter Ram Gopal wrote Kay Ambrose from Bangalore, his birthplace in February 1942. The book has many photo's and illustration of Ram Gopal performing these classical dances.\n\nHe published \"Indian Dancing\" in 1951, and his autobiography \"Rhythms in the Heavens\" in 1957., he also opened two dance schools for a short while, first in Bangalore before moving to England and later \"Academy of Indian Dance and Music\" in London in 1962. In his later years he lived in London, Venice and the South of France.\n\nThe French filmmaker Claude Lamorisse made two films about him: \"Aum Shiva\" and \"Ram\".\n\nHe received an Order of the British Empire (OBE) for services to dance in 1999, and the Sangeet Natak Akademi Fellowship, by the Sangeet Natak Akademi, India's National Academy for Music, Dance and Drama in 1990.\n\nDuring the 1960s, while living in Chelsea, London he was briefly married to Edith Alexander, though the marriage ended only a few years later, with her death. The couple had no children.\n\nHe died in Norbury Care Home in Croydon, South London, UK., where he spent the last three-year of his life after unsuccessfully attempting to settle down in his native Bangalore. His stay was sponsored by the Lamorrise family, Croydon Council and the Royal Ballet Benevolent Fund. After cremation his ashes were scattered on the grounds of Lamorrise family chateau in South of France where, he had spent a decade as a house guest of Mrs Claude Lamorrise. Pam Cullen, former cultural advisor to the Indian High Commission and Gopal's close friend, became the executor of the \"Ram Gopal Estate\" and donated some of his costume pieces, especially ornate headgears to V&A Museum, London.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26346625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26346625", "title": "Rankings of universities in South Africa", "text": "Rankings of universities in South Africa\n\nRankings of universities in South Africa are largely based on international university rankings, since there are no South African rankings as of yet.\n\nThese international university rankings indicate that South Africa's university system is the strongest on the continent: it is home to five of the six highest ranked African universities, including the two campuses consistently ranked as academically strongest in Africa, University of Cape Town and University of the Witwatersrand, which are situated in South Africa's two most prominent cities (Cape Town and Johannesburg, respectively).\n\nIn part because of the inherent difficulty of ranking complex educational institutions, there are an expanding number of competing international university ranking schemes, each with a different emphasis. Four of the most prominent are the Times Higher Education World University Rankings (most widely accepted), The Centre for World University rankings (CWUR),QS World University Rankings, and the Academic Ranking of World Universities (ARWU, sometimes referred to as the \"Shanghai Rankings\").\n\nThe 2018 edition of the Times Higher Education (\"THE\") World University Rankings ranked the top South African universities as follows:\n\nThe 2014-15 edition of the QS World University Rankings ranked the top South African universities as follows:\nPrevious years' world rankings are as follows (before 2010 the ranking was known as the Times Higher Education-QS World University Rankings):\nThe 2015 Academic Ranking of World Universities has ranked the top South African universities as follows:\n\nNote: These are the only ranked South African universities.\n\nThe 2015 edition of CWUR ranked the top South African Universities as follows:\n\nURAP, which is a newer ranking scheme based solely on quantitative measures of academic productivity, includes data for a larger number of global universities, and thus gives an alternative view of the relative standing of more South African institutions. The 2016-2017 edition of URAP ranked the top South African Universities as follows:\n\nSeveral international rankings schemes focus on the placement of graduates in business settings.\n\nThis is another \"THE\" ranking which aims to measure the real world success of a University's alumni by ranking Universities according to the number of their graduates that are currently CEOs of Fortune Global 500 companies. The global number one for 2017 is by a considerable margin, Harvard University. The only African University that appears on the Global top 100 is the University of the Witwatersrand. The 2017 South African rankings are as follows:\nThis is a global ranking of universities by the perceived quality of their graduates by top employers around the world. The only African university in the top 150 is the University of the Witwatersrand. The 2013 ranking is as follows:\n\nThis ranks universities according to their popularity among US based billionaires. The only ranked South African university is the University of the Witwatersrand. The 2014 ranking is as follows:\n\nA 2010 report by Centre for Higher Education Transformation identified 3 different university clusters in South Africa, grouped according to function.\nThe input variables used to group universities were:\n\nThe output variables were:\nThe Red cluster constitutes the top research-intensive universities. The Blue cluster consists of institutions focused primarily on technical training, while the Green cluster includes institutions which show characteristics of both missions. The clusters are:\n\nhttps://web.archive.org/web/20160417014732/http://www.4icu.org/topAfrica/\n\n"}
{"id": "31899020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31899020", "title": "Religious and Theological Abstracts", "text": "Religious and Theological Abstracts\n\nReligious and Theological Abstracts is a database that indexes many religious and theological journals and other literature. One \"Guide to Research\" recently described it as a \"popular reference\" covering more than 600 periodicals in most major European languages beginning in 1958. It covers \"a wide array of periodical literature, including Christian, Jewish, and other world religions and some denominational and popular religious magazines.\"\n\nA guide to how to acquire documents for libraries stated that\n\nBecause of the interrelationship between indexing and abstract services and the literature that they document, tools such as \"Religious and Theological Abstracts\" (1958-, Myerstown, PA), \"Religion Index One\" (1949-, Evanston, IL), and \"The Catholic Periodical and Literature Index\" (1930-, Catholic Library Association) often become de facto standards against which many librarians measure their collections. If a journal is indexed by one of these services, it becomes important on the grounds that the index service provides access points to the information contained in the articles themselves.\nA guide to library research stated that \"religion has its primary indexes in \"Religion Index One\", \"Religion Index Two\", \"Religious and Theological Abstracts\", and a few other such titles.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "22163116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22163116", "title": "San Diego World Affairs Council", "text": "San Diego World Affairs Council\n\nThe San Diego World Affairs Council (SDWAC) is an American non-profit organization providing educational programs and activities focusing upon international relations, economics, politics and the culture of people in foreign countries.\n\n"}
{"id": "754224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=754224", "title": "Secondary education in Denmark", "text": "Secondary education in Denmark\n\nSecondary education in Denmark (in Danish: \"ungdomsuddannelse\", \"youth education\") usually takes two to four years and is attended by students between the ages of 15 and 19. Secondary education is not compulsory, but usually free of charge, and students have a wide range of programmes to choose from. Some education programmes are academically oriented, the most common being the \"Gymnasium\". Others are more practically oriented, training students for jobs as e.g. artisans or clerks through a combination of instruction in vocational schools and apprenticeship.\n\nThe Gymnasium has its origin in the cathedral and monastery schools established by the Roman Catholic Church in the early Middle Ages, and seven of the schools established in the 12th and 13th centuries still exist today. The medieval schools had, broadly speaking, only one purpose: to educate the servants of the Catholic Church by teaching them to read, write, and speak Latin and Greek. After the Reformation's official implementation in 1536, the schools were taken over by the Crown; their primary purpose remained preparing students for theological studies, only now it was for the benefit of the Protestant Church.\n\nThis educational base remained nearly unchanged until 1809, when the old Clergyman's School was transformed, in accordance with the spirit of the time, into a humanistic Civil Servant's School, the purpose of which was to \"foster true humanity\" through immersion in the ancient Greek and Latin cultures combined with some teaching of natural science and modern languages.\n\nIn 1871, the scientific and technical development of the 19th century led to a division of the education curriculum into two lines: the languages and the mathematics-science line. This division remained the backbone of the structure of the Gymnasium until the year 2005, when a major reform of the Gymnasium was enacted. Today, each Gymnasium offers a selection of lines decided by each individual Gymnasium. These typically include various linguistic, scientific, and creative lines, as well as combined-subject lines.\n\nIn 1903, the languages line was divided into a classical line, preserving extensive teaching in Latin and Greek, and a modern languages line, in which Latin and Greek were replaced by English, German, and French. At the same time, the three-year course of the Gymnasium was directly connected with the municipal school through the establishment of the \"mellemskole\" (\"middle school\", grades 6-9), later to be replaced by the \"realskole\".\n\nAccording to the latest reform, the Gymnasium still offers three years of general upper secondary education in two lines. The division of the two lines into three branches each has however been replaced by a more flexible system, under which each of the lines contains a core curriculum of obligatory subjects and a number of optional subjects which can be taken at two levels.\n\nThe Higher Preparatory Examination (HF) was introduced in 1967 in a political climate that was characterised by a desire to extend educational possibilities to new groups in society. Originally, it was the idea to create a two-year course aimed specifically at prospective candidates for teacher training. There was however a concern that this concept might result in an educational cul-de-sac. So the course design was changed into an alternative route to further and higher education.\n\nThe students that were entering the new HF-programmes were mainly adults. But from the start, the HF also appealed to young people who for social or personal reasons had not followed the straight route via the Gymnasium to higher education.\n\nThe HF is thus the \"sweeper\" of the general upper secondary education level. In the Gymnasium, there is still an overrepresentation of middle class children (40% male/60% female), whereas the HF recruits its predominantly female students from a broader base of society (30% male/70% female).\n\nThe Higher Commercial Examination Programme (HHX) started in 1888 on a private initiative at Niels Brock's Business College in Copenhagen with a structure, which can mostly be found in the course today. The range of subjects comprised both commercial and general subjects.\n\nIn 1920, the Rigsdag (the parliament of the time) adopted the first business college act, which i.a. entitled the Niels Brock Business College to call itself a \"higher business school\". This act introduced supervision of the activities of the business colleges, and the HHX became a State-controlled examination. In 1927, the first ministerial orders were issued regarding the content of the teaching which in all essentials dealt with the existing teaching.\n\nThe course was managed by the Ministry of Trade until 1965, when the responsibility was transferred to the Ministry of Education.\n\nThe HHX did not originally qualify for admission to universities and other higher education institutions in the university sector. The universities did not consider the general part of the programme sufficient. It was not until 1972, that the HHX was given the status of a university entrance examination in connection with a revision of the content, along with the introduction of more rigorous admission requirements. At the beginning of the 1970s, about half of the Danish business colleges offered the programme. By 1982, the course was offered at all Danish business colleges.\n\nThe Higher Technical Examination Programme (HTX) was established on an experimental basis in 1982. The reason for its establishment was a desire to contribute to a broader supply of education and training possibilities following the EFG-basic courses and a desire to create a new and relevant way of access to higher education in the technical area. In this context, it was of importance that fewer and fewer skilled workers continued at the engineering colleges, whereas the number of general upper secondary graduates increased significantly.\n\nAnother reason for establishing the HTX-programme on an experimental basis was the need to strengthen the status of the technical schools. Broad education and training possibilities at the schools were to provide a broader and qualitatively better recruitment.\n\nIn 1982, the HTX-experiment was carried out at the technical schools in Sønderborg, Aalborg, and Copenhagen. The pilot period lasted until the spring of 1988, after which the programme was evaluated and made permanent after minor adjustments had been made to the individual subjects. On the same occasion, the HTX-examination was granted the status of a university entrance examination, and the graduates were now in principle placed on an equal footing with those of the Gymnasium, the HF and the HHX programmes as far as access to higher education was concerned.\n\nThis section deals with the vocational education and training and basic social and health education programmes.\n\nApprenticeship training in a well-organised form originates in the guilds of the Middle Ages. Each trade had its own guild in each town. The guilds fixed the duration of the training of apprentices, their wages and working conditions and the disciplines they were to learn. It was furthermore the guilds which held the journeymen's tests.\n\nThe basic social- and health-education programmes (SOSU) were introduced in 1991, and the basic education programme for educator assistants was introduced in 1997. These programmes form part of the vocational upper secondary education system in Denmark.\n\n"}
{"id": "29020421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29020421", "title": "Shakespeare Squared", "text": "Shakespeare Squared\n\nShakespeare Squared is a content development company in the United States. The company creates print and digital products for educational and trade book publishers. Their work includes standards-based writing and editing for preK-12 textbooks and workbooks, specialized assessment and test preparation materials, translations, and online content development. \n\nThe company’s office is in Northbrook, IL. In addition to a small in-house staff, the company utilizes a network of more than 2000 freelance editors, writers, and other contributors.\n\nShakespeare Squared was co-founded in 2003 by Kim and Jay Kleeman. High school teachers themselves, the Kleemans decided to join their expertise in language and literature and math and science to offer comprehensive development services across all disciplines and media. While Jay stayed in the classroom, Kim continues to serve as the company’s President and CEO.\n\nFiled for CH 11 bankruptcy. Attorney representing them is Joseph E Cohen. Case #11-05387. Shakespeare Squared has been the subject of numerous complaints by freelancers for lack of payment, and the company was sued in 2013 by the Illinois Attorney General for not paying wages.\n\nWhile Shakespeare Squared has its roots in the educational publishing industry, the company expanded its services in 2008 with the launch of its digital media division, S2EO. S2EO provides content for a wide variety of industries in the business world. Their services include article writing, marketing materials, e-newsletters, social media, white papers, and web content and development.\n\nShakespeare Squared has created projects for CB Richard Ellis, Honor Flight Chicago, Houghton Mifflin, Hudson Highland Group, McGraw-Hill, McDougal Littell, Pearson Education, and Riverside Publishing, among others. Their products include children’s books, teacher guides, student workbooks, and online universities. Samples of their work are:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2370538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2370538", "title": "Shevah Mofet", "text": "Shevah Mofet\n\nShevah Mofet (; also Shevach Moffet) is a high school on HaMasger Street in Tel Aviv, Israel. It was established in 1946 as a vocational school. Since the 1990s, new programs were inaugurated to meet the needs of the Russian immigrant population in Israel.\n\nThe school was originally called Shevah, named after a British World War II pilot, who was the uncle of one of the founders of the school. Founded in 1945, it was the second Hebrew high school in Tel Aviv, after Gymnasia Herzliya. It was founded on the ruins of the Mount Hope farm, founded by Clorinda S. Minor and others. The buildings is a design by the architect Genia Averbuch. \n\nShevah was initially a vocational school teaching trades such as cabinet making, electricity, mechanics and sheet metal works. As the demand for such schools declined, it became an academic high school.\n\nIn the 1990s, with the onset of mass immigration from the former Soviet Union, Shevah introduced a new educational approach to help Russian youngsters from falling behind due to the language barrier. Intensive Hebrew language classes were organized based on proficiency in Hebrew rather than age, and a program for parents was developed that included Hebrew language studies, Jewish history and culture.\n\nIn the 1990s, Yakov Mazganov, a Russian professor employed as a security guard at the school, founded Mofet, a night school for Russian immigrants that operated in the Shevah building after school hours. In turn, this attracted more Russian Ph.D.s and former professors to teach, as they couldn't find a job anywhere else, due to their lack of Hebrew knowledge. Eventually a decision was made to merge Shevah and Mofet and the Russian teachers started teaching in the regular school, which became known as Shevah-Mofet. While classes at the night school often went on in Russian, all classes in the day school were taught exclusively in Hebrew. Mofet is an acronym containing the words Mathematics and Physics, but also means \"excellence\".\n\nThis gave the school a reputation of being one of the best, but also discouraged attendance from many non-Russian students, who did not want to be part of a Russian-speaking high school in Hebrew-speaking Israel. The school was nicknamed 'Little Russia' by many. \n\nIn 1995, the southern Tel Aviv school's team made a sensation by winning the first place on the team competition in Mathematics, hosted by Technion. Later, A Shevah student won a silver medal at an international junior software engineering olympics in Zagreb, Croatia on August 21, 2007, several students won medals on the International Mathematical Olympiad including the gold medal by Lev Buhovsky in 1996 and several silver and bronze medals on the Asian and the International Physics Olympiads.\n\nShevah Mofet has attracted many Russian visitors, notably figures such as Sergei Brin, one of the creators of Google, and Mikhail Gorbachev, the former Soviet president.\n\nOn June 1, 2001, an Arab suicide bomber killed 21 Israeli teenagers in the Tel Aviv \"Dolphi\" discothèque. Seven of the victims were from the Shevah Mofet high school, with more injured.\n\nThe bombing created an international outrage, but also caused many Jewish communities worldwide to donate money to Shevah Mofet. This helped improve the financial situation of the school and create a new library and cafeteria.\n\nIn November 2002, it was discovered that the school cafeteria served expired, or otherwise bad food products. It created a citywide scandal, where the media (newspapers such as Yedioth Ahronoth and Maariv) was involved, as well as the health ministry. Despite this, the cafeteria was still operating and employing the same workers in a repeat check-up in August 2003.\n\nFor many years, Shevah Mofet was a 6-year school organized into a junior-high school (grades 7–9), and a secondary school (grades 10–12). In 2007–08 however, a new organization was introduced, and the school was split into 3 two-grade sub-sections.\n\nThe secondary school has five departments, each focusing on a specific subject. In order of introduction, they are: computers, business administration, robotics, electronics, and Biotechnology. Each department has one classes, for a total of 5 classes per year.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43345991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43345991", "title": "Special education department (Punjab, Pakistan)", "text": "Special education department (Punjab, Pakistan)\n\nSpecial Education Department is a department of Government of Punjab, Pakistan. The department meets the Special education requirements of the disabled children especially, hearing impaired, visually impaired, mentally retarded and physically disabled.\n\nIn 1983-84, the Directorate of Special Education Punjab was established in the Education Department. In 2003, the Special Education Department was established as an independent administrative department.\n\nAt the time of independence, there were only two institutions, one for the Hearing Impaired at Lahore and the other for the Blind at Bahawalpur, functioning under the control of Education Department. A few institutions for the Hearing Impaired children and Visually Impaired children were also being run by the private sector organizations in the Province. Inspectorate of Schools for the Deaf, Dumb and Blind was established under the Education Department during 1962. It was given status of Deaf, Dumb and Blind Wing, headed by a Deputy Director during 1968. These institutions were nationalized in 1975 under Martial Law Regulation MLR-118. The Education Department took over these institutions and initiated various schemes for construction of buildings and to staff them with trained teachers. Directorate of Special Education Punjab was given the status of an attached department of the Education Department during 1983-84. Special Education Department was established as an independent administrative department during 2003-04. Prior to establishment of an independent department of Special Education Department there were 51 institutions in the Province with an enrollment of 4265, which has now risen to 248 catering almost 28850 special children, including 20 institutions of special education devolved from Federal Government as a result of 18th Constitutional Amendment. Presently, special institutions are functioning at every Tehsil and Town Level.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21418988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21418988", "title": "St Joseph's School, Mabiri", "text": "St Joseph's School, Mabiri\n\nSt Joseph's School, Mabiri is a Marist Brothers school on Bougainville Island, the main island of the Autonomous Region of Bougainville of Papua New Guinea.\n\nThe school receives funding from government and non-government organizations, including Australian Aid from Australia and other countries. They have also been helped by Australian Marist students and schools, including St Joseph's College, Hunters Hill and Champagnat Catholic College Pagewood.\n\n"}
{"id": "10904516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10904516", "title": "Student loans in New Zealand", "text": "Student loans in New Zealand\n\nNew Zealand provides student loans and allowances to tertiary students who satisfy the funding criteria. Full-time students can claim loans for both fees and living costs while part-time students can only claim training institution fees.\n\nA non-refundable means-tested student allowance for living expenses can be claimed by students who are over 24 years old or whose parents have a low income. This criterion has caused anger among student bodies who point out that it excludes many self-sufficient adults from help due to parental income levels, and also that by age 24 most people have completed tertiary education.\n\nThe student loan comprises three parts:\n\nThere is a debt eligibility check for new loan applications. It is not possible to borrow through the Student Loan Scheme if you have $500 or more in default at the time of your application, and at least some portion of that amount has been overdue for a year or more. This applies to all new student loan applications received by StudyLink on or after 7 February 2013 and includes all unpaid repayment obligations, late payment interest, penalties and amounts under installment arrangement.\n\nWhile the borrower is a resident of New Zealand, loans are repaid at a rate of 12 cents for every whole dollar of taxable income earned over the repayment threshold of $19,448 per annum ($374 per week), and no interest is charged.\n\nLoan recipients who leave New Zealand accumulate interest after 184 days (about 6 months) abroad, and are assessed on their loan balance for repayment purposes, with a minimum annual payment being required. Loan repayments can be suspended on request for those on no/low income overseas, however interest still accumulates.\n\nFor borrowers in New Zealand with more than one job, it is possible to apply for a student loan special deduction rate for secondary earnings if you earn less than the pay period repayment threshold from your main job.\n\nStudent loans are written off in the event of the borrower dying; their estate is only obliged to pay any outstanding loan repayments up to the date of the borrower's death.\n\nThe loan system has been changed and modified significantly since its inception in 1992. Initially it provided bulk payments to students and charged lower than market interest rates from initial drawdown. This led some students to use this money for investment purposes, benefiting them but leading to a widespread perception of student excesses.\n\nIn 2001 a growing debt mountain caused the Fifth Labour Government to stop interest payments while students studied. Then in 2005 they rode to election on the promise of stopping interest for all those remaining in New Zealand.\n\nFrom 2001, all full-time students were made exempt from interest while studying, and from 2006 all borrowers resident in New Zealand have been exempted from interest. (Technically interest is applied to all loans, but written off if the borrower is resident in New Zealand.)\n\nOn 22 March 2007, the Government introduced a three-year 'loan repayment holiday' for those overseas. In practice this is a uniform extension of the previous ability to waive repayments until a later date. As before, interest accumulates during this period.\n\nThe National Party initially opposed the interest free loans policy, but after it lost the 2005 election, in early 2008 said it would keep interest off student loans. After it was elected to government in the 2008 general election, the Fifth National Government has kept interest off student loans, but has introduced a number of changes designed to make students repay their loans faster, and introduced penalties for loan defaulters.\n\nFrom 1 April 2009, voluntary student loan repayments above $500 in a tax year were awarded at 10% bonus.\n\nIn an effort to increase the repayment rate of borrowers, information sharing between Government departments was introduced in 2010.\n\nFrom 1 April 2012, the maximum time for a repayment holiday was reduced from 3 years to 1 year.\n\nFrom 1 April 2012, access to student loans was cut for people over 55.\n\nFrom 1 April 2013, the repayment rate for student loan deductions increased from 10% to 12% and the voluntary repayment bonus was abolished. (Student allowances were also restricted to four years worth of study.) The changes which came into effect in 2013 were introduced because the Government said it wanted to shift its investment from student support to supporting universities. Changes also raised the minimum mandatory repayments for people earning more than $367 a week. The University Students Association criticised the changes, saying people choosing to pay back loans quickly would no longer be rewarded, and repayment thresholds were too low, at about 34 % below the median weekly income. \n\nThe changes were criticised by Labour Party Tertiary Education Spokesperson, Grant Robertson, who said they would \"dampen demand\" for tertiary education and drive graduates overseas.\n\nIn 2013, the Government announced that the student loan defaulters could be arrested at New Zealand's border. It was an effort to recover $430 million of defaulted student loan debt, \"80 per cent of which is owed by overseas borrowers\". The move was criticised by NZUSA, who said the policy would be ineffectual, and could potentially create \"student loan refugees\" .\n\nAverage student loan balances have increased substantially over time. For instance, a 2007 survey by the New Zealand Union of Students' Associations found that the average student debt was over NZ$28,000, up 54% from 2004. (For comparison, the average annual income (before tax) of New Zealanders aged 15 or more was nearly NZ$35,000.)\n\nThe total student debt reached $5 billion in 2002 and then $10 billion in 2008, and has been growing by approximately $1 billion annually. As of December 2014 student loan debt was $14.2 billion. While student debt has increased, the number of students enrolled in tertiary education has generally declined in recent years. In January 2017 it was estimated 731,800 people, with an average balance of $21,000 had outstanding student loans representing a total of $15.3 billion.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26603031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26603031", "title": "The History Teacher", "text": "The History Teacher\n\nThe History Teacher is a quarterly academic journal concerned with the teaching of history in schools, colleges, and universities. It began in 1940 at the History Department at the University of Notre Dame as the Quarterly Bulletin of the Teachers' History Club. Nuns attending the graduate history program in the summer edited and mimeographed the bulletin. Each issue ran 20-50 pages, with informal teaching tips, evaluations of textbooks, and short thematic essays by Notre Dame professors. Its 110 subscribers were mostly teachers at Catholic high schools in the Midwest.\n\nIn 1967 Notre Dame history Professor Leon Bernard transformed the bulletin into a national quarterly journal under the current title. He brought in a national advisory board of eminent scholars. It included only one professor based in a school of education and only one from a Catholic school. The circulation climbed to 3000. In 1972 Professor Eugene L. Asher brought it to coordinating faculty members at the Department of History at California State University, Long Beach, and built a large staff and attracted essays from prominent scholars. The emphasis shifted from high school to college teachers. Asher set up the Society for History Education as official publisher outside the university chain of command, and it was the vehicle for applying for major federal grants for conferences. The subscriber base reached 4000. Meanwhile, the American Historical Association waxed hot and cold, with many of its leaders hostile to the idea of promoting undergraduate teaching (as opposed to graduate level teaching). It gave no help.\n\nThe journal has articles on history teaching primarily at the undergraduate level, as well as historiography covering a full range of historical topics. It reviews textbooks and monographs of value in undergraduate education.\n"}
{"id": "42630613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42630613", "title": "The Voice of the Performing Arts", "text": "The Voice of the Performing Arts\n\nThe Voice of the Performing Arts is a weekly radio show that explores the importance of arts education. It airs each Saturday at 10:00 a.m. Eastern Time on WICR 88.7, a public radio station at the University of Indianapolis. The show also airs online and via the TuneIn Radio App. It is a one-hour program hosted by Steven Libman, a long time performing arts leader and former CEO of the Center for the Performing Arts in Carmel, Indiana and Jeff Swensson, an arts education advocate and former superintendent of Carmel Clay Schools.\n\nDuring each episode of The Voice of the Performing Arts, guests from the arts community including arts professionals, educators and community leaders discuss the importance of introducing young people to the arts. Discussions include how they personally were drawn to the arts as a child and what can be done today to get young people excited about the arts. The hosts often ask guests to explain the “transformative moment” when he or she fell in love with the performing arts.\n\nThe Voice of the Performing Arts debuted on March 30, 2013. The show originally aired at 1:00 p.m. Eastern Time before moving to the 10:00 a.m. time slot in February, 2014. The guests on the premiere episode included David Hochoy, artistic director of Dance Kaleidoscope; Kathleen Hacker, chair of UIndy’s Department of Music; Alan Davis, president and CEO of the Carmel Symphony Orchestra; and Soo Han, director of the Carmel High School Orchestra. Since the show’s launch The Voice of the Performing Arts has hosted guests from a variety of nationally recognized arts organizations as well as organizations and schools across Indiana.\n"}
{"id": "13927116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13927116", "title": "Top of the Form (quiz show)", "text": "Top of the Form (quiz show)\n\nTop of the Form was a BBC radio and television quiz show for teams from secondary schools in the United Kingdom which ran for 38 years, from 1948 to 1986.\n\nThe programme began on Saturday 1 May 1948, as a radio series, at 7.30pm on the Light Programme. It progressed to become a TV series from 1962 to 1975. A decision to stop the programme was announced on 28 September 1986 and the last broadcast was on Tuesday 2 December. The producer, Graham Frost, was reported to have said it had been cancelled because the competitive nature of the show jarred with modern educational philosophy.\n\nEach school fielded a team of four pupils ranging in age from under 13 to under 18.\n\n\nThe programme was first aired on TV in two special experiments the first on 25 April 1953, featuring Sheffield High School (girls) v. Marylebone Grammar School (boys) . A second TV broadcast was performed in 1954 featuring Lady Margaret High School for Girls (Cardiff) v Solihull School for Boys. The programme fully migrated to TV later. It ran from 1962 to 1975, and was called \"Television Top of the Form\". It began on Monday 12 November 1962, when the Controller of BBC1 was Stuart Hood (Scottish).\n\nThe questions were set by polymath and author Boswell Taylor on behalf of BBC TV and he was assisted by the BBC's Mary Craig who doubled as the scorer and electronic score board operator. In order to set appropriate questions the selected contestants from each school filled in a questionnaire listing their interests, books recently read and favourite music. The teams from co-ed schools usually included two girls and two boys.\n\nCompared to many television quiz shows in recent years, \"Top of the Form\" had a resolutely grandiose outlook; nothing would ever be \"dumbed down\". Consequently, on Monday 18 June 1973 it had its first bilingual competition, with Paris v London. In the same year there was UK v Australia, in the \"Transworld Top Team\". The competition on Monday 25 March 1974 was all in the Welsh language.\n\nIn 1975 the TV version moved to 4.10–4.35pm on Sundays, then from 3.55–4.20, with the last final on 9 August 1975. One of the producers of the TV version was Bill Wright, who would later devise \"Mastermind\" in the early 1970s.\n\nThe tune \"Marching Strings\" (composition credited to \"Marshall Ross\", a pseudonym of Ray Martin) was the theme for many years, though for the last few series, Emerson, Lake & Palmer's recording of Aaron Copland's \"Fanfare for the Common Man\" was used. Earlier, Debussy's \"Golliwog's Cakewalk\", from his \"Children's Corner\" suite, had introduced the radio series.\n\nProducers have included:\n\nThe series tended to feature grammar schools; in later years, as these schools became less numerous, comprehensive schools sometimes featured, but less often, and there was an increasing dominance by independent schools.\n\nHowever, as comprehensive schools were becoming more commonplace under the Harold Wilson government, the autumn 1967 TV series of \"Top of the Form\" featured only comprehensive schools.\n\n\n\n\n\"Top of The Form\" was satirised in the 1960s pre-Python television series \"At Last the 1948 Show\".\n\n\"Natural Born Quizzers\", an episode of Steve Coogan’s comedy series \"Coogan's Run\", involved a thinly-disguised version of the show.\n\nIn 2008, Dave Gorman traced the history of the show on BBC Four.\n\nA similar quiz for British schools in Germany called \"Top Marks\" was broadcast by BFBS Germany.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5400734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5400734", "title": "University City of Bogotá", "text": "University City of Bogotá\n\nThe University City of Bogotá (, \"CUB\"), also known as the White City (), is the flagship campus of the National University of Colombia, located near Teusaquillo, in Bogotá, Colombia. It is the largest university campus in Colombia, with an overall area of and a constructed area of , giving it ample green areas, open spaces, and pedestrian paths. Amongst its buildings are seventeen that have been declared national monuments; these constitute a cross section of the last 60 years of Colombian architecture.\n\nThe University City Rafael Uribe began when Alfonso López Pumarejo, in his first term of office as president of the country, envisioned the National University of Colombia as a modern, evolutionary, and experimental infrastructure including a balance of science and arts. The University City in Bogotá of National University of Colombia may be viewed as an example of the architectonic expression of the modernization of the State from 1930 to the present time.\n\nTo design the university, which had until then distributed academic functions across scattered locations throughout Bogotá and to different governmental organizations, the national government invited architect Fritz Karsen, expert in university subjects, and the architect Leopold Rother to come assist them. Karsen defined and integrated an academic structure in an ellipse form from which radiated the five great academic divisions and his respective dependencies. The scheme was translated by Rother into the proposed space distribution for the in a \"puristic cubism\" style, but with some characteristics of the seat of the famous school of Bauhaus, in Dessau (Germany), with a prismatic volumetry, white and austere.\n\nThe work of architect Leopold Rother is remarkable in that, in addition to participating in the initial planning stages of the campus, designed several specific buildings: the stage Alfonso Lopez (1937), the administrative offices (1937), porters' lodges at the entrances of streets 26 and 45 (1937), faculty housing (1939), research laboratories (1940), the engineering building, in conjunction with Bruno Violi (1940), and the press (1945). Rother stayed in the country as a teacher and influenced several generations of architects formed in the newly created Faculty of Architecture of the University. Of the initial buildings, the set of veterinary medicine and the faculty of architecture, both designed by Erik Lange and Ernesto Blumenthal (1938), the faculty of Alberto Wills Ferro (1940) and the student residences of Julio Bonilla are due to Silver's emphasis (1939 and 1940) and have been declared National Monuments.\n\nThe University City, in its design and construction, has furthered acceptance of modern architectonic language and its condition of paradigm and is considered one of the ten most important works of the century, in Colombia.\n\n"}
