{"id": "8837369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8837369", "title": "Accidental Death and Disability: The Neglected Disease of Modern Society", "text": "Accidental Death and Disability: The Neglected Disease of Modern Society\n\nAccidental Death and Disability: The Neglected Disease of Modern Society was an influential report published in 1966 by the National Academy of Sciences and is considered a landmark in the development of the emergency medical services system in the United States.\n\nThe National Academy of Sciences—National Research Council Committees on Trauma and Shock, a federally funded department of the government, published the report of their research which concluded, in part, that both the public and government were \"insensitive to the magnitude of the problem of accidental death and injury\" in the U.S.; that the standards to which ambulance services were held were diverse and \"often low\"; and that \"most ambulances used in this country are unsuitable, have incomplete … equipment, carry inadequate supplies, and are manned by untrained attendants.\"\n\nThe report led to the design and implementation of the first federally qualified ambulance services and personnel. The reforms inaugurated by the publication of \"The White Paper\" led to higher quality care provided on-scene and in-transit by trained paramedics and EMTs.\n\n"}
{"id": "63552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63552", "title": "Amylase", "text": "Amylase\n\nAmylase () are enzymes that catalyse the hydrolysis of starch into sugars. Amylase is present in the saliva of humans and some other mammals, where it begins the chemical process of digestion. Foods that contain large amounts of starch but little sugar, such as rice and potatoes, may acquire a slightly sweet taste as they are chewed because amylase degrades some of their starch into sugar. The pancreas and salivary gland make amylase (alpha amylase) to hydrolyse dietary starch into disaccharides and trisaccharides which are converted by other enzymes to glucose to supply the body with energy. Plants and some bacteria also produce amylase. As \"diastase\", amylase is the first enzyme to be discovered and isolated (by Anselme Payen in 1833). Specific amylase proteins are designated by different Greek letters. All amylases are glycoside hydrolases and act on α-1,4-glycosidic bonds.\n\nThe α-amylases () (CAS# 9014-71-5) (alternative names: 1,4-α--glucan glucanohydrolase; glycogenase) are calcium metalloenzymes. By acting at random locations along the starch chain, α-amylase breaks down long-chain saccharides, ultimately yielding maltotriose and maltose from amylose, or maltose, glucose and \"limit dextrin\" from amylopectin. Because it can act anywhere on the substrate, α-amylase tends to be faster-acting than β-amylase. In animals, it is a major digestive enzyme, and its optimum pH is 6.7–7.0.\n\nIn human physiology, both the salivary and pancreatic amylases are α-amylases.\nThe α-amylases form is also found in plants, fungi (ascomycetes and basidiomycetes) and bacteria (\"Bacillus\")\n\nAnother form of amylase, β-amylase () (alternative names: 1,4-α--glucan maltohydrolase; glycogenase; saccharogen amylase) is also synthesized by bacteria, fungi, and plants. Working from the non-reducing end, β-amylase catalyzes the hydrolysis of the second α-1,4 glycosidic bond, cleaving off two glucose units (maltose) at a time. During the ripening of fruit, β-amylase breaks starch into maltose, resulting in the sweet flavor of ripe fruit.\n\nBoth α-amylase and β-amylase are present in seeds; β-amylase is present in an inactive form prior to germination, whereas α-amylase and proteases appear once germination has begun. Many microbes also produce amylase to degrade extracellular starches. Animal tissues do not contain β-amylase, although it may be present in microorganisms contained within the digestive tract. The optimum pH for β-amylase is 4.0–5.0\n\nγ-amylase () (alternative names: Glucan 1,4-α-glucosidase; amyloglucosidase; Exo-1,4-α-glucosidase; glucoamylase; lysosomal α-glucosidase; 1,4-α--glucan glucohydrolase) will cleave α(1–6) glycosidic linkages, as well as the last α(1–4)glycosidic linkages at the nonreducing end of amylose and amylopectin, yielding glucose. The γ-amylase has most acidic optimum pH of all amylases because it is most active around pH 3.\n\nAlpha and beta amylases are important in brewing beer and liquor made from sugars derived from starch. In fermentation, yeast ingest sugars and excrete alcohol. In beer and some liquors, the sugars present at the beginning of fermentation have been produced by \"mashing\" grains or other starch sources (such as potatoes). In traditional beer brewing, malted barley is mixed with hot water to create a \"mash,\" which is held at a given temperature to allow the amylases in the malted grain to convert the barley's starch into sugars. Different temperatures optimize the activity of alpha or beta amylase, resulting in different mixtures of fermentable and unfermentable sugars. In selecting mash temperature and grain-to-water ratio, a brewer can change the alcohol content, mouthfeel, aroma, and flavor of the finished beer.\n\nIn some historic methods of producing alcoholic beverages, the conversion of starch to sugar starts with the brewer chewing grain to mix it with saliva. This practice is no longer widely in use.\n\nAmylases are used in breadmaking and to break down complex sugars, such as starch (found in flour), into simple sugars. Yeast then feeds on these simple sugars and converts it into the waste products of alcohol and CO. This imparts flavour and causes the bread to rise. While amylases are found naturally in yeast cells, it takes time for the yeast to produce enough of these enzymes to break down significant quantities of starch in the bread. This is the reason for long fermented doughs such as sour dough. Modern breadmaking techniques have included amylases (often in the form of malted barley) into bread improver, thereby making the process faster and more practical for commercial use.\n\nAlpha amylase is often listed as an ingredient on commercially package milled flour. Bakers with long exposure to amylase-enriched flour are at risk of developing dermatitis or asthma.\n\nIn molecular biology, the presence of amylase can serve as an additional method of selecting for successful integration of a reporter construct in addition to antibiotic resistance. As reporter genes are flanked by homologous regions of the structural gene for amylase, successful integration will disrupt the amylase gene and prevent starch degradation, which is easily detectable through iodine staining.\n\nAmylase also has medical applications in the use of Pancreatic Enzyme Replacement Therapy (PERT). It is one of the components in Sollpura (Liprotamase) to help in the breakdown of saccharides into simple sugars.\n\nAn inhibitor of alpha-amylase, called phaseolamin, has been tested as a potential diet aid.\n\nWhen used as a food additive, amylase has E number E1100, and may be derived from swine pancreas or mould mushroom.\n\nBacilliary amylase is also used in clothing and dishwasher detergents to dissolve starches from fabrics and dishes.\n\nFactory workers who work with amylase for any of the above uses are at increased risk of occupational asthma. Five to nine percent of bakers have a positive skin test, and a fourth to a third of bakers with breathing problems are hypersensitive to amylase.\n\nBlood serum amylase may be measured for purposes of medical diagnosis. A higher than normal concentration may reflect one of several medical conditions, including acute inflammation of the pancreas (it may be measured concurrently with the more specific lipase), but also perforated peptic ulcer, torsion of an ovarian cyst, strangulation, ileus, mesenteric ischemia, macroamylasemia and mumps. Amylase may be measured in other body fluids, including urine and peritoneal fluid.\n\nA January 2007 study from Washington University in St. Louis suggests that saliva tests of the enzyme could be used to indicate sleep deficits, as the enzyme increases its activity in correlation with the length of time a subject has been deprived of sleep.\n\nIn 1831, Erhard Friedrich Leuchs (1800–1837) described the hydrolysis of starch by saliva, due to the presence of an enzyme in saliva, \"ptyalin\", an amylase. The modern history of enzymes began in 1833, when French chemists Anselme Payen and Jean-François Persoz isolated an amylase complex from germinating barley and named it \"diastase\". In 1862, Alexander Jakulowitsch Danilewsky (1838–1923) separated pancreatic amylase from trypsin.\n\nSaccharides are a food source rich in energy. Following the agricultural revolution 12,000 years ago, human diet began to shift more to plant and animal domestication in place of gathering and hunting. Large polymers such as starch are partially hydrolyzed in the mouth by the enzyme amylase before being cleaved further into sugars. Therefore, humans that contained amylase in the saliva would benefit from increased ability to digest starch more efficiently and in higher quantities. Despite the obvious benefits, early humans did not possess salivary amylase, a trend that is also seen in evolutionary relatives of the human, such as chimpanzees and bonobos, who possess either one or no copies of the gene responsible for producing salivary amylase. This gene, AMY1, originated in the pancreas. A duplication event of the AMY1 gene allowed it to evolve salivary specificity, leading to the production of amylase in the saliva. In addition the same event occurred independently in rodents, emphasizing the importance of salivary amylase in organisms that consume relatively large amounts of starch.\n\nHowever, not all humans possess the same number of copies of the AMY1 gene. Populations known to rely more on saccharides have a higher number of AMY1 copies than human populations that, by comparison, consume little starch. The number of AMY1 gene copies in humans can range from six copies in agricultural groups such as European-American and Japanese (two high starch populations) to only 2-3 copies in hunter-gatherer societies such as the Biaka, Datog, and Yakuts. The correlation that exists between starch consumption and number of AMY1 copies specific to population suggest that more AMY1 copies in high starch populations has been selected for by natural selection and considered the favorable phenotype for those individuals. Therefore, it is most likely that the benefit of an individual possessing more copies of AMY1 in a high starch population increases fitness and produces healthier, fitter offspring. This fact is especially apparent when comparing geographically close populations with different eating habits that possess a different number of copies of the AMY1 gene. Such is the case for some Asian populations that have been shown to possess few AMY1 copies relative to some agricultural population in Asia. This offers strong evidence that natural selection has acted on this gene as opposed to the possibility that the gene has spread through genetic drift.\n"}
{"id": "3191896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3191896", "title": "Apportionment (politics)", "text": "Apportionment (politics)\n\nApportionment is the process by which seats in a legislative body are distributed among administrative divisions entitled to representation.\n\nThe simplest and most universal principle is that elections should give each voter's intentions equal weight. This is both intuitive and stated in historical documents such as the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution (the Equal Protection Clause). However, there are a variety of historical and technical reasons why this principle is not followed absolutely or, in some cases, as a first priority.\n\nFundamentally, the representation of a population in the thousands or millions by a reasonable size, thus accountable governing body involves arithmetic that will not be exact. Although it could make representation more exact for a representative's votes (on proposed laws and measures etc.) to be weighted according to the number of his constituents, it avoids complexity in governance, giving equality between representatives, if each elected representative has exactly 1 vote.\n\nOver time, populations migrate and change in number, and preferences change. Governing bodies, however, usually exist for a defined term of office. While Parliamentary systems provide for dissolution of the body in reaction to political events, no system tries to make real-time adjustments (during one term of office) to reflect demographic changes. Instead, any redistricting takes effect at the next scheduled election or next scheduled census.\n\nIn some representative assemblies, each member represents a geographic district. Equal representation requires that districts comprise the same number of residents or voters. But this is not universal, for reasons including the following:\n\n\nA perfectly apportioned governing body would assist but does not ensure good representation; voters who did not vote for their district's winner might have no representative who is disposed to voice their opinion in the governing body. Conversely, a representative in the governing body may voice the opinions held by a voter who is not actually their constituent, though representatives usually seek to serve their own constituents first and will only voice the interests of an outside group of voters if it pertains to their district as well or is of national importance. The representative has the power, and in many theories or jurisdictions the duty, to represent the whole cohort of people from their district.\n\nNations such as Israel and the Netherlands use party-list proportional representation elections. Mexico does so for some of the members of its lower house.\n\nIn this system, voters do not vote for a person to represent their geographic district, but for a political party that aligns with the voter's philosophy. Each party names a number of representatives based on the number of votes it receives nationally.\n\nThis system tallies (agglomerates) more of the voters' preferences. As in other systems parties with very few voters do not earn a representative in the governing body. Moreover, most such systems impose a threshold that a party must reach (for example, some percentage of the total vote) to qualify to obtain representatives in the body which eliminates extreme parties, to make the governing body as orderly in non-proportionate systems. With the minimum votes threshold version, if a subtype of single-issue politics based on a local issue exists, those parties or candidates distancing themselves from a broad swathe of electoral districts, such as marginal secessionists, or using a marginal minority language, may find themselves without representation.\n\nThe vast majority of voters elect representatives of their philosophies. However, unlike district systems (or the hybrid models) no one elects a representative that represents him/her, or the specific region, and voters might reduce personal contact with their representatives.\n\nThere are many different mathematical schemes for calculating apportionment, differing primarily in how they handle rounding of fractional representatives. The schemes can produce different results in terms of seats for the relevant party or sector. Additionally, all methods are subject to one or more anomalies. The article on the largest remainder method presents several schemes and discusses their trade-offs, with examples.\n\nMalapportionment is the creation of electoral districts with divergent ratios of voters to representatives. For example, if one single-member district has 10,000 voters and another has 100,000 voters, voters in the former district have ten times the influence, per person, over the governing body. Malapportionment may be deliberate, for reasons such as favouring equity of groups over equality of individuals. For example, in a federation, each member unit may have the same representation regardless of its population.\n\nThe effect might not be just a vague empowerment of some voters but a systematic bias to the nation's government. Many instances worldwide arise in which large, sparsely populated rural regions are given equal representation to densely packed urban areas. For example, in the United States (see below), the Republican Party benefits from institutional advantages to rural states with low populations, such that the Senate and the Presidency may reflect results counter to the total popular vote. Unequal representation that does not introduce biases into the governing body is not as controversial.\n\nUnequal representation can be measured in the following ways:\n\nEven when electoral districts have similar populations, legislators may draw the boundaries to pursue private agendas; see Gerrymandering.\n\nThe Australian Senate is elected on a basis of equality among the States: all States elect 12 senators. Tasmania, with a population of 502,000, elects the same number of senators as New South Wales, with almost 7.1 million. This was deliberate under the Australian Constitution to protect the less populous States, without which federation would not have been agreed to, and can only be changed via a national referendum.\n\nThere has been malapportionment of electoral districts in both the Federal and State legislatures in the past, often resulting in rural constituencies containing far fewer voters than urban ones and maintaining in power those parties that have rural support despite polling fewer popular votes. Past apportionments in Queensland, Western Australia and the 'Playmander' in South Australia were notorious examples of the differences between urban and rural constituency sizes. In extreme cases, rural areas had four times the voting power of metropolitan areas. Supporters of such arrangements claimed Australia's urban population dominates the countryside and that these practices gave fair representation to country people. (See: Australian electoral system#Gerrymandering and malapportionment.)\n\nIn Canada, each federal electoral district (\"riding\") is represented by one Member of Parliament (MP). Ridings are based on population, but each territory is also given an MP; so Nunavut receives one MP even though its population in 2006 was only 29,474.\n\nCertain provisions in the Constitution and law (the \"grandfather clause\" and the \"senatorial clause\") guarantee that provinces cannot have fewer MPs than they had in 1982. The apportionment method is to grant one MP to each territory, and allocate 279 other MPs according to population among the 10 provinces. After doing so, the provinces with slower historical population growth since joining the Confederation receive extra ridings so as not to lose MPs. After the 1991 Census, 19 extra ridings were created, making a total of 301. After the 2001 Census, seven more ridings were created, making a total of 308.\n\nThat ridings were not eliminated but only added created huge disparities. For example, in 2006 the Peace River riding in Alberta had a population of 138,009, whilst Charlottetown riding in Prince Edward Island had a population of 32,174; yet both ridings received equal representation in the House of Commons. Rural ridings even in populous provinces also tended to have more constituents than urban ridings.\n\nThe Fair Representation Act, passed in 2011 and effective for the federal election that took place in 2015, specified a uniform \"electoral quotient\" of 111,166 (to be readjusted after each future census) but again ensured that no province would lose ridings, increasing the size of the House of Commons to 338.\n\nThe apportionment of seats in the European Parliament between European Union member states uses a principle of degressive proportionality; those with larger population have more Members of the European Parliament (MEPs) but a higher population per MEP. The exact apportionment is specified by negotiated treaty. While most member states elect their MEPs from a single national constituency, six are subdivided into multiple European Parliament constituencies. Those of France, Ireland, and Italy have low variance in population per MEP, as does the UK with Northern Ireland as an outlier. Poland's vary from 559,000 in Warsaw to 1,326,000 in Podlaskie and Warmian-Masurian, the latter figure higher than in any of the states with larger populations. Belgium's division into \"electoral colleges\" is not strictly geographic, but rather by language community, such that voters in the officially bilingual Brussels-Capital Region can vote in either the Dutch-speaking or French-speaking electoral college. The single-MEP German-speaking electoral college significantly overrepresents the German-speaking Community of Belgium.\n\nSince electoral system of Shugiin was changed to Parallel voting in 1994, each prefecture has been guaranteed one seat apportionment regardless of its population. This apportionment method was called \"separated one method\" and the supreme court judged that the system is under unconstitutional state in 2009, 2012, and 2016. \n\nIn 2017, electoral districts were rearranged so that every district does not have twice as large population as another district.\n\nThe voters in rural districts are over-represented in Malaysia while the urban districts are under-represented. The largest parliamentary seat (Kapar) is nine times larger than the smallest one (Putrajaya). On average, the rural parliamentary seats are over-represented by six times compared to the urban seats.\n\nBetween 1881 and 1945 New Zealand applied a system of malapportionment called the country quota, which required urban districts to contain more people than rural ones but did not give them any equivalent increase in representation.\n\nOut of the 169 seats in the Storting, 150 are apportioned among the 19 Counties of Norway with deliberate bias in favor of rural areas. The number of seats for a county is decided using a formula in which a county receives 1 point for every inhabitant and 1.8 points for every square kilometer of land area. However, the bias is reduced by the 19 compensation seats, which are given to parties that are underrepresented. Thus the system does not have a great effect on the partisan composition of the Storting, but does result in more MPs coming from rural counties. Electoral researcher Bernt Aardal calculated that if the 2009 parliamentary election had been conducted without this bias, the Labour Party and Progress Party would both have lost a seat, while the Red Party and Liberal Party would each have gained one, reducing the majority of the Red-Green Coalition from 3 seats to 1.\n\nThe difference in electorates between the districts was a matter before the Constitutional Court and UN Human Rights Committee, both of which found the rights of a candidate not elected in a district with larger electorate to be violated, but did not request new elections.\n\nIn the South African general election of 1948, South Africa's constituency boundaries meant that sparsely populated rural constituencies in the Afrikaner heartland had relatively few eligible voters compared to the urban constituencies in Cape Town. The rural electorates often strongly supported the Reunited National Party, led by Daniel Malan and the urban electorates often supported Jan Christiaan Smuts' United Party (the incumbent prime minister and his party, 90% of whose seats were urban). The 1948 general election saw the Reunited National Party winning more seats than the United Party, meaning that Malan was able to form a government bilaterally with the Afrikaner Party and gain an absolute majority in parliament. This was despite the fact the United Party had won 49% of the vote compared to 38% for Malan's party. By comparison, the British general election of 1945 was also conducted under first past the post but with more equal constituencies, and produced a landslide victory for a party which received 47% of the vote. Malapportionment was a key tool that allowed the National Party to implement its Apartheid program within the notionally democratic parliament.\n\nThe Spanish Congress of Deputies consists of 350 members. Each Spanish province is a constituency entitled to an initial minimum of two seats for a total of 100 seats, while the North African enclaves of Ceuta and Melilla are allocated one member each. The remaining 248 seats are allocated among the fifty provinces in proportion to their populations. The result is that the smaller provinces are virtually guaranteed a minimum of three seats and have a disproportionate share of seats relative to their electorate. For example, in 2004, Spain had 34,571,831 voters, an average of 98,777 voters per deputy. However, the number of voters per deputy varied from 129,269 in Barcelona and 127,377 in Madrid to 38,714 and 26,177 respectively in the smallest provinces of Teruel and Soria.\n\nIn the Spanish Senate each of the forty-seven mainland provinces are assigned four seats, while the three largest islands are allocated three seats each, and the seven smaller islands one each. The North African enclaves of Ceuta and Melilla are allocated two seats each. Additionally, the legislative assemblies of the seventeen autonomous communities into which the provinces of Spain are grouped are entitled to appoint at least one Senator each, as well as one Senator for every million voters. The result is a bias in favour of mainly rural areas. For example, the community of Madrid with 4,458,540 voters in 2004 has 9 senators while Castilla y León with 2,179,521 voters has a total of 39 senators.\n\nThe number of electors in a United Kingdom constituency can vary considerably. This variation has resulted from:\n\nFrom the next General Election the maximum disparity in size of local electorates will be less, about fourfold, from Scotland's Na h-Eileanan an Iar (21,837 voters) and Orkney and Shetland (33,755), to England's East Ham (91,531), and the Isle of Wight (110,924).\n\nPeriodic reviews by the Boundary Commissions are submitted to the House of Commons for approval, primarily to prevent the reemergence of any new rotten boroughs. The House is allowed to ignore or delay implementation of their findings, but not change them. The Sixth Periodic Review of Westminster constituencies, instigated to reduce the number of MPs from 650 to 600 and address the current malapportionment, was suspended until after the 2015 and 2017 general elections, by votes of the House in 2013 and 2016.\n\nApportionment at the federal level of the United States government is guided by the rubrics of the U.S. Constitution. The writers of the Constitution designed the nation's bicameral Legislature to include, a Senate (the upper legislative chamber) to represent the states, and a House of Representatives (the lower legislative chamber) to represent the people rather than the states. Each state—in its entirety—is equally represented in the Senate by two senators, regardless of its population. The constitution guarantees each state at least one representative for its people in the House, while the size of a state's House delegation depends on its total population. Each state is apportioned a number of seats which approximately corresponds to its share of the aggregate population of the 50 states, as determined by the most recent decennial U.S. census. This governance plan came about as a result of the Connecticut Compromise reached during Constitutional Convention of 1787 between delegates from states with a large population and those from states with a small population. The Constitution also prescribes that the President and Vice President be elected by a group of people apportioned among the states in the same numbers as their representatives in Congress, called the Electoral College.\n\nAs the Constitution's apportionment procedures are established solely for the states in the Union, neither the District of Columbia nor the country's territories and possessions are included. Therefore, they do not have the same representation in the federal government as states do.\n\nUnder Article I, Section 3, of the U.S. Constitution, each state has two seats in the Senate. This equality of representation is shielded from being amended by Article V which specifies that no state, without its consent, shall be deprived of having the same number of seats as the others. (Neither the District of Columbia, nor the country's territories and possessions have representation in the Senate, as they are not states.)\n\nSenators from each state were originally elected by that state's legislature, and influenced only indirectly by the voters, through their election of state legislators. The 17th Amendment, ratified in 1913, provided for direct election of U.S. Senators. It did not however, change the principle of equal representation of the states in the Senate, which, as James Madison noted in \"The Federalist No. 39\", ensures a polity of mixed sovereignty, one in which the states are an integral part of the federal government. This, of course, is precisely why those who do not think the Constitution not \"democratic\" enough would wish to remove that portion of the Constitution. The 38 million people who live in the nation’s 22 least populous states are represented by 44 senators, while the 38 million residents of California, the most populous state, are represented by two.\n\nThe House of Representatives, by comparison, is required by Article I, Section 2, to be \"apportioned among the several states... according to their respective numbers.\" The Constitution does not provide for either fractional votes nor Congressional seats spanning states, and guarantees every state at least one Representative. Thus, a resident of a state whose population just barely qualifies for two Representatives has almost twice the relative influence as a resident of a state that does not quite qualify for two.\n\n, based on the Reapportionment Act of 1929, reapportions the Representatives to the states following each decennial census. It left the states to decide how and whether to redistrict, except in the case that the census changes the state's number of Representatives, but federal court cases now require states to redistrict based on each census.\n\nHowever, here too, other criteria take precedence over exact equality of representation. In 2012, the Supreme Court endorsed \"Tennant v. Jefferson County\" the use of other criteria, including the legislature's reluctance to move voters between districts, to put incumbent Congressmen in the same district, and to divide counties between districts, when the State of West Virginia redrew its three Congressional districts with a disparity of 0.79% between the most populous and least populous district.\n\nWashington, D.C. and the five largest possessions are instead represented by non-voting delegates. During the tenure of Speaker of the House Tip O'Neill between 1977 and 1987, these delegates were allowed to vote on legislation except for the final, formal vote on enactment. The country's other possessions do not have any representation in the House.\n\nThe U.S. President is elected only indirectly by voters, through the Electoral College. Under Article II, Section 1, Clause 2, of the U.S. Constitution, the number of electors for every state is the sum of the number of that state's senators and representatives. This was also a result of the original Connecticut Compromise between large and small states. The effect is to give each state a two-elector bonus (for the state's two Senators) regardless of population. A low-population state does not receive one elector in a body of 435, but three electors out of 535. The two-elector bonus is comparatively minor for a state with a high population.\n\nWashington, D.C. did not have a voice in the selection of the President until 1961, when the 23rd Amendment was ratified, giving D.C. the treatment of a state in the Electoral College (\"but in no event more than the least populous State\"; that is, three electors, increasing the total number of electors to 538).\n\nU.S. territories and possessions still have no voice in the selection of the President. In 2000, Puerto Rico attempted to include the U.S. Presidential election on its ballots, knowing that the Electoral College would not count its result. However, the move was declared unconstitutional by the First Circuit Court of Appeals, and the Presidential ballot was not handed out to voters on election day.\n\nA separate obstacle to proportional representation is that almost all of the states choose electors on a \"winner-take-all\" basis, where the state's electors are awarded to the candidate with the most popular votes in that state. Maine and Nebraska are the only states that instead use the \"congressional district method\", selecting one elector within each congressional district by popular vote and awarding two electors by a statewide popular vote. With the \"winner-takes-all\" method used by most of the states, a candidate can still win the presidency without winning the national popular vote (such as what happened in 1824, 1876, 1888, 2000, and 2016).\n\nThe Electoral College denies voters equal influence in the presidential election. However, it induces presidential candidates to campaign outside large population centers and insulates small states from being overwhelmed by election irregularities in large population centers. On the other hand, the electoral college encourages political campaigners to focus on so-called \"swing states\" while ignoring the rest of the country. States in which polling shows no clear favorite are usually inundated with campaign visits, television advertising, get-out-the-vote efforts by party organizers and debates, while \"four out of five\" voters in the national election are \"absolutely ignored,\" according to one assessment.\n\nIn the event that the Electoral College does not produce a majority for any candidate, the 12th Amendment (roughly as Article II, Section 1 had done) throws the election to the U.S. House (the U.S. Senate choosing the Vice President), but under a procedure where each state's delegation, regardless of size, casts one vote—thus giving smaller states more voting power in the event of a deadlock than larger states. For example, Wyoming, with only one representative, has the same power as California, with 53 representatives.\n\nThe United States government was a construct of the thirteen states, and the Constitution's only original constraint on the states was, in Article IV, Section 4, that the federal government \"guarantee to every state... a republican form of government.\" Though the Fourteenth Amendment contains the Equal Protection Clause and bars the states from \"abridging\" voting rights, the text does not address apportionment.\n\nInstead, most state legislatures imitated the Congress, in which the lower house is apportioned by population, while the upper house is apportioned by some other criterion. For example, each county might have one state senator.\n\nIn the 1960s, in cases such as \"Baker v. Carr\" and \"Reynolds v. Sims\" (the \"one man, one vote\" decision), the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that the Equal Protection Clause authorized judicial remedy when a significant disparity in population size arises between electoral districts within a state. The biggest immediate effect was to require that state senate districts have substantially equal populations, as Chief Justice Earl Warren wrote, \"Legislators represent people, not trees or acres.\" These cases also opened apportionment of state houses of representatives to review by the judiciary.\n\nIn most states, the legislature draws the boundaries of electoral districts, including its own; and even court decisions that set aside malapportionment acknowledge that political self-interest plays a role in decisions of the legislature. Legislatures and the majority party can pursue self-interest by gerrymandering—contriving legislative districts to promote the election of specific individuals or to concentrate the opposition party's core constituencies in a small number of districts—or by simply declining to reapportion at all, so that the make-up of a legislature fails to track the evolving demographics of the state. Many states now redistrict state electoral districts following each decennial federal census, as \"Reynolds v. Sims\" required for Congressional districts.\n\nA state may draw districts that span political subdivisions and elect multiple representatives, and may draw floterial districts, to match representation to population more precisely than the U.S. House does (see above).\n\nThe basis of apportionment has also been litigated. In \"Evenwel v. Abbott\" (2016), a unanimous Supreme Court ruled that \"constitutional history, precedent, and practice\" support basing districts on population, even when some districts thus had 40% more voters than others.\n\nArguments for or against change to these institutions often have political overtones. The Democratic Party often advocates change, as it is generally more popular in large cities and many of the more populated states, while the Republican Party often defends the current system, as that party is more popular in rural areas and many of the less populated states.\n\nAny changes would require amendment of the Constitution. But the procedure for doing this also contains protections for states with low populations. Article V, Section 1 requires any amendments to be ratified by three-fourths of the states (currently, 38). Most small states would refuse to ratify any amendment that nullified their traditional advantages.\n\nVarious states have joined the National Popular Vote Interstate Compact, pledging that their legislatures will direct their Presidential electors to vote for whichever presidential candidate wins the national popular vote. This would partly counteract the advantage the Electoral College gives to low-population states, though it might reduce the joiners' influence during presidential campaigns.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28851032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28851032", "title": "CatholicVote.org", "text": "CatholicVote.org\n\nCatholicVote.org is a conservative, non-profit political advocacy group based in the United States. While the organization acknowledges the authority of the Magisterium, it is independent of the Catholic Church. It had a stated a goal of \"electing new pro-life and pro-family candidates to Congress and, of course, electing a pro-life candidate to the Presidency in 2012.\"\n\nCatholicVote.org is divided into three organizations:\n\nCatholicVote.org, a project of Fidelis, a Catholic organization.\n\nCatholicVote.org Political Action Committee is an affiliated non-partisan political action committee which assists selected candidates in their election campaigns. CatholicVote PAC is the group's connected political action committee; its goal is to \"provide qualified candidates with direct financial support while working independently to mobilize voters to elect candidates whom we believe will be faithful stewards of Catholic social teaching and the common good.\" In 2010, it made campaign contributions to six Republicans and one Democrat.\n\nCatholicVote.org Education Fund is a 501(c)3 tax-deductible program which comprises two units: the CatholicVote.org Education Fund and the CatholicVote.org Legal Action Fund.\n\nThe CatholicVote.org domain name was first used by the Catholic Alliance in early 2000. The Catholic Alliance was a grassroots group of Americans who agreed with the platform of the fundamental evangelical Protestant Christian Coalition but wished to widen the Coalition's scope to include Catholics. The Catholic Alliance, formed in 1995, held the website until mid-2002. The next owner of the domain name was Larry Cirignano, founder of Catholic Vote, later called Catholic Citizenship. He used the domain for six years until mid-2008. The Fidelis Center began operating the domain in October 2008, initially redirecting it to CatholicVote.com. The first published articles linked on the site included ones by co-founders Brian Burch and Joshua Mercer. The Fidelis Center subsequently sold the domain to Fidelis, a related, but independent 501(c)4 organization which operates the domain today.\n\nCatholicVote.org is run under the umbrella of the Fidelis Center, a Catholic non-profit group. \"Imagine Spot 1\" was the first release of the national media campaign \"Life: Imagine the Potential\" in 2009. In ten days it recorded over 700,000 hits. The commercial centers around the story of President Barack Obama, showing an ultrasound image and saying that despite a hard childhood, the unborn child will grow up to be President of the United States. The advert was rejected by both NBC for airing during the Super Bowl and CNN for airing during coverage of President Obama's first State of the Union Address.\n\nThe second commercial was also released in 2009, \"Imagine Spot 2\". This commercial featured Nelson Mandela. It was aired in selected markets during the \"American Idol\" season 8 finale.\n\nIn 2010 CatholicVote.org organized a petition urging the United States Postal Service to move forward with issuing a Mother Teresa commemorative stamp despite opposition by the Freedom From Religion Foundation and similar groups. The petition gained over 146,000 signatures.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "185692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=185692", "title": "Civil religion", "text": "Civil religion\n\nCivil religion, also referred to as a civic religion, is the implicit religious values of a nation, as expressed through public rituals, symbols (such as the national flag), and ceremonies on sacred days and at sacred places (such as monuments, battlefields, or national cemeteries). It is distinct from churches, although church officials and ceremonies are sometimes incorporated into the practice of civil religion. Countries described as having a civil religion include France, South Korea, and the former Soviet Union. As a concept, it originated in French political thought and became a major topic for U.S. sociologists since its use by Robert Bellah in 1960.\n\nJean-Jacques Rousseau coined the term in chapter 8, book 4 of \"The Social Contract\" (1762), to describe what he regarded as the moral and spiritual foundation essential for any modern society. For Rousseau, civil religion was intended simply as a form of social cement, helping to unify the state by providing it with sacred authority. In his book, Rousseau outlines the simple dogmas of the civil religion:\nThe Italian historian Emilio Gentile has studied the roots and development of the concept and proposed a division of two types of religions of politics: a civil religion and a political religion.\n\nIn the sociology of religion, civil religion is the folk religion of a nation or a political culture.\n\nCivil religion stands somewhat above folk religion in its social and political status, since by definition it suffuses an entire society, or at least a segment of a society; and is often practiced by leaders within that society. On the other hand, it is somewhat less than an establishment of religion, since established churches have official clergy and a relatively fixed and formal relationship with the government that establishes them. Civil religion is usually practiced by political leaders who are laypeople and whose leadership is not specifically spiritual.\n\nSuch civil religion encompasses such things as:\nand similar religious or quasi-religious practices.\n\nProfessional commentators on political and social matters writing in newspapers and magazines sometimes use the term civil religion or civic religion to refer to ritual expressions of patriotism of a sort practiced in all countries, not always including religion in the conventional sense of the word.\n\nAmong such practices are the following:\n\nThese two conceptions (sociological and political) of civil religion substantially overlap. In Britain, where church and state are constitutionally joined, the monarch's coronation is an elaborate religious rite celebrated by the Archbishop of Canterbury. In France, secular ceremonies are separated from religious observances to a greater degree than in most countries. In the United States, a president being inaugurated is told by the Constitution to choose between saying \"I do solemnly swear...\" (customarily followed by \"so help me God\", although those words are not Constitutionally required) and saying \"I do solemnly affirm...\" (in which latter case no mention of God would be expected).\n\nPractically all the ancient and prehistoric reigns suffused politics with religion. Often the leaders, such as the Pharaoh or the Chinese Emperor were considered manifestations of a Divinity. Tribal world-view was often Pantheistic, the tribe being an extension of its surrounding nature and the leaders having roles and symbols derived from the animal hierarchy and significant natural phenomena (such as storm).\n\nThe religion of the Athenian polis was a secular polytheism focused on the Olympian Gods and was celebrated in the civic festivals. Religion was a matter of state and the Athenian Ecclesia deliberated on matters of religion. Atheism and the introduction of foreign gods were forbidden in Athens and punishable by death. For example, the Athenian ecclesia charged that Socrates worshiped gods other than those sanctioned by the polis and condemned him to death.\n\nRome also had a civil religion, whose first Emperor Augustus officially attempted to revive the dutiful practice of classical paganism. Greek and Roman religion were essentially local in character; the Roman Empire attempted to unite its disparate territories by inculcating an ideal of Roman piety, and by a syncretistic identifying of the gods of conquered territories with the Greek and Roman pantheon. In this campaign, Augustus erected monuments such as the \"Ara Pacis\", the Altar of Peace, showing the Emperor and his family worshiping the gods. He also encouraged the publication of works such as Virgil's \"Æneid\", which depicted \"pious Æneas\", the legendary ancestor of Rome, as a role model for Roman religiosity. Roman historians such as Livy told tales of early Romans as morally improving stories of military prowess and civic virtue. The Roman civil religion later became centered on the person of the Emperor through the Imperial cult, the worship of the \"genius\" of the Emperor.\n\nThe phrase \"civil religion\" was first discussed extensively by Jean-Jacques Rousseau in his 1762 treatise \"The Social Contract\". Rousseau defined \"civil religion\" as a group of religious beliefs he believed to be universal, and which he believed governments had a right to uphold and maintain: belief in a deity; belief in an afterlife in which virtue is rewarded and vice punished; and belief in religious tolerance. He said the dogmas of civil religion should be simple, few in number, and stated in precise words without interpretations or commentaries. Beyond that, Rousseau affirmed that individuals' religious opinions should be beyond the reach of governments. For Rousseau civil religion was to be constructed and imposed from the top down as an artificial source of civic virtue.\n\nWallace studies Émile Durkheim (1858–1917), the French sociologist who analysed civil religion, especially in comparative terms, and stressed that the public schools are critical in implementing civil religion. Although he never used the term he laid great stress on the concept.\n\nSecular states in Europe by the late 19th century were building civil religion based on their recent histories. In France's case, Baylac argues, the French government:\nIn contemporary South Korea, the predominating civil religion has been described as consisting of anti-Japanese sentiment coupled with a pan-Korean racial nationalism. This has been criticized by some scholars as being detrimental to South Korean national security as it encourages North Korean provocations against the country in the guise that South Koreans will not adequately defend their country's security as they feel a certain racial and ethnic solidarity with North Korea. One scholar argued that South Korea should retire this sort of racialized civil religion for one more rooted in civic principles, like was found in West Germany during the 20th century.\n\nThe Soviet Union made Marxism–Leninism into a civil religion, with sacred texts and many statues of Marx, Lenin, and Stalin. Stalin personally supervised the cult of Lenin and his own cult, which took advantage of the historic semi-religious adulation Russian peasants had shown toward the tsars. The Lenin icons were put into storage when communism fell in 1991. The Stalin statues had been removed in the 1950s and mention of him was erased from encyclopedias and history books. However under Vladimir Putin in the 21st century the memory of Stalin has been partly rehabilitated in search of a strong leader who made the nation powerful. For example, school textbooks were rewritten to portray \"the mass terror of the Stalin years as essential to the country's rapid modernization in the face of growing German and Japanese military threats, and amid the inaction or duplicity of the Western democracies.\"\n\nCivil religion is an important component of public life in America, especially at the national level for its celebration of nationalism. Sociologists report that its \"feast days\" are Thanksgiving, Veterans Day, and Memorial Day. Its rituals include salutes to the flag and singing \"God Bless America\". Soldiers and veterans play a central role of standing ready to sacrifice their lives to preserve the nation. Bellah noted the veneration of veterans. The historian Conrad Cherry called the Memorial Day ceremonies \"a modern cult of the dead\" and says that it \"affirms the civil religious tenets.\"\n\nThe American Revolution was the main source of the civil religion that has shaped patriotism ever since. According to the sociologist Robert Bellah:\nAlbanese argues that the American Revolution was the main source of the non-denominational American civil religion that has shaped patriotism and the memory and meaning of the nation's birth ever since. Battles are not central (as they are for the Civil War) but rather certain events and people have been celebrated as icons of certain virtues (or vices). As historians have noted, the Revolution produced a Moses-like leader (George Washington), prophets (Thomas Jefferson, Tom Paine) and martyrs (Boston Massacre, Nathan Hale), as well as devils (Benedict Arnold), sacred places (Valley Forge, Bunker Hill), rituals (Boston Tea Party), emblems (the new flag), sacred holidays (July 4) and a holy scripture whose every sentence is carefully studied and applied in current law cases (the Declaration of Independence, the Constitution, and the Bill of Rights).\n\nAlthough \"God\" is not mentioned in the Constitution of the United States of America, mention is specifically made of \"Nature's God\" in the opening sentence of the Declaration of Independence.\n\nIn the 1960s and 1970s, scholars such as Robert N. Bellah and Martin E. Marty studied civil religion as a cultural phenomenon, attempting to identify the actual tenets of civil religion in the United States, or to study civil religion as a phenomenon of cultural anthropology. Within this American context, Marty wrote that Americans approved of \"religion in general\" without being particularly concerned about the content of that faith, and attempted to distinguish \"priestly\" and \"prophetic\" roles within the practice of American civil religion, which he preferred to call the \"public theology\". In the 1967 essay \"Civil Religion in America\", Bellah wrote that civil religion in its priestly sense is \"an institutionalized collection of sacred beliefs about the American nation.\" Bellah describes the prophetic role of civil religion as challenging \"national self-worship\" and calling for \"the subordination of the nation to ethical principles that transcend it in terms of which it should be judged.\" Bellah identified the American Revolution, the Civil War, and the Civil Rights Movement as three decisive historical events that impacted the content and imagery of civil religion in the United States.\n\nThe application of the concept of civil religion to the United States was in large part the work of sociologist Robert Bellah. He identified an elaborate system of practices and beliefs arising from America's unique historic experience and religiosity. Civil religion in the US was originally Protestant but brought in Catholics and Jews after World War II. Having no association with any religious sect, Civil religion was used in the 1960s to justify civil rights legislation. Americans ever since the colonial era talk of their obligation both collective and individual to carry out God's will on earth. George Washington was a sort of high priest, and the documents of the Founding Fathers have been treated as almost sacred texts. With the Civil War, says Bellah, came a new theme of death, sacrifice and rebirth, as expressed through Memorial Day rituals. Unlike France, the American civil religion was never anticlerical or militantly secular.\n\nThis assertive civil religion of the United States is an occasional cause of political friction between the US and Europe, where the literally religious form of civil religion has largely faded away in recent decades. In the United States, civil religion is often invoked under the name of \"Judeo-Christian ethics\", a phrase originally intended to be maximally inclusive of the several religions practiced in the United States, assuming that these faiths all share the same values. Alvin J. Schmidt argues that since the 1700s, expressions of civil religion in the United States have shifted from a deistic to a polytheistic stance.\n\nSome scholars have argued that the American flag can be seen as a main totem of a national cult, while others have argued that modern punishment is a form of civil religion. Arguing against mob violence and lynching, Abraham Lincoln declared in his 1838 Lyceum speech that the Constitution and the laws of the United States ought to become the \"political religion\" of each American.\n"}
{"id": "102512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102512", "title": "Coalition", "text": "Coalition\n\nThe term \"coalition\" is the denotation for a group formed when two or more persons, faction, states, political parties, militaries etc. agree to work together temporarily in a partnership to achieve a common goal. The word coalition connotes a coming together to achieve a goal.\n\nAccording to \"A Guide for Political Parties\" published by National Democratic Institute and The Oslo Center for Peace and Human Rights, there are five steps of coalition-building:\n\nCoalitions manifest in a variety of forms, types, and terms of duration: \n\nBy contrast to alliances, coalitions are what might be termed ‘partnerships of unequals’ since comparative political, economic, and military might, or more particularly the extent to which a nation is prepared to commit, dictates who will lead, who is in the inner circle, and who will have influence. Coalitions generally occur as an unplanned reply to situations of danger, uncertainty, or supernatural events they are also nonpermanent integrations directed at interim objectives. In terms of participation coalitions are, by their nature, more of a \"come as you are, wear what you want, leave when you want party\".\n\nCoalitions branch into two expanding categories: internal coalitions and external coalitions.\n\nInternal coalitions consist of people who are already in an organization, such as a workplace. For example, the trade union is a type of coalition which was formed in order to represent employees' wages, benefits, and working conditions. Without this unity between employees, workers were subjugated to harsh working environments and low pay due to no practical regulations. Often, organizations prefer to council with members of their respective internal coalitions before implementing changes at the workplace to ensure support.\n\nIn contrast, external coalitions consist of people that are members of different organizations who collaborate their efforts to achieve an overall objective. For example, in order to prevent gun violence and advocate gun control, several groups, unions, and nonprofit organizations banded to form the Coalition to Stop Gun Violence. External coalitions base their confidence in gaining credibility on inviting unlikely partners who wish to attain the same end goal, but the reasons to achieve these goals differ.\n\nCoalition government stands as an alternative model to majoritarian governance, the latter being characterized by winner-take-all \"first-past-the-post\" electoral systems that favor clear distinctions between winners and losers. Not only can coalitions of legislative groups form governments in parliamentary systems but they can form in divisions of power as well. The most usual analyses of coalitions in politics deal with the formation of multiparty cabinets in parliamentary regimes. In Germany, every administration has been a multiparty coalition since the conclusion of the Second World War, an example of a coalition government creation in a parliamentary government. When different winning coalitions can be formed in a parliament, the party composition of the government may depend on the bargaining power of each party and the presence, or not, of a dominant party.\n\nThe Cambridge Dictionary defines coalition as \"the joining together of different political parties or groups for a particular purpose, usually for a limited time, or a government that is formed in this way\".\n\nThe temporary collaboration of two or more separate parties with a set goal and common purpose can be viewed as a coalition in international relations. Coalition competitions are represented in international political dynamics . In international relations, a coalition can be an \"ad hoc\" grouping of nations united for specific purposes. Although persons and groups form coalitions for many and varied reasons, the most common purpose is to combat a common threat or to take advantage of a certain opportunity, resulting in the often temporary nature of coalitions. The common threat or existence of opportunity is what gives rise to the coalition and allows it to exist as all parties involved see the benefit in working together. Such collaborative processes allow the actors of the coalition to advance forward towards their overall goal or accomplish the task that the coalition was formed around. The behavior and dynamics of a coalitions in international relations are created by commonalties and differences within the groups joining together. Rationality, group dynamics, and gender are all contributing factors of coalitional behaviors in an international security framework.\n\nEconomic agents can form coalitions. When a coalition is formed around economic goals, the reasoning is financial. In economics, when two opposing sectors such as a buyer and seller, or two sellers, come together it can be thought of as a coalition, in the denotative sense, as the two groups come together temporarily to achieve a goal. One example would be the 1997 deal between Microsoft and Apple. The deal consisted of Microsoft rescuing the then struggling Apple with an infusion of $150 million. Unions can be viewed as a coalitions of workers (usually of the same industrial sector). When the agents considered are countries, the formation of an international treaty (e.g. trade agreements or international environmental agreements) can also be seen as a coalition. In economics a coalition's formation and its stability is mostly studied with tools from game theory.\n\nIn civil society, \"coalition\" connotes a group effort or a population of people coming together who believe strongly in their cause. The term also describes alliances between civil society organizations, such as labor unions, community organizations, and religious institutions. In France, for example, workers from different sectors and unions band together to aid each other in communicating a point. This coalition of unions is often very effective as it causes massive inconvenience to the country. The formation of coalitions such as the Community-Labor Coalition have proven to be an important strategy for social change in many contexts. In social groups, a coalition often forms from private citizens uniting behind a common goal or purpose. Many of these private citizen groups form grassroots organizations, such as the Christian Coalition, which is the largest grassroots political group in America. Activist groups in civil society are also viewed as coalitions for their respective cause. These activists are joined together by their belief in what they hope to achieve or accomplish.\n\nMilitary coalitions can be built and united under a singular power by multiple states and governments. They are fluid in terms of membership—not only does a country not have to have been a traditional ally to join a coalition, but nations can join, vary their contributions and caveats, withdraw, and be replaced by new members as the situation changes or national agendas change. The expansion of assets accessible to member nations to perform military operations is a crucial attribute of coalitions. In many ways, coalition warfare serves to make the crafting of a peace more difficult than the winning of the war itself. An example of such coalition happened during the Versailles Peace Conference in 1919 when the Allied powers attempted to reach a peace agreement.\n\nExamples of military coalitions include the Coalition of the Gulf War, when George H. W. Bush ended Saddam Hussein's aggression in the Middle East by enlisting and leading a military coalition in the 1991 Gulf War's Operation Desert Storm as well as his son George W. Bush's efforts in the \"Coalition of the Willing\", a phrase employed during the 2003 campaign for the war in Iraq led by the United States and its allies. A contemporary example is the United Nations coalition that intervened in the 2011 Libyan Civil War against Muammar Gaddafi. For coalitions to be effective in principle, let alone in action, participating nations have tended to require a single overpowering threat—perhaps to freedom or a way of life or a crucial national interest—or the presence of a single despotic figure or regime whose continued existence is considered not only abhorrent to the generality of nations but also destabilizing to the region or world order.\n\nIn mathematics the term coalition is linked to an equation which uses the coalition model for exponential population growth. This analytical equation was first published by mathematician Pierre François Verhulst in 1838 to allow for the approximation of the world's population at a given time by applying differential and integral techniques.\n\n"}
{"id": "27437438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27437438", "title": "Consumer socialization", "text": "Consumer socialization\n\nConsumer socialization is the process by which young people acquire skills, knowledge and attitudes relevant to their functioning as consumers in the marketplace. It has been argued, however, that consumer socialization occurs in the adult years as well. This field of study is a subdivision of consumer behaviour as its main focus is on how childhood and adolescent experiences affect future consumer behavior. It attempts to understand how factors such as peers, mass media, family, gender, race, and culture plays an influence in developing customer behavior.\n\nThis field of study has increasingly interested policy makers, marketers, consumer educator and students of socialization.\n\nGeorge Moschis and Gilbert A. Churchill Jr posit that mass media, parents, school and peers are all agents of consumer socialization. According to this theory children and young adults learn the rational aspects of consumption from their parents while the mass media teaches them to give social meaning to products; schools teach the importance of economic wisdom and finally peers exercise varying social pressures.\n\nResearch in this field is primarily based on two models of human learning: the cognitive development model, which stem primarily from the works of Jean Piaget, and the social learning model, which is based primarily on neo-Hullian, neo-Skinnerian and social learning theory.\n\nThis aspect of child socialization started receiving academic attention in early 1970s. Systematic academic research in this area was triggered by charges of various consumer advocacy groups which were concerned with the effects of marketing, especially TV advertising on children.\n\nAdolescents tend to rely more on peers, such as friends and classmates, to develop their consumer behavior compared to television and family.\n\nMass media has been shown to be as important of a socialization agent as family and peers. Children learn from observation so by viewing advertisements and lifestyles from a television show they will develop their consumer behavior as well as leaning consumer role perceptions.\n\nFamily is a major influence in consumer socialization. Parent-child socialization is an adult initiated process by which developing children, through insight, training, and imitation acquire the habits and values congruent with adaptation to their culture.\nMothers tend to have the most influence in consumer development and can teach consumer behavior through observation, direct discussions, and parent supervision.\n\nParenting style plays an important role in consumer socialization because parent-child interactions determine how parents teach their child consumer behavior. Parents who have negative attitudes toward television advertising tend to have children who request fewer purchases and are more consumer educated. Children who spend less time with parents and other familial ties are more likely to be affected by peers and media than children who spend time with their family.\n\nThe influence that other familial connections, such as siblings and grandparents, may have on consumer socialization has not been studied as extensively as parents. Siblings has been found to rely on each other to gain information on the marketplace.\n\nGender has been identified as a critical social structure variable in consumer socialization. Women tend to have a more positive attitude toward advertisements than males. Young girls and teenagers are more affected by peer and family influence than boys. Young girls are also more likely to deem a brand their favorite based on whether their friends have them.\n\nBoys tend to be more influenced by non-personal communication than interpersonal interactions.\n\nAfrican Americans tend to watch more hours of television a week and watch different types of television programs compared to their Caucasian counterparts. African Americans rely more on television as a form of consumer socialization than family. African Americans also have a more positive attitude toward advertisements than their Caucasian counterparts. African Americans tend to buy the same brand rather than competing brands.\n\nIn Asian cultures, parents and peers tend to have a greater influence on consumer socialization than television. This may be due to Asian cultures' tendency to behave in ways that are best for the community rather than for the individual. This close-knit community leads to a reliance on referrals and word-of-mouth.\n\nHispanic cultures, like Asian cultures, are family-oriented and can be considered to be collectivist. Hispanic children tend to depend on parents and peers to learn more about consumer behavior.\n\n"}
{"id": "2836705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2836705", "title": "Counter-recruitment", "text": "Counter-recruitment\n\nCounter-recruitment refers to activity opposing military recruitment, in some or all of its forms. Among the methods used are research, consciousness-raising, political advocacy and direct action. Most such activity is a response to recruitment by state armed forces, but may also target intelligence agencies, private military companies, and non-state armed groups.\n\nThe rationale for counter-recruitment activity may be based on any of the following reasons:\nArmed forces spokespeople have defended the \"status quo\" by recourse to the following:\n\nExamples of counter-recruitment activity are:\n\nCounter-recruitment (which has long been a strategy of pacifist and other anti-war groups) received a boost in the United States with the unpopularity of the war in Iraq and brief recruitment difficulties of branches of the U.S. military, particularly the Army; although the Army has met, or exceeded, its recruitment goals year after year during that period. Beginning in early 2005, the U.S. counter-recruitment movement grew, particularly on high school and college campuses, where it is often led by students who see themselves as targeted for military service in a war they do not support.\n\nThe counter-recruitment movement was the successor to the anti-draft movement with the end of conscription in the United States in 1973, just after the end of the Vietnam War. The military increased its recruiting efforts, with the total number of recruiters, recruiting stations, and dollars spent on recruiting each more than doubling between 1971 and 1974. Anti-war and anti-draft activists responded with a number of initiatives, using tactics similar to those used by counter-recruiters today. Activists distributed leaflets to students, publicly debated recruiters, and used equal-access provisions to obtain space next to recruiters to dispute their claims. The American Friends Service Committee (A.F.S.C.) and the Central Committee for Conscientious Objectors (C.C.C.O.) began publishing counter-recruitment literature and attempting to coordinate the movement nationally. These organizations have been continuously involved in counter-recruitment to the present day.\n\nMost counter-recruitment work in the U.S. is focused at the policy level of public school systems. This work is generally done by parents and grandparents of school-aged children, and the most common activity is information and advocacy with school officials (principals, school boards, etc.) and with the general population in their local school area. CR at the K12 level is categorically different from other movements, since most of the students are underaged minors and parents are their legal custodians and guardians, not the schools.\n\nThe most common policy goal is that the frequency of military recruiters' visits to public schools, their locations in schools, and their types of activities be controlled rather than unlimited. Many of the larger urban school districts have implemented such guidelines since 2001.\n\nOther goals have included \"truth in recruiting\", that counselors or curriculum elements be implemented to address the deficiency in high school students' understanding of war and the military life, rather than allowing military recruiters to perform that role.\n\nOn high school campuses, counter-recruitment activists since 2001 have also focused around a provision of the No Child Left Behind Act, which requires that high schools provide contact and other information to the military for all of their students who do not opt out.\n\nCounter-recruitment campaigns have attempted to change school policy to ban recruiters regardless of the loss of federal funds, to be active about informing students of their ability to opt out, and/or to allow counter-recruiters access to students equal to the access given to military recruiters. These political campaigns have had some success, particularly in the Los Angeles area, where one has been led by the Coalition Against Militarism in Our Schools, and the San Francisco Bay Area. A simpler and easier, though perhaps less effective, strategy by counter-recruiters has been to show up before or after the school day and provide students entering or exiting their school with opt-out forms, produced by the local school district or by a sympathetic national legal organization such as the American Civil Liberties Union or the National Lawyers Guild.\n\nOrganizations which have attempted to organize such campaigns on a national scale include A.F.S.C. and C.C.C.O., the Campus Antiwar Network (C.A.N.), and the War Resisters League. Code Pink, with the Ruckus Society, has sponsored training camps on counter-recruitment as well as producing informational literature for use by counter-recruiters. United for Peace and Justice has counter-recruitment as one of its seven issue-specific campaigns. Mennonite Central Committee is another resource on the subject. Some of these organizations focus on counter-recruitment in a specific sector, such as high schools or colleges, while the National network Opposing the Militarization of Youth, founded in 2004, deals with the larger issue of militarism as it affects young people and society.\n\nIn response to the Canadian Forces' role as a member of the International Security Assistance Force in Afghanistan, an anti-war movement developed in Canada which has tried to utilize counter-recruitment as a part of its efforts. In particular, Operation Objection emerged as the umbrella counter-recruitment campaign in Canada. Operation Objection claimed to have active counter-recruitment operations in 8 to 10 Canadian cities. However, coordinated attempts at counter-recruitment activism in Canada have been fairly limited as of late, and for the most part, unsuccessful.\n\nIn the 2005-06 academic year at York University, the York Federation of Students, a federation representing ten of the university's student unions, clashed with a Canadian Forces recruiter forcibly removing the recruiter and the kiosk from the Student Center. York University maintains that the Canadian Forces have the same right to recruit as any other employer participating in career fairs on campus.\n\nOn October 25, 2007, an attempt by the student union at the University of Victoria to ban Canadian Forces from participating in career fairs on campus failed when the student body voted overwhelmingly in favour of allowing the Canadian military to participate in recruitment and career development activities available to students. Approximately 500 students, five times the usual attendance, appeared at the Annual General Meeting of the University of Victoria Students' Society (UVSS), and voted to defeat the motion proposed to stop the Canadian Forces from appearing on campus at career development events, with an estimated 25 votes in favour of the ban. Those voting against the ban argued that the ban was a restriction on freedom of choice and an infringement of students' free speech, that it went beyond the mandate of student government, and that student union executives should not be advocating policy that does not reflect the views of the fee-paying student body.\n\nIn November 2007, the Minister of Education for Prince Edward Island, Gerard Greenan, was requested by the Council of Canadians to ban military recruitment on PEI campuses. The Minister responded that military service \"is a career and... we think its right to let the Armed Forces have a chance to present this option to students.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "220872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=220872", "title": "Cry of Dolores", "text": "Cry of Dolores\n\nThe Cry of Dolores () is a historical event that occurred in Dolores (now Dolores Hidalgo), Mexico, in the early morning of 16 September 1810. Roman Catholic priest Miguel Hidalgo y Costilla rang the bell of his church and gave the \"pronunciamiento\" (call to arms) that triggered the Mexican War of Independence.\n\nEvery year on the of Independence Day, the President of Mexico re-enacts the Grito from the balcony of the National Palace in Mexico City, while ringing the same bell Hidalgo used in 1810.\n\nIn the 1810s, Mexico was under Spanish control and known as New Spain. The independence movement began to take shape when José Bernardo Gutiérrez de Lara went to the small town of Dolores (now known as Dolores Hidalgo) and asked the local Roman Catholic priest, Miguel Hidalgo, to help initiate an effort to free New Spain from Spanish control. \n\nGutiérrez de Lara went to Washington, D.C. for military support (being the first Mexican to do so). Hidalgo remained in Dolores, waiting for Gutiérrez de Lara to return with military support. However, fearing arrest, Hidalgo told his brother Mauricio to make the sheriff free the pro-independence inmates there. Mauricio and armed men set 80 inmates free in the early morning of 16 September 1810. Around 2:30 a.m., Hidalgo ordered the church bells to be rung and gathered his congregation. Flanked by Allende and Juan Aldama, he addressed the people in front of his church, urging them to revolt. His speech became known as the \"Cry of Dolores\".\n\nThe liberated country adopted Mexico as its official name. Mexico's independence from Spain took a decade of war. Gutiérrez de Lara commanded and led Mexico to victory. Independence was achieved by the Declaration of Independence of the Mexican Empire on 28 September 1821. However, Hidalgo is credited as being the \"father of his country.\"\n\nThere is no scholarly consensus on the exact words Miguel Hidalgo said at the time. The book \"The Course of Mexican History\" says \"the exact words of this most famous of all Mexican speeches are not known, or, rather, they are reproduced in almost as many variations as there are historians to reproduce them\". \n\nThe same book also argues that:\nIn contrast, William F. Cloud divides the sentiments above between both Hidalgo and the crowd:\nMany believe that Hidalgo's Grito condemned the notion of monarchy and criticized the current social order in detail. In fact, his opposition was targeted to Spain and its viceroy in Mexico; not against monarchy in general but against \"bad government\". The Grito also emphasized loyalty to the Catholic religion, a sentiment with which both Creoles and Peninsulares (native Spaniards) could sympathize. However, the strong anti-Spanish cry of “Death to Gachupines” (Gachupines being a slur given to Peninsulares) would have shocked Mexico’s elites.\n\nThe day of 16 September was first celebrated in 1812 in Huichapan, Hidalgo. It was given the status of a national holiday in the Constitution of Apatzingán, ratified by the conventions of 1822 and 1824, and first celebrated nationally in 1825.\n\nThe Cry of Dolores has assumed an almost mythical status. Since the late 20th century, the event has come to symbolize Mexican independence and to initiate Independence Day ceremonies the following day (16 September). Independence Day in Mexico is a patriotic holiday, marked by parades, concerts, patriotic programs, drum and bugle and marching band competitions, and special programs on the national and local media outlets.\n\nEvery 15 September at around 11 p.m., the President of Mexico stands on the balcony of the National Palace in Mexico City and rings the same bell that Hidalgo rang in 1810, which was moved to the National Palace. The President then recites a shout of patriotism (a Grito Mexicano) based upon the \"Grito de Dolores\", with the names of the important heroes of the Mexican War of Independence who were there on that historic day. The Grito ends with the threefold shout of \"¡Viva México!\"\n\nThis is the version often recited by the President of Mexico:\n\nBeneath the balcony of the National Palace, there is a large crowd in the Plaza de la Constitución (also called the Zócalo), to hear the recitation. The event draws up to half a million spectators from all over Mexico and tourists worldwide. After the President recites each line beginning with \"¡Viva(n)!\", the crowd responds by repeating, \"¡Viva(n)!\"\n\nAfter the recitation, the President rings the bell one last time, and waves the Flag of Mexico to the applause of the crowd.\n\nThis is followed by the playing of the Mexican national anthem by a military band from the Mexican Armed Forces. The crowd sings along. The ceremonies conclude with a spectacular fireworks display at the Zocalo grounds.\n\nOn the morning of 16 September, or Independence Day, the national military parade in honor of the holiday starts in the Zócalo and its outskirts, passes the Hidalgo Memorial and ends on the Paseo de la Reforma, Mexico City’s main boulevard, passing \"El Ángel de la Independencia\" memorial column and other places along the way.\n\nThe Grito is not always re-enacted at the National Palace; some years it is performed in Dolores Hidalgo, Guanajuato, where it originally happened. This is especially common in the final year of a President's term.\n\nPresident Felipe Calderón made an exception by re-enacting the Grito in Dolores Hidalgo as part of the bicentennial celebrations on 16 September 2010, even though he had already done so the night before from the National Palace balcony to launch the celebrations. As a result, in 2012, Calderón's final year as President, he did not go to Dolores Hidalgo but gave the Grito from the National Palace balcony instead. President Enrique Peña Nieto did not give the Grito in Dolores Hidalgo in any of his six years as President, becoming the fourth president to break the tradition.\n\nMany presidents add their \"personal touch\" to the Grito and this can be controversial. President Vicente Fox frequently took liberties with it, adding and removing items, addressing Mexicans in both genders, and in 2001 wishing long life to \"our agreements\". Peña Nieto gave \"vivas\" to victims of recent earthquakes in 2017.\n\nDuring Peña Nieto's presidency, the Grito became an occasion for political protest against him and his Institutional Revolutionary Party (PRI). On 15 September 2016, a month after the president appeared to be humiliated by U.S. Presidential candidate Donald Trump, thousands of citizens marched, yelled, and carried signs. They tried to enter the Zócalo during the Grito, but were blocked by a wall of soldiers. News outlets within Mexico failed to acknowledge the protest. The event was well-attended but opponents charge that the PRI brought \"acarreados\" (poor people or hand-picked party members) as a fake show of support.\n\nThe Grito was also disrupted in 2006 by a demonstration called the Plantón. Crowds loyal to losing candidate Andrés Manuel López Obrador protested alleged irregularities in the general election just concluded, and the Grito could not be delivered at the Zócalo but was spoken at the National Palace. López Obrador won the presidency in 2018.\n\nSimilar celebrations to the Presidential one occur in cities and towns throughout Mexico, and in Mexican embassies and consulates worldwide on 15 or 16 September. The chief executive, ambassador, or consul rings a bell and recites the traditional words, including the names of independence heroes and local patriots, and ending with the threefold shout of \"Viva Mexico!\" The bell rings a second time, the Mexican flag is waved, and everyone sings the National Anthem, followed by fireworks. There are also celebrations in schools throughout Mexico, and in these cases whenever the bell ringing is reenacted the school or university head utters the traditional words.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22375120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22375120", "title": "Debt clock", "text": "Debt clock\n\nA debt clock is a public counter, which displays the government debt (also known as \"public debt\" or \"national debt\") of a public corporation, usually of a state, and which visualizes the progression through an update every second. Because of the mirror-image correlation between liabilities and accounts receivable meanwhile there are assets clocks or property clocks also, which visualize the private and state assets. Clocks to display the national interest charge are called interest clocks.\n\nThe debt clock strikingly shows the dynamics of the state's debt growth. In this connection private debts and the growth of the monetary assets of the creditors are disregarded. The debt clock, besides showing the actual new indebtedness of the state through investment credits from government bonds, as well shows the effect out of interest and compound interest (\"interest on interest\") and the swelling of state indebtedness coming from the interest payable.\n\nMany countries and cities have public debt clocks installed.\n\n\nThe missing confrontation of the growing assets and the increasing debts is criticised i.a. on the part of the unions. In this context an \"assets clock\" or \"property clock\" displaying the rising assets is encouraged.\n\nSenior economist of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (UNCTAD), Heiner Flassbeck, in February 2007 criticised the bias and striking impact of the debt clock. He suggested to put a clock aside with a display of the private assets/property and its growth to enable the judgement of the debts against the background of present property values and assets. Meanwhile property- or richness clocks in several variants were published.\n\n"}
{"id": "670485", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=670485", "title": "Departments of Bolivia", "text": "Departments of Bolivia\n\nBolivia is a unitary state consisting of nine departments (). Departments are the primary subdivisions of Bolivia, and possess certain rights under the Constitution of Bolivia. Each department is represented in the federal Plurinational Legislative Assembly—a bicameral legislature consisting of the Senate and the Chamber of Deputies. Each department is represented by four Senators, while Deputies are awarded to each state in proportion to their total population.\n\nOut of the nine departments, La Paz is the most populous, with 2,706,351 inhabitants as of 2012; Pando is the least populous, with a population of 110,436. The largest department by area is Santa Cruz, encompassing , while the smallest is Tarija, encompassing .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2303067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2303067", "title": "Earl Bakken", "text": "Earl Bakken\n\nEarl Elmer Bakken (January 10, 1924 – October 21, 2018) was an American engineer, businessman and philanthropist of Dutch and Norwegian American ancestry. He founded Medtronic, where he developed the first external, battery-operated, transistorized, wearable artificial pacemaker in 1957.\n\nBorn in Columbia Heights, Minnesota, Bakken had a long-held fascination with electricity and electronics. A self-described \"nerd\", Bakken designed a rudimentary electroshock weapon in school to fend off bullies. After earning a Bachelor of Science in Electrical Engineering in 1948, he studied electrical engineering with a minor in mathematics at the University of Minnesota Graduate School. Post-World War II hospitals were just starting to employ electronic equipment, but did not have staff to maintain and repair them. \n\nSensing an opportunity, with his brother-in-law, Palmer Hermundslie, he formed Medtronic (a portmanteau of \"medical\" and \"electronic\") in a small garage, primarily working with the University of Minnesota hospital.\n\nIn the 1950s, Dr. C. Walton Lillehei was performing life-saving surgery on children with blue baby syndrome. That surgery often left the children needing to be temporarily attached to a pacemaker. The pacemakers at the time were large devices that required their own carts and relied on wall current for power. As a result of a power blackout on October 31, 1957, one of Dr. Lillehei's young patients died. Dr. Lillehei, who had worked with Bakken before, asked him the next day if he could solve the problem. Four weeks after finding a circuit diagram for a metronome in \"Popular Electronics\", Bakken delivered a battery-powered transistorized pacemaker about the size of a few decks of cards to Dr. Lillehei. After successfully testing the hand-made device in the laboratory, Bakken returned to create a refined model for patients. However, much to his astonishment, when he came in the next day, he found the pacemaker already in use on a patient. (The Food and Drug Administration did not start regulating medical devices until 1976.)\n\nOver the next several years, Bakken and Medtronic worked with other doctors to develop fully implantable pacemakers, but they also veered toward bankruptcy. He borrowed money that kept Medtronic going, but the bankruptcy near-miss drove Bakken to develop the \"Medtronic Mission\", which still guides the company. The mission helped the young company to stay focused on areas where it could truly help patients.\n\nBakken retired from Medtronic in 1989 and moved to a 9-acre estate in the Kona District of Hawaii he called \"Bakken Hale\", but still returned to the company several times a year to meet new employees and explain the \"Medtronic Mission\" to them in person.\n\nIn 1996 he helped to dedicate the North Hawaii Community Hospital and was active there for some time afterwards, working to combine Eastern and Western approaches to medicine to develop a more holistic approach to health care.\n\nIn 2001, Medtronic started the construction of its new European distribution center in Heerlen, The Netherlands. The street on which the facility was built is named after Bakken.\n\nBakken died at his Hawaii home on October 21, 2018 at the age of 94.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51217437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51217437", "title": "False reality bubble", "text": "False reality bubble\n\nA false reality bubble is an alternate social reality created for political reasons. To be a \"bubble\" the knowledge involved must have been incorporated into the world view of a substantial mass of people.\n\nAccording to David Fenton, Chairman and founder of Fenton Communications the Fox News Channel is an example of a media enterprise which has successfully created a false reality bubble.\n"}
{"id": "9976654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9976654", "title": "Federal Ministry of Education (Nigeria)", "text": "Federal Ministry of Education (Nigeria)\n\nThe Federal Ministry of Education is a part of the Federal Ministries of Nigeria that directs education in Nigeria. It is located at Block 5A (8th Floor), Federal Secretariat Complex, Shehu Shagari Way, Central Area, P.M.B. 146, Garki, Abuja.\n\nIt was established in 1988. President Muhammadu Buhari appointed Adamu Adamu, a well known journalist and loyalist to the president, as the minister for education in November 2015.\n\nIts functions include:\n\nParastatal include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46876683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46876683", "title": "Global Apollo Programme", "text": "Global Apollo Programme\n\nThe Global Apollo Programme is a call for a major global science and economics research programme to make carbon-free baseload electricity less costly than electricity from coal by the year 2025.\n\nLaunched in June 2015, the project - named for the Apollo Program, which brought together thousands of scientists and engineers to put mankind on the moon - calls for developed nations to commit to spending 0.02% of their GDP, for 10 years, to fund co-ordinated research to solve the challenge. This equates to $150 billion over a decade, roughly the same cost committed to the Apollo Program in 2015 money. Some developed nations, including the UK, already meet the GDP percentage target spend, but many do not and there is little international coordination to maximise the results.\n\nIt has been modelled on the more recent International Technology Roadmap for Semiconductors, an international research collaborative that is credited with greatly and swiftly improving the quality and economics of semiconductor manufacture.\n\n\nThe initiative is spearheaded by the chemist Professor Sir David King, former Government Chief Scientific Adviser to HM Government. Amongst the Apollo group are economists Professor Lord Stern (author of The Stern Review) and Lord O'Donnell (former Cabinet Secretary), businessmen Lord Turner and Lord Browne (former Chief Executive of BP), cosmologist and astrophysicist Professor Lord Rees (former President of the Royal Society) and labour economist Lord Layard.\n\nThe following were signatories on an open letter published to The Guardian newspaper, alongside the launch report authors, in September 2015.\n\n\nProfessor Jeffrey Sachs, Professor of Sustainable Development and Director of the Earth Institute at Columbia University has separately publicly endorsed the programme.\n\nProfessor Sir David King has publicly stated that Prime Minister of India Narendra Modi is \"keen\" on the programme.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14659693", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14659693", "title": "GovTalk", "text": "GovTalk\n\nGovTalk was a UK government initiative sponsored by the Cabinet Office, designed to encourage efficient government through the use of the internet and other modern electronic technologies. It included guidelines and advice on best practices for the use of technology, metadata standards, a repository of XML schemas, and a process for consulting on new schemas to cover specific areas of government.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31522012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31522012", "title": "Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam", "text": "Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam\n\nThe Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam (GERD or Taehige; '), formerly known as the Millennium Dam and sometimes referred to as Hidase Dam, is a gravity dam on the Blue Nile River in Ethiopia that has been under construction since 2011. It is in the Benishangul-Gumuz Region of Ethiopia, about east of the border with Sudan. At 6.45 gigawatts, the dam will be the largest hydroelectric power plant in Africa when completed, as well as the 7th largest in the world. As of August 2017, the work stood at 60% completion. Once completed, the reservoir will take from 5 to 15 years to fill with water. \nThe eventual site for the Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam was identified by the United States Bureau of Reclamation during a Blue Nile survey conducted between 1956 and 1964. The Ethiopian Government surveyed the site in October 2009 and August 2010. In November 2010, a design for the dam was submitted. On 31 March 2011, a day after the project was made public, a US$4.8 billion contract was awarded without competitive bidding to Salini Costruttori and the dam's foundation stone was laid on 2 April 2011 by then Prime Minister Meles Zenawi. A rock crushing plant has been constructed along with a small air strip for fast transportation. The first two generators are expected to become operational after 44 months of construction. Egypt, which lies downstream, opposes the dam which it believes will reduce the amount of water that it gets from the Nile. Zenawi argued, based on an unnamed study, that the dam would not reduce water availability downstream and would also regulate water for irrigation. In May 2011, it was announced that Ethiopia would share blueprints for the dam with Egypt so the downstream impact could be examined.\n\nThe dam was originally called \"Project X\", and after its contract was announced it was called the Millennium Dam. On 15 April 2011, the Council of Ministers renamed it Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam. Ethiopia has a potential for around 45 GW of hydropower. The dam is being funded by government bonds and private donations. It was slated for completion in July 2017.\n\nThe potential impacts of the dam have been the source of severe regional controversy. The Government of Egypt, a country which relies heavily on the waters of the Nile, has demanded that Ethiopia cease construction on the dam as a preconditions to negotiations, sought regional support for its position, and some political leaders have discussed methods to sabotage it. Egypt has planned a diplomatic initiative to undermine support for the dam in the region as well as in other countries supporting the project such as China and Italy. However, other nations in the Nile Basin Initiative have expressed support for the dam, including Sudan, the only other nation downstream of the Blue Nile, which has accused Egypt of inflaming the situation. Ethiopia denies that the dam will have a negative impact on downstream water flows and contends that the dam will in fact increase water flows to Egypt by reducing evaporation on Lake Nasser. It has accused Egypt of being unreasonable; Egypt is demanding to increase its share of the Nile's water flow from 66% to 90%.\n\nThe Ethiopian government has stated that it intends to fund the entire cost of the dam by itself. It has issued a bond targeted at Ethiopians in the country and abroad to that end. The turbines and associated electrical equipment of the hydropower plants costing about US$1.8 billion are reportedly financed by Chinese banks. This would leave US$3 billion to be financed by the Ethiopian government through other means. The estimated US$4.8 billion construction cost, apparently excluding the cost of power transmission lines, corresponds to about 5% of Ethiopia’s Gross Domestic Product of US$87 billion in 2017.\n\nThe design changed several times between 2011–2017. This affected both the electrical parameters and the storage parameters.\n\nOriginally, in 2011, the hydropower plant was to receive 15 generating units with 350 MW nameplate capacity each, resulting in a total installed capacity of 5,250 MW with an expected power generation of 15,128 GWh per annum. However, due to the upgrading made on the power plant, its generation capacity was uplifted to 6,000 MW from 5,250 MW, with a power generation of 15,692 GWh per annum through 16 generating units with 375 MW nameplate capacity each. In 2017, the design has again been changed to add another 450 MW, with a power generation of 16,153 GWh per annum. That was achieved by upgrading 14 of the 16 generating units from 375 MW to 400 MW without changing the nameplate capacity.\n\nNot only the electrical power parameters were to change over time, but also the storage parameters. Originally, in 2011, the dam was considered to be tall with a volume of 10.1 million m. The reservoir was considered to have a volume of and a surface area of at full supply level. The rock-filled saddle dam besides the main dam was considered to have a height of meters and a length of and a volume of 15 million m.\n\nIn 2013, an Independent Panel of Experts (IPoE) assessed the dam and its technological parameters. At that time, the reservoir sizes were changed already. The size of the reservoir at \"full supply level\" went up to (plus 194 km). The storage volume at \"full supply level\" had increased to (plus 7 km). These numbers did not change anymore after 2013.\n\nAfter the IPoE made its recommendations, in 2013, the dam parameters were changed to account for higher flow volumes in case of extreme floods: a main dam height of (plus 10 meters) with a length of (no change) and a dam volume of 10.2 million m (plus 0.1 million m). The outlet parameters did not change, only the crest of the main dam was raised. The rock saddle dam went up to a height of (plus 5 meters) with a length of (plus 400 meters). The volume of the rock saddle dam increased to 16.5 million m (plus 1.5 million m).\n\nThe \"design parameters\" as of August 2017 are as follows, given the changes as outlined above:\n\nThe zero level of the main dam, the ground level, will be at a height of almost exactly above sea level, corresponding roughly to the level of the river bed of the Blue Nile. Counting from the ground level, the main gravity dam will be tall, long and composed of roller-compacted concrete. The crest of the dam will be at a height of above sea level. The outlets of the two powerhouses are below the ground level, the total height of the dam will therefore be slightly higher than that of the given height of the dam. In some publications, the main contractor constructing the dam puts forward a number of for the dam height, which might account for the additional depth of the dam below ground level, which would mean of excavations from the basement before filling the dam. The structural volume of the dam will be . The main dam will be from the border with Sudan.\n\nSupporting the main dam and reservoir will be a curved and long and high rock-fill saddle dam. The ground level of the saddle dam is at an elevation of about above sea level. The surface of the saddle dam has a bituminous finish, to keep the interior of the dam dry. The saddle dam will be just away from the border with Sudan, it is much closer to the border than the main dam.\n\nThe reservoir behind both dams will have a storage capacity of and a surface area of when at full supply level of above sea level. The full supply level is therefore above the ground level of the main dam. Hydropower generation can happen between reservoir levels of , the so-called \"minimum operating level\", and , the \"full supply level\". The \"live storage volume\", usable for power generation between both levels is then . The first of the height of the dam will be a dead height for the reservoir, leading to a \"dead storage volume\" of the reservoir of .\n\nThe dams will have three spillways. All three spillways together are designed for a flood of up to , an event not considered to happen at all, as this discharge volume is the so-called 'Probable Maximum Flood'. All waters from the three spillways are designed to discharge into the Blue Nile before the river enters Sudanese territory.\n\nThe main and gated spillway is located to the left of the main dam and will be controlled by six floodgates and have a design discharge of in total. The spillway will be wide at the outflow gates. The base level of the spillway will be at , well below the full supply level.\n\nAn ungated spillway, the auxiliary spillway, sits at the center of the main dam with an open width of about . This spillway has a base-level at , which is exactly the full supply level of the reservoir. The dam crest is higher to the left and to the right of the spillway. This ungated spillway is only expected to be used, if the reservoir is both full and the flow exceeds , a flow value, that is expected to be exceeded once every ten years.\n\nA third spillway, an emergency spillway, is located to the right of the curved saddle dam, with a base level at . This emergency spillway has an open space of about along its rim. This third spillway will carry water only if the conditions for a flood of more than around are given, corresponding to a flood to occur only once every 10,000 years.\n\nFlanking either side of the auxiliary ungated spillway at the center of the dam will be two power houses. The right will contain 10 x 375 MW Francis turbine-generators, the left power house will house 6 x 375 MW of the same turbine-generators. 14 of the 16 turbine-generators have been upgraded to 400 MW without changing the nameplate capacity (which is still at 375 MW), while two turbine-generators remained at 375 MW. The total installed capacity with all turbine-generators will be 6,450 MW. The average annual flow of the Blue Nile being available for power generation is expected to be , which gives rise to an annual expectation for power generation of 16,153 GWh, corresponding to a plant load factor (or capacity factor) of 28.6%.\n\nThe Francis turbines inside the power houses are installed in a vertical manner, raising above the ground level. For the foreseen operation between the minimum operating level and the full supply level, the head waters for the turbines will be between high. A switching station will be located close to the main dam, where the generated power will be delivered to the national grid. Completed have been four 500 kV main power transmission lines in August 2017, all going to Holeta and then with several 400 kV lines to the metropolitan area of Addis Ababa. Two 400 kV lines are running from the dam to the Beles Hydroelectric Power Plant. Also planned are 500 kV High-voltage direct current lines.\n\nTwo non-upgraded turbine-generators with 375 MW each are considered to be the first to go into operation with 750 MW delivered to the national power grid, possibly 2018. This early power generation will start well before the completion of the dam, when the filling of the reservoir commences. The two units are sitting within the 10 unit powerhouse to the right side of the dam at the auxiliary spillway. They are fed by two special intakes within the dam structure that are located at a height of above sea level. It is foreseen, that power generation can start at a water level of , below the \"minimum operating level\" of the other 14 turbine-generators. At that level, the reservoir has been filled with roughly of water, which corresponds to roughly 11% of the annual inflow of . During the rainy season, this is expected to happen within days to weeks. The two early power generating units probably will be the only units in operation for several years as the filling of the reservoir will take from 5–15 years.\n\nTwo \"bottom\" outlets at , above ground level are available for delivering water to Sudan and Egypt under special circumstances, in particular for irrigation purposes downstream, if the level of the reservoir falls below the minimum operating level of but also during the initial filling process of the reservoir.\n\nThe space below the \"bottom\" outlets is the primary buffer space for alluvium through siltation and sedimentation. For the Roseires Reservoir just downstream from the GERD site, the average siltation / sedimentation volume (without GERD in place) amounts to around per year. Due to the large size of the GERD reservoir, the siltation / sedimentation volume is expected to be much higher in this case, expected are per annum. The GERD reservoir will foreseeable take away the siltation threat from the Roseires reservoir almost entirely.\n\nThe ground level of the GERD dam is at around above sea level. Water flowing out of the dam will be released into the Blue Nile again which will flow for only around , before joining the Roseires reservoir, which – if at full supply level – will be at above sea level. There is only a elevation difference between both projects. The two reservoirs and accompanied hydropower projects could – if coordinated properly across the border between Ethiopia and Sudan – become a cascaded system for more efficient hydropower generation and better irrigation (in Sudan in particular). Water from the column of the water storage of the GERD reservoir could be diverted through tunnels to facilitate new irrigation schemes in Sudan close to the border with South Sudan. In Ethiopia itself, no irrigation schemes are planned due to the proximity of the dam to the downstream border with Sudan.\n\nEvaporation of water from the reservoir is expected to be at 3% of the annual inflow volume of , which corresponds to an average volume lost through evaporation of around annually. This was considered neglectable by the IPoE. For comparison, Lake Nasser in Egypt loses between annually through evaporation.\n\nThe main contractor is the Italian company Salini Costruttori, which also served as primary contractor for the Gilgel Gibe II, Gilgel Gibe III, and Tana Beles dams. Simegnew Bekele was the project manager of GERD from the start of construction in 2011 up to his death on July 26, 2018. The dam is expected to consume 10 million metric tons of concrete. The government has pledged to use only domestically produced concrete. In March 2012, Salini awarded the Italian firm Tratos Cavi SPA a contract to supply low- and high-voltage cable for the dam. Alstom will provide the eight 375 MW Francis turbines for the project's first phase, at a cost of €250 million. As of April 2013, nearly 32 percent of the project was complete. Site excavation and some concrete placement was underway. One concrete batch plant has been completed with another under construction. Diversion of the Blue Nile was completed on 28 May 2013 and marked by a ceremony the same day. By January 2016 the dam had 4 million cubic meters of concrete poured, and the installation of the first two turbines was imminent. The first power production of 750 MW was slated for sometime later that year.\n\nIn 2012, an international panel, the \"International Panel of Experts\" was formed with experts from Egypt, Sudan, Ethiopia, and other independent entities to discuss mainly engineering and partially impact related questions. This panel concluded at a number of engineering modifications, that were proposed to Ethiopia and the main contractor constructing the dam. One of the two main engineering questions, dealing with the size of flood events and the constructive response against them, was later addressed by the contractor. The emergency spillway located near the rock saddle dam saw an increase of the rim length from 300 m to 1,200 m to account even for the largest possible flood of the river. The second main recommendation of the panel however found no immediate resonance. This second recommendation dealt with the structural integrity of the dam in context with the underlying rock basement as to avoid the danger of a sliding dam due to an unstable basement. It was argued by the panel, that the original structural investigations were done with considering only a \"generic\" rock mass without taking special conditions like faults and sliding planes in the rock basement (Gneiss) into account. The panel noted, that there was indeed an exposed sliding plane in the rock basement, this plane potentially allowing a sliding process downstream. The panel didn't argue that a catastrophic dam failure with a release of dozens of cubic kilometers of water would be possible, probable or even likely, but the panel argued, that the given safety factor to avoid such a catastrophic failure might be non-optimal in the case of the Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam. It was later revealed that the underlying basement of the dam was completely different from all expectations and did not fit the geological studies as the needed excavation works exposed the underlying Gneiss. The engineering works then had to be adjusted, with digging and excavating deeper than originally planned, which took extra time and capacity and also required more concrete.\n\nOriginally, in 2011, the hydropower plant was to receive 15 generating units with 350 MW nameplate capacity each, resulting in a total installed capacity of 5,250 MW with an expected power generation of 15,128 GWh per annum. The capacity factor of the planned hydropower plant – the expected electricity production divided by the potential production if the power plant was utilized permanently at full capacity – was only 32.9% compared to 45–60% for other, smaller hydropower plants in Ethiopia. Critics concluded that a smaller dam would have been more cost-effective.\n\nSoon after, in 2012, the hydropower plant was upgraded to receive 16 generating units with 375 MW nameplate capacity each, increasing the total installed capacity to 6,000 MW, with the expected power generation going up only slightly to 15,692 GWh per annum. Consequently, the capacity factor shrank to 29.9%. According to Asfaw Beyene, a Professor of Mechanical Engineering at San Diego State University (California), the dam and its hydropower plant are massively oversized: \"GERD’s available power output, based on the average of river flow throughout the year and the dam height, is about 2,000 megawatts, not 6,000. There is little doubt that the system has been designed for a peak flow rate that only happens during the 2–3 months of the rainy season. Targeting near peak or peak flow rate makes no economic sense.\"\n\nIn 2017, the total installed capacity was moved to 6,450 MW, without changing the number and nameplate capacity of the generating units (which then remained at 6,000 MW in total). This was thought to arrive from enhancements made to the generators. The expected power generation per annum went up to 16,153 GWh, the capacity factor shrank again and reached 28.6%. This time nobody publicly voiced concern. Such an optimization of the Francis turbines used at the dam site is indeed possible and is usually done by the provider of the turbines taking into account site-specific conditions.\n\nConsidering the critics voiced about the alleged over-sizing of the possible power output, now of 6,450 MW. Ethiopia is relying heavily on hydropower, but the country is often affected by droughts (see e.g. 2011 East Africa drought). The water reservoirs used for power generation in Ethiopia have a limited size. For example, the Gilgel Gibe I reservoir, that feeds both the Gilgel Gibe I powerplant and the Gilgel Gibe II Power Station, has a capacity of 0.7 km. In times of drought, there is no water left to generate electrical power. This heavily affected Ethiopia in the drought years 2015/16 and it was only the Gilgel Gibe III powerplant, that in 2016 just started to run in trial service on a 14 km well-filled reservoir, that saved the economy of Ethiopia. The GERD-reservoir, once it has filled, has a total water volume of 74 km, 3 times the volume of Ethiopia's largest lake, Lake Tana. Filling it takes 5–15 years and even by using all generating units at maximum capacity will not drain it within a few months. The installed power of 6.450 MW in combination with the size of the reservoir will help managing the side-effects of the next severe drought, when other hydropower plants have to stop their operations.\n\nThis section will only cover the benefits for Ethiopia, but there are also transboundary benefits expected.\n\nA major benefit of the dam will be hydropower production. All the energy generated by GERD will be going into the national grid of Ethiopia to fully support the development of the whole country, both in rural and urban areas. The role of GERD will be to act as a stabilizing backbone of the Ethiopian national grid. There will be exports, but only if there is a total surplus of energy generated in Ethiopia. This is mainly expected to happen during rainy seasons, when there is plenty of water for hydropower generation.\n\nThe eventual surplus electricity of GERD which does not fit the demand inside Ethiopia, is then to be sold and exported to neighboring countries including Sudan and possibly Egypt, but also Djibouti. Revenues in US$ or in € are to be expected. Exporting the electricity from the dam would require the construction of massive transmission lines to major consumption centers such as Sudan’s capital Khartoum, located more than 400 km away from the dam. These export sales would come on top of electricity that is expected to be sold from other large hydropower plants. Powerplants that have been readied or are under construction in Ethiopia, such as Gilgel Gibe III or Koysha, whose exports (if given surplus energy) will mainly be going to Kenya through a 500 kV HVDC line.\n\nThe volume of the reservoir will be between 2–3 times that of Lake Tana which allows to expect abundant fish. Expected are up to 7,000 tonnes of fish annually as well as the reservoir becoming a hotspot for tourism.\n\nIt appears that some form of environmental study has been undertaken, since the press reported that an international panel reviewed an environmental study in 2012. The NGO International Rivers has commissioned a local researcher to make a field visit because so little information is available.\n\nPublic consultation about dams in Ethiopia is affected by the political climate in the country. International Rivers reports that \"conversations with civil society groups in Ethiopia indicate that questioning the government’s energy sector plans is highly risky, and there are legitimate concerns of government persecution. Because of this political climate, no groups are actively pursuing the issues surrounding hydro-power dams, nor publicly raising concerns about the risks In this situation, extremely limited and inadequate public consultation has been organised\" during the implementation of major dams. In June 2011, Ethiopian journalist Reeyot Alemu was imprisoned after she raised questions about the proposed Grand Millennium Dam. Staff of International Rivers have received death threats. In the meantime, the former prime minister Meles Zenawi called opponents of the project \"hydropower extremists\" and \"bordering on the criminal\" at a conference of the International Hydropower Association (IHA) in Addis Abeba in April 2011. At the conference, the Ethiopian state power utility was embraced as a \"Sustainability Partner\" by the IHA.\n\nSince the Blue Nile is a highly seasonal river, the dam would reduce flooding downstream of the dam, including on the 15 km stretch within Ethiopia. On the one hand, the reduction of flooding is beneficial since it protects settlements from flood damage. On the other hand, it can be harmful, if flood recession agriculture is practiced in the river valley downstream of the dam since it deprives fields from being watered. However, the next water regulating dam in Sudan, the Roseires Dam, sits only a few dozens of kilometers downstream. The dam could also serve as a bridge across the Blue Nile, complementing a bridge that was under construction in 2009 further upstream. An independent assessment estimated that at least 5,110 people will be resettled from the reservoir and downstream area, and the dam is expected to lead to a significant change in the fishery. According to an independent researcher who conducted research in the area where the dam is being built, near to 20,000 people are being relocated. According to the same source, \"a solid plan (is) in place for the relocated people\" and those who have already been resettled \"were given more than they expected in compensation\". Locals have never seen a dam before and \"are not completely sure what a dam actually is\", despite community meetings in which affected people were informed about the impacts of the dam on their livelihoods. Except for a few older people, almost all locals interviewed \"expressed hope that the project brings something of benefit to them\" in terms of education and health services or electricity supply based on the information available to them. At least some of the new communities for those relocated will be downstream of the dam. The area around the reservoir will consist of a 5 km buffer zone for malaria control that will not be available for settlement. In at least some upstream areas erosion control measures will be undertaken in order to reduce siltation of the reservoir.\n\nThe precise impact of the dam on the downstream countries is not known. Egypt fears a temporary reduction of water availability due to the filling of the dam and a permanent reduction because of evaporation from the reservoir. Studies indicate that the primary factors which will govern the impacts during the reservoir filling phase include the initial reservoir elevation of the Aswan High Dam, the rainfall that occurs during the filling period and the negotiated arrangement between the three countries. These studies also show that only through close and continuous coordination, the risks of negative impacts can be minimized or eliminated. The reservoir volume (74 billion cubic meters) is about 1.5 times the average annual flow (49 billion cubic meters) of the Blue Nile at the Sudanese-Egyptian border. This loss to downstream countries could be spread over several years if the countries reach an agreement. Depending on the initial storage in the Aswan High Dam and this filling schedule of the GERD, flows into Egypt could be temporarily reduced, which may affect the income of two million farmers during the period of filling the reservoir. Allegedly, it would also \"affect Egypt's electricity supply by 25 to 40 percent, while the dam is being built\". However, hydropower accounts for less than 12 percent of total electricity production in Egypt in 2010 (14 out of 121 billion kWh), so that a temporary reduction of 25 percent in hydropower production translates into an overall temporary reduction in Egyptian electricity production of less than 3 percent. The Grand Ethiopian Renaissance Dam could also lead to a permanent lowering of the water level in Lake Nasser, if floods are stored instead in Ethiopia. This would reduce the current evaporation of more than 10 billion cubic meter per year, but it would also reduce the ability of the Aswan High Dam to produce hydropower to the tune of a 100 MW loss of generating capacity for a 3 m reduction of the water level. However, the increased storage in Ethiopia can provide a greater buffer to shortages in Sudan and Egypt during years of future drought, if the countries can reach a compromise.\n\nThe dam will retain silt. It will thus increase the useful lifetime of dams in Sudan – such as the Roseires Dam, the Sennar Dam and the Merowe Dam – and of the Aswan High Dam in Egypt. The beneficial and harmful effects of flood control would affect the Sudanese portion of the Blue Nile, just as it would affect the Ethiopian part of the Blue Nile valley downstream of the dam. Specifically, the GERD would reduce seasonal flooding of the plains surrounding the reservoir of the Roseires Dam located at Ad-Damazin, just as the Tekeze Dam, by retaining a reservoir in the deep gorges of the northern Ethiopian Highlands, had reduced flooding at Sudan's Khashm el-Girba Dam.\n\nThe reservoir, located in the temperate Ethiopian Highlands and up to 140 m deep, will experience considerably less evaporation than downstream reservoirs such as Lake Nasser in Egypt, which loses 12% of its water flow due to evaporation as the water sits in the lake for 10 months. Through the controlled release of water from the reservoir to downstream, this could facilitate an \"increase\" of up to 5% in Egypt's water supply, and presumably that of Sudan as well.\n\nEgypt has serious concerns about the project so that it requested to be granted inspection allowance on the design and the studies of the dam, in order to allay its fears, but Ethiopia has denied the request unless Egypt relinquishes its veto on water allocation. After a meeting between the Ministers of Water of Egypt, Sudan and Ethiopia in March 2012, Sudan's President Bashir said that he supported the building of the dam.\n\nA Nile treaty signed by the upper riparian states in 2010, the Cooperative Framework Agreement, has not been signed by either Egypt or Sudan, as they claim it violates the 1959 treaty which gives Sudan and Egypt exclusive rights to the Nile's waters. The Nile Basin Initiative provides a framework for dialogue among all Nile riparian countries.\n\nEgypt, Ethiopia and Sudan established an International Panel of Experts to review and assess the study reports of the dam. The panel consists of 10 members; 6 from the three countries and 4 international in the fields of water resources and hydrologic modelling, dam engineering, socioeconomic, and environmental. The panel held its fourth meeting in Addis Ababa in November 2012. It reviewed documents about the environmental impact of the dam and visited the dam site. The panel submitted its preliminary report to the respective governments at the end of May 2013. Although the full report has not been made public, and will not be until it is reviewed by the governments, Egypt and Ethiopia both released details. The Ethiopian government stated that, according to the report, \"the design of the dam is based on international standards and principles\" without naming those standards and principles. It also said that the dam \"offers high benefit for all the three countries and would not cause significant harm on both the lower riparian countries\". According to Egyptian government, however, the report \"recommended changing and amending the dimensions and the size of the dam\".\n\nOn 3 June 2013 while discussing the International Panel of Experts report with President Mohammad Morsi, Egyptian political leaders suggested methods to destroy the dam, including support for anti-government rebels. Unbeknownst to those at the meeting, the discussion was televised live. Ethiopia requested that the Egyptian Ambassador explain the meeting. Morsi's top aide apologized for the \"unintended embarrassment\" and his cabinet released a statement promoting \"\"good neighborliness, mutual respect and the pursuit of joint interests without either party harming the other.\" An aide to the Ethiopian Prime Minister stated that Egypt is \"...entitled to day dreaming\" and cited Egypt's past of trying to destabilize Ethiopia. Morsi reportedly believes that it is better to engage Ethiopia rather than attempt to force them. However, on 10 June 2013, he said that \"all options are open\" because \"Egypt's water security cannot be violated at all,\" clarifying that he was \"not calling for war,\" but that he would not allow Egypt's water supply to be endangered.\n\nIn January 2014, Egypt left negotiations over the dam, citing Ethiopian intransigence. Ethiopia countered that Egypt had set an immediate halt on construction and an increase of its share to 90% as the preconditions, which were deemed wholly unreasonable. Egypt has since launched a diplomatic offensive to undermine support for the dam, sending its Foreign Minister, Nabil Fahmi to Tanzania and the Democratic Republic of the Congo to garner support. Egyptian media outlets declared the visits productive and that the leaders of those nations had expressed \"understanding\" and \"support\" of Egypt's position. However, the accuracy of such statements are questionable; when Sudanese Foreign Minister Ali Karti criticised Egypt for \"inflaming the situation\" through its statements on the dam, and that it was considering the interests of both sides \"Al-Masry Al-Youm\" declared that Sudan had \"proclaimed its neutrality\". The campaign is intensive and wide-reaching; in March 2014, for the first time, just Uganda, Kenya, Sudan, and Tanzania were invited by Egypt to participate in the Nile Hockey Tournament. Foreign Minister Fahmi and Water Resources Minister Muhammad Abdul Muttalib planned visits to Italy and Norway to express their concerns and try to compel them to pull their support for the GERD.\n\nIn April 2014 Ethiopia's Prime Minister invited Egypt and Sudan to another round of talks over the dam and Nabil Fahmi stated in May 2014 that Egypt was still open to negotiations. Following an August 2014 Tripartite Ministerial-level meeting, the three nations agreed to set up a Tripartite National Committee (TNC) meeting over the dam. The first TNC meeting occurred from 20 to 22 September 2014 in Ethiopia.\n\n"}
{"id": "34906008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34906008", "title": "International Defence and Aid Fund", "text": "International Defence and Aid Fund\n\nThe International Defence and Aid Fund or IDAF (also the Defence Aid Fund for Southern Africa) was a fund created by John Collins during the 1956 Treason Trial in South Africa. After learning of those accused of treason for protesting against apartheid, including Nelson Mandela, Collins created the fund in order to pay all legal expenses and look after the families of those on trial. The group was non-partisan.\n\nThis was one of the first examples of foreign intervention against apartheid in South Africa and proved very successful with over £75,000 being raised towards defending those accused. Ultimately all were acquitted \n\nIn 1981, the Defence Aid Fund for Southern Africa founded Canon Collins Trust, now known as Canon Collins Educational & Legal Assistance Trust.\n\nThe IDAF had its start with Collins, who first wired funds to help the 156 South Africans facing charges of High Treason. Collins wired \"all available Christian Action funds\" in order to create a defence fund for the defendants. Collins ensured that the defendants had the \"best and most progressive lawyers.\" In 1957, the campaigner Mary Benson joined the Defence Fund as its secretary.\n\nAmbrose Reeves, the Bishop of Johannesburg, felt that there would be other treason trials in the future and so he asked Collins to set a \"more permanent structure to defend political prisoners.\" Collins set up the British Defence and Aid Fund (BDAF) in response. At first BDAF was part of Christian Action, but it eventually separated from Christian Action in order to work more independently.\n\nIn addition to having independent action the fund needed to become international. In 1964, the organization opened branches in Sweden, Norway, Australia and Switzerland. Collins invited delegates from the countries that had branches to come to the Russell Hotel in Bloomsbury and together they officially founded the newly named International Defence and Aid Fund (IDAF) on June 20, 1964. In November of that year, the United Nations gave the group a \"stamp of approval.\" In addition, Amnesty International and the Joint Committee for High Commission Territories became involved.\n\nThe South African branch of IDAF was banned in South Africa on March 18, 1966 under the Suppression of Communism Act and the government made it illegal for anyone to receive funds from IDAF. Because of this the organization in London created three different programs which had different names in order to send money to South Africa. Under Programme 1 which focused on political trials and defence was the Freedom From Fear International Charitable Foundation, under Programme 2 which focused on the families of political prisoners was the Freedom From Hunger International Charitable Foundation and Programme 3 focused on research and publications and used the Freedom From Hardship International Trust. Activist, Phyllis Altman, who worked with the South African Congress of Trade Unions (SACTU), became the general secretary of projects under Programme 1. Altman helped set up a \"scam\" which masked any connection between IDAF and the lawyers they paid. Altman and Collins were the only two who knew how the money was being transferred. During this time, Collins' house became a \"safe venue\" for IDAF. Lawyers in South Africa who were funded by the IDAF, such as Griffiths Mxenge and Victoria Mxenge were assassinated.\n\nIn the 1970s, a spy, named Craig Williamson, infiltrated an organization called the International University Exchange Fund (IUEF), which gave money to students leaving repressive regimes. Altman did not trust him and would not discuss IDAF's \"inner mechanisms\" with Williamson. Williamson was able to cause enough trouble so that the Danish Government became suspicious of IDAF and the Labour government minister Judith Hart turned down a request for funds from IDAF. Williamson and IUEF were exposed by Arthur McGiven in a story published in the \"Observer\".\n\nCollins died in 1982 and Trevor Huddleston became the new director. Altman stayed on long enough to help the transition, but retired once she felt the new people in the organization were settled. Horst Kleinschmidt took over from Altman. During the 1980s, IDAF received more and more requests for defence and for the families of the imprisoned. When apartheid was ended in 1989, IDAF \"found itself having to undergo a fundamental review of its reason for existing. Eventually each programme of IDAF was taken over by other agencies.\n"}
{"id": "10981206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10981206", "title": "Kainun institutti", "text": "Kainun institutti\n\nKainun institutti – kvensk institutt (before 2005 known as \"Norsk senter for kvensk språk og kultur\") is a center for Kven culture and language. It is located in Børselv in Porsangi (Porsanger) municipality in Norway. It was opened in January 2007. The chair at the institute is \"Hilde Skanke\". In total six people are employed at the institute. Funding is provided by the Norwegian government.\n\nThe board of the institute consists of one member from: Norske Kveners Forbund/Ruijan kveeniliitto, (Porsanger) municipality, Pyssyjokilaiset and Ruijan Kväänit, University of Tromsø, and Finnmark University College.\n\nThe institute main tasks of the institute are:\n\nAlso located at the center is the Kven language board that was established on 13 April 2007.\n"}
{"id": "1104597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1104597", "title": "Kropyvnytskyi", "text": "Kropyvnytskyi\n\nKropyvnytskyi ( ) is a city in central Ukraine on the Inhul river, and is the administrative center of the Kirovohrad Oblast. Population: .\n\nBetween 1939 and 2016 it was called Kirovohrad ( ; ) after the First Secretary of the Leningrad City Committee of the All-Union Communist Party (Bolsheviks) Sergei Kirov. Earlier names included Yelisavetgrad () and Zinovyevsk ().\n\nThe city is the birthplace of noted figures such as Grigory Zinoviev, Volodymyr Vynnychenko, Arseny Tarkovsky, African Spir and others.\n\nOver its history, Kropyvnytskyi has changed its name several times. Presenting a letter of grant on January 11, 1752 to Major-General Jovan Horvat, the organizer of Nova Serbia settlements, the Empress Elizabeth of Russia ordered \"to found an earthen fortress and name it Fort St. Elizabeth\" (see On the Historical Meaning of the Name Elizabeth for Our City) (in Ukrainian). Thus simultaneously the future city was named in honour of its formal founder, the Russian empress, and also in honor of her heavenly patroness, St. Elizabeth.\n\nThe name Yelisavetgrad (usually spelled Elisavetgrad or Elizabethgrad in English language publications) is believed to have evolved as the amalgamation of the fortress name and the common Eastern Slavonic element \"-grad\" (Old/Church Slavonic \"градъ\", \"a settlement encompassed by a wall\"). Its first documented usage dates back to 1764, when Yelisavetgrad Province was organized together with the Yelisavetgrad Lancer Regiment.\n\nFollowing the Russian Revolution and founding of the Soviet Union, in 1924 the city was renamed Zinovievsk, (also spelled Zinovyevsk), after Grigory Zinoviev, a Soviet statesman and one of the leaders of the Russian Communist Party (Bolsheviks). He was born in Yelisavetgrad on September 20 (September 8 O.S.), 1883. At the time he was honored by the name, he was a member of the Politburo and the Chairman of the Comintern's Executive Committee.\n\nOn December 27, 1934, after the assassination of Sergei Kirov, Zinovievsk and other Soviet cities was renamed again - this time as Kirovo, and then as Kirovograd. The latter name appeared simultaneously with the creation of Kirovograd Oblast, on January 10, 1939 and was aimed at differentiating the region from Kirov Oblast in present-day Russia.\n\nAfter Ukraine regained independence, the name of the city started to be spelled according to Ukrainian pronunciation as Kirovohrad. The previous Russified orthography remains widely used on account of the widespread use of the Russian language in the region.\n\nSince 1991 numerous discussions had been held on the city's name. A number of activists supported returning the city to its original name, Yelisavetgrad (or now Yelysavethrad in Ukrainian transcription). Other suggestions for contemporary Ukraine included \"Tobilevychi\" (in honour of the Tobilevych family, the Coryphaei of the classic Ukrainian drama established in Yelisavetgrad in 1882); \"Zlatopil\", from Ukrainian \"золоте поле\", literally \"golden field\"; and \"Stepohrad\", Ukrainian for \"city of steppes\" (in recognition of the agricultural status of the city); \"Ukrayinsk\" or \"Ukrayinoslav\", i.e. \"the glorifying Ukraine one;\" and \"Novokozachyn\" (to commemorate the semi-fabulous Cossack regiment which could have been quartered at the present-day city location).\n\nThe President of Ukraine, Petro Poroshenko, signed the bill banning Communist symbols on May 15, 2015, which required places associated with communism to be renamed within a six-month period. On 25 October 2015 (during local elections) 76.6% of the Kirovohrad voters voted for renaming the city to Yelisavetgrad. A draft law currently before the Ukrainian parliament would prohibit any names associated with Russian history since the 14th century, which would make the name Yelisavetgrad inadmissible as well. A committee of the Verkhovna Rada (Ukraine's parliament) chose the name Inhulsk on 23 December 2015. This name is a reference to the nearby Inhul river. On 31 March 2016 the State Construction, Regional Policy and Local Self-Government committee of the Verkhovna Rada recommended to parliament to rename Kirovohrad to Kropyvnytskyi. This name is a reference to writer, actor and playwright Marko Kropyvnytskyi, who was born near the city. On 14 July 2016, the name of the city was finally changed to Kropyvnytskyi.\n\nDeveloped around a military settlement, the city rose to prominence in the 19th century when it became an important trade centre, as well as a Ukrainian cultural leader with the first professional theatrical company in either Central or Eastern Ukraine being established here in 1882.\n\nThe history of the city foundation dates back to the year 1754 when St. Elizabeth's fortress was built on the lands of former Zaporizka Sich in the upper course of the Inhul, Suhokleya and Biyanka Rivers.\nThe historic name of the city Yelysavethrad was changed to Zinovyevsk in 1924, for Kirovo in 1934. The city was renamed Kirovohrad on the 10th of January, 1939.\n\nThe history of Kropyvnytskyi starts from the Fort of St. Elizabeth. This fort was built in 1754 by the will of the empress Elizabeth of Russia and it played a pivotal role in the new lands added to Russia by the Belgrad Peace Treaty of 1739. In 1764 the settlement received status of the center of the Elizabeth province, and in 1784 the status of chief town of a district, when it was renamed after the fort as \"Yelizavetgrad\".\n\nThe Fort of St. Elizabeth was on a crossroads of trade routes, and it eventually became a major trade center. The city has held regular fairs four times a year. Merchants from all over the Russian Empire have visited these fairs. Also, there were numerous foreign merchants, especially from Greece.\n\nElizabethgrad was located in the Pale of Settlement and, during the 19th century, had a substantial Jewish population.\n\nThe first Ukrainian professional theater in Ukraine was built in Kropyvnytskyi in 1882. It was founded by Mark Kropyvnytsky, Tobilevych brothers and Maria Zankovetska.\n\nElizabethgrad was ravaged by famine in 1901 and its residents suffered more due to poor government response. The region is extremely fertile. However, a drought in 1892 and poor farming methods which never allowed the soil to recover, prompted a large famine that plagued the region. According to a 1901 \"New York Times\" article, the Ministry of the Interior denied that the persistence of famine in the region and blocked non-State charities from bringing aid to the area. The reporter wrote, \"The existence of famine was inconvenient at a time when negotiations were pending for foreign loans.\" The governor of the Kherson region, Prince Oblonsky, refused to acknowledge this famine. One non-resident and non-State worker entered Elizabethgrad and provided the \"New York Times\" with an eye-witness account. He observed: general and acute destitution; deaths from starvation; widespread typhus (shows poverty), and little to no work to be found in the region.\n\nElizabethgrad was subjected to several violent pogroms in the late 19th and early 20th century. In 1905 another riot flared, with Christians killing Jews and plundering the Jewish quarter. A contemporary account was reported in the \"New York Times\" on December 13, 1905..\n\nDuring Soviet rule, the city economy was dominated by such enterprises as Chervona Zirka Agricultural Machinery Plant (current name Elvorti; which once provided more than 50% of the USSR need in tractor seeders), Hydrosila Hydraulic Units Plant, Radiy Radio Component Plant, Pishmash Typewriter Plant (de facto defunct nowadays) and others.\n\nIn World War II Kropyvnytskyi was occupied by Nazi Germany from 5 August 1941. It was subsequently recaptured by Soviet forces on 8 January 1944.\n\nDuring the Ukrainian presidential election of 2004, the city got country-wide notoriety because of mass election fraud committed by local authorities. It became known as District 100 (the community number according to Central Elections Committee).\n\nFrom 1878 to 1905 Oleksandr Pashutin was mayor of the city. Under his administration, the city made advances in education and medicine, construction of the water-supply system and several public buildings, introduction of the first tram, and establishing some market places. Yelizavethrad is noted for its architectural quality, with European-type sculpture and old windows. Surviving are a range of classical and modern monuments, Mooresque and Baroque palaces, and buildings that combine Gothic, Rococo and Renaissance motives. A high level of building technology of Yelizavethrad's masters encourages construction and restoration these days.\n\nThe history of Kropyvnytskyi consists of memorable events and biographies of famous people. One of the creators of the unsurpassed modern architectural ensemble of the historical centre of the city of Yelisavethrad, Y. Pauchenko was born and lived here. Such noted architects as A. Dostoyevskyi and O. Lishnevskyi worked here, too.\nP. Kalnyshevsky fought for the Cossacks' freedom on these lands, M. Pirohov laid the foundation of field surgery, M. Kutuzov planned his military operations.\nKirovohraders listened to the lectures of the outstanding slavist V. Hryhorovych, and inherited the fundamental investigations of the native land carried out by the ethnographer, historian, archeologist V. Yastrebov.\n\nIn different periods of time the history of our region was connected with the names of the famous Ukrainian writer, playwright, publicist and statesman V. Vynnychenko, the poet, literary and cultural critic Y. Malanyuk, the physicist-theoretician, the Nobel Prize laureate I. Tamm, the scientist and inventor, one of the creators of the legendary \"Katyusha\" G. Langeman, the composer Y. Meytus, the pianist and pedagogue G. Neigauz, the artist and painter O. Osmiorkin, the poet and translator A. Tarkovskyi, the public and cultural figure, memoirist, patron of the arts Y. Chykalenko, the composer, pianist, pedagogue, musician and publicist K. Shymanovskyi, Ukrainian writer, dramatist and script-writer Y. Yanovskyi.\n\nThe city is in the center of Ukraine and within the Dnieper Upland. The Inhul river flows through Kropyvnytskyi. Within the city, several other smaller rivers and brooks runs in the Inhul; they include the Suhoklia and the Biyanka.\n\nThree blue stripes crossed in the middle of the fortress plan symbolize the fortification location at the confluence of the Inhul, Suhukleya and Biyanka rivers. The crimson colour favoured by Cossacks refers to the fortress being situated on the lands of Zaporozky Cossacks. Golden ears together with a golden field on the shield are symbols of the fertile lands and agricultural wealth of the region.\n\nThe shield is held by storks, which symbolize happiness, fertility, and love for the native land. The golden tower in the form of a crown expresses that this coat of arms belongs to the regional centre. The motto \"With peace and good\" placed on the azure stripe emphasizes the same idea. All the details of the flag correlate with the main elements of the shield on the coat of arms of the city.\n\nToday Kropyvnytskyi is a city of oblast significance with 244,000 inhabitants. It is divided into two districts — Fortechnyi and Podilskyi. The urban-type settlement of Nove is part of the Fortechnyi district. Kropyvnytskyi serves as the administrative center of Kirovohrad Raion, though administratively it does not belong to the raion.\n\n2001 Ukrainian census\n\n\nKropyvnytskyi is in the central region of Ukraine.\nKropyvnytskyi's climate is moderate continental: cold and snowy winters, and hot summers. The seasonal average temperatures are not too cold in winter, not too hot in summer: in January, and in July. The average precipitation is per year, with the most in June and July.\n\n"}
{"id": "869616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=869616", "title": "Land tenure", "text": "Land tenure\n\nIn common law systems, land tenure is the legal regime in which land is owned by an individual, who is said to \"hold\" the land. It determines who can use land, for how long, and under what conditions. Tenure may be based both on official laws and policies, and on informal customs. The French verb \"tenir\" means \"to hold\" and \"tenant\" is the present participle of \"tenir\". The sovereign monarch, known as The Crown, held land in its own right. All private owners are either its tenants or sub-tenants. \"Tenure\" signifies the relationship between tenant and lord, not the relationship between tenant and land. Over history, many different forms of land ownership, i.e., ways of owning land, have been established.\n\nA landholder/landowner is a holder of the estate in land with considerable rights of ownership or, simply put, an owner of land.\n\nHistorically in the system of feudalism, the lords who received land directly from the Crown were called tenants-in-chief. They doled out portions of their land to lesser tenants in exchange for services, who in turn divided it among even lesser tenants. This process—that of granting subordinate tenancies—is known as subinfeudation. In this way, all individuals except the monarch were said to hold the land \"of\" someone else.\n\nHistorically, it was usual for there to be reciprocal duties between lord and tenant. There were different kinds of tenure to fit various kinds of duties that a tenant might owe to a lord. For instance, a military tenure might be by knight-service, requiring the tenant to supply the lord with a number of armed horsemen. The concept of tenure has since evolved into other forms, such as leases and estates.\n\nThere is a great variety of modes of land ownership and tenure.\n\nFor example, most of the indigenous nations or tribes of North America had differing nations of land ownership. Whereas European land ownership centered around control, Indigenous notions were based on stewardship. When Europeans first came to North America, they sometimes disregarded traditional land tenure and simply seized land, or they accommodated traditional land tenure by recognizing it as aboriginal title. This theory formed the basis for treaties with indigenous peoples.\n\nIn several developing countries such as Egypt, Senegal, this method is still presently in use. In Senegal, it is mentioned as \"mise en valeur des zones du terroir\" and in Egypt, it is called Wadaa al-yad.\n\nAllodial title is a system in which real property is owned absolutely free and clear of any superior landlord or sovereign. True allodial title is rare, with most property ownership in the common law world (Australia, Canada, Ireland, New Zealand, United Kingdom, United States) being in fee simple. Allodial title is inalienable, in that it may be conveyed, devised, gifted, or mortgaged by the owner, but it may not be distressed and restrained for collection of taxes or private debts, or condemned (eminent domain) by the government.\n\nFeudal land tenure is a system of mutual obligations under which a royal or noble personage granted a fiefdom — some degree of interest in the use or revenues of a given parcel of land — in exchange for a claim on services such as military service or simply maintenance of the land in which the lord continued to have an interest. This pattern obtained from the level of high nobility as vassals of a monarch down to lesser nobility whose only vassals were their serfs.\n\nUnder common law, Fee simple is the most complete ownership interest one can have in real property, other than the rare Allodial title. The holder can typically freely sell or otherwise transfer that interest or use it to secure a mortgage loan. This picture of \"complete ownership\" is, of course, complicated by the obligation in most places to pay a property tax and by the fact that if the land is mortgaged, there will be a claim on it in the form of a lien. In modern societies, this is the most common form of land ownership. Land can also be owned by more than one party and there are various concurrent estate rules.\n\nIn Australia, native title is a common law concept that recognizes that some indigenous people have certain land rights that derive from their traditional laws and customs. Native title can co-exist with non-indigenous proprietary rights and in some cases different indigenous groups can exercise their native title over the same land.\n\nUnder common law, Life estate is an interest in real property that ends at death. The holder has the use of the land for life, but typically no ability to transfer that interest or to use it to secure a mortgage loan.\n\nUnder common law, fee tail is hereditary, non-transferable ownership of real property. A similar concept, the \"legitime\", exists in civil and Roman law; the \"legitime\" limits the extent to which one may disinherit an heir.\n\nUnder both common law and civil law, land may be leased or rented by its owner to another party. A wide range of arrangements are possible, ranging from very short terms to the 99-year leases common in the United Kingdom, and allowing various degrees of freedom in the use of the property.\n\nRights to use a common may include such rights as the use of a road or the right to graze one's animals on commonly owned land.\n\nWhen sharecropping, one has use of agricultural land owned by another person in exchange for a share of the resulting crop or livestock.\n\nEasements allow one to make certain specific uses of land that is owned by someone else. The most classic easement is right-of-way, but it could also include (for example) the right to run an electrical power line across someone else's land.\n\nIn addition, there are various forms of collective ownership, which typically take either the form of membership in a cooperative, or shares in a corporation, which owns the land (typically by fee simple, but possibly under other arrangements). There are also various hybrids; in many communist states, government ownership of most agricultural land has combined in various ways with tenure for farming collectives.\n\nIn archaeology, traditions of land tenure can be studied according to territoriality and through the ways in which people create and utilize landscape boundaries, both natural and constructed. Less tangible aspects of tenure are harder to qualify, and study of these relies heavily on either the anthropological record (in the case of pre-literate societies) or textual evidence (in the case of literate societies).\n\nIn archaeology, land tenure traditions can be studied across the longue durée, for example land tenure based on kinship and collective property management. This makes it possible to study the long-term consequences of change and development in land tenure systems and agricultural productivity.\n\nMoreover, an archaeological approach to land tenure arrangements studies the temporal aspects of land governance, including their sometimes temporary, impermanent and negotiable aspects as well as uses of past forms of tenure. For example, people can lay claim to, or profess to own resources, through reference to ancestral memory within society. In these cases, the nature of and relationships with aspects of the past, both tangible (e.g. monuments) and intangible (e.g. concepts of history through story telling) are used to legitimize the present.\n\nAll land in China is owned by the central government. Enterprises, farmers, and householders lease land from the state using long-term leases of 20 to 70 years.\n\nFor land ownership in England and Wales see Land tenure in England, English land law and History of English land law.\n\n\n\n\nTenure in the developed world has become less of a rally point or issue than traditionally, however, with exploding homeless populations, the developed world is not immune from these issues. Furthermore, laws such as California Proposition 13 (1978) coupled with soaring home prices can limit severely limit supply, thereby exacerbating homelessness and informal housing arrangements, which can lead to tenure complications. At the same time, property is upended by climate change impacts that are becoming more frequent.\n\nIn the developing world, catastrophes are impacting greater numbers of people due to urbanization, crowding, and weak tenure and legal systems.\n\nThe concepts of landlord and tenant have been recycled to refer to the modern relationship of the parties to land which is held under a lease. It has been pointed out by Professor F.H. Lawson in \"Introduction to the Laws of Property\" (1958), however, that the landlord-tenant relationship never really fitted in the feudal system and was rather an \"alien commercial element\".\n\nThe doctrine of tenure did not apply to personalty (personal property). However, the relationship of bailment in the case of chattels closely resembles the landlord-tenant relationship that can be created in land.\n\nSecure land tenure also recognizes one's legal residential status in urban areas and it is a key characteristics of slums. Slum dwellers do not have legal title to the land and thus are usually marginalized and ignored by the local governments.\n\nIn 2012, the Committee on World Food Security, based at the Food and Agriculture Organization of the United Nations, endorsed the Voluntary Guidelines on the Responsible Governance of Tenure as the global norm, as the problem of poor and politically marginalized especially likely to suffer from insecure tenure, however, this is merely work in progress.\n\n"}
{"id": "806010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=806010", "title": "Landless Workers' Movement", "text": "Landless Workers' Movement\n\nLandless Workers' Movement (, MST) is a social movement in Brazil, inspired by Marxism, generally regarded as one of the largest in Latin America with an estimated informal membership of 1.5 million across 23 of Brazil's 26 states. MST defines its goals as access to the land for poor workers through land reform in Brazil and activism around social issues that make land ownership more difficult to achieve, such as unequal income distribution, racism, sexism, and media monopolies. MST strives to achieve a self-sustainable way of life for the rural poor.\n\nThe MST differs from previous land reform movements in its single-issue focus; land reform for them is a self-justifying cause. The organization maintains that it is legally justified in occupying unproductive land, pointing to the most recent Constitution of Brazil (1988), which contains a passage saying that land should fulfill a social function (Article 5, XXIII). The MST also notes, based on 1996 census statistics, that 3% of the population owns two-thirds of all arable land in Brazil.\n\nLand reform has a long history in Brazil, and the concept pre-dates the MST. In the mid-20th century, Brazilian leftists reached a consensus that democratization and widespread actual exercise of political rights would require land reform. Brazilian political elites actively opposed land reform initiatives, which they felt threatened their social and political status. As such, political leaders of the rural poor attempted to achieve land reform from below, through grassroots action. MST broke new ground by tackling land reform itself, \"breaking... dependent relations with parties, governments, and other institutions\", and framing the issue in purely political terms rather than social, ethical or religious ones.\n\nThe first statute to regulate land ownership in Brazil after its independence, Law 601 or \"Lei de Terras\" (Landed Property Act), took effect September 18, 1850. A colonial administration, based on Portuguese feudal law, had previously considered property ownership to stem from royal grants (\"sesmarias\") and pass through primogeniture (\"morgadio\"). In the independent Brazilian state, the default means of acquiring land was through purchase, from either the state or a previous private owner. This law strongly limited squatter's rights and favoured the historic concentration of land ownership which became a hallmark of modern Brazilian social history. The \"Lei de Terras\" left in place the colonial practice of favouring of large landholdings created by mammoth land grants to well-placed people, which were usually worked by slaves.\n\nIn capitalist terms, continuing the policy favoured economies of scale given the limited number of land owners, but at the same time made it difficult for small planters and peasants to obtain the land needed to practice subsistence agriculture and small-scale farming.\n\nThe consolidation of land ownership into just a few hands had ties to the advent of capitalism in Brazil, and opposition and insurrection in the 19th and early 20th century (for example the Canudos War in the 1890s and the Contestado War in the 1910s) idealized older forms of property and revitalized ideologies centered on a fabled millenarian return to an earlier, pre-bourgeois social order. Advocated by groups led by rogue messianic religious leaders outside the established Catholic hierarchy, these ideologies seemed heretical and revolutionary. Some leftist historians, following the tracks of the groundbreaking 1963 work by journalist (\"Cangaceiros e Fanáticos\"), tend to conflate early 20th-century banditry in northeastern Brazil (\"cangaço\") with messianism as a kind of social banditry, a protest against such social inequalities as the uneven distribution of land assets. This theory developed independently in English-speaking academia around Eric Hobsbawn's 1959 work \"Primitive Rebels\". It was criticized for its unspecific definition of \"social movement\", but also praised for melding political and religious movements, previously separately examined. This blend was later the basis for the MST's emergence.\n\nBoth messianism and \"cangaço \"disappeared in the late 1930s, but in the 1940s and '50s, additional peasant resistance broke out to evictions and land grabbing by powerful ranchers:\nThese local affairs, however, were repressed or settled locally and did not give rise to an ideology. Policy makers and scholars across the political spectrum believed that it was, objectively, an economic necessity to permit the end of Brazilian rural society through mechanized agrobusiness and forcible urbanization. The left in particular felt that the technologically backward, feudal \"latifundia\" impeded both economic modernization and democratization.\n\nDuring the 1960s various groups attempted land reform through the legal system, beginning with the peasant leagues (\"Ligas Camponesas\") in northeastern Brazil, which opposed eviction of tenant farmers land and the transformation of plantations into cattle ranches. These groups questioned the existing distribution of land ownership through a rational appeal to the social function of property. \n\nDespite the efforts of these groups, land ownership continued to concentrate, and both at the time of MST's founding and in the present day Brazil has had a highly dynamic and robust agricultural business sector that came, say some, at the price of extensive dislocation of the rural poor. MST questioned the scope of the benefits from the alleged efficiency of the change, given that since 1850 Brazilian land development had been concerned with the interests of a single class – the rural bourgeoisie. While the MST frames its policies in socio-economic terms, it still points to Canudos and its alleged millenarism to legitimize its existence and to develop a powerful mystique of its own.\n\nA great deal of the early organizing in the MST came from Catholic communities. Much of MST ideology and practice come from a social doctrine of the Catholic Church: that private property should serve a social function. This principle developed during the 19th century and became Catholic doctrine with Pope Leo XIII's \"Rerum novarum\" encyclical, promulgated on the eve of the 1964 military coup. This doctrine was evoked by President João Goulart at a rally in Rio de Janeiro, at which he offered a blueprint for political and social reforms and proposed expropriation of estates larger than 600 hectares in areas near federal facilities such as roads, railroads, reservoirs and sanitation works; these ideas triggered a strong conservative backlash and led to Goulart's loss of power. Nevertheless the Brazilian Catholic hierarchy formally acknowledged the principle in 1980.\n\nIn Brazilian constitutional history, land reform – understood in terms of public management of natural resources – was first explicitly mentioned as a guiding principle of government in the 1967 constitution, which sought to institutionalize an authoritarian consensus after the 1964 coup. The military dictatorship intended to use land reform policy to develop a buffer of conservative small farmers between \"latifundia\" owners and the rural proletariat. In 1969, at the most repressive point of the dictatorship, the 1967 constitution was amended by a decree (\"ato institucional\") by a junta that held interim power during the final illness of president Arthur da Costa e Silva, authorizing government compensation for property expropriated for land reform. This compensation would be made in government bonds rather than cash, previously the only legal practice (Art. 157, §1, as amended by Institutional Act No. 9, 1969).\n\nThe constitution now in effect, passed in 1988, requires that \"property shall serve its social function\" and that the government should \"expropriate for the purpose of agrarian reform, rural property that is not performing its social function.\"\n\nUnder Article 186 of the constitution, a social function is performed when rural property simultaneously meets the following requirements:\n\nSince the criteria are vague and not objectively defined, the social interest principle was seen as a mixed blessing, but accepted in general. Landowners have lobbied against the principle since 1985 through the landowners' organization, União Democrática Ruralista (Democratic Union of Rural People, or UDR), whose rise and organization parallels that of the MST. Although it avowedly dissolved itself in the early 1990s, some believe it persists in informal regional ties between landowners. UDR lobbying over the constitutional text is believed to have watered down concrete enforcement of the \"social interest\" principle.\n\nOne Brazilian law handbook argues that land reform, as understood in the 1988 constitution, is a concept made up of various \"compromises\" on which constitutional law has consistently evaded taking a clear stance, and so one could argue either for or against the MST without leaving the framework of the Constitution. The lack of clear government commitment to land reform precludes the MST engaging in public-interest litigation, so concrete proceedings for land reform are left to the initiative of the groups concerned, through onerous and time-consuming legal proceedings. Given \"the highly problematic and ideologically driven nature of the Brazilian justice system\". all parties have an incentive to resort to more informal methods: \"while the large landowners try to evacuate squatters from their land, squatters might use violence to force institutional intervention favoring them with the land expropriation afterwards [...] violence is mandatory for both sides to achieve their goals\". These tactics raise controversy about the legality of the MST's actions, since it tries to ensure social justice unilaterally.\n\nThe MST identifies rural land it believes to be unproductive and that does not meet its social function, then occupies the land, only afterwards moving to ascertain the legality of the occupation. The MST is represented in these activities by public interest legal counsel, including their own lawyers, sons and daughters of MST families, as well as organizations such as \"Terra de Direitos\", a human rights organization co-founded by Darci Frigo, the 2001 Robert F. Kennedy Memorial Human Rights Award Laureate. The courts might eventually issue a warrant for eviction, requiring the occupier families to leave, or it might deny the landowner's petition and allow the families to stay provisionally and engage in subsistence farming until the federal agency responsible for agrarian reform, Brazil's National Institute for Colonization and Agrarian Reform (INCRA), determines whether occupied property had indeed been unproductive. The MST's legal activity bases itself on the idea that property rights are in a continuous process of social construction, so litigation and seeking to strike sympathy among the judiciary is essential to MST's legitimacy. \n\nTraditionally, Brazilian courts side with landowners and file charges against MST members some call \"frivolous and bizarre\". For instance, in a 2004 land occupation in Pernambuco, a judge issued arrest warrants for MST members and described them as highly dangerous criminals. Nevertheless, many individual judges have shown themselves sympathetic. Brazilian higher courts have usually regarded the MST with reserve: in February 2009, for instance, the then-president of the Brazilian Supreme Court (STF), Gilmar Mendes, declared the MST engaged in \"illicit\" activities and opposed granting it public monies, and supported an \"adequate\" judicial response towards land occupation. The MST leadership has in turn on various occasions charged that the STF as a whole is consistently hostile to the movement. In late 2013, it described the court as \"lackeying to the ruling class\" and \"working for years against the working class and social movements\". This fraught relationship came to a head on February 12, 2014, when a court session was suspended after an attempted invasion of the court building in Brasilia by MST activists, who were met by police firing rubber bullets and tear gas.\n\nThe smashing of the peasant leagues following the 1964 coup opened the way for commercialized agriculture and concentration of land ownership throughout the period of the military dictatorship, and an absolute decline in the rural population during the 1970s. In the mid-1980s, out of 370 million hectares of farm land total, 285 million hectares (77%) were held by latifundia. The re-democratization process in the 1980s, however, allowed grassroots movements to pursue their own interests rather than those of the state and the ruling classes. The emergence of the MST fits into this framework.\n\nBetween late 1980 and early 1981, over 6,000 landless families established an encampment on land located between three unproductive estates in Brazil's southernmost state of Rio Grande do Sul. These families included 600 households expropriated and dislocated in 1974 from nearby to make way for construction of a hydroelectric dam. This first group was later joined by an additional 300 (or, according to other sources, over 1,000) households evicted by FUNAI from the Kaingang Indian reservation in Nonoai, where they had been renting plots since 1968. Local mobilization of the Passo Real and Nonoai people had already achieved some land distribution on non-Indian land, followed by demobilization. Those who had not received land under these claims, joined by others, and led by leaders from the existing regional movement, MASTER (Rio Grande do Sul landless farmers' movement), made up the 1980/1981 encampment. The location became known as the Encruzilhada Natalino. With the support of civil society, including the progressive branch of the Catholic Church, the families resisted a blockade imposed by military force. Enforcement of the blockade was entrusted by the government to Army colonel , already notorious for his past counter-insurgency efforts against the Araguaia guerrillas.\n\nCurió enforced the blockade ruthlessly, most of the landless refused his offer of resettlement on the Amazonian frontier, and eventually pressured the military government into expropriating nearby lands for agrarian reform. The Encruzilhada Natalino episode set a pattern. Most of subsequent early development of the MST concerned exactly the areas of southern Brazil where, in the absence of an open frontier, an ideological appeal at an alternate foundation for access to the land - other than formal private property - was developed in response to the growing difficulties agribusiness posed for family farming. The MST also developed what became its chief \"modus operandi\": local organizing around the concrete struggles of a specific demographic group.\n\nThe MST was officially founded in January 1984, during a National Encounter of landless workers in Cascavel, Paraná, as Brazil's military dictatorship drew to a close. Its founding was strongly connected to Catholic-based organizations such as the Pastoral Land Commission, which provided support and infrastructure.\n\nDuring much of the 1980s, the MST faced political competition from the National Confederacy of Agrarian Workers' (CONTAG), heir to the peasant leagues of the 1960s, who sought land reform strictly through legal means, by favoring trade unionism and striving to wrestle concessions from bosses for rural workers. But the more aggressive tactics of the MST in striving for access to land gave a political legitimacy that soon outshone CONTAG, which limited itself to tradeunionism in the strictest sense, acting until today as a rural branch of the Central Única dos Trabalhadores (CUT). MST eventually all but monopolized political attention as a spokesman for rural workers.\n\nFrom the 1980s on, the MST hasn't had a monopoly of land occupations, many of which are carried out by a host of grassroots organizations (dissidents from the MST, trade unions, informal coalitions of land workers); however, the MST is by far the most organized group dealing in occupations, and has political leverage enough to turn occupation into formal expropriation for public purposes. In 1995, only 89 of 198 occupations (45%) were organized by the MST, but these included 20,500 (65%) out of the grand total of 31,400 families involved.\n\nThe MST is organized entirely, from the grassroots level up to the state and national coordinating bodies, into collective units that make decisions through discussion, reflection and consensus. This non-hierarchical pattern of organization, reflecting liberation theology and Freirean pedagogy, also avoids distinct leadership that can be bought off or assassinated. The basic organizational unit, 10 to 15 families living in an MST encampment settlement, is known as a \"nucleo de base\". A \"nucleo de base\" addresses the issues faced by member families, and members elect two representatives, one woman and one man, to represent them at settlement/encampment meetings. These representatives attend regional meetings, and elect regional representatives who then elect the members of the state coordinating body of the MST, a total of 400 members of state bodies -- around 20 per state -- and 60 members of the national coordinating body, around 2 per state. Every MST family participates in a \"nucleo de base\", roughly 475,000 families, or 1.5 million people. João Pedro Stédile, economist and author of texts on land reform in Brazil, is a member of the MST's national coordinating body.\n\nThe MST is not a political party and has no formal leadership other than a dispersed group of some 15 leaders, whose public appearances are scarce. This secrecy minimizes the risk of arrest and also for preserving a grassroots, decentralized organizational model. This is regarded as an important strategy by the MST, in that it allows the movement to maintain an ongoing and direct flow of communication between member-families and their representatives. Coordinators are aware of the realities faced by member-families and are encouraged to discuss important issues with said families. This organizational blueprint seeks, in a way to empower people politically by having them acting \"in the way they see fit, true to local context\". To assist with communication between Coordinators and member-families, and as an attempt to democratize the media, the MST produces the \"Jornal Sem Terra\" and the \"MST Informa\".\n\nThe structure and goals of the MST has led some authors to consider it a large libertarian socialist, or anarchist organisation.\n\nThe MST is an ideologically eclectic rural movement of hundreds of thousands of landless peasants (and some who live in small cities) striving for land reform in Brazil. The MST has been inspired since its inception by liberation theology, Marxism, the Cuban Revolution, and other leftist ideologies. The flexible mix of discourse that includes \"marxist concepts, popular religion, communal practices, citizenship principles and radical democracy\", has increased the movement's popular appeal.\n\nThe landless say they have found institutional support in the Catholic Church's teachings of social justice and equality, as embodied in the activities of Catholic Base Committees (\"Comissões Eclesiais de Base\", or CEBs) which generally advocate liberation theology and anti-hierarchical social relations. This theology, a radicalized re-reading of the existing social doctrine of the Church, became the basis of the MST's ideology and organizational structure. The loss of influence of progressives in the later Catholic Church, however, has reduced the closeness of the relationship between the MST and the Church as such.\n\nMST's anti-hierarchical stance stems from the influence of Paulo Freire. After working with poor communities in the rural Brazilian state of Pernambuco, Freire observed that aspects of traditional classrooms, such as teachers with more power than students, hindered the potential for success of adults in adult literacy programs. He determined that the students' individual abilities to learn and absorb information were severely impeded by their passive role in the classroom. His teachings encouraged activists to break their passive dependence on oppressive social conditions and become engaged in active modes of behaving and living. In the mid-1980s the MST created a new infrastructure for the movement, directly guided by liberation theology and Freirian pedagogy. They did not elect leaders so as to not create hierarchies, and to prevent corrupt leadership from developing.\n\nThe MST has widened the scope of their movement. They have invaded the headquarters of public and multinational institutions, and begun to resist the appearance of fields of genetically modified crops, carrying out marches, hunger strikes and other political actions. The MST cooperates with a number of rural worker movements and urban movements in other areas of Brazil. The MST also remains in touch with broader international organizations and movements that support and embrace the same cause. The MST includes not only landless workers \"stricto sensu\", or rural workers recently evicted from the land, but also the urban jobless and homeless people who want to make a living by working on the land; thus its affinity with housing reform and other urban movements. The squatters' movement MTST (\"Movimento dos Trabalhadores Sem teto\" - Homeless Workers' Movement) is commonly seem as an offshoot of the MST.\n\nAccording to the MST, it taught over 50,000 landless workers to read and write between 2002 and 2005. It also runs the Popular University of Social Movements (PUSM) at a campus in Guararema, São Paulo. Also called Florestan Fernandes School (FFS), after Marxist scholar Florestan Fernandes, the school offers secondary school classes in a variety of fields; its first graduating class (2005) of 53 students received degrees in Specialized Rural Education and Development. With the University of Brasília, the government of Venezuela and Via Campesina, as well as agreements with federal, state and community colleges, it offers classes in pedagogy, history, and agronomy, and technical subjects at different skill levels. The building was constructed with by brigades of volunteers using soil cement bricks made onsite at the school. The late Oscar Niemeyer designed an auditorium and further sustainable, low environmental impact expansion of the school complex is pending.\n\nThe MST formed its education sector in Rio Grande do Sul in 1986, a year after its first national convention. By 2001, about 150,000 children attended 1,200 primary and secondary schools in its settlements and camps. The schools employ 3,800 teachers, many of them MST-trained. The movement has trained 1,200 educators, who run classes for 25,000 young people and adults. It trains primary-school teachers in most states of Brazil, and partners with international agencies such as UNESCO, UNICEF and the Catholic Church. Seven institutions of higher education in different regions provide degree courses in education for MST teachers. Some call MST communal schools markedly better than their onventional counterparts in rural communities, in both quantitative and qualitative terms.\n\nThe role of the MST as a grassroots organization running charter schools activity has attracted considerable attention from the Brazilian press, much of it accusatory. \"Veja\", Brazil's largest magazine, known for unrestrained hostility to social movements in general published a profile of two MST schools in Rio Grande do Sul and said the MST was \"indoctrinating\" children between 7 and 14. Children were also shown what she called propaganda films, which taught that genetically modified (GMO) products contain \"poison\", and were advised not to eat margarine that might contain GMO soybean. The Brazilian authorities allegedly had no control over MST schools, and according to the profile they did not follow the mandatory national curriculum set out by the Ministry of Education, which calls for \"pluralism of ideas\" and \"tolerance\". \"Preaching\" \"Marxism\" in MST schools was analogous to preaching radical Islam tenets in madrassas, the article said. \n\nThis was just one episode in a long history of mutual very bitter animosity between \"Veja\" and the MST. In 1993, the magazine described the MST as \"a peasant organization of Leninist character\" and charged its leaders and activists with pretending to be homeless. In February 2009 the magazine opposed public support for the \"criminal\" activities of the movement and the MST charged the magazine a year later with \"vandalizing\" both journalism and the truth itself. A recent mention of the MST in \"Veja\" called it \"a criminal mob\". In early 2014, after MST to tried to invade the STF building, a \"Veja\" columnist described said it was \"playing leader to a non-existing cause\". This journalistic mud-slinging has justified at least two academic monographs wholly dedicated to it alone.\n\nOverall the relationship of the mainstream media with the MST has been ambiguous: in the 1990s they tended to support land reform as a goal in general, and presented MST in a sympathetic light. For example, between 1996 and 1997 TV Globo broadcast a \"telenovela\" \"O Rei do Gado\" (The Cattle Baron), in which a beautiful female \"sem terra\" played by actress Patricia Pillar falls in love with a male landowner. In the same \"telenovela\", a wake for the fictitious Senator Caxias, killed while defending an MST occupation, offered the opportunity for two real-life senators from the PT, Eduardo Suplicy and Benedita da Silva, to make cameo appearances as themselves praising their fictive colleague's agenda. \n\nThe media however tend to disavow what they see as violent methods, especially as the movement gathered strength. It does not outright disavow the movement's struggle for land reform, but Brazilian media moralize: \"to deplore the invasion of productive land, the MST's irrationality and lack of responsibility, the ill-using of distributed land parcels and to argue for the existence of alternate peaceful solutions\".\n\nThe increased importance of the technicians and experts within the MST has led some sections of the movement to strive to develop and diffuse technology suitable for a model of sustainable agriculture on the land the families farm. Such self-developed technology is seen as a way to turn small producers from consumers into producers of technologies, - and therefore as a hedge against small producers' dependence on chemical inputs and single-crop price fluctuations and a way to preserving natural resources. These efforts are gaining in importance as more movement families gain access to the land. For example, the Chico Mendes Center for Agroecology, founded May 15, 2004 in Ponta Grossa, Paraná, Brazil on land formerly used by the Monsanto Company to grow genetically modified crops, intends to produce organic, native seed to distribute through MST. Various other experiments in reforestation, taming of native species and medicinal uses of plans have been carried out in MST settlements.\n\nIn 2005, the MST partnered with the federal government of Venezuela, and the state government of Paraná, the Federal University of Paraná (UFPR), and the International Via Campesina, an organization that brings together movements involved in the struggle for land from all over the world, to establish the Latin American School of Agroecology. The school, located in an MST agrarian reform project known as the Contestado settlement, signed a protocol of intentions in January during the fifth World Social Forum.\n\nIn the long history of violent land conflicts in Brazil, the emergence of the MST and its consolidation into the most prominent land reform movement in Brazil during the 1990s led to what has been called a first \"wave\" of MST-led occupations (1995–1999), and with it the movement's involvement in various bloody clashes and ensuing conflicting claims, where government authorities, landowners and the MST charge one other with responsibility for the deaths, maimings and property damages caused by the violence.\n\nIn a notorious 1996 incident usually called the Eldorado de Carajás massacre, 19 MST members were gunned down and another 69 wounded by police as they blocked a state road in Pará. In 1997 alone, similar confrontations with police and landowners' security details accounted for two dozen internationally acknowledged deaths.\n\nIn 2002, the MST occupied the family business farm of then-president Fernando Henrique Cardoso in Minas Gerais, a move publicly condemned by Lula, then leader of the leftist opposition. and other prominent members of the PT. The farm was damaged and looted in the occupation, including the destruction of a combine harvester, a tractor and several pieces of furniture. MST members also drank the entire stock of alcoholic beverages at the farm. In all, 16 MST leaders were later charged with theft, vandalism, trespassing, resisting arrest and for holding others in captivity.\n\nIn 2005, two police officers working undercover on an investigation of cargo truck robberies near an MST homestead in Pernambuco were attacked by criminals. One was shot dead and the other tortured, amid suspicions of MST involvement.\n\nThroughout the early 2000s the MST began to occupy functioning facilities owned by large corporations whose activities it considered at odds with the social function of property. On March 8, 2005, the MST invaded a nursery and a research center in Barra do Ribeiro, 56 km from Porto Alegre, both owned by Aracruz Celulose. The MST members held local guards captive while they ripped plants from the ground. MST president João Pedro Stédile commented that MST should oppose not only landowners but also agrobusiness, \"the project of organization of agriculture by transnational capital allied to capitalist farming\" -- a model he deems socially backwards and environmentally harmful. In the words of an anonymous activist: \"our struggle is not only to win the land ... we are building a new way of life\". The shift had been developing since the movement's 2000 national congress, which concerned itself chiefly with the perceived threat of transnational corporations whether Brazilian or foreign to both small property in general and to Brazilian national food sovereignty, especially in the area of intellectual property. This principle that led to the July 2000 attack on a ship in Recife loaded with GM maize from Argentina. And indeed, from 2000 on, much of the movement's activism consisted in symbolic acts directed against multinational corporations as \"a symbol of the intervention politics of the big monopolies operating in Brazil\".\n\nThe change in strategy could also have corresponded to a perceived shift in government stance since in the late 1990s and early 2000s spokespersons for the Cardoso government declared that Brazil \"had no need\" for land reform, that small farms were not competitive, and were unlikely to increasee personal incomes in rural areas. Therefore they were a foolhardy alternative to policies emphasizing creation of skilled wage-labor positions, since expanding general employment levels would eventually cause the land reform issue to \"recede\" into the background. The MST's actions were denounced by Cardoso as aiming for a return to an archaic agrarian past, and therefore in conflict with \"modernity\": \"one of the enabling myths of the neoliberal discourse\".\n\nCardoso offered lip service to agrarian reform in general, but also described the movement as \"a threat to democracy\". He compared the MST's demands for subsidized credit, which led to the 1998 occupation of various banks in Paraná, to someone \"who enters a bank as a robber\". In a memoir written after he left office, Cardoso expressed sympathy for land reform, stating that \"were I not President, I would probably be out marching with them\", but also saying that \"the image of mobs [sic] taking over privately-owned farms would chase away investment, both local and foreign\". Cardoso himself however never branded the MST as terrorist, a step taken by his Minister of Agricultural Development, who even hypothesized about an invasion of Argentine from the north by the movement as a way to blackmail the Brazilian government into action. In July 1997, Cardoso' Chief of Military Household (\"Chefe da Casa Militar\", i.a. a general comptroller over all issues regarding the military and police forces as armed civil servants) expressed concern about participation of MST activists in the then-ongoing police officers' strikes, as part of a supposed plot to \"destabilize\" the military.\n\nAs far as concrete measures were concerned, Cardoso's stance towards land reform was divided: at the same time it took steps to accelerate public acquisitions of land for settlement and increased taxes on unused land, it also forbade public inspection of invaded land - thereby precluding future expropriation - and the disbursement of public funds to people involved in such invasions. Cardoso's chief land reform project, supported by a World Bank US$90 million loan, was addressed to \"individuals\" who had previous experience in farming and a maximum yearly income of US$15,000, and who were granted a loan of up to US$40,000 if they could associate with other rural producers in order to buy land from a willingly landholder - a land reform programme that catered primarily for substantial small farmers, as opposed to the MST's traditional constituency, the rural poor. Cardoso's project, \"Cédula da Terra\" (\"landcard\") actually offered also previously landless people the opportunity to buy land - but then, only after a \"negotiated\" process in which land would be bought directly from landowners.\n\nIn the words of an American scholar, notwithstanding its efforts in actual resettlement, the issue evaded by the Cardoso government was precisely that of contesting the hitherto ruling mode of agricultural development: concentrated, mechanized, latifundia-friendly commodity production - as well as the larger injustices produced by it. In his own words, what Cardoso could not stomach about the MST was what he saw not as a struggle for land reform, but against the capitalist system as such. Therefore the fact that Cardoso's administration tried to set on its feet various \"alternative\", tamer social movements which were supposed to pressure for land reform on purely negotiated terms, such as the Movement of Landless Producers (\"Movimento dos Agricultores Sem Terra\", or MAST), organized on a local basis in the São Paulo State, around the trade union central Syndical Social Democracy, or SDS.\n\nOpposedly, MST leaders emphasized at the time and since that their practical activity was a response to the existence of a host of destitutes whose prospects of obtaining productive, continuous employment in conventional labor markets was bleak, as admitted even by President Cardoso, who during a 1996 interview, said: \"I'm not to say that my government will be of the excluded, for that it cannot be ... I don't know how many excluded there will be\". Around the same time (2002) João Pedro Stedile admitted that in plotting the movement's politics, one had to keep in mind \"that there are a great many lumpens in the country areas\". - something that in his view should not be held against the working class character of the movement, as a great number of Brazilian rural working class had been \"absorbed\" into the outer periphery of the urban proletariat. Such a view is shared by some academic authors, who argue for the fact that, behind its avowedly \"peasant\" character, the MST, as far as class politics is concerned, is mostly a \"semi proletarian\" movement, congregating people trying to eke out a living, in the absence of formal wage employment, out of a range of activities across a whole section of the social division of labour.\n\nIn a certain way, the MST's activities somewhat filled the void left by the decline of the organized labor movement in the wake of Cardoso's neoliberal policies. Therefore the fact that the movement has taken steps in order to strike alliances with urban based struggles, specially those connected to housing issues. In João Pedro Stedile's words at the time, the concrete struggle for land reform would \"unfold\" in the countryside, but only to be eventually decided in the city, where \"political power for structural change\" resides.\n\nThis supposed opposition to capitalist modernity on the part of the movement has led authors to ascertain that the MST activities express, in a way, the \"decline\" of a traditional peasantry, and its desire of \"restoring\" traditional communal rights. - which would the difference between the MST and a movement for the \"preservation\" of such communal rights as the Zapatista Army of National Liberation.\n\nOthers, however, say that, instead of expressing the \"decline\" of the peasantry, the MST, developing as it was in Brazil, a country where agriculture since colonial times was tied to commodity production, expresses the \"absence\" of a proper peasantry and has as its social basis a rural working class striving at granting a toehold in the field of capitalist production. As remarked by non-specialist foreign onlookers, the MST's tagging of the landless as \"rural workers\" - i.e. proletarians in the Marxist sense - appears sometimes more as a purely ideological branding than anything else.\n\nAccording even to a Leftist scholar like James Petras, the MST is undoubtedly a \"modernizing\" social movement, in that his main goal is to convert fallow states into viable units producing a marketable surplus - \"to occupy, resist and \"produce\"\", as the movement's own motto goes. It is also not a movement with a clear-cut anti-capitalist stance, as what it seeks is to \"create a land reform based on small individual property-owners\". As far as its steads are concerned, the movement has adopted a mostly private enterprise-friendly stance: with the monies it has procured, it has financed mechanization, processing enterprises, livestock breeding, as well as granting access to additional credit sources. Some even see the movement's aims as \"quite limited\" as in practice it tends to merely provide a chance for some people \"to interact with the [ruling] capitalist economy\" by means of a kind of \"guerrilla capitalism\", aimed at ensuring that smaller producers associations carve a share of the market for agrarian produce as against the competition of mammoth agribusiness trusts.\n\nIn the view of Marxist authors as Petras and Veltmeyer, such a stance would reflect the incapacity of a heterogeneous coalition of rural people to engage in a broad anti-systemic coalition which would include the urban working classes. Shunning this Marxist paradigm, other authors see in the rhetoric of the MST the reflection of an ideological struggle, not for taking power, but for \"recognizance\", for \"reconstituting the diversity of rural Brazil\". This struggle for recognizance - despite its being couched in fiery radical rhetoric - is seen by some as \"indeed relevant for the democratization of 'rural society', but [it does] not entail political motivations destined to promote ruptures\". In even more blunt terms, a recent academic paper asserts that the ideology of the MST, connected as it is in practice with the landlesss' concrete needs for making out a living in the countryside, is above all an \"edible\" ideology. A recent German handbook describes the MST as a mere \"pressure group\", unable to exert actual political power. Other authors, however, maintain that the interest of the MST in maximize its members' everyday participation in the running of their own affairs is enough to describe the movement as \"socialist\" in a broad sense.\n\nThe Lula government was seen by the MST as a leftist and therefore friendly government, so they decided to shun occupations of public buildings in favor of actions directed solely towards private landed states, in a second wave of occupations from 2003 onwards. However, the increasingly conservative positions of the Lula government, including its low profile on land reform, actually somewhat less than achieved by Cardoso in his first term) impelled the movement to change its stance as early as early 2004, when it again began to occupy public buildings and Banco do Brasil agencies.\n\nIn June 2003, the MST occupied the R&D farm of Monsanto Company in the state of Goiás. On March 7, 2008, a similar action by women activists at another Monsanto facility at Santa Cruz das Palmeiras, São Paulo, destroyed a nursery and an experimental patch of genetically modified maize, slowing ongoing scientific research. MST said they destroyed the research facility to protest government support for the extensive use of GMOs supplied by transnational corporations in agriculture. In 2003 Lula authorized the sale and use of GM soybeans, which led MST's Stedile to call him a \"transgenic politician\". The dominance of transnationals over Brazilian seed production was summed by the fact that the Brazilian hybrid seed industry in the early 2000s already was 82% Monsanto-owned, which the MST saw as detrimental to the development of organic agriculture in spite of the economic benefits, and enabling possible future health hazards similar to those posed by the intensive use of pesticides, Stedile later called Monsantp one of the ten transnational companies that controlled virtually all international agrarian production and commodity trading. A similar episode happened in 2006; the MST occupied a research station in Paraná owned by Swiss corporation Syngenta, which had produced GMO contamination near the Iguaçu National Park. After a bitter confrontation over the existence of the station (which included easing of previous restrictions by the Lula government to allow Syngenta to continue GMO research), the premises were transferred to the Paraná state government and converted into an agroecology research center.\n\nAfter an exchange of barbs between Lula and Stedile over what Lula saw as an unnecessary radicalization of the movement's demands, the MST decided to call a huge national demonstration: in May 2005, after a two-week, 200-odd kilometer march from the city of Goiânia, nearly 13,000 landless workers arrived in their nation's capital, Brasilia. The MST march targeted the U.S. embassy and Brazilian Finance Ministry, rather than President Lula. While thousands of landless carried banners and scythes through the streets, a delegation of 50 held a three-hour meeting with Lula, who donned an MST cap for the cameras. During this session Lula recommitted to settling 430,000 families by the end of 2006 and agreed to allocate the necessary human and financial resources to accomplish this goal. He also committed to a range of related reforms, including an increase in the pool of lands available for redistribution [Ramos, 2005]. Later the Lula government would claim to have resettled 381,419 families between 2002 and 2006 - a claim disputed by the MST. The movement claimed the numbers had been doctored by the inclusion of people already living in areas (national forests and other managed areas of environmental protection, as well as other already existing settlements) where their presence had only been legally acknowledged by the government. The MST also criticised Lula's administration to call mere land redistribution by means of handing out of small plots land reform, when it was simply a form of welfarism (\"assistencialismo\") unable to change the productive system.\n\nThe march was held to demand – among other things – that Brazil's President Lula implement his own limited agrarian reform plan rather than spend the project's budget on servicing the national debt [Ramos, 2005]. Several leaders of the MST met with President Lula da Silva on May 18, 2005- a meeting that had been resisted by Lula since his taking of office. The leaders presented President Lula with a list of 16 demands of which included economic reform, greater public spending, and public housing. Afterwards during interviews with Reuters, many of the leaders said that they still regarded President Lula as an ally but demanded that he accelerate his promised land reforms. However, late the same year, in September, João Pedro Stedile declared that, as far as land reform was concerned, Lula's government was \"finished\". By the end of Lula's first term, it was clear that the MST had decided to act again as a separate movement, irrespective of the government's agenda. As far as the MST was concerned, the greatest gain it received from the Lula government was the \"non-criminalization\" of the movement itself- the tough anti-occupation measures taken by the Cardoso government were left in abeyance and not enforced. Attempts at lawmaking that could be tailored in order to define the MST as a \"terrorist organization\" were also successfully opposed by Workers' Party congresspersons. Nevertheless, the Lula government never acted in tandem with the MST, according to a general pattern of keeping organized social movements outside the fostering of the government's agenda.\n\nInto a nutshell, however, as stated by a German author, in terms of land reform, what the Lula government did in general was to forward, year after year, a blueprint that was also regularly blockaded by regional agrarian elites.\n\nLula's election to the presidency raised the possibility of active government support for land reform, so conservative media increased their efforts to brand the MST's actions as felonies. In May 2005, \"Veja\" accused the MST of helping the Primeiro Comando da Capital (PCC), the most powerful prison-gang criminal organization in the São Paulo. A police phone tap recording of a conversation between PCC leaders mentioned the MST; one of them said he had \"just talked with the leaders of the MST\", who would \"give instructions\" to the gang about the best ways to stage what became the largest protest by prisoners' relatives in Brazilian history. On April 18, 2005 some 3,000 relatives protested prevailing conditions in São Paulo correctional facilities. The MST \"leaders\" were not named. No MST activist, real or alleged, took part in the taped conversations. The MST denied any link in a formal written statement calling the supposed evidence only hearsay, and an attempt to criminalize the movement. In the wake of 9-11, Brazilian media tended to describe the MST as \"terrorist\", lumping it together loosely with various historical and mediatic happenings in keeping with an international post-9-11 trend to relegate any political movement against existing globalization to beyond the pale and outside the boundaries of permissible political discourse.\n\nThe MST assumes its activities are continuously surveilled by military intelligence. Various intelligence organs, Brazilian and foreign, assume a relationship between the MST and various terrorist groups. The MST is regarded as a source of \"civil unrest\".\n\nA parliamentary inquiry commission where landowner-friendly congressmen held a majority classified the MST's activities as terrorism in late 2005, and the MST itself as a criminal organization. Its report met with no support from the PT members of the commission however, and a senator ripped it up before TV cameras, saying that those who voted for it were \"accomplices of murder, people who use slave labor, who embezzle land illegally\". Nevertheless, based on this report, a bill presented to the Chamber of Deputies in 2006 by Congressman Abelardo Lupion (Democrats- Paraná), proposed making \"invading others' property with the end of pressuring the government\" a terrorist action and therefore a heinous crime. A \"heinous\" crime in Brazilian law is a felony, designated as such in a 1990 Brazilian law, and those accused of committing them are ineligible for pretrial release.\n\nIn April 2006, the MST took over the farm of Suzano Papel e Celulose, a large maker of paper products, in the state of Bahia, because it had more than six square kilometres devoted to eucalyptus growth. Eucalyptus, a non-native plant, has been blamed for environmental degradation in northeastern Brazil, as well as reducing and reducing the availability of land for small agricultural production, called by some \"cornering\" producers (\"encurralados pelo eucalipto\"). In 2011, \"Veja\" described such activities as plain theft of eucalyptus wood, quoting an estimate from the state's military police that 3,000 people earned a living in Southern Bahia from theft of wood.\n\nIn 2008 a group of public attorneys from Rio Grande do Sul working with the state's military police issued a report charging the MST with collusion with international terrorist groups. The report is used in state courts, according to Amnesty International, to justify eviction orders carried out by the police with what \"excessive use of force\". The group of attorneys made public a previously classified report bu the Council of Public Attorneys of Rio Grande do Sul asking the state to ban the MST by declaring it an illegal organization. \n\nThe report declared further investigation pointless, \"as it was public knowledge that the movement and its leadership were guilty of engaging in organized criminality\".The report also proposed that where MST activists could \"cause electoral disequilibrium\", the activists' right to vote be withdrawn by striking them from the voter registry. Declarations issued at the same time by the State Association of Military Policy Commissioned Officers, in an open Red Scare vein, declared the MST \"an organized movement striving at instituting a totalitarian state in our country\".\n\nBetween September 27 and October 7, 2009, the MST occupied an orange plantation in Borebi, State of São Paulo, owned by orange juice multinational Cutrale, the said corporation claiming to have suffered losses worth R$1.2 million (roughly US$603,000) in damaged equipment, missing pesticide, destroyed crops and trees cut by MST activists. The MST replied by declaring the farm to be government property, illegally embezzled by Cutrale, and that the occupation was intended as a protest against this state of affairs, the concomitant destruction being the work of provocateurs.- such questioning of the \"formal\" legality of existing private property by denouncing landowers as helding land in adverse possession being one of the movement's main political tools. The Cutrale plantation, Fazenda S. Henrique, was occupied by the MST four more times until 2013, and the multinational's property rights over it are being contested in court by the Federal Government, who alleges that the farm lands were set aside as part of a 1910 settlement projects for foreign immigrants, rights over it going afterward astray during the following century.\n\nDuring the same period, the MST also repeatedly created roadblocks, blocking highways and railroads, which was part of a strategy of creating media events in order to call the general public's attention to landless workers' plight.\n\nThe MST wholeheartedly declared support for Dilma Rousseff's candidacy, but once elected she offered the movement very qualified support. In a national broadcast in November 2010, she declared land reform a question \"of human rights\", i.e., a purely humanitarian one. As Lula's chief of staff she supported economic growth even at variance with ecological and land reform concerns. In a radio interview during the campaign she repeated the old conservative hope that economic growth could make Brazilian land issues recede: \"What we are doing is doing away with the real basis for the instabilities of the landless. They are losing reasons to fight\". Thus one author described the MST's endorsement of Rousseff as a choice of the \"lesser evil\".\n\nConsolidation of land ownership continued unabated. In 2006, according to the property census, the Gini index of land concentration stood at 0.854, while at the beginning of military regime, in 1967, it was at 0.836. In other words concentration of land ownership into just a few hands actually increased. Current Brazilian economic policy especially in foreign exchange, relies on trade surpluses generated by the agricultural exports, so \"the correlation of forces moves against agrarian reform\". The resumption of sustained general economic growth in the Lula years might have greatly diminished social demand for land reform, especially among the informally and/or under-employed urban workers who form most of the movements' later membership. In a recent interview a member of the MST national caucus, Joaquim Pinheiro, declared that the recent increase in welfare spending and employment levels had had a \"sobering\" influence on Brazilian agrarian activism, but he declared himself in favor or government spending on social programs, adding that the MST feared however that people would become \"hostages\" to such programs. But as of 2006, according to the MST, 150,000 families lived in its encampments, compared to 12,805 families in 1990.\n\nViolent opposition to the movement's activities from state agencies and private individuals continues unabated. On 16 February 2012, eighty families were evicted from an occupation in Alagoas, of a farm rented to a sugar mill awash in unpaid debts. According to MST activist Janaina Stronzake, MST assumes that landowners have a hit list of MST leaders. Many have in fact been killed, although some murders were doctored to make them look like accidents. In April 2014 a Global Witness report called Brazil \"the most dangerous place to defend rights to land and the environment\", with at least 448 people killed between 2002 and 2013 in disputes over environmental rights and access to land. A report for the Catholic Pastoral Land Commission, \"Land Conflicts in Brazil 2013\", estimated that land struggles were involved in 34 murders in Brazil in 2013, and 36 in 2012.\n\nOn April 16 2012, a group of MST activists occupied the headquarters in Brasília of the Ministry of Agrarian Development, as part of the movement's regular \"Red April\" campaign, a yearly nationwide occupation initiative in honor of the April 1996 Eldorado dos Carajás massacre. Minister declared ongoing talks between the government and the MST suspended for the duration of the occupation.\n\nLand activists were dissatisfied the slowing pace of official land reform projects under the Rousseff government. Fewer families were officially settled in 2011 than in the previous 16 years. Government reaction to the occupation sparked widespread accusations from the PT base that Rousseff had sold out. In a 2012 interview, Stedile admitted that the movement had not benefited from the policies of the PT administrations, since the coalition governments of the PT could not act politically on behalf of land reform. \n\nBoth political pundits and activists thought Rousseff's first term was a lean period for land reform, and mainstream media called the MST not only \"tamed\" by the two consecutive PT administrations, and drained of mass support by steady economic growth and expanding employment, denying the movement its chief \"raison d'être\". In 2013 it attempted only 110 occupations. Retrieved January 5, 2014</ref> and this year saw another all-time low yearly number, only 159 families resettled in land reform plans. MST National Coordinator João Paulo Rodrigues said that the federal government's reliance on agribusiness exports for procuring hard currency was the chief reason the Rousseff administration not only wasn't moving land reform forward, \"but , on the contrary, having gone backward in some instances\". The only recent advances in land reform policies had come in such programs as the National Program for School Meals (PNAE) and Food Catering Plan (PAA), which buy foodstuffs from land reform farmers for consumption at public schools and other government facilities. Such programs are however \"entirely disproportionate to what is being offered [in terms of public monies, subsidized credits, etc. to agribusiness\", he said, and the only chance for land reform in Brazil would be a kind of joint venture between small producers and urban working class consumers, as simple land redistribution would be fated to fail, as it had in Venezuela, \"where Hugo Chávez stockedpiled seven million hectares of nationalized land property which remained unused for want of proper peasants\". \n\nThe PT government's base generally felt that the vested interest of agribusiness in setting development policies during the Lula and Rousseff administrations was enough to hamper any attempt at a more aggressive policy of expropriation and land reform.\n\nDuring November 2014, amid the radicalization surrounding Roussef's reelection to a second term, an unannounced visit to Brazil by Venezuelan Minister for Communities and Social Movements Elias Jaua led to an information exchange agreement in agro-ecology between the MST and the Venezuelan government. The visit and resulting agreement created tension among the conservative in the Brazilian Congress; Senator and landowner Ronaldo Caiado describing the agreement as \"an arrngement between a high-placed representative of a foreign government and an unlawful entity, aimed at building a socialist society\". The movement described Caiado's reaction as evidence that \"conservative sectors are hostile to any form of grassroots participation [in the political process]\".\n\nDuring November 2014, and the radicalization around Roussef's reelection, an unannounced visit to Brazil by the Venezuelan Minister for Communities and Social Movements Elias Jaua led to an agro-ecology information exchange agreement between the MST and the Venezuelan government. The visit and resulting agreement created tension among the conservative in the Brazilian Congress; Senator and landowner Ronaldo Caiado describing the agreement as \"an arraa clearly more conservative stance on land reform, and therefore, less maneuvering room for the MST. Rousseff chose for her second-term cabinet the notorious female landowner Kátia Abreu, an even clearer sign of limited room. However, some suggested that the ongoing tension between the MST and the PT, far from signaling an impending end, on the contrary suggests a \"reconfiguration\" of the MST, from a single-issue movement to wider focus on political and social emancipation. Such a tendency has been expressed in the integration, since the 1990s, of MST with various other grassroots organization in a network sponsored by progressive Catholics, the CMP (\"Central de Movimentos Populares\", or Union of Popular Movements) through which the MST developed its collaboration with its urban \"sister\" organization, the MTST.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36799260", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36799260", "title": "List of active non-governmental organizations of national minorities, indigenous and diasporas", "text": "List of active non-governmental organizations of national minorities, indigenous and diasporas\n\nThis is a list of notable active non-governmental organizations of national minorities, indigenous and diasporas.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54097401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54097401", "title": "List of women's conferences", "text": "List of women's conferences\n\nThis is a chronological list of women's conferences.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3102779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3102779", "title": "Loretta Nall", "text": "Loretta Nall\n\nLoretta Nall is the founder of the United States Marijuana Party (USMJP) which calls for the legalization of cannabis. She was a write-in candidate for governor of Alabama in 2006.\n\nNall founded the USMJP in 2002. In 2005, she co-founded Alabamians for Caring Use, a medical marijuana advocacy/lobbying group. Before his 2005 Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada, arrest, the so-called \"Prince of Pot,\" Marc Emery, employed Nall under the auspices of \"Cannabis Culture\" magazine. Nall herself was booked and jailed for less than one day on September 17, 2002, for possession of marijuana and drug paraphernalia after police made a search of her home.\n\nBesides advocating the legalization of cannabis in the United States, Nall is also an outspoken critic of the worldwide War on Drugs. After a 2004 visit to Colombia, she has spoken and written against the United States and Colombian militaries' aerial destruction of Colombian coca fields with herbicides, citing dangers to local human populations and the environment.\n\nNall also calls for tax credits for homeschoolers, American withdrawal from the Iraq War, an end to the war on drugs and she opposes the No Child Left Behind, USA PATRIOT, and REAL ID acts. Nall is a contributor to LewRockwell.com.\n\nNall secured the Libertarian Party of Alabama's 2006 nomination for governor of Alabama at the party's 8 April 2006 convention in Montgomery, Alabama. Since Nall's campaign failed to collect the 40,000+ signatures required to achieve statewide ballot access in Alabama, she ran as a write-in candidate against Republican incumbent Bob Riley and Democratic challenger Lucy Baxley. Nall's campaign was covered by national media after pictures of the candidate that revealed her buxom appearance drew comments from local political commentator Bob Ingram. Ingram concluded a 7 March 2006 op-ed in the \"Montgomery Independent\" with the following comment:\nThe election was won by Riley, with Nall receiving only 235 votes, or 0.02%, but she says that she will continue to run for Alabama office in the future.\n\nIn November 2007, to protest the Anti-Obscenity Enforcement Act of 1998, Nall organized a sex toy drive, encouraging people to mail sex toys to Alabama Attorney General Troy King, who sought to prosecute shops that sell the devices.\n\n"}
{"id": "31317616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31317616", "title": "MVaaS", "text": "MVaaS\n\nMVaaS is an acronym for managed video as a service. It refers to a systems architecture used by companies that provide or enable video monitoring services, to allow them and their customers to more easily manage large numbers of digital video recorders (DVRs) or network video recorders (NVRs).\n\nIn any scalable video monitoring architecture, the information about a customer’s physical locations, the video recorders and cameras at those locations, and the customer’s users must be stored in a central database. In a traditional architecture, each customer is responsible for hosting their own database.\n\nIn an MVaaS architecture, this database is managed by the video monitoring provider, not by the customer. The customer interacts with the database, and with their video recorders, using a website also managed by the video monitoring provider. Because the customer is freed from the details of hosting the database and web site, this information is sometimes said to be “in the cloud”. Indeed, the term MVaaS is intentionally similar to the more common term SaaS, software as a service.\n\nThe term \"managed video\" refers to the fact that in this architecture, the customer’s video remains on the video recorders at the customer premises and is not stored in the central database. The central database holds all the information that mediates access to the video, and is important for maintaining and configuring the video recorders, but does not contain the video itself. This ensures that the customer always has ultimate control of their video, and frees the customer and the video monitoring company from having to continuously consume bandwidth to transfer video from the video recorders to the central database.\n\nUnder an MVaaS architecture, additional information may be stored in the central database besides just the information about the video recorders and users. For example, the video monitoring company may store observations or comments for each camera, or a log of which camera was monitored when.\n\nAn alternative to MVaaS is Hosted Video as a Service, HVaaS. This architecture is like MVaaS, except the customer’s video is physically stored in the central database. Some customers prefer this because it allows them to simplify the video recorders that are on their premises.\n"}
{"id": "30772887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30772887", "title": "Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development (Georgia)", "text": "Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development (Georgia)\n\nThe Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development () is a ministry of the government of Georgia in charge of regulating economic activity in the country. Its head office is in Tbilisi. It is currently headed by Dimitri Kumsishvili.\n\nThe Ministry of Economic Development was established after dissolution of Soviet Union. It was renamed to Ministry of Economy and Sustainable Development during government restructuring in 2010.\nThe main functions of the ministry are to provide incentives for economic growth in the country utilizing an effective economic policy. The economic policies of the state are described in the action plan of the Georgian Government for 2004-2009 titled \"For United and Powerful Georgia\". The policies include utilization of macroeconomic policy and private entrepreneurship development. The economic reforms undertaken by the government include liberalization of entrepreneurial activities, creation of favorable, transparent and stable legislation for private business owners; realization of active privatization process and support to strengthening of private sector; facilitation of issuance of licenses and permits and reform of the system of technical regulation; economic deregulation and protection of markets against monopolization; development of tourism, transport and communication infrastructure, etc.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28237292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28237292", "title": "NES Financial", "text": "NES Financial\n\nNES Financial is a privately held company that provides services for financial transactions. The company focuses its services on 1031 exchanges, EB-5, and escrow, and fund administration. NES Financial is based in San Jose, California and maintains a regional office in Boston.\n\nNES Financial was founded in 2005 in Silicon Valley. The company, originally named Nationwide Exchange Services Corporation, tried to set a new industry standard for Qualified intermediaries (QI) facilitated IRC 1031 exchanges.\nNES Financial developed a proprietary platform, eSTAC, for clients to view and administer activities from their accounts, in real-time.\n\nNES broadened its core business into two other financial industries - trust and escrows. The company expanded into these markets, and by 2010, had outgrown its original vision, prompting a rebranding to NES Financial.\n\nNES Financial is a third party administrator of complex escrow and fund administration transactions such as EB-5 and 1031 exchanges. Each year the company voluntarily undergoes a compliance examination of its administrative processes for , the same certification needed to obtain a federal bank charter and comply with Sarbanes-Oxley Section 404 requirements.\n\nIn 2011 and again in 2012, Inc. Magazine's 500|5000 recognized NES Financial as one of the fastest-growing private companies in America with its three-year growth hitting 179%. In 2014, it serviced more than $85 billion in transactions.\n\nIn 2005, NES Financial acquired Exchanging.com and Nationwide 1031.\n\nIn October 2006, NES Financial acquired Cole Taylor Tax Deferred Exchange, a division of Cole Taylor Bank.\n\nIn November 2008, JP Morgan Property Exchange (JPEX) from JP Morgan Chase.\n\nNES Financial's transaction administration services use its proprietary eSTAC technology. This cloud-based platform was designed to administer and track the entire life cycle of an account and its transactions.\n\neSTAC sets the controls for documentation and management of account information, to automate routine processes and secure clients' funds. The platform combines back-end and front-end architecture, a design that integrates into existing systems.\n\nThe company's escrow and fund administration services provide customizable and compliant administration of client funds. As with traditional fund administrators, NES Financial provides accounting for the fund and its participants: financial reports, investor statements, tax reports, and capital allocation reports.\n\nNES Financial simplifies escrow administration by helping Regional Centers and developers manage their bank and escrow needs, centralize document storage, provide virtual file sharing, and improve security, transparency, and compliance. On January 8, 2013, NES Financial announced two EB-5 escrow products for construction and capital returns.\n\nNES Financial helps businesses that need to sell or invest in assets and want tax breaks. The company's qualified intermediary (QI) status, in-house expertise, and automated technologies help companies administrate 1031 exchange types, including forward, reverse, and like-kind exchange programs.\n\nNES Financial solutions are suited for industries, including:\n\nAviation: NES Financial facilitates 1031 exchanges when companies need to sell and replace aircraft. This allows companies to defer taxes and reduce cash outlay on new aircraft.\n\nCommercial Real estate: NES Financial provides sectors within the real estate industry the programs to ensure security of funds, regulatory compliance, and transparency of processes. The company provides other companies in the commercial real estate, legal, and M&A markets with the expertise, technology, and administrative resources.\n\nLeasing: Leasing companies that exchange old equipment for new equipment, such as fleets of vehicles, aircraft, or industrial equipment, can defer taxes on capital gains and depreciation recapture with the company's 1031 exchange program.\n\nFollowing the financial crisis of 2007-2008, NES Financial focused its efforts in Washington D.C. Led by CEO Michael Halloran, the company lobbied tirelessly to improved 1031 industry regulations. Despite Halloran's nearly two years worth of efforts, the Dodd–Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act of 2010 did not include additional 1031 regulations.\n\nIn 2013, NES Financial was chosen as the 2013 EB-5 Service Provider of the Year by Artisan Business Group.\n"}
{"id": "31554080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31554080", "title": "New Yorkers United for Marriage", "text": "New Yorkers United for Marriage\n\nNew Yorkers United for Marriage is an LGBT rights umbrella group in the US State of New York, formed on April 20, 2011 in order to coordinate and organize the push for the legalization of same-sex marriage within the state. Participating groups in the coalition include Empire State Pride Agenda, Marriage Equality New York, as well as the New York State chapters of Freedom to Marry, Human Rights Campaign, GLAAD, the League of Women Voters, and the Log Cabin Republicans.\n\n"}
{"id": "47867950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47867950", "title": "Paper Money riot", "text": "Paper Money riot\n\nThe Paper Money Riot, or Exeter Rebellion, was an armed uprising in Exeter, New Hampshire, on September 20, 1786. Following the American Revolution, the nation, states, and many individuals were deeply in debt. The lack of specie and paper currency in circulation made the payment of debts difficult for poor farmers. A group calling themselves Regulators called for the printing of paper money, believing that issuing paper notes on credit would help to stimulate the state's economy.\n\nMany towns held conventions to draft petitions to the legislature over the issue of paper currency. These petitions fell on deaf ears. The Regulators grew ever more frustrated by this, and occasionally their protests turned violent.\n\nEventually the Regulators in Rockingham County armed themselves and marched on Exeter to demand the New Hampshire General Court immediately issue money. New Hampshire's President at the time, John Sullivan, was able to calm the situation, and convinced the mob to disperse for the night.\n\nMeanwhile, he sent word to the surrounding towns to raise their militia and assemble in Exeter. The following morning, around 2,000 men had mustered, and they moved out to ambush the rebels' camp. The rebels were caught completely off guard, and they scattered into the woods. Most of the leaders were captured, but later pardoned.\n\nThis event took place during the time of Shays' Rebellion. New Hampshire's government was able to put down the rebellion without further incident or a prolonged engagement. It is one of the events which led to the Constitutional Convention a year later.\n\nAfter the Revolutionary War, debt was rampant in the country. The Continental Dollar had depreciated, rendering it an inexpedient form of currency. Hard currency was also scarce at this time. Congress had issued a requisition to the states in order to pay off their debt, roughly 30% of which was to be paid in hard currency. The result was a shortage of money circulating within the states, leaving many farmers unable to pay their personal debts. Commodities and property were appraised, and confiscated in order to make payments on these debts.\n\nThe first convention to address the issue in New Hampshire was held in Concord. In attendance were many opponents of the paper money scheme, including William Plumer. The opponents planned to make a mockery of the proceedings by having some of their members pretend to be in favor of the Regulators.\n\nThe convention drafted a petition to send to the legislature in Exeter, and it was tabled in the House. Speaker of the House John Langdon was aware of the prank, and played along until the ruse was exposed. Those conventioneers who were sincere in their monetary reforms felt disenfranchised. Each subsequent town meeting yielded similar results. The farmers felt that their voices were not being heard by their government.\n\nIn 1782, armed rioters in Keene shut down the courthouse, in an attempt to stall cases being heard regarding debts. John Sullivan was the state's attorney general at the time, and on his way into Keene when he heard about the armed mob. He donned his Continental Army uniform, then proceeded to the courthouse. He listened to the crowd's demands and told them to disperse. Many of the rioters were former soldiers of Sullivan's, so he used this status to his advantage. They reluctantly left, and court was adjourned for the day.\n\nThe following morning, the courthouse was packed with townsfolk eager to hear if their reform petition would be heard. Much to their relief, Sullivan had decided to skip any case where either party was not ready to proceed. Feeling that they had achieved their goal, the rioters left the court to its business, and cheered General Sullivan for hearing their demands.\n\nBut this did not fix New Hampshire's money problems. The lack of currency continued to plague debtors, and they were forced to liquidate property, or even face prison sentences. And their petitioning of the state legislature continued to fall on deaf ears. Many who supported the petitions began to spread rumors that the bill had already passed, and the disenfranchised would be refunded the value of their seized property. The bill failed to pass, and the Regulators sought to solve their grievances at gunpoint.\n\nOn September 20, 1786, 200 men from Rockingham County gathered in Kingston. They were allegedly encouraged by Jonathan Moulton and Nathaniel Peabody. The mob was led by three men: Joseph French from Hampstead, James Cochran from Pembroke, and John McKean from Londonderry.\n\nFrom Kingston the crowd marched in a military column to Exeter. Their plan was to surround the town meeting house (where the General Court typically conducted business), and to force the assembly to print currency. By chance, on this particular day the legislature was meeting in the First Church of Exeter, and the Superior Court was in session in the meeting house. When the rioters surrounded the court, the presiding judge, Samuel Livermore, ordered the room to ignore them. He then continued with the court's business.\n\nOnce the rebels finally realized their error, a crowd had congregated to witness the ruckus. As they tried to make their way over to the church, they met with opposition from the people of Exeter. It took quite a bit of effort to get through the crowd to the doors. Once there, sentries were posted to prevent anyone from entering or exiting the building.\n\nAgain, John Sullivan (now President of New Hampshire) engaged the mob as he had done in Keene several years prior. After discussing the matter with the insurgents, he promised to do all he could to appease then. He did not disperse the rioters, because he thought they would calm down if allowed to assemble freely.\n\nMany of the citizens of Exeter were displeased that armed men had invaded their town. Nathaniel Gilman orchestrated a ruse to break the siege. He gathered a few townspeople and began marching them in a military fashion towards the rebels. They gave the impression that they were Hackett's Artillery Company from Portsmouth. The ruse worked, and the Regulators finally dispersed. They crossed the river on the road back to Kingston and set up camp on the far side.\n\nNow that the legislature was free to exit the church, they granted President Sullivan the power to send word out to nearby towns and call upon the militia. By the next morning, roughly 2,000 men had mustered in Exeter. They marched until they were near the rebels' camp, then a cavalry detachment under the command of Joseph Cilley crossed the river and cut off their retreat. The insurgents, now surrounded by state troops, fired only a few shots before scattering into the woods.\n\nSeveral members of the uprising were caught, including the leaders. The following day, French, Cochrane, and McKean were brought before the General Court to answer to the charge of treason. The men argued that they were encouraged by Moulton and Peabody (who were both members of the legislature), but these men denied their involvement. French is said to have pleaded for his life, while Cochrane only for a pardon. Though they were indicted, they were immediately pardoned. Any rebels who were also militiamen were dismissed.\n\nThe Legislature did eventually write a bill concerning the issuance of paper money. The proposal was issued to the towns who were to vote on the issue, and send their replies to the legislature. These came back with the majority against it. President Sullivan outlawed conventions for the purpose of petitioning the government, because they were considered to undermine the state's authority. The government also used this opportunity to allow the governor to call up the militia in times of unrest. The only other uprising of this nature occurred in Grafton County, where farmers burned a courthouse.\n\nThis episode in New Hampshire's history highlighted the problems with the Articles of Confederation. It occurred at the same time as Shays' Rebellion, though it was put down quickly, and without bloodshed. Like the agrarian uprisings in Massachusetts and other states, it paved the way for the Constitutional Convention, and the Coinage Act of 1792. \n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "24225463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24225463", "title": "Party of Greek Hunters", "text": "Party of Greek Hunters\n\nThe Party of Greek Hunters (, KEK), is a minor Greek political party that advocates the rights of hunters. It is led by Giorgos Tsagkanelias.\n\n"}
{"id": "20156816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20156816", "title": "Personal Information Agent", "text": "Personal Information Agent\n\nA Personal Information Agent (PIA) is an individual, business, or organization who is expressly authorized by another identifiable individual in dealings with third persons, businesses or organizations concerning Personally identifiable information (PII). PIA status allows access to information pertaining to an identifiable individual and the records and associated files of that identifiable individual. This normally includes, but is not limited to, financial files, correspondence, memorandum, machine-readable records and any other documentary material, regardless of physical form or characteristics. Access of these records extends to any copy of any of those things, pertaining to that identifiable individual and including the right to audit and monitor activities that involve the process for notification and reporting of unauthorized disclosure or PII breaches.\n\n"}
{"id": "41504595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41504595", "title": "Phoebe Hart", "text": "Phoebe Hart\n\nPhoebe Hart is a film maker, lecturer and intersex rights activist, born with Androgen Insensitivity Syndrome. Hart lectures in film, television and digital media at the Queensland University of Technology, and is principal of Hartflicker, a video and film production company. She is known particularly for her autobiographical road trip movie, \"Orchids, My Intersex Adventure\".\n\nHart describes how she was told she would never menstruate nor have children, but the reasons were not discussed and the topic was taboo. When Hart was 17 years of age, her mother told her the family secret, that Hart had testes in her abdomen. Hart was pressured into a gonadectomy (sterilization), and in the documentary she faces the traumatic emotional scars from that operation and the secrecy associated with it. During the shooting of her auto-biography, her parents initially refused to be filmed.\n\nHart completed her film studies at the Queensland University of Technology (QUT) in 1995.\nShe has been involved in the children’s programme \"Totally Wild\", Network Ten’s documentary unit, and the Australian Broadcasting Corporation’s \"Race Around the World\" and \"Fly TV\".\n\nIn 2009, Hart was awarded her doctorate from Queensland University of Technology, of which \"Orchids\" was a central element of her doctoral studies. This documentary took six years for the principal documenters (sisters Phoebe and Bonnie Hart) to film, using a variety of cameras including semi-professional digital cameras, domestic VHS camcorders, and Super 8. She describes the work as a means of helping young intersex people to come to terms with their bodies:\n\nHart is also a former president of the Androgen Insensitivity Syndrome Support Group Australia.\n\n\n\n\n\nHart has received multiple awards and academic honours for the documentary \"Orchids, My Intersex Adventure\" and also academic commendation for a related thesis entitled \"Orchids: Intersex and Identity in Documentary\". She is a Robson Fellow of the Ormond College, University of Melbourne.\n\nHart and her husband desired to start a family, and adopted a child. Hart's infertility and the stress of the adoption process strained their marriage.\n\n"}
{"id": "223542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=223542", "title": "Politicide", "text": "Politicide\n\nPoliticide is the deliberate physical destruction of a group whose members share the main characteristic of belonging to a political movement. It is a type of political repression, and one means of the political cleansing of population, with another being forced migration. It may be compared to genocide or ethnic cleansing, which involve killing people based on membership in a racial or ethnic group rather than holding a political ideology.\n\nThe social scientists Barbara Harff and Ted R. Gurr uses policide to describe the killing of groups of people who are targeted not because of shared ethnic or communal traits (the types of groups covered by the CPPCG), but because of \"their hierarchical position or political opposition to the regime and dominant groups\". \n\n\n"}
{"id": "19434722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19434722", "title": "Post turtle", "text": "Post turtle\n\nPost turtle is a phrase that has been used in political discussion of various countries, including the U.S. and Canada, based on an old joke. Various politicians have been referenced by the joke or used the joke, including Bill Clinton, George W Bush, Barack Obama, and Donald Trump. \n\nAn old rancher is talking about politics with a young man from the city. He compares a politician to a \"post turtle\". The young man doesn't understand and asks him what a post turtle is.\n\nThe old man says, \"When you're driving down a country road and you see a fence post with a turtle balanced on top, that's a post turtle. You know he didn't get up there by himself. He doesn't belong there; you wonder who put him there; he can't get anything done while he's up there; and you just want to help the poor, dumb thing down.\"\n\nMary Doria Russell used the post turtle reference in her 1996 novel \"The Sparrow\", attributing it to Father D.W. Yarborough, leader of the first Earth expedition to another planet. Yarborough refers to post turtles in the context of seeming anomalies in nature and regards them as proof of the existence of God, specifically of God trying to get our attention.\n\n\"The Natural: The Misunderstood Presidency of Bill Clinton\" by Joe Klein, published in 2002, quotes Clinton as saying: \"If you see a turtle sitting on top of a fence post, it didn't get there by accident.\" According to Klein, this was Clinton's way of claiming partial responsibility for \"the historic prosperity and the global peace that attended his time in office\".\n\nMolly Ivins is attributed to usage for George W. Bush.\n\nIn 2008, Steve Benen, lead blogger for the liberal \"The Political Animal\" at \"Washington Monthly\", referred to Eric Cantor as a post turtle.\n\nAt the 2010 CMAs, Brad Paisley used the phrase in his acceptance speech for Entertainer of the Year.\n\n"}
{"id": "3285308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3285308", "title": "Pretoria Accord", "text": "Pretoria Accord\n\nThe Pretoria Accord was a July 2002 agreement made between Rwanda and the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) in an attempt to bring about an end to the Second Congo War. Rwanda agreed to the withdrawal of the estimated 20,000 Rwandan troops from the DRC in exchange for international commitment towards the disarmament of the Hutu militia \"interahamwe\" and ex-FAR fighters.\n\nThe talks were held in Pretoria, South Africa and lasted for five days.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2224857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2224857", "title": "Radicalism (historical)", "text": "Radicalism (historical)\n\nThe term \"Radical\" (from the Latin meaning root) during the late 18th-century and early 19th-century identified proponents of democratic reform, in what subsequently became the parliamentary Radical Movement.\n\nDuring the 19th century in the United Kingdom, continental Europe and Latin America, the term \"Radical\" came to denote a progressive liberal ideology. Historically, Radicalism emerged in the 1830s in the United Kingdom (see the Chartist Movement) and Belgium (see the Revolution of 1830), then in the 1840s-50s (see the Revolutions of 1848), with political support for a \"radical reform\" of the electoral system to widen the franchise. Radicalism was also associated with republicanism, abolition of titles, redistribution of property and freedom of the press.\n\nIn ninteenth-century France, Radicalism had emerged as a minor political force by the 1840s, as the extreme-left of the day (in contrast to the socially-conservative liberalism of the Moderate Republicans and Orléanists monarchists, and the anti-parliamentarism of the Legitimist monarchists and Bonapartist republicans). By the 1890s the French Radicals were not norganised under a single nationwide structure, but had become a significant political force in parliament; in 1901 they consolidated their efforts by forming the country's first major extra-parliamenatry political party, the Republican, Radical and Radical-Socialist Party, which became the most important party of government during the second half (1899 to 1940) of the Third Republic. The success of the French PRRRS encouraged Radicals elsewhere to organise themselves into formal parties in a range of other countries in the late nineteenth and early twentieth century, with Radicals holding significant political office in Switzerland, Greece, Portugal, Italy, Spain, Denmark, Sweden, the Netherlands, Germany, Ireland, Bulgaria, Romania, and Russia. During the interwar, European Radical parties organised their own international, the Radical Entente. \n\nAs social-democracy emerged as a distinct political force in its own right, the differences that once existed between left-wing radicalism and conservative-liberalism diminished, and between 1940 and 1973 Radicalism became defunct in most of its European heartlands, its role and philosophy taken on by social-democratic and conservative-liberal parties. \n\nIn some countries, Radicalism has remained only as a minor wing within the Liberal political family. Sometimes it is less doctrinaire and more moderate while other times it is more extreme. In Victorian era Britain, the Radicals were part of the Liberal coalition, but often rebelled when the more traditional Whigs in that coalition resisted democratic reforms.\n\nIn other countries, Radicalism and left-wing liberalism has enough electoral support, or a favourable electoral system or coalition partners, to maintain distinct Radical parties: Switzerland and Germany (\"Freisinn\"), Bulgaria, Denmark, Italy, Spain and the Netherlands, but also Argentina (Radical Civic Union), Chile and Paraguay.\n\nThis does not mean that all radical parties were formed by left-wing liberals. In French political literature, it is normal to make a clear separation between Radicalism as a distinct political force to the left of Liberalism. Over time, as new left-wing parties formed to address the new issues, the current right-wing of the Radicals would splinter off in disagreement with the majority's desire to cooperate with the new parties over the new social issues. Thus, various groups or individuals broke away from the main Radical family and became absorbed as the left-wing of the Liberal family - rather than the other way around, as in Britain and Belgium. \n\nHowever, the distinction between Radicals and Liberals was made clear by the two mid-20th century attempts to create an international for centrist democratic parties. In 1923-4, the French Radicals created an \"Entente Internationale des Partis Radicaux et des Partis Démocratiques similaires\": it was joined by the centre-left Radical parties of Europe, and in the democracies where no equivalent existed - Britain and Belgium - the Liberal party was allowed attend instead. After the Second World War the Radical International was not reformed; instead, a centre-right Liberal International was established, closer to the conservative-liberalism of the British and Belgian Liberal parties. This marked the end of Radicalsm as an independent political force in Europe, though some countries such as France and Switzerland retained poltically-important Radical parties well into the 1950s-1960s.\n\nThus, many European parties that are nowadays categorised in the group of social-liberal parties have a historical affinity with radicalism and may therefore be called \"liberal-radical\".\n\nAccording to \"Encyclopædia Britannica\", the first use of the word \"Radical\" in a political sense is generally ascribed to the English Whig parliamentarian Charles James Fox. In 1797, Fox declared for a \"radical reform\" of the electoral system. This led to a general use of the term to identify all supporting the movement for parliamentary reform.\n\nInitially confined to the upper and middle classes, in the early 19th century \"popular radicals\" brought artisans and the \"labouring classes\" into widespread agitation in the face of harsh government repression. More respectable \"philosophical radicals\" followed the utilitarian philosophy of Jeremy Bentham and strongly supported parliamentary reform, but were generally hostile to the arguments and tactics of the \"popular radicals\". By the middle of the century, parliamentary Radicals joined with others in the Parliament of the United Kingdom to form the Liberal Party, eventually achieving reform of the electoral system.\n\nThe Radical movement had its beginnings at a time of tension between the American colonies and Great Britain, with the first Radicals, angry at the state of the House of Commons, drawing on the Leveller tradition and similarly demanding improved parliamentary representation. These earlier concepts of democratic and even egalitarian reform had emerged in the turmoil of the English Civil War and the brief establishment of the republican Commonwealth of England amongst the vague political grouping known as the Levellers, but with the English Restoration of the monarchy such ideas had been discredited. Although the Glorious Revolution of 1688 had increased parliamentary power with a constitutional monarchy and the union of the parliaments brought England and Scotland together, towards the end of the 18th century the monarch still had considerable influence over the Parliament of Great Britain which itself was dominated by the English aristocracy and by patronage. Candidates for the House of Commons stood as Whigs or Tories, but once elected formed shifting coalitions of interests rather than splitting along party lines. At general elections, the vote was restricted to property owners in constituencies which were out of date and did not reflect the growing importance of manufacturing towns or shifts of population, so that in many rotten borough seats could be bought or were controlled by rich landowners while major cities remained unrepresented. Discontent with these inequities inspired those individuals who later became known as the \"Radical Whigs\".\n\nWilliam Beckford fostered early interest in reform in the London area. The \"Middlesex radicals\" were led by the politician John Wilkes, an opponent of war with the colonies who started his weekly publication \"The North Briton\" in 1764 and within two years had been charged with seditious libel and expelled from the House of Commons. The Society for the Defence of the Bill of Rights which he started in 1769 to support his re-election, developed the belief that every man had the right to vote and \"natural reason\" enabling him to properly judge political issues. Liberty consisted in frequent elections and for the first time middle-class radicals obtained the backing of the London \"mob\". Middlesex and Westminster were among the few parliamentary constituencies with a large and socially diverse electorate including many artisans as well as the middle class and aristocracy and along with the county association of Yorkshire led by the Reverend Christopher Wyvill were at the forefront of reform activity. The writings of what became known as the \"Radical Whigs\" had an influence on the American Revolution.\n\nMajor John Cartwright also supported the colonists, even as the American Revolutionary War began and in 1776 earned the title of the \"Father of Reform\" when he published his pamphlet \"Take Your Choice!\" advocating annual parliaments, the secret ballot and manhood suffrage. In 1780, a draft programme of reform was drawn up by Charles James Fox and Thomas Brand Hollis and put forward by a sub-committee of the electors of Westminster. This included calls for the six points later adopted in the \"People's Charter\" (see Chartists below).\n\nThe American Revolutionary War ended in humiliating defeat of a policy which King George III had fervently advocated and in March 1782 the King was forced to appoint an administration led by his opponents which sought to curb Royal patronage. In November 1783, he took his opportunity and used his influence in the House of Lords to defeat a Bill to reform the British East India Company, dismissed the government and appointed William Pitt the Younger as his Prime Minister. Pitt had previously called for Parliament to begin to reform itself, but he did not press for long for reforms the King did not like. Proposals Pitt made in April 1785 to redistribute seats from the \"rotten boroughs\" to London and the counties were defeated in the House of Commons by 248 votes to 174.\n\nIn the wake of the French Revolution of 1789, Thomas Paine wrote \"The Rights of Man\" (1791) as a response to Burke's counterrevolutionary essay \"Reflections on the Revolution in France\" (1790), itself an attack on Richard Price's sermon that kicked off the so-called \"pamphlet war\" known as the Revolution Controversy. Mary Wollstonecraft, another supporter of Price, soon followed with \"A Vindication of the Rights of Woman\". They encouraged mass support for democratic reform along with rejection of the monarchy, aristocracy and all forms of privilege. Different strands of the movement developed, with middle class \"reformers\" aiming to widen the franchise to represent commercial and industrial interests and towns without parliamentary representation, while \"Popular radicals\" drawn from the middle class and from artisans agitated to assert wider rights including relieving distress. The theoretical basis for electoral reform was provided by \"Philosophical radicals\" who followed the utilitarian philosophy of Jeremy Bentham and strongly supported parliamentary reform, but were generally hostile to the arguments and tactics of the \"popular radicals\".\n\nPopular Radicals were quick to go further than Paine, with Newcastle schoolmaster Thomas Spence demanding land nationalisation to redistribute wealth in a penny periodical he called \"Pig's Meat\" in a reference to Edmund Burke's phrase \"swinish multitude\". Radical organisations sprang up, such as the London Corresponding Society of artisans formed in January 1792 under the leadership of the shoemaker Thomas Hardy to call for the vote. One such was the Scottish \"Friends of the People\" society which in October 1793 held a British convention in Edinburgh with delegates from some of the English corresponding societies. They issued a manifesto demanding universal male suffrage with annual elections and expressing their support for the principles of the French Revolution. The numbers involved in these movements were small and most wanted reform rather than revolution, but for the first time working men were organising for political change.\n\nThe government reacted harshly, imprisoning leading Scottish radicals, temporarily suspending habeas corpus in England and passing the Seditious Meetings Act 1795 which meant that a license was needed for any meeting in a public place consisting of fifty or more people. Throughout the Napoleonic Wars, the government took extensive stern measures against feared domestic unrest. The corresponding societies ended, but some radicals continued in secret, with Irish sympathisers in particular forming secret societies to overturn the government and encourage mutinies. In 1812, Major John Cartwright formed the first Hampden Club, named after the English Civil War Parliamentary leader John Hampden, aiming to bring together middle class moderates and lower class radicals.\n\nAfter the Napoleonic Wars, the Corn laws (in force between 1815 and 1846) and bad harvests fostered discontent. The publications of William Cobbett were influential and at political meetings speakers like Henry Hunt complained that only three men in a hundred had the vote. Writers like the radicals William Hone and Thomas Jonathan Wooler spread dissent with publications such as \"The Black Dwarf\" in defiance of a series of government acts to curb circulation of political literature. Radical riots in 1816 and 1817 were followed by the Peterloo massacre of 1819 publicised by Richard Carlile, who then continued to fight for press freedom from prison. The Six Acts of 1819 limited the right to demonstrate or hold public meetings. In Scotland, agitation over three years culminated in an attempted general strike and abortive workers' uprising crushed by government troops in the \"Radical War\" of 1820. Magistrates powers were increased to crush demonstrations by manufacturers and action by radical Luddites.\n\nTo counter the established Church of England doctrine that the aristocratic social order was divinely ordained, radicals supported Lamarckian Evolutionism, a theme proclaimed by street corner agitators as well as some established scientists such as Robert Edmund Grant.\n\nEconomic conditions improved after 1821 and the United Kingdom government made economic and criminal law improvements, abandoning policies of repression. In 1823, Jeremy Bentham co-founded the \"Westminster Review\" with James Mill as a journal for \"philosophical radicals\", setting out the utilitarian philosophy that right actions were to be measured in proportion to the greatest good they achieved for the greatest number. Westminster elected two radicals to Parliament during the 1820s.\n\nThe Whigs gained power and despite defeats in the House of Commons and the House of Lords the Reform Act 1832 was put through with the support of public outcry, mass meetings of \"political unions\" and riots in some cities. This now enfranchised the middle classes, but failed to meet radical demands. The Whigs introduced reforming measures owing much to the ideas of the philosophic radicals, abolishing slavery and in 1834 introducing Malthusian Poor Law reforms which were bitterly opposed by \"popular radicals\" and writers like Thomas Carlyle. Following the 1832 Reform Act, the mainly aristocratic Whigs in the House of Commons were joined by a small number of parliamentary Radicals as well as an increased number of middle class Whigs. By 1839, they were informally being called \"the Liberal party\".\n\nFrom 1836, working class Radicals unified around the Chartist cause of electoral reform expressed in the \"People's Charter\" drawn up by six members of Parliament and six from the London Working Men's Association (associated with Owenite Utopian socialism), which called for six points: universal suffrage, equal-sized electoral districts, secret ballot, an end to property qualification for Parliament, pay for Members of Parliament and Annual Parliaments. Chartists also expressed economic grievances, but their mass demonstrations and petitions to parliament were unsuccessful.\n\nDespite initial disagreements, after their failure their cause was taken up by the middle class Anti-Corn Law League founded by Richard Cobden and John Bright in 1839 to oppose duties on imported grain which raised the price of food and so helped landowners at the expense of ordinary people.\n\nThe parliamentary Radicals joined with the Whigs and anti-protectionist Tory Peelites to form the Liberal Party by 1859. Demand for parliamentary reform increased by 1864 with agitation from John Bright and the Reform League.\n\nWhen the Liberal government led by Lord Russell and William Ewart Gladstone introduced a modest bill for parliamentary reform, it was defeated by both Tories and reform Liberals, forcing the government to resign. The Tories under Lord Derby and Benjamin Disraeli took office and the new government decided to \"dish the Whigs\" and \"take a leap in the dark\" to take the credit for the reform. As a minority government, they had to accept radical amendments and Disraeli's Reform Act 1867 almost doubled the electorate, giving the vote even to working men.\n\nThe Radicals, having been strenuous in their efforts on behalf of the working classes, earned a deeply loyal following—British trade unionists from 1874 until 1892, upon being elected to Parliament, never considered themselves to be anything other than Radicals and were labeled Lib-Lab candidates. Radical trade unionists formed the basis for what later became the Labour Party.\n\nThe territories of modern Belgium had been merged into the Kingdom of the Netherlands in 1815. Aside from various religious and socioeconomic tensions between the Dutch north and proto-Belgian south, over the 1920s a young generation of Belgians, heavily influenced by French Enlightenment ideas, had formulated criticisms of the Dutch monarchy as autocratic. The monarch enjoyed broad personal powers, his ministers were irresponsible before parliament; the separation of powers was minimal; freedom of press and association were limited; the principle of universal suffrage was undermined by the fact that theand the largely Catholic south, despite possessing two-thirds of the population, received as many seats to the Estates-General (parliament) as the smaller Protestant north; and the Dutch authorities were suspected of forcing Protestantism onto Catholics. These concerns combined to produce a pro-Catholic Radicalism distinct from both the anticlerical Radicalism of France, and the Protestant Liberalism of the Dutch north.\n\nFollowing the political crisis of 1829, where the Crown Prince was named prime minister, a limited reform was introduced establishing constitutional rights, similar to the charter of rights of France's autocratic Restoration Monrachy; the Belgian Radicals, like their French counterparts, regarded such a charter of rights as insufficient, potentially revocable by a whim of the monarch. Belgian Radicals closely followed the situation in France when, on 26 July to 1 August 1930, a conservative-liberal revolution broke out, overthrowing the autocratic monarchy for a liberal constitutional monarchy. Within a month a revolt had erupted in Brussels before spreading to the rest of the Belgian provinces. With Belgian independence eventually guaranteed by the neighbouring powers, the Constitution of 1831 was drafted: this organic law established a constitutional monarchy and parliamentary regime, and provided a list of fundamental civil rights inspired by the French Declaration of the Right of Man.\n\nAs in Britain, Radicals in Belgium continued to operate within the Liberal Party, campaigning throughout the 19th Century for the property-restricted suffrage to be extended. This was extended a first time in 1883, and universal male suffrage was achieved in 1893 (though female suffrage would have to wait until 1919). After this Radicalism was a minor political force in Belgium, its role taken over by the emergence of a powerful social-democratic party.\n\nDuring the nineteenth century, the Radicals in France were the political group of the far-left, relative to the centre-left conservative-liberal republican \"opportunists\" (Gambetta), the centre-right conservative-liberal monarchist Orléanists, the far-right monarchist Legitimists, and the supporters of a republican military dictatorship,the Bonapartists.\n\nFollowing the Napoleonic Wars and until 1848, it was technically illegal to advocate republicanism openly. Some republicans reconciled themselves to pursuing liberalism through the socially-conservative monarchy --the 'opportunists'. Those who remained intransigent in believing that the French Revolution needed to be completed through a republican regime based on parliamentary democracy and universal suffrage therefore tended to call themselves \"Radicals\" - a term meaning 'Purists'.\n\nUnder the Second Republic (1848-52), the Radicals, on a platform of seeking a \"social and democratic republic\", sat together in parliament in a group named The Mountain. When Louis-Napoléon Bonaparte launched his military coup, Radicals across France rose up in insurrection to defend the democratic republic. This experience would mark French Radicalism for the next century, prompting permanent vigilance against all those who - from Marshall Mac-Mahon to General De Gaulle - were suspected of seeking to overthrow the constitutional, parliamentary regime.\n\nAfter the return to parliamentary democracy in 1871, the Radicals emerged as a significant political force: led by Georges Clemenceau, they claimed that the socially-conservative liberal republicanism of Léon Gambetta and Jules Ferry had drifted away from the ideals of the French Revolution, and that the Radicals were the true heirs to 1791. In 1881, they put forward their programme of broad social reforms: from then on, the tactic of the main Radical Party was to have 'no enemies to the left' of the Republic, allying with any group that sought social reform while accepting the legality of the parliamentary republic. \n\nBut the Radicals were not yet a political party: they sat together in parliament out of kinship, but they possessed minimal organisation outside of parliament. The first half of the Third Republic saw several events that caused them to fear a far-right takeover of parliament that might end democracy, as Louis-Napoléon had: Mac-Mahon's self-coup in 1876, the Boulangist crisis in the 1880s, the Dreyfus Affair in the 1890s. The Radicals were swept to power in 1899 and finally managed to implement their long-standing programme of reforms, such as the separation of Church and State, or the introduction of secret ballotting. In order to ensure that their legacy would remain unreversed, they set up an extraparliamentary campaign organisation to help one-another in elections: the Radical-Socialist Party, the first major modern political party in French history.\n\nThe Radical–Socialist Party was the main governmental party of the Third Republic between 1901 and 1919, and dominated government again between 1924-26, 1932-33 and 1937-40; the centre-right governments dominated by the conservative-liberal centre-right often gave a portfolio to a Radical, who would join cabinet in a personal capacity as the most left-leaning minister.\n\nThe party itself was discredited after 1940, due to fact that many (though not all) of its parliamentarians had votedto establish the Vichy regime. Under the dictatorship several prominent Radicals, such as the young left-leaning former education minister Jean Zay, and the influential editorialist Maurice Sarraut (brother to the more famous Radical party leader Albert), were assassinated by the regime's paramilitary police, while others, notably Jean Moulin, participated in the resistance movement to restore the Republic.\n\nThe Democratic and Socialist Union of the Resistance was established after World War II to combine the politics of French Radicalism with credibility derived from members' activism in the French resistance.\n\nIn the 1950s, Pierre Mendès-France attempted to rebuilt the Radical Party as an alternative to both the Christian-democratic MRP, while also leading the opposition to Gaullism which he feared to be another attempt at a right-wing coup. During this period the Radicals frequently governed as part of a coalition of centrist parties, spanning from the Socialists to the Christian-democrats. \n\nUltimately the installation of the Fifth Republic in 1958, and the subsequent emergence of a two-party system based on the Socialist and Gaullist movements, destroyed the niche for an autonomous Radical party. The Radical Party split into various tendencies. Its leading personality, Mendès-France himself, left in 1961 in protest at the party's acceptance of De Gaulle's military coup and joining the small social-democratic Unified Socialist Party. A decade later, a second faction advocated maintaining an alliance with the Socialist-dominated coalition of the left; it broke away in 1972 to form the Radical Party of the Left, which maintains close ties to the Socialist Party. The remainder of the original Radical Party became a de facto liberal-conservative party of the centre-right: renamed as the 'Valoisien' Radical Party, it advocated alliances with the rest of the liberal centre-right, participating first in the pro-Giscard d'Estaing Union for French Democracy (1972), then with the conservative Union for a Popular Movement (2002).\n\nIn continental Europe and Latin America, as for instance in Italy, Spain, Chile and Argentina (Radical Civic Union), Radicalism developed as an ideology in the 19th century to indicate those who supported at least in theory a republican form of government, universal male suffrage and particularly, supported anti-clerical policies.\n\nIn German-speaking countries, this current is known as (literally \"free mind\") , as in German Freeminded Party from 1884 to 1893, then Eugen Richter's Freeminded People's Party; and the Free Democratic Party of Switzerland). . However, by the twentieth century at the latest radicalism, which did not advocate particularly radical economic policies, had been overtaken as the principal ideology of the left by the growing popularity of socialism and had become an essentially centrist political movement (as far as \"radicalism\" survived as a distinct political ideology at all).\n\nThe 'Free-Minded' parties, located mainly in the Netherlands, Scandinavia and German-speaking countries, included:\n\n\n\nIn Mediterranean Europe, Radical parties were often labelled 'Democratic' liberal parties:\n\nRadicalism had played a pivotal role in the birth and development of parliamentarism and the construction of the modern Serbian state leading to the Yugoslavian unification. The People's Radical Party formed in 1881 was the strongest political party and was in power in the Kingdom of Serbia more than all others together. The 1888 Constitution of the Kingdom of Serbia that defined it as an independent nation and formalised parliamentary democracy was among the most advanced in the entire world due to Radical contribution and it is known as \"The Radical Constitution\". In 1902, a crack had occurred in which the Independent Radical Party left and \"the Olde\" remained in the party, leading the original People's Radical Party to stray far from progressivism and into right-wing nationalism and conservatism. In the Kingdom of Yugoslavia, the Independent Radicals united with the rest of the Serbian opposition and the liberal and civic groups in the rest of the new country, forming the Yugoslav Democratic Party, while several Republican dissidents formed a Republican Party. The NRS had promoted Serb nationalism and put itself as the defender of Serb national interests. Democrats and Radicals were the dominant political parties, especially since the exclusion of the Communists.\n\nIn Montenegro, a People's Party was formed in 1907 as the country's first political party and remained the largest in the period of country's parliamentary history until the Yugoslavian unification. Later, a True People's Party was formed, which never got widespread popular support and whose bigger part had joined the original NS, but the difference was not ideological and instead was opposition and support of the Crown and sometimes in foreign relations to Serbia (the clubbists were the crown's dissidents and supporters of the people as well as Serbia as a regional power and brotherly ally—the rightists were generally anti-democratic and autocratic monarchist and also distrustful to the Serbian government's acts on the national plan).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7220000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7220000", "title": "Regional Security System", "text": "Regional Security System\n\nThe Regional Security System (RSS) is an international agreement for the defence and security of the eastern Caribbean region.\nThe Regional Security System was created in 1982 to counter threats to the stability of the region in the late 1970s and early 1980s. On 29 October four members of the Organisation of Eastern Caribbean States—namely, Antigua and Barbuda, Dominica, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines—signed a memorandum of understanding (MOU) with Barbados to provide for \"mutual assistance on request\". The signatories agreed to prepare contingency plans and assist one another, on request, in national emergencies, prevention of smuggling, search and rescue, immigration control, fishery protection, customs and excise control, maritime policing duties, protection of off-shore installations, pollution control, national and other disasters and threats to national security. Saint Kitts and Nevis joined following independence in 1983, and Grenada followed two years later after Operation Urgent Fury, a combined U.S. and RSS invasion of the country. The MOU was updated in 1992 and the system acquired juridical status on under the Treaty which was signed at St. Georges, Grenada.\n\nThe RSS initially started as a U.S. instrument to combat the spread of Communism in the Caribbean region. As of 2001, the RSS further cooperates with the CARICOM Regional Task Force on Crime and Security (CRTFCS).\n\nIn June 2010, United States and Caribbean regional officials resumed a plan for close cooperation established under the former Partnership for Prosperity and Security in the Caribbean (PPS) from the Clinton era. As part of the joint agreement the United States pledged assistance with the creation of an Eastern Caribbean Coast Guard unit among RSS countries. The United States Coast Guard unit will underpin the wider US-Caribbean Basin Security Initiative (CBSI) which has deemed the RSS as \"central to the CBSI’s success, given its reach across the Eastern Caribbean.\"\n\nSubsequently, Canada also pledged collaboration with the RSS bloc to combat a threat of Central American criminal gangs from expanding into the English-speaking Caribbean region.\n\nThe current member nations are:\n\nThe R.S.S., as it is commonly referred to, is based in Barbados at the Paragon Centre, headed by many regional army chiefs. It mainly serves as a defence system for the Caribbean Sea, conducting many operations by detecting and combating cross-Atlantic and intra-Caribbean drug smuggling, protection of the sovereignty of the nations of the Caribbean, providing assistance to Caribbean countries at the request of governments and are usually the first to respond after natural disasters occur, such as hurricanes, floods and earthquakes.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21605671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21605671", "title": "Richard Denniss", "text": "Richard Denniss\n\nRichard Denniss is the Chief Economist and former Executive Director of The Australia Institute. He is a prominent Australian economist, author and public policy commentator, and a former Associate Professor in the Crawford School of Public Policy at the Australian National University in Canberra, Australia. Denniss was described by Mark Kenny in the Sydney Morning Herald as \"a constant thorn in the side of politicians on both sides due to his habit of skewering dodgy economic justifications for policy\". In October 2018, The Australian Financial Review listed Denniss and Ben Oquist of The Australia Institute as equal tenth-place on their 'Covert Power' list of the most powerful people in Australia.\n\nPrior to his appointment at The Australia Institute, Denniss was Senior Strategic Advisor to Australian Greens Leader Senator Bob Brown and was also Chief of Staff to Senator Natasha Stott-Despoja, former Leader of the Australian Democrats. Denniss also worked as a researcher at the H.V. Evatt Memorial Foundation (the 'Evatt Foundation'), a public policy organisation with strong links to the Australian Labor Party. His academic work has resulted in publications in various peer-reviewed journals, and he has lectured in Economics at the University of Newcastle.\n\nDuring the 2000s Denniss' research focused on climate change policy and tax policy. He also worked on a number of projects aimed at improving the measurement of government and economic performance including the 'Genuine Progress Indicator' (GPI), the 'Wellbeing Manifesto', and the state of Australian Government.\n\n666 ABC Canberra produced and broadcast \"An occasional series with 'The Moral Economist'\" podcast starring Richard Denniss, in 2013. The series discussed economic issues from the dollar cost of a human life to preventative health care to who deserves welfare.\n\nIn 2015 Denniss delivered the 16th Manning Clark Lecture at The Australian National University. The speech drew from Clark's writings, identifying 'enlargers' and 'punishers' in Australian cultural, economic and political history.\n\nAustralian Labor Party MP Andrew Leigh is quoted as saying, \"I think of Richard as being kind of a mirror image of [free-market economist and former Reserve Bank board member] Warwick McKibbin.\"\n\nDenniss is the co-author (with Clive Hamilton) of best-selling book \"\" and \"An introduction to Australian Public Policy\" (with Sarah Maddison). He co-authored Minority policy: rethinking governance when parliament matters with Brenton Prosser, a book that examines the operations of minority government and implications for public policy in Westminster systems. In 2016, his book \"Econobabble\" was published by Black Inc and Redback. Most recently, Denniss has published Curing Affluenza, a followup to Affluenza: When too Much is Never Enough, and is the author of the June 2018 Quarterly Essay, Dead Right: How Neoliberalism Ate Itself and What Comes Next.\n\nDenniss is a regular contributor to The Monthly and Quarterly Essay, as well as producing columns in The Canberra Times and The Australian Financial Review.\n\n"}
{"id": "7473998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7473998", "title": "Scottish Youth Parliament", "text": "Scottish Youth Parliament\n\nThe Scottish Youth Parliament (SYP) is a politically-independent organisation that aims to represent the young people of Scotland.\n\nThe SYP is made up of around 150 young people aged from 14–25 across Scotland. Representatives are known as Members of the Scottish Youth Parliament (MSYPs). Every constituency area can elect two MSYPs to represent the views and opinions of young people. In addition some MSYPs also attend representing Voluntary Organisations. The SYP meets three times a year.\n\nThe SYP campaign on various issues that affect Scotland's young people. The Youth Parliament has been an advocate for Votes at 16 since its inception in 1999 and has campaigned for it ever since. Notably ensuring that Young People could vote aged 16 and 17 in the Referendum on Scottish Independence. The Scottish Youth Parliament have campaigned on a range of issues from their campaign on Equal Marriage – LoveEqually to their Young Carers Campaign – Care. Fair. Share. The Scottish Youth Parliament's current campaign is \"Right Here, Right Now\", which focuses on the rights of young people, and was chosen at the 63rd SYP sitting in June 2017 by MSYPs in Vale of Leven, West Dunbartonshire. MSYPs voted in June 2018 by MSYPs at their sitting in Stranraer, Dumfries and Galloway for their next campaign to be about public transport.\n\nThe Scottish Youth Parliament was launched on 30 June 1999 at Murrayfield Stadium in Edinburgh, one day before the first meeting of the Scottish Parliament.\n\nThe group has previously held meetings in the General Assembly Rooms (former temporary home of the Scottish Parliament) in Edinburgh and also within the new Scottish Parliament building.\n\nThe Scottish Youth Parliament works with many other organisations, including Scottish Government, Oxfam Scotland, CIVICUS, Scottish Local Authorities, UK Youth Parliament, Funky Dragon, Northern Ireland Youth Forum, Scotland's Commissioner for Children and Young People, YouthLink Scotland, Highland Youth Voice, and the British Youth Council.\n\n"}
{"id": "3389001", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3389001", "title": "Seven Stories Press", "text": "Seven Stories Press\n\nSeven Stories Press is an independent American publishing company. Centered in New York City, the company was founded by editor Dan Simon in 1995, after establishing Four Walls Eight Windows with John Oakes. The company was named for its seven founding authors: Annie Ernaux, Gary Null, the estate of Nelson Algren, Project Censored, Octavia E. Butler, Charley Rosen, and Vassilis Vassilikos, all of whom have continued to publish with Seven Stories.\n\nSeven Stories Press states that they \"publish works of the imagination and political titles by voices of conscience.\" Seven Stories also publishes a wide range of literature, National Book Award–winning poetry collections, and translations in prose and poetry from French, Spanish, German, Swedish, Italian, Greek, Polish, Korean, Vietnamese, Russian, and Arabic.\n\nSeven Stories believes publishers have a special responsibility to defend free speech and human rights. On several notable occasions, Seven Stories has stepped in to publish important books that were being refused the right to publish for political reasons, including \"Dark Alliance\" by Pulitzer Prize–winning journalist Gary Webb, \"Citizen Newhouse\" by Carol Felsenthal, \"The Others\" by pseudonymous Saudi Arabian lesbian author Seba al-Herz, and \"All Things Censored\" by distinguished journalist and death row inmate Mumia Abu-Jamal.\n\nSeven Stories is an active publisher of works of literature in translation, including \"The Few Things I Know About Glafkos Thrassakis\" by Vassilis Vassilikos, \"The Old Garden\" by Hwang Sok-yong and Jean Giono’s \"The Solitude of Compassion\". Seven Stories has introduced new translations of underappreciated classics like Ivan Goncharov’s \"Oblomov\", while also seeking works by emerging international voices, like Céline Curiol's \"Voice Over\", Johan Harstad’s \"Buzz Aldrin, What Happened To You in All The Confusion?\" and Andri Snær Magnason's \"LoveStar\" and \"The Story of the Blue Planet\". Recent translations include \"Operation Massacre\" by Rodolfo Walsh and \"The Body Where I Was Born\" by Guadalupe Nettel.\n\nLaunched in 2000, Seven Stories’ Spanish-language imprint, Siete Cuentos Editorial, represents an effort to introduce a selection English-language texts to Spanish-language readers. Siete Cuentos has published Spanish-language editions of \"Our Bodies, Ourselves\" (\"Nuestros cuerpos, nuestras vidas\") and Howard Zinn’s \"A People’s History of the United States\" (\"La otra historia de los Estados Unidos\".) Siete Cuentos has published new and classic works of literature by Ariel Dorfman, including \"Death and the Maiden\" (\"La muerte y la doncella\") and \"Heading South, Looking North\" (\"Rumbo al sur, deseando el norte\"), as well as fiction by Ángela Vallvey and Sonia Rivera-Valdés. Recent Spanish translations include Charles C. Mann's 1491 (\"Una nueva historia de la Americas antes de Colon\").\n\nThe new imprint from Seven Stories Press was launched in 2012 and combines social justice and good storytelling to a reading audience of young adults and children. Triangle Square supports the struggle for social justice and restoration of the environment, kid's rights, and freedom of the imagination. Triangle Square titles include \"The Story of the Blue Planet\" by Andri Snær Magnason, \"Trevor\" by James Lecesne, 'Do You Dream in Color?\" by Laurie Rubin, \"A Young People’s History of the United States\" by Howard Zinn, adapted by Rebecca Stefoff, and \"A Different Mirror for Young People: A History of Multicultural America\" by Ronald Takaki, adapted by Rebecca Stefoff. Titles include \"What Makes A Baby\" and \"Sex is a Funny Word\" by Cory Silverberg, \"A is for Activist\" and \"Counting on Community\" by Innosanto Nagara, and \"The Third Chimpanzee for Young People\" by Jared Diamond, adapted by Rebecca Stefoff.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n2001 — Firecracker Alternative Book Award for Independent Press of the Year\n\n"}
{"id": "36913292", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36913292", "title": "The War We Never Fought", "text": "The War We Never Fought\n\nThe War We Never Fought: The British Establishment's Surrender to Drugs is the sixth book by the British author and \"Mail on Sunday\" columnist Peter Hitchens, first published in 2012.\n\nThe book is intended as a rebuttal of what Hitchens sees as the widespread acceptance of drug use and the weakening of drug prohibition in Britain since the Misuse of Drugs Act 1971, when a Conservative government adopted a Labour Party policy to implement the Wootton Report. Hitchens believes that there is de facto decriminalisation of drugs in the UK, especially of cannabis, contrary to claims of drug \"prohibition\" from \"Big Dope\" (name he gives to the cannabis legalisation lobby). Hitchens contends that it is only through much harsher and more stringent punishment – for both consumers and dealers of drugs – that any war on drugs can be successful.\n\nHitchens first announced \"The War We Never Fought\"'s publication in 2011, and stated that the book would examine \"the secret surrender of the British establishment to the cannabis lobby in the late 1960s, and the results of this surrender\".\n\nBefore the book's publication, Hitchens had often advocated in his writing a society governed by conscience and the rule of law, which he sees as the best guarantee of liberty, and he had also frequently and at length voiced opposition to the decriminalisation of recreational drugs (arguing that the legal prohibition of drug use is an essential counterweight to \"pro-drug propaganda\") and had debated a number of figures who are for such decriminalisation, including Christopher Snowdon of the Institute of Economic Affairs, and Howard Marks. He has also debated the topic of drugs with the comedian Russell Brand.\n\nHitchens had claimed attempts to combat drug use by restricting supply and prosecuting drug dealers were futile, unless possession and use were also punished. In April 2012, he gave evidence to the Parliamentary Home Affairs Select Committee as part of its inquiry into drugs policy and called for the British government to introduce a more hardline policy on drugs.\n\nThe cover image is an obvious take on the album cover for \"Sgt. Pepper's Lonely Hearts Club Band\".\n\nA month before \"The War We Never Fought\"'s publication, Ed West in \"The Daily Telegraph\" said that the book had provoked criticism not only from the Left, but also from the free-market libertarian Right,\n\nIn \"Prospect\" magazine, Peter Lilley wrote that Hitchens \"realises there are only two logically coherent policies: prohibition and legalisation. Decriminalisation, the fashionable option of the intelligentsia, makes no sense, though it is the destination which policy in this country has moved towards for several decades\" and \"the most refreshing aspect of this book is its recognition that drug taking is fundamentally a moral issue\". A largely positive review by William Dove in the \"International Business Times\" stated that, \"Hitchens makes a convincing case that the anti-drug laws are not unenforceable as legalisers might claim, but unenforced\".\n\nIn a very critical review in \"The Observer\", Nicholas Lezard stated that the book \"should never have been published\",\nwhile Jonathan Rée in \"The Guardian\" dismissed the book as \"hysterical\" and accused its author of \"moral racism\".\n\nChris Mullin, writing in the \"Mail on Sunday\", praised much of the book, describing it as a \"magnificent – and well-researched – rant against Establishment 'appeasers', who, he [Hitchens] believes, have opened the door to perdition.\" Mullin however took issue with the solutions to the problem Hitchens prescribes in the book.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20137448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20137448", "title": "Timeline of the 2012 United States presidential election", "text": "Timeline of the 2012 United States presidential election\n\nThe following is a timeline of major events leading up to the United States presidential election of 2012. The election was the 57th quadrennial United States presidential election and was held on November 6, 2012.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nCandidate announcement and, if applicable, withdrawal dates are as follows:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11005471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11005471", "title": "Town supervisor", "text": "Town supervisor\n\nTown supervisor is an elective legislative position in New York towns. Supervisors sit on the town board, where they preside over town board meetings and vote on all matters with no more legal weight than that of any other board member (no tie-breaking or veto powers).\nTowns may adopt local laws that allow them to provide for an executive branch, an action authorized by the New York State Legislature. As such, some supervisors have additional authority or executive powers, whereas some towns have town managers or chief executive officers who serve as the executive branch, leaving the supervisor to his or her traditional role in the legislative branch.\n\nIn most towns the supervisor is considered a full-time position, although many supervisors also have other jobs concurrently, while the service on the town board is considered part-time work.\n"}
{"id": "3311663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3311663", "title": "Translation Centre for the Bodies of the European Union", "text": "Translation Centre for the Bodies of the European Union\n\nThe Translation Centre for the Bodies of the European Union (CdT) is an EU agency based in Luxembourg. Its primary role is to cater for the diverse multilingual communication needs of the EU agencies and other EU bodies. In addition, it may be called upon by the EU institutions to absorb any surplus work they may have.\n\nThe Centre also contributes to interinstitutional cooperation between the EU’s various translation services with the aim of promoting the use of EU terminology and the sharing of best practices and tools in the language field.\n\nThe Centre provides services in the 24 official EU languages and in various non-EU languages, involving over 700 language combinations in total.\n\nThe Centre has a two-fold mission. The first one is to provide language services to the decentralised EU bodies (mainly EU agencies), as well as to the EU institutions whenever necessary, on the basis of a cooperation agreement signed with each client. The Centre’s second mission is to contribute to interinstitutional cooperation between the EU’s various translation services with the aim of rationalising working methods and harmonising procedures.\n\nAs part of its second mission, the Centre manages IATE, the largest terminology database in the world, on behalf of the EU institutions. \n\nThe Regulation (Council Regulation (EC) No 2965/94) establishing the Centre was adopted by the Council of the European Union in November 1994. It was revised on two occasions: firstly, in 1995 (Council Regulation (EC) No 2610/95), to extend the Centre’s activities to those institutions and bodies that have a translation service and to strengthen interinstitutional cooperation in the field of translation; and, secondly, in 2003 (Council Regulation (EC) No 1645/2003), to bring certain provisions into line with the Council Regulation on the Financial Regulation applicable to the general budget of the European Communities.\n\nThe Centre is governed by a Management Board with representatives from the Member States, its clients and two representatives from the European Commission. The Chairman of the Management Board is Rytis Martikonis, Director-General of the Directorate-General for Translation of the European Commission.\n\nThe Centre’s legal representative is the Director, Máire Killoran, who is responsible for its day-to-day administration and who reports to the Centre’s Management Board.\n\nThe Translation Centre is a member of the EU Agencies Network. The EU Agencies were set up by the EU Member States and the EU institutions to provide services to industries and citizens and carry out specific legal, technical or scientific tasks under EU law. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54630057", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54630057", "title": "V-Partei3", "text": "V-Partei3\n\nV-Partei3, known officially as V-Partei³ – Party for Change, Vegetarians and Vegans () is a German political party that started in April 2016. The principal focus of the party is animal rights and environmentalism. It is the sole political party in Germany devoted to encouraging the adoption of a plant-based diet. The party took part in the North Rhine-Westphalia state elections in 2017, and received 10,013 votes or 0.12% of the vote, far below the 5% threshold required to enter the State Landtag. Notable members of the party are actress Barbara Rütting and Axel Ritt, guitarist of the band Grave Digger, who joined in May 2017.\n\nIn the party manifesto created for the 2017 Bundestag elections focuses on improving animal welfare conditions in Germany and changing existing government policies so that Germany reduces its consumption of meat. The manifesto focuses on 10 key areas, and some are noted below.\n\nThe party opposes the testing of animals and as such, wants to end the practice entirely. The platform instead advocates for cruelty-free medical research, which includes the use of human simulation.\n\nThe party supports projects that increase the use of bicycles as an eco-friendly way of travelling. V-Partei³ also want to introduce speed limits on roads in an attempt to reduce air pollution. Their manifesto advocates a 130 km/h speed limit on highways and general speed limits elsewhere.\n\nThe party want to see an end to nuclear power, a reduction in the number of coal-fired and biogas power plants and greater subsidies for renewable energy, with the aim of reaching 100% renewable in the next few decades.\n\nThe V-Partei³ opposes any genetic engineering in agriculture. The party opposes TTIP, which they say softens labour rights and causes climate destruction. They advocated a basic income on the following grounds:\n\n"}
{"id": "352265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=352265", "title": "V sign", "text": "V sign\n\nThe V sign is a hand gesture in which the index and middle fingers are raised and parted, while the other fingers are clenched. It has various meanings, depending on the cultural context and how it is presented.\n\nWhen displayed with the palm inward toward the signer, it has long been an offensive gesture in some Commonwealth nations. In the 1940s, during the Second World War, a campaign by the Western Allies to use the sign with the back of the hand toward the signer ( in Unicode) as a \"V for Victory\" sign proved quite effective. During the Vietnam War, in the 1960s, the \"V sign\" was widely adopted by the counterculture as a symbol of peace. Shortly thereafter, it also became adopted as a gesture used in photographs, especially in Japan.\n\nThe meaning of the V sign is partially dependent on the manner in which the hand is positioned:\n\nThe insulting version of the gesture (with the palm inward ) is often compared to the offensive gesture known as \"the finger\". The \"two-fingered salute\" (also \"the forks\" in Australia) is commonly performed by flicking the V upwards from wrist or elbow. The V sign, when the palm is facing toward the person giving the sign, has long been an insulting gesture in England, and later in the rest of the United Kingdom, Ireland, Australia, India, Pakistan and New Zealand. It is frequently used to signify defiance (especially to authority), contempt, or derision.\n\nAs an example of the V sign (palm inward) as an insult, on November 1, 1990, \"The Sun\", a British tabloid, ran an article on its front page with the headline \"Up Yours, Delors\" next to a large hand making a V sign protruding from a Union Jack cuff. \"The Sun\" urged its readers to stick two fingers up at then President of the European Commission, Jacques Delors, who had advocated an EU central government. The article attracted a number of complaints about its alleged racism, but the now defunct Press Council rejected the complaints after the editor of \"The Sun\" stated that the paper reserved the right to use vulgar abuse in the interests of Britain.\n\nOn April 3, 2009, Scottish football players Barry Ferguson and Allan McGregor were permanently banned from the Scottish national squad for showing the V sign while sitting on the bench during the game against Iceland. Both players were in their hotel bar drinking alcohol after the Scottish defeat to The Netherlands until around 11 am the next morning, meaning that both of the players breached the SFA discipline code before the incident as well, but the attitude shown by the V sign was considered to be so rude that the SFA decided never to include these players in the national line-up again. Ferguson also lost the captaincy of Rangers as a result of the controversy. McGregor's ban was lifted by then SFA manager Craig Levein and he returned to Scotland national squad in 2010.\n\nSteve McQueen gives the sign in the closing scene of the 1971 motorsport movie, \"Le Mans\". A still picture of the gesture was recorded by photographer Nigel Snowdon and has become an icon of both McQueen and the film itself. The gesture was also flashed by Spike (played by James Marsters) in \"Hush\", a Season 4 episode of \"Buffy the Vampire Slayer\". The scene was also featured in the series' opening credits for all of Season 5. It was censored by BBC Two only in its early-evening showings of the program.\n\nFor a time in the UK, \"a Harvey (Smith)\" became a way of describing the insulting version of the V sign, much as \"the word of Cambronne\" is used in France, or \"the Trudeau salute\" is used to describe the one-fingered salute in Canada. This happened because, in 1971, show-jumper Harvey Smith was disqualified for making a televised V sign to the judges after winning the British Show Jumping Derby at Hickstead. His win was reinstated two days later. Harvey Smith pleaded that he was using a Victory sign, a defence also used by other figures in the public eye. \n\nSometimes foreigners visiting the countries mentioned above use the \"two-fingered salute\" without knowing it is offensive to the natives, for example when ordering two beers in a noisy pub, or in the case of the United States president George H. W. Bush, who, while touring Australia in 1992, attempted to give a \"peace sign\" to a group of farmers in Canberra—who were protesting about U.S. farm subsidies—and instead gave the insulting V sign.\n\nA commonly repeated legend claims that the two-fingered salute or V sign derives from a gesture made by longbowmen fighting in the English and Welsh archers at the Battle of Agincourt (1415) during the Hundred Years' War, but no historical primary sources support this contention. This origin legend states that archers who were captured by the French had their index and middle fingers cut off so that they could no longer operate their longbows, and that the V sign was used by uncaptured and victorious archers in a display of defiance against the enemy. However, it was common practice in warfare of that period to summarily execute common soldiers, since they held no ransom value.\n\nAlternatively, there is evidence against this interpretation as the chronicler Jean de Wavrin, contemporary of the battle of Agincourt, reports that the captured archers would have three fingers cut, and not two. Wielding an English longbow requires three fingers, as is the case for modern bows.\n\nThe first unambiguous evidence of the use of the insulting V sign in the United Kingdom dates to 1901, when a worker outside Parkgate ironworks in Rotherham used the gesture (captured on the film) to indicate that he did not like being filmed. Peter Opie interviewed children in the 1950s and observed in \"The Lore and Language of Schoolchildren\" that the much-older thumbing of the nose (cocking a snook) had been replaced by the V sign as the most common insulting gesture used in the playground.\n\nBetween 1975 and 1977 a group of anthropologists including Desmond Morris studied the history and spread of European gestures and found the rude version of the V-sign to be basically unknown outside the British Isles. In his \"Gestures: Their Origins and Distribution\", published in 1979, Morris discussed various possible origins of this sign but came to no definite conclusion:\n\nOn 14 January 1941, Victor de Laveleye, former Belgian Minister of Justice and director of the Belgian French-language broadcasts on the BBC (1940–44), suggested in a broadcast that Belgians use a V for ' (French: “victory”) and ' (Dutch: \"freedom\") as a rallying emblem during the Second World War. \n\nIn the BBC broadcast, de Laveleye said that \"the occupier, by seeing this sign, always the same, infinitely repeated, [would] understand that he is surrounded, encircled by an immense crowd of citizens eagerly awaiting his first moment of weakness, watching for his first failure.\" Within weeks chalked up Vs began appearing on walls throughout Belgium, the Netherlands and Northern France.\n\nBuoyed by this success, the BBC started the \"V for Victory\" campaign, for which they put in charge the assistant news editor Douglas Ritchie posing as “Colonel Britton”. Ritchie suggested an audible V using its Morse code rhythm (three dots and a dash). As the rousing opening bars of Beethoven's Fifth Symphony had the same rhythm, the BBC used this as its call-sign in its foreign language programmes to occupied Europe for the rest of the war. The more musically educated also understood that it was the Fate motif \"knocking on the door\" of the Third Reich.\n(). The BBC also encouraged the use of the V gesture introduced by de Laveleye.\n\nBy July 1941, the emblematic use of the letter V had spread through occupied Europe. On 19 July, Prime Minister Winston Churchill referred approvingly to the V for Victory campaign in a speech, from which point he started using the V hand sign. Early on he sometimes gestured palm in (sometimes with a cigar between the fingers). Later in the war, he used palm out. After aides explained to the aristocratic Churchill what the palm in gesture meant to other classes, he made sure to use the appropriate sign. Yet the \"double-entendre\" of the gesture might have contributed to its popularity, \"for a simple twist of hand would have presented the dorsal side in a mocking snub to the common enemy\". Other allied leaders used the sign as well.\n\nThe Germans could not remove all the signs, so adopted the V Sign as a German symbol, sometimes adding laurel leaves under it, painting their own V's on walls, vehicles and adding a massive V on the Eiffel Tower.\n\nIn 1942, Aleister Crowley, a British occultist, claimed to have invented the usage of a V-sign in February 1941 as a magical foil to the Nazis' use of the Swastika. He maintained that he passed this to friends at the BBC, and to the British Naval Intelligence Division through his connections in MI5, eventually gaining the approval of Winston Churchill. Crowley noted that his 1913 publication \"Magick (Book 4)\" featured a V-sign and a swastika on the same plate.\n\nU.S. President Richard Nixon used the gesture to signal victory in the Vietnam War, an act which became one of his best-known trademarks. He also used it on his departure from public office following his resignation in 1974.\n\nProtesters against the Vietnam War (and subsequent anti-war protests) and counterculture activists adopted the gesture as a sign of peace. Because the hippies of the day often flashed this sign (palm out) while saying \"Peace\", it became popularly known (through association) as \"the peace sign\".\n\nThe V sign, primarily palm-outward, is very commonly made by Japanese people, especially younger people, when posing for informal photographs, and is known as , or more commonly simply . As the name reflects, this dates to the Vietnam War era and anti-war activists, though the precise origin is disputed. The V sign was known in Japan from the post-World War II Allied occupation of Japan, but did not acquire the use in photographs until later.\n\nIn Japan, it is generally believed to have been influenced by Beheiren's anti-Vietnam War activists in the late 1960s and a Konica camera advertisement in 1971. A more colorful account of this practice claims it was influenced by the American figure skater Janet Lynn during the 1972 Winter Olympics in Sapporo, Hokkaidō. She fell during a free-skate period, but continued to smile even as she sat on the ice. Though she placed third in the competition, her cheerful diligence and persistence resonated with many Japanese viewers. Lynn became an overnight foreign celebrity in Japan. A peace activist, Lynn frequently flashed the V sign when she was covered in Japanese media, and she is credited by some Japanese for having popularized its use since the 1970s in amateur photographs.\n\nIn Mainland China, Hong Kong, South Korea, and Taiwan, the V sign is a popular pose in photographs. It is used in both casual and formal settings. For the most part in these countries, the gesture is divorced from its previous meanings as a peace sign or as an insult; for most the meaning of the sign is \"victory\" or \"yeah\", implying a feeling of happiness. It is used in both directions (palm facing the signer and palm facing forward). In certain contexts the sign simply means \"two\", such as when ordering or boarding a bus.\n\nThe pose is gaining significant popularity in South Korea due to the common usage amongst Kpop idols and young people – especially in selfies. V signing is commonly linked with aegyo, a popular trend in Korea meaning \"acting cutely\".\n\nIn the United States, the usage of the V sign as a photography gesture is known but not widely used. The original poster for the 2003 film \"What a Girl Wants\" showed star Amanda Bynes giving a V sign as an American girl visiting London. In the US, the poster was altered to instead show Bynes with both arms down, to avoid giving the perception that the film was criticizing the then-recently commenced Iraq War.\n\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "17327865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17327865", "title": "Vice President of Russia", "text": "Vice President of Russia\n\nThe Vice President of the Russian Federation (before 25 December 1991 - Vice President of the Russian SFSR) was the first in the presidential line of succession, becoming the new President of Russia upon the death, resignation, or removal of the president. Additionally, the vice president would assume the presidential duties in case the president becomes incapable of carrying out the presidential duties.\n\nAccording to the article 121-2 of the , a citizen of Russia, no younger than 35 years old and no older than 65 years old, who is in possession of suffrage, may be elected vice president. The vice president shall not be people's deputy, or hold any other offices in state or public bodies as well as in businesses.\n\nThe vice president was elected simultaneously with the president. A candidate for vice president was nominated by a candidate for president.\n\nThe vice president executed individual assignments on a commission of the president and acted for the president in his absence or in case when it would be impossible for the president to attend to his duties.\n\nFollowing 1993 Russian constitutional crisis the office was abolished. The position of the Prime Minister of Russia became the second-highest ranking public office, and in the event of the president's incapacitation, death or resignation, the prime minister would assume the presidential powers and duties as acting president. This was evidenced in the succession of then-prime minister Vladimir Putin to the presidential powers and duties after the resignation of Boris Yeltsin, due to illness, on December 31, 1999.\n\n"}
{"id": "26467786", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26467786", "title": "World Day of Social Justice", "text": "World Day of Social Justice\n\nSocial Equality Justice day is a day recognizing the need to promote efforts to tackle issues such as poverty, exclusion and unemployment. Many organizations, including the UN, American Library Association (ALA) , and the International Labour Office, make statements on the importance of social justice for people. Many organizations also present plans for greater social justice by tackling poverty, social and economic exclusion and unemployment. The United Nations General Assembly has decided to observe 20 February annually, approved on 26 November 2007 and starting in 2009, as the World Day of Social Justice.\n\nThe Declaration focuses on guaranteeing fair outcomes for all through employment, social protection, social dialogue, and fundamental principles and rights.\n\nTopics ideal for teaching students including childhood poverty, global citizenship, human rights and sustainable development with a series of lessons available by country with the United Nations and other programs. Oxfam's food for thought power point which shows students the global food system that then has the opportunity for students to share their thoughts and experiences. The lesson plans and collections available are for students of all ages.\n\n"}
{"id": "30004632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30004632", "title": "Yun Chi-wang", "text": "Yun Chi-wang\n\nGeneral Yun Chi-wang (윤치왕, 尹致旺) (February 17 1895 – December 21 1982) was a South Korean politician, soldier and gynecologist. He was the half brother of Yun Chi-ho, uncle of Yun Poson (who was the fourth president of South Korea), and cousin of Yun Chi-Young. His nickname was Nampho (남포, 南圃), and his courtesy name was Sungun (성운, 聖雲). \nYun Chi-wang's father was Yun Ung-nyeol (1840–1911); his mother was Kim Jung-soon (1876–1959), his father's concubine. He had a half-brother Yun Chi-ho (1865–1945), some thirty years his elder, whose mother was their father's wife, Lee Jung-Mu (1844~1936).\nIn 1911, he entered Suwan Agricultural High School, but in 1912 he dropped out, and in 1913 went to participate in independent activities in China. In 1914, on Kim Kyu-sik's advice, he went to study at the University of Glasgow.\nFrom 1927 to 1944 he worked at Severance Hospital in his homeland, and in 1938 became its second Director. He was also Chairman of Korea's Maternity Society.\nIn 1948 he enlisted in the South Korean Army as a medical officer with the rank of lieutenant colonel. In 1950, he participated in the Korean War. In March 1959 he retired with the rank of lieutenant general, and took full retirement in 1960.\n\n\n"}
