{"id": "20673339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20673339", "title": "Airways (magazine)", "text": "Airways (magazine)\n\nAirways is distributed through news stands in North America and 35 nations worldwide, reaching subscribers in more than 60 countries. Located at America’s commercial aviation epicenter, Airways International, Inc. has moved its headquarters just south of Miami International Airport.\n\nThe magazine was launched in 1994. After two decades of publication under the tenure of its founder and former Editor in Chief, John Wegg, Airways International, Inc. was sold to Enrique Perrella's group, Contact Airways International, Inc., in March, 2014. In 2016, \"Airways\" introduced a new website and look for the digital and print publication. The magazine’s publisher and Editor in Chief is Enrique Perrella. The staff is listed on the new website \n\nReaching its 20th anniversary with the March 2014 issue, \"Airways\" is devoted to the airline world, including operators, aircraft, technology, manufacturers, airports and destinations, people, and airways.\n\n"}
{"id": "5988731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5988731", "title": "American Advertising Federation Hall of Fame", "text": "American Advertising Federation Hall of Fame\n\nThe Advertising Hall of Fame, operated by the American Advertising Federation (AAF), began in 1948 as a result of a proposal by the New York Ad Club and its president, Andrew Haire, to the Advertising Federation of America, the predecessor organization to the American Advertising Federation. The plan provided that the Advertising Hall of Fame be administered by the Advertising Federation of America on behalf of the entire advertising industry. It honors those men and women who have best served the cause of advertising. Since then, 191 extraordinary individuals have been elected to this illustrious group.\n\nThe council of judges and its executive committee are appointed each year by the president of the American Advertising Federation and chair of the Advertising Hall of Fame. These distinguished industry executives are chosen from the ranks of advertisers, agencies, media organizations and academic institutions in the United States. The council of judges considers the election of either living or deceased persons whose record of advertising and service must be accomplished in the United States or with an American company abroad. To be eligible, individuals must be retired from their primary careers.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38297142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38297142", "title": "Angela Bennett", "text": "Angela Bennett\n\nAngela Bennett (born \"circa\" 1945) is an Australian mining heiress and businesswoman.\n\nHer late father, Peter Wright, co-founded Wright Prospecting. Her late brother was Michael Wright (1937-2012), the owner of the Voyager Estate winery in Margaret River.\n\nShe heads Wright Prospecting. In 2010, she and her brother received 1 billion from Gina Rinehart after she was legally forced to give up twenty-five per cent in the Rhodes Ridges iron ore mine 60 km west of Newman in the Pilbara. She owns fifteen per cent of Hamersley Iron shares from the Rio Tinto Group, Gina Rinehart owning the other fifty per cent. In September 2012, she sued Rinehart to recover fifty per cent of 4, 5 and 6 tenements of the Hope Downs mine, named after Gina Rinehart's late mother, Hope Hancock.\n\nShe is married, and has seven children. She is the second richest woman in Australia, after Gina Rinehart. In 2014, the \"Business Review Weekly\" assessed Bennett's net worth at 1.55 billion. In September 2009, she sold her mansion in the Mosman Park neighbourhood of Perth for 57.5 million and downsized to a 8 million apartment in Fremantle. In 2010, she sold her 20 million yacht.\n\nHer son, Todd Bennett, was appointed to the Board of Directors of Apex Mineral in 2008, but he no longer sits on it as of 2012. He also sat on the Board of the Finance and Energy Exchange.\n"}
{"id": "56910813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56910813", "title": "Archives management", "text": "Archives management\n\nArchives management is the area of management concerned with the maintenance and use of archives. It is concerned with acquisition, care, arrangement, description and retrieval of records once they have been transferred from an organisation to the archival repository. Once records have been selected and transferred to archival custody, they become archives.\n\nThe steps involved in managing archives include acquiring and receiving from the office of the origin, arranging and describing according to archival principles and practices, providing easy retrieval and access to archives. \n\nAn increasingly relevant aspect of archives management is ensuring the accessibility of archives and archive materials to all users regardless of physical ability. Most archivist and library associations now include resources on educating archivists on how to manage their archives to be more accessible. Both archivists and special collections librarians are faced with the issue of making their resources more accessible to the public, as their items were created prior to the consideration of accessibility.\n"}
{"id": "38960658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38960658", "title": "Asiatown, Cleveland", "text": "Asiatown, Cleveland\n\nAsiatown, also spelled AsiaTown and formerly known as Chinatown, is a Chinatown located in Cleveland, Ohio, in the United States. Chinese people, brought to the country as railroad workers, established the area in the 1860s. The area became known as Chinatown in the 1920s, and was then centered at Rockwell Avenue and E. 22nd Street. Large numbers of non-Chinese people from Asia settled in the area in the 1960s and 1970s, leading to the enclave's expansion eastward. The expanded enclave was named Asiatown in 2006, with that portion on Rockwell Avenue often being referred to as \"Old Chinatown\" or \"Historic Chinatown\".\n\nAsiatown straddles the boundary between the Downtown Cleveland and Goodrich–Kirtland Park neighborhoods.\n\nCleveland's first Asian residents were Chinese, who came to the United States to work on the railroads. These individuals came to Cleveland to escape the racism and anti-Chinese sentiments of white people on the West Coast. Their numbers were initially small, and numbered only 23 in 1880. By 1900, the number had risen to 96. Initially, these Chinese settled on Ontario Street between Lakeside and St. Clair Avenues, north of Public Square, and the enclave consisted of small retail shops like clothing stores, grocery stores, laundries, and restaurants. By the 1890s, however, the enclave was dissolving, with Chinese-run shops scattered throughout the downtown area.\n\nRapid development of Cleveland's downtown, particularly the Terminal Tower complex (which began construction in 1926), displaced these residents and shops and drove them eastward. By the end of the 1920s, a much larger and more permanent enclave had formed around the intersection of Rockwell Avenue and E. 22nd Street and the name \"Chinatown\" began to be used in the 1920s to describe the area.\n\nCleveland's Chinatown was largely confined to Rockwell Avenue between E. 21st and E. 24th Streets. On Leong Tong, a merchant association, which had begun construction on its new building at 2138-2136 Rockwell Avenue in 1926, formally opened its retail, office, and residential space on January 4, 1931. This two-story structure contained ground-floor retail and restaurant space and second-story office and residential units. The enclave thrived in the 1930s, as popular and now-locally famous restaurants like Shanghai Restaurant (which opened in 1931), Red Dragon Café (which opened in 1932), and Golden Gate (which opened in 1933) drew large numbers of white Americans. Dishes such as chow mein and chop suey, which had taste and texture similar to Western European cooking, were mainstays of these establishments. Most Chinatown restaurants stayed open until 4 A.M. on weekends.\n\nThe number of Chinese living in Chinatown rose significantly during the next four decades. A major influx of new Chinese residents occurred in the 1950s, after the Communist revolution in China in 1949. Chinatown remained a popular dining destination throughout the 1940s and 1950s. A new restaurant, the Three Chinese Sisters, opened in 1949 and quickly became a Cleveland dining landmark.\n\nChinatown entered a sharp decline in the 1970s. In part, this was caused by the influx of non-Chinese Asians into the area. Shared cultural values, which encouraged Chinese to support other Chinese businesses and families, broke down as pluralism increased. Another factor was the lessening of racial barriers, which allowed more Asians to obtain a college degree or a better job and leave Chinatown. A final factor was the improved financial condition of second- and third-generation immigrant families, many of whom left downtown for larger homes in the suburbs. Although the very popular Golden Coins restaurant opened in 1976 in the former Rockwell Restaurant building, by 1985 only two businesses (both restaurants) remained in Cleveland's historic Chinatown.\n\nAn early 1990 crime wave and the opening of Asia Plaza (a shopping mall catering to Asian businesses and consumers) in nearby Asiatown worsened the economic decline of historic Chinatown. The last Asian restaurant on Rockwell Avenue was Shanghai Wu's Cuisine, which took over the Shanghai Restaurant space in December 2006. It closed in February 2009.\n\nCleveland saw a major influx of Koreans from 1960 to 1970, many of whom lived in Chinatown. Significant numbers of Vietnamese took up residence in the enclave from 1980 to 2000. As these and other Asian immigrant groups settled in greater numbers in Cleveland, the Asian enclave began to expand beyond its original boundaries to the east. By the early 1990s, a new enclave had emerged, bounded by St. Clair and Payne Avenues and E. 30th and E. 40th Streets.\n\nIn 1986, a Chinese restaurant, Bo Loong, opened in a newly constructed building at 3922 St. Clair Avenue. Attracting both Asian and non-Asian customers, it proved to be a groundbreaking establishment which anchored the emerging Asiatown. In 1991, Asia Plaza opened on the northwest corner of E. 30th Street and Payne Avenue. This modern shopping mall, which featured extensive parking space, not only provided a more comfortable indoor shopping experience for consumers but also drew new diners. It was anchored by Li Wah, the second in a chain of restaurants (all featuring the \"Wah\" name) which catered to both Asian and non-Asian palates. New Asian grocery stores, stocking items for a wide range of Asian cuisines, also opened.\n\nBy 2002, a distinct Asian enclave had emerged in the \"new Chinatown\". In 2006, merchants and developers began using the term \"Asiatown\" to the describe the area, a term which better reflected the cultural diversity of the enclave. The name was formally adopted by local residents and merchants and by the St. Clair-Superior Development Corporation in August 2007.\n\nA second major shopping mall, Asian Town Center, opened in Asiatown in 2008. Located at Superior Avenue and E. 38th Street, tenants included Korean and Vietnamese restaurants and a large Asian grocery store. The mall also included non-traditional businesses, such a dance studio, homeopathic medicine \"pharmacy\", martial arts studio, and the Negative Space Gallery. The art gallery, which opened in 2010, featured artist workspaces, a performance area, coffee bar, and exhibition space.\n\nAsiatown merchants inaugurated the Cleveland Asian Festival in 2011. The one-day festival drew more than 10,000 people its first year. By 2015, the festival had expanded to two days and drew more than 45,000 people—making it one of Cleveland's most popular spring events. The revitalization of the enclave led to a major renovation of the historic Chinatown Building on Rockwell Avenue in 2011.\n\nIn 2015, Asiatown merchants inaugurated the first of the Night Market events. Held on Rockwell Avenue and designed to help bring life to Old Chinatown, the Night Market (held during evening hours once a month in the summer) featured live music, dance performances, and the sale of alcoholic beverages, art, food, and soft drinks. The first few Night Markets attracted only a few hundred people, but by 2016 some nights had more than 10,000 people patronize the event. Night Market has since become an economic mainstay of Asiatown, along with the Cleveland Asian Festival.\n\nThe name of the enclave is spelled both \"Asiatown\" and \"AsiaTown\".\n\nAsiatown consists of two sections. That portion known as \"Historic Chinatown\" or \"Old Chinatown\" runs on either side of Rockwell Avenue between E. 21st and E. 24th Streets. The remainder of Asiatown is bounded by E. 30th and E. 40th Streets between St. Clair and Perkins Avenues.\n\nThe population of Asiatown was approximately 1,200 in 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "57589722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57589722", "title": "CSR Centre", "text": "CSR Centre\n\nCSR Centre is a Corporate social responsibility focused Non-governmental organization based in Bangladesh. Founded in September 2007 by former Bangladeshi diplomat Farooq Sobhan, who currently serves as the Chairman of the Board of Trustees, CSR Centre is a source of information, resources, and advisory services for sustainable business practices in Bangladesh. \n\nThe organization is currently headed by Shahamin Zaman, who serves as the Chief Executive Officer, an industry professional who also serves as the Executive Director for the United Nations Global Compact Bangladesh Network, launched in collaboration by CSR Centre, the Bangladesh Enterprise Institute, and United Nations Development Programme. The organization frequently partners with various governmental, local, and international organizations on CSR related initiatives across Bangladesh. \n\nSince 2017, the CSR Centre has been working closely with the Ministry of Planning (Bangladesh) to develop a comprehensive national CSR guideline for local businesses. \n\n"}
{"id": "159917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=159917", "title": "Clarence Darrow", "text": "Clarence Darrow\n\nClarence Seward Darrow (; April 18, 1857 – March 13, 1938) was an American lawyer, a leading member of the American Civil Liberties Union, and a prominent advocate for Georgist economic reform. He defended high-profile clients in many famous trials of the early 20th century, including teenage thrill killers Leopold and Loeb for murdering 14-year-old Robert \"Bobby\" Franks (1924); teacher John T. Scopes in the Scopes \"Monkey\" Trial (1925), in which he opposed statesman and orator William Jennings Bryan; and Ossian Sweet in a racially charged self-defense case (1926). Called a \"sophisticated country lawyer\", Darrow's wit and eloquence made him one of the most prominent attorneys and civil libertarians in the nation.\n\nClarence Darrow was born in the small town of Kinsman, Ohio, on April 18, 1857, the fifth son of Amirus and Emily Darrow (née Eddy). Both the Darrow and Eddy families had deep roots in colonial New England, and several of Darrow's ancestors served in the American Revolution. Darrow's father was an ardent abolitionist and a proud iconoclast and religious freethinker. He was known throughout the town as the \"village infidel\". Emily Darrow was an early supporter of female suffrage and a women's rights advocate.\n\nThe young Clarence attended Allegheny College and the University of Michigan Law School, but did not graduate from either institution. He attended Allegheny College for only one year before the Panic of 1873 struck, and Darrow was determined not to be a financial burden to his father any longer. Over the next three years he taught in the winter at the district school in a country community. While teaching, Darrow started to study the law on his own, and by the end of his third year of teaching, his family urged him to enter the law department at Ann Arbor. Darrow only studied there a year when he decided that it would be much more cost-effective to work and study in an actual law office. When he felt that he was ready, he took the Ohio bar exam and passed. He was admitted to the Ohio bar in 1878. The Clarence Darrow Octagon House, his childhood home in Kinsman, contains a memorial to him.\n\nDarrow married Jessie Ohl in April 1880. They had one child, Paul Edward Darrow, in 1883. They were divorced in 1897. Darrow later married Ruby Hammerstrom, a journalist 16 years his junior, in 1903. They had no children.\n\nDarrow opened his first little law office in Andover, Ohio, a small farming town just ten miles from Kinsman. Having little to no experience, he started off slowly and gradually built up his career by dealing with the everyday complaints and problems of a farming community. After two years Darrow felt he was ready to take on new and different cases and moved his practice to Ashtabula, Ohio, which had a population of 5,000 people and was the largest city in the county. There he became involved in Democratic Party politics and served as the town counsel.\n\nIn 1880, he married Jessie Ohl, and eight years later he moved to Chicago with his wife and young son, Paul. He did not have much business when he first moved to Chicago, and spent as little as possible. He joined the Henry George Club and made some friends and connections in the city. Being part of the club also gave him an opportunity to speak for the Democratic Party on the upcoming election. He slowly made a name for himself through these speeches, eventually earning the standing to speak in whatever hall he liked. He was offered work as an attorney for the city of Chicago. Darrow worked in the city law department for two years when he resigned and took a position as a lawyer at the Chicago and North-Western Railway Company. In 1894, Darrow represented Eugene V. Debs, the leader of the American Railway Union, who was prosecuted by the federal government for leading the Pullman Strike of 1894. Darrow severed his ties with the railroad to represent Debs, making a financial sacrifice. He saved Debs in one trial but could not keep him from being jailed in another.\n\nAlso in 1894, Darrow took on the first murder case of his career, defending Patrick Eugene Prendergast, the \"mentally deranged drifter\" who had confessed to murdering Chicago mayor Carter Harrison, Sr. Darrow's \"insanity defense\" failed and Prendergast was executed that same year. Among fifty defenses in murder cases throughout the whole of Darrow's career, the Prendergast case would prove to be the only one resulting in an execution, though Darrow did not join the defense team until after Prendergast's conviction and sentence, in an effort to spare him the noose.\n\nDarrow soon became one of America's leading labor attorneys. He helped organize the Populist Party in Illinois and then ran for U.S. Congress as a Democrat in 1895 but lost to Hugh R. Belknap. In 1897, his marriage to Jessie Ohl ended in divorce. He joined the Anti-Imperialist League in 1898 in opposition to the U.S. annexation of the Philippines. He represented the woodworkers of Wisconsin in a notable case in Oshkosh in 1898 and the United Mine Workers in Pennsylvania in the great anthracite coal strike of 1902. He flirted with the idea of running for mayor of Chicago in 1903 but ultimately decided against it. The following year, in July, Darrow married Ruby Hammerstrom, a young Chicago journalist. His former mentor, Governor John Peter Altgeld, joined Darrow's firm following his Chicago mayoral electoral defeat in 1899 and worked with Darrow until his death in 1902.\nFrom 1906 to 1908, Darrow represented the Western Federation of Miners leaders William \"Big Bill\" Haywood, Charles Moyer, and George Pettibone when they were arrested and charged with conspiring to murder former Idaho Governor Frank Steunenberg in 1905. Haywood and Pettibone were found not guilty in separate trials, and the charges against Moyer were then dropped.\n\nIn 1911, the American Federation of Labor (AFL) called on Darrow to defend the McNamara brothers, John and James, who were charged in the Los Angeles \"Times\" bombing on October 1, 1910, during the bitter struggle over the open shop in Southern California. The bomb had been placed in an alley behind the building, and although the explosion itself did not bring the building down, it ignited nearby ink barrels and natural gas main lines. In the ensuing fire, 20 people were killed. The AFL appealed to local, state, regional and national unions to donate 25 cents per capita to the defense fund, and set up defense committees in larger cities throughout the nation to accept donations.\n\nIn the weeks before the jury was seated, Darrow became increasingly concerned about the outcome of the trial and began negotiations for a plea bargain to spare the defendants' lives. During the weekend of November 19–20, 1911, he discussed with pro-labor journalist Lincoln Steffens and newspaper publisher E.W. Scripps the possibility of reaching out to the \"Times\" about the terms of a plea agreement. The prosecution had demands of its own, however, including an admission of guilt in open court and longer sentences than the defense proposed.\n\nThe defense's position weakened when, on November 28, Darrow was accused of orchestrating to bribe a prospective juror. The juror reported the offer to police, who set up a sting and observed the defense team's chief investigator, Bert Franklin, delivering $4,000 to the juror two blocks away from Darrow's office. After making payment, Franklin walked one block in the direction of Darrow's office before being arrested right in front of Darrow himself, who had just walked to that very intersection after receiving a phone call in his office. With Darrow himself on the verge of being discredited, the defense's hope for a simple plea agreement ended. On December 1, 1911, the McNamara brothers changed their pleas to guilty, in open court. The plea bargain Darrow helped arrange earned John fifteen years and James life imprisonment. Despite sparing the brothers the death penalty, Darrow was accused by many in organized labor of selling the movement out.\n\nTwo months later, Darrow was charged with two counts of attempting to bribe jurors in both cases. He faced two lengthy trials. In the first, defended by Earl Rogers, he was acquitted. Rogers became ill during the second trial and rarely came to court. Darrow served as his own attorney for the remainder of the trial, which ended with a hung jury. A deal was struck in which the district attorney agreed not to retry Darrow if he promised not to practice law again in California. Darrow's early biographers, Irving Stone and Arthur and Lila Weinberg, asserted that he was not involved in the bribery conspiracy, but more recently, Geoffrey Cowan and John A. Farrell, with the help of new evidence, concluded that he almost certainly was. In the biography of Earl Rogers by his daughter Adela, she wrote: \"I never had any doubts, even before one of my father's private conversations with Darrow included an admission of guilt to his lawyer.\"\n\nAs a consequence of the bribery charges, most labor unions dropped Darrow from their list of preferred attorneys. This effectively put Darrow out of business as a labor lawyer, and he switched to civil and criminal cases. He took the latter because he had become convinced that the criminal justice system could ruin people's lives if they were not adequately represented.\n\nThroughout his career, Darrow devoted himself to opposing the death penalty, which he felt to be in conflict with humanitarian progress. In more than 100 cases, Darrow only lost one murder case in Chicago. He became renowned for moving juries and even judges to tears with his eloquence. Darrow had a keen intellect often hidden by his rumpled, unassuming appearance.\n\nA July 23, 1915, article in the \"Chicago Tribune\" describes Darrow's effort on behalf of J.H. Fox, an Evanston, Illinois, landlord, to have Mary S. Brazelton committed to an insane asylum against the wishes of her family. Fox alleged that Brazelton owed him rent money, although other residents of Fox's boarding house testified to her sanity.\n\nIn the summer of 1924, Darrow took on the case of Nathan Leopold Jr. and Richard Loeb, the teenage sons of two wealthy Chicago families who were accused of kidnapping and killing Bobby Franks, a 14-year-old boy, from their stylish southside Kenwood neighborhood. Leopold was a law student at the University of Chicago about to transfer to Harvard Law School, and Loeb was the youngest graduate ever from the University of Michigan; they were 18 and 17, respectively, when they were arrested. When asked why they committed the crime, Leopold told his captors: \"The thing that prompted Dick to want to do this thing and prompted me to want to do this thing was a sort of pure love of excitement... the imaginary love of thrills, doing something different... the satisfaction and the ego of putting something over.\"\n\nChicago newspapers labeled the case the \"Trial of the Century\" and Americans around the country wondered what could drive the two young men, blessed with everything their society could offer, to commit such a depraved act. The killers had been arrested after a passing workman spotted the victim's body in an isolated nature preserve near the Indiana border just half a day after it was hidden, before they could collect a $10,000 ransom. Nearby were Leopold's eyeglasses with their distinctive, traceable frames, which he had dropped at the scene.\n\nLeopold and Loeb made full confessions and took police on a hunt around Chicago to collect the evidence that would be used against them. The state's attorney told the press that he had a \"hanging case\" for sure. Darrow stunned the prosecution when he had his clients plead guilty in order to avoid a vengeance-minded jury and place the case before a judge. The trial, then, was actually a long sentencing hearing in which Darrow contended, with the help of expert testimony, that Leopold and Loeb were mentally diseased.\n\nDarrow's closing argument lasted 12 hours. He repeatedly stressed the ages of the \"boys\" (before the Vietnam War, the age of majority was 21) and noted that \"never had there been a case in Chicago where on a plea of guilty a boy under 21 had been sentenced to death.\" His plea was designed to soften the heart of Judge John Caverly, but also to mold public opinion, so that Caverly could follow precedent without too huge an uproar. Darrow succeeded. Caverly sentenced Leopold and Loeb to life in prison plus 99 years. Darrow's closing argument was published in several editions in the late 1920s and early 1930s, and was reissued at the time of his death.\n\nThe Leopold and Loeb case raised, in a well-publicized trial, Darrow's lifelong contention that psychological, physical, and environmental influences—not a conscious choice between right and wrong—control human behavior. Darrow's psychiatric expert witnesses testified that both boys \"were decidedly deficient in emotion\". Darrow later argued that emotion is necessary for the decisions that people make. When someone tries to go against a certain law or custom that is forbidden, he wrote, he should feel a sense of revulsion. As neither Leopold nor Loeb had a working emotional system, they did not feel revolted.\n\nDuring the trial, the newspapers claimed that Darrow was presenting a \"million dollar defense\" for the two wealthy families. Many ordinary Americans were angered at his apparent greed. He had the families issue a statement insisting that there would be no large legal fees and that his fees would be determined by a committee composed of officers from the Chicago Bar Association. After trial, Darrow suggested $200,000 would be reasonable. After lengthy negotiations with the defendants' families, he ended up getting some $70,000 in gross fees, which, after expenses and taxes, netted Darrow $30,000, worth over $375,000 in 2016.\n\nIn 1925, Darrow defended John T. Scopes in the \"State of Tennessee v. Scopes\" trial. It has often been called the \"Scopes Monkey Trial,\" a title popularized by author and journalist H.L. Mencken. The trial, which was deliberately staged to bring publicity to the issue at hand, pitted Darrow against William Jennings Bryan in a court case that tested Tennessee's Butler Act, which had been passed on March 21, 1925. The act forbade the teaching of \"the Evolution Theory\" in any state-funded educational establishment. More broadly, it outlawed in state-funded schools (including universities) the teaching of \"any theory that denies the story of the Divine Creation of man as taught in the Bible, and to teach instead that man has descended from a lower order of animals.\"\n\nDuring the trial, Darrow requested that Bryan be called to the stand as an expert witness on the Bible. Over the other prosecutor's objection, Bryan agreed. Popular media at the time portrayed the following exchange as the deciding factor that turned public opinion against Bryan in the trial:\n\nAfter about two hours, Judge John T. Raulston cut the questioning short and on the following morning ordered that the whole session (which in any case the jury had not witnessed) be expunged from the record, ruling that the testimony had no bearing on whether Scopes was guilty of teaching evolution. Scopes was found guilty and ordered to pay the minimum fine of $100.\n\nA year later, the Tennessee Supreme Court reversed the decision of the Dayton court on a procedural technicality—not on constitutional grounds, as Darrow had hoped. According to the court, the fine should have been set by the jury, not Raulston. Rather than send the case back for further action, however, the Tennessee Supreme Court dismissed the case. The court commented, \"Nothing is to be gained by prolonging the life of this bizarre case.\"\n\nThe event led to a change in public sentiment and an increased discourse on the creation claims of religious teachers versus those of secular scientists i.e., creationism compared to evolutionism that still exist. It also became popularized in a play based loosely on the trial, \"Inherit the Wind\", which has been adapted several times on film and television.\n\nOn September 9, 1925, a white mob in Detroit attempted to drive a black family out of the home they had purchased in a white neighborhood. During the struggle, a white man was killed, and the eleven black men in the house were later arrested and charged with murder. Ossian Sweet, a doctor, and three members of his family were brought to trial, and after an initial deadlock, Darrow argued to the all-white jury: \"I insist that there is nothing but prejudice in this case; that if it was reversed and eleven white men had shot and killed a black man while protecting their home and their lives against a mob of blacks, nobody would have dreamed of having them indicted. They would have been given medals instead...\" \n\nFollowing a mistrial, it was agreed that each of the eleven defendants would be tried individually. Darrow, alongside Thomas Chawke, would first defend Ossian's brother Henry, who had confessed to firing the shot on Garland Street. Henry was found not guilty on grounds of self-defense, and the prosecution determined to drop the charges on the remaining ten. The trials were presided over by Frank Murphy, who went on to become Governor of Michigan and an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court of the United States.\nDarrow's closing statement, which lasted over seven hours, is seen as a landmark in the Civil Rights movement and was included in the book \"Speeches that Changed the World\" (given the name \"I Believe in the Law of Love\"). The two closing arguments of Clarence Darrow, from the first and second trials, show how he learned from the first trial and reshaped his remarks.\n\nThe Scopes Trial and the Sweet trial were the last big cases that Darrow took on before he retired from full-time practice at the age of 68. He still took on a few cases such as the 1932 Massie Trial in Hawaii.\n\nIn his last headline-making case, the Massie Trial, Darrow, devastated by the Great Depression, was hired by Eva Stotesbury, the wife of Darrow's old family friend Edward T. Stotesbury, to come to the defense of Grace Fortescue, Edward J. Lord, Deacon Jones, and Thomas Massie, Fortescue's son-in-law, who were accused of murdering Joseph Kahahawai. Kahahawai had been accused, along with four other men, of raping and beating Thalia Massie, Thomas's wife and Fortescue's daughter; the resulting 1931 case ended in a hung jury (though the charges were later dropped and repeated investigation has shown them to be innocent). Enraged, Fortescue and Massie then orchestrated the murder of Kahahawai in order to extract a confession and were caught by police officers while transporting his dead body.\n\nDarrow entered the racially charged atmosphere as the lawyer for the defendants. Darrow reconstructed the case as a justified honor killing by Thomas Massie. Considered by \"The New York Times\" to be one of Darrow's three most compelling trials (along with the Scopes Trial and the Leopold and Loeb case), the case captivated the nation and most of white America strongly supported the honor killing defense. In fact, the final defense arguments were transmitted to the mainland through a special radio hookup. In the end, the jury came back with a unanimous verdict of guilty, but on the lesser crime of manslaughter. As to Darrow's closing, one juror commented, \"[h]e talked to us like a bunch of farmers. That stuff may go over big in the Middle West, but not here.\" Governor Lawrence Judd later commuted the sentences to one hour in his office. Years later Deacon admitted to shooting Kahahawai; Massie was found \"not Guilty\" in a posthumous trial.\n\nAs part of a public symposium on belief held in Columbus, Ohio, Darrow delivered a speech, later titled \"Why I Am An Agnostic\", on agnosticism, skepticism, belief, and religion. In the speech, Darrow thoroughly discussed the meaning of being an agnostic and questioned the doctrines of Christianity and the Bible. He concluded that \"the fear of God is not the beginning of wisdom. The fear of God is the death of wisdom. Skepticism and doubt lead to study and investigation, and investigation is the beginning of wisdom.\"\n\nIn January 1931 Darrow had a debate with English writer G. K. Chesterton during the latter's second trip to America. This was held at New York City's Mecca Temple. The topic was \"Will the World Return to Religion?\". At the end of the debate those in the hall were asked to vote for the man they thought had won the debate. Darrow received 1,022 votes while Chesterton received 2,359 votes. There is no known transcript of what was said except for third party accounts published later on. The earliest of these was that of February 4, 1931, issue of \"The Nation\" with an article written by Henry Hazlitt.\n\nIn the edition of November 18, 1915 of \"The Washington Post\", Darrow stated: “Chloroform unfit children. Show them the same mercy that is shown beasts that are no longer fit to live.” However, Darrow was also critical of some eugenics advocates.\n\nDarrow died on March 13, 1938, of pulmonary heart disease.\n\nToday, Clarence Darrow is remembered for his reputation as a fierce litigator who, in many cases, championed the cause of the underdog; because of this, he is generally regarded as one of the greatest criminal defense lawyers in American history.\nAccording to legend, before he died, Darrow declared that if there was an afterlife, he would return on the small bridge (now known as the Clarence Darrow Memorial Bridge) located just south of the Museum of Science and Industry in Hyde Park, Chicago on the date of his death. Darrow was skeptical of a belief in life after death (he is reported to have said: \"Every man knows when his life began... If I did not exist in the past, why should I, or could I, exist in the future?\") but he made this promise to dissuade mediums from charging people money to \"talk\" to his spirit. People still gather on the bridge in the hopes of seeing his ghost.\n\n\n\n\n\nA volume of Darrow's boyhood reminiscences, entitled \"Farmington\", was published in Chicago in 1903 by McClurg and Company.\n\nDarrow shared offices with Edgar Lee Masters, who achieved more fame for his poetry, in particular, the \"Spoon River Anthology\", than for his advocacy.\n\nThe papers of Clarence Darrow are located bat the Library of Congress and the University of Minnesota Libraries. The Riesenfeld Rare Books Research Center of the University of Minnesota Law School has the largest collection of Clarence Darrow material including personal letters to and from Darrow. Many of these letters and other material are available on the U of M's Clarence Darrow Digital Collection website.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6432937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6432937", "title": "Donald Gordon (South African businessman)", "text": "Donald Gordon (South African businessman)\n\nSir Donald Gordon (born 24 June 1930 ) is a South African businessman and philanthropist.\n\nEducated at King Edward VII School in Johannesburg before doing his articles to be a Chartered Accountant at the firm \"Kessel Feinstein\" (Now \"Grant Thornton\").\n\nHe founded the \"Liberty Life Association of Africa\" in 1957 out of which he formed \"Transatlantic Insurance Holdings plc\", now Liberty International, in 1980.\n\nHe was behind the development of Sandton City, one of the most successful shopping centres in the world. \n\nGordon was a director of the Guardian Royal Exchange Group for 24 years and chaired their South African subsidiary, Guardian National Insurance Company.\n\nThe Gordon Institute of Business Science (GIBS) in Johannesburg, South Africa was established in January 2000 following a substantial contribution by Donald Gordon and a major investment by the University of Pretoria.\n\nIn 2004, Gordon gave the Royal Opera House and Wales Millennium Centre a collective donation of £20 million payable over five years. This is believed to be one of the largest single private donation ever made to the arts in the UK. Sir Donald has had the Grand Tier at the Royal Opera House as well as the main auditorium of the Wales Millennium Centre named after him.\n\nAt the 2000 Entrepreneur of the Year Awards in London, Gordon received the Entrepreneur of the Year Special Award for Lifetime Achievement. He received an honorary doctorate of economic science from the University of the Witwatersrand and an honorary doctorate in commerce from the University of Pretoria. In 1968 he was named 'Business Man of the Year' by the South African Sunday Times. In 1999 he was named as 'The Achiever of the Century in South African Financial Services' by South African \"Financial Mail\".\n\nIn June 2005, he was awarded a knighthood in recognition of his services to arts and business.\n"}
{"id": "18115527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18115527", "title": "Eric Chia", "text": "Eric Chia\n\nTan Sri Eric Chia Eng Hock () was a prominent Malaysian businessman. He died of a heart attack in Sungai Petani, Kedah, aged 74.\n\nOn 11 April 1996, Lim Guan Eng had lodged, at the Sentul police headquarters, a police report titled “First Report On Financial Malpractices, Abuse Of Power, Corruption And Fraud In Perwaja Terengganu Sdn Bhd (Perwaja).”\n\nOn 2 January 2002, Chia filed a defamation suit against Lim, claiming that Lim had pictured him as corrupt and not qualified to serve the company. In his statement of claim he said the report had severely damaged his reputation as a well-known businessman and sought general and aggravated damages and other relief deemed fit by the court.\n\nOn 1 March 2002, Lim entered his statement of defence stating that he relied on qualified privilege.\n\nOn 22 April 2009, Jega Kumar & Associates filed a notice of discontinuance of Chia’s suit.\n\nOn 27 April 2009, almost a year after Chia died, High Court Deputy Registrar, Norazlin Othman, in chambers, granted the application by counsel for the late Tan Sri Eric Chia Eng Hock to withdraw a defamation suit against DAP secretary-general Lim Guan Eng.\n\n"}
{"id": "39183091", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39183091", "title": "Esta Henry", "text": "Esta Henry\n\nEsta Henry or Esther Henry (1883–1963) was an antique dealer in Edinburgh, Scotland. Born in Newcastle-upon-Tyne, in her time she was the subject of news stories in many countries and known for her eccentric behavior. Sometimes called \"Mrs. Scotland\" in the press, she had ties to a number of notable people and events, including British queens and the auction of the collections of King Farouk of Egypt.\n\nHenry ran an antiques business out of a shop called \"The Luckenbooth\" in Moubray House, the oldest building on the Royal Mile in Edinburgh. A luckenbooth is a heart-shaped Scottish brooch named for the shops in the Luckenbooths tenements where jewelry was once sold. Moubray House is next to the John Knox House and is the oldest occupied building in the city. Most records state that Robert Moubray built the original house in 1477. The property itself has gone through many rebuilds and renovations and was gifted to Historic Scotland, the association responsible for historic monuments, in 2012.\n\nThe antique shop on the Royal Mile was \"a favourite haunt\" of Queen Mary (Mary of Teck), and visited by the Queen (Queen Elizabeth The Queen Mother) and Princess Margaret, in 1948. During the visit, Esta Henry took them to see the flat above the shop in Moubray House, where the Queen Mother said she \"would like to live on the Royal Mile\".\n\nOn 1 May 1953, £650 of the \"Hungarian crown jewels collection\" was stolen from Henry's shop. The gems were later found at 22 St. Stephen's road in Canterbury. Henry agreed to pay £15 to the owner of the shop, Barnett Lee, to recover her property. The aquamarine, diamond and platinum brooch was sold to Lee (in parts) for £60, by one of two men who had been sentenced at the High Court in Edinburgh for the theft.\n\nIt is possible that these items were stolen from Henry by Archibald Hall, alias Roy Fontaine. Although he was caught and jailed for his crimes, Hall used the proceeds of his thefts in Scotland to move to London. In England he became infamous for infiltrating high class society, committing robberies, and killing a number of his targets. In 1978, Hall was found guilty of murder and sentenced to two life-terms. He died in Kingston Prison, Portsmouth in 2002. A screenplay for a film about Hall, called \"Monster Butler\", was written by Peter Bellwood.\n\nAccording to A. M. Nicol in the 2011 book, \"The Monster Butler\", Hall claimed that he planned the theft that was Scotland's biggest jewel robbery. He devised a scheme with his accomplice, John Wootton, whom he met in prison. Together they took approximately £100,000 in goods from a tin box at the back of Henry's shop and went to Torquay. After hiding some of the jewels, they were arrested and sent to Edinburgh. Nicol writes, \"the prosecution offered them a deal which involved the true value of the jewels not being made public\". Nicol posits that Hall's story is a fabrication and the actual was an \"opportunistic sneak theft\" for a great deal less value.\n\nFarouk I of Egypt was the king of Egypt and Sudan, following his father Fuad I of Egypt, in 1936. He was known for his extensive collection including decorated horological instruments, coins and pornographic art. In 1952, Farouk was deposed by the Egyptian government. His collections were auctioned in February 1954 to return the money spent by Farouk to Egypt's treasury. News of the auction was reported throughout the world, and Henry was the subject of a number of these articles.\n\nThe auction was run by the new government, not professional auctioneers, which resulted in unusual circumstances. During the auction, Henry protested that she could not see and left the salesroom; the supervisors followed her to make amends. Two days earlier, Henry insisted that they conduct the auction in English as well as French and Eqyptian, and they complied. At one point Henry grabbed a clock from the stand in the middle of bidding, \"When I saw it I rushed up and shouted, lay off—this is for Scotland. If any twister breaks my bid I'll break his neck.\"\n\nHenry spent over 10,000 pounds sterling at the auction held at the Koubbeh Palace in Cairo, and purchased some items made in Britain; \"It gives me pleasure to see rare treasures in their rightful places\", she said. One of these was a star shaped watch made by David Ramsay in the 17th century.\n\nDuring the trip, Henry spoke to a group of women who were holding a starvation strike at the Cairo Press Club to gain the right to vote. The women were members of Daughters of the Nile (Bint El Nil), led by 36-year-old Doria Shafik.\n\nHenry claimed to have started in the antique business 'shoving a hawker's barrow out of Jane Street' at the age of 9, \"I started with a pushbike and 30 bob, I lived in one room which was also the shop.\"\n\nHenry performed secret acts of charity to local families, and was elected councillor to Edinburgh of one of the Canongate wards in 1936. Although she was Jewish, Henry had campaigned under a Protestant Action banner, supporting Protestant leader John Cormack. Shortly after her election Cormack announced he and Henry would stand for Parliament at the next UK general election, but in fact Henry soon left Protestant Action. Tom Gallagher believes Henry was not anti-Catholic, but joined Protestant Action as a means to become a councillor. Kenneth Baxter concurs with this view noting among other evidence the facts that she had previously sought election to Edinburgh Council as 'Moderate/Progressive' candidate without success on five previous occasions and in October 1936 had been intending to stand as an 'Independent Progressive'.\n\nHenry was widowed in 1947 at the age of 64, and left with 2 daughters and 3 sons.\n\nIn 1953, a Romanian art dealer named Pinchas Haimovici was held in Saughton Prison, Edinburgh, pending deportation for entering the country on a false passport with the name Paul Eugene Dillon (a Belgian named Paul Dijon in other sources). Esta Henry previously met Haimovici, who was 20 years her junior, when he came into her shop in Moubray House. She did not believe his claims and determined to help him, after which he surrendered voluntarily to the court. After his release by the Sheriff Court, he was arrested again as an alien to be deported. Haimovici appealed the order made by the Home Secretary, claiming that he would be put to death as anti-Communist if he was returned to Romania. Henry declared that she \"loved Paul\" and she would marry him and take care of all his financial needs (presumably to legalize his position in Scotland). They married shortly after his second release and Haimovici changed his name to Paul Henry.\n\nSculptor Benno Schotz created a piece called \"Paul and Esta Henry,\" shown at the Royal Academy of Arts in 1954.\n\nEsta and Paul Henry died on 17 January 1963, in an air crash in São Paulo, Brazil, returning from a \"belated honeymoon\". Henry's antiques were taken over by her son Louis Henry.\n\n"}
{"id": "39322711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39322711", "title": "Exceptio non adimpleti contractus", "text": "Exceptio non adimpleti contractus\n\nThe exceptio non adimpleti contractus is a defence that can be raised in the case of a reciprocal contract. In essence, it is a remedy that allows a party to withhold his own performance, accompanied by a right to ward off a claim for such performance until the other party has duly performed his or her obligations under the contract.\n\nTwo requirements must be met in order for the \"exceptio non adimpleti contractus\" to be available. The two performances must be reciprocal to one another; and the other party must be obliged to perform first.\n\n"}
{"id": "752225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=752225", "title": "ExxonMobil Building", "text": "ExxonMobil Building\n\nThe ExxonMobil Building (formerly the Humble Building) was built in 1963 in Houston. At that time it was the tallest building west of the Mississippi River at , surpassing the Southland Center in Dallas (the previous record holder). It remained the tallest building west of the Mississippi only until 1965, when Elm Place was built in Dallas.\n\nAs of 2011, ExxonMobil is the owner of the building. One of the most distinctive features of the building is the cantilevered seven-foot-wide shades () on each floor that protrude from the side of the building to provide shade from the daytime sun.\n\nCurrently, the JPMorgan Chase Tower, completed in 1982 is Houston's tallest building, and the tallest building in Texas, at .\n\nThe building is two blocks east of 1500 Louisiana Street; a parking lot is between the two buildings.\n\nThe architect of the International style structure was Welton Becket and Associates.\n\nDuring the Houston Astros' 2004 NLCS run (playoffs), the top of the building was crowned by hundreds of tiny blue lights while an enormous Astros star (logo) made of white lights was hung on the south side of the building.\n\nIn 2011 the company announced that all employees in the ExxonMobil building are moving to the new ExxonMobil office in Spring. ExxonMobil did not state what it plans to do with the building after the employees leave.\n\nIn January 2013, Shorenstein Properties announced it had closed on the property for an undisclosed amount. ExxonMobil immediately leased back the entire building into 2015. Shorenstien Properties plans to undertake significant improvements following ExxonMobil's departure.\n\nIn 2015 Mayor of Houston Annise Parker proposed moving municipal court and Houston Police Department operations into the ExxonMobil building. Charles McClelland, the head of HPD, stated that having so many law enforcement and public safety agencies concentrated in a single building may be a safety risk, citing the 1995 Oklahoma City bombing. In September 2015 Parker's administration announced that the plan would not move forward due to concerns over costs.\n\nThe top two floors were formerly dining space for the Petroleum Club of Houston, which had moved to the ExxonMobil Building in 1963. The club was accessible through elevators on Bell Street. Because of the sale and scheduled renovation of the ExxonMobil Building, the club was forced to find a new location. In late January 2015 it was scheduled to move to Total Plaza.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "1609224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1609224", "title": "Feasibility study", "text": "Feasibility study\n\nFeasibility Study is an assessment of the practicality of a proposed project or system.\n\nA feasibility study aims to objectively and rationally uncover the strengths and weaknesses of an existing business or proposed venture, opportunities and threats present in the natural environment, the resources required to carry through, and ultimately the prospects for success. In its simplest terms, the two criteria to judge feasibility are cost required and value to be attained.\n\nA well-designed feasibility study should provide a historical background of the business or project, a description of the product or service, accounting statements, details of the operations and management, marketing research and policies, financial data, legal requirements and tax obligations. Generally, feasibility studies precede technical development and project implementation.\n\nA feasibility study evaluates the project's potential for success; therefore, perceived objectivity is an important factor in the credibility of the study for potential investors and lending institutions. It must therefore be conducted with an objective, unbiased approach to provide information upon which decisions can be based.\n\nA project feasibility study is a comprehensive report that examines in detail the five frames of analysis of a given project. It also takes into consideration\nits four Ps, its risks and POVs, and its constraints (calendar, costs, and norms of quality). The goal is to determine whether the project should go ahead, be redesigned, or else abandoned altogether.. \n\nThe five frames of analysis are: The frame of definition; the frame of contextual risks; the frame of potentiality; the parametric frame; the frame of dominant and contingency strategies.\n\nThe four Ps are traditionally defined as Plan, Processes, People, and Power. The risks are considered to be external to the project (e.g., weather conditions) and are divided in eight categories: (Plan) financial and organizational (e.g., government structure for a private project); (Processes) environmental and technological; (People) marketing and sociocultural; and (Power) legal and political. POVs are Points of Vulnerability: they differ from risks in the sense that they are internal to the project and can be controlled or else eliminated.\n\nThe constraints are the standard constraints of calendar, costs and norms of quality that can each be objectively determined and measured along the entire project lifecycle. Depending on projects, portions of the study may suffice to produce a feasibility study; smaller projects, for example, may not require an exhaustive environmental assessment.\n\nThe acronym TELOS refers to the five areas of feasibility - Technical, Economic, Legal, Operational and Scheduling.\n\nThis assessment is based on an outline design of system requirements, to determine whether the company has the technical expertise to handle completion of the project. When writing a feasibility report, the following should be taken to consideration:\n\nAt this level, the concern is whether the proposal is both \"technically\" and \"legally\" feasible (assuming moderate cost).\n\nThe technical feasibility assessment is focused on gaining an understanding of the present technical resources of the organization and their applicability to the expected needs of the proposed system.\nIt is an evaluation of the hardware and software and how it meets the need of the proposed system\n\nThe selection among a number of methods to produce the same commodity should be undertaken first. Factors that make one method being preferred to other method in agricultural projects are the following:\n\nAfter we determine the appropriate method of production of a commodity, it is necessary to look for the optimal technique to produce this commodity. \nOnce the method of production and its technique are determined, technical people have to determine the projects' requirements during the investment and operating periods. These include:\n\nThe most important factors that determine the selection of project location are the following:\n\nIt Determines whether the proposed system conflicts with legal requirements, e.g., a data processing system must comply with the local data protection regulations and if the proposed venture is acceptable in accordance to the laws of the land.\n\nOperational feasibility is the measure of how well a proposed system solves the problems, and takes advantage of the opportunities identified during scope definition and how it satisfies the requirements identified in the requirements analysis phase of system development.\n\nThe operational feasibility assessment focuses on the degree to which the proposed development project fits in with the existing business environment and objectives with regard to development schedule, delivery date, corporate culture and existing business processes.\n\nTo ensure success, desired operational outcomes must be imparted during design and development. These include such design-dependent parameters as reliability, maintainability, supportability, usability, producibility, disposability, sustainability, affordability and others. These parameters are required to be considered at the early stages of design if desired operational behaviours are to be realised. A system design and development requires appropriate and timely application of engineering and management efforts to meet the previously mentioned parameters. A system may serve its intended purpose most effectively when its technical and operating characteristics are engineered into the design. Therefore, operational feasibility is a critical aspect of systems engineering that needs to be an integral part of the early design phases.\n\nA time feasibility study will take into account the period in which the project is going to take upto its completion. A project will fail if it takes too long to be completed before it is useful. Typically this means estimating how long the system will take to develop, and if it can be completed in a given time period using some methods like payback period. Time feasibility is a measure of how reasonable the project timetable is. Given our technical expertise, are the project deadlines reasonable? Some projects are initiated with specific deadlines. It is necessary to determine whether the deadlines are mandatory or desirable.\n\nDescribe how much time is available to build the new system, when it can be built, whether it interferes with normal business operations, type and amount of resources required, dependencies,\nand developmental procedures with company revenue prospectus.\n\nIn case of a new project, financial viability can be judged on the following parameters:\n\n\nThe financial viability of a project should provide the following information:\nIn 1983 the first generation of the Computer Model for Feasibility Analysis and Reporting (COMFAR), a computation tool for financial analysis of investments, was released. Since then, this United Nations Industrial Development Organization (UNIDO) software has been developed to also support the economic appraisal of projects.\nThe COMFAR III Expert is intended as an aid in the analysis of investment projects. The main module of the program accepts financial and economic data, produces financial and economic statements and graphical displays and calculates measures of performance. Supplementary modules assist in the analytical process. Cost-benefit and value-added methods of economic analysis developed by UNIDO are included in the program and the methods of major international development institutions are accommodated. The program is applicable for the analysis of investment in new projects and expansion or rehabilitation of existing enterprises as, e.g., in the case of reprivatisation projects. For joint ventures, the financial perspective of each partner or class of shareholder can be developed. Analysis can be performed under a variety of assumptions concerning inflation, currency revaluation and price escalations.\n\nThis is one of the most important sections of the feasibility study as it examines the marketability of the product or services and convinces readers that there is a potential market for the product or services. If a significant market for the product or services cannot be established, then there is no project.\n\nTypically, market studies will assess the potential sales of the product, absorption and market capture rates and the project's timing.\n\nThe feasibility study outputs the \"feasibility study report\", a report detailing the evaluation criteria, the study findings, and the recommendations.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53127818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53127818", "title": "Gabriel Escarrer", "text": "Gabriel Escarrer\n\nGabriel Escarrer Juliá (born February 1935) is a Spanish billionaire (between top 15 spanish billionaires 2017) businessman, and the founder and chairman of Meliá Hotels International.\n\nHis son Gabriel Escarrer Jaume is the vice-chairman and CEO.\n"}
{"id": "2871992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2871992", "title": "George C. Lodge", "text": "George C. Lodge\n\nGeorge Cabot Lodge II (born July 7, 1927) is an American professor and former politician.\n\nLodge was born on July 7, 1927. His father was Henry Cabot Lodge, Jr., a United States Senator from Massachusetts, U.S. Ambassador to the United Nations and South Vietnam, and the Republican nominee for Vice President in 1960. After finishing high school at Groton School, Lodge served in the U.S. Navy from 1945–1946 and then entered Harvard College, graduating \"cum laude\" in 1950. While at Harvard he was a member of the Krokodiloes.\n\nLodge was a political reporter and columnist at the \"Boston Herald\" prior to entering federal civil service. In 1954, Lodge became Director of Information at the U.S. Department of Labor. In 1958, he was appointed Assistant Secretary of Labor for International Affairs by Dwight D. Eisenhower, and was reappointed by John F. Kennedy in 1961. He was the United States Delegate to the International Labour Organization and was elected chairman of the organization's Governing Body in 1960.\n\nHe later entered politics and was the 1962 U.S. Senate candidate from Massachusetts against Ted Kennedy, marking the third time in history that the Lodges faced the Kennedys in a Massachusetts election. Previously, Lodge's father was the incumbent 1952 U.S. Senate candidate from Massachusetts against John F. Kennedy for the same seat. Additionally, Lodge's patrilineal great-grandfather Henry Cabot Lodge was reelected for the same Senate seat as the incumbent 1916 U.S. Senate candidate against the Kennedy brothers' maternal grandfather, John F. Fitzgerald.\n\nIn 1961 Lodge became a member of the Harvard Business School faculty, leaving to run for office in 1962, before returning the following year. He remained at Harvard until his retirement in 1997, when he became Professor Emeritus. He conducted research, published articles, and received honorary fellowships and distinctions in the latter parts of his career.\n\nLodge met his first wife, the late Nancy Kunhardt, daughter of author Dorothy Kunhardt, while she was studying at the Harvard Graduate School of Education and they married in 1949. They have three sons and three daughters. One of their daughters, also named Nancy, is a published children's author and professor of art history.\n\n\n\"Incomplete\"\n\n"}
{"id": "8134123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8134123", "title": "Giannis Vardinogiannis", "text": "Giannis Vardinogiannis\n\nGiannis Vardinogiannis (, born 7 April 1962) is a Greek billionaire shipping magnate, the eldest son of petroleum tycoon Vardis Vardinogiannis. He is included in the Lloyd's List \"Most influential people in the shipping industry\".\n\nHe majored in economics at Vassar College in the United States. He is a former car rally champion who owns the private rally team Cyclon Rally Sport, with seven participations (from 1986 to 1992) in the international Acropolis Rally. He was the first Greek driver in Acropolis Rally for five years from 1988 to 1992. He won six times (1987 to 1992) the Greek Rally title, driving Lancia Delta with co-driver Kostas Stefanis. Since his retirement from the sport, in 1993, he works in the family business(Vardinogiannis group of companies), which has interests in oil, shipping, television broadcasting, publishing, banking etc. The Vardinogiannis family owns the multi-billion oil refining company Motor Oil Hellas, in whose Board of Directors is Yannis Vardinogiannis, and also serves shipping company Avin International S.A., and Piraeus Bank.\n\nHe is the principal shareholder of the Cairo-based Vegas Oil and Gas.\n\nIn the summer of 2000, the President of Panathinaikos, Yiorgos Vardinogiannis, resigned from his duties and sold his share to his nephew Giannis Vardinogiannis, who changed the style of management into the club. On 22 April 2008, main shareholder Vardinogiannis gave a press conference in which he announced the decision of his family to reduce their share in the club to 50% – after 30 years of full ownership – through a €800 million increase of the company's capital stock. After the negotiations and the share capital increase, the Vardinogiannis family would hold 56% of the club, Panathinaikos Athlitikos Omilos 10% and the rest shareholders 34%. The Vardinogiannis family finally withdrew from Panathinaikos in 2012. The team had the following successes as an owner of Panathinaikos:\n\n- Quarter-finals in Champions League: 2001-02\n\n- Quarter-finals in Uefa Cup: 2002-03\n\n- Greek Championship: 2004, 2010\n\n- Greek Cup: 2004, 2010\n\nIn February 2015 Vardinogiannis said in a statement to Reuters that the new Prime Minister of Greece Alexis Tsipras had a valid point in attacking the corrupted Greek oligarchs.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46812569", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46812569", "title": "Ibrahim bin Yousuf Al-Fakhro", "text": "Ibrahim bin Yousuf Al-Fakhro\n\nEng. Ibrahim Bin Yousuf Al Hasan Al Fakhro is a Qatari writer, businessman and art collector. He authored a book entitled \"“Arabic Calligraphy and Quran, A shared journey”\" in 2015. He also held several exhibitions regarding Arabic calligraphy, Islamic Art, and the life of Muhammad. Al Fakhro holds a bachelor's degree in electrical engineering from Qatar University, as well as a diploma in management.\n\nHe started working at Kahramaa (Qatar General Electricity and Water Corporation) and became the distribution manager of the company. He later joined Qatar Tourism Authority, then became Director of Qatar's Chamber of Commerce and Industry, and finally became the CEO of Barwa Al-Baraha. He is currently vice-chairman of the Middle East Facility Management Association.\n\nAl Fakhro earned a bachelor's degree in electrical engineering from Qatar University in 1986, and earned a diploma in management in 1991.\n\n\nIbrahim Al Fakhro pointed out that his work at Qatar Tourism Authority had stimulated his passion towards collecting art. Al Fakhro's collection consists of a unique assortment of calligraphy masterpieces and ancient copies of the Quran. He also possesses a collection of Ottoman antiques as well as antiques from Makkah and some pertaining to the Ka'bah.\nAl Fakhro held several exhibitions in this regard, some of which are:\n\nAl Fakhro participated in Mal Lawal Exhibition, held at al-Riwaq Exhibition Hall near the Museum of Islamic Art in Qatar, and was awarded second place. Al Fakhro's collection included antiques and valuable pieces that portray the life during the Ottoman era. The exhibits vividly represented the different stages of the Ottoman history as well as the people's lifestyle in that era.\n\nAl Fakhro's display was distinctive in that it drew attention towards the antiquities that depict the political, military, cultural, and artistic aspects of life during the Ottoman era, complete with a thorough description of every piece on display. Al-Fakhro's section was the perfect opportunity for visitors to closely examine the antiques that tell the story of the Ottoman Empire across various times and places through precious pieces of art referring to the days of a prominent civilization in human history.\n\nHis Excellence Mr. Amri Haqi, Turkey's Ambassador in Qatar, praised the distinguished efforts of Ibrahim Al-Fakhro in collecting antiques belonging to the Ottoman era, which portray the cultural, military, and artistic status of that wondrous time characterized by profound innovation and creativity.\n\nThe Arabic Calligraphy and Qur'an, a Shared Journey Exhibition, assembled by Engineer Ibrahim Al Fakhro, featured around 80 copies of the Quran from various eras, in addition to 30 artworks by renowned international calligraphers. Also in display was a collection of valuable pieces of art pertaining to Arabic calligraphy and the Qur'an as well as several original and copied manuscripts.\n\nDuring the exhibition hosted by Katara in Ramadan 1434 A.H.(2013 A.D.), Al Fakhro took the opportunity to explain the strong association between the evolution of Arabic calligraphy and the spread of the Quran. The exhibition showcased copies of the Qur'an that were several hundred years old. The exhibition started with displaying the birth of Arabic calligraphy, followed by the appearance of innovative scripts, the addition of artistic finishes and gilding, and finally, printing. The exhibition ended with Mushaf Qatar and a few of the most beautiful printed copies of the Qur'an. Al Fakhro indicated that through his exhibition Arabic Calligraphy and Qur'an, a Shared Journey, he was keen to showcase a diversity of concepts represented by each and every displayed piece. He said that he wanted to tell the visitors different stories through these pieces.\n\nThis exhibition was held at Qatar Foundation convention center in September 2014. It included a rare assortment of artistic masterpieces from Engineer Ibrahim Al Fakhro's personal collection that portray the beauty of Arabic script.\nThe exhibition was staged in three main categories: the start of Arabic calligraphy, the evolution stage, and the modern stage. The exhibition shed the light on the diverse uses of the Arabic script, ranging from manuscripts and textiles to ceramics and coins. In display were coins dated back to the ninth and tenth centuries, including some that featured the works of prominent calligraphers such as Sheikh Hamdullah al-Amasi and Hâfiz Osman.\n"}
{"id": "2138561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2138561", "title": "Institutional research", "text": "Institutional research\n\nInstitutional research is a broad category of work done at schools, colleges and universities to inform campus decision-making and planning in areas such as admissions, financial aid, curriculum assessment, enrollment management, staffing, student life, finance, facilities, athletics, and alumni relations.\n\nInstitutional researchers collect, analyze, report, and warehouse quantitative and qualitative data about their institution's students, faculty, staff, curriculum, course offerings, and learning outcomes. They are involved in collecting and reporting information to government bodies (for example, in the USA, the United States Department of Education's Integrated Postsecondary Education Data System), to the public (e.g., Common Data Set, the National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities's University-College Accountability Network), and various college guide publishers (e.g., U.S. News & World Report and College Board). On occasion, institutional researchers share data with one another to compare their own practices and outcomes against those of similar institutions. Institutional research is the source of much of the information provided to regional and national accreditation bodies to document how institutions fulfill the standards for accreditation.\n\nIn addition to reporting, institutional researchers often engage in data analysis, ranging from simply testing whether differences in reported data are statistically significant to developing and using causal and predictive statistical models. Such models are often used in support of assessment and strategic enrollment management.\n\nDue to the need to provide data to the federal government and other entities, nearly every post-secondary institution has offices that fulfill the institutional research function. At some colleges and universities this function is centralized in a single office of institutional research, while at others it is more de-centralized. There is no single academic degree that qualifies one to be an institutional researcher, but suggested strengths include a knowledge of statistics, research methods (e.g., survey research and focus groups), and computer-based reporting and data visualization tools (e.g., SPSS, SAS, R, STATA, Microsoft Access, Microsoft Excel, MicroStrategy, and SQL). Other important assets are strong written and oral communications skills, attention to detail, and knowledge about how institutions of higher education operate. Several American universities offer graduate certificate programs in institutional research, including Ball State University, Florida State University, Humboldt State University, North Dakota State University, Penn State University, Indiana University, University of Missouri, University of Illinois, the University of Wisconsin - Stout , and the University of California San Diego Extension. \n\n"}
{"id": "4538345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4538345", "title": "James C. Collins", "text": "James C. Collins\n\nJames C. \"Jim\" Collins (born 1958) is an American author and lecturer on the subject of company sustainability and growth.\n\nCollins received a BS in Mathematical Sciences at Stanford University, and afterward obtained his MBA from Stanford Graduate School of Business followed by 18 months as a consultant with McKinsey & Company. He then worked as a product manager for Hewlett-Packard.\n\nCollins began his research and teaching career on the faculty at Stanford University's Graduate School of Business, where he received the Distinguished Teaching Award in 1992. In 1995, he founded a management laboratory in Boulder, Colorado, where he now conducts research and teaches executives from the corporate and social sectors. During that time, Collins has served as a senior executive at CNN International, and also worked with social sector organizations, such as: Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, the Girl Scouts of the USA, the Leadership Network of Churches, the American Association of K-12 School Superintendents, and the United States Marine Corps.\n\nCollins is married to former triathlete and 1985 Ironman World Championship winner, Joanne Ernst.\n\nCollins has authored or co-authored six books based on his research, including the classic \"\", a fixture on the \"Business Week\" best-seller list for more than six years, which has been translated into 25 languages. His most recent book is \"Great by Choice\". Before that he wrote \"How the Mighty Fall: And Why Some Companies Never Give In\". \"Good to Great\", his previous book, \"about the factors common to those few companies ... to sustain remarkable success for a substantial period,\" attained long-running positions on the \"New York Times\", \"Wall Street Journal\" and \"Business Week\" best-seller lists, has sold over 2.5 million hardcover copies, and has been translated into 32 languages.\n\nCollins frequently contributes to \"Harvard Business Review\", \"Business Week\", \"Fortune\" and other publications.\n\nCollins often discusses a \"Level 5 leader\" in his writings. This refers to the peak of a five-tier hierarchy of leadership characteristics presented in the books. A Level 5 Leader is someone who embodies a “paradoxical mix of personal humility and professional will.”\n\nCollins re-published an autobiography called \"Test Pilot\" (Doubleday, Doran & Co., 1935), written by his grandfather Jimmy Collins, after whom Collins is named. Jimmy Collins was the chief test pilot for the Grumman military aircraft company during the 1930s, and Clark Gable portrayed him in the movie version of his book. Jimmy Collins died in a crash while testing the F3 biplane, having predicted and described his death before it happened.\n\nBooks\n"}
{"id": "17910802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17910802", "title": "Kevork Hovnanian", "text": "Kevork Hovnanian\n\nKevork S. Hovnanian (1923 – September 24, 2009) was an Armenian-American businessman and home builder, who founded Hovnanian Enterprises in 1959. He remained the president and chief executive officer of Hovnanian Enterprises until his retirement in 1997. Despite some recent financial difficulties due to the 2008-2009 recession and financial crisis, Hovnanian Enterprises remains the sixth largest American homebuilder and the largest homebuilder in New Jersey, as of September 2009.\n\nKevork Hovnanian was born in Kirkuk, present-day Iraq, in 1923. He was the oldest of four sons born to Stepan K. Hovnanian, a refugee from Armenia who had settled in Iraq. Stepan Hovnanian operated a construction business in Kirkuk which held contracts with oil companies in the region.\n\nHovnanian took over the family's construction business after his father became ill. The company eventually employed more than 12,000 people in Iraq. However, Hovnanian fled to the United States in the aftermath of the 1958 Iraqi Revolution, which overthrew the monarchy of Faisal II of Iraq. Most of his family also moved to the United States.\n\nIn 1959, Kevork and his three brothers - Hirair Hovnanian, Jirair Hovnanian and Vahak Hovnanian - each contributed $1,000 dollars, in addition to $20,000 which they borrowed from Peter S. Vosbikian (d.1971), to found Hovnanian Enterprises, Inc. in a trailer in Toms River, New Jersey. Hirair, Jirair and Vahak left the company by 1969 to found their own enterprises. Hovnanian and his company earned a reputation to selling low cost condos and townhouses, many to first time young homewowners and families. A typical two-bedroom, two bathroom Hovnanian home built in the early 1980s cost approximately $30,000 because Hovnanian eliminated amenities such as communal swimming pools, which other builders used to attract potential buyers. In a New York Times interview in 1983, Hovnanian explained his reasoning for marketing low cost homes in developments without community amenities, \"There are limited recreation facilities going in because people have little time for socialization.\"\n\nHovnanian Enterprises had built and sold more than 30,000 homes and condos by 1989. An additional 200,000 residences were sold between 1989 and 2009, as the company expanded its construction to include luxury homes, mid-priced homes and retirement communities. It remains one the United States' largest builders of \"active adult homes\", which are sold under the name of Four Seasons communities.\n\nKevork Hovnanian stepped down as president of Hovnanian Enterprises in 1989, and was succeeded by his son, Ara K. Hovnanian. He remained chief executive until his retirement in 1997, and was also replaced as CEO by Ara Hovnanian. However, he remained the chairman of the company's board of directors until his death in 2009.\n\nThe company relocated its corporate headquarters to a new building on the banks of the Navesink River in Red Bank, New Jersey, in 2006.\n\nHovnanian left a number of philanthropic contributions during his life, especially in support of New Jersey, Armenia and the Armenian diaspora. Much the focus of his philanthropy focused on medical facilities and hospitals. His contributions included the K. Hovnanian Pavilion at the Alton A. Hovnanian Emergency Care Center at Riverview Medical Center in Red Bank and the K. Hovnanian Children's Hospital at Jersey Shore University Medical Center in Neptune, New Jersey. He also contributed donations to New York Presbyterian Hospital in New York City, which honored its benefactor by naming its cardiology practice unit for the K. Hovnanian family.\n\nHovnanian donated a townhouse in New York City for use as the official Armenian Mission to the United Nations. Hovnanian also constructed homes for earthquake victims in Armenia.\n\nIn 1986, Hovnanian constructed the St. Stepanos Armenian Church in the Elberon section of Long Branch in honor of his mother. The construction of the church fulfuilled a promise he had made to himself when he fled Iraq in the late-1950s.\n\nHovnanian resided in Rumson, New Jersey.\n\nKevork Hovnanian died on September 24, 2009, at New York Presbyterian Hospital in New York City at the age of 86. His memorial service was held at St. Vartan Cathedral in Manhattan on October 3, 2009. The service was presided over by Archbishop Khajag Barsamian.\n\nHe was survived by his wife of 60 years, Sirwart (Emily); daughters, Sossie Najarian, Esto Barry and Lucy Kalian and Nadia Rodriguez; and son, Ara Hovnanian. He was also survived by two of his brothers, Hirair and Vahak, both of whom live in Middletown, New Jersey, and 13 grandchildren. \n\nThe president of the New Jersey Builders Association, Michael H. Karmatz, called Hovnanian an \"industry vanguard\" following his death.\n"}
{"id": "35866166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35866166", "title": "List of Airbus A220 orders and deliveries", "text": "List of Airbus A220 orders and deliveries\n\nThis article lists firm orders and deliveries for the Airbus A220 family of aircraft (formerly known as Bombardier CSeries), currently in production by CSALP (C Series Aircraft Limited Partnership), a partnership between Airbus, Bombardier Inc. and the Government of Québec.\n\n\nIn December 2009, United Airlines expressed interest in using the CS100 and CS300 for replacing its aging 737–300 and 737-500 aircraft, however a future order is unlikely as airline has made orders for the Airbus A319-100 and the Boeing 737-800.\n\nIn March 2010, easyJet stated that the company was having \"ongoing discussions with Bombardier regarding its CSeries. But the airline has since ordered the Airbus A320-200 and A320neo.\n\nIn March 2018, it was stated that Garuda Indonesia wanted to order the CS300 as a replacement for the Bombardier CRJ-1000.\n\n\nThe carrier, in June 2015, converted 10 of the CS100 on order to CS300 frames for delivery in 2017. 5 more CS100 aircraft were converted to CS300 in June 2016. The remaining 5 CS100 were convertible to the larger variant within the end of 2016; Swiss announced with their 2016 financial results in March 2017 that they finalized the conversion.\nThe firm order signed by this undisclosed airline was terminated due to financial difficulties of the customer and removed from the backlog during the first quarter of 2013.\nThis order was originally announced as signed by an undisclosed airline, reported as a major network carrier. It was disclosed in June 2013 that the airline was Gulf Air. It was at first announced as the first operator of the CS100 aircraft, however, Gulf Air deferred their deliveries until 2018, as part of its restructuring plan. As a result, Braathens Regional Aviation was to be the first airline to receive the CS100, but declined the role due to the program's delays.\nThe contract signed by this new startup airline was originally announced as firmed by an undisclosed European airline. Media sources initially reported the customer as \"Odyssey Airlines\". Bombardier revealed the identity of this customer during the 2013 Paris Air Show (June 17–23). At the end of March 2014, Odyssey CEO revealed that the CS100 the airline has on order would be delivered during 2016.\nThe lessor was originally disclosed as an unnamed customer. On October 18, 2013, Bombardier announced that CDB Leasing was the company that signed this conditional order and contextually added 15 options to the previous deal.\nThe airline was previously identified as an undisclosed airline in the Americas.\nPorter Airlines specified that the two conditions that would have led to a firm contract would have been the approval by the Government of Canada, the city of Toronto and the Toronto Port Authority of an amendment to the Tripartite Agreement, that bans jet aircraft from operating into Billy Bishop Toronto City Airport (Toronto Island) and a runway extension of on each end of the runway. The Government of Canada refused to open the agreement.\nairBaltic signed a top up firm order at the Singapore Airshow in February 2014 and initially requested to remain unidentified. According to numbers provided by Bombardier, this order consisted of converted options. On July 14, 2014, Bombardier revealed the top up order came from airBaltic.\nThis order by was included in Bombardier's Q1 2014 Financial Report but not officially announced by a Press Release until the 2014 Farnborough Airshow in July.\nThis airline, which asked to remain unidentified at the time, is an existing Bombardier customer based in Africa.\nFlightglobal reported that this top-up order came from existing customer Ilyushin Finance Co. The lessor's website also reports a total of 39 CS300 on order.\nDuring the second quarter of 2016, following bankruptcy proceedings of Republic Airways Holdings, Bombardier removed Republic's order from its production plan, despite retaining it on the backlog.\nDue to the economic situation in Russia, IFC revisited its order for 32 CS300 aircraft plus 10 option to 20 CS300 aircraft plus additional Bombardier Q400 aircraft.\nOn 17 June 2015 at the Paris Airshow, airBaltic confirmed it will be the launch operator of the CS300 in the fourth quarter of 2016. The airline received its first CS300 at the end of November 2016, commencing CSeries operations on the 14th December 2016.\nIn March 2017, Braathens Regional Aviation announced it would postpone all of its orders for the CSeries indefinitely after a new Swedish ticket tax was proposed which is expected to decrease passenger demand. Upon releasing of the second quarted financial result from Bombardier, the total order from Braathens Leasing is now consisting uniquely of CS100 aircraft, signifying a conversion by the customer completed during the quarter.\nDuring the first quarter results conference, Bombardier announced that Ilyushin Finance had reassigned 6 of their CS300 on order to GTLK State Transport Leasing Co., to be leased to Red Wings Airlines and operated in cooperation with Nordavia.\nIn June 2018 several news outlets have reported that a new start-up by David Neeleman, tentatively named Moxy Airways, was to order 60 CS300 aircraft to start operations in 2020. During the 2018 Farnbourough airshow, a consortium of investors signed a commitment with Airbus, with deliveries starting in 2021, although they dismissed the usage of Moxy in the name as that would be in conflict with the samely-named Moxy Hotels by Marriott International.\n\n"}
{"id": "1302778", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1302778", "title": "List of privatizations by country", "text": "List of privatizations by country\n\nThis list of privatizations provides links to notable and/or major privatizations.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n1,150 public companies, including banks, railroads, the telephone company, mines, roads, TV stations, ports, airports, airlines, sugar mills, and retirement funds.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nA wide-scale privatization program was launched in 1992-1994, using a voucher privatization scheme; from 1995, a monetary scheme was used.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1077950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1077950", "title": "Little Tokyo, Los Angeles", "text": "Little Tokyo, Los Angeles\n\nLittle Tokyo, also known as Little Tokyo Historic District, is an ethnically Japanese American district in downtown Los Angeles and the heart of the largest Japanese-American population in North America. It is the largest and most populous of only three official Japantowns in the United States, all of which are in California (the other two are Japantown, San Francisco and Japantown, San Jose). Founded around the beginning of the 20th century, the area, sometimes called Lil' Tokyo, J-Town, 小東京 (Shō-tōkyō), is the cultural center for Japanese Americans in Southern California. It was declared a National Historic Landmark District in 1995.\n\nIn 1905 the area of \"Little Tokyo\" was described as \"bounded by San Pedro, First and Requena streets and Central avenue. The \"Los Angeles Times\" added: \"It has a population of about 3500 Japanese, with quite a colony of Jews and Russians and a few Americans. . . . there are 10,000 Japanese in the city who make this section their rendezvous.\"\n\nThe area was a magnet for immigrating Japanese until the Exclusion Act of 1924 halted any further migration. Shops were along First Street, and vegetable markets were along Central Avenue to the south. Japanese Americans were a significant ethnic group in the vegetable trade, due to the number of successful Japanese American truck farms across Southern California. In 1941, there were approximately 30,000 Japanese Americans living in Little Tokyo.\n\nThe incarceration of Japanese Americans during World War II emptied Little Tokyo. For a brief time, the area became known as \"Bronzeville\" as African Americans and also Native Americans and Latinos moved into the vacated properties and opened up nightclubs, restaurants, and other businesses. Beginning in 1942, after the city's Japanese population was rounded up and \"evacuated\" to inland concentration camps, a large number of African Americans moved to Los Angeles to find work in the labor-starved defense industry. Its share in the Great Migration almost tripled Little Tokyo's pre-war population, with some 80,000 new arrivals taking up residence there. Prohibited from buying and renting in most parts of the city by restrictive covenants, the area soon became severely overcrowded. A single bathroom was often shared by up to 40 people and one room could house as many as 16; people frequently shared \"hot beds,\" sleeping in shifts. Poor housing conditions helped spread communicable illnesses like tuberculosis and venereal disease. Crimes like robberies, rapes, and hit-and-run accidents increased, and in May and June 1943 Latino and some African American residents of Bronzeville were attacked by whites in the Zoot Suit race riots. In 1943, officials bowed to pressure from frustrated residents and proposed building temporary housing in nearby Willowbrook, but the majority-white residents of the unincorporated city resisted the plans. In 1944, 57 Bronzeville buildings were condemned as unfit for habitation and 125 ordered repaired or renovated; approximately 50 of the evicted families were sent to the Jordan Downs housing complex. In 1945, many defense industry jobs disappeared and the workers moved elsewhere in search of new employment. Others were pushed out when Japanese Americans began to return and white landlords chose not to renew leases with their wartime tenants.\n\nAfter the war, due to lack of housing in Little Tokyo, many Japanese Americans returning from the camps moved into neighborhoods surrounding the downtown area, into apartments and boarding houses. Notably, Boyle Heights, just east of Little Tokyo, had a large Japanese American population in the 1950s (as it had before the internment) until the arrival of Mexican and Latino immigrants replaced most of them.\n\nIn the late 1970s, a redevelopment movement started as Japanese corporations expanded overseas operations and many of them set up their US headquarters in the Los Angeles area. Several new shopping plazas and hotels opened, along with branches of some major Japanese banks. Although this redevelopment resulted in many new buildings and shopping centers, there are still some of the original Little Tokyo buildings and restaurants, especially along First Street.\n\nDuring the 1970s and 1980s, artists began to move into nearby aging warehouse spaces in the area, forming a hidden community in the industrialized area. Al's Bar, Gorky's, the Atomic Cafe, and LA Contemporary Exhibitions (LACE) are some well-known sites.\n\nLand use has been a contentious issue in Little Tokyo due to its history, the proximity to the Los Angeles Civic Center, the role of Los Angeles as a site of business between Japan and America, and the increasing influx of residents into the Arts District. Unlike a traditional ethnic enclave, there are relatively few Japanese residents in the area because of evacuation and internment. Consequently, Little Tokyo, like other ethnic urban enclaves, is constantly threatened with development that could eradicate it. Conversely, because the Japanese American community was politicized by the internment and subsequent Redress and Reparations effort, and because of the global and local growth of overseas Japanese investment, Little Tokyo has resisted eradication and has continued to exist as a tourist attraction, community center, and home to Japanese American senior citizens and others.\n\nThe current site of Parker Center, the Los Angeles Police Department's former headquarters, was the original site of the Nishi Hongwanji Buddhist temple. The south edge of the block where Parker Center stands was part of the First Street business strip of shops. The warehouses and new condominiums to the east of Little Tokyo were once residential areas of the district. The Weller Court mall was opposed by some people in the community because it redeveloped a strip of family-owned small businesses. Community activists established First Street as a historic district in 1986. In 2004, they helped reopen the Far East Cafe, an acknowledged community hub.\n\nIn 1959, Los Angeles entered a sister city relationship with the city of Nagoya. Nagoya is Los Angeles' oldest sister city, along with Eilat, Israel.\n\nAt its peak, Little Tokyo had approximately 30,000 Japanese Americans living in the area. Little Tokyo is still a cultural focal point for Los Angeles's Japanese American population. It is mainly a work, cultural, religious, restaurant and shopping district, because Japanese Americans today are likely to live in nearby cities such as Torrance, Gardena, and Monterey Park, as well as the Sawtelle district in the Westside of Los Angeles. However, the recent boom in downtown residential construction is changing the nature of Little Tokyo.\n\nWhat is left of the original Little Tokyo can be found in roughly five large city blocks. It is bounded on the west by Los Angeles Street, on the east by Alameda Street, on the south by 3rd Street, and on the north by First Street, but also includes a substantial portion of the block north of First and west of Alameda, location of the Japanese American National Museum, the Go For Broke Monument, and a row of historic shops which lines the north side of First Street. A timeline has been set into the concrete in front of these shops, using bronze lettering, showing the history of each of the shops from the early 20th Century until the renovation of the district in the late 1980s. More broadly, Little Tokyo is bordered by the Los Angeles River to the east, downtown Los Angeles to the west, L.A. City Hall and the Parker Center to the north, and the newly named Arts District (made up of warehouses converted into live-work lofts) to the south.\n\nThe Japanese American Cultural & Community Center is located in Little Tokyo, as well as the Japanese American National Museum. The extension of the Museum of Contemporary Art, formerly called the Temporary Contemporary and now known as the Geffen Contemporary (named after David Geffen), is also in Little Tokyo. East West Players, one of the nation's first Asian American theater companies, specializing in live theater written and performed by Asian American artists, is located in Little Tokyo, performing in the David Henry Hwang Theater. There is also the Aratani/Japan America Theater, which features plays and musical performances. Visual Communications, an Asian Pacific American media arts organization, has its offices in Little Tokyo, and each May, annually presents VC FilmFest (Los Angeles Asian Pacific Film Festival), in several venues around Little Tokyo. Additionally, the visual arts are represented by the 30-year-old arts non-profit, LAArtcore which devotes itself to creating awareness of the visual arts through 24 exhibitions each year along with educational programming.\n\nThe Nisei Week festival is held every August, and includes a large parade, a pageant, athletic events, exhibits of Japanese art and culture, a taiko drum festival, the Japanese Festival Street Faire, a car show, and other events. A queen and court will be selected.\n\nLittle Tokyo has quite a few public sculptures and artwork, including a monument to Astronaut Ellison S. Onizuka, a Japanese American from Hawaii who was a mission specialist on the Space Shuttle Challenger when it disintegrated during takeoff in 1986 and another monument to Chiune Sugihara, Japanese consul to Lithuania before World War II and Righteous among the Nations. There are also two Japanese gardens in the area open to the public—one is next to the Japanese American Cultural and Community Center and the other is a rooftop garden in the Kyoto Grand Hotel and Gardens, formerly the New Otani Hotel. The Go For Broke Monument commemorates Japanese Americans who served in the United States Military during World War II.\n\nThere are numerous Japanese restaurants, catering to both Japanese and non-Japanese clientele. Many of them specialize in one type of Japanese cuisine, such as donburi, Japanese noodles (soba, ramen and udon), shabu-shabu (which translated from Japanese means 'swish-swish', referring to the motion of dipping meat and vegetables in a communal bowl of boiling water), Japanese curry, sushi, or yakitori. There are also a number of yakiniku restaurants, where meat is often cooked on a small grill built into the center of the table. Little Tokyo is the birthplace of the California roll, invented by a chef named Ichiro Mashita at the Tokyo Kaikan sushi restaurant.\n\nTwo \"wagashi\" (Japanese sweets) shops located in Little Tokyo are among the oldest food establishments in Los Angeles. Fugetsu-do, founded in 1903, appears to be the oldest still-operating food establishment in the city and the first one to celebrate a centennial; its best-known offerings include mochi and manjū, and it claims to be an inventor of the fortune cookie. Mikawaya was founded in 1910, but is now well known as the company that introduced mochi ice cream to the United States in 1994.\n\nLittle Tokyo has several shops that specialize in Japanese-language videos and DVDs, while other shops specialize in Japanese electronics and video games. These are a great way to find Japanese video games that were either never translated into English, or were never domestically released in North America. There are also several stores that sell manga and anime related products.\n\nThe Weller Court shopping mall has several restaurants, karaoke clubs, and a Bubble Tea cafe. For tourists visiting from Japan, there are a number of shops specializing in expensive name brand products such as Coach handbags. There is also a large bookstore, Kinokuniya, that is part of a well-known Japanese chain. They have a large selection of Japanese-language books, magazines, music CDs, manga, and anime, as well as a selection of English-language books on Japanese subjects and translated manga and anime.\nThe Japanese Village Plaza is located roughly in the center of Little Tokyo. There are several restaurants in the plaza, plus a number of shops geared towards tourists. First Street and Second Street border Japanese Village Plaza and have a number of restaurants that are open later than those in the court.\n\nThe area is served by the Los Angeles Unified School District.\n\nLos Angeles Public Library operates the Little Tokyo Branch.\n\nThe main office of the Asahi Gakuen, a part-time Japanese school, is in room 308 on the third floor of the Japanese American Cultural & Community Center (JACCC, 日米文化会館 \"Nichibei Bunka Kaikan\") building, located in Little Tokyo.\n\nThere are several Buddhist temples in the area, mostly Jodo Shinshu, Jodo Shu, Shingon, and Soto Zen temples, including Zenshuji Soto Mission (the first Soto Zen temple in North America), Nishi Honganji (Los Angeles Betsuin), Higashi Honganji, Koyasan Buddhist Temple (the first Shingon temple in North America), and a few Japanese Christian churches.\n\nOne of the roots of Pentecostalism started in Little Tokyo. Where the Japanese American Cultural and Community Center Plaza is now located was once the home of the First Pentecostal Church, a multiracial congregation called the Azusa Street Mission. This is where the Azusa Street Revival started in 1906. Earlier, it was also the site of the First AME Church.\n\nSt. Francis Xavier Chapel is the center of the Japanese Catholic community in Little Tokyo. Father Albert Breton, a Japanese-speaking missionary of the Paris Foreign Mission Society (M.E.P.) with the support of Bishop Thomas Conaty of the Diocese of Los Angeles, established the community on December 25, 1912 with the first Japanese mass celebrated at the Bronson House on Jackson Street near the current Fukui Mortuary on Temple Street. The center formerly housed the Maryknoll School administered by the Maryknoll Fathers from the early 1920s until the mid-1990s. Currently, masses are offered in Japanese and English each Sunday.\n\nThe former Catholic Cathedral of Saint Vibiana is just to the west of Little Tokyo. After being heavily damaged in the 1994 Northridge earthquake, the Archdiocese moved to a new site (now the Cathedral of Our Lady of the Angels) and the old site was redeveloped with the former cathedral converted into a performing arts space and non-historic buildings on the site demolished and replaced with a new Little Tokyo Branch of the Los Angeles Public Library.\n\nThe community is served by the Metro Gold Line at Little Tokyo/Arts District station at the northeastern perimeter of Little Tokyo and is also walkable from the Metro Red and Purple subway lines at either Civic Center station or Union Station – with connections to Amtrak, Metrolink, Metro Silver Line BRT, and Foothill Transit's Silver Streak BRT services. When the Blue and Expo Lines connect to the Gold Line, via the Regional Connector, the Little Tokyo/Arts District station will be moved underground and across the street. This required demolition of two modest, one-story brick buildings. The two structures played an important role in the cultural life of the neighborhood for decades with one of the structures dating back at least to 1898.\nMetro Local lines 30 and 330 serve Little Tokyo.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13659699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13659699", "title": "Marco Piccinini", "text": "Marco Piccinini\n\nMarco Piccinini (born 1952 in Rome) is a Monegasque sport personality, businessman, and politician.\n\nPicinnini's father Arnaldo was a pioneer in the Italian electronic industry. In the 1950s he founded an industrial group which included innovative brands such as VOXSON (TV, car radios, hi-fi etc.) and VIDEOCOLOR (color TV picture tubes and other hi-tech electronic components). At the end of the 1960s, due to Arnaldo's declining health, the family disposed of their interests in the various industrial activities and decided to move to Monaco where, after his father's death, Marco focused on his two main interests – finance and motor racing.[1]\n\nMarco studied architecture in Rome, where he also began his involvement in motor racing[2] by cooperating with a Formula 3 constructor and racing team called ‘‘De Sanctis’’. He also received training in the Techniques of International Negotiations at the Graduate Institute of International Studies in Geneva.\n\nIn 1997 married Marie-Ahlem and they have a daughter.\n\n\nIn this capacity he focused particularly on:\n\n- restoring a balanced budget, generating a cash surplus in 2012; \n- Introducing new legislations and process to ensure compliance of Monaco with modern standards in the field of international tax cooperation (OCED - Global Tax Forum) and anti-money laundering (Moneyval); \n- reducing the risk profile of the Monaco National Reserve Fund while preserving its profitability.\n\n\nSociété Monégasque de Constructions Automobiles MP\nConstructions Automobiles MP - which produced a few Formula 3 single seaters.\n\nFerrari (https://web.archive.org/web/20081208000000/http://www.ferrariworld.com/FWorld/fw/index.jsp)\n\nCSAI - Commissione Sportiva Automobilistica Italiana (http://www.csai.aci.it/csai/)\nVice President of FIA, the international Motor Sport Governing Body.\n\nPrada Challenge for America’s Cup\n\nFOA – Formula One Administration\n\nFIA – Fédération Internationale de l’Automobile (http://www.fia.com/en- GB/Pages/HomePage.aspx)\n\n\nSociété de Crédit et de Banque de Monaco (Socrédit)\n\nSociété d'Etudes de Participations et de Courtages (SEPAC)\n\nCrédit Mobilier de Monaco (CMM)\n\nCompagnie Monégasque de Banque (Monaco)\n\nFinter Bank Zurich\n\nSBM - Société des Bains de Mer à Monaco\n\nPoltrona Frau SpA\n\nCharme Capital Partners SGR\n\nItalcementi SpA\n\nChurch’s Shoes Ltd\n\nABR Management\n\nPiccinini currently serves also as a member of :\n"}
{"id": "46802017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46802017", "title": "Marie Besnier Beauvalot", "text": "Marie Besnier Beauvalot\n\nMarie Besnier Beauvalot (born 1980) is a French billionaire heiress. She is a major shareholder of Lactalis.\n\nMarie Besnier Beauvalot was born in 1980. Her father, Michel Besnier, served as the CEO of Lactalis from 1955 to 2000. Her paternal grandfather, André Besnier, founded the Besnier Group (later known as Lactalis) in 1933. She has two brothers: Emmanuel Besnier, who serves as the CEO of Lactalis, and Jean-Michel Besnier.\n\nBesnier inherited 100% of Lactalis with her brothers in 2000. As of 2018, she is worth an estimated US$5.6 billion.\n\nBesnier is married. She resides in Laval, Mayenne, France.\n"}
{"id": "32410412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32410412", "title": "Marie Louise Bottineau Baldwin", "text": "Marie Louise Bottineau Baldwin\n\nMarie Louise Bottineau Baldwin (1863-1952), was a Métis Turtle Mountain Band of Chippewa Indians Attorney. In 1914 Baldwin was the first Native American student to graduate from the Washington College of Law. She worked in the United States Bureau of Indian Affairs, and was an officer in the Society of American Indians. \"Her appointment [to the Bureau] ... was approved by President Theodore Roosevelt in 1904. She was an accountant in the Education Division of the Bureau.\"\n\nHer grandparents were Pierre Bottineau and Genevieve \"Jennie\" LaRence, b. 1818; her father was John Bottineau.\n\nMarie Louise was admitted to the bar in 1914, having completed the three years of courses during two years of attending evening classes. She also graduated with highest distinction. The Quarterly Journal of American Indians noted that \"Mrs. Baldwin, who is Treasurer of the Society of American Indians, has offered herself to the War Department for services overseas. She speaks French as fluently as English, and her skill as an accountant will make her valuable to the accounting staff.\n\nA Marie Bottineau Baldwin Scholarship was established by the Washington College of Law student organization.\n\n"}
{"id": "13565155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13565155", "title": "Mikhail Mokretsov", "text": "Mikhail Mokretsov\n\nMikhail Pavlovich Mokretsov () (born February 9, 1961, Udmurt ASSR) is a \nRussian businessman and state official. He has been the Chief of the Federal Tax Service since February 21, 2007.\n\nMikhail Mokretsov graduated the Leningrad Institute of Finance & Economics (currently Saint Petersburg State University of Economics and Finance) in 1984 with a degree in economics.\n\nAfter graduating he served for two years as an officer in the Soviet Army.\n\nIn the years 1986 - 1988 he worked as a Deputy Accountant General at the \"Bolshevik\" plant in Leningrad. The plant was producing high-tech equipment for the Soviet Army.\n\nIn 1989 - 1992 was an Accountant General at \"DAP International\", a company operating in the sphere of international trade.\n\nLater, in 1992 - 1996 worked as a Financial Director in the agricultural company \"Rosagrico\".\n\nFrom 1996 to year 2000 was a Director General of the consulting company \"A&P Audit\", which he also co-owned.\n\nSince year 2000 has been a state official. First, Mr. Mokretsov worked as a Chief of the Control & Inspection Department of the Saint Petersburg Directorate of the Tax Ministry of Russia. Later he was promoted to the position of Deputy Chief of the Saint Petersburg Directorate of the Tax Ministry of Russia.\n\nIn 2004 he moved to Moscow and became the Chief of the Moscow Directorate of the Tax Ministry of Russia. The same year he was later appointed a Chief of the International Cooperation Department of the Tax Ministry of Russia. \n\nOn November 19, 2004 Mokretsov became the Deputy Chief of the Federal Tax Service, which Tax Ministry of Russia was reorganized into.\n\nOn February 21, 2007 he was appointed as the Chief of the Federal Tax Service.\n\nMikhail Mokretsov is famous for his strict policy against tax legislation offenders & is considered to be one of the closest allies of the Defence Minister of the Russian Federation Anatoliy Serdyukov and Prime Minister of Russia Viktor Zubkov.\n\nMikhail Mokretsov is married & has a son named Alexander (born 1984). \n\nIn 2006 Mikhail Mokretsov was given the title of Honoured Economist of the Russian Federation.\n\nOn April 7, 2010 Mikhail Mokretsov was appointed Chief of Staff of Ministry of Defence of the Russian Federation.\n\n"}
{"id": "22805858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22805858", "title": "Mohsen Rafighdoost", "text": "Mohsen Rafighdoost\n\nMohsen Rafighdoost (also Rafiqdoost, ) is an Iranian Revolutionary Guards military officer and politician. He is a member of the Islamic Coalition Party.\n\nRafighdoost's background is that of a \"bazaari\", the traditional class of people who work in the bazaar. His father was a vegetable and fruit merchant at the Tehran bazaar.\n\nMohsen Rafighdoost was the chief of Ruhollah Khomeini's security detail in 1979 during the Iranian Revolution, and helped found the Revolutionary Guards who helped eliminate opposition to theocratic rule in the Islamic Republic.\n\nHe is noted for having driven Ayatollah Ruhollah Khomeini, the leader of the Revolution, from the Tehran international airport into Tehran, during Khomeini's triumphant return to Iran from exile, while millions of Iranians crowded the road to welcome Khomeini back. He has told journalists this was the most important day of his life and \"crowds were all over the car, touching and hanging on to it.\"\n\nHe served from 1982 to 1989 as Minister of the Revolutionary Guards where he quashed internal dissent and obtained weapons from abroad for the Iran–Iraq War.\n\nRafighdoost said in a 2014 interview that he twice suggested to Khomeini that Iran develop weapons of mass destruction to counter their use by Saddam Hussein. Rafighdoost claimed that both times Khomeini rejected the idea, reasoning that it would be against Islam.\n\nWith the election of Ali Akbar Hashemi Rafsanjani he was appointed head of the Mostazafan Foundation or \"Bonyad-e Mostazafen va Janbazan\" (Foundation of the Oppressed), \"the second-largest commercial enterprise\" in Iran behind the state-owned National Iranian Oil Company where he remained until 1999.\n\nSince 1999, Mohsen Rafighdoost has been the Director of the Noor Foundation. The Foundation reportedly owns apartment blocks and \"makes an estimated $200 million importing pharmaceuticals, sugar and construction materials.\"\n\nIn 1995, Mohsen Rafighdoost's brother, Morteza Rafighdoost, was sentenced to ten years imprisonment for a bank fraud. After this, Supreme Leader Ali Khamenei appointed a board of trustees and made the Bonyad-e Mostazafen va Janbazan subject to parliamentary scrutiny.\n\nRafighdoost's personal fortune is said to be worth the equivalent of many millions of dollars. When asked about his personal wealth, Rafighdoost has responded: \"I am just a normal person, with normal wealth, but if Islam is threatened, I will become big again.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "8713092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8713092", "title": "NASCAR Mexico", "text": "NASCAR Mexico\n\nNASCAR Mexico is a joint-venture between NASCAR and OCESA, a Mexican entertainment company, aiming to develop, manage and operate local motorsports events and oversee television distribution, sponsorship and licensing.\n\nThe venture attempts to create marketing programs to increase interest in local NASCAR events as well as NASCAR events in the United States that are televised in Mexico.\n\nNASCAR Mexico had been responsible for the organization of the Corona México 200, a former NASCAR Nationwide Series race at the Autódromo Hermanos Rodríguez in Mexico City.\n\nIt also organizes and sanctions two racing series, the NASCAR PEAK Mexico Series and the NASCAR Mexico T4 Series.\n\nThe series experienced its first fatality on June 14, 2009 when Carlos Pardo was killed in an accident on the final lap. Pardo was declared the winner of the same race he was killed in after he led the final completed lap.\n\n"}
{"id": "23431600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23431600", "title": "Norman Adie", "text": "Norman Adie\n\nNorman Allen Adie (born November 25, 1946) is a former theater owner/operator/developer and confessed Ponzi schemer, presently inmate number 64354-054 in the Federal Detention Center (FDC) in Miami, Florida. Born in Scotland, Adie began his career in London with the Rank Organization and Twentieth Century Fox before moving to the United States to work at Radio City Music Hall.\n\nAdie then founded Screen Arts Corporation and developed his own New York theaters in Times Square and Park Slope, Brooklyn. Adie's decade-long efforts to open a theater in Monroe, New York were delayed by protracted, well-publicized lawsuits and counter-lawsuits resulting from a troubled partnership with One Liberty Properties. \"Monroe 6 Cinemas\" eventually opened in 2008, but went into receivership three years later after Adie failed to pay the mortgage and property taxes. Adie operated the Brooklyn Heights Cinema in Brooklyn, New York, for ten years before selling it in 2011 after misappropriating the theater's finances. Adie opened the Foxmoor 7 Cinemas in Marshalls Creek, Pennsylvania in 2006 only to be evicted in 2009 for failing to pay rent. Adie's plans to open a movie multiplex in Matamoras, Pennsylvania in 2008 never came to fruition and resulted in a $12.7 million judgment against Adie in 2009.\n\nOn November 23, 2010, Adie was arrested and charged with Federal securities and wire fraud. He confessed to the charges in December, 2011 and was sentenced in May, 2012 to 20 months in Federal prison. \n"}
{"id": "45398313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45398313", "title": "Odisha Solar Conference", "text": "Odisha Solar Conference\n\nThe Odisha Solar Conference (OSC) is a conference, the gathering of professionals to develop and promote solar power across Odisha. TiE (The Indus Entrepreneur), Bhubaneswar Chapter and Canyon Consultancy together organizes the Odisha Solar Conference every year to promote and create awareness amongst the local investors about the benefits from the solar industry. The conference is held every year in association with Odisha Electricity Regulatory Commission (OERC), Industrial Promotion & Investment Corporation of Odisha Limited (IPICOL), Grid Corporation of Odisha (GRIDCO) and supported by Ministry of New and Renewable Energy.\n\nThe Odisha Solar Conference have completed its three editions in 2012, 2013, and 2014.\n\nThe Organisers of the Odisha Solar Conference 2012 were Canyon Con, SEMI India & TiE Bhubaneswar.\n\nSEMI India was the Knowledge Partner for the Odisha Solar Conference 2012.\n\n\nThe Organisers of the Odisha Solar Conference 2013 were Canyon Consultancy, SEMI India & TiE Bhubaneswar.\n\nSEMI India was the Knowledge Partner for the Odisha Solar Conference 2013.\n\nNational Solar Mission and State Solar Policies <br>\nRenewable Purchase Obligation (RPO) & Renewable Energy Certificate (REC) Mechanism <br>\nBiomass Solar Hybrid Projects\nSolar Termal and Roof Top Solar PV <br>\nMW Scale Solar Roof-top Project in Twin City (Bhubaneswar-Cuttack) <br>\nMolten Salt based 24X7 Solar Thermal Project <br>\nCase Study of MW Scale Roof Top Solar in Gandhinagar <br>\nCase Study of 2.5kWp Roof Top Project in BJB Nagar, Bhubaneswar - Net Meter \nSolar Funding from National Agencies and International Bi-Lateral Agencies <br>\nRemote Area Electrification through Solar <br>\nGreen CSR (Corporate Social Responsibility) – Solar <br>\nCase Study of a Model Solar Village \n\nThe Organisers of the Odisha Solar Conference 2014 were Canyon Consultancy, SEMI India & TiE Bhubaneswar.\n\nSEMI India was the Knowledge Partner for the Odisha Solar Conference 2014.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5529992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5529992", "title": "Pendulum arbitration", "text": "Pendulum arbitration\n\nPendulum arbitration, otherwise known as final offer arbitration (or \"FOA\"), is a type of interest arbitration in which the arbitrator chooses one of the parties' proposals on each (or perhaps all) disputed issues. For example, in the case of labor collective bargaining, a trade union may demand a wage increase of 7% and the management may offer 3%. The arbitrator's decision has to choose between awarding a 3% or a 7% increase. This procedure is opposed to conventional interest arbitration, in which the parties present evidence and the arbitrator acts as fact-finder and crafts an award. In disputes over labor contracts, this dispute resolution procedure is known to be a common type of contract arbitration. Perhaps the most well-known instance is salary arbitration in Major League Baseball, where a certain class of players may elect to arbitrate their salary instead of accepting their team's salary offer. Final-offer arbitration is widely used to determine public union contracts in the United States, either as a substitute for collective bargaining or as a mechanism to determine the contract when bargaining has failed. \n\nA primary purpose and effect of FOA is to encourage the parties to arrive at a settlement by introducing uncertainty into the arbitration procedure. Parties who fail to compromise during negotiations risk a total loss on some or all arbitrated issues under FOA. This uncertainty is considered a \"cost\" of arbitration that the parties can avoid by settling. By contrast, in conventional arbitration, parties are more likely to call on the arbitrator to decide disputed issues, giving the arbitrator the power to craft a \"reasonable\" award. In addition to promoting settlement, use of FOA leads parties to adopt reasonable positions during the arbitration, because an unreasonable position will almost certainly be rejected in favor of a more reasonable competing proposal. \n\nChile's Secretary of Labor and Social Security José Piñera pioneered the introduction in a national law utilizing this mechanism. In fact, Chile's 1979 Labor Reform mandates pendulum arbitration for special collective bargaining cases. The Chilean law also required the parties to pay the full cost of the arbitrator, another incentive to try to avoid the arbitration and reach bilateral agreements. The law created a register of private arbitrators (economists and lawyers with a solid reputation for expertise and fairness), some or all of whom the parties shall agree to select, to decide conclusively the terms of the contract. There is consensus among experts that this system in Chile has proved very successful, and it has not been disturbed by subsequent governments.\n"}
{"id": "20412567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20412567", "title": "Pete Cashmore", "text": "Pete Cashmore\n\nPete Cashmore (born 18 September 1985) is the CEO and founder of the popular blog Mashable, a Technorati Top 10 blog worldwide. He grew up in Banchory, and founded Mashable in Aberdeenshire, Scotland in 2005 when he was 19.\n\nIn 2009, Cashmore was recognized in \"Inc.\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s \"30 Under 30\", \"Forbes\"<nowiki>'</nowiki> \"Top 25 Web Celebs\", and \"The Huffington Post\"'s \"Top 10 Game Changers 2009\". Cashmore was also named the most influential Briton and most influential Twitter user in the world in 2009 by INQ.\n\nCashmore previously wrote a weekly column on technology and social media for CNN. In 2012, Cashmore made Time magazine's list of the 100 most influential people.\n\nIn 2017, Mashable was sold to Ziff Davis for 50 million dollars, and over 50 staff members were laid off.\n\nIn November of 2018, after his social media profiles were edited to include \"Now: Taking some time off and working on something new,\" it was announced that Cashmore would be leaving Mashable at the end of the year. The general manager of Ziff Davis Tech (Mashable's parent company), Mike Finnerty, confirmed this.\n"}
{"id": "56676228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56676228", "title": "Playbour", "text": "Playbour\n\nPlaybour (sometimes spelled playbor) is a term used to describe a hybrid form of play and labour, specifically in the digital games industry. The term was coined by Julian Kücklich in 2005 in his article \"Precarious playbour: Modders and the digital games industry.\" Kücklich describes playbour as a type of free labour that fits neither traditional definitions of work nor the categories of play or leisure. Nevertheless, forms of playbour are often incorrectly perceived as being just an extension of play. Playbour is also sometimes categorized as a part of the gamification of society in general.\n\nWhile the term playbour itself is a relatively new invention, the phenomena it concerns – those of productive leisure and free labour in the digital games industry – have been around at least since the late 1990s. Kücklich states that since the early 1990s, the relationship between the players of digital games and the digital games industry has changed substantially. He attributes the alteration to the rise of computer game modification, or \"modding\", as a widespread practice among players.\n\nCreating mods for digital games is the perfect example of playbour: a growing number of consumers of digital games are not satisfied with just playing the game, but prefer to enhance their playing experience by creating content for the game themselves. In modding we can see the very essence of playbour, or free labour: while the work of creating a modification can be seen as playful and enjoyable, it is still work. In this respect modding can be fairly similar to another form of collaborative digital production; open-source software development. The first game to gain a modder base of considerable size is widely agreed to be Doom (1993). The emergence of Doom mods is usually attributed to the fact that the game's code was deliberately designed to facilitate player-created content. The most famous modder creation is probably Counter-Strike, originally a team-based mod for Half-Life (1998). It later also became the first commercially released mod.\n\nNot only is modding a big part of gaming culture, but it is also an increasingly important source of value for the digital games industry. Game companies usually retain the intellectual property rights of the modifications. Since players need to have a copy of the original game to run the modifications, mods may add to the shelf-life of the product. In addition to that, mods may help with establishing brands (e.g. Counter-Strike), thus saving companies a significant amount of money. Marketing costs often take up a large percentage of a game's budget, but successfully established brands require less marketing. Mods also increase customer loyalty and are an important source of innovation in the digital games industry. Another way that game companies can benefit from the modding culture is that they can recruit modders as employees who are already trained at no cost to the company.\n\nWhile game companies may benefit economically from playbour, the players doing the work are not entirely uncompensated: they may obtain virtual in-game rewards or social capital such as followers on social media. The experience of play also has value in itself. Playbour is a voluntary activity and players don't usually view modding as labour. Nevertheless, it has been suggested that playboures are exploited by the games industry.\n\n"}
{"id": "24503612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24503612", "title": "Qualtrics", "text": "Qualtrics\n\nQualtrics is a privately held experience management company, with co-headquarters in Provo, Utah and Seattle, Washington, in the United States. The company was founded in 2002 by Scott M. Smith, Ryan Smith, Jared Smith and Stuart Orgill.\n\nQualtrics is a subscription software for collecting and analyzing data for market research, customer satisfaction and loyalty, product and concept testing, employee evaluations and website feedback.\n\nOn November 11, 2018 it was announced that Qualtrics would be acquired by SAP. The acquisition is expected to close in the first half of 2019.\n\nIn 2012, the company received a $70 million investment from Sequoia Capital and Accel Partners, generally considered two of the top venture capital firms in the country. It was the largest joint investment to date by these two firms. In September 2014, Sequoia Capital and Accel Partners returned in Series B funding, led by Insight Venture Partners worth $150 million, a record for a Utah-based company. In April 2017 Qualtrics received a Series C of $180 million by funded by returning investors Accel, Sequoia Capital, and Insight Venture Partners. The Series C was raised at a $2.3 billion pre-money valuation.\n\nOver its lifetime, Qualtrics has raised a total of $400 million from Accel, Insight Venture Partners and Sequoia Capital.\n\nOn October 19, 2018 Qualtrics filed their S-1 registration statement with the intention of raising gross proceeds of $200 million through an Initial Public Offering (IPO) of its Class B shares. The company will list under the NASDAQ under the ticker \"XM\" in reference to their flagship experience management product, the Qualtrics XM Platform.\n\nWhen it was announced in November 2018 Qualtrics would be acquired by SAP (NYSE: SAP) plans for an IPO were scrapped.\n\nIn 2016, Qualtrics was ranked #12 on the Forbes Cloud 100 list, moving to #6 in 2017.\n\nQualtrics reported revenue of $190.6 million in 2016 and $289.9 million in 2017 representing year over year growth of 52%. In 2016, Qualtrics reported an overall net loss of $12 million with free cash flow of $3.4 million. In 2017, Qualtrics reported a $2.6 million net profit with free cash flow of $21.3 million.\n\nIn May 2016 Qualtrics acquired statistical analysis startup Statwing for an undisclosed sum. Statwing was a San Francisco-based company that created point-and-click software for advanced statistical analysis.\n\nIn April 2018 Qualtrics acquired Delighted for an undisclosed sum. Delighted had over 1500 customers at the time of acquisition.\n\nIn June 2018, Tango Card, a digital rewards and incentives provider collaborated with Qualtrics to improve management of digital incentives and distribution of gift cards.\n\nIn November 2018, it was announced that it would be acquired by SAP. SAP will acquire all outstanding shares of Qualtrics for $8 billion USD in an all cash deal. SAP secured €7 billion in financing. At the time it was announced, the Qualtrics acquisition will be SAP's second-biggest purchase ever behind the $8.3 billion acquisition of travel and expense management firm Concur in 2014.\n\nQuantitative statistical analysis performed with Qualtrics is cited in a number of professional and academic journals. Qualtrics became the first employee management platform measuring employee experiences through key metrics powered by predictive intelligence.\n"}
{"id": "24053746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24053746", "title": "Rajasthan Accounts Service", "text": "Rajasthan Accounts Service\n\nRajasthan Accounts Service (R.Ac.S.) is state service of civil services of the Indian state of Rajasthan. The recruitment of officers in this service is made through competitive examination held by Rajasthan Public Service Commission Ajmer on the pattern of Union Public Service Commission New Delhi.\n\nThe examination is conducted annually and is known as Rajasthan State Administrative and Subordinate Services combined competitive examination. The examination is conducted to select officers for Rajasthan Administrative Service, Rajasthan Police Service and Rajasthan Accounts Service and number of other civil services.\n\nInitially a preliminary examination is conducted in which any graduate from any discipline can appear. Those who qualify in preliminary examination take main examination and finally face group discussion and interview. A merit list is prepared and cadre is allotted on the basis of individuals choice and his rank in merit.\n\nThe first posting is as Accounts Officer. After sufficient experience officer is promoted as Senior Accounts Officer Chief Accounts Officer and Financial Advisor respectively. Some officers of outstanding performance get a promotion in Indian Administrative Service.\n\nThe parent department of officers of Rajasthan Accounts Service is Finance Department of Government of Rajasthan, and the officers are governed by Rajasthan Accounts Service Rules 1954.\n\nThe list of officers in this services is as follows:\n\n 14. Suresh Kumar Verma,FA, PWD.\n\nhttp://finance.rajasthan.gov.in/apps/m_apps/ASM/civillist.aspx\n"}
{"id": "43370645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43370645", "title": "Richard A. Jensen", "text": "Richard A. Jensen\n\nRichard Alvin Jensen (July 4, 1934 – November 19, 2014) was an American theologian, author, and the Carlson Professor of Homiletics Emeritus at the Lutheran School of Theology at Chicago.\n\nJensen was born on July 4, 1934, in Fremont, Nebraska. He earned his B.A. \"cum laude\" in philosophy from Dana College in 1956. Jensen attended college with future U.S. Senator from Illinois Paul Simon and was lifelong friends with Simon. Jensen later his B.D. from Wartburg Theological Seminary in 1959, his S.T.M. from Chicago Theological Seminary in 1962, and his Ph.D. from Aquinas Institute of Theology in 1972.\n\nJensen studied in Chicago and wrote his S.T.M.,\"The Covenant in The Deuteronomic and Priestly Traditions\" under Robert J. Marshall. Jensen left Chicago in 1960 to study under Gerhard von Rad and Otto Piper at Princeton Theological Seminary. Jensen left his doctorate program after a year to become a professor and co-found the Mekana Yesus Seminary in Addis Ababa, Ethiopia in 1962. Jensen returned to the United States in 1965 to teach at his alma mater Dana College. He returned to Wartburg Theological Seminary to teach from 1972–1981. He briefly taught at Luther Seminary before leaving academia in 1982 to host the television and radio program, Lutheran Vespers. In 1997, Jensen was invited to become the first Axel Jacob and Gerde Maria Carlson Professor of Homiletics at Lutheran School of Theology at Chicago, a post he held until his retirement in 2002. Richard A. Jensen was also the Dean of the Doctorate of Ministry program sponsored by the Association of Chicago Theological Seminaries in the late 1980s. In 1986, Jensen along with his wife Bonnie, assisted with merging the American Lutheran Church and Lutheran Church in America into the Evangelical Lutheran Church of America.\n\nIn the late 1960s the charismatic movement was causing a controversies in the Lutheran church. Jensen had become a leading scholar on the application of a Lutheran theological understanding of neo-Pentecostalism. Jensen wrote his first book in 1974, \"Touched by the Spirit\", developing a Lutheran perspective on his personal experiences, and attempting to embrace the charismatic movement rather than condemn it. Jensen's research was met some skepticism, but ultimately received positive reception from parish pastors, theologians, and college professors.\n\nAlthough, Jensen's Ph.D was in systematic theology, he developed a story-based preaching technique that emphasized preaching as an oral art of communication rather than written discourse memorized or read to listeners. In 1993, Jensen published \"Thinking in Story\". This was followed by three books that understood the Gospels of Matthew, Mark, and Luke as oral narratives from which the preacher used bibilical narrative to enable the listener to participate more holistically in the stories of Jesus. Jensen further expanded his understanding of preaching to incorporate the use of art and visual images in the sermon and worship experience. This thinking culminated in the book published in 2005, \"Envisioning the Word: The Use of Visual Images in Preaching.\n\nRichard Jensen was married to Bonnie L. Jensen, ELCA Global Mission executive director (retired), they had three children: Doron, Dodi, and Derek. Jensen was also a relative of Moritz Thomsen. A scholar of ancient texts, he could read and write in Hebrew, Greek, and Latin. On November 19, 2014, he died at the age of 80.\n\nWhile in Ethiopia, Jensen and his wife served with fellow Lutheran missionaries Irvin and Jerene Mortenson family, parents of Greg Mortenson. While in Ethiopia they became friends with Luther Youngdahl and the Youngdahl family.\n\nRichard Jensen along with his wife Bonnie, received honorary doctorates from Dana College.\n\n"}
{"id": "3084721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3084721", "title": "Saleh Abdul Aziz Al Rajhi", "text": "Saleh Abdul Aziz Al Rajhi\n\nSheikh Saleh Abdul Aziz Al Rajhi (1921 – February 12, 2011) () was the founder of Al-Rajhi Bank, and the eldest member of the powerful Al Rajhi family, which has consistently reported the most profitable operations amongst all of Saudi Arabia's banking groups.\n\nBeginning in the 1930s, Saleh Al Rajhi set up a foreign exchange agency used by pilgrims traveling to Islam's Holy Cities of Makkah and Madinah. In later years, they were joined by brothers, Sulaiman, Abdullah and Mohammed and diversified their into real estate, trading, construction, manufacturing, etc. although banking and finance remain their primary source of family wealth.\n\nSaleh Al Rajhi's retired in the early 1990s leaving his vast business interests to be managed by his sons and grandsons.\n\n"}
{"id": "30034159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30034159", "title": "Scottish Fair Trade Forum", "text": "Scottish Fair Trade Forum\n\nThe Scottish Fair Trade Forum is a Scottish charitable body that describes its mission as '...to gain Fair Trade Nation status for Scotland.' The Forum continues to promote the inclusion and use of Fair Trade products through involvement in helping individual towns, schools, councils and public bodies throughout the country achieve Fairtrade Status.\n\nAfter the Labour and Liberal Democrat coalition government of the Scottish Parliament engaged in talks with the Welsh Assembly over each country's commitment to the Fair Trade Movement, the Scottish administration publicly committed to the Forum's creation on 27 January 2007. The Forum was officially launched by the Scottish Parliament on 27 October 2007. As Wales reached Fair Trade Nation status in 2008, the Fair Trade Forum aimed to make Scotland the second Fair Trade Nation in the world. This goal was achieved on 25 February 2013 and was celebrated at an event in Perth on 7 September 2013 \n\n\n"}
{"id": "4912205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4912205", "title": "Soldiers' and Sailors' Monument (Cleveland)", "text": "Soldiers' and Sailors' Monument (Cleveland)\n\nThe Cuyahoga County Soldiers' and Sailors' Monument is a monument to Civil War soldiers and sailors from Cuyahoga County, Ohio. Located in the southeast quadrant of Public Square in downtown Cleveland, it opened July 4, 1894. It was designed by architect Levi Scofield (1842–1917), who also created the monument's sculptures. F.F. Schnitzer was the supervising architect who oversaw the creation of the structure. The monument is regularly open to the public free of charge.\n\nThe monument consists of a 125-foot black Quincy granite shaft erected on a square base constructed of rough-hewn granite blocks trimmed in sandstone and housing a memorial building. The shaft divided by six carved bands which list the names of battles in which Cuyahoga soldiers fought and is topped with a bronze statue of the \"Goddess of Liberty\" signifying loyalty to United States. \n\nDesigned by Levi Scofield, a Captain in the 103rd Ohio Volunteer Infantry, the monument consists of an elevated base, surmounted by a column capped with a 15' high a statue of Freedom, defended by the shield of Liberty. He also created the monument's magnificent sculptures. Scofield is also known for his design of the Ohio State Reformatory, located in Mansfield, Ohio and site of the film, The Shawshank Redemption, as well as Cleveland's Schofield Building, known today as The Kimpton Schofield Hotel.\n\nThe larger than life bronzes, viewed in the proper sequence, tell of the war’s deadly progression. The south side features the Navy, as sailors load a giant mortar at the low casualties, 48 hour Battle of Island Number Ten. The bronze features an African American, in one of the first monuments showing blacks and whites fighting side-by-side. Moving counter-clockwise (on purpose. Scofield shows that war is contrary to human nature.) the next bronze is the Artillery. The cannoneers aim and fire, but there are losses – two artillerists have been killed. \n\nOn the north side is Infantry, during a battle at Resaca, GA. where Scofield was present. Of the nine figures, three are dead. The rest have been wounded. Finally, to the west, the Cavalry statue shows all the horrors of war in ferocious, hand-to-hand combat – in frightening realism. The only rebel soldier is shot at point blank range, in a very accurate sculptural portrayal of war.\n\nThe interior provides peace and tranquility. Bronze panels mark the beginning and end of the war, as well as Lincoln’s freeing of the slaves. Another panel shows the names of 100 women of the Northern Ohio Soldiers and Sailors Relief Society. In the corner of the panel sits a Catholic nun, from the Ursuline order, who still run Cleveland’s St. Vincent Charity Medical Center. \n\nInside the memorial building are a series of marble tablets listing 9,000 Civil War veterans that served with Cuyahoga County regiments or were from Cuyahoga County. Also inside the base are four bronze relief sculptures depicting the Soldiers' Aid Society, Emancipation of the Slaves, Beginning of the War in Ohio and the End of the War, as well as busts of Col. James Barnett, Scofield, and several Ohio officers who were killed in action during the war.\n\nRestoration of the monument began October 26, 2008, and was expected to last approximately nine months with a cost $1.5 million. Funds came from federal, state and local governments, veterans' and community groups. Work included cleaning interior and exterior stonework, structural repairs and painting, restoring chandeliers, installing upgraded heating and lighting, repairs to stained glass windows, installing air conditioning and making the monument accessible to disabled visitors. When the marble tablets were created, names were etched with acid, then inked. Over time, the dyes from the ink leached into the marble and discolored it. Workers cleaned each name and restored the marble's original patina. The renovated monument opened June 5, 2010, with $2 million spent on work.\n\nFrom the time of dedication until the 1940s, plantings around the monument depicted 24 army corps badges and 5 badges of Civil War organizations. After construction work finished, volunteer gardeners used over 16,000 plants to recreate the 5 organization badges plus two based on illustrations in the memorial room and one for the Daughters of Union Veterans. The plants cost $6,500 and were specially cultivated for the project. The 24 army badges could not be recreated because of budget constraints.\n\nIn 2011, researchers discovered that the names of 140 black soldiers from the area were omitted from the tablets. The commission overseeing the monument said it will add the names and others they discover through additional research.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19319710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19319710", "title": "Sophia Jansson", "text": "Sophia Jansson\n\nVivica Sophia Jansson (born 1962) is the daughter of cartoonist Lars Jansson and the niece of the famous Finnish writer and painter Tove Jansson. Jansson has worked as a Spanish language teacher, creative/artistic director, chairman, and majority shareholder of Oy Moomin Characters, Ltd, and provided direct oversight together with her father for the 1990 \"Moomin\" animated series.\n\nGrowing up in the center of the collaboration of efforts between her aunt and father, Jansson gained an intimate window into the creative processes behind the \"Moomin\" comic strip series. As Tove's efforts became directed more at writing and the strip's production became more the effort of her father, Jansson became an active help in management of the visual aspects of \"Moomin\" as an intellectual property.\n\nIn 1979, Lars Jansson founded the limited liability company, Oy Moomin Characters, Ltd, now headed by Christer Timgren. According to a 2004 article in the Finnish business magazine \"Talouselämä\", Oy Moomin Characters, Ltd is Finland's most cost-effective business, with some 80 Moomin licences in Finland and almost 300 abroad. It has been listed as among the top Creative Export Companies of Finland in 2007.\n\nSince 1993, Jansson, together with her father, has managed the production of a new series of Moomin strips which Jansson now manages solely.\n\nIn 2006 Jansson took the role of director in the release of the CD, \"Muumipeikko ja Pyrstötähti\".\n\nIn 2008, the rediscovery by Jansson of the manuscript for \"The King in Moominland\" (a TV script written by Tove and Lars in the late 60s) made news as the resulting musical performed at the Åbo Svenska Teater represented the first performance of this \"lost episode\" in decades.\n\nLars Jansson produced both \"Moomin\" strips as well as others including a short strip called \"Sophia\" which he produced for a publication called \"Jaana\" in 1965.\n\nIn May 2003, The Finnish Embassy in London arranged for events to surround the recent translation of Tove Jansson's 1972 \"Sommarboken\", a novel which featured the fictionalized life of the young Sophia on an island. During this event, publishers presented works by Sophia Jansson and Johanna Sinisalo. Jansson was later interviewed in June 2003 by \"The Daily Telegraph\" where she explained the details surrounding the story presented in \"Sommarboken\" and the relationship shared between Jansson and her aunt, Tove Jansson. She would write in more detail about this topic in 2006 in the Scandinavian Review, and again in 2010 for \"The Guardian\", when she explained the nature of her relationship with the rest of the family including her grandmother Signe and Tove's partner, Tuulikki.\n\nJansson has been credited in such books as Tove Jansson's 1989 \"Rent Spel\" and Kate McLoughlin's and Malin Lidström Brock's 2007 \"Tove Jansson Rediscovered\" among others.\n\nJansson has appeared as the host of 1998's short film, \"Haru: The Island of the Solitary, Introduced by Sophia Jansson\". She has also featured in Paul Gravett's 2006 documentary film, \"Moomin's Memoirs,\" presented at the March 2007 Tove Jansson Conference in Oxford.\n\nIn 2001, following the death of her aunt, Jansson went to the UK to help Sort Of Books promote the re-release of a Moomin picture book.\n\nIn June 2004, Jansson was invited by the Consulate General of Finland to the 31st \"Dreams & Visions\" Annual Children's Literature Conference in California. The Consulate sponsored her trip. Here, Jansson represented Finnish children's literature during an engaging lecture and presentation.\n\nIn August 2004, Jansson launched the silver Tove Jansson and Children's Culture collector's coin, receiving the first pressing from Raimo Makkonen, CEO of the Mint of Finland. She served as a judge in the selection of the coin's images, as well as the series of medals that were also issued.\n\nIn 2006 Jansson was invited as a notable speaker for one of the Monthly Luncheons hosted by IWC Helsinki.\n\nIn February 2007 Jansson was invited to speak at the Scandinavia House in New York City.\n\nIn September 2008 Jansson participated as a member of the Committee of Honor in the renowned IBBY World Congress.\n\nJansson participated in the Helsinki Design Week 2008.\n\n"}
{"id": "35590278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35590278", "title": "Sustainable market orientation", "text": "Sustainable market orientation\n\nTraditionally, market orientation (MO) focuses on microenvironment and the functional management of an organisation. However, contemporary organisations have widened their focus to incorporate more roles, functions and emphasis on the macro environment. Firms have been concerned with short run success and often not taken into account the long-run ecological, social and economic effects from their activities. Despite growth in the MO concept, there is still a need to reconceptualise the concept with a greater emphasis on external factors that influence a firm.\n\nSustainable market orientation (SMO) combines the principles of MO with a macro marketing systems management approach, a stakeholder approach to integrated corporate social responsibility and marketing strategy, and the use of the sustainability management concept. SMO will serve to move corporate management beyond the micro economic and functional management prescribed by MO and provide a more comprehensive, stakeholder based approach. Mitchell et al. believe an avenue for the reformulation of MO to create SMO lies in the synthesis of MO, macromarketing, corporate social responsibility (CSR), and sustainable development management concepts.\n\nUnsustainable practices using traditional ideas have a number of consequences with detrimental effects to the external environment. Creative destruction implies destruction is essential for sustained economic growth. Whilst this may be economically beneficial, in many instances it can have overarching negative impacts on the social and ecological environment. Marshall Berman's take on creative destruction identifies that everything is built to be later torn down. This capitalistic approach relates to the idea tragedy of the commons. When firms and individuals only think about their own self-interest as opposed to society as a whole, it will result in over exploitation of finite resources with long term consequences.\n\nThe issues raised in these traditional self-motivated approaches pave the way for a new wave of concepts and theory.\n\nEcological economics promotes preserving natural capital with emphasis on sustainability and sustainable development. The potential negative impacts of creative destruction and tragedy of the commons are central to what ecological economics addresses, specifically the earth's carrying capacity. Self invested firms without sustainable practices no longer have a place in the modern corporate world.\n\nIn terms of marketing, this shift has led to the development of concepts trying to promote and incorporate these ideas see: green marketing, triple bottom line, sustainability marketing, sustainability brand,and CSR. This shift towards adopting sustainable practices is both consumer and company driven. Governments are also looking for more long run approaches towards the achievement of sustainability. The Brundtland Commission or Our Common Future which was published in 1987 from the United Nations World Commission on Environment and Development. It is crucially important to the conceptualisation of SMO and is commonly seen as defining sustainable development. It has been the catalyst for the emergence of work on sustainability. It signaled the surfacing of issues regarding sustaining the environment as critical to international governance.\n\nSMO differentiates from other sustainable business strategies by focusing on the institutional marketing management aspects of the firm and taking a more stakeholder based approach to corporate management. Through the use of sustainable management principles the firm is able to:\n\nTheoretical foundations for SMO have come from three prior sustainable marketing models.\n\n\"Socio-ecological market orientation\" is the first theory that has led to the conceptualisation of SMO. Social and ecological problems that arise from a free market approach could be mitigated by developing a framework of social, political, economic and ecological norms agreed upon corporations and society that govern the marketing based economy. However, it has a focus on corporate environmental marketing management, as opposed to sustainability and this concept relies on government regulation to ensure compliance.\n\nA second, academically popular, approach relates to green corporate marketing strategies and lifecycle ecological management of product and service management. However, this approach, whilst recognising the importance of incorporating environmentally responsible management fails to incorporate social, economic and environmental management aspects that are paramount to sustainable development.\n\nA third approach to sustainable marketing is using a macro marketing approach to sustainable corporate marketing. This criticises the traditional micro and short term economic strategies and its lack of consideration for externalities and costs associated with environmental deterioration. What is fundamental to this approach is that despite company restraints, sustainable marketing practices can improve efficiency within corporations and looks to trade off between commercial and environmental concerns.\n\nMarket orientation has several definitions; Narver and Slater discuss MO in terms of culture and the fundamental characteristics of the organisation. Kohli and Jaworski, 1990 refer to MO as the organisation wide information generation and distribution and the appropriate responses to this information considering current and future customer needs. Key components of MO include market intelligence gathering and synthesis of market information to develop and implement competitive profitable marketing strategies. A market oriented business knows that to maximise its long-run performance it must build and maintain long-running mutually beneficial relationships and be effective in creating sustainable competitive value for their customers.\n\nIt has been noted MO has a need to address the interests of a spectrum of social, political and business (environmental) stakeholders by corporate management. Its current emphasis places internal corporate dynamics as the way to achieve efficiency and profitability. The combination of MO's emphasis on internal corporate dynamics with an added reliance on long-term external social and ecological interactions creates the concept of SMO. SMO allows companies to build on advantages gained through an MO strategy to create a greater alignment of long-term commercial performance with the interests of a wider range of stakeholders. The model of corporate SMO provides for a more comprehensive, stakeholder based approach to corporate management.\n\nAn early version of sustainable marketing was proposed by van Dam and Apeldoorn through the combination of ecological marketing, green marketing and sustainable marketing, resulting in the concept 'environmental marketing'. Furthermore, Kilbourne, McDonagh and Prothero recognised the dilemma of corporate reliance on the dominant social paradigm and micromarketing. A new marketing paradigm in which macromarketing takes the central role was suggested with the emphasis placed upon business embeddedness in social relationships. It was said corporate marketing management should manage economic, social, cultural and environmental considerations, however marketing practitioners focused on green marketing and overlooked these broader social and environmental responsibilities required. This is where macromarketing literature distinguishes MO from SMO. SMO combines the pursuit for economic benefits with the alignment of corporate marketing activity with social and environmental norms and offers a more comprehensive framework for sustainable marketing. The framework is supported by social, environmental and economic responsibilities.\n\nAs early as 1969, Lazer recognised a need to bridge the gap between the profit motive and social responsibility. Orlitzky, Schmidt, and Rynes found corporate social performance and corporate financial performance are interlinked. MO holds little commitment for corporations to meet the social and environmental expectations of society. The importance of the combination of corporate social and economic responsibility with environmental responsibility is accounted for in the SMO model thus providing a more holistic approach to corporate marketing management.\n\nThe MO paradigm guides corporate management with narrow ecological and environmental prescriptions. Sustainable development literature extends MO's parameters with less observance towards the dominant social paradigm and economic performance. In the past conceptualisations of sustainable corporate management and sustainable marketing have often focused on the micromanagement of ecological issues. This only recently has been developed past these views. SMO moves towards corporate marketing meeting market expectations of the responsible application of resources, environmental and social responsibility.\n\nIf a firm applies SMO to their corporate management strategy it offers them a more socially and environmentally responsible business framework for profitable marketing activity to more effectively sustain long term competitiveness and survival. A firm that utilises SMO are hypothesised to gain enhancement of both brand and firm reputation based on the ability for them to have both efficient and competitive products and services. This is also complemented by societal and market recognition of the firm holding superior social and environmental management. The critical driver for these benefits to the firm will be the integration of organisational intelligence systems, innovation and continuous learning that inform and proactive marketing strategy.\nLooking beyond the market place, adopting the SMO perspective will bring forth a greater understanding of societal issues and concerns. Also as SMO becomes a more integrated part of political development, it will highlight potential areas of business risk and areas where new business opportunities may lie. \nSMO is a new systematic approach to marketing management that will ensure value to a diverse range of stakeholders by applying management criteria that will add value and assessing to internationally recognised indicators.\n\nSMO firms will be evaluated at a company, local community, or regional level due to the employment of a macromarketing systems approach.Firms can no longer simply focus on the micro or internal environment of their organisations.\nWhen evaluating SMO both proven MO indicators and sustainable development indicators should be used as a starting point. A firm must have capabilities in intelligence generation, organisation coordination, customer orientation, competitor orientation, responsiveness and profit orientation in response to a range of internal (including employees, investors, customers, and business partners) and external (including special interest groups, local communities, government, regulators, and the media) stakeholders. Alignment of corporate marketing management to recognise sustainable management principles such as sustainable consumption and brand management should also be incorporated when assessing a firm's commitment to SMO.\n\nHult and Tomas have developed further the issue of sustainability, with regards to market orientation. They highlight that in order for an organisation to achieve market-based sustainability they must strategically align themselves with both the consumers wants and needs of a market-orientated product and the interests of the multiple stakeholders concerned about the social responsibility issues involving economic, environmental (ecological), and social dimensions. There is also great emphasis on the importance of the Bruntland Report as the underlying backdrop for both academic and managerial work on sustainability.\n\nSMO is becoming increasingly prevalent in the tourism industry with a shift from economic profit priorities towards sustainability and a sustainable tourism marketing model. The emergence of this shift towards sustainability includes the concept of sustainable development put forward by the Brundtland Commission and the preservation of the environment for future use. The sustainability approach adopts an integrated view of marketing, the consideration of social equity, environmental protection, and economic liveability. This paradigm shift traces the evolution of marketing approaches from a consumer oriented basis towards societal, causal, green, relationship marketing alongside the consideration of the triple bottom line. Empirical research into the practical application of the SMO as a management model in the New Zealand tourism sector \\found alignment of the SMO model alignment in the strategy management of a government conservation agency and tourism SMEs. The researchers recommended replication research and evaluation in other sectors and countries.\n\nAlongside tourism, the forestry industry is adapting to the paradigm shift and moving towards the embodiment of the principles of sustainable forest management. This industry recognises its responsibility to future generations and the environment. There are many other industries that could benefit from sustainable practices demonstrated in the forestry industry.\n\nClimate change is already affecting the agriculture sector.\nThe net effect of climate change on world agriculture is likely to be negative, although some regions and crops will benefit, most will not. Adaptation play a significant role in reducing the climate change negative impact on agriculture and increase benefit from climate change (Easterling 1996). Producers can adapt by changing seeding dates, Dynamic fertilization and irrigation applications, and switching one crop to another according to climate changes\n(Barklacich and Stewart 1995).\n"}
{"id": "46301241", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46301241", "title": "TiE Silicon Valley", "text": "TiE Silicon Valley\n\nTiE Silicon Valley (TiE SV) is the largest and founding chapter of the TiE brand, a non-profit organization dedicated to fostering entrepreneurship. It provides technology entrepreneurs with mentoring services, networking opportunities, startup-related education, funding, and incubating.\n\nTiE SV was founded in 1992 by a group of successful entrepreneurs, corporate executives, and senior professionals with roots in the South Asian or Indus region and was named TiE for \"The Indus Entrepreneurs.\" It has since moved away from that focus and is open and inclusive.\n\nTiE SV received the 2014 Innovation Catalyst Award by VC Taskforce, which recognizes venture community leaders for being catalysts of innovation and entrepreneurship. Past recipients of this award include female venture capitalist Ann Winblad, the Draper family, and Reid Hoffman.\n\nTiE SV is a network of general members, Charter Members, and sponsors.\n\nCharter members are successful, veteran entrepreneurs who are looking to give back and assist the next generation of entrepreneurs by offering their time, knowledge, and resources. As of December 2014, TiE SV has more than 300 Charter members. This membership level is by invitation only. Since inception, this group has created upwards of a quarter trillion dollars of value worldwide.\n\nTiEcon is TiE SV's flagship annual conference. Since 2008, more than 4,000 people attend the conference from over 40 countries. It is widely considered the world's largest conference for entrepreneurs. The conference features two full days of networking and programming with thousands of entrepreneurs, venture capitalists, industry executives, and thought leaders.\n\nEach TiEcon, the world's 50 most promising technology startups are honored as the \"TiE50.\" These companies are selected from more than 1,600 companies screened worldwide. As of 2011, 94% of TiE50 companies had been funded, attracted over $20 billion in investments, and 42 of the companies exited. At TiEcon 2011, Cloudera, the leading provider of Apache Hadoop-based data management software and services, was announced as a TiE50 winner in the software/cloud computing category.\n\nTiEcon was listed by Worth Magazine in their September 2011 issue to be among the 10 Best Conferences for Ideas and Entrepreneurship.\n\nTiE Angels is an early stage Angel investment group formed in 2010 by Charter Members of TiE SV. There are about 100 investors that invest through TiE Angels. There is no TiE SV fund and individuals invest in their personal capacity. TiE Angels was ranked by CB Insights as one of the Top 20 Angel groups in the nation in August 2014.\n\nMost of TiE Angels investments are under $1 million, with a focus on enterprise solutions that leverage the technological expertise of TiE members. In its first year of existence, TiE Angels invested in 11 companies with a total of about $4.5 million. CloudVolumes, which was purchased by VMware in August 2014, was backed by TiE Angels and several individual Angel investors. TiE Angels also backed CRISI Medical which was acquired by BD Medical in March 2015.\n\nTiE LaunchPad is TiE SV's accelerator program for early stage startups. LaunchPad accepts eight companies per batch, and startups are seeded with $50,000 in convertible notes and offered optional working space, infrastructure, and additional support services for a five month duration. Companies also get assistance in fundraising by presenting to TiE's network of investors at a Demo Day at the end of the program. More than 50 Charter members serve as mentors to LaunchPad companies.\n\nThe Billion Dollar Babies Program is an initiative through TiE SV to mentor product companies out of India who are achieving significant domestic traction and wish to scale their products globally. It is managed by BV Jagadeesh, Raju Reddy (founder of Sierra Atlantic), and TiE SV President Venktesh Shukla. The pilot round of this program began January 2015.\n"}
{"id": "6780034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6780034", "title": "Toolbank", "text": "Toolbank\n\nToolBank is a registered term or 'word mark' registered with the U.S. Patent & Trademark Office used to identify the nonprofit tool lending program model created by the Atlanta Community ToolBank. Each ToolBank increases the impact of its local charitable sector by lending tools to organizations for use in the fulfillment of their missions. The available inventory of a typical ToolBank includes tools for landscaping, carpentry, plumbing, masonry as well as power tools, ladders, wheelbarrows, and others. The Atlanta Community ToolBank is currently the largest ToolBank in existence, with over 200 tool types in its lending inventory. The available inventory of the Atlanta Community ToolBank can be found here. Nine ToolBanks are currently lending tools in Atlanta GA, Baltimore MD, Charlotte NC, Cincinnati OH, Houston TX, Phoenix AZ, Portland OR, Richmond VA, and Chicago, IL. The national network of ToolBanks is administered by the parent organization ToolBank USA, which was founded in 2008 to replicate the impact of the Atlanta ToolBank in cities beyond Atlanta. In 2014, ToolBank USA launched ToolBank Disaster Services, a program to deliver tools to communities affected by disaster. ToolBanks loaned $5.8M worth of tools and equipment to charitable organizations in 2015. \n\nThe ToolBank program model differs from the more common tool library model in that ToolBanks loan tools exclusively to other charitable organizations; ToolBank tools are not available to individuals. The ToolBank inventory is designated for the purpose of increasing the impact of the nonprofit sector and less formalized grassroots organizations. Typical borrowers of ToolBank tools include faith-based organizations, public schools, neighborhood organizations, public/private partnerships with community-oriented missions, social clubs with a service mission, gardening clubs, and others. Proof of charitable intent is verified prior to accessing ToolBank tools.\n\nThe ToolBank performs three primary functions:\n\n1. Tool Lending: The ToolBank lends tools of all kinds for use in volunteer projects, facility maintenance and improvement projects, community improvement events, and special events.\n\n2. Tool Advocacy: ToolBank staff advocates for the complete and timely return of all borrowed tools, to guarantee the long-term sustainability of available inventory. Staff also seeks compensation for lost tools and tools returned late.\n\n3. Tool Maintenance: The ToolBank performs routine maintenance and repairs on all equipment to ensure good condition and to extend the lifespan of the inventory. This function is typically performed by volunteers and community service workers.\n\nThrough these three functions, local community organizations may benefit by:\nensuring that all participating volunteers are properly equipped;\nengaging larger volunteer groups;\nperforming a broader scope of service projects;\nengaging more highly skilled volunteers; and\neliminating tool purchase, repair, and storage costs. \n\nToolBank is a registered mark of the Atlanta Community ToolBank. The Atlanta Community ToolBank granted a Right to License to ToolBank USA in 2008. ToolBank USA is a nonprofit organization created in February 2008, charged with the successful nationwide replication of the ToolBank program model. ToolBank USA was launched by a founding grant from The Home Depot Foundation.\n\nThe Atlanta Community ToolBank originated in Atlanta GA as an offshoot of a charitable no-cost home repair program known as Community Reinvestment Inc (CRI), founded in 1990. CRI's tool inventory grew organically as a result of volunteers donating equipment in support of the program. Local neighborhood associations and churches periodically borrowed CRI's tools for their own cleanup days and volunteer events, giving rise to the core concept of the ToolBank. The specific origin of the term ToolBank is unknown; CRI began offering the ToolBank as a formal program in 1992.\n"}
{"id": "4396462", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4396462", "title": "Tripartite Consultation (International Labour Standards) Convention, 1976", "text": "Tripartite Consultation (International Labour Standards) Convention, 1976\n\nThe Tripartite Consultation (International Labour Standards) Convention, 1976, officially the Convention concerning tripartite consultations to promote the implementation of international labour standards is an International Labour Organization Convention, which governs the process for implementation of measures regarding ILO conferences. It requires tripartite consultation before ratification, implementing legislation or denouncement of conventions. As of June 2015, the convention had been ratified by 139 member states. The convention is also known as convention number 144 on the List of International Labour Organization Conventions.\n"}
{"id": "6695244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6695244", "title": "United Artists Theatre Building", "text": "United Artists Theatre Building\n\nThe United Artists Theatre Building is a vacant high-rise tower in downtown Detroit, Michigan, standing at 150 Bagley Avenue. It was built in 1928 and stands 18 stories tall. The building was designed by architect C. Howard Crane in the renaissance revival architectural style, and is made mainly of brick. Until December 29, 1971, it was a first-run movie house and office space, and then after that, the theatre saw sporadic usage until 1973. The United Artists Theatre, designed in a Spanish-Gothic design, sat 2,070 people, and after closing served from 1978 to 1983 as the Detroit Symphony Orchestra's recording theater. After the theater closed, the office block struggled as tenants moved to suburbs. It finally closed in 1984. An original 10-story, vertical UA sign was replaced in the 1950s with a marquee that remained until 2005. The building once shared a lot with the now demolished Hotel Tuller.\n\nIn preparation for the 2006 NFL Super Bowl, graffiti was removed from all the windows of the building, and the lower levels received a coat of black paint to hide the graffiti work at the base of the building. The old theater marquee was also removed.\n\nIn 2006, Ilitch Holdings announced it would market the building. Despite a promotional website created in 2017 and assurances of an intent to redevelop the historically significant structure, Ilitch Holdings has yet to begin any redevelopment. The company has a history of buying historic properties, voicing an intent to redevelop them, and later turning them into parking lots following increased decay.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33637399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33637399", "title": "Usman Boie Kamara", "text": "Usman Boie Kamara\n\nAlhaji Usman Boie Kamara is a Sierra Leonean politician, businessman and mining engineer who has been Minister of Trade and Industry of Sierra Leone since 2013. He previously worked as director of the Sierra Leone National Diamond Mining Company (NDMC).\n\nBorn and raised in Freetown to ethnic Mandingo parents, Usman Boie has a master's degree in mining engineering and Mineral Production management from Imperial College of Science, Technology and Medicine in London.\n\nHis father Mohamed Boie Kamara was a prominent member of the Sierra Leone People's Party (SLPP) and served as the party's treasurer during the late 1960s and early 1970s. Mohamed Boie Kamara was also a close ally of Prime Minister Albert Margai.\n\nUsman Boie Kamara unsuccessfully sought the nomination of the SLPP for the 2012 presidential election, placing second behind former military ruler Julius Maada Bio, who won the SLPP nomination at the party's convention held on 31 July 2011 at the miatta hall in Freetown.\n\nAfter he lost the SLPP nomination to Julius Maada, Usman Boie Kamara defected from the SLPP in June 2012 and joined the ruling APC. He was officially welcomed and given an APC membership card by President Ernest Bai Koroma himself.\n\nUsman Boie is a devout Muslim and a fluent speaker of his native Mandingo language. He is married and has three children.\n\nAlhaji Usman Boie Kamara was born and raised in Freetown, the capital of Sierra Leone to prominent Mandingo parents. Usman Boie grew up in the neighbourhood of Magazine Cut in the East End of Freetown. Usman Boie was raised in a Mandingo family and he is a fluent speaker of the Mandingo language.\n\nUsman Boie's father Mohamed Boie Kamara was a wealthy businessman and a popular member of the Sierra Leone People's Party (SLPP), serving as the treasurer of the party during the 1960s and 1970s. Mohamed Boie Kamara worked closely with other respected SLPP members including Albert Margai, Kande Bureh, Mohamed Sanusi Mustapha, and Alhaji A.B Tejan Jalloh to ensure the SLPP's victory in national and local elections across the country. As a young boy, Usman Boie traveled with his father to attend SLPP meetings, conventions and activities across Sierra Leone. When Prime Minister Albert Margai visited the Madingo Mosque in Freetown in 1965 for Friday prayer, it was Mohamed Boie Kamara who introduced him to the Muslim crowd.\n\nUsman Boie Kamara is a graduate of the Prince of Wales Secondary school in Freetown. He later won a scholarship to study at the Imperial College of Science, Technology and Medicine in London, England. After he successfully completed his master's degree in mining engineering and Mineral Production Management from Imperial College of Science, Technology and Medicine, Usman Boie was employed by the government of Sierra Leone as a mining engineer in Kenema in 1972 under the Ministry of Mines and Mineral Resources. Boie Kamara quickly rose to Assistant Director of Mines, Deputy Director of Mines and finally, Director of Mines in 2008.\n\nUsman Boie was later appointed as general manager of the Sierra Leone National Diamond Mining Company (NDMC), spending three years in the position. Usman Boie's greatest achievement in the position was the development of the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme (KPCS), a scheme designed to distinguish and certify Sierra Leone's rough diamonds from blood diamonds. Usman also acted as a mining consultant to the United Kingdom, Botswana, Zambia and Lesotho.\n\nUsman Boie Kamara unsuccessfully sought the nomination of the SLPP for the 2012 presidential election, placing second behind former military ruler Julius Maada Bio, who won the SLPP nomination at the party's convention held on 31 July 2011 at the miatta hall in Freetown.\n\nAfter losing the election to Julius Maada Bio on 31 July 2011, there were great division among SLPP supporters and within the SLPP party itself. Some SLPP officials, including the SLPP chairman of the Western Area branch Lansana Fadika, the party's young generation leader Blamoh Robert and regional Secretary Alpha Mohamed Alghali resigned from the party in protest at Bio's nomination. Some of Usman Boie's supporters called for him to leave the SLPP and form his own party to challenge President Ernest Bai Koroma.\n\nHowever, on 4 September 2011 Usman Boie delivered a speech in front of 15,000 of his supporters and senior members of the SLPP at the Attouga Stadium in Freetown. In his speech, he called for unity within the SLPP and gave his full support to Maada Bio ahead of the 2012 presidential election. Usman Boie stated that nothing would stop the SLPP from winning the 2012 elections and party members should be focused on how to win the 2012 elections. Osman Boie focused his speech on criticising President Koroma's government.\n\nIn June 2012, Usman Boie Kamara surprisingly defected from the SLPP and joined the ruling APC. He was officially welcomed and given an APC membership card by President Koroma himself.\n\nIn January 2013, Usman Boie Kamara was chosen by President Koroma to serve as Minister of Trade and Industry in his new second term cabinet. He was approved by the Sierra Leone House of Parliament on 15 January 2013 and was sworn in as Minister of Trade and Industry on 16 January 2013 at State House in Freetown.\n\n"}
{"id": "47516330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47516330", "title": "Walter Rathbone Bacon", "text": "Walter Rathbone Bacon\n\nWalter Rathbone Bacon (February 22nd, 1845 - November 14th, 1917) was an American capitalist who organised a system of tramways in Europe. Over his career, Bacon acted as director of Imperial Tramways Company, London Street Tramways Company, Corris Railway Company, Bell Punch Company Ltd., Hull Street Tramways Company, North Metropolitan Tramway Company and Belfast Street Tramways Company. \nIn 1882, in Bordeaux, France, Bacon married Virginia Purdy Barker, the youngest granddaughter of business magnate, Cornelius Vanderbilt. Bacon and his wife spent most of their time abroad, particularly in London and at Netherdale Estate, their Manor house in Turriff, Scotland. However, after the outbreak of World War I travel to Europe became more difficult and the Bacons remained in New York.\n\nWalter, with his brother Edward R. Bacon, a lawyer, acted as president of the Knickerbocker Apartments at 247 Fifth Avenue, where the two lived with Walter's wife. The Knickerbocker apartments, in William B. Duncan's former mansion, were sold to the newly formed gentlemen's club, the Knickerbocker Club. The Knickerbocker club was formed out of the Union Club of the City of New York, by a group of members exasperated with the admittance of younger, less traditional members. Walter was also a member of Racquet and Tennis Club, in New York and The Reform Club, in London.\n\nWalter died in his Fifth Avenue apartment on November 14th, 1917. In 1911, Virginia established the Walter Rathbone Bacon Fellowship at the Smithsonian Institution in memory of her husband.\n"}
{"id": "16310873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16310873", "title": "Wolfgang Dehen", "text": "Wolfgang Dehen\n\nWolfgang Dehen (born 9 February 1954) is the CEO of the Energy Sector of Siemens.\nBorn in Solingen he studied Business Administration at the University of Siegen, Germany.\n"}
