{"id": "1418077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1418077", "title": "2005 in politics", "text": "2005 in politics\n\nThese are some of the notable events relating to politics in 2005.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "799233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=799233", "title": "A. E. Wilder-Smith", "text": "A. E. Wilder-Smith\n\nArthur Ernest Wilder-Smith, FRSC (22 December 1915 – 14 September 1995), more commonly known as A. E. Wilder-Smith, was a British organic chemist, and young Earth creationist.\n\nWilder-Smith earned three doctorates; his first PhD in 1941 in Physical Organic Chemistry from Reading University, England, his second in 1964 in Pharmacology from the University of Geneva, and his third from Eidgenössische Technische Hochschule (Swiss Federal Institute of Technology), Zurich.\n\nAs a chemist, Wilder-Smith joined Imperial Chemical Industries during World War II. Following the war, the University of London made him the Countess of Lisburne Memorial Fellow. Dr. Wilder-Smith accepted an appointment as Director of Research for a Swiss pharmaceutical company. While in Switzerland, the Medical School of the University of Geneva elected him to teach Chemotherapy and Pharmacology, for which he received habilitation, the qualification required for professional appointments to European continental universities.\n\nIn 1957-1958 Wilder-Smith accepted the position of Visiting Assistant Professor at the Medical Center of the University of Illinois. In 1959-1961 he was Visiting Full Professor of Pharmacology at the University of Bergen Medical School in Norway. He returned to the University of Geneva for two years then received an appointment as Full Professor of Pharmacology back at the University of Illinois Medical Center in 1963. As a lecturer, he won three 'Golden Apple' Awards in consecutive years for excellence in education and four awards for best series of senior year lectures.\n\nDr. Wilder-Smith was Professor of Pharmacology for two years at Hacettepe University Medical School, Ankara, Turkey. He served as a NATO consultant for the prevention and treatment of drug abuse.\n\nIn 1949, A. E. Wilder-Smith married Beate (17 September 1928 – 15 January 2015), daughter of Rev. Wilhelm Gottwaldt, of Breslau, Germany. She accompanied him through twenty-three moves of their home and rearing of their four children, Oliver, Petra, Clive, and Einar. Each of their children are also professors in their respective medical fields at international universities.\n\nArthur Wilder-Smith began his education as an atheist. His wife, Beate Wilder-Smith, wrote that Arthur had concluded, \"If a loving God really existed, He surely would not have tolerated all the injustice and suffering evident in the world.\" He became acquainted with General Frost, a devout Christian who challenged Arthur's atheistic worldview. Arthur placed his faith in Christ but continued to struggle intellectually with the difficulties between naturalistic evolution and biblical creation. While studying at Oxford, Arthur became acquainted with C. S. Lewis, a significant influence on Arthur's thought processes and faith.\n\nAs a creationist, Dr. Wilder-Smith said there were problems with evolutionary views of the origin of life. This theme is reflected in many of his books including, \"The Creation of Life\" and \"Man's Origin, Man's Destiny\". According to Walter L. Bradley, Dr. Wilder-Smith contended \"that the conversion of energy flow into information remains, at present, undemonstrated and without theoretical basis.\" Some considered him Europe's leading creationist. He was not afraid to correct creationists when he believed they were wrong as when he made the comment to Francis Arduini in 1984 that Morris \"didn't know a thing about thermodynamics\".\nIn 1966 he published the book \"Herkunft und Zukunft des Menschen\" which promoted Burdick's and other's claims that dinosaur and human footprints existed together at Paluxy River. Wilder-Smith included in his book plates showing the Paluxy site including plates attributed to himself, Burdick and Taylor. With the exception of plate 6 from Burdick all plates claiming to be man tracks were in situ. In the mid-1980s the footprints were shown to be not of human origin, and some specimens were shown to be doctored or carved, in particular the loose blocks attributed to Burdick.\n\nIn 1970, Dr. Wilder-Smith published \"The Creation of Life: A Cybernetic Approach to Evolution\" which defended William Paley's design argument with computer calculations of the improbability of genetic sequences, which he said could not be explained by evolution but required \"the abhorred necessity of divine intelligent activity behind nature,\" and that \"the same problem would be expected to beset the relationship between the designer behind nature and the intelligently designed part of nature known as man.\" His research and writing were influential in the formation of the intelligent design movement. In 2005, intelligent design advocate William A. Dembski wrote that Wilder-Smith's \"intuitive ideas about information has been the impetus for much of my research.\" Wilder-Smith had never used the phrase \"intelligent design\" itself. The closest phrasing may be found in his 1968 publication \"Man’s origin, man’s destiny: a critical survey of the principles of evolution and Christianity\", which with its argument that the mammary glands in whales could not have arisen by chance mutations. Wilder-Smith wrote that (emphasis added) \"To deny planning when studying such a system is to strain credulity more than to ask one to believe in an \"intelligent nipple designer\", who incidentally must have understood hydraulics rather well.\"\n\nIn the 1986 Oxford Union debate, Wilder-Smith and creationist physicist Edgar Andrews (President of the Biblical Creation Society) debated creationism with biologists Richard Dawkins and John Maynard Smith.\n\nWilder-Smith's book \"The Natural Sciences Know Nothing of Evolution\" was published in 1981 by an imprint of Creation-Life Publishing, and reprinted in 1992 by Answers in Genesis. Kenneth Christiansen, Professor of Biology at Grinnell College, reviewed the book stating \"the most fundamental flaw of the book is an apparent confusion or ignorance (it is hard to tell) concerning our present understanding of the evolutionary process.\" He further noted that Wilder-Smith's work disregarded basic literature in the field discussed. In 1998 the book was one of 19 which a public school board in Melvindale, Michigan, voted to purchase for school libraries \"to make sure the district was not supporting the theory of evolution as a fact\". An analysis by the National Center for Science Education described the book as \"religious doctrine in disguise\" promoting the intelligent design argument, with abundant errors typical of creation science, misrepresenting the science of evolution.\n\nWilder-Smith was a Fellow of the Royal Society of Chemistry\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36944245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36944245", "title": "Akan Orthography Committee", "text": "Akan Orthography Committee\n\nThe Akan Orthography Committee (AOC) was founded for the promotion of the Akan language and has since created a standard dialect for Akan.\n\nA standardized writing and orthographic writing system for Akan was completed by the Akan Orthography Committee (AOC) in 1968. Akan languages started to be written down mainly in religious publications by Danish, German and British missionaries during the 17th and 18th centuries. The unified Akan orthography was created during the 1980s.\n\nIn 1978 the Akan Orthography Committee established a common orthography for all of Akan, which is used as the medium of instruction in primary school.\n\nAkan language is studied in major universities in the United States, including Ohio University, Ohio State University, University of Wisconsin–Madison, Harvard University, Boston University, Indiana University, Michigan University, and The University of Florida. Akan has been a regular African language of study in the annual Summer Cooperative African Languages Institute (SCALI) program.\n\n"}
{"id": "1193352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1193352", "title": "Anders Lange", "text": "Anders Lange\n\nAnders Sigurd Lange (5 September 1904 – 18 October 1974) was a Norwegian political organiser, speaker and editor who led his eponymously named political party Anders Lange's Party into parliament in 1973.\n\nEducated as a forestry technician, Lange got involved in politics following his stay in Argentina in the late 1920s. He joined the right-wing Fatherland League organisation upon his return to Norway in 1929, and he became a popular speaker at public rallies. His provocative style however often led to controversies. Although his agitation was chiefly directed against the political left, he also rejected the efforts of the far-right. He left the organisation in 1938 to join \"Landsforeningen Norges Sjøforsvar\", where he agitated for strengthening the Norwegian armed forces and warned against the future world war. He was initially blocked from entering the organised Norwegian resistance during the Second World War, but nonetheless did work to assist resistance members, and he was arrested by the Germans and imprisoned twice.\n\nAfter the war, Lange initially focused on his work as a kennel-owner, as well as to write and publish his own dog-owner's paper. Although he had pledged to not enter politics again, he became increasingly politically active. He started touring the country to speak at his public rallies, and the paper he published became increasingly political. He was a charismatic right-wing public speaker who first and foremost objected to high taxes, state-regulations and public bureaucracy. He gained a considerable following among youth in the 1960s, and their activities included to counter-demonstrate against left-wing demonstrations. Increasingly called upon by his supporters to establish a new political party, it was not until 1973 that he finally agreed to do so. The new party, named Anders Lange's Party (ALP) was founded by popular acclamation during a public meeting at \"Saga kino\". He successfully entered the Norwegian Parliament after the election later the same year, but his new-found political career came to an abrupt end when he died the following year. Lange's political party was reformed and renamed to the Progress Party after his death.\n\nAnders Sigurd Lange was born in Nordstrand, Aker (now a part of Oslo) to doctor Alf Lange (1869–1929) and Anna Elisabeth Svensson (1873–1955). He had two older siblings, Alexander and Karen. Although he was born in Aker, the family moved to Foss in Bjelland when he was only six weeks old, owing to his father being appointed district physician for a region consisting of Bjelland, Grindheim and Åseral. The Lange family was originally from Holstein and Denmark, and included several prominent public officials, priests, doctors and businessmen. Lange lived in Foss for his first seven years. Lange's parents were divorced in 1911, and Anna Elisabeth moved to Bergen with her three children. They lived in humble conditions in a guest house in Fjøsanger for the first two to three years. The family thereafter moved to Kristiania (now named Oslo), settling in Skillebekk.\nLange started his secondary education at Vestheim School in 1921, but failed to graduate examen artium. He subsequently moved to Kristiansand in 1923, and finished his education at Kristiansand Cathedral School in 1924. He was not interested in politics in his youth, spending his free time in outdoor recreation and sports. In Kristiania (Oslo), Lange had played football and hockey for the club Mercantile SFK, and he continued to play football for FK Donn in Kristiansand. He broke his nose several times during play, giving him his characteristic crooked nose. Lange held his first public speech (albeit a short one), the Kristiansand russ speech, on 17 May 1924 in honour of Henrik Wergeland. He thereafter served in the Royal Guards for his conscription service.\n\nDuring his time in the military, Lange became interested in forestry after reading the 1923 book \"Skogen og folket\" by Christian Gierløff. He graduated as a forestry technician at the Oddernes forestry school in 1926. He had part of his practice in Andebu, and after graduating he continued working there for a local farmer. A cousin of his father later tipped him that he could get work at a forestry school in Argentina, and Lange set out for the country in 1927. He went to port in Buenos Aires, got in connection with Kristiansand-based Norwegians, and travelled north to Tartagal near the border to Paraguay. He became engaged with the Saco company, and headed a work team of 15 men. Lange had also brought with him football equipment to the country, and he became known by the locals as \"Don André\". Lange lived in Argentina from November 1927 to June 1929, when he went home with his father's casket, his father having died of a heart attack when visiting Lange at his office in Argentina.\n\nLange began his political career in the Norwegian right-wing Fatherland League organisation, which had been founded in 1925 by prominent figures such as Christian Michelsen and Fridtjof Nansen. Lange received a letter from writer Olaf Benneche, supplemented with a letter from Nansen requesting him to come back to Norway and join the anti-communist movement, and he was invited to Nansen's property Polhøiden. According to Lange himself, it was communism that shaped his views. He had read about communism since his youth, and concluded that it was a \"poison\" that would destroy humans, take away their liberties and relinquish the independence of nations. Lange had also noted the stark political conflicts in Argentina during his stay in the country. His experience as an emigrant had led him to debunk what he saw as the left's negative view of patriotism (\"fedrelandskjærlighet\"). The growth of the left-wing labour movement at the same time caused a polarisation of Norwegian politics, and the Fatherland League's stated aim was to unite the political right against left-wing revolutionaries. Lange became secretary of the Fatherland League's Agder branch in 1929, and marked himself in the first year by writing op-eds in newspapers and speaking at public rallies.\nIn early 1933, when Vidkun Quisling was Defence Minister, Lange was scheduled to host him at a public rally that was endorsed by the Agrarian Party (of which Quisling was a member at the time). The event led Lange to get a complete distaste of him. Lange was set to drive Quisling to the rally, and already when they met Lange noted that Quisling seemed \"as distracted as a St. Bernard,\" and that his handshake was \"as limp as a sponge.\" Quisling did reportedly not say a single word during the five-mile drive to the rally, and his speech was a disaster due to his failure to speak audibly (he would not use a microphone). At the Fatherland League's subsequent national convention in 1933, a faction sought to tie the organisation closer to Quisling's then-newly founded party, but Lange loudly opposed the proposal and attacked Quisling as \"the worst Defence Minister this country has ever had.\" Quisling left the Fatherland League following the convention. Although accused by the left of fascism, Lange distanced himself from the ideology, and instead considered it to \"live on\" through socialism and trade unions.\n\nLange's later activities consisted mainly of holding public rallies, and his provocative style often got him into physical altercations with left-wing labour activists. His most controversial stunt was in 1935, when he sought to \"demonstrate\" the Labour Party's attitude towards the existing society. Inspired by an earlier stunt of the Labour Party's youth organisation (AUF), Lange demonstratively stood above a volunteer soaked in pig's blood, lying over a truck, and \"threatening\" him with a hammer. The stunt led to clashes with AUF activists (Lange eventually broke his jaw), and as Lange's stunt had not been approved by neither the Fatherland League's local branch nor its central leadership, Lange was transferred to Oslo. He then held the position as national leader of the Fatherland League's youth organisation from 1935 to 1936. Lange was considered a great speaker, and his rhetoric changed between being largely gentle or more vulgar. During a 1935 speech, Lange warned against both socialism and Nazism, often alleging the \"dictatorial tendencies\" he saw in the Labour Party. He in turn criticised Norway for being \"ripe for dictatorship,\" owing to Norwegians having \"stopped thinking\" and uncritically accepted \"supervisory boards, editorials, propaganda and dozy parliamentarians.\" Lange travelled through most of the country to hold speeches, including Northern Norway.\n\nLange left the Fatherland League at the end of 1938, and joined \"Landsforeningen Norges Sjøforsvar\" (\"Country Confederation for the Naval Defense of Norway\") as its general secretary. The organisation's purpose was to inform about the importance for Norway of the sea, and thus of the Norwegian navy. Lange continued to travel around the country in order to show films and hold speeches. He agitated for strengthening the Norwegian Armed Forces, and increasingly warned against a possible world war, and how Norway could be pulled into it. Lange was dejected that the authorities did not take him seriously, and left-wing activists continued to disturb his meetings. He showed up at the last meeting of the organisation on 6 or 7 April 1940 with a Krag-Jørgensen rifle, telling the audience to \"get ready for war,\" and asking rhetorically when Norway would arm its forces. Lange travelled to the Norwegian Parliament on 8 April 1940, and begged Labour Party MP Torvald Haavardstad to mobilise the Norwegian army. Haavardstad in turn responded that Lange should quit \"this hysterical defence talk.\"\n\nOn 9 April 1940, Norway was invaded by Nazi Germany. Part of the background for Lange's predictions about the future war was the letters he sent to several foreign heads of state, including Winston Churchill and Adolf Hitler. He asked in a letter what Hitler's plans were with his \"Third Reich\", and received response from German authorities that \"Nazi Germany will triumph on all fronts.\" Lange had several Jewish friends, and considered their situation to be under such threat in 1939/40 that he thought they should escape before a German invasion of Norway. He managed to reserve 100 seats on the Norwegian America Line for Jews to escape, but none of the seats were taken. Lange and several of his friends from the Fatherland League were eager to join the resistance forces of the Norwegian Campaign, and they set out to Nordmarka on skis on 10 April. Lange had with him a machine gun and 1,000 bullets, but was forced to turn his weapon in when they met other resistance members. He was considered to be \"not reliable\" on account of his time in the Fatherland League, and he was left to ski back to Oslo. Lange became dejected and bitter as a result of his treatment, and he was left to think that the Labour Party, which he had criticised for not arming the defence before the invasion, had now also taken over control of Nordmarka.\n\nLange was imprisoned at Møllergata 19 in September 1940 for getting into a fight at Theatercaféen with Eyvind Mehle, an associate of Vidkun Quisling. The incident happened the day after Mehle had attacked King Haakon VII in a speech. Lange refused to greet Mehle when he came past his table, responding that \"I don't greet Norway's greatest turd in another way than this,\" and then slapped Mehle in the face. Lange thereafter grabbed Mehle and threw him through a door twice. Lange refused to apologise to Mehle, and was captured by German police the following day. Lange was imprisoned for four months, and was released in early 1941. His house was searched several times by the Gestapo when he was in prison. On other occasions, Lange and his family also hid Norwegians who planned to escape to Sweden in their house. Following his release from prison, Lange assisted resistance members with information work. He thus came under investigation by the police, as he was \"known for being an opponent of NS.\" In 1942 he was captured and imprisoned once more at Møllergata 19 after his house was raided by German police. It was during his times in prison that Lange started thinking seriously about practical politics. He was according to himself not tortured or abused in prison, but to his satisfaction he was left alone to just read books and think.\n\nFor the 1945 parliamentary election, Lange was offered to run for election by the Conservative Party, the Agrarian Party and the Labour Party, but he turned the offers down. Lange instead started working as the secretary of \"Norsk Kennel Klubb\", a Norwegian dog-owner's club. He was also hired as a columnist in \"Morgenbladet\", writing about the dog community every Monday. Lange moved to Svartskog, Oppegård with his family in late 1946, where he started working to establish a kennel. He thereafter quit his engagement for \"Morgenbladet\" as he started his own paper instead, \"Hundeavisen\" (lit. \"dog paper\"). At the time, there were no independent publications such as this for the dog community, and Lange went to great lengths to spread news about his paper. He (helped by his family) sent about 75,000 letters to dog owners, institutions and dog associations throughout the country, informing them about the new paper. The first issue was published in June 1948. He maintained that politics were to be \"banished\" from the paper, except for issues directly related to the dog community; he thus criticised the tax on dog-keeping, and the ban on dogs in Oslo tenements.\n\nAlthough Lange had promised to quit politics after the war, he sought to restart the Country Confederation for the Naval Defense of Norway by late 1947. He thought that the Labour Party government had returned to the pre-war negligence of the Norwegian defence, and that it was a \"tactic\" by the \"communists\" in order to allow the Soviet Union to grow itself stronger. His attempt to start the organisation again did however not materialise. Instead of this, one of the main issues for Lange until the early 1950s was to agitate for animal rights. This in turn led him back to his earlier issues of criticising bureaucracy, state capitalism and socialism. He arranged a public meeting at Youngstorget for the first time in 1950, and was thereafter sponsored by an anonymous group to hold one hundred political speeches throughout the country. One time he gathered a crowd of 19,000 people on Youngstorget, who started chanting \"Anders Lange, Norway needs you, Norway needs you.\" Lange himself was rather startled by the event, as he thought it recollected pre-war personality cults. He stopped touring in 1953 due to financial problems. He also stopped publishing the paper \"Hundeavisen\" in September 1953, as one of his associates had embezzled from the paper's funding. Although Lange got most of the money back, the paper was not published for seven years.\n\nLange had great oratory talents, and he liked to consider himself a \"demagogue\" in the ancient Greek sense of the word. Lange planned a massive campaign with public speeches after the 1953 parliamentary election, but he was not able to raise the necessary funding. He largely stopped his political activities until 1959, when he again planned speeches at Youngstorget. Lange was often encouraged to start a political party during the 1950s, but he did not endorse the idea then. Although Lange kept contacts with all kinds of people, it was his contacts with businessmen and ship-owners that provided him with funds to keep up his political activities. During the 1960s, Lange was an immensely popular lecturer at secondary schools. He gained a considerable following among youth, and his followers were popularly called \"hundeguttene\", the \"dog boys.\" They were often from the right-wing of the Young Conservatives, and they joined Lange for counter-demonstrations against meetings of the Socialist People's Party, May Day demonstrations, and protests against the Vietnam War.\n\nIn February 1960 the first issue of \"Hundeavisen\" was published after seven years. The paper, which originally was about dogs and animals, soon took a radical turn. The name of the paper was changed to \"Anders Langes Avis\" (Anders Lange's Newspaper) in 1962, and it gradually became increasingly political. In its last years it had turned into a solely political paper. In 1961 Lange founded the \"Independence Party\", but he did not register it publicly. Some of the issues for the \"party\" was to abolish direct taxes, sell state-owned companies, drastic cuts in public expenses, delegate tasks away from municipalities to the state, abandon the welfare system and cover it over the state budget, and revoke public employees' right to vote and run for parliament. The party held a counter-demonstration against a demonstration against the Bay of Pigs Invasion in Oslo in November 1962, and they handed out flyers in support of US President John F. Kennedy. The party changed name several times, to the \"Independence Movement\" in 1963, to the \"Freedom Party\" in 1965, and a few months later to \"Anders Lange's Freedom Movement.\"\n\nBy the end of 1972 Lange felt a growing support for his views, and he was again asked to start a new political party. He nonetheless questioned if he had become too old, and he initially rejected the idea. Towards 1973 he however increasingly felt a revival of the time from the Fatherland League, and he became sufficiently inspired to start seriously discuss creating a new party. On 8 April 1973, Lange held a public meeting at the cinema \"Saga kino\", which eventually turned into the founding meeting of a new party. Norwegian politics was in turmoil at the time, with voters disaffected six months after the Norwegian EC membership referendum and generally disgruntled with the mainstream centre-right as a viable alternative to the Labour Party. Lange held a two-hour speech at \"Saga kino\", which resulted in the establishment of Anders Lange's Party for a Strong Reduction in Taxes, Duties and Public Intervention; usually shortened to Anders Lange's Party (ALP). The issues promoted before the meeting concerned taxes, regulations, alcohol policies, private property, reduction in foreign aid as well as the political leadership.\n\nLange thereafter again started touring and speaking at public rallies; he did not use a manuscript for his speeches. On 5 May, a crowd of 5,000 people turned up at Youngstorget to listen to Lange and his Danish counterpart Mogens Glistrup. On his first appearance in a political television debate, Lange showed up with a bottle of egg liqueur and a Viking sword he had received from Geirr Tveitt, and his appearance in the debate became a success. Lange was not a big drinker, but he used egg liqueur during speeches to clear his throat. His use of the drink nonetheless led sales of Advocaat to soar. Lange finally entered the Norwegian Parliament after the 1973 parliamentary election, together with three other representatives from his party. Lange set a record of speeches during his first year in parliament, speaking more than any other representative. He was elected into the Consumer and Administration Committee, which he dismissed as a redundant entity. During his time in parliament he came on good terms with politicians from all parties. Lange said he only felt hostility from Kåre Willoch, leader of the Conservative Party, whose presence he considered to \"fill the room with hate;\" Willoch had expressed little respect for Lange before the 1973 election, labeling him as a \"mad-man\" and agitator without visions.\n\nLange had originally intended to create a popular movement rather than a political party, and an internal conflict erupted over the nature of the party. Lange favoured the superiority of the parliamentary group instead of the party organisation. The wing led by Carl I. Hagen and Kristoffer Almås wanted a more effective party structure, and even wished to throw Lange as leader and change the party's name. After increasing pressure, during the party's first regular national convention in Hjelmeland in January 1974, Lange and his deputy Erik Gjems-Onstad were forced to give concessions that gave ALP the outlines of a regular party. Lange however continued voicing his opposition against the new development, while Hagen and Almås maintained their views on the leadership and naming issues. After initially indicating that he would grant Hagen his wish of being hired as party secretary, Lange later stated in \"Dagbladet\" that Hagen only would be hired \"over my dead body.\" The conflict led Hagen and Almås to leave ALP in July, and Almås went on to form the Reform Party with Hagen as a passive member. The conflict was not resolved until October 1974, when Anders Lange died of heart failure following a heart attack. As Hagen had been elected as Lange's parliamentary deputy in 1973 he took over Lange's place as member of parliament.\n\nHagen later became leader of the party and reformed it as the Progress Party. As the party had grown to become the second largest in Norway, an oil painting portraying Lange was in 2005 put up and unveiled in the big conference room in the Norwegian parliament by Hagen and future leader Siv Jensen.\n\nLange supported the economic policies of Milton Friedman. When questioned in 1973 about who his \"favourite hero\" was, Lange responded Ayn Rand. He also said that his motto was \"stand on your own feet, and not on others'.\" Lange voted in favour of the European Economic Community (mostly for military reasons), but he was satisfied that Norway did not join it following the 1972 referendum. This was as he expressed concern that the EEC would likely develop into a massive bureaucracy, and that France in his mind probably would misuse it due to the French \"need to dominate.\"\n\nGuttorm Hansen, who was the President of the Parliament of Norway when Lange was a Member of Parliament, once said that he believed Lange's apparent goal was to \"make [Parliament] into a political circus with himself as the main clown.\" Lange said many unexpected things in Parliament. He once bragged about his own potency, and another time spoke about how much moonshine he had consumed in his lifetime, and how terrible it was. He was also censored for the use of unparliamentary language.\n\nAnders Lange wrote in 1963: \"Everyone who claims black majority rule in South Africa are traitors of the white race\".\nMeans Lange was a racist: Quotes (Lange): No vote rights for negroes; Stop mixed marriages, No humanitarian aid for blacks.\n\nStarting in 1962, Lange began promoting South Africa and Rhodesia in his paper. One of his main motivations was fears that the countries would turn communist, and he was critical of what he considered to be a one-sided and biased presentation of the conditions in the countries. He also had several Norwegian friends in South Africa who traded and did business in the country, and who also considered information about the country in Norway to be naïve and one-sided. Lange said that he received his information about the countries from numerous Norwegian, American and African magazines.\n\nLange was on several occasions visited by South Africans in Norway, both friends of Norwegian ancestry and people with central positions in the country, including General Charles Edward More. Lange and his wife Karin visited the country in early 1972 for three weeks, the trip having been arranged by long-time family friend Major John M. Gray. Their flight was welcomed by government representatives at an airport 50 kilometers outside Pretoria, and he met with prominent figures such as head of the Department of Information Eschel Rhoodie. He also met the leader of the Progressive Party, a party Lange praised for being the purest capitalist party in the world. He was also impressed with what he saw in the country, including the Bantu chiefs he met. Lange also advocated that Norway should recognize Ian Smith's Rhodesia, an internationally unrecognized state. He wrote to Smith that \"Anders Langes Avis\" was the only paper in Norway that consistently supported his regime and sent issues of his paper to the Rhodesian Department of External Services. In response his paper received greetings and thanks from Smith and Rhodesian government officials.\n\nIn March 1979 as part of the Muldergate Scandal, the British newspaper \"The Guardian\" wrote that Lange and ALP had received 180,000 NOK from a secret South African fund. In December 1981, Gordon Winther claimed that ALP and Lange had received about 400,000 NOK since 1972. People who had been close to Lange however rejected that he had received money from the South African government. In a letter from 1967, Lange however notes that he would be delighted if he would get funds from South Africa (which he in any event had not received by that time), while another anonymous person who had been close to Lange claimed that he did indeed receive money, even to the point that it saved him from financial ruin.\n\nLange married Anne-Marie Bach-Evensen (1906–1967) in 1930. They had exchanged letters when Lange was in Argentina, and became a couple soon after his return to Kristiansand, where she lived. They had three children. Anne-Marie got diabetes right before the German invasion, and she became very ill. This left Lange with more responsibilities of keeping in charge of their house and children. Although the family was poorly off itself during the war, they regularly invited homeless people into their house for oatmeal soup. Lange and his family moved to a farm in Tomter, Østfold, where they rented a house from October 1941 to 1946. During the war, Lange was hired as forest manager for the Løvenskiold family, and worked at their estate for two years.\n\nFrederik Macody Lund, who had died in 1943, had long considered Lange to be his \"adoptive son\" as he had no children himself. As his first wife Augusta died in 1946, Lange inherited Svartskog in Oppegård, an 80 decare forest property. There, he established a kennel which he named \" Minde-Vildmark\", in honour of his late patron. In 1949 Lange however started seeing his neighbours' 21-year-old nanny. He filed for divorce from his wife Anne-Marie at the end of 1950, and the divorce was finalised on 18 February 1952. Lange thus moved from Svartskog, leaving it to Anne-Marie, and planned to marry his new girlfriend. They were engaged in 1951, but the relationship fast broke apart. Lange thereafter met Karin Thurmann-Moe (1927–1978), and they married on 17 June 1952, just two months after they first met. They had one child. In late 1952 Lange bought a 22 decare farm with a kennel, Trollstein in Heggedal, Asker. He received financial support to buy the property from a circle around the libertarian organisation Libertas. In addition to dogs, they had geese, hens, cows and pigs at Trollstein, and they grew potatoes and vegetables for their own use.\n\nIn January 1972, Lange unsuccessfully sought appointment as the broadcast manager of the Norwegian Broadcasting Corporation.\n\nAnders Lange died of heart failure at Bærum Hospital on 18 October 1974, following a heart attack at Asker Station on 10 October.\n\nLange was the author and editor of some publications:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37151", "title": "Association for the Taxation of Financial Transactions and for Citizens' Action", "text": "Association for the Taxation of Financial Transactions and for Citizens' Action\n\nThe Association pour la Taxation des Transactions financières et pour l'Action Citoyenne (Association for the Taxation of financial Transactions and Citizen's Action, ATTAC) is an activist organisation originally created for promoting the establishment of a tax on foreign exchange transactions.\n\nOriginally called \"Action for a Tobin Tax to Assist the Citizen\", ATTAC was a single-issue movement demanding the introduction of the so-called Tobin tax on currency speculation. ATTAC has enlarged its scope to a wide range of issues related to globalisation, and monitoring the decisions of the World Trade Organization (WTO), the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD,) and the International Monetary Fund (IMF). ATTAC representatives attend the meetings of the G8 with the goal of influencing policymakers' decisions. Attac spokesmen recently criticised Germany for what it called the criminalisation of anti-G8 groups.\n\nAt the founding, ATTAC had specific statutory objectives based on the promotion of the Tobin tax. For example, ATTAC Luxembourg specifies in article 1 of its statutes that it \n\"aims to produce and communicate information, and to promote and carry out activities of all kinds for the recapture, by the citizens, of the power that the financial sector has on all aspects of political, economic, social and cultural life throughout the world. Such means include the taxation of transactions in foreign exchange markets (Tobin tax).\"\n\nATTAC refutes claims that it is an anti-globalisation movement, but it criticises the neoliberal ideology that it sees as dominating economic globalisation. It supports those globalisation policies that their representatives characterise as sustainable and socially just. One of ATTAC's slogans is \"The World is not for sale\", denouncing the \"merchandisation\" of society. Another slogan is \"Another world is possible\", pointing to an alternative globalisation in which people and not profit is in focus.\n\nAttac was founded to promote the Tobin tax by the Keynesian economist James Tobin. Tobin has said that Attac has misused his name. He says he has nothing in common with their goals and supports free trade — \"everything that these movements are attacking. They're misusing my name.\" \n\nIn December 1997, Ignacio Ramonet wrote in \"Le Monde diplomatique\" an editorial in which he advocated the establishment of the Tobin tax and the creation of an organisation to pressure governments around the world to introduce the tax. ATTAC was created on June 3, 1998, during a constitutive assembly in France. While it was founded in France it now exists in over forty countries around the world. In France, politicians from the left are members of the association. In Luxembourg, Francois Bausch of the left Green party is the founding politician in the association's initial member list.\n\nATTAC functions on a principle of decentralisation: local associations organise meetings, conferences, and compose documents that become counter-arguments to the perceived neoliberal discourse. ATTAC aims to formalise the possibility of an alternative to the neoliberal society that is currently required of globalisation. ATTAC aspires to be a movement of popular education.\n\nCommunist Juhani Lohikoski, previously a chairman of Communist Youth League and Socialist League, served as the chairman of Finnish Attac for two terms (2002 - 2004). Yrjö Hakanen, chairman of the Communist Party of Finland, was a member of the board and a member of the founding committee. In March 2002 Aimo Kairamo, the long-time chief editor of the party organ of the Social Democrat Party, resigned from Attac and recommended the same decision for other social democrats because of the left-wing minority communists' leading positions. Soon also the social democrat foreign minister Erkki Tuomioja considered to follow Kairamo's example.\n\nResearcher Malin Gawell covers the birth and development of Attac Sweden in her doctoral thesis on activist entrepreneurship. She suggests that Attac in Sweden was formed by people seeking a new way of organising with flat hierarchy, and with the strongly sensed need of making a change as the driving force.\n\nFrom another perspective, Sydsvenskan newspaper suggested that the downturn of memberships in Swedish Attac after the hype in the beginning of 2001 may be due to its views on trade policies.\n\nThe main issues covered by ATTAC today are:\n\nIn France, ATTAC associates with many other left-wing causes.\n\nIn the year 2008 Attac Switzerland was hit by a scandal which was later called Nestlégate by the local media. Between the years 2003 and 2005, the Swiss multinational food and beverage company Nestlé, engaged the external Security company Securitas AG, to spy on the Swiss Attac branch. Nestlé started the monitoring, when Attac Switzerland decided to work on a critical book about Nestlé.\n\nDue to Nestlégate, Attac Switzerland filed a lawsuit against Nestlé which was decided in favour of Attac in January 2013, as the personal rights of the observed were violated. They received a compensation for damages of 3'000 Swiss francs each, which has an equivalent of about 3'230 USD at the date of the proclamation of sentence.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49165378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49165378", "title": "Auroville Village Action Group (AVAG)", "text": "Auroville Village Action Group (AVAG)\n\nThe Auroville Village Action Group (AVAG) is a non-governmental organization based in Irumbai which is situated close to Auroville in the Villupuram district, located in Tamil Nadu, India. It is committed to grass roots community building together with the local villages in the Villupuram district on different development areas, namely community development, economic development, capacity building, and psychosocial support. In all those four areas, the ultimate goal is to \"realize the inherent capability of human beings for self-empowerment [and to] provide the proper resources to build a healthy life\".\nFounded in 1983, it nowadays incorporates micro finance projects, capacity building trainings and seminars, psychological and physical health initiatives, livelihood trainings and social enterprise trainings, caste integration exchange programs, and exposure field trips.\n\nAVAG collaborates with all sectors of society to bring about a holistic and participatory village transformation where the villagers are the main acting force. AVAG sees its main role as enabling the beneficiaries to become more self-empowered. It places relationships between human beings and their behaviors, traditions and prejudices at the foundation of its programs and work with villagers, following the central goal of gender and cast equality. Solidarity and cooperation are also important values to AVAG.\n\nIn July 2000, the Auroville Village Action Trust developed out of AVAG's diverse activities in order to them better. Since then, AVAG is a part of this trust. Five trustees from Auroville oversee the running of the organization and ensure that it operates according to its statutes. They are made up out of three executives and the two directors Anbu and Moris – a wife and husband team of professional social workers, who have been responsible for AVAG activities and organizational development since 1988.\n\nField work is carried out by a team of 6 development workers who themselves come from Vanur block and are deeply familiar with the ground realities. They receive special training and are often the direct link between the trustees and direct beneficiaries. Additionally, 2 vocational trainers and a team of 8 support staff make up the rest of the AVAG team. AVAG regularly hosts students, interns and volunteers from abroad who assist in all aspects of programs delivery.\nThe immediate beneficiaries are the members of the women and men self-help groups (SHGs), who usually meet twice a month to discuss loans and personal issues or to receive training. Every SHG elects an animator and two representatives each month.\n\nTo combat gender inequity, poverty and limited access to resources for development, AVAG executes a multifaceted community development program, executed through a structure of nearly 300 SHGs and Federations, with around 4500 women and 600 men, which promote micro credit, community service, social enterprise development and education. Psychosocial support and capacity building are usually given by AVAG to the federation members and self-help group members in addition.\n\nActivities that fall under this category are those that improve infrastructure, get access to resources and analyze and challenge long held assumptions on various social issues such as patriarchal and caste systems.\n\nMembers of different villages and castes spend a day together to break down traditional barriers of gender, caste, social status, and geographic isolation.\n\nAVAG partners with villagers to make small, one-time investments to support the self-help groups in planning and submitting solutions for minor physical infrastructure problems in their rural communities.\n\nAVAG seeks to empower members by helping them understand and access resources provided by government schemes, including Life Insurance coverage, pension schemes and scholarships for students in grades 9th-12th.\n\nCamps are organized by the SHGs to improve access to healthcare services for poorest members, spread awareness about menstrual hygiene, oral and eye care.\n\nSHGs together with locally elected panchayats have started to arrange public meetings on important days relevant to them, for which both men and women organize events and give performances.\n\nA store is located on AVAG premises and provides access to affordable echo-friendly technologies suitable for rural communities, such as spirulina supplements, energy powder, CFL bulbs, activated EM, low-cost water filters, and solar-powered devices.\n\nAVAG organizes projects to repair houses of those extremely impoverished families identified by SHGs who cannot afford repairs on their own. AVAG finances 75% of the project while the families themselves are responsible for the repairs.\n\nThis programme aims at expanding the vision and ability of each individual and providing the tools needed to participate in societal development.\n\nAVAG organizes a day-long seminar each month for SHG members, aimed at increasing awareness about topics such as government schemes, gender and caste issues, water, sanitation, waste management and global warming.\n\nOne type of meeting AVAG has are the strengthening meetings. They support new SHGs as well as the clubs that need assistance with their activities. These meetings also help existing SHGs progress, and resolve internal problems by discussing the importance of unity and cooperation.\nAnother type of meeting are the cluster meetings, which are held with representatives from SHGs to discuss common issues in the women's area and give clarity to the guidelines of the clubs, as well as create a platform for different clubs to interact, share ideas and foster solidarity.\n\nThese trips are meant for the members to experience other parts of the surrounding areas and to get involved in new techniques like vermicomposting or gardening.\n\nOne department getting trained are the federation members. They participate in mixed-gender exposure trips and workshops that cover subjects such as leadership, caste, domestic violence, environmental awareness and gender, and sometimes also psychosocial aspects. The elected animator and two representatives of each SHG also receive training in the form of exposure to social issues and educational programs to increase leadership capacities.\n\nThrough revolving funds and a savings program, as well as by providing access to flexible, needs based, ethical financial institutions, income generation is created.\n\nWithin the AVAG network, SHG members can take loans from several places, most importantly internally from the monthly savings of members of AVAG's SHGs. Externally, SHGs are helped to get loans from the banks, revolving funds of the Federation and AVAG.\n\nBased on a grant from the German Ministry for Economic Development and Cooperation (BMZ), a revolving fund was created to meet the demand for micro-credits for the purposes of businesses, agriculture, education, housing, social functions, as well as to pay back the very high interest loans from the moneylenders. The higher objective was to combat poverty by micro-credits to women self-help groups.\n\nAVAG offers a large number of trainings, and creates self-employment opportunities for members of women's SHGs. Together with the Sustainable Enterprise Development in the Auroville Bioregion (SEDAB) project, which is part of a wider Integral Rural Development vision for the bioregion, the goal is to provide sustainable livelihood options for women in villages in and around Auroville.\nSeveral different products are being produced and sold as part of the social enterprise initiative, such as clothes and accessories and crocheted life style products, like toys and lamps, and accessories (under AVAG's own brand Aval), herbal beauty products, spirulina capsules (under the brand Surya) and hammocks with support and teaching from outside of AVAG.\n\nSHGs products are now being sold in several shops around Auroville and Pondicherry, as well as in women self-help group exhibitions in Pondicherry and Chennai, organized by the Tamil Nadu Government.\n\nThis program aims to protect and support the emotional, mental, spiritual, and physical health of all individuals.\n\nAVAG offers counseling services to individuals who have difficulty coping with some part of their lives. In addition to counseling, AVAG helps connect those in need with government services and other relevant organizations.\n\nSome SHG members are trained to spread awareness of the disease and treatment options and to identify cases and send them for rehabilitation services.\n\nAVAG has varying supporters, also relying on individual donors.\nThe BMZ gives AVAG a notable supporting sum each year under the Verein zur Förderung der Auroville-Region (VFAVR), affiliated with AVI Germany. They also supported the issue of the AVVAI scheme. Other funding partners are the Village Outreach Society of Canada and the United Kingdom, who have supported Eco Femme, AVAG's exchange programs and the solar lantern project of the EcoLife store.\nWorld Dignity, Inc.(WDI), an organization working internationally to build on the strength, resilience, culture and wisdom of all people, created the AVAG/WDI Education Revolving Fund to help financially poor club members pay for their children's higher education through loans or grants together with AVAG.\nMotherson Sumi Systems Limited has given a 1 Crore grant towards a project increasing access to education for poor girls in June 2015 as part of their Corporate social responsibility (CSR) program.\n\nIn 1983, AVAG was founded by Bhavana Dee Decew \"to act as a bridge between [Auroville] and immediate neighbours.\" At that time, a few programs with children and women were started in the villages surrounding Auroville. Gradually, professional social workers joined and turned AVAG into an official developmental project.\nWith OXFAM India's help starting 1991, AVAG expanded its scope in terms of working areas and adjointed activities and field staff could be recruited and trained. The Commonwealth Human Ecology Council (CHEC) of the Overseas Development Agency (ODA)-UK, later called the Department for International Development (DfID), also supported AVAG so that its work expanded further. Thanks to the DfID's funding, the Women's Federation and the men's groups could also be established in 1999.\nWhen the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake and tsunami hit Tamil Nadu, AVAG experienced a major financial and labor crisis. Many activities had to be reduced or shut down but it was sustained with the help of the women and men SHGs and the leaders of the villages. ACDC also supported AVAG's work in the tsunami hit areas. ACDC continued to support AVAG until 2009.\nIn 2010, the social enterprise initiative got started with the assistance of the Sustainable Enterprise Development in the Auroville Bioregion (SEDAB), scheduled to run until the middle of 2016. The BMZ project set up a revolving fund with the German government's support, mainly for enabling the distribution of grants to poor girls for obtaining a better education.\nCurrently, AVAG is working on setting up education programs for adolescent girls and boys and marketing its products more. Also, flood relief after the hundred-year 2015 South Indian floods in the Villupuram district is still going on.\n\nAVAG is closely working together with people in Auroville, for certain events such as flood relief help and different entrepreneurial projects inside of Auroville. Some of AVAG's women stitch disposable cloth pads for EcoFemme, they have also recently started to assist in stitching scarves made by The Colours of Nature One different project which AVAG is working together with Auroville on right now is the Paalam project, Paalam meaning bridge in Tamil, which is a bioregional and Auroville youth leadership program and \"aims to provide training in sustainable village development through a programme that would include exposure to Auroville and its ideals and to model village development throughout Tamil Nadu.\" \nOnce a year, a student from the American University of Paris (AUP) joins AVAG for a few weeks to assist it in the communications sector. \nAVAG is associated with the National Australia Bank, the Indian Bank and the ICICI Bank for the microfinancing and SHG loans. They send a mobile bank to AVAG twice a week and issue the loans to the SHG women.\nThe German BMZ is supporting one or two young volunteers coming to AVAG via Auroville International (AVI) Deutschland e.V., a non-profit organization which is amongst other things a volunteer sending agency via weltwärts, each year for a year's duration.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45637917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45637917", "title": "Bill Mott (British Army soldier)", "text": "Bill Mott (British Army soldier)\n\nGarrison Sergeant Major William Daran Gillduff Mott, is a former British Army soldier who was one of the army's most senior warrant officers between 2002 and 2015. \n\nMott was brought up in Overpool, Cheshire, before enlisting into the 1st Battalion, Welsh Guards in April 1979. He saw operational tours in Northern Ireland and during the Falklands War in 1982. He served at the Royal Military Academy Sandhurst as a colour sergeant, company sergeant major, and regimental sergeant major, before becoming Garrison Sergeant Major (GSM) at HQ Northern Ireland. He became GSM HQ London District in late 2002 and oversaw his first Trooping the Colour parade as GSM in June 2003. He was subsequently in charge of organising, choreographing and overseeing all major state ceremonial occasions. From 2003 he was also a pivotal figure in organising the repatriation ceremonies for British soldiers killed in action during operations in the Iraq War and the War in Afghanistan.\n\nMott was appointed Officer of the Order of the British Empire (OBE) in the 2007 Birthday Honours. In the 2012 Diamond Jubilee Honours he was appointed Member of the Royal Victorian Order (MVO) for his personal service to the monarch during the Diamond Jubilee of Elizabeth II. Mott was granted Freedom of the City of London in November 2013. He retired from the army in June 2015 following Trooping the Colour, during which the Welsh Guards marked the centennial year of their foundation. \n\nIn February 2014, Mott publicly warned that cuts to the British defence budget were threatening to undermine the future spectacle of state ceremonial events in the United Kingdom. \n"}
{"id": "47264505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47264505", "title": "Bombers Affair", "text": "Bombers Affair\n\nThe Bombers Affair (Luxembourgish:\"Bommeleeër Affär\") is the name given to a series of bomb attacks on Infrastructure installations and public buildings in the Grand Duchy of Luxembourg between May 1984, and April 1986. The identities of the perpetrators and the motives are not known, however the population developed a diverse set of conspiracy theories. Many believe that members of the Luxembourgish Government or Grand Ducal Family, as well as insiders in the Security Services were involved in the attacks.\n\nThe perpetrators carried out thefts of detonators and explosives from Luxembourgish quarries. The perpetrators used the stolen materials blow up electricity pylons from the electricity company Cegedel. Cegedel received multiple ransom letters. The company contacted the police and decided not to pay. Later once the company had come to a conclusion and decided to pay the ransom, the perpetrators declined the transfer of money, stating that they knew of the Police interest surrounding the attacks. Cegedel's electricity pylons remained the target of later attacks. However, the perpetrators diversified the targets of their later attacks to include the Headquarters of the Gendarmerie and the Palace of Justice. A particularly significant incident happened during a meeting of the European Council on the Kirchberg plateau, the incident in question involved a small explosive device which was thrown out of the windows of a moving car. After two further attacks, one on the apartment of a Notary (Car Bomb) and the apartment of a retired commander of the Gendarmerie, the attacks ceased.\n\nNo-one was killed by the 18 attacks, however a young soldier was killed during service, by a traffic collision during the surveillance of Luxembourg Airport. The perpetrators also set up an explosive trap in a forest, which was discovered before it could be put to use, however it could have resulted in the death of many people. Furthermore, an engineer’s hand was severely injured, when he picked up a Flashlight which had been fitted with a detonator. A number of people were injured as a compromised electricity pylon fell upon a highway, which caused traffic to collide on the highway, however nobody was severely injured. It is understood that the perpetrators wanted to avoid human casualties, however in a number of incidents it was pure co-incidence that no-one was injured.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2404043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2404043", "title": "Brotherhood of Russian Truth", "text": "Brotherhood of Russian Truth\n\nThe Brotherhood of Russian Truth () was a Russian counter-revolutionary nationalist organization established in 1921 by Pyotr Krasnov and other former members of the White movement, including Prince Anatoly Lieven, to overthrow Bolshevism in Soviet Russia. The term \"Russian Truth\" is the word used to describe the Russian code of laws established by the mediaeval Rus' Grand Prince, Yaroslav I the Wise. The political program of the Brotherhood was anti-communism with a monarchist, Orthodox Christian sentiment.\n\nThe main method of struggle for the Brotherhood was the establishment of an underground network of counter-revolutionaries within Soviet Russia. The Brotherhood sent agents to cross the Soviet border illegally, as did the Russian All-Military Union and the NTS. Unfortunately for the Brotherhood, agents working for the Inner Line disrupted their activities, causing considerable casualties.\n\nThe organization ceased its activity after its president Afinogen Argunov was killed in 1932 by a GPU agent.\n\n"}
{"id": "637528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=637528", "title": "Canada Border Services Agency", "text": "Canada Border Services Agency\n\nThe Canada Border Services Agency (CBSA) () is a federal agency that is responsible for border enforcement, immigration enforcement and customs services.\n\nThe Agency was created on December 12, 2003, by an order-in-council amalgamating Canada Customs (from the now-defunct Canada Customs and Revenue Agency) with border and enforcement personnel from the Department of Citizenship and Immigration Canada (CIC) and the Canadian Food Inspection Agency (CFIA). The Agency's creation was formalized by the \"Canada Border Services Agency Act\", which received Royal Assent on November 3, 2005.\n\nSince the September 11 attacks against the United States, Canada's border operations have placed an enhanced emphasis on national security and public safety. The Canada–United States Smart Border Declaration, created by John Manley and Tom Ridge, then first U.S. Secretary of Homeland Security of the Department of Homeland Security, has provided objectives for co-operation between Canadian and American border operations.\n\nThe CBSA oversees approximately 1,200 service locations across Canada, and 39 in other countries. It employs over 12,000 public servants, and offers around-the-clock service at 119 land border crossings and thirteen international airports.\n\nThe Agency oversees operations at three major sea ports and three mail centres, and operates detention facilities known as immigration holding centres in Laval, Toronto, and Vancouver.\n\nThe CBSA operates an Inland Enforcement branch, which tracks down and removes foreign nationals who are in Canada illegally. Inland Enforcement Officers are \"plain-clothes\" units, and are armed with the same sidearm pistol (PX4D Storm chambered in 9×19mm Parabellum) as port of entry Border Services Officers.\n\nPrior to 2004, border security in Canada was handled by three legacy agencies:\nThe CBSA was created in an attempt to address issues found in a review by the Auditor General including an inability to share certain security information and shortcomings in inter-agency communication.\n\nIn addition to using generic identifiers imposed by the Federal Identity Program, the CBSA is one of several federal departments (primarily those involved with law enforcement, security, or having a regulatory function) that have been granted heraldic symbols by the Canadian Heraldic Authority.\n\nThe coat of arms was granted on June 15, 2010, and presented by Her Majesty Queen Elizabeth II on July 6, 2010. The ceremony was the Queen's last function on her 2010 Canadian Royal Tour. Also in attendance were Governor General Michaëlle Jean and Prime Minister Stephen Harper. Use of the coat of arms is reserved for special occasions, and it is normally associated with the office of the CBSA President.\n\nThe heraldic badge was approved for use at the same time as the coat of arms. It portrays a gold tressure, which symbolizes the agency's security focus. The portcullis represents Her Majesty's agents responsible for border services. The Latin motto of translates as \"Protection, Service, Integrity\". The badge figures prominently in the television series \"\".\n\nA flag was approved for use on December 20, 2012. It is meant to resemble Canada's Blue Ensign, which was flown on government vessels (including those patrolling Canada's maritime borders) prior to 1965.\n\nCanada Customs officers, and their successor officers of the CBSA during the latter's initial years, did not have firearms, instead relying on a local RCMP detachment to provide backup if armed force was required.\n\nSince the creation of the Agency in 2003, the CBSA has undergone significant changes to its overall structure, as services previously offered by different agencies are now housed under a single banner. Not only has the structure of the organization changed, but the range of duties and the institutional priorities have changed. Where the prior coupling of Canada Customs with the Canada Revenue Agency lent itself to a focus on tax collection, the new Agency was created to address heightened security concerns post-9/11, and to respond to criticisms, mostly from the United States, that Canada was not doing enough to ensure the security of North America.\n\nSubstantial changes began before the 2001 terrorist attacks in the United States. In May 1998, the Government of Canada passed an Act to amend the Customs Act and the Criminal Code, which changed agency policy to allow the officers to arrest and detain individuals at the border for non-customs related violations of Canadian law. These new responsibilities led to the implementation of use of force policies. Border Services Officers across Canada started to carry collapsible batons, OC spray (pepper spray) and handcuffs, although it was still several years before they would be equipped with firearms.\n\nThe 2006 Canadian federal budget introduced $101 million to equip Border Services Officers (BSOs) with side arms and to eliminate single-person border crossings to help officers perform their duties. The decision to arm BSOs has been a subject of some controversy in Canada for several years since previous governments felt that unarmed officers made the country less intimidating to visitors, as opposed to the U.S. Customs and Border Protection, whose officers have carried side arms for decades. Supporters of arming BSOs said that this would help the CBSA shed its lax reputation and better enforce their authority in the post 9/11 era, for instance when dealing with American visitors who frequently carry firearms. Arming BSOs had the support of other law enforcement agencies as well as the union that represents the affected officers. In August 2006, Prime Minister Stephen Harper announced that arming BSOs would begin in early 2007 and would continue through 2016. Arming at the other Ports of Entry across Canada was conducted systematically with those Ports considered the busiest and/or most dangerous to be completed first; some of the first officers to be armed were those working at the Windsor, Ontario port of entry which is the busiest highway port of entry in Canada. Today, Border Services Officers at all Ports of Entry are issued duty firearms; however, they may not be routinely worn depending on the environment the officer is working in.\n\n\nA Border Services Officer (BSO) is a federal law enforcement officer employed by the Canada Border Services Agency. While Border Services Officer is the overarching term for the CBSA's front-line personnel, it is actually not a title derived from legislation. Rather BSOs receive multiple legislative designations such as Customs Officers under the \"Customs Act\", Immigration Officers under the Immigration and Refugee Protection Act, and Screening Officers under the \"Quarantine Act\". Border Services Officers are, when enforcing customs- or immigration-related legislation, Peace Officers under the Criminal Code of Canada; however, they can only make arrests for offences under the Code if they are appointed \"designated officers\" by the Minister of Public Safety under Section 163.4 of the \"Customs Act\" and are at customs office performing the normal duties of an officer. Border Services Officers are equipped with handcuffs, oleoresin capsicum (OC) spray, batons, and are currently armed with Beretta PX4 Storm pistols. The arming initiative began in 2007 and officially concluded in 2016.\n\nBorder Services Officers are trained at the CBSA College, located in Rigaud, Quebec. The training begins with a 4-week online program called Pre-OITP, and an 18-week program called CBSA Officer Induction Training Program (OITP) which covers a range of topics from criminal law and immigration and customs legislation to control and defensive tactics.\n\n\nIn 2010 a CBSA officer at B.C's Peace Arch border crossing was convicted of sexually assaulting women in three separate incidents after ordering at least four unauthorized strip searches\n\nOn October 16, 2012, a CBSA officer was shot on duty at the Peace Arch Douglas Border Crossing. The attacker was an American man who shot the CBSA officer before he killed himself. The CBSA officer, Lori Bowcock, was shot in the neck but she survived. This is the first time since CBSA's inception that an officer was shot on duty.\n\nIn March 2015, Alain Philippon, a man from Ste-Anne-des-Plaines, Quebec, was referred to secondary inspection after returning from a trip to the Dominican Republic. During the inspection, CBSA officers asked Philippon to disclose the password to his Blackberry phone. He refused and was charged with hindering an officer's job under section 153.1 (b) of the Customs Act, which carries a maximum sentence of twelve months' imprisonment and a $25,000 fine.\n\nFollowing his arrest, Philippon said that he would fight the charge, as he considers his phone to be \"personal\". His case got national and international attention, and several organizations argued that the Charter right to privacy could extend to electronic devices at the border, especially in light of recent Supreme Court case law.\n\nIn August 2016, Philippon entered a guilty plea and was ordered to pay a $500 fine. The plea meant that no Charter challenge was going to be raised, and the question of whether or not a refusal to provide a password to a customs officer is considered hindering remains unanswered.\n\nLater in August, following Philippon's guilty plea, the British Columbia Civil Liberties Association published a CBSA Operational Bulletin which indicated that the CBSA maintains it has the legal authority to compel passwords, but at the same time acknowledges that the law is unclear. The bulletin also states that officers may only use a password to gain access to data stored within the device itself, and not data stored on-line.\n\nSince 2000, at least 13 people have died while in the custody of the CBSA and its predecessor, with the two most recent deaths occurring in the span of a week in two separate incidents in March 2016.\n\nFollowing the latest incidents, several organizations reacted and called for an immigration detention reform. The CBSA remains one of the few enforcement agencies in Canada without an independent and external oversight body.\n\nBeginning in 2012, the CBSA participated in a documentary called \"Border Security: Canada's Front Line\", produced by Canadian National Geographic Channel. It is similar in format to the in following CBSA officers from various ports and Inland Enforcement Teams. The show has attracted criticism from the British Columbia Civil Liberties Association and the Canadian Bar Association due to its approach to privacy rights and its one-sided narrative.\n\nIn 2013, while filming for the show, the CBSA conducted a raid on a construction site in Vancouver. They arrested a Mexican national, Oscar Mata Duran, and brought him to an immigration detention centre where he was presented with a filming consent form. Canada's Privacy Commissioner, following a complaint from the man, investigated. The Commissioner found that the CBSA breached Canada's Privacy Act by filming their interaction with Duran before he was advised of the purposes of filming and found that the coercive nature of being detained in a holding facility would have prevented Duran from providing informed consent for his appearance. The Commissioner lauded Duran as a real hero for lodging the privacy complaint even though he would not personally benefit from it. Duran was deported following the raid. In light of Duran's complaint the Privacy Commissioner recommended that the CBSA end its participation in the show, the CBSA announced that the show would not return for a fourth season.\n\nThe CBSA plays a key role in immigration to Canada, as it has assumed the port-of-entry and enforcement mandates formerly held by the Department of Citizenship and Immigration Canada. CBSA officers work on the front lines, screening persons entering the country and removing those who are unlawfully in Canada.\n\nAs of the end of 2003 there were up to 200,000 illegal immigrants in Canada (most residing in Ontario). Most are refugee claimants whose refugee applications were rejected by the Immigration and Refugee Board of Canada. There are very few illegal immigrants who enter the country without first being examined by the CBSA. The reason for this is that Canada is physically very difficult to get to, with the exception of crossing the Canada/U.S. border. As the U.S. is itself a prime destination for illegal immigrants, not many illegal immigrants then attempt to cross the border into Canada in the wild. This differs significantly from the illegal immigration patterns in the U.S., which stem from illegal border crossings.\n\nThere has been a recent increase in the number of illegal entrants from St. Pierre & Miquelon who travel in makeshift boats. High unemployment in the French colony has spurred this increase, which has been acknowledged by the Government of France. The CBSA and Royal Canadian Navy are considering increased marine patrols to intercept the illegal migrants. While residents could lawfully travel to France, the expensive airfare has made the relatively short boat ride to the Canadian province of Newfoundland more attractive for destitute economic migrants.\nAll persons and goods entering Canada are subject to examination by CBSA officers. An examination can be as simple as a few questions, but can also include an examination of the subject's vehicle and/or luggage, more intensive questioning, or personal searches. The intensity of an examination depends on the reasonable grounds that the officer has to escalate the intensiveness of a search.\n\nExaminations are performed to ensure compliance with Customs and Immigration legislation. CBSA officers are given their authority by the \"Customs Act\" and the \"Immigration and Refugee Protection Act.\" In addition, BSOs are also able to enforce other Acts of Parliament as they are designated as Peace Officers under the Criminal Code.\n\nThe agency will also seize items it labels obscene, as it did in February 2009 when it detained and banned two films by the adult film director Michael Lucas. The CBSA's Policy On The Classification Of Obscene Material states that the \"ingestion of someone else's urine... with a sexual purpose\" makes a film obscene.\n\nIn the year 2000 after a ten-year-long controversy over items the agency labelled obscene, the case reached the British Columbia Supreme Court. One judge in the case concluded not only that Customs officials had wrongly delayed, confiscated, destroyed, damaged, prohibited or misclassified materials imported by the appellant on numerous occasions, but that these errors were caused \"by the systemic targeting of Little Sisters' importations in the Vancouver Customs.\n\nSecondary examination can at times be a lengthy process and may cause delays to travellers selected for examination.\n\nThe CBSA's use of detector dogs began with three canine units at the Windsor port of entry in 1978. The program has since expanded to include 69 detector dog teams located at ports across Canada. Detector dogs work in mail, air, land and marine modes. Each dog is trained to detect specific commodities, and are generally trained to fit into one of four (Soon to be three) profiles:\n\nDetector dogs provide Border Services Officers (BSOs) with one of the most effective tools in the detection of contraband. Although other tools are available to BSOs, detector dogs are highly efficient in their ability to accurately locate the source of a scent, and thus can save time in labour-intensive examinations of vehicles, luggage and cargo. This speeds up the process for BSOs as well as for the travelling public.\n\nThe CBSA uses passive detector dogs, unlike some other law enforcement agencies, which use active dogs. When a passive dog detects a scent that it has been trained to recognize, it sits beside the source of the smell. While active dogs, which bark, scratch, dig or bite at the source of the scent, were used initially by the CBSA, passive dogs allow the officer to circulate among passengers more peacefully, and are considered by the Agency to be more effective in the course of their work. The Passive Dog training was implemented in 1993, and is now the Agency's preference.\n\nDetector Dog teams (consisting of a dog and a single handler) undergo a 10-week training course at the CBSA Learning Centre. The handlers are Border Services Officers, and are trained on how to care for, maintain, and train their dogs. They are also trained to understand the Cone of Scent. Odour particles always disperse in the shape of a cone: more concentrated at the source, and less concentrated farther away. After the initial training, the handler must keep up a training regimen to ensure their dog remains in top form. Only about 1 in 10 dogs who begin the training eventually become detector dogs.\n\nWhile there is no specific description for a detector dog, the CBSA looks for certain characteristics that make a better potential detector dog, including:\n\n\nDetector dogs begin training between the ages of 11 and 16 months and work for an average of 8 to 10 years. Several different breeds are used, but the CBSA primarily uses Labrador Retrievers for firearm, drug and currency detection, and the Beagle for plant, food and animal detection. Dogs live with their handler full-time. While the dog is at work, it is transported in air-conditioned vehicles that act as a mobile kennel.\n\nThe AMPS program, implemented in December 2005, is a system that encourages compliance with Customs legislation through the tendering of monetary penalties. It is used mainly as an enforcement tool on technical infractions, where the subject did not necessarily intend to breach the legislation, but failed to comply in some way. For more serious or deliberate infractions, the goods in question may be seized or subject to forfeiture. AMPS penalties are imposed depending on the severity and frequency of the infraction. Multiple infractions will result in higher penalties under the AMPS system.\n\nThe Criminal Investigations Division of CBSA is tasked with investigating and pursuing prosecution of those who commit criminal offences against Canada's border legislation.\nThe CBSA's criminal investigators are responsible for operational activities including:\n\nThe Canada Border Services Agency maintains a robust and comprehensive Intelligence program, which is mandated to provide timely, accurate and relevant intelligence support to operational decision makers at all levels within the Agency. Information is lawfully collected from a variety of sources, including open and closed source materials, domestic and international intelligence partners, joint operations with other law enforcement agencies, sophisticated technical means, covert surveillance, and informants/human intelligence. Intelligence officers and analysts are deployed within Canada—along the borders and throughout the country—as well as overseas.\n\nThe CBSA turns the information it collects into intelligence by using automated risk analysis, analytical tools, and risk management. This allows it to work toward its objective of balancing security concerns with the need to facilitate the flow of people and goods. The Agency seeks to manage risks through a number of means, including the collection and analysis of intelligence information, the use of detection tools, the analysis of indicators and judgment of front-line officers, and random checks.\n\nThreat and risk assessments are widely recognized as valuable decision-making tools when setting examination priorities. The Agency's intelligence directorate conducts a border risk assessment of its border operations every 2–3 years. Under this process, the Agency assesses the risks of smuggling contraband, such as drugs, firearms, proceeds of crime, child pornography, illicit tobacco etc. The information is assessed and ranked by commodity and by mode of transport. The Agency will include the risks of irregular or illegal migration of people, and the movement of food, plants, and animals, now under the Agency's broader mandate, in the next version of its border risk assessment.\n\nThe Agency also prepares a national port risk assessment every two years. The Agency assessed the relative risk to 168 ports of entry in 2006 and 220 in 2004. Regional intelligence analysts, in consultation with other sources and port operational staff, complete a questionnaire detailing port demographics, traffic volume, enforcement, and intelligence information. The 2006 risk assessment ranked 23 ports as high-risk and included information on suspected criminal and national security risks, as well as the risk of irregular or illegal migration of people.\n\nIn addition to the border and port risk assessment processes, the intelligence directorate provides daily, weekly and monthly updates on specific threats and trends in unlawful activities. Intelligence officers and analysts frequently participate in tactical and operational law enforcement activities such as search warrants, arrests, surveillance, the recruitment and retention of confidential informers, interviews of detainees and the analysis of seized goods and evidence.\n\nThe CBSA Border Watch toll free info line offers citizens the opportunity to report suspicious cross border activity directly to the Agency in a direct and confidential manner. The Border Watch line differs from other phone lines for the public, such as Crimestoppers or the Royal Canadian Mounted Police info line in that it is designed to focus directly on border-related intelligence. The toll free number is 1-888-502-9060.\n\nThe Smart Border Declaration and Action Plan, also known as the Smart Border Accord, was signed in 2001 and is an initiative of the Government of Canada, specifically the CBSA, RCMP and the Department of Foreign Affairs and International Trade, and the Government of the United States, specifically the Department of Homeland Security, U.S. Customs and Border Protection and the United States Coast Guard. The two major signatories to the Declaration were Canadian Deputy Prime Minister John Manley and then-US Director of Homeland Security Tom Ridge.\n\nThe accord was set up in order to facilitate the cross-border flow of travellers and goods, while co-ordinating enforcement efforts in the two countries.\n\nThe accord consists of 30 points of common interest to improve both security and trade between the two countries. Included in the plan are initiatives to improve the biometric features of Permanent Resident Cards in both countries, sharing Advanced Passenger Information, and creating compatible immigration databases.\n\nThere are four main pillars to the Action Plan:\n\n\nIntegrated Border Enforcement Teams (IBETs) were created as a part of the Accord to consolidate the law-enforcement and intelligence-gathering expertise of different agencies in both countries. The IBETs consist of members from the CBSA, RCMP, U.S. Customs and Border Protection, U.S. Coast Guard, and U.S. ICE Teams. However, IBETs also enlist the help of other municipal, state/provincial and federal agencies on certain projects.\n\nIn Canada, IBETs operate in 15 regions across the Canada-U.S. Border in air, sea and land modes. They are based on a model started along the British Columbia-Washington State border in 1996. Since their inception, IBETs have helped disrupt smuggling rings involved in the drug trade, alcohol, tobacco and vehicle smuggling, and human trafficking.\n\nThe CSA program gives approved importers a streamlined accounting and paying process for all imported goods. Importers are required to apply for acceptance into the program\n\nA major ongoing project of the CBSA is Advance Commercial Information, which requires shipborne and airborne cargo entering Canada to be registered with the Agency. This assists officials at seaports and airports in their inspections, and allows for the tracking of suspicious materials. These phases of the project were implemented in 2005, with a similar highway and rail cargo program to follow in the near future.\n\nA report ordered by the federal government in 2017 urges for the creation of a new independent oversight committee to monitor, address and investigate complaints against the CBSA. Currently, CBSA has no civilian oversight. It is considered a highly unusual situation by many provincial law associations as nearly every policing agency in Canada has some form of independent oversight body.\n\nWhilst the laws surrounding electronic privacy rights at the border are currently considered unsettled, a number of new court cases are raising the issue that personal electronic devices (such as cell phones and lab tops) should be afforded a higher level of privacy.\n\nIn August 2018, the British Columbia Civil Liberties Association (BCCLA) published a guide surrounding searches of electronic devices at the border. The guide was distributed by major media outlets in Canada.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1608700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1608700", "title": "Case of Trotskyist Anti-Soviet Military Organization", "text": "Case of Trotskyist Anti-Soviet Military Organization\n\nThe Case of Trotskyist Anti-Soviet Military Organization, also known as the \"Military Case\" or the \"Tukhachevsky Case\"), was a 1937 secret trial of the high command of the Red Army, a part of the Great Purge.\n\nThe Case of Military was a secret trial, unlike the Moscow Show Trials. It is traditionally considered one of the key trials of the Great Purge. Marshal Mikhail Tukhachevsky and the senior military officers Iona Yakir, Ieronim Uborevich, Robert Eideman, August Kork, Vitovt Putna, Boris Feldman and Vitaly Primakov (as well as Yakov Gamarnik, who committed suicide before the investigations began) were accused of anti-Soviet conspiracy and sentenced to death; they were executed on the night of June 11 to 12, 1937, immediately after the verdict delivered by a Special Session (специальное судебное присутствие) of the Supreme Court of the USSR. \n\nThe Tribunal was presided over by Vasili Ulrikh and included marshals Vasily Blyukher, Semyon Budyonny; Army Commanders Yakov Alksnis, Boris Shaposhnikov, Ivan Panfilovich Belov, Pavel Dybenko, and Nikolai Kashirin; and Corps Commander Yelisey Goryachev. Only Ulrikh, Budyonny and Shaposhnikov would survive the purges that followed.\n\nThe trial triggered a massive subsequent purge of the Red Army. In September 1938, the People's Commissar for Defense, Kliment Voroshilov, reported that a total of 37,761 officers and commissars were dismissed from the army, 10,868 were arrested and 7,211 were condemned for anti-Soviet crimes.\n\nThe trial was preceded by several purges of the Red Army. In the mid-1920s, Leon Trotsky was removed as Commissar of War, and his known supporters were expunged from the military. Former tsarist officers had been purged in the late 1920s and early 1930s. The latter purge was accompanied by the \"exposure\" of the \"Former Officers Plot\". The next wave of arrests of military commanders started in the second half of 1936 and increased in scope after the February–March 1937 Plenary Meeting of the Central Committee of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union (CPSU), where Vyacheslav Molotov called for more thorough exposure of \"wreckers\" within the Red Army since they \"had already been found in all segments of the Soviet economy\".\n\nGeneral Mikhail Tukhachevsky was arrested on May 22, 1937 and charged, along with seven other Red Army commanders, with the creation of a \"right-wing-Trotskyist\" military conspiracy and espionage for Nazi Germany, based on confessions obtained from a number of other arrested officers.\n\nBefore 1990, it was frequently argued that the case against the eight generals was based on forged documents created by the Abwehr, documents which deluded Stalin into believing that a plot was being fomented by Tukhachevsky and other Red Army commanders to depose him. However, after Soviet archives were opened to researchers after the fall of the Soviet Union, it became clear that Stalin actually concocted the fictitious plot by the most famous and important of his Soviet generals in order to get rid of them in a believable manner.\n\nAt Stalin's order, the NKVD instructed one of its agents, Nikolai Skoblin, to concoct information suggesting a plot by Tukhachevsky and the other Soviet generals against Stalin and pass it to Reinhard Heydrich, chief of the German (\"Sicherheitsdienst\") intelligence arm. Seeing an opportunity to strike a blow at both the Soviet Union and his archenemy Wilhelm Canaris of the German Abwehr, Heydrich immediately acted on the information and undertook to improve on it, forging a series of documents implicating Tukhachevsky and other Red Army commanders; these were later passed to the Soviets via Beneš and other neutral parties. Stalin's archives indeed contain a number of messages received during 1920–30s duly reporting the possible involvement of Tukhachevsky with the \"German Nazi leadership\".\nWhile the Germans believed they had successfully deluded Stalin into executing his best generals, in reality, they had merely served as useful and unwitting pawns of Stalin. It is notable that the forged documents were not even used by Soviet military prosecutors against the generals in their secret trial but instead relied on false confessions extorted or beaten out of the defendants.\n\nAfraid of the consequences of trying popular generals and war heroes in a public forum, Stalin ordered the trial also be kept secret and for the defendants to be executed immediately following their court-martial. Tukhachevsky and his fellow defendants were probably tortured into confessions.\nAll convicts were rehabilitated on January 31, 1957 for the \"absence of essence of an offence\". It was concluded that arrests, investigations and trials were performed in violation of procedural norms and based on forced confessions, in many cases obtained with the aid of physical violence.\n\nThere are no conclusive facts about the real rationale behind the forged trial. Over the years, researchers and historians put forth the following hypotheses:\n\nThe central hypothesis and the one with the widest support is that Stalin had simply decided to consolidate his power by eliminating any and all potential political or military rivals. Viewed from the broader context of the Great Terror which followed, the execution of the most popular and well-regarded generals in the Red Army command can be seen as a preemptive move by Stalin and Nikolai Yezhov, People's Commissar of State Security, to eliminate a potential rival and source of opposition to their planned purge of the nomenklatura. The fall of the first eight generals was swiftly followed by the arrest of most of the People's Commissars, nearly all regional party secretaries, hundreds of Central Committee members and candidates and thousands of lesser CPSU officials. At the end, three of five Soviet Marshals, 90% of all Red Army generals, 80% of Red Army colonels and 30,000 officers of lesser rank had been purged. Virtually all were executed. \n\nAt first, it was thought 25-50% of Red Army officers were purged, but it is now known to be 3.7-7.7%. Previously, the size of the Red Army officer corps was underestimated, and it was overlooked that most of those purged were merely expelled from the Party. 30% of officers purged 1937-9 were allowed back.\n\nAnother suggestion is that Tukhachevsky and others indeed tried to conspire against Stalin. Leon Trotsky, in his later works, argued that while it was impossible to speak conclusively about the plot, he saw indications in Stalin's mania for involvement in every detail of Red Army organization and logistics that the military had real reasons for dissent, which may have eventually led to a plot. However, the revelations of Stalin's actions following the release of Soviet archival information have now largely discredited this theory. While the military may well have had many secret reasons for their dislike of Stalin, there is now no credible evidence that any of them ever conspired to eliminate him.\n\nVictor Suvorov has claimed that the purge was intended to replace Red Army officers with more competent generals for his future conquests. For example, he claims that the ultimate reason why Tukhachevsky was killed is because he failed to conquer Poland during the Polish-Soviet War; despite this failure, Tukhachevsky had made a career in the party when he suppressed the Tambov rebellion. Suvorov compared the change of leadership in the Army as teeth of an shark: each new row is sharper than the previous one.\n\nVadim Rogovin's book \"1937: Stalin's Year of Terror\" contains a lengthy discussion of another unexplained mystery: that it took only about two weeks to force admissions of guilt from the accused despite the fact that all of them were relatively young, able-bodied military trained people. Rogovin contrasts it with the Jewish Anti-Fascist Committee, where the inquest lasted about four years, despite brutal tortures.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2876995", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2876995", "title": "Coconstitutionalism", "text": "Coconstitutionalism\n\nCoconstitutionalism is where two institutional cultures exist in a complex semi-autonomous relationship to each other. The model of asymmetrical devolution that has emerged in democratic Spain has been called \"coconstitutional\" in that it is neither a federal nor a unitary model of government: autonomous nation-regions exist alongside and within the Spanish nation-state in a relatively dynamic relationship.\n\nSimilarities to federalism are marked although a key difference lies in the legal status of a federal-state versus a notionally unitary coconstitutional one: in a federation, it is the states who legally transfer powers to the federal government (bottom up) whereas in a unitary state power is devolved from the nation-state down to the regions (top down) and can in theory be revoked. But in the case of Spain any such move by a future Spanish government could rekindle the Spanish Civil War, the truth is such a move would probably require a constitutional amendment. Certainly a statue of autonomy (Spanish, \"Estatuto de autonomía\") cannot be abrogated nor modified save by an initiative of an autonomous regional Parliament—that being, of course, unlikely.\n\nSince 1997, the UK government has pursued a similar coconstitutional model of devolution with regard to its nation-regions.\n"}
{"id": "42043879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42043879", "title": "Corruption in Malaysia", "text": "Corruption in Malaysia\n\nAccording to a 2013 public survey in Malaysia by Transparency International, a majority of the surveyed households perceived Malaysian political parties to be highly corrupt. A quarter of the surveyed households consider the government's efforts in the fight against corruption to be ineffective. \n\nTransparency International's 2017 Corruption Perception Index ranks the country 62nd place out of 180 countries.\n\nBusiness executives surveyed in the World Economic Forum's Global Competitiveness Report 2013-2014 reveal that unethical behaviours of companies constitute a disadvantage for doing business in Malaysia. Government contracts are sometimes awarded to well-connected companies, and the policies of awarding huge infrastructure projects to selected Bumiputera companies without open tender continue to exist.\n\nCorruption is a problem. Malaysia had a corruption score of 52 out of 100 (high scores are less corrupt); this makes Malaysia the 2nd \"cleanest\" country in SE Asia, 9th out of 28 in APAC and 50th of the 175 countries assessed worldwide.\n\nTransparency International list Malaysia's key corruption challenges as:\n\nIn 2013, Malaysia was identified in a survey by Ernst and Young as one of the most corrupt countries in the region according to the perceptions of foreign business leaders, along with neighbouring countries and China. The survey asked whether it was likely that each country would take shortcuts to achieve economic targets.\n\nDespite periodic actions by the government to crack down on petty corruption in the Immigration Department, bribe-taking and fraudulent issuance of visas has been a long-standing problem, particularly among immigration officers at the KLIA and KLIA2 terminals of Kuala Lumpur International Airport. In 2016, the Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission (MACC) uncovered a scheme in Selangor, in which immigration officers collected passport application fees from travelers and then submitted fraudulent paperwork declaring them disabled, resulting in fee waivers that amounted to over 1 million Malaysian ringgit by the time the scheme was exposed. In a December, 2016 statement to the Malaysian press, Deputy Prime Minister Datuk Seri Ahmad Zahid Samidi estimated that over half of the 1500 immigration officers working in the KLIA and KLIA2 terminals had participated in a range of corrupt practices, including fraudulent issuance of visas, tampering with Immigration Department data, and collusion with human-trafficking agents.\n\nThe Malaysian Anti-Corruption Commission (MACC) is a government agency in Malaysia that investigates and prosecutes corruption in the public and private sectors. The MACC was modelled after top anti-corruption agencies, such as the Hong Kong's Independent Commission Against Corruption and the New South Wales Independent Commission Against Corruption, Australia.\n\nThe MACC is currently headed by Chief Commissioner Datuk Dzulkifli Ahmad. He was appointed in 1 August 2016 to replace former Chief Commissioner Tan Sri Abu Kassim Mohamed. Similarly, the agency is currently under the Prime Minister's Department.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24428543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24428543", "title": "Demoralization (warfare)", "text": "Demoralization (warfare)\n\nDemoralization is, in a context of warfare, national security, and law enforcement, a process in psychological warfare with the objective to erode morale among enemy combatants and/or noncombatants. That can encourage them to retreat, surrender, or defect rather than defeating them in combat.\n\nDemoralization methods are military tactics such as hit-and-run attacks such as snipers, disturbing the enemy with less-lethal weapons and incapacitating agents, and intimidation such as display of force concentration. Some methods on the strategic scale are commerce raiding, strategic bombing, static operations such as sieges and naval blockades, and propaganda.\n\nMorale is often perceived as a necessary precursor to success in international relations because success most often goes to those who believe in their cause, as they more easily maintain a positive outlook that contributes to their ability to work harder for the cause. High morale can directly contribute to \"an economy of food, textiles, fuel, and other commodities, and to stimulate recruiting, employment in war industries, service in relief work, and the purchase of bonds.\" Writing in 1965, French philosopher and sociologist Jacques Ellul described the importance of morale in modern society by saying:\nThough variations are possible, the most common indicators of high morale are determination, enthusiasm, self-confidence, and a relative absence of criticism or complaint. While contributors to the level of morale are essentially endless, common examples consist of the level to which individuals identify with a nation or cause; have their basic needs of food, clothing, and shelter met; have confidence in the justness of their cause; have confidence in the ability of their cause to overcome obstacles; the means through which authorities instill discipline; and a sense of unity with other supporters of the cause.\n\nIn an environment in which two belligerents compete, the chances of success greatly diminish if those whose actions are necessary lack faith in the justness of the cause or its chance for success or are discouraged, morally defeated, disconsolate, antagonistic, sullen, inattentive, or lazy. Demoralization can be used to lessen the chances of success for an opponent by fostering these attitudes, and it can generally be done in one of two ways: demoralization through objective conditions or demoralization through perception.\n\nDemoralization through objective conditions most commonly takes the form of a military defeat on the battlefield that has tangible consequences directly resulting in the indicators of a demoralized party, but it can also result from an adverse physical environment where basic needs go unmet.\n\nDemoralization through perception, however, is the most commonly referred to means of demoralization even though its operation and results like political warfare and psychological warfare in general, are the most difficult to gauge. That is the form of demoralization that is referred to as a tool of psychological warfare, and it is most commonly implemented through various forms of propaganda. Propaganda as a tool of demoralization refers to influencing opinion through significant symbols, through means such as rumors, stories, pictures, reports, and other means of social communication. Other means of political and psychological warfare, such as deception, disinformation, agents of influence, or forgeries, may also be used to destroy morale through psychological means so that belligerents start questioning the validity of their beliefs and actions.\n\nWhile demoralization may use propaganda, deception, disinformation, agents of influence, forgeries, or any other political warfare tool in isolation to accomplish its ends, a strategic demoralization effort will use more than one of these means as determined by its target and will not limit itself to the strict limits of attacking another belligerent's morale. A strategic demoralization campaign will navigate what Harold D. Lasswell describes as roughly three avenues of implementation: divert the hatred normally directed towards the enemy, thereby denying a unified outlet of frustration; sow seeds of self-doubt (classic demoralization); and provide a new focus of hatred and frustration.\n\nA strategic demoralization campaign should tailor its strategy to the specific target and situation.\n\nAn important precursor to successful demoralization is an effort to deny the target the ability to project frustrations and hatred upon a common enemy. Such efforts will affect the tendency of the target's citizenry to project their discontent towards a common enemy identified by their government. As a result, frustrations will build until it is necessary to divert them elsewhere, and seeds of doubt are then sown in the minds of the citizenry who now question the capability of their leadership in identifying the most ominous threat.\n\nThe operations of the German \"Gazette des Ardennes\", published in occupied areas of France during World War I, are an example of this aspect of strategic demoralization. The \"Gazette des Ardennes\" regularly published propaganda articles that sought to deny the French of a German enemy image. Articles would carry such themes as: the Kaiser has always been known and respected for promoting peace, even among the British and French intellectual elite; the Kaiser is a kind and gentle family man; \"all the stories about the German barbarities are poisonous lies\"; German occupying soldiers are kind to and loved by French children; and Germans have an irrepressible love of music, religion, and morality that permeates wherever they are. The themes are illustrative of \"defense by denial\".\n\nAlso possible to use is \"defense by admission accompanied by justification\". The technique would make the \"Gazette des Ardennes\" admit that a German atrocity occurred but then publish accounts that the event was exaggerated in earlier reports, that such events occurred in every army, and occurred least often in the German army.\n\nArticles that attempted to justify German unrestricted submarine warfare as an unavoidable consequence of the British blockade are also examples of defense by admission and justification.\n\nCausing self-doubt or doubt in a cause is the simple definition most commonly ascribed to demoralization. It is only one aspect of a successful strategic demoralization campaign but is the most pronounced and essential part.\n\nAs noted by Lasswell, \"the keynote in the preliminary spade work is the unceasing refrain: Your cause is hopeless. Your blood is spilt in vain.\" Propaganda can be an indispensable tool in fostering an environment of doubt and anxiety.\n\nPropaganda may be used to ensure the antagonist is the most feared party, give a feeling of nonworth to the target, exploit internal fissures inherent within the target group or use the element of surprise to show a target population that their leadership and cause are unable to protect them from the impending enemy threat.\n\nMany studies have been conducted that indicate fear is one of the most widespread psychological traits, and that trait can be manipulated for the purposes of demoralization if it can be expanded into anxiety.\n\nFor anxiety to demoralize, it must result in a distancing of individuals or groups from their cause or leadership because they no longer believe them capable of offering a solution to the source of their anxiety. Real and conscious threats that normally inspire disquiet and fear can be made to cause anxiety and borderline neurosis through the use of such propaganda tools as fables and rumors.\n\nUsing multiple tools of political warfare, such as deception, disinformation, agents of influence, or forgeries, can expedite the onset of anxiety by overwhelming the target with a constant onslaught of information that the current cause or leadership is incapable of relieving the anxiety now felt. That anxiety cannot be calmed through a rational explanation of facts and is exacerbated by such an approach. The newly-onset anxiety places mass groups of individuals on the border of neurosis and can make them feel conflicts inherent within society or their past.\n\nAs a result of contradictions and threats, \"man feels accused, guilty.\" The target will then begin their search for a cause that will provide a sense of righteousness. The pivotal moment of a successful demoralization campaign is when the target is doubt-ridden and anxious, the point at which individual members of a citizenry or group are detached from their current loyalty to their state or cause, and they are then able to be focused in another direction more suitable to the antagonist's needs.\n\nIf not done properly, the manufactured sense of anxiety can both backfire on antagonists and cause the subject to cling more closely to their original cause or government.\n\nThe most powerful strategy of demoralization is diversion, but that is an extremely difficult and multifaceted operation. Lasswell notes, \"To undermine the active hatred of the enemy for its present antagonist, his anger must be distracted to a new and independent object, beside which his present antagonist ceases to matter.\" \n\nBecause it is such a distinct change, the diversion of hatred towards a new target is necessarily predicated upon the antagonist both diverting hatred away from themselves and fostering a level of anxiety that cannot be mitigated by their existing cause or leadership.\n\nOnce antagonists met the two precursors of demoralization, it is possible to \"concentrate upon the particular object of animosity about which it is hoped to polarize the sentiment of the enemy.\" The diversion of hatred can be towards an ally, towards the end may's government or governing class, or towards antistate sentiment to foster secession of minority nationalities if they exist.\n\nThe attempt to exacerbate relations between allies is one method of diverting hatred from an enemy and was attempted by both the Allied and Central Powers in World War I. The Germans made efforts to dig up historical animosity between the French and British, using such themes as the British were just letting the French bleed for them and the British intended to stay on French soil, and they offered a German-French alliance against the British and to expand French colonial domain at the expense of the British Empire.\n\nMeanwhile, the Allies tried to exacerbate the relationship between Austria-Hungary and Germany, using such themes as separate peace talks were being held with Austria-Hungary, Austria-Hungary had a plethora of food while Germans starved, Germans thought of Austrians as slaves, and the familiar promise of territorial expansion if Austria-Hungary abandoned their German alliance.\n\nThe antagonist can also attempt to divert hatred and frustration upon the target's government or ruling class, the most widely attempted method. One technique of diverting such frustration is to convince a target that their government or leadership is committing unjust and immoral acts, which is especially effective if the antagonist can convince their target that their leadership has forced them to commit equally unjust and immoral acts out of trickery or desperation.\n\nIf successfully and fully implemented, the leadership of a cause can be made sufficiently troublesome to inspire revolution when there will be insufficient capacity to exercise active hatred towards the external enemy. Diverting frustration to one's own leadership is often the method most commonly seen in wartime propaganda, as the photographs below attest. With the implementation of modern warfare in World War I and all its associated stresses, \"every belligerent took a hand in the perilous business of fomenting dissension and revolution abroad, reckless of the possible repercussions of a successful revolt.\"\n\nExamples from World War I included German forces providing revolutionary literature to Russian prisoners of war that were expected to return through exchange or release, French use of propaganda leaflets to demonstrate how unaffected by war the Kaiser and his family were, technical encouragement and amplification of national dissent, Wilsonian propaganda stressing peaceful settlement terms, British planting of stories attesting to underground German resistance movements and their subsequent oppression by the German government, propaganda deflecting war guilt, propaganda exposing or exaggerating the desired postwar peace terms, and the promotion of the belief that infidelity was rampant among soldiers and their families back home.\n\nFinally, the antagonist can attempt to divert frustration towards the growth of secessionist causes, which is possible in heterogeneous nations. Attempts are made to fan the flames of discontent one segment of the nation feels towards another.\n\nAn example was the \"Congress of Oppressed Habsburg Nationalities\" in Rome in April 1918, all delegates signing a \"Declaration of Independence\". Or actions were widely reported in US and European circles. Another successful example of this was the encouragement of Zionism as a means of securing Jewish support for World War I via the Balfour Declaration. The Central Powers likewise tried to encourage Ukrainian, Irish, Egyptian, North African, and Indian secessionist movements, but all efforts ultimately failed.\n\nThere are many tactics of pursuing a strategy of demoralization, the nature of the target and the environment at the time determining the best method to employ. Below is a nonexhaustive list to demonstrate tactics of pursuing demoralization, but any tactic of political and psychological warfare may be used in pursuit of demoralization as appropriate, to the situation:\n\nMorale can be difficult to maintain, in large part by the diffuse nature of demoralization attacks, but a strong leadership can largely mitigate any such attacks against their group's morale. Morale will quickly deteriorate if members of the group perceive themselves as victims of injustice or indifference on part of their leadership, or they perceive their leadership as being acting ineptly, ignorantly, or for personal ambition.\n\nAs noted by Angello Codevilla, the clearest indicators that morale can withstand a demoralization campaign are also hallmarks of a well-led organization, and can be explained through five main questions:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6276244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6276244", "title": "Enterprise, Transport and Lifelong Learning Department", "text": "Enterprise, Transport and Lifelong Learning Department\n\nThe Enterprise, Transport and Lifelong Learning Department (ETLLD) was a former Scottish Executive department responsible for economic and industrial development, further and higher education, skills, lifelong learning, energy, transport and digital connectivity until 2007.\n\nPhilip Rycroft was appointed head of the department in May 2006 following the retirement of Eddie Frizzell. Rycroft was previously Head of Schools Group within the Scottish Executive Education Department.\n\nIt was the only Scottish Executive department based in Glasgow.\n\nThe Cabinet Secretary for Finance and Sustainable Growth (currently John Swinney MSP), assisted by the Minister for Transport and Infrastructure (currently Keith Brown MSP) and the Minister for Enterprise, Energy and Tourism (Jim Mather MSP) has responsibility for the Enterprise and Transport elements of the current Directorates. The Cabinet Secretary for Education and Lifelong Learning (currently Mike Russell MSP) has responsibility for the Lifelong Learning portfolio.\n\nETLLD was formerly the Enterprise and Lifelong Learning Department but was extended in May 2003 to include responsibility for Transport, in recognition of transport's crucial importance to economic growth.\n\nAfter the SNP won office in 2007, the Department was scrapped and replaced by the Education and Lifelong Learning Directorates.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "514560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=514560", "title": "Equality Party (Quebec)", "text": "Equality Party (Quebec)\n\nThe Equality Party () was a political party in Quebec, Canada, that promoted the use of English in Quebec on an equal basis with French. Four Equality Party members were elected to Quebec's National Assembly in 1989, as part of an anglophone reaction to changes made by the governing Liberals to Quebec's language law. The party had no success in subsequent elections, and stopped organizing after the 2003 Quebec election.\n\nThe party was formed in 1989 as a reaction to then-Premier Robert Bourassa invoking the \"Notwithstanding clause\" of the Canadian constitution to override a Supreme Court ruling overturning parts of the Charter of the French Language (commonly known as \"Bill 101\"). The court ruling would have allowed languages other than French to appear on store signs and outdoor advertising; the government instead allowed other languages only on small signs inside shops. Another issue that fed Equality Party support was the Quebec Liberal Party's forcing anglophone Members of the Quebec National Assembly (MNAs) to condemn a report from the Official Languages Commissioner suggesting Quebec anglophones felt \"humiliated\" by laws such as Bill 101.\n\nThe Equality Party's platform called for equality of both languages (French and English) in Quebec, opposing Bill 101 which made French the sole official language of Quebec, imposed restrictions on the use of English on public signs, and required children to attend school in French unless one of their parents went to school in English in Canada. The Equality Party drew virtually all of its support from elements of Quebec's anglophone minority, and only ran candidates in electoral districts with very high anglophone populations.\n\nThe party first came to prominence in the 1989 general election, when it won four seats on Montreal Island in the National Assembly with 3.7% of the popular vote. Along with its then-sister party, the Unity Party (which ran candidates outside the Montreal Island), it won 4.7% of the provincial popular vote. The winning candidates were Gordon Atkinson, Neil Cameron, Richard Holden and party leader Robert Libman, who won popular votes ranging from 41 per cent to 58 percent in their respective ridings.\n\nThe party did not receive official party status in Quebec's National Assembly, being eight members short of the required twelve necessary for recognition, nor had they received 20% of the popular vote which would have otherwise qualified them for official status. The Liberals and Parti Quebecois agreed that the Equality Party caucus would receive some of the privileges of an \"official party\", including having their members' seats in the National Assembly placed together and office space allocated close to each other, as well as some research funding; however, they were not allocated a guaranteed number of questions in the National Assembly's daily Question Period, meaning that their opportunity to speak was left to the Speaker's discretion. (This arrangement was repeated in later elections when Action Democratique du Quebec won fewer seats in the National Assembly than required for official status).\n\nThe four members took an active role in National Assembly debates, most notably when Party leader Robert Libman made headlines by using his Parliamentary privilege to reveal the details of confidential, money-losing contracts signed between Hydro-Québec and some of Quebec's aluminum producers.\n\nThe party voted against Bill 150, a law providing for a referendum on sovereignty for Quebec, (which was later cancelled in favour of a referendum on the Charlottetown Accord).\n\nThe Unity Party merged with the Equality Party on May 7, 1990, increasing the party's membership to what the party reported as 16,000. The party's published financial statements, however, reported that only $7795 in membership dues were collected in 1990, down 75% from 1989 and enough to account for only 1,559 dues-paying members.\n\nFrom 1990 onward, the party suffered from frequent and public infighting, clashing over personalities and over issues such as whether to support the Meech Lake Accord and Charlottetown Accord. This peaked when Richard Holden, Equality MNA for the overwhelmingly Anglophone Westmount riding, left the party and eventually defected to the Parti Québécois, a party which had little support in Westmount due to its support of Bill 101 and Quebec independence.\nThree of the Equality Party's four elected members, including Libman, the party's leader, quit the party before the next election.\n\nIn addition to the infighting and defections, the Equality Party's \"raison d'être\" arguably vanished when the government amended the Charter of the French Language in 1993 to allow for more prominent English language text on commercial signs, so that the law no longer needed the use of the \"notwithstanding clause\" to withstand constitutional challenge. \nFurthermore, opinion polls prior to the 1994 election showed a close race between the two largest parties (the Liberals and the Parti Québécois), with the PQ explicitly promising an independence referendum if it was victorious. All of these factors encouraged Equality Party voters from 1989 to switch their support back to the Liberals in 1994.\n\nThe Equality Party never repeated its electoral success of 1989. Cameron, the party's sole remaining MNA, was defeated in the 1994 general election. Two subsequent general elections in 1998 and 2003 did nothing to improve the party's fortunes.\n\nThe party continued to exist for another decade in a desultory fashion. Its remaining members held meetings, maintained a website and ran candidates for office until 2003. During these years, the party promoted political positions such as the reversal of the 2002 municipal mergers on the island of Montreal. Following the party's poor showing in the 2003 election, its leader, Keith Henderson, announced he would resign once a new leader was chosen, which never occurred. The party stopped holding meetings, updating its website or running candidates in elections, but continued to file annual reports with the Director General of Elections until it was removed from the list of registered political parties at the end of 2012.\n\nIn 2013, a group attempted to restart the party under the name of \"Equality Party 2.0 - Parti Égalité 2.0\", but abandoned efforts due to lack of support.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34726921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34726921", "title": "Future of the Russian Navy", "text": "Future of the Russian Navy\n\nFollowing the dissolution of the Soviet Union in the 1990s, the Russian Navy struggled to adjust Cold War force structures while suffering severely with insufficient maintenance and a lack of funding. However, improvements in the Russian economy over the last decade have seen a significant rise in defence expenditure and an increase in the numbers of ships under construction with a focus on blue-water vessels.\n\nAn extensive rearmament program was implemented since 2011, with the Russian Defence Ministry expected to procure 100 warships by 2020. The purchase of 20 submarines, 35 corvettes and 15 frigates is planned. The nature of the other 30 ships is as yet unknown. The Black Sea Fleet will receive 18 new surface ships and submarines, including , s, and . There are also plans to lay down Project 21631 small missile boats and \"Steregushchiy\" class corvettes. This state arms program also provided funds for the purchase of two \"Mistral\" class assault ships. Furthermore, older vessels such as the \"Kirov\" class battlecruisers reportedly would also undergo overhauls and modernisation to bring them back into active service after spending over a decade laid up in reserve.\n\nIn early 2013 it was reported that the navy was to receive 54 new warships of various classes and 24 submarines by 2020.\n\nIn 2005, it was announced that the Russian Navy was planning a class of two to four new aircraft carriers, the production of which could start in 2013–14 for initial service entry in 2017. Jane's said it was not clear whether \"this was a funded programme\". In mid-2007, the new Navy chief announced plans to reform the country's naval forces and build a blue-water navy with the world's second largest fleet of aircraft carriers, aiming to create 6 aircraft carrier strike groups in the next 20 years.\n\nRussian President Dmitriy Medvedev stated in 2008 that Russia intended to build nuclear aircraft carriers in the next decade. However Russia currently does not have a yard capable of building aircraft carriers. All previous Soviet aircraft carriers were built in what was then known as the Nikolayev South Shipyard (Shipyard 444) at Nikolayev in what is now Ukraine. On August 2, 2010, Vladimir Vysotskiy stressed their importance: \"If, for example, we do not have an aircraft carrier in the North, the combat capability of the Northern Fleet's guided-missile submarines will be reduced to zero after Day One because the submarines' principal adversary is aviation.\"\n\nSpeaking in Saint Petersburg on June 30, 2011, the head of United Shipbuilding Corporation, a Russian state holding company, said his company expected to begin design work for a new carrier in 2016, with a goal of beginning construction in 2018 and having the carrier achieve initial operational capability by 2023. Several months later, on 3 November 2011 the Russian newspaper \"Izvestiya\" reported the naval building plan now included (first) the construction of a new shipyard capable of building large hull ships, after which Moscow will build four nuclear-powered aircraft carriers by 2023. The spokesperson said one carrier would be assigned to the Russian Navy's Northern Fleet at Murmansk, and the second would be stationed with the Pacific Fleet at Vladivostok.\n\nIn February 2015, Russian media said that the Krylov State Research Center in St. Petersburg was on its way towards developing another aircraft carrier. The design was under conceptual testing in Krylov’s laboratory. There was no announcement of what shipyard would be able to build the carrier. The super-carrier project has been code-named Project 23000E or \"Shtorm\". The program appears temporarily suspended or slowed down.\n\nModernization of existing Kirov-class battlecruiser heavy missile cruisers is ongoing with work continuing on the \"Admiral Nakhimov\" at Severodvinsk. \nConstruction of the fourth Slava-class cruiser has been suspended for some 20 years at the shipyard in Ukraine. Not likely to ever be completed.\nProject 23560 Lider-class class multi-purpose cruiser/destroyer is in design development.\n\nIn 2014 it was reported that the specification had been signed off for a new anti-air destroyer. Twelve ships of the 10,000 tonne \"Lider\"-class are planned to enter service, split between the Northern and Pacific Fleets. There will be versions powered by nuclear or conventional power and they will carry the ABM-capable S-500 SAM and Kalibr (SS-N-30) and (SS-N-27) cruise missiles. The Lider-class destroyer concept is a project of JSC Severnoye. In May 2015, Jane's reported that the Krylov State Research Center has also developed the Project 23560 destroyer design concept. \n\nInitial reporting said that the ships would enter service in 2023-2025. In January 2018 however it was reported that detailed design phase will start after 2020 and construction in 2025.\n\nAn initial order of six Project 22350M are under construction for the Russian Navy. The Northern Shipyard has thus far announced having received orders for six units. The first of the class, \"Admiral Gorshkov\" was laid down in 2006, launched on 29 October 2010 and originally planned to be delivered by 2012. The second unit has been launched, the third and fourth are under construction. As of June 2017 the \"Admiral Gorshkov\", lead ship of class, is undergoing trials with delivery to the fleet expected by year's end.\n\nIn addition, six were ordered and under construction at Yantar Shipyard in Kaliningrad, with the first laid down on 18 December 2010 and scheduled for delivery by 2013. These frigates will all serve in the Black Sea Fleet.\n\nLead ship, the \"Admiral Grigorovich\", was commissioned on 11 March 2016.\n\nJane's Defence Weekly and NavyRecognition.com reported in March and January 2015 respectively that the Project 20385 (Gremyashchy), Project 21631 (Buyan-M), Project 22350 (Admiral Gorshkov), and Project 11356M (Admiral Grigorovich) class corvettes and frigates are dependent on German and Ukrainian engines. Projects 20385 and 21631 use German diesel engines, while the 22350 and 11356M use Ukrainian-assembled turbines. Given the sanctions and standoff over the War in Ukraine, these components may not be available from 2015. As a result, two more Steregushchiy class corvettes, the seventh and eighth of the class, were laid down in February 2015. The Steregushchiy class uses Russian-built Kolomna engines.\n\nThe \"Gremyashchiy\" was launched on 30 June 2017.\n\n\nThe State Arms Program 2011–2020 was expected to build and deliver up to 24 submarines (both nuclear and conventional) to the Russian Navy.\n\nBorey SSBN\n\nThree boats of the ballistic missile submarines were initially under construction, the first was under construction since 1996 with completion was expected in 2008. The lead boat, \"Yuriy Dolgorukiy\", was launched in April 2007, began sea trials in June 2009 and was commissioned as a part of the Northern Fleet in 2012. The second boat, \"Aleksandr Nevskiy\" was scheduled to be delivered to the Pacific Fleet in 2012 The third was named \"Vladimir Monomakh\". The \"Yuriy Dolgorukiy\" is operational with the Northern Fleet, while the \"Aleksandr Nevskiy\" and \"Vladimir Monomakh\" serve in the Pacific Fleet. The fourth unit was scheduled to be laid down in 2010. The mainstay of the SSBN force, the Delta IVs, joined the fleet during 1985–91. While the service life of an SSBN normally is twenty to twenty-five years, without maintenance, it may be as short as ten to fifteen years. As of the end of 2017 with three units operation and the fourth \"Knyaz Vladimir\" launched, an additional four units are under construction on the ways at SEVMASH, Severodvinsk.\n\nBefore 2012 there were only about ten nuclear submarine patrols a year, each lasting three months at most and usually a lot less. Most have not gone far from Russian waters and some were by recently built SSNs (nuclear attack subs) or SSGNs (SSNs equipped with cruise missiles) and not by SSBNs.\n\nYasen SSN\n\n12 nuclear attack submarines are to be delivered to the Russian Navy. \"Severodvinsk\", keel laid down on 21 December 1993, was the first boat of the class slated for launch in 1998 delayed due to problems in financing. In 1996 work on the submarine appeared to have stopped completely. Some reports suggested that as of 1999 the submarine was less than 10 percent completed. In 2003, the project received additional funding and the work of finishing the submarine continued. In 2004 it was reported that the work on the submarine was moving forward, but due to the priority given to the new , \"Severodvinsk\", the lead unit of the \"Yasen\" class would not be ready before 2010. In July 2006 the deputy chairman of the Military-Industrial Commission, Vladislav Putilin, stated that two \"Yasen\"-class submarines were to join the Russian Navy before 2015. On 24 July 2009 the work on a second Yasen submarine, named \"Kazan\", was started. On 26 July the Russian navy command announced that one multipurpose submarine would be laid down every year, not necessarily of this class, starting in 2011. The launch of the first boat of this class and the beginning of sea trials was reported in September 2011.\n\nOn November 9, 2011 Russia signed a contract for four additional \"Yasen\" class submarines to be delivered by 2016.\n\nAs of mid-2017 the \"Severodvinsk\" is operational, \"Kazan\" has been launched, and four additional units are under construction.\n\nKilo\n\nFollowing on from the success of the Kilo class submarines, improved design Project 636.3 units are being built for the Russian Navy. Six s have been built for the Black Sea Fleet, and work has begun on six additional units for the Pacific Fleet.\n\nOn 18 May 2013 Russian Navy Commander-in-Chief Admiral Viktor Chirkov announced that the Russian Navy would get the first air-independent propulsion system for Project 677 Lada-class submarines by 2016-2017. He stated that the Central Design Bureau Rubin is now at work on the propulsion system which is expected by 2015-2016 but the first three Lada-class submarines will have classic diesel-electric propulsion. The Amur-class is advertised as an export version of the Lada-class.\n\nKalina\n\nProject Kalina is a new on AIP, H2-O2, submarine design, by TsKB Rubin and others\n\nHaski (Husky)\n\nNew SSGN\n\nThe first of an unknown number of new class of amphibious ships was laid down in 2004 and was launched in May 2012. The ship will be delivered to the Navy in 2013. The \"Ivan Gren\" was delivered to the Navy in June 2018. \nIn 2010 it was announced that work on a second unit had begun.\n\nRussian officials negotiated a purchase of four s. On 24 May 2010, the Russian Defense Minister said that Russia was in pre-contract discussions with Spain, the Netherlands, and France on purchasing four \"Mistral\"-class ships. It was planned to have one ship built abroad, two with the participation of Russian shipbuilders, and at least one built in Russia. The Minister also said that the first ships of this type would be based in the Northern and Pacific Fleets. On December 24, 2010, Russian President Dmitriy Medvedev announced France as the winner of a tender to build four \"Mistral\"-class ships for Russia. As the MISTRAL project continued it was plagued with controversy with arguments that the ships are not required, that Russian ship builders could have built a similar vessel and that they cost too much. In January 2013, Russian Deputy Prime Minister for the Defence Industry Dmitriy Rogozin was critical about the purchase of French helicopter carriers Mistral. The contracts signed in 2011 had been also criticized by first deputy head of the Military-Industrial Commission Ivan Kharchenko, who blamed former Defence Minister Anatoliy Serdyukov. \"It is very strange that we, given our climate, are purchasing ships to transport troops that do not work at temperatures below seven degrees,\" Rogozin said at a general meeting of the Academy of Military Sciences on Saturday 26 January 2013.\n\nOn 18 May 2013 it was announced that the second Mistral-class helicopter carrier would be named \"Sevastopol\" and join Russia's Black Sea Fleet in 2017. It was speculated that it would be based in the Novorossiysk naval base which Spetsstroy, the strategic infrastructure builder, was to complete by that time. Other sources reported that both of the first two Mistral-class helicopter carriers, the \"Vladivostok\" and the \"Sevastopol\" would be assigned to the Pacific Fleet in 2014 and 2015 respectively after their completion in France. In Vladivostok, Berth 33 was being renovated for them.\n\nOn 3 September 2014, French President announced that due to Russia's \"recent actions in Ukraine\", the two ships would not be delivered. In November 2014, François Hollande placed a hold on the delivery of the first \"Mistral\" to Russia in view of the conflict in east Ukraine. Hollande set two conditions for delivery: the observation of a ceasefire in Ukraine and a political agreement between Moscow and Kiev. On 5 August 2015 it was announced that France was to pay back Russia's partial payments and keep the two ships initially produced for Russia.\n\nRussia has announced its own, Lavina-class landing ship designed by Krylov (which studied and study much of the Mistral and many projects of Amphibious and LHD LHA Aircraft and Helicopter Carriers and other types of vessels)() equivalent more or less to a Mistral and smaller variant (with different or more specifics) Priboy-class landing ship minor class with half of the DWT and dimensions looking like an upgraded Greno or an LHD of same type, designed by Nevskoe Project Bureau. Four of the 'Lavina' ('Avalanche') class ships have been discussed, with construction possibly beginning in 2016 or 2018.\n\nAt least four Alexandrit class minesweepers are planned. The first of the class has been ordered and is expected to be launched sometime in 2012. In January 2018 Deputy Chief of the Naval Shipbuilding Directorate Captain Mikhail Krasnopeyev said that the Russian Navy is planning to acquire 10 new Alexandrit-class (Project 12700) minesweepers by 2027 and 30 by 2035.\n\nBK16, Raptor (CB90 analogue), Antares RA (modified stealth Muravej, more than half Visby in length), Project 12150 Mangust, Pr 14310 Mirazh, Grachonok-class anti-saboteur ship, other corvettes frigates patrol ships and boats.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11556364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11556364", "title": "He who does not work, neither shall he eat", "text": "He who does not work, neither shall he eat\n\nHe who does not work, neither shall he eat is a New Testament aphorism originally by Paul the Apostle, later cited by John Smith in Jamestown, Virginia, and by Lenin during the Russian Revolution.\n\nThe aphorism is found in the Second Epistle of Paul the Apostle (with Silvanus and Timothy) to the Thessalonians, in which Paul writes:\nthat is,\nThe Greek phrase means \"is not willing to work\". Other English translations render this as \"would\" or \"will not work\", which may confuse readers unaccustomed to this use of the verb \"will\" in the archaic sense of \"want to, desire to\".\n\nIn the spring of 1609, John Smith cited the aphorism to the colonists of Jamestown:\n\nCountrymen, the long experience of our late miseries I hope is sufficient to persuade everyone to a present correction of himself, And think not that either my pains nor the adventurers' purses will ever maintain you in idleness and sloth...\n\n...the greater part must be more industrious, or starve...\n\nYou must obey this now for a law, that he that will not work shall not eat (except by sickness he be disabled). For the labors of thirty or forty honest and industrious men shall not be consumed to maintain a hundred and fifty idle loiterers.\n\nAccording to Vladimir Lenin, \"He who does not work shall not eat\" is a necessary principle under socialism, the preliminary phase of the evolution towards communist society. The phrase appears in his 1917 work, \"The State and Revolution\". Through this slogan Lenin explains that in socialist states only productive individuals could be allowed access to the articles of consumption.\n\nIn accordance with Lenin’s understanding of the socialist state, article twelve of the 1936 Soviet Constitution states: \n\nIn Lenin’s writing, this was not so much directed at lazy or unproductive workers, but rather the bourgeoisie. Marxist theory defines the bourgeoisie as the group of those who buy the labor-power of workers and engage it in the process of production, deriving profits from the surplus value thus expropriated. Once communism was realised, that is, after the abolition of property and the law of value, no one would live off the labor of others.\n\nNeither did the principle apply to those rendered incapable of work by old age or disability. These groups would have a right to society's products because they were not at fault for their condition. The elderly, in particular, had worked during their youth, and so could not be denied life's basic necessities. The Soviet state would then, at least theoretically, provide a basic level of social security.\nThe principle was enunciated in the Russian Constitution of 1918.\n\nLeon Trotsky wrote that: \"The old principle: who does not work shall not eat, has been replaced with a new one: who does not obey shall not eat.\" The context of this statement was a criticism of the Stalinist regime that Trotsky opposed, not a prescription for society.\n"}
{"id": "34930146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34930146", "title": "History of European consuls in the Ottoman Empire", "text": "History of European consuls in the Ottoman Empire\n\nThe European consuls in the Ottoman Empire began as informal relationships between merchants residing in the Empire and the Sultan. The relationships were defined by the ahdname granted by the Sultan which would stipulate the religious freedom and exemption from the taxes that non-Muslim subjects had to pay. The religious implications of these relationships diminished over time as the commercial aspects took over.\n\nThe Italian city states initially appointed resident ambassadors to other Italian states to create some peace between the conflicting powers. From the twelfth-century onward the merchants from the Italian city states would organize and select a consul to represent them in the Ottoman Empire, but soon after these consuls were more formally chosen by the government. By the fifteenth-century other Western European nations adopted similar practices and diplomacy has been characterized as a Western European phenomenon ever since. Another cause of the consular phenomena was the military hardening of borders which meant that Europeans could not infiltrate another area by force so they relied on economic and commercial ties to gain entry. In the early stages of these consular relationships the Ottomans' did not reciprocate in sending consuls to European capitals, partly because European Christians were less welcoming towards Muslims than Muslims were towards Christians.\n\nThe consuls and the trading communities, of which they were in charge, had wide implications for European-Ottoman relationships. Since consuls and merchants would remain in Istanbul (and other Ottoman cities) for longer periods of time, they would return home with a more accurate depiction of the Ottoman culture than the earlier negative depiction. Reporting home with political news was one of the consul’s primary responsibilities which also helped in re-shaping the opinions of the Ottoman’s held by Europeans. A new respect–not necessarily for Ottoman people, but for the Ottoman accomplishments—eventually broke the old barriers and Ottomans appointed representatives to European states.\n\nThe Venetians appointed principal consuls to important commercial centers like Aleppo and Alexandria because this was where there was a large nation of their merchants. They also appointed vice-consuls to less important areas where they had less commercial interest. The principal consuls were in contact with their home country’s authorities, while the vice-consuls had a more informal position. The consuls were Venetian nobility and appointed on a three-year contract which for the most part was strongly adhered to. Also, it was important that they did not have commercial interests or have ties to the merchant community in the area to which they were appointed, but frequently that was not observed in practice. The consuls would have a fixed salary and no other means of income. The Venetian consul would have a council of twelve to assist him and would be responsible for approving all expenditures of the nation’s treasury. Also in the event of the consuls death, the council would appoint a vice-consul until a new consul could be sent from Venice. Through the sixteenth and seventeenth-centuries the Venetians practiced a policy of neutrality which was only possible through their strong diplomatic corps—chiefly the bailo (who acted as consul and ambassador). The bailo needed personal skills that would allow him to be-friend high ranking Ottoman officials in order to ensure Venetian interests. One of the main tasks of the bailo was to collect information on the Ottomans’ politics and social life and report back to the Venetian senate regularly. Second in importance was his consular role of promoting and protecting Venetian interests. The bailo was in charge of all Venetians in the Ottoman territory, but he would appoint consuls and vice consuls where he thought it was necessary.\n\nThe French appear to have kept most intact the medieval tradition of the consul—a representative of the nation of merchants. When the state assumed control of the consuls in the later sixteenth century they diminished the privileges of the nation of merchants. The primary function became financial. However, the state then lost control again over the consuls and the position became a personal one that could be succeeded by an heir. The French consuls did not have fixed incomes like the Venetians, which caused them to \"farm\" the position out to someone able to pay a higher price for it. This meant that the nation of merchants was potentially represented by someone who was unqualified. The consul had no legal right to collect supplementary taxes. However a voluntary agreement could be reached, but if one member of the French nation refused to pay or lodged a complaint against the consul it would sabotage the agreement. The French had success in the Ottoman Empire notably through their political and diplomatic initiatives rather than their commercial ones. The consuls were responsible for promoting French trade in the Levant through persuasion (gifts, donations, favours etc..) The French consuls were not allowed to participate in trade and commerce themselves, but they were to report political and economic information back to the French government. However, the consulate was frequently headed by corrupt consuls and many of them did engage in commerce.\n\nBefore the Dutch had their own consuls in the Levant, they traded under the French Capitulations of 1569 until they sent Cornelius Haga as a Consul to Istanbul in 1611. The States-General was responsible for appointing the consul, but the Levant merchants in these cases were closely consulted. The poor payment system for the consuls disrupted the potential successes of the relationship between consul and merchant community. The merchants requested changing to the Venetian fixed salary payment, but the States-General went against their wishes and tried to find other means of income. This posed problems for the Dutch consuls, and there are many reports of cases where consuls exerted their authority over the nations members who did not want to pay consulate and embassy dues. Despite internal struggle within the Dutch nation, it had a good relationship with the Ottomans and in 1804 Sultan Selin III (1789–1807) appointed the first resident representative to Amsterdam.\n\nThe English consuls were appointed by and affiliated with the Levant Company. The consuls were not in any way a representative for the crown, but merely representing the interests of the Company. It is interesting that if any issues arose with the Ottoman officials, the nation of merchants would meet with the consul to reach a decision on what to do and the company would never interfere in the decisions of the nation. It was not until 1605 that the Company gained the formal right to appoint consuls and vice consuls which were solely concerned with the nation of merchants who were members of the Company. If a consul was absent or died the vice consul would remain in charge until a new consul could be sent. England had the simplest hierarchy when it came to consular representation because the Company was in charge of the nation and consuls below, whereas the crown used other representation abroad.\n\n"}
{"id": "32619474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32619474", "title": "Human rights in Solomon Islands", "text": "Human rights in Solomon Islands\n\nSolomon Islands is a sovereign country in the South West Pacific consisting of many islands with a population of 561,231 (2013). It became self-governing from the United Kingdom in 1976 after three previous attempts at forming a Constitution. The Constitution of Solomon Islands was enacted in 1978. This however led to conflicts between cultures and armed conflict in the late 1990s forced a review of the 1978 Constitution. This review resulted in the Federal Constitution of the Solomon Islands Bill 2004 (SI) and various other amendments, the Human Rights Chapter however remained unchanged.\n\nAs per The Constitution of Solomon Islands Statutory Instruments Chapter II outlines the Fundamental Rights and Freedoms of the Individual:\n\nHowever, there are Human Rights concerns and issues in regards to education, water, sanitation, women and persons who identify as lesbian, gay, bisexual or transgender (LGBT)\n\nSolomon Islands joined the United Nations in 1978. It is party to four of the nine core human rights treaties - the International Covenant on Economic Social and Cultural Rights (ICESCR), the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Racial Discrimination (CERD), the Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women (CEDAW) and the Convention on the Rights of the Child (CRC). In May 2011, Solomon Islands issued a standing invitation to the UN Special Procedures.\n\nIn a 2011, the UN released a UPR which outlined the current availability of education as being limited for the poor island state. Despite the government’s 2010 policy statement, which committed to ensuring all Solomon Islanders have equal access to quality education, this is an ongoing issue that is still being addressed. Statistics show that overall primary attendance rate at 65.4%, this increased in urban areas to 72%.\n\nBecause of the ‘Fee Free Primary Education’ policy of the government, primary education is free and financed by overseas donors. However it is not compulsory. Article 15 of ICESCR requires compulsory primary education, as does article 28 of the CRC. In the report’s recommends that basic primary quality education should be compulsory.\n\nThere is also limited access to education for children with disabilities. This is a cultural and social issue as well as a human rights concern. The traditional view is that persons with disabilities are cared for and looked after, therefore not required or expected to be an active part in the community. This charitable approach has led to the majority of children with disabilities having no real access to education. Following the Government’s 2010 policy, the UPR urges the government to give this the highest priority to give children equal opportunity.\n\nAnother issue integrated to this is the lack of certified teachers who do not take interest in what they are doing. In a 2010 UNICEF mid-term report on education it was estimated that 50% of teachers in the Solomon Islands are unqualified. The report recommends that the government allocate more of its budget on developing an adequate infrastructure such as training professional teachers, having more schools and classrooms as well as ensuring teachers are paid on time.\n\nArticle 28 1(b) of the CRC requires governments to encourage the development of different forms of secondary education, available and accessible to every child, and to take appropriate measures such as the introduction of free education and offering financial assistance in case of need. In a 2006-2007 survey, 29 out of every 100 children (12–18 years old) attended secondary school. This figure was worse in rural areas and people surveyed stated that secondary school fees were too expensive for families. The UPR report recommended increasing accessibility to secondary school.\n\nThe issue of safe drinking water is one that affects 355,000 Solomon Islanders, although fresh water is available year round in some places, the islands often suffer from severe water shortage. Water-borne disease and lack of proper sanitation is a major risk and concerned locals have commented that sickness caused from unsafe drinking water was preventing children from attending school. Around half of primary schools have access to safe drinking water. Article 15 ICESCR sets out the criteria for the full enjoyment of the right to water including availability, quality and accessibility.\n\nIn Honiara, the capital of Solomon Islands, there are many overcrowded slums as a result of people moving to urban areas in search of opportunities. There was not adequate infrastructure to deal with the influx of inhabitants during the 1970s and 1980s. This has resulted in the unavailability of clean water, leaving residents faced with a long and sometimes dangerous journey to find it. These people often opt instead to wash clothes, dishes and themselves in dirty water, putting them at risk of disease.\n\nThe right to sanitation is an integral part of the right to an adequate standard of living, defined in Article 11(1) of the ICESCR. As well as relating to right to health, housing and water, the UN CRC recognizes the right for access to sanitation. According to a 2009 survey of Honiara, only a quarter of residents had adequate toilet facilities. Around 55% relieved themselves either in the sea, a river, or nearby toilets.\n\nAlthough the Solomon Islands are party to CEDAW, women’s rights and access to adequate sanitation are limited. Women are not treated equally to men as witnessed by Amnesty International which reported they witnessed 100 young women and girls as well as 2 elderly men collect water from a broken pipe. When asked why no men were collecting the water, they replied that the men were drunk or playing sports. This was also found in another slum where the men were also high on drugs.\n\nThe lack of adequate water supply has led to rise of violence against women have to walk further and more often to get water or to go toilet, bathe or to obtain drinking water. This is an issue especially in Honiara’s slums where men attack women either physically or sexually making them too afraid to use communal toilets at night. Rape and other abuse is generally unreported to police as women and girls fear reprisals from their attackers. The government has acknowledged the ongoing violence towards women and in 2010 approved a national policy to eliminate violence against women. This was a result of lobbying by women’s groups.\n\nThe lack of a women’s right to privacy in Solomon Islands is more prevalent in the slums with shared bathing, washing and toilets facilities. There are reports of not being able to wash themselves adequately and being spied on or whistled at. A lack of privacy is demeaning and embarrassing.\n\nWhen the issue of inadequate housing and facilities especially regarding the slums was broached to government officials, they explained it was the fault of the people and not of the government. The slums sit mostly on Honiara City Council Land, which the ministry of land, housing and survey is responsible for. This issue of state negligence has not been resolved.\n\n"}
{"id": "58413079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58413079", "title": "Human rights in Sweden", "text": "Human rights in Sweden\n\nHuman rights in Sweden are largely protected in their Constitution and ratified international law. The three Constitutional acts concerning human rights are Chapter 2 of the Instrument of Government, \"Regeringsformen\", the Freedom of the Press Act, \"Tryckfrihetsfsӧrordningen\" (1949) and Fundamental Law on Freedom of Expression, \"Yttrandefrihetsgrundlagen\" (1991). Additionally, the European Convention on Human Rights has been incorporated into Swedish domestic law since 1995. \n\nSweden regards itself as a global leader in protecting and advocating human rights. According to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, their position on human rights is strongly linked to democracy and the rule of law. In May 2018 an independent human rights expert of the United Nations, Obiora C. Okafor, praised Sweden's contribution to human rights internationally due to its financial support to international organisations and promoting human rights. Sweden has been regarded for its soft power diplomacy in promoting new human rights norms and challenging the international state of affairs. \n\nSweden is not exempt however from domestic human rights breaches. Key areas for concerns include discrimination, race and social issues, and protection of asylum seekers.\n\nThe first protection of human rights in Sweden dates back to the mid-14th Century with the \"Konungabalk\" (\"King's Chapter\") found in the \"Landslagen\" (the General Law of the Realm). The \"Konungabalk\" was Swedish's first written constitution. It contained an oath for all succeeding monarchies in Sweden to \"defend justice and truth and put down injustice, falsehood and lawlessness\" and to \"keep faith with the commonality of the realm, to injure neither rich nor poor in life or limb except after trial in accordance with the law of the realm, neither to deprive any man of his goods except by due legal process\". The royal oath expressed an intention to adhere to fundamental principles of human rights such as the right to trial and protection of life and limb. \n\nThis expression formed the basis of Article 16 of the Instrument of Government of 1809. Article 16 was the only proviso relating to human rights in the old Constitution. The Article reads: \n\n\"The King shall maintain and further justice and truth, prevent and forbid iniquity and injustice; he shall not deprive anyone or allow anyone to be deprived of life, honour, personal liberty or well-being, without legal trial and sentence; he shall not deprive anyone or permit anyone to be deprived of any real or personal property without due trial and judgement... he shall not constrain or allow to be constrained the conscience of any person, but shall protect everyone in the free exercise of his religion...\". \n\nAlthough this is more a \"general declaration of principle\" it shows Sweden's early recognition of fundamental principles of human rights. \n\nThe death penalty, often considered to fundamentally abrogate human rights was practised in Sweden for a long time. During the 16th and 17th Centuries 68 offences carried the death penalty, including crimes of theft, forms of adultery and religious offences against God. It wasn't until 1921 that the Riksdag formally abolished the death penalty for crimes committed in peacetime. The last state execution took place in 1910. \n\nSweden's legal protection of human rights developed significantly in the 20th Century with the modernisation of the Constitution and the Fundamental Law on Freedom of Expression and the Freedom of Press Acts. Protecting human rights in the Constitution means that ordinary law is subordinate and may not operate if they are contrary to the rights set out. Human rights set out in Sweden's constitutional law are difficult to amend and require a more thorough process than ordinary law.\n\nSweden's modern Constitution was enacted in 1974 with the inclusion of Chapter 2 named 'Fundamental rights and Freedoms'. The chapter protects four types of rights: positive freedoms, negative freedoms of opinion, physical rights and rule of law guarantees. (pg 102). Article 1 protects positive freedoms of opinion including freedom of speech, freedom of information, freedom of assembly, to name a few. Articles 2-3 protects negative freedoms of opinion such as coercion regarding political, religious, cultural, or other opinions as well as the requirement for consent for citizens to have their political opinions publicly registered. Articles 4-8 outline the physical rights to integrity and freedom of movement such as no capital punishment, no one to be subject to torture or no citizen to be refused entry to Sweden. Articles 9-11 outlines the rule of law principle that ensures each citizen is entitled to procedural guarantees. (pg. 102). Articles 12-13 protect against discrimination against people on grounds of ethnicity, gender, sexuality. Article 15 protects individuals right to private property and the right to public access of land or buildings. \n\nFreedom of press is a well established right in Sweden being protected since 1766. In 1766 Sweden incorporated freedom of the press into its constitution, being the first country globally to do so. This constitutional law abolished censorship in printed publications as well as guaranteeing public access to government documents. \n\nIn 1949 the Freedom of Press Act was enacted and superseded the existing acts. Article 1 of Chapter 1 on the freedom of press outlines that it is to be \"understood to mean the right of every Swedish citizen to publish written matter, without prior hinderance by a public authority or other public body, and not to be prosecuted thereafter on grounds of its content\". In 2018 Sweden was ranked the second on the World Press Freedom Index.\n\nThe Fundamental Law on Freedom of Expression 1991 is largely similar to the Freedom of Press Act set out above. Both are fundamentally protecting the right of expression and speech. Whilst freedom of speech has been protected in Sweden since 1766, it initially only extended to written published documents. There was no other mention of other types of freedom of speech until 1974. Article 1, section 1 of the Act sets out the aim of the Act to guarantee every citizen's right to publicly express themselves. The Act protects all Swedish citizens right to express themselves freely on the radio, TV, films, video and the internet. The Act also lists freedom of expression offences such as defaming someone or threatening domestic security through publication.\n\nInternational law and conventions provide a key framework for protecting human rights in Sweden. Sweden abides and is signatory to multiple international agreements concerning human rights. International standards for human rights found in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the European Convention on Human Rights, the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights all influence Sweden's domestic and foreign human rights policy. The United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights is the foundational document for modern human rights and has largely influenced international conventions and treaties that Sweden is signatory to. \n\nThe European Convention on Human Rights (EHCR) which was incorporated into Swedish domestic law from 1 January 1995 forms the cornerstone of Sweden protection of rights and freedoms. Sweden is a \"dualist state\" in its adoption of International Law such as the ECHR thereby requiring a special act by the Swedish government for treaties and conventions to take effect domestically. Since Sweden has ratified the EHCR this in practice means that Swedish Court's must interpret cases with respect to the articles of the EHCR. The Convention guarantees specific right and freedoms as well as prohibiting negative freedoms and unfair practices. Some of the rights include: right to life, freedom from torture, right to a fair trial, freedom of expression and right to education. \n\nSweden's position on human rights has influenced their foreign policy and bilateral relations with other countries. In recent times Sweden has adjusted its relations with other states due to their domestic abrogation of human rights. \n\nIn 2015 relations between Saudi Arabia and Sweden became tense after Margot Wallström, foreign minister of Sweden, delivered a speech to Swedish parliament stating that human rights were violated in Saudi Arabia and that she would pursue a feminist foreign policy. Saudi Arabia recalled its ambassador from Sweden and stated it would no longer issue business visas for Swedish citizens. The diplomatic affair resulted in the termination of a long-standing arms deal between Saudi Arabia and Sweden. Saudi Arabia was the third largest non-Western buyer of Swedish arms and bought approximately $37 million euros of arms in 2014. Sweden prioritised its human rights policy, in particular in regards to women's rights in their relations with Saudi Arabia. \n\nAnother instance where Sweden has favoured human rights obligations over bilateral relations was in the early 2000s when Uganda proposed a bill that instituted the death penalty or life imprisonment for homosexuality. Sweden condemned the legislation and adjusted its foreign aid to Uganda due to the \"appalling\" anti-gay law. Sweden along with donors such as the World Bank, Norway and Denmark withheld aid of approximately $110 million from Uganda due to the law.\n\nSweden has been vocal in criticising Russia for their human rights violations. The relationship between Sweden and Russia has been termed \"cool neighbours\" due to past conflicts and diverging ideologies and views. Although relations between the two states is relatively stable in recent times, Sweden is critical of some of Russia's policies. According to Sweden's ambassador to Russia, Peter Ericson, Sweden has \"a lot to teach Russia in terms of free speech\".\n\nAccording to Amnesty International some areas for concern of human rights in Sweden include discrimination, rape and sexual violence and the protection of asylum seekers. \n\nSweden's current anti-discrimination laws have eliminated the term race, replacing the term with \"ethnicity\" to denote \"national or ethnic origin, skin colour or other similar circumstances\". Michael McEachrane in a 2018 study considers the exclusion of the term race means Sweden is not able to \"recognise, monitor, or address structural racial discrimination even as a \"possible\" universal human rights issue\". McEachrane outlines the nature of racial discrimination pertinent to Sweden with housing segregation of non-European backgrounds such as African or Middle Eastern living in low-income neighbourhoods.\n\nSweden has recently been criticised in a report by the UN Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination (CERD) over \"racist hate speech against Afro-Swedes, Jews, Muslims and Roma\". In particular the report found that hate crimes remain high with an 11% increase in reported hate crimes from 2014 to 2015.. In 2016 it was reported that approximately 440 hate crimes with an anti-religious motive, specifically anti-Islamic were committed. \n\nA study by Martha F. Davis and Natasha Ryan in 2017 found that Swedish authorities had evicted more than 80 Roma settlements during 2013 and 2016. These evictions were on the grounds of poor sanitation and access to water, both considered fundamental human rights. The study concluded that Sweden had violated its human rights obligations under both European and international law. Under the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights access to water and sanitation are fundamental human rights for all. The 2017/2018 Amnesty Report also noted the discrimination faced by Roma citizens who are denied access to basic services such as health care and education by the State. The Roma citizens continue to be subject to harassment and prejudice from European nationals. \n\nSweden's protection of asylum seekers and refugees has historically been viewed as \"progressive and ambitious\". They received the largest amount of refugees and asylum seekers per capita in 2013 among the countries in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD). Like many European countries with the 2015 Syrian refugee crisis Sweden adopted new border controls and cut benefits that refugees had previously had. Sweden introduced an amendment to their asylum seeker policies which prevented entitlement to \"accommodation, subsistence allowance and special aid\" for adult asylum seekers with no children and who have had their applications rejected. These emergency measures breached asylum-seekers fundamental rights such as the right to family reunification. \n"}
{"id": "55459695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55459695", "title": "Information Privilege", "text": "Information Privilege\n\nInformation privilege is the idea that access to information can be based on an individual’s status, affiliation, or power. Access to information can be blocked by various means including geography, access to technology, financial standing, and identity. The type of information that is obstructed is often the most skilled, researched, and credible. This creates a power dynamic where there are parts of a society who can benefit from this access and those who are marginalized because of a lack of access. Information privilege is closely tied with information literacy. Information literacy is the ability to identify, locate, evaluate, and use information to solve an issue, as such, access to information is a necessary human right to be information literate. Various human rights declarations include a component of information literacy and/or access to information. In addition, the librarian profession is founded on and advocates for access to information.\n\nBelow is a list of national and international statements declaring access to information as a basic human right that should be upheld:\n\n\n\nThe Association of College and Research Libraries developed the Framework for Information Literacy which is meant to guide the instruction of information literacy to college students. The ACRL first mentions the term \"information privilege\" in the frame titled Information Has Value. It discusses the legal and socioeconomic circumstances that can influence the production of, and access to, information. It encourages learners to recognize their own information privilege and acknowledge that some individuals and groups are underrepresented especially in academic publishing. Some argue that the ACRL Framework does not go far enough to teach learners of information literacy about the social injustice issue of lack of access. It is advised that more explicit instructions be included on how learners can combat the injustice in access to information.\n\nResearcher and educator Laura Saunders defines three barriers to access as physical, social, and cognitive/intellectual barriers. Physical barriers to access include not only geographical barriers but also access to the technology that will allow a person access to particular sources. As the internet became more popular and information became more readily available online, companies developed database subscription services that allowed individuals to access only the most reliable and well researched information. However access to this information was hidden behind a paywall where only a person with financial means or an affiliation with an education institution could have access. \n\nSaunders' idea of social barriers to access implies there is a barrier to information based on a cultural or socioeconomic circle of communication. Marginalized groups may not participate in a society they are distrusting of and therefore the information sources they trust may not be as vast or diverse. Access is limited because they only receive information from a small circle of people they trust. They may also not ask for help as readily as more privileged groups do. James Piccininni has stated that this social exclusion of groups of people in \"social, economic, and political spheres\" creates a power dynamic that dictates how information is created, distributed, and accessed. The third barrier to access is cognitive/intellectual access and ties in best with information literacy. Without learning the skills to locate, evaluate, and use information, a person may be susceptible to misinformation, propaganda, fake news, and general false statements, leaving them at a disadvantage and an inability to find reliable information. An advantage to providing access to information within a community is that it allows the voices of the most brilliant within a demographic to be heard when they might otherwise have been discounted or marginalized.\n\nMuch of the most reliable and current information in a particular field is found behind a paywall where only persons associated with an educational institution or professional organization, or the monetary means to purchase journal subscriptions has access to this information. The inherent issues of academic publishing created a growing advocacy for the Open Access movement.\n"}
{"id": "3313407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3313407", "title": "International Policy Statement", "text": "International Policy Statement\n\nThe International Policy Statement of Canada is a policy statement, released on April 19, 2005, declaring Canada’s intentions, attitudes, and plans to increase its global engagement in international security and foreign relations. Specifically, Canada’s International Policy Statement focuses on diplomacy, development, defense, and commerce. According to the statement, Canada's defensive involvement will increase interaction with; rising global powers, fragile and failed states, putting emphasis on protection. The section on Canadian defense also includes combating the threat of global terrorism, renewing attention to peace operations, and expanding the defense of North America. The International Policy Statement's main development goal focuses on global poverty reduction. The commerce section outlines Canada's efforts to become a more active member of the global economy and the plan to cut and eventually cancel the national debt. Canada's interest in becoming a bigger part of the international community is motivated by past events such as its lack of influence in the Cold War and the recent rise in global Terrorism.\n\nThe need for the IPS was born on September 11th, 2001, when the western world was reminded of their vulnerability at the hands of Al-Qaeda. This unprecedented attack on North American soil profoundly shocked Canada and the U.S, especially considering Canada’s dependence on America for defense. When Canadian troops were deployed with the U.S. military to Afghanistan, it challenged previously understood ideas about Canadian Foreign policy. An \"unexpected war\" against terrorism, coupled with the invasions of Iraq by allied forces, stretched Canadian soldiers thin, to the extent that it forced Canada to seriously consider changing foreign policy to combat rising global insecurity. This insecurity coupled with an upcoming federal election, gave way to the liberal government introducing the International Policy Statement.\n\nThe defense section of the international policy statement is a guide for the Canadian forces in their operations, assisting the Department of National defense in the development of a sustainable long term program. The Policy emphasizes three broad roles for the Canadian forces; Protecting Canadians, Defending North America with the United States, and contributing to international peace and security. The statement is meant to address and build on previous public consultations regarding defense such as those carried out during the 2002-03 Defense update. International, and domestic security will be bolstered by an additional 5,000 regular personnel as well as 3,000 reserves. The largest perceived international threats to security include: terrorism, failing and failed states, weapons of mass destruction and regional flash-points such as North Korea and the Israeli-Palestine conflict.\n\nCooperation with U.S and Protecting North America\n\n· Strengthening ability to counter threats in Canada; improving monitoring effectiveness, controlling air activity and maritime approaches to NA\n\n· Improving US, Canadian military relations, combined training exercises and exploring enhancement options for bi-national defence\n\n· Continuing to participate in international operations overseas\n\nProtecting Canada:\n\n· Working closely with civil authorities to prevent serious threats to Canada from materializing, countering those that do materialize, and mitigating consequences of attacks\n\n· Increasing security efforts to ensure security and sovereignty of the Canadian territory, including the Arctic\n\n· Dedicating more resources, such as people, training and equipment to expand their presence across the country by improving timeliness of troop and equipment arrival\n\nInternational involvement:\n\n· Missions should support Canadian foreign policy objectives, with realistic, clear mandates with international political and financial support in order to achieve the desired end\n\n· Mission partners should have an effective consultation process including the discussion of clear exit strategy and a desired end\n\n· The concept of operations, effective command and control structure, along with rules of engagement are predefined\n\n· If the mission does not jeopardize other Canadian Forces\n\nThe diplomacy section focuses on remaining a very active part of the global community and economy through many specific diplomatic priorities and initiatives. The main diplomatic objectives the policy statement brings to light is the fostering of the North American partnership, making distinctive contributions to help build a more secure world, promoting and reforming multilateralism to tackle global issues, and finally re-establishing bilateral relationships beyond North America. In order to complete these objectives foreign affairs will be revamped, especially with respect to increased policy capacity, internal restructuring focused on a central North American branch in foreign affairs, establishing a \"Stabilization and Reconstruction\" task force, and pursuing public diplomacy more aggressively, making sure Canada’s voice is clearly heard and understood. Furthermore, the policy states the importance of foreign policy as it affects our food, our health, and our quality of life, giving the example of the SARS outbreak to illustrate the speed and severity of which an international problem can affect Canadian society.\n\nCanada-U.S. Foreign affairs, priorities:\n\n· Modernizing security relationship taking into account evolving threats facing North America\n\n· Identifying issues Canada and the U.S. both face\n\n· Promoting further environmental cooperation and\n\n· Getting Canadian messages across more effectively, including using the Canadian secretariat in the Washington embassy\n\nNorth American diplomatic initiatives:\n\n· Counterterrorism: continue to work with the US combining counterterrorist programs such as the National Counter-Terrorism Center in the U.S. and Canada’s integrated threat assessment centre.\n\n· The North American Aerospace Defense Command agreement was renewed in 2006, Canada continues to build on NORAD by exploring with the US, new ways to enhance continental security\n\n· Control of the proliferation of WMD’s\n\n· Addressing new health threats, such as infectious disease.\n\nBuilding a secure world, priorities:\n\n· Dealing with failed and fragile states\n\n· Countering terrorism and organized crime\n\n· Combatting the proliferation and distribution of WMDs\n\n· Promoting human security\n\nBuilding a secure world, initiatives:\n\n· Building a task force responsible for quickly determining the extent of crises and how the government should respond based on expertise drawn from across government and the United States\n\nNew multilateralism, priorities:\n\n· Focus on advancing democracy through good governance, human rights protection and respect for diversity\n\n· Multilateralism should support more effective sustainable development strategies\n\n· Strengthen international development, such as health policy coordination\n\nNew Multilateralism, initiatives:\n\n· Continue strong support for new international Criminal Court and the war for crimes tribunals for Rwanda and former Yugoslavia\n\n· Providing $500,000 for the court’s mandate to investigate crimes against humanity, provide $5 million to the high commissioner’s office to strengthen monitoring capacity\n\n· Working with international security agencies, especially those in Europe with focus on protecting human rights within member countries\n\nTransformation of Foreign affairs, initiatives:\n\n· Foreign affairs will rebuild their policy capacity and ability\n\nThe IPS envisions Foreign affairs as:\n\n· Interpreter of international events and trends,\n\n· Articulating distinctive Canadian international policy,\n\n· Advocating Canada’s values abroad,\n\n· Providers of passport services\n\n· Steward of public funds, able to deliver common services abroad\n\nStrengthening Global presence consists of:\n\n· Reconfiguring network of missions in regions of interest such as Asia and the Middle east, partnering with other departments\n\n· Reversing imbalances of officers in Ottawa and missions abroad, enabled by a $42 million grant\n\n· Emphasis on third language training for international environment\n\n· Ensuring Canadian people, embassies and missions are secured in post 9/11 environment, enabled by $52 million grant\n\n· International security, especially concerning failed states, counterterrorism and proliferation of WMD\n\n· Bilateral relations allowing FA to easily move resources between countries and regions based on priorities, promoting \"whole-of-Canada\" approaches abroad\n\nFive years after the release the IPS has not been a significant factor in guiding Canada’s foreign policy, this is due largely to the\n\nshift from liberal to Conservative government, as a result of the federal election of 2006. Diplomatic changes outlined by the IPS such as the restructuring of Foreign affairs met heavy resistance in parliament. The conservative government has cherry-picked from the IPS, initiatives they agree with, such as the heavier focus on fragile states/ zones of international interest such as Israel. The Stability and Reconstruction task force was reorganized to handle high level foreign policy efforts such as Canada’s Global Peace and Security Fund. Results of diplomatic priorities have been successful in building North American partnerships and building a more secure world. Defensively, the IPS has been significantly altered, as the conservative government has focused on achieving diplomacy goals through the addition of defense and security. Canada’s top down focus on defense has had many critics, calling the military top heavy. Naval improvements seemed to lack the most, as many shortcomings and complexities, such as ship building teams not able to meet Canadian capability requirements. However, the Conservative governments interest in accelerating many defensive aspects of the IPS has revitalized the Canadian forces to the extent that they can focus on maintaining Arctic sovereignty, and security, while also effectively responding to domestic situations. Development goals such as global reduction of policy have not been reached as efforts have shifted to security in fragile and failing states, instead of focusing on food shortages. The commerce section of the IPS has been deemed insignificant in light of the housing crisis of 2006, where a lack of new ideas in the IPS forced Canada to improvise.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37298577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37298577", "title": "Iraq Historic Allegations Team", "text": "Iraq Historic Allegations Team\n\nThe Iraq Historic Allegations Team (IHAT) is a unit set up by the British government in March 2010 to investigate allegations of abuse and torture by British soldiers in Iraq. Much of these have focused on three interrogation sites near Basra operated by the Joint Forward Interrogation Team (JFIT) between March 2003 and December 2008.The inquiry was established in November 2010 after 146 Iraqi men claimed to have been tortured.\n\nThe unit is led by retired senior civilian police detective, Mark Warwick, and is made up of Royal Navy Police officers and ex-civilian police detectives and will soon be up to its full complement of 145 staff. In January 2013 G4S subsidiary G4S Policing Solutions lost its contract to provide 40 former police officers for the inquiry, and was replaced by Police Skills, a subsidiary of Red Snapper Group, who will provide 100 former detectives.\n\nIn a judicial review the Court of Appeal ruled in November 2011 that the involvement of the General Police Duties branch of the Royal Military Police (RMP) \"substantially compromised\" the inquiry because members of the unit had participated in detentions in Iraq. The armed forces minister, Nick Harvey, responded by announcing in March 2012 that the RMP staff would be reassigned and replaced by Royal Navy Police personnel by 1 April 2012.\n\nLawyers representing people alleging that they have been tortured applied for another judicial review in May 2012 to examine the claim that the Royal Navy Police are not sufficiently independent since they also took part in interrogations, and that abuses were so systemic and widespread that only a public inquiry will satisfy the UK's human rights obligations.\n\nThe case started on 29 January 2013 and a judgement was handed down by Mr Justice Silber on 24 May 2013. In this judgement it was stated that IHAT has now been structured in such a way that it can independently carry out its investigative and prosecutorial functions. It also ruled that the decision of the Secretary of State to refuse to order an overarching public enquiry could not be called into question and said more should be done to address wider systemic issues. A possible solution - coronial-type inquests once criminal proceedings are complete in a particular case, or once it is evident that particular allegations will not lead to a criminal prosecution - was suggested for consideration by the Secretary of State.\n\nIn 2016 Martin Jerrold, Managing Director of the Red Snapper Group was called as a witness to an oral evidence session by a parliament select committee. A subsequent Daily Telegraph article highlighted the profits made by the company which has contracts worth £4.8 million a year and its apparent ineffectiveness in that over its six years of existence it has yet to produce a single successful prosecution. Its 127 staff can be paid through limited companies potentially reducing tax.\n\nIn 2017, Defence Secretary Michael Fallon announced that the investigations would be shut down within months after MPs called it an \"unmitigated failure.\" According to the Defence Committee report, IHAT had taken up over 3,500 allegations of abuse despite most not having any credible evidence. The report found failings in the conduct of investigations and concluded that those being investigated had suffered unacceptable stress, had their lives put on hold and careers damaged.\n\n"}
{"id": "57041280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57041280", "title": "Kwok Nai-wang", "text": "Kwok Nai-wang\n\nRev. Kwok Nai-wang (Chinese: 郭乃弘; b. 1938-) is a senior pastor of the Hong Kong Council of the Church of Christ in China (HKCCCC). He is the former general secretary of Hong Kong Christian Council (HKCC), the former director of the Hong Kong Christian Service (Chinese: 香港基督教服務處) from 1980 to 1988, and the founding director of the Hong Kong Christian Institute (Chinese: 香港基督徒學會, or known as HKCI), a Christian activist group founded in 1988 to promote democracy.\n\nKwok was the youngest son of Kwok Chung Yu (Chinese: 郭宗宇), a deacon of China Congregational Church.\n\nHe graduated in the University of Hong Kong in 1963 and the Yale Divinity School (YDS) in 1966. In the same year, he was ordained at the Centre Church on-the-Green at New Haven, Connecticut. Upon his return to Hong Kong, he took up the post as a pastor at Shum Oi Church, the Church of Christ in China in Shek Kip Mei from 1966 to 1977. He has also taught in the Chung Chi College from 1966 to 1973. During 1977 to 1988, he was the general secretary of HKCC, before he founded his own NGO, HKCI, to further promote the interaction of society and the Church in Hong Kong. He has also served as the director of the Hong Kong Christian Service between 1980 and 1988.\n\nAfter retirement, he has taught in Lutheran Theological Seminary in Hong Kong from 2001 onwards. Besides teaching, he also held the post of senior minister at the Kowloon Union Church (KUC) from 2006 to 2008. In 2010, he received the Lux et Veritas award from the YDS, in honor of his contribution to the transformation of the Hong Kong church.\n\nHe was also one of the first ten supporters of Occupy Central with Love and Peace, an pro-democracy organization that urges for the universal suffrage of the Chief Executive of Hong Kong.\n\nHe was married to Dorothy Louise McMahon in 1966 and was divorced in 1973. He remarried with Dorothy Wan (Chinese: 汪曼華) in 1993. Dorothy Wan was a headmaster at CCC Yenching College. He was diagnosed with lymphoma in 2015 and has since then written a book on his reflection of his cancer journey.\n\n"}
{"id": "52551878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52551878", "title": "List of research stations in the Arctic", "text": "List of research stations in the Arctic\n\nA number of governments maintain permanent research stations in the Arctic. Also known as Arctic bases, Polar stations or Ice stations, these bases are widely distributed across the northern Polar region of the earth.\n\nHistorically few research stations have been permanent. Most of them were temporary, being abandoned after the completion of the project or owing to lack of funding to continue the research. Some of these facilities are constructed on land or on ice that rests on land, while others are drifting ice stations built on the sea ice of the high latitudes of the Arctic Ocean.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39398466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39398466", "title": "MDP Youth Wing", "text": "MDP Youth Wing\n\nMDP Youth Wing, is the youth movement of the Maldivian Democratic Party in Maldives. The organization is made up of all members of the Maldivian Democratic Party who are 18 to 35 years old.\n\nOn June 26, 2005, the Maldivian Democratic Party (MDP) became the first political party to be registered in the Republic of Maldives. Beginning with just 40 members, the MDP is now the largest political party in the Maldives, with over 40,000 registered members. The MDP prides itself in promoting policies that best reflect the priorities of Maldivians. Aside from the values of human rights and democratic practice, which are ingrained in all of the Party’s activities, the MDP’s policies encapsulate the Maldivian people’s want of a state and society that provides both security and the opportunities for innovation and success.\n\nThe MDP always strives to be in touch with the pulse of the population and with over 35% of Maldivian society being made up of individuals between the ages of 18-35, the MDP acknowledges the essential role of youth involvement in all sectors of politics and development. For instance, the MDP recognised that the pre 2008 constitution’s voting age of 21 disenfranchised large sections of the country from major national decision making processes, and thereby campaigned the Special Majlis, with success, to lower the voting age to 18. The national democratic reform process demonstrated the influence and the extent to which the youth of the country were invested in the future of a democratic Maldives, when youth from across the nation joined together in activities such as ‘Badhalakah Emmen’, ‘Youth for Change’, and ‘Wathan Edhey’, combining young people’s opinions, energy, and creativity in a powerful effort to bring change.\n\nThe establishment of the MDP’s youth wing in 2010 sought to institutionalise youth involvement across the Party. This was initiated with the election of the Youth Wing’s President, Aminath. The youth wing has since taken a leading role in policy formulation, campaigning, street activism and fundraising, using the power of art, music, and social media to make sure that the MDP continues to be a voice for the youth of the Maldives.\n"}
{"id": "17800980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17800980", "title": "Mendiola massacre", "text": "Mendiola massacre\n\nThe Mendiola massacre, also called Black Thursday by some Filipino journalists, was an incident that took place in Mendiola Street, San Miguel, Manila, Philippines on January 22, 1987, in which state security forces violently dispersed a farmers' march to Malacañang Palace in protest of the lack of government action on land reform.\n\nCalls for just and comprehensive land reforms to President Corazon Aquino sparked rallies and demonstrations participated by farmers, workers, and students. According to reports, antiriot personnel guised as civilians, opened fire on unarmed protesters killing at least 12 and injuring 51 protesters.\n\nCorazon Aquino's election to the presidency brought about the prospects of rebuilding the formal institutions of democracy and the fundamentals of the Philippine economy left weakened by the regime of the ousted President Ferdinand Marcos. Conflicts with secessionist groups in Mindanao, ballooning national debts, and severe economic inequality plagued the newly-installed administration.\n\nOne such severe manifestation of the economic inequality can be seen in the agrarian problems of the Philippines at that time. Promised land reforms during the Marcos regime failed to bring agrarian justice to the farmers. Instead, the cronies and oligarchs of the Marcos regime perpetuated the abuse of farmers and peasants. The newly raised administration acted as a fresh opportunity for minorities to supplicate their respective grievances. The farmers pushed to the new government amendments in the agrarian law. However, their representatives were told by Minister Heherson Alvarez to wait for the finalization of the new Philippine Constitution and the new Congress, which made the farmers suspicious of this indecisiveness. Furthermore, the new Congress that would supposedly make the laws that will carry out the reforms was dominated by the landlords.\n\nAquino's EO 229 failed to address the root of agrarian problems of the country, disappointing the farmers and causing them to protest against the administration.\n\nThe \"Kilusang Magbubukid ng Pilipinas\" (Filipino: \"Farmworkers Movement of the Philippines\"), a militant farmers' group led by Jaime Tadeo, demanded genuine agrarian reform from the Aquino government. On January 15, 1987, members of the \"Kilusang Magbubukid ng Pilipinas\" encamped at the Ministry of Agrarian Reform (now the Department of Agrarian Reform) in Diliman, Quezon City.The group presented their problems and demands: give land for free to farmers, end the retention of lands by landlords, and stop the amortizations of land payments. Dialogue between the farmers, represented by Jaime Tadeo, and the government, represented by Agrarian Reform Minister Heherson Alvarez, took place on January 20, 1987. Alvarez promised to bring the matter to the President's attention during the next day's cabinet meeting.\n\nThe response of the administration towards the protests, particularly in the Mendiola incident, was a violent dispersal. Whether or not it was a deliberate action or a miscommunicated order, the Mendiola incident showed that the people are dissatisfied with the self-preserving oligarchs-legislators who backed Cory's administration. The violent dispersal became a tipping point for key anti-government groups such as the National Democratic Front (NDF) to defer from the peace talks with the government, ending hopes for reconciliation for agrarian reforms\n\nOn January 22, 1987, the farmers decided to march to Malacañang Palace in order to air their demands instead of negotiating with Heherson Alvarez. Marching from the Quezon Memorial Circle, Tadeo's group was joined by members of other militant groups: \"Kilusang Mayo Uno\" (May One Movement), \"Bagong Alyansang Makabayan\" (New Patriotic Alliance), League of Filipino Students and \"Kongreso ng Pagkakaisa ng Maralitang Lungsod\" (Unity Congress of the Urban Poor). At 1:00 in the afternoon, the marchers reached Liwasang Bonifacio and held a brief presentation. At around the same time, anti-riot personnel under the command of Capital Regional Command commander Gen. Ramon Montaño, Task Force Nazareno under the command of Col. Cesar Nazareno and police forces under the command of Western Police District Chief Brig. Gen. Alfredo Lim were deployed around the vicinity of Malacañang.\n\nThe first line of civil disturbance control units consisted of policemen from the Western Police District. About ten yards behind the policemen were Integrated National Police Field Force units. The third line, a further ten yards from the second police line, consisted of a Philippine Marine Corps unit, the Marine Civil Disturbance Control Battalion. Positioned behind the Marines were army trucks, water cannons, fire trucks and two Mobile Dispersal Teams equipped with tear gas delivery gear.\n\nThe marchers numbered 10,000–15,000 by the time they reached Recto Avenue. They clashed with the police, and the police lines were breached. At this point, gunshots were heard and the marchers disengaged from the melee, retreating towards Claro M. Recto Avenue. Sporadic gunfire could be heard amidst the withdrawal. Alfredo Lim, the mayor of Manila in 2007, maintains that the Marines were responsible for the shooting.\n\nThe Western Police District, Marines, Special Weapons and Tactics team, and the Military all colluded to barricade the entrance of the Malacañang Palace. They formed multiple lines of defense, but still were not able to fend of the marching rallyists. The second line of defense, composed of the Marines, fired warning shots and threw pillbox and tear gas canisters to the supporters which started an even worse commotion. Twelve marchers were immediately confirmed dead, at least four of which were reportedly members of the New People's Army based in Bataan. At least fifty people were reportedly injured, six of which were policemen; the victims were taken to different hospitals around the area namely: Far Eastern University Hospital, Philippine General Hospital, Jose Reyes Memorial Medical Center, UST Hospital, Mary Chiles Hospital, Singian, and Ospital ng Maynila.\n\nDeath toll rose the next day, reaching eighteen deaths. Injury toll also rose to one hundred one people. As a response to the Mendiola Massacre, the Kilusang Magbubukid sa Pilipinas leaders announced that they will be staging a nationwide protest condemning the mass killing. An estimated 750,000 members and another 2,000,000 familiars were expected to join the said protest. As part of the protest, farmers were instructed to go on a farming strike, barricading major produce routes, and forcibly seizing agricultural inputs such as pesticides and fertilizers from abusive landlords. KMP leader Jaime Tadeo also demanded for the immediate resignation of then Defense Minister Rafael Ileto, Gen. Fidel Ramos, Brig. Gen. Ramon Montano, and Brig. Gen. Alfredo Lim for \"they were directly involved in the massacre.\"\n\nThen exiled President Ferdinand Marcos released a statement in Honolulu regarding the mass shooting. In his statement, he showed vexation towards the reaction of the armed forces towards the rallyists. He also accused the then President Corazon Aquino of having a private militia known as \"The Yellow Army.\"\n\nGen. Ramon Montano said in an interview that the marchers were the ones who started the shooting in an attempt to break the barricade set up by the armed forces. However, he admittedly said that the military forces might have \"overreacted\" on their response to the protesters.\n\nFollowing the bloodbath was the February 4, 1987 letter addressed to President Corazon Aquino indicating the desires of most of the Filipinos, especially the poor and the oppressed, which is \"bringing about a more progressive and stable foundation for upholding their rights.\" The KMP emphasizes on the incompetence of the Ministry of Agrarian Reform, which was strongly believed to be the primary reason why the Mendiola Massacre happened on the first place. Lastly, the letter demands for the Aquino government to mend its governance and side with the Filipinos, particularly to the peasants, workers, and the poor.\n\nThe Citizen's Mendiola Commission (CMC), formed by Aquino to investigate on the incident released its official report on the day of February 27, 1987. The commissioners noted that the rallyers did not secure a permit; the members of crowd-disturbance units were armed with pistols and armalites; armed soldiers in civilian clothes were among the crowd; some of the demonstrators carried weapons; and Jaime Tadeo, KMP's leader uttered words that incited sedition. Unfortunately, the commission failed to identify who fired on the marchers and recommended further investigation by the National Bureau of Investigation (NBI). Overall, the findings were not conclusive as to who should be held responsible for the killings. On February 28, 1987, upon completing the investigations regarding the Mendiola Massacre the Citizens Mendiola Commission suggested to President Aquino to file sedition charges to KMP Chairman Jaime Tadeo.\n\nIn protest over the massacre, the Chairman and Vice-Chairman of the Presidential Committee on Human Rights, Jose Diokno and J.B.L. Reyes, resigned from the government. Moreover, other members of the Presidential Committee on Human Rights asked for the resignation of Defense Minister Ileto and Gen. Fidel V. Ramos for their alleged complicity in the Mendiola Massacre. (Malaya, 24 January 1987)\n\nCrispin Beltran, leader of Kilusang Mayo Uno, spoke on behalf of the protesters when he stated that they wanted no more bloodshed: \"We shall return tomorrow with no weapons, but armed with courage and determination to seek justice for our slain comrades.\" True enough, the number of protesters near the Malacanang Palace increased, from the initial 10,000 to over 15,000 and growing. As a result of the increased dialogue between the government and the rallyists, more protests and the number of protesters increased, and not just at the site of the Mendiola Bridge and the Malacanang Palace. In Pampanga, an estimated 2,000 protesters barricaded highways, including the highway linking Eastern Pampanga and San Fernando, and the highway linking Porac town and Angeles City. (Malaya, 26 January 1987) Talks regarding the Agrarian Reforms were shortly suspended because both sides failed to reach a common agenda, due to the real threat to the members of both panels at the time. (Pertaining to the rebels and insurgents against the Aquino administration at the time)\n\nOn another note, the National Union of Students of the Philippines (NUSP) challenged President Corazon Aquino to sign an executive order carrying out a minimum program of land reform presented to her by the Kilusang Magbubukid. Aside from the challenge of the NUSP, KMP (Kilusang Magbubukid ng Pilipinas) Chairman Jaime Tadeo said that the Aquinos should distribute their 6,000 hectare (14,600 acre) estate in Central Luzon as a model for land reform. In response to this, President Corazon Aquino was reportedly prepared to distribute at least parts of Hacienda Luisita, and the Aquino sugar plantation as part of the supposed land reform program. In order to improve relations with the protesters, (including the groups Kilusang Magbubukid ng Pilipinas, Kilusang Mayo Uno, The August Twenty-One Movement, and the Bagong Alyansang Makabayan) President Corazon Aquino allowed the protesters to cross the Mendiola Bridge and march towards the Malacanang Palace. (Malaya, 27 January 1987)\n\nAs a response to the incident, in 1987, the Aquino Government implemented the Comprehensive Agrarian Reform Program (CARP). It was passed as \"an agriculturally based economically driven\" reform. This reform applied to all types of agricultural land, both public and private, regardless of tenure arrangement and crops produced. It aimed to redistribute 9,773,870 ha of land to 3,713,110 beneficiaries.\n\nHowever, CARP experienced slow implementation due to: the land evaluation processes of the time, the lack of guidelines for landowner compensation, troubles with landowner-tenant negotiations, and the lack of institutional coordination between agrarian administrative agencies.\n\nBecause of the problems in the implementation of CARP, public faith in government credibility and its capability to undertake reforms diminished.\n\nThe farmers' response to this legislation was also extremely critical. They asserted that the legislation goes against the democratic process of land ownership and protects landlord interests. They also claim that it was passed as a counter-insurgency measure, instead of for genuine social justice.\n\nIn 1988, the Manila Regional Trial Court issued a decision to dismiss a P6.5-million class suit filed by relatives of the victims. This decision was upheld by the Supreme Court in 1993.\n\nIn 2007, members of the \"Kilusang Magbubukid ng Pilipinas\" installed a granite marker at the Bantayog ng mga Bayani in Quezon City, commemorating the 20th anniversary of the incident.\n\nThe government disallowed the conduct of demonstrations at Mendiola. However, in January 2008, Mayor Alfredo Lim allowed rallies at the landmark, as long as they were held on weekends and holidays.\n\n"}
{"id": "21732097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21732097", "title": "Military Counseling Network", "text": "Military Counseling Network\n\nThe Military Counseling Network (MCN) is a non-profit GI Rights organization dedicated to being a free source of information to U.S military members concerning military regulations and discharges, with an emphasis on working with those members who are looking to apply for a conscientious objection discharge. The Network is a project of the German Mennonite Peace Committee (Deutsches Mennonitisches Friedenskomitee, DMFK) and is located in Bammental, Germany in the DMFK offices. MCN is part of the GI Rights Network.\n\nMCN exists as a source of information concerning a wide range of regulations and discharges, such as conscienctious objection, medical, and hardship to U.S military members stationed in Europe. Counselors do not provide legal advice, but can assist callers in finding lawyers in their area who can give them appropriate advice.\n\nIn September 1986, Bill Boston created the ‘Military Counseling Project – Mutlangen’ in West Germany, offering an independent source of information about GI rights and discharge possibilities for US servicemembers. In the Fall of 1987, Janice Hill and Andre Gingerich Stoner joined with Boston and created the ‘Military Counseling Network.\n\nThe first mission statement read:\n\"Presently more than 250,000 members of the US military and their families and US civilian employees are stationed in the Federal Republic of Germany. Many of them suffer violations of rights and face conflicts of conscience and other difficulties within the military.\"\n\"The Military Counseling Network advises US soldiers free of charge about their rights under military law and can assist them in achieving various discharges (conscientious objection, medical, hardship, etc.). The network of trained civilian counselors was established because soldiers are often poorly informed of their rights and until now had no source of assistance in Germany outside of the military.\"\n\"The network also seeks to build bridges and foster dialogue between US soldiers and the German population in order to break down stereotypes and prejudices. MCN counselors are committed to the principles of nonviolence. The network works in close cooperation with European, American, and international human rights, peace, church, and women’s groups\".\n\nThrough trainings in cooperation with the Central Committee for Conscientious Objectors (CCCO), the network expanded and included counselors in Berlin, Frankfurt, Mutlangen, Heilbronn, Tübingen, and Hunsrück. All of the counselors contributed on a voluntary, part-time basis, while continuing in their other jobs until August 1990, when MCN officially closed due to financial struggles and a number of counselors leaving the area.\n\nLater that month, however, Iraq invaded Kuwait, and the US military build-up in the Middle East began. Over 100,000 US troops were deployed from Europe, and the need for MCN rose. During this time, MCNs' caseload increased, and counselors were even brought over from the US to help with the counseling. By mid-1995, however, MCN was disbanded as a coordinated organization after a decrease in case load.\n\nIn 2003, as the United States prepared for another war in the Middle East, David Stutzman saw the reemerging need for military counseling. With the help of the Mennonite Central Committee, Connection e.V, and Ohne Rüstung Leben, MCN was re-founded as a project of the Deutsches Mennonitisches Friedenskomitee (the German Mennonite Peace Committee) 17 days before the War in Iraq began. Since 2004, when the Mennonite Mission Network also came on as a supporting partner, there have been two full-time personnel in the office.\n\n2008 Friedrich Siegmund-Schultze-Förderpreis (Friedrich-Siegmund Schultze Prize for Nonviolent Action) \n\nMCC Peace Office Newsletter\n\n"}
{"id": "35430281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35430281", "title": "Ministry of General Education and Instruction (South Sudan)", "text": "Ministry of General Education and Instruction (South Sudan)\n\nThe Ministry of General Education and Instruction (MOGEI) is a ministry of the Government of South Sudan that is responsible for primary and secondary education, as well as the training of educators, in the Republic of South Sudan. The incumbent minister is Deng Deng Hoc Yai, while Michael Lopuke Lotyam serves as Undersecretary.\n"}
{"id": "21971665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21971665", "title": "No Land! No House! No Vote!", "text": "No Land! No House! No Vote!\n\nNo Land! No House! No Vote! is the name of a campaign by a number of poor people's movements in South Africa that calls for the boycotting of the vote and a general rejection of party politics and vote banking. The name is meant to imply that if government does not deliver on issues important to affected communities (such as land and housing) these movements will not vote.\n\nThe \"No Land! No House! No Vote!\" campaign began as a national campaign by the South African Landless Peoples Movement (LPM) in 2004. Originally called the \"No Land! No Vote!\" campaign, the Landless People's Movement and the National Land Committee argued that voters have to be registered in their home ward to vote and that it would be impossible to vote if families were under threat of eviction or had no secure tenure. Amnesty International has reported that LPM activists were tortured during the 2004 national government elections after taking on a ‘No Land! No Vote’ position.\n\nIn 2006, the Western Cape Anti-Eviction Campaign and Abahlali baseMjondolo movements boycotted the municipal elections under the banner of this campaign. The AEC held an election day march in Cape Town saying they would abstain from voting. A march by Abahlali baseMjondolo under the banner of the \"No Land! No House! No Vote!\" campaign was illegally banned by the Durban Municipality and was met with police repression.\n\nIn 2008, the Landless Peoples Movement, the Western Cape Anti-Eviction Campaign and Abahlali baseMjondolo and the Rural Network joined to form the Poor People's Alliance. In 2009, the Alliance voted to boycott the national elections under the \"No Land! No House! No Vote!\" banner.\n\nDuring the 2009 national election campaign, the \"No Vote!\" campaign suffered severe repression by political parties and police. On 8 February 2009, the South African Police allegedly beat and tear-gassed Gugulethu residents who were holding a meeting about housing because the ANC provincial chairperson Mcebisi Skwatsha claimed they were disrupting voters registration. Eight members of the Landless Peoples Movement were also arrested in March 2009 and some claim that this is related to the \"No Vote!\" campaign by the Poor Peoples Alliance.\nIn the 2009 elections 39% of potential voters supported the ANC.\n\nAbahlali baseMjondolo called for a boycott of the 2011 local government elections. They were joined by a range of other social movements including the Western Cape Anti-Eviction Campaign, the Mandela Park Backyarders, Sikhula Sonke, the South African Unemployed Peoples' Movement and the Landless People's Movement. Local community organisations also organised vote strikes in a number of towns around the country including, for instance, King William's Town, Ficksburg, Grahamstown and Cato Ridge. A total of 42% of registered voters did not vote in the elections. It has been reported that \"Nearly 75% of South Africans aged 20–29 did not vote in the 2011 [local government] elections\" and that \"South Africans in that age group were more likely to have taken part in violent (sic) street protests against the local ANC than to have voted for the ruling party\".\n\nProponents of the \"No Land! No House! No Vote!\" campaign have explained the reasons behind their campaign. There are a variety of reasons for boycotting elections but most people who take this position say that they have been voting since 1994 but have seen no positive result from voting. They also often claim that politicians are all corrupt and that there are no political parties that represent the poor. Proponents also make the structural argument that the electoral process itself is undemocratic, that poor people must speak for themselves, and that the movements should be unaligned and pressure whichever political party comes into power.\n\nProponents of the \"No Land! No House! No Vote!\" Campaign have come up with similar slogans which have included the statements 'No Jobs!', 'No Electricity!', 'No Water!', 'No Respect!', 'No Freedom!' as part of the 'No Vote!' boycott campaign.\n\nThe Chicago Anti-Eviction Campaign has used the slogan 'No House No Vote'\n\nAccording to South African President Jacob Zuma \"If you do not vote, you are depriving yourself of a freedom we have fought for and given you. You are deciding to oppress yourself...you are failing yourself and the nation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44368341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44368341", "title": "Notinism", "text": "Notinism\n\nThe notinism to be read NOT IN ISM calls for freedom and autonomy in art expression against the entertainment industry dogmas.\n\nThe notinism is an artistic movement created in the early 90's by Holeg Spies, Thierry Saint-Paul and Alexandra Mercier. These three artists created and developed the notinism art movement throughout the installation and experimental movie, \"Notinism.org\" which toured the world as far afield as India and Japan, showing at venues such as the National Museum of Modern Art of France (Pompidou Centre), the Canon Urban Lenz Exhibition in Tokyo and contemporary art exhibitions in Europe and New York. The \"notinism\" has been considered as a new form of surrealism merging a musical field of vision and video paintings with a mysterious crypted website www.notinism.org .\n\n"}
{"id": "15822591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15822591", "title": "Object detection", "text": "Object detection\n\nObject detection is a computer technology related to computer vision and image processing that deals with detecting instances of semantic objects of a certain class (such as humans, buildings, or cars) in digital images and videos. Well-researched domains of object detection include face detection and pedestrian detection. Object detection has applications in many areas of computer vision, including image retrieval and video surveillance.\n\nIt is widely used in computer vision task such as face detection, face recognition, video object co-segmentation. It is also used in tracking objects, for example tracking a ball during a football match, tracking movement of a cricket bat, tracking a person in a video.\n\nEvery object class has its own special features that helps in classifying the class – for example all circles are round.\nObject class detection uses these special features. For example, when looking for circles, objects that are at a particular distance from a point (i.e. the center) are sought. Similarly, when looking for squares, objects that are perpendicular at corners and have equal side lengths are needed. A similar approach is used for face identification where eyes, nose, and lips can be found and features like skin color and distance between eyes can be found.\n\nMethods for object detection generally fall into either machine learning-based approaches or deep learning-based approaches. For Machine Learning approaches, it becomes necessary to first define features using one of the methods below, then using a technique such as support vector machine (SVM) to do the classification. On the other hand, deep learning techniques that are able to do end-to-end object detection without specifically defining features, and are typically based on convolutional neural networks (CNN).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21480173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21480173", "title": "Operation West End", "text": "Operation West End\n\nOperation West End was the first sting operation done by Tehelka in 2001, an Indian news magazine known for its investigative journalism. It was done in order to make the murky defense deals of the then ruling party NDA public. \n\nThe special correspondents of the magazine filmed several corrupt defense officials and politicians of ruling National Democratic Alliance (NDA) government including Bhartiya Janta Party then President Late Bangaru Laxman. The operation took seven and a half months to complete.\n\nThe magazine created a fictitious London based arms manufacturing company known as West End International. The strategy adopted by the investigative journalists was to get in touch with a person in the lowest end of the defence chain and then move upwards. Therefore, the operation started with the Senior Section Officer P. Sashi who was posted in the Ministry of Defence. His desire to make money from arms dealers provided the starting point for journalists from Tehelka. After getting some monetary incentive, P. Sashi took the team to Brigadier Anil Sehgal’s house in New Delhi. Sehgal was then the Deputy Director in Directorate General of Ordnance and Supply (DGOS), an important army procurement post. Both these officials helped the team with two vital things; information about a defence product required by the Indian army and how to move ahead in order to sell their products.\n\nBrigadier Sehgal demanded to be entertained in a five-star hotel to which the team agreed. The former brought in Lt. Colonel Sharma, who was an army officer posted in Air Force procurement section. After the meeting, Brigadier Sehgal demanded Rs. 200,000 to give documents related to the procurement of hand-held thermal cameras and other equipment that the company might be interested in supplying to the Indian Army. After accepting the money he also advised on how to proceed in the matter of bidding for the hand-held thermal cameras. During the conversation, Brigadier Sehgal said that the company would have to pay to everyone and some percentage would also reach the then Defence Minister George Fernandes. P. Sashi also provided confidential documents related to the procurement of ammunition, tubes, clothing and helicopters.\n\nOn November 26, 2000, the team was introduced to Deepak Gupta, the son of Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) trustee R. K. Gupta. Deepak Gupta assured that he would help the UK based company bag the project and talked about his influence in the government. In the subsequent meetings he elaborated on his functioning and said that he worked from the Prime Minister's Office (PMO).\n\nThe team then met R. K. Gupta, the RSS trustee and a big defence middleman. He was quite vocal about his relationship with the Prime Minister Atal Bihari Vajpayee and Lal Krishna Advani and said that both of them were tenants at his properties. He had also helped establish the RSS headquarters in 1967 in Jhandewala, Delhi. He assured the team that he will get their work done and will pay the bribe on their behalf to the Defence Secretary, Joint Secretary, Under Secretary, the then treasurer of the party Ved Prakash Goyal, BJP’s national president Bangaru Laxman. He did not wanted to involve Brajesh Mishra as his price was rupees one crore.\n\nOn December 23, 2000, journalists posing as representatives of the arms manufacturing company held their first meeting with the then BJP chief Bangaru Laxma. They then met him several times over the period of one week and promised to compensate him for his recommendation to the Defence Ministry of Supply regarding hand-held thermal imagers. On January 1, 2001, Laxman accepted One lakh rupees at BJP’s office for pursuing their proposal. On January 7, 2001, the final meeting held between the fake representatives and Laxman.\n\nThe bribes paid during the operation:\n\nOn March 13, 2001, Tehelka released video CDs of the sting operation that led to political storm in India. Subsequently, Bangaru Laxman had to resign from the position of BJP president. It emerged that the defence deals were not driven by considerations of national security, but by the greed of political and bureaucratic people. The defence minister George Fernandes and his party president Jaya Jaitly resigned. Mamata Banerjee, an important ally of the coalition quit the government.\n\nThe government booked Tehelka under many sections and used Inland Revenue, Enforcement Directorate and Intelligence Bureau but could not find anything. Investors of the website were also investigated and Tehelk’s financer Shanker Sharma was imprisoned without any charge. The journalists who carried out the investigation were also imprisoned.\n\nOn April 27, 2012, a special CBI court convicted the former BJP President, Bangaru Laxman of corruption charges. On April 28, 2012, the court sentenced him to four year of rigorous imprisonment and also imposed a fine of one lakh rupees.\n\nThe investigation into the sting operation took a dramatic turn when it was revealed that prostitutes were supplied to three defence officials. Both Bhartiya Janta Party (BJP) and Samata Party condemned it and raised the questions on ethical side of investigative journalism. However, Aniruddh Bahal, the journalist who was a part of the operation said, “When the demand came from armymen (to have prostitutes) we were foxed. We resisted it. We were baffled. But the demand was so forceful we could not proceed further without catering to their demand.” They decided to provide prostitutes to show that officials were ready to go to any level.\n"}
{"id": "7315270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7315270", "title": "Osaka International Peace Center", "text": "Osaka International Peace Center\n\nThe , also known as , is a peace museum established in August 1991 based in the city of Osaka, Japan. It focuses on the destruction of the city during World War II and the broader themes of the tragedy of war and the importance of peace. It is funded by Osaka city and Osaka Prefecture.\n\nIn 2015, after pressures by members of the Japan Innovation Party, exhibits were changed; the section on U.S. air raids in Osaka Prefecture between December 1944 and August 1945 was expanded and items related to Japan's actions in Asia were removed. The spirit of the museum was radically altered and transformed: it became a conservative museum.\n\nThe museum was established in 1991 and was rare in Japan for showing the atrocities committed by Japan as well as the tragedies suffered by Japanese people. In 2000 it hosted a symposium by the Osaka-based historical revisionist group \"Society to Correct the Biased Display of War-Related Materials\" with Shūdō Higashinakano of Asia University as the keynote speaker. A Chinese government spokesperson stated that hosting the event would hurt the Osaka bid for the 2008 Summer Olympics. Osaka later became the first city to be eliminated from the bidding process, with the games later being awarded to Beijing.\n\nSince opening, the museums exhibits were described as \"masochistic\" by conservative groups. In September 2013 the museum unveiled a plan to put more emphasis on the Bombing of Osaka during World War II. There was a possibility that exhibits dealing with Japanese war crimes may be reduced. When it became clear that the plans were to \"drastically\" reduce the material on Japan's aggression, the \"Japan Times\" printed an editorial calling on the museum to reconsider and stated that \"The plan by the center — which is dedicated to studies of the war and efforts to foster peace — contradicts its purported independence.\"\n\nExhibition Room A, on the second floor of the Osaka International Peace Center, covered the bombing of Osaka and other factors of Japanese domestic life during the last four years of the Pacific War, mentioning neighborhood associations, school mobilization, nationalistic textbooks, and civil defense measures.\n\nExhibition Room B, on the first floor, covered the Greater East Asia Co-Prosperity Sphere and was critical of the Imperial Japanese Army's actions in East Asia. One panel was entitled \"Invading the Asian Continent,\" and was accompanied by displays of the Imperial Japanese Army's involvement in the Second Sino-Japanese War. There is also a section on the annexation of Korea in 1909 and Korea under Japanese rule, ending with a note that \"Japan has still many unsolved problems\" regarding the human rights of the 680,000 resident Koreans in Japan today.\n\nExhibition Room C, on the third floor, advocated the end of \"disputes and wars over ethnic, religious, or ideological differences.\" These exhibits focus on the threat of nuclear weapons, but also argue that starvation, poverty, and degradation of the global environment are threats to world peace. To emphasize these threats to peace, the museum includes a replica of the Doomsday Clock.\n\nAfter renovations in 2015, the exhibit areas became:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34747556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34747556", "title": "Pakistan Peoples Muslim League", "text": "Pakistan Peoples Muslim League\n\nThe Pakistan Peoples Muslim League (PPML), formerly known as the Pakistan Muslim League (Like-Minded) and abbreviated as PML (LM), was a political party in Pakistan led by former Chief Minister of Sindh Arbab Ghulam Rahim. The party was a breakaway faction of the Pakistan Muslim League (Q). It emerged in 2009 after many members of the Pakistan Muslim League (Q) became disillusioned by the questionable decisions of the Chaudhry's of Gujrat who were alleged to be making important decisions without consulting any of the senior party members and making the party an undemocratic \"family party.\" In May 2013, the party merged with the Pakistan Muslim League (N).\n\nMany PML (Q) heavyweights including Arbab Ghulam Rahim, Hamid Nasir Chattha, Khurshid Mahmud Kasuri, Humayun Akhtar Khan, Haroon Akhtar Khan, Salim Saifullah Khan, Humayun Saifullah Khan, Gohar Ayub Khan, Omar Ayub Khan, Kashmala Tariq, Ata Muhammad Maneka and many other like-minded politicians got together to form what they believed was the legitimate version of the PML (Q). This created a huge vacuum in the original PML (Q) and in 2011, more than half of its members in the Punjab Assembly decided to ditch their original party and join hands with the PML (N) to support Chief Minister Shahbaz Sharif when the Pakistan Peoples Party was kicked out of the Punjab Government. In 2010 the Likeminded faction began its effort to unite factions of the Muslim League under one umbrella and managed to create an electoral alliance known as the Muttahida Muslim League which included Sheikh Rasheed Ahmed of Awami Muslim League, Makhdoom Syed Ahmad Mehmood of Pakistan Muslim League (Functional), and Ijaz-ul-Haq of Pakistan Muslim League (Zia). In May 2012 the Likeminded Group officially entered into an electoral alliance with Pakistan Muslim League (N) in a bid to unite all Muslim League factions and defeat opposing parties such as PTI and the ruling coalition of PPP and PML (Q).\n\nIn March 2009, Pakistan Muslim League (Like-Minded) renamed as Pakistan Peoples Muslim League but it eventually seized to exist as it merged with Pakistan Muslim League (N) in May 2013.\n"}
{"id": "1574561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1574561", "title": "Parliamentary debate", "text": "Parliamentary debate\n\nParliamentary debate (also referred to as \"parli\") is an academic debate event. Many university-level institutions in English-speaking nations sponsor parliamentary debate teams. In addition the format is currently spreading to the high school level. Despite the name, the parli is not related to debate in governmental parliaments beyond formal speaker titles such as \"Opposition Leader\" and \"Prime Minister\".\n\nBritish Parliamentary debate is very widespread. It has also been adopted as the official style of the World Universities Debating Championship and the European Universities Debating Championship (at which the speakers are given only fifteen minutes' notice of the motion). Speeches are usually between five and seven minutes in duration. The debate consists of four teams of two speakers, sometimes called \"factions\", with two teams on either side of the case.\n\nBecause of the style's origins in British parliamentary procedure, the two sides are called the \"Government\" and \"Opposition\", while the speakers take their titles from those of their parliamentary equivalents (such as the opening Government speaker, called the \"Prime Minister\"). Furthermore, since this style is based on parliamentary debate, each faction is considered to be one of two parties in a coalition. They must therefore differentiate themselves from the other team on their side of the case in order to succeed in their own right.\n\nAll speakers are expected to offer Points of Information (POIs) to their opponents. POIs are particularly important in \"British Parliamentary\" style, as it allows the first two teams to maintain their relevance during the course of the debate, and the last two teams to introduce their arguments early in the debate. The first and last minute of each speech is considered \"protected time\", during which no POI may be offered.\n\nDepending on the country, there are variations in speaking time, speaking order, and the number of speakers. For example, in New Zealand, both the leader of the Opposition and the Prime Minister offer a short summary as the last two speakers.\n\n\"American parliamentary debate\" is supported by a number of organizations in the United States at the tertiary and secondary levels.\n\nUniversity level\n\nThe most popular intercollegiate parliamentary debate style is supported by the National Parliamentary Debate Association (NPDA), which was born in western US in 1991. NPDA circuit consists of a loose confederation of local leagues and a number of invitational tournaments. The NPDA season culminates with two national tournaments – NPDA Nationals and the National Parliamentary Tournament of Excellence (NPTE). NPDA Nationals (founded in 1994) is open to all and attracts about 200 teams each year. NPTE (founded in 2001) is qualification-only and invites the top 64 teams of the approximately 1000 teams that compete in NPDA/NPTE-sanctioned invitationals throughout the season. Phi Rho Pi Nationals for junior and community colleges have an NPDA-style division, as do Novice Nationals. The chief online forum for the NPDA circuit is Net-Benefits.net, started in 2002 by Jed Link.\n\nAmerican Parliamentary Debate Association (APDA), the oldest intercollegiate parliamentary debate league in the US, was founded in 1982. APDA currently has around 40 member universities, primarily on the east coast.\n\nA number of smaller intercollegiate debate leagues, such as the Lincoln Parliamentary League (LPL) and International Public Debate Association (IPDA) also exist.\n\nThe British Parliamentary Style (a.k.a. Worlds Debate, distinct from World Schools Style) is also beginning to spread to the US, with the US Universities Debating Championship held annually at the University of Vermont.\n\nChamber Debate is a modified form of Australia-Asia debating that sponsors three national tournaments annually using the 3-on-3 format of parliamentary debate Unlike other formats of parliamentary debate, Chamber Debate allows teams to use electronic devices a via 4th non-speaking member of each team who conducts fact-checking and other research for their team during the round.\n\nHigh school level\n\nParliamentary debate is offered through the High School Public Debate League (http://highschooldebate.org).\n\nThe other public school high school debate league, National Forensic League (NFL), does not offer parliamentary debate at its national tournament. It does, however, recognize parli competitions offered at the state level, albeit at a reduced points value. In 2010 NFL Nationals added Supplemental Debate, which bears some similarity to parliamentary debate.\n\nA number of attempts to organize a high school parli championship tournament have been made – National Parliamentary Caucus (2003–2005), NPDL Parli Grand Nationals (2006–2007) and IDEA Tournament of Champions (2005–2009, switched to world format in 2010).\n\nThe current incarnation of such championship is the Tournament of Champions, hosted by Point of Information. (2010–present, began accepting out-of-state teams in 2011). It was started as a California championship, named \"California Cup,\" but has been renamed the Tournament of Champions to represent the prestige of the high school tournament.\n\nOregon State Tournament (OSAA) added parliamentary debate (known In Oregon as Public debate) in 2001, California State Tournament (CHSSA) followed suit in 2003, and Pennsylvania State Tournament (PHSSL) in 2010. Yale, ASU, Whitman, as well as a number of invitational tournaments in Oregon and California, the largest of them held at Stanford, James Logan HS, SCU, UOP, Willamette, University of Oregon, Pepperdine and Claremont HS also offer parli.\nThe Kansas City, Missouri area has conducted monthly high school tournaments since 2002. The Kansas City Greater Metropolitan Parliamentary Debate League offers two-round contests during the week with a championship tournament at the end of the school year.\n\nHigh school parli is taught at several summer debate camps, including Stanford National Forensics Institute, ODI, CCPDI, and the POI Debate Institute at UC Berkeley.\n\nOn the home school level, the home school debate league, Stoa, also promotes parliamentary debate in a number of its tournaments nationwide. Stoa also offers parliamentary debate at nationals (NITOC). The other home school debate league, NCFCA, does not offer parliamentary debate at any of its tournaments or is it hosted at nationals.\n\nFormat\n\nThe first key feature uniting various formats of parliamentary debate in the US is their spontaneity. The resolutions alternate each round. They are announced, then participants are given 20 minutes of preparation time known as \"prep\". APDA is somewhat of an exception in the respect, with \"loose link\" rounds allowing the affirmative to run a case of their choosing, dealing with virtually any topic. The second key feature of parli is a ban on quoted evidence. Debaters may not bring in any material that was not prepared in the 20 minutes of preparation time and consult it during the round. APDA, Worlds and high school parli debate styles tend to take a more lay-friendly approach to debate, ensuring that debates are easy to understand no matter the audience member's expertise of the resolution. NPDA is more diverse, with some teams engaging in a more academic and specific-knowledge style borrowed from Policy debate. Resolutions typically focus on current events, though the entrance of the Kritik to NPDA, and, to a lesser extent, to some high school circuits, introduced a philosophical element to parli.\n\nThis style consists of a two-on-two debate, between the affirmative team, known as the Government or the Proposition, and the negative team, referred to as the Opposition. Debater role names are borrowed from the British Parliament, with the judge being referred to as the Speaker. The round consists of six speeches, as follows:\n\nSpecific rules and speech times vary slightly between organizations. NPDA, APDA and OSAA use the 7-8-8-8-4-5 format, CHSSA and the ASU Invitational use the Claremont 7-7-7-7-5-5 format, the SCU Invitational uses the 6-7-7-7-4-5 format, and Yale high school tournaments use the Osterweis 4-5-5-5-2-3 format. PHSSL borrows its 8 speeches 6-6-6-6-6-6-3-3 format from World Schools Style debate.\n\nMost variations of the style do not include a specialized cross-examination period, but allow debaters to make parliamentary points.\n\n\nWorld Schools Style Debating combines the British Parliamentary and Australian formats, which results in a debate comprising eight speeches delivered by two three-member teams (the Proposition and the Opposition). Each speaker delivers an eight-minute speech – the first two are substantive matter and the third a rebuttal speech; then both teams deliver a \"reply speech\" lasting four minutes, with the last word being reserved for the Proposition. In junior debates, these limits are changed to about 5 minutes, and in some local competitions, speeches are 7 minutes.\n\nBetween the end of the first and the beginning of the last minute of an eight-minute speech, the opposing party may offer \"points of information\". The speaker may refuse these, but should take at least one or two points during his or her speech. No points of order or Privilege are used.\n\nTopics can be supplied long in advance, or may be given 45 minutes or an hour before the debate begins. There is not much room for re-definition, and squirreling is strictly prohibited. The World Schools Debating Championships is attended by many countries, and uses this format.\n\nA similar format, with 7-minute speeches and Points-of-Information, is known as the Asian Parliamentary Format and is used by the United Asian Debating Championships\n\n\n"}
{"id": "432893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=432893", "title": "People's Revolutionary Army (Argentina)", "text": "People's Revolutionary Army (Argentina)\n\nThe People's Revolutionary Army (, abbreviated as ERP) was the military branch of the communist Partido Revolucionario de los Trabajadores (PRT, Workers' Revolutionary Party) in Argentina.\n\nThe ERP was founded as the armed wing of the PRT, a communist party emerging from the Trotskyist tradition, but soon turned to the Maoist theory, especially the Cultural Revolution. During the 1960s, the PRT adopted the \"foquista\" strategy of insurgency associated with Che Guevara, who had fought alongside Fidel Castro during the Cuban Revolution.\n\nThe ERP launched its guerrilla campaign against the Argentine military dictatorship headed by Juan Carlos Onganía in 1969, using targeted urban guerrilla warfare methods such as assassinations and kidnappings of government officials and foreign company executives. For example, in 1973 Enrique Gorriarán Merlo and Benito Urteaga led the ERP kidnapping of Esso executive Victor Samuelson and obtaining a ransom of $12 million. They also assaulted several companies' offices using heavily armed commandos of the ERP's elite \"Special Squad\". Although claim and counter-claim are invariably difficult to reconcile, figures released for an official publication, \"Crónica de la subversión en la Argentina\" (Buenos Aires: Ediciones Depalma) at least give an indication of the kind of guerrilla activity undertaken, with claims that the rural guerrillas occupied 52 towns, robbed 166 banks and took US $76 million in ransoms for the kidnappings of 185 people.\n\nThe group continued the violent campaign even after democratic elections and the return to civilian rule in 1973, with Juan Peron's return. On June 20, 1973 the Peronist movement split after the Ezeiza massacre, that started when Lieutenant-Colonel Jorge Osinde's crowd monitoring right-wing Peronist militia reported the arrival of heavily armed Montoneros in two buses the day that Peron returned from exile. Victor E. Samuelson, an Exxon executive, was abducted on 6 December 1973 by the ERP. He was released after 144 days in captivity, after the Exxon Corporation paid a record ransom of $14.2 million. The avowed aim of the ERP was a communist revolution against the Argentine government in pursuit of \"proletarian rule.\"\n\nThe ERP publicly remained in the forefront. ERP guerrilla activity took the form of attacks on military outposts, police stations and convoys. In 1971, 57 policemen were killed fighting the left-wing guerrillas, and in 1972 another 38 policemen lost their lives in the guerrilla violence. On 28 December 1972, Marine Private Julio César Provenzano of the ERP, is killed when the bomb he planted in one of the lavatories of the Argentine Naval Headquarters went off prematurely. On 3 April 1973, ERP guerrillas kidnapped Rear-Admiral Francisco Agustín Alemán.\n\nIn January 1974 the ERP \"Compañía Héroes de Trelew\", named in commemoration of the 1972 Massacre of Trelew, during which 16 left-wing guerrillas who had attempted to escape detention had been shot dead, attacked the barracks at Azul, killing the Commanding Officer (Colonel Camilo Arturo Gay) and his wife (Hilda Irma Casaux) and kidnapping and later executing Lieutenant-Colonel Jorge Ibarzábal, with Patricia Gay the daughter of Gay and Casaux later taking her own life. However, in August, an assault on the Argentine Army's Villa Maria explosives factory in Cordoba and the 17th Airborne Infantry Regiment at Catamarca by 70 ERP guerrillas dressed in army fatigues, met mixed fortune after killing and wounding eight policemen and soldiers but losing 16 guerrillas shot dead after they surrendered to 300 paratroopers of the 17th Airborne Infantry Regiment under Lieutenant-Colonel Eduardo Humberto Cubas. On 23 October 1974, ERP guerrillas shot and killed Lieutenant-Colonel José Francisco Gardón as he was leaving the Buenos Aires hospital where he specialized in blood diseases. On 18 August 1975 Captain Miguel Alberto Keller, accompanied by an NCO and five conscripts were forced to stop their army lorry at what they believed to be a military checkpoint, and Keller was shot dead as he approached the ERP guerrillas waiting in ambush. In December 1975 a force of some 300 ERP guerrillas and supporting militants attacked the Monte Chingolo barracks outside Buenos Aires but lost 63 dead, many of whom were wounded in the attack and subsequently killed. In addition, seven army troops and three policemen were killed and 34 wounded (including 17 policemen). In all, 293 Argentine servicemen and police were killed fighting left-wing guerrillas between 1975 and 1976.\nIn 1976 there had been plans to send a large part of the Uruguayan \"Tupamaros\" (MLN-T), the Chilean \"Movimiento de Izquierda Revolucionaria\" (MIR) and the Bolivian \"National Liberation Army\" (ELN) to fight alongside the ERP and Montoneros in Argentina, but the plans failed to materialize largely due to the military coup.\n\nAfter the return of Juan Perón to the presidency in 1973, the ERP shifted to a rural strategy designed to secure a large land area as a base of military operations against the Argentine state. The ERP leadership chose to send the \"Compania del Monte Ramón Rosa Jimenez\" (Ramón Rosa Jimenez Mountain Company) to the province of Tucumán at the edge of the long-impoverished Andean highlands in the northwest corner of Argentina. Many of the officers in the rural \"guerrilleros\" company were trained in Cuba.\nIn July 2008, Cuban leader Fidel Castro admitted that he supported the guerrilla forces in South America: \"The only place where we didn't attempt to promote a revolution was in Mexico. Everywhere else, without exception, we tried\". Politician Gustavo Breide Obeid, who fought as an army captain against ERP guerrillas in Tucumán Province, claimed in 2007 that mercenaries from Jordan, Nicaragua and Angola served in the 'Ramón Rosa Jimenez' Mountain Company. By December 1974, the guerrillas numbered about 100 fighters, with a 400-person support network from the Montoneros.\nLed by Mario Roberto Santucho, they soon established control over a third of the province and organized a base of some 2,500 sympathizers.\nSantucho's armed guerrillas in the northwestern province of Tucuman never exceeded 300 in the first year of the campaign.\n\nThe growth in ERP strength in the northwest, together with an increase in urban violence carried out by the left-Peronist Montoneros following Perón's death in 1974, led the government of Isabel de Perón to issue \"annihilation decrees\" and expand the military's powers to fight a counter-insurgency campaign in February 1975. In all, 83 servicemen and policemen were killed in fighting the left-wing guerrillas, between 1973 and 1974.\n\nSome 3,500 soldiers of the 5th Mountain Infantry Brigade, and two companies of elite commandos, placed under the command of Brigadier-General Acdel Vilas began immediately deploying in the Tucumán mountains in \"Operacion Independencia\", joined later by 1,500 more troops from the 4th Airborne Infantry Brigade and 8th Mountain Infantry Brigade. The pattern of the war was largely dictated by the nature of the terrain, the mountains, rivers and extensive jungle denying both sides easy movement. The A-4B Skyhawk fighters and B.62 Canberra bombers of the Argentine Air Force were used for offensive air support while the North American T-34 and FMA IA 58 Pucará served as a light ground-attack and reconnaissance aircraft. While fighting the guerrilla in the jungle and mountains, Vilas concentrated on uprooting the ERP support network in the towns, using state terror tactics later adopted nationwide during the \"Dirty War\", as well as a civic action campaign. By July, the Argentine Army commandos were mounting search-and-destroy missions. The Army special forces discovered Santucho's base camp in August, then raided the ERP urban headquarters in September. Most of the \"Compania del Monte's\" headquarters staff was killed in October and the remainder dispersed by the end of the year. While most of the leaders of the movement were killed outright, many of the captured ERP subalterns and sympathizers were incarcerated during the government of Isabel Martínez de Perón, but little mercy was shown to captured guerrillas and civilian collaborators during the military dictatorship.\n\nIn May 1975, ERP representative Amilcar Santucho was captured trying to cross into Paraguay to promote the JCR unity effort. As a way to save himself, he provided information about the organization to Secretaría de Inteligencia (SIDE) agents that enabled Argentine security agencies to destroy what was left of the ERP, although pockets of ERP guerrillas continued to operate in the heavily wooded Tucuman mountains for many months. The case, during which an FBI official transmitted information obtained from the prisoners (Amilcar was detained along with a MIR member) to the Chilean DINA, was one practical operation of Operation Condor, which had started in 1973\n\nMeanwhile, the guerrilla movement switched its main effort to the north and on 5 October 1975 guerrillas struck the 29th Mountain Infantry Regiment. The 5th Brigade suffered a major blow at the hands of \"Montoneros\", when over one-hundred—perhaps several hundred—Montoneros guerrillas and \"milicianos\" (militants) were involved in the planning and execution of the most elaborate Montoneros operation in the so-called \"Dirty War\", which involved the hijacking of a civilian airliner, taking over the provincial airport, attacking the 29th Infantry Regiment's barracks at Formosa province and capturing its cache of arms, and finally escaping by air. Once the operation was over, they made good their escape towards a remote area in Santa Fe province. The aircraft, a Boeing 737, eventually landed on a crop field not far from the city of Rafaela. In the aftermath, 12 soldiers and 2 policemen were killed and several wounded. The sophistication of the operation, and the getaway cars and safehouses they used to escape from the crash-landing site, suggest several hundred guerrillas and their civilian supporters were involved.\n\nIn December 1975 most 5th Brigade units were committed to the border areas of Tucumán with over 5,000 troops deployed in the province. There was however, nothing to prevent infiltrating through this outer ring and the ERP were still strong inside Buenos Aires. Mario Santucho's Christmas offensive opened on 23 December 1975. The operation was dramatic in its impact, with ERP units, supported by \"Montoneros\", mounting a large scale assault against the army supply base \"Domingo Viejobueno\" at the industrial suburb of Monte Chingolo, south of Buenos Aires. The attackers were defeated and driven off with 53 ERP guerrillas and 9 supporting militants killed. Seven army troops and three policemen were reported killed. In this particular battle the ERP and supporting Montoneros militants had about 1,000 deployed against 1,000 government forces. This large-scale operation was made possible not only by the planning of the guerrillas involved, but also by their supporters who provided houses to hide them, supplies and the means of escape.\n\nOn 30 December a bomb exploded at the headquarters of the Argentine Army in Buenos Aires, injuring at least six soldiers. In the eyes of the military, the credibility of the government was now destroyed and the strategy of attrition was bankrupt. The guerrillas had even successfully utilized divers of the Grupo Especial de Combate of the Montoneros: the modern type 42 destroyer was severely damaged by explosives placed under her keel by frogmen of the Montoneros on 22 August 1975 while moored in the port of Ensenada. The damage was so great that the ship remained unseaworthy for several years. By the end of 1975, a total of 137 servicemen and police had been killed that year by left wing guerrillas. Elements within the armed forces, particularly among the junior officers, blamed the weakness of the government and began to seek a leader who they considered was strong enough to ensure a preservation of Argentinian sovereignty, settling on Lieutenant-General Jorge Videla. On 11 February 1976, colonel Raúl Rafael Reyes, the commander of the 601st Air Defence Artillery Group, was killed and two army conscripts (Privates Tempone and Gómez) wounded in an ambush by six ERP guerrillas in the La Plata suburb of Buenos Aires.\n\nThe Argentine armed forces moved ahead with the \"Dirty War\", dispensing with the civilian government through a coup d'état in March 1976. In his editorial immediately after the military takeover, Santucho wrote that \"a river of blood will separate the military from the Argentine people\", and this would result in a popular uprising followed by a civil war. On 29 March 1976, the ERP leadership lost twelve killed in a gun battle in downtown Buenos Aires with army elements (including the ERP Chief of Intelligence) but Santucho along with fifty guerrillas were able to fight their way out of the ambush. The Argentine Army and police scored more success in mid-April in Córdoba, when in a series of raids it captured and later killed some 300 militants entrusted with supporting the ERP operations in that province. During the first few months of the military junta, more than 70 policemen were killed in leftist actions In mid-1976, the Argentine Army completely destroyed the ERP's elite \"Special Squad\" in two violent firefights. The ERP's commander, Mario Roberto Santucho, and Benito Urteaga were killed in July of that year by military forces led by captain Juan Carlos Leonetti of the 601st Intelligence Battalion. Several hundred guerrillas of the Guevarist Youth Group in training for operations to coincide with the 1978 World Cup in Argentina, were captured and killed in a series of raids in Zárate soon afterwards. Although the ERP continued for a while under the leadership of Enrique Gorriarán Merlo, by late 1977 the guerrilla threat had been eradicted or gone underground. In 2008, the PRT-ERP reported the loss of 5,000 of its members killed in action or having disappeared after being detained. By that time the military dictatorship had expanded its own campaign against \"subversives\" to include state terror against active civilian collaborators, non-violent students, intellectuals, and political activists who were presumed to form the social, non-combatant base of the insurgents. According to different sources, 12,261 to 30,000 people, are estimated to have disappeared and died during the military dictatorship that ruled Argentina from 1976 to 1983. Admittedly there were 12,000 disappeared in the form of PEN detainees that survived the dictatorship, thanks to international pressure to release them from the clandestine detention camps. Some 11,000 Argentines have applied for and received up to US$200,000 each as monetary compensation for the loss of loved ones during the military dictatorship..\nThe PRT continued political activities, although limited to few members, organizing conventions even after democracy returned to the country. In December 2015, Professor Gustavo Morello (SJ) in his new book \"The Catholic Church and Argentina's Dirty War\" (Oxford University Press, 2015) concluded that during the \"Dirty War\" in Argentina \"15,000 people were killed, 8,000 were jailed and some 6,000 were exiled.\"\n\nAfter the destruction of the left-wing in Argentina, some revolutionary cadres made their way to Nicaragua, where the Sandinistas had taken power in 1979. An ERP commando team comprising veterans of the \"Dirty War\" under Gorriarán Merlo, for example, demonstrated their active involvement in the revolutionary struggle by killing ex-dictator Anastasio Somoza in 1980. Gorriarán returned to Argentina in 1987 to become a leader of the \"Movimiento Todos por la Patria\" (All For the Motherland Movement or MTP).\n\nClaiming another military coup by the \"Carapintadas\" was imminent against the new democratic government of Raúl Alfonsín (which at the time was leading a series of trials against members of the Argentine Military accused of human rights violations), Enrique Gorriarán Merlo led the 1989 attack on La Tablada Regiment, during which the Argentine army used white phosphorus as an anti-personnel weapon, and in which the guerrillas used captured army conscripts as 'shields' and ended in the capture of the surviving MTP members. Alfonsín countered the claim that the MTP were trying to forestall a military coup and declared that the attack had the ultimate goal of sparking a massive popular uprising, that could have led to civil war. In their newspapers and in the Argentine press, the Mothers of the Plaza de Mayo denounced the way Alfonsín had handled the La Tablada incident, making a connection between what had happened to their disappeared children and the treatment endured by the MTP guerrillas. Gorriarán was given a life sentence along with other MTP comrades, but was freed by interim president Eduardo Duhalde two days before Néstor Kirchner's access to power in 2003. In protest to Duhalde's decision, former Lieutenant-Colonel Emilio Guillermo Nani who took part in the fighting to recover the La Tablada barracks and lost an eye as a consequence, formally announced that he would be returning the medal for wounded military personnel that he won during the administration of Argentine president Raúl Alfonsín. The MTP still exist today as a political movement which has abandoned armed struggle.\n\nIn January 2016 for the first time in decades, Mauricio Macri (the recently elected president of Argentina) through the new Human Rights Secretary Claudio Avruj, granted an audience to CELTYV (Centre for Legal Studies on Terrorism and its Victims) representing the victims of left-wing terrorism in Argentina in a move that drew strong condemnation from Estela Barnes de Carlotto, head of the Grandmothers of Plaza de Mayo.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1196583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1196583", "title": "Principal Secretary (Canada)", "text": "Principal Secretary (Canada)\n\nIn Canada, the Principal Secretary is a senior aide, often the most senior political aide, to a head of government. Formerly, the position of Principal Secretary was the most senior in the Canadian Prime Minister's Office, though since 1987, it is second to the Chief of Staff. The Leader of the Official Opposition and most Canadian provincial Premiers also have a principal secretary.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10011724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10011724", "title": "Ramón de Trobat", "text": "Ramón de Trobat\n\nRamon Trobat i Vinyes (died April 1698) was the son of Francesc Trobat i Trias and a native of Barcelona, where he trained in the law. During the Catalan Revolt of 1640, he sided with the rebels and served in the army. He came to the notice of the French, and served as an adviser to Cardinal Mazarin at the negotiations for the Peace of the Pyrenees. A prominent member of the French government in Roussillon after its annexation to France, he was named one of the original six councilors of the Sovereign Council on 7 June 1660, promoted to president à mortier on 24 November 1680, and named its first president 18 April 1691. In addition, he was an avocat général of the Sovereign Council from 1660 until 1681, when he was named intendant of Roussillon, a position he retained until his death in 1698.\n\nRecent Bibliography:\nJané, Oscar: \"Catalunya sense Espanya. Ramon Trobat: ideologia i catalanitat a l'empara de França (Editorial Afers, Barcelona-Catarroja, 2009, 248p.)\nEditorial Afers - Trobat\n"}
{"id": "12343002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12343002", "title": "Religious discrimination against Neopagans", "text": "Religious discrimination against Neopagans\n\nNeopagans are a religious minority in every country where they exist and have been subject to religious discrimination and/or religious persecution. The largest Neopagan communities are in North America and the United Kingdom, and the issue of discrimination receives most attention in those locations, but there are also reports from Australia and Greece (the latter specifically concerning Hellenic Neopaganism).\n\nIn 2003, Olivia Watts charged the mayor of the City of Casey, Victoria, Rob Wilson, as violating the Racial and Religious Tolerance Act 2001 after he issued a press release in June of that year titled \"Satanic cult out to take over Casey\", in which Watts was mentioned by name. During a hearing on August 12, 2004 in the Victorian Civil and Administrative Tribunal, Watts said that after the press release, she suffered vandalism to her property and an assault at her home, in addition to general \"hatred, contempt and revulsion\". On August 13, it was revealed in tribunal that the matter had been settled overnight, and Wilson read a statement acknowledging that Watts was not a Satanist and expressing \"regret for any hurt felt by Ms Watts in consequence of his press release\".\n\nIn modern day Greece, the Greek Orthodox Church has the status of state religion, and consequently, alternative religions such as Hellenic Neopaganism may be subject to discrimination.\n\n\"The Greek Society of Attic Friends\", which states that it has 40,000 members, has been unsuccessful when they asked for recognition as a legal religion and was denied the right to build a temple in Athens and to use existing temples for worship.\n\nIn 2006 an Athens court ordered the worship of the old Greek gods to be unbanned and a place of worship has been recognised by court. Referring to the followers, Father Eustathios Kollas, who presides over a community of Greek Orthodox priests, said, \"They are a handful of miserable resuscitators of a degenerate dead religion who wish to return to the monstrous dark delusions of the past.\"\n\nIn September 2012, Conservative Minister of Public Safety Vic Toews cancelled a tender that had been issued by Corrections Canada in British Columbia for a Wiccan prison chaplain. In October of that year, Toews ordered the termination of contracts for all non-Christian prison chaplains in BC and all but two throughout Canada, obliging not only Neopagan prisoners but also Muslims, Jews, Sikhs, Buddhists, practitioners of indigenous religions, and others to turn to Christian chaplains for their spiritual needs. Wiccans were among the prisoners who joined a lawsuit alleging that the terminations violated constitutional guarantees of religious equality.\n\nIn 2007 the South African Pagan Rights Alliance (SAPRA) in South Africa voiced objections to the \"Witchcraft Suppression Act of 1957\" and the draft \"Mpumalanga Witchcraft Suppression Bill of 2007\".\n\nIn the United Kingdom, there have been occasional clashes between New Age travellers and authorities, such as the Battle of the Beanfield in 1985. There are also occasional charges of harassment against Neopagans such as the following examples:\n\nIn 1999, Dr Ralph Morse was appointed by the Pagan Federation as their first national youth manager. Following an article that appeared in the \"Independent on Sunday\" on April 2, 2000, Morse was summarily suspended from his post as Head of Drama, Theatre Arts and Media Studies at Shenfield High School in Essex. Morse was subsequently fully investigated by the school and reinstated with a full retraction released to the media.\n\nIn 2006, members of \"Youth 2000\", a conservative Catholic organisation, on visit to Father Kevin Knox-Lecky of St Mary's church, Glastonbury, attacked pagans by throwing salt at them and told them they \"would burn in hell\". Knox-Lecky apologised and said he would not invite the group again. The police warned two women and arrested one youth on suspicion of harassment.\n\nIn 2007, a teaching assistant in Brighton claimed she was sacked for being a Wiccan. A teacher at Shawlands Academy in Glasgow was denied time off with pay to attend Druid rites while members of other religions have their days of observance paid. A Neo-druid group from Weymouth, Dorset was subjected to threats and abuse.\n\nThe University of St Andrews in Scotland have since 2006 allowed equal rights to the St Andrews Pagan Society, but under some strict rules.\n\nAccording to Starhawk, \"religious discrimination against Pagans and Wiccans and indigenous religions is omnipresent in the U.S.\" Evidence exists that workplace discrimination is common from verbal ridicule to more systematic forms such as exclusion from work-related activities.\n\nIn 1999, in response to a statement by Representative Bob Barr (R-GA) regarding Wiccan gatherings on military bases, the Free Congress Foundation called for U.S. citizens to not enlist or re-enlist in the U.S. Army until the Army terminated the on-base freedoms of religion, speech, and assembly for all Wiccan soldiers. Though this movement died a \"quiet death\", on June 24, 1999, then-Governor George W. Bush stated on a television news program that \"I don’t think witchcraft is a religion and I wish the military would take another look at this and decide against it.\"\n\nU.S. Army Chaplain Captain Don Larsen was dismissed from his post in Iraq in 2006 after changing his religious affiliation from Pentecostal Christianity to Wicca and applying to become the first Wiccan military chaplain. His potential new endorser, the Sacred Well Congregation based in Texas, was not yet an officially recognised endorsement organisation for the military, and upon hearing of his conversion, his prior endorser, the Chaplaincy of Full Gospel Churches, immediately revoked its endorsement. At this point, the U.S. Army was required to dismiss him from chaplaincy despite an exemplary service record.\n\nPrior to 2007, the United States Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) did not allow the use of the pentacle as an approved emblem of belief on headstones and markers in military cemeteries. This policy was changed in April 2007 to settle a lawsuit. VA also added the Hammer of Thor to the list of approved emblems in May 2013.\n\nThe 1985, Virginia prisoner Herbert Daniel Dettmer sued Robert Landon, the Director of the Virginia Department of Corrections, in federal court, to get access to objects he claimed were necessary for his Wiccan religious practice. The district court for the Eastern District of Virginia decided in Dettmer's favor, although on appeal the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit ruled that, while Wicca was a religion, he was not being discriminated against. This case marked the first legal recognition of Wicca as a religion.\n\nIn Cutter v. Wilkinson, 544 U.S. 709 (2005), a case involving five Ohio prison inmates (two followers of Ásatrú, a minister of the Church of Jesus Christ Christian, a Wiccan witch and a Satanist) protesting denial of access to ceremonial items and opportunities for group worship was brought before the Supreme Court. Among the denied objects was instructions for runic writing requested by an Ásatrúarmaður, which was initially denied when prison officials raised concerns that runic writing could be used for coded gang communication.\n\nIn an interview about the role of race-based gangs and other extremists in America's prisons, the historian Mark Pitcavage came to the conclusion that \"[n]\"on-racist versions of Ásatrú and Odinism are pretty much acceptable religions in the prisons\"\", but materials from racist variants of these religions may be prohibited by corrections departments.\n\nIn early 2011, a Stillwater prisoner named Stephen Hodgson filed a federal lawsuit against the state of Minnesota claiming his religious rights have been violated. Hodgson claimed he was prohibited from practising his Wiccan faith when guards and prison administrators refused to allow him to use prayer oils and herbs needed. He also claimed that his religious mail had been confiscated and that he had been prohibited from burning incense or using prayer oils and herbs. He claimed those items were necessary for the practice of his religion and that they posed no danger to guards or other inmates. The Minnesota Department of Human Rights agreed with Hodgson, saying \"probable cause exists to believe that an unfair discriminatory practice was committed.\"\n\nThe discrimination case is awaiting trial. \n\nAccording to Gerald Gardner, who popularised Wicca in the twentieth century, the religion is a survival of a European witch-cult that was persecuted during the witch trials (sometimes called the \"Burning Times\"), and the strong element of secrecy that traditionally surrounds the religion was adopted as a reaction to that persecution. Since then, Margaret Murray's theory of an organised pan-European witch-cult has been discredited, and doubts raised about the age of Wicca; many Wiccans no longer claim this historical lineage. However, it is still common for Wiccans to feel solidarity with the victims of the witch trials and, being witches, to consider the witch-craze to have been a persecution against their faith.\n\nThere has been confusion that Wicca is a form of Satanism, despite important differences between these religions. Due to negative connotations associated with witchcraft, many Wiccans continue the traditional practice of secrecy, concealing their faith for fear of persecution. Revealing oneself as Wiccan to family, friends, or colleagues is often termed \"coming out of the broom-closet\".\n\nWiccans have also experienced difficulties in administering and receiving prison ministry, although not in the UK of recent times. In 1985, as a result of \"Dettmer v. Landon\" [617 F. Supp. 592 (D.C. Va 1985)], the District Court of Virginia ruled that Wicca is a legally recognised religion and is afforded all the benefits accorded to it by law. This was affirmed a year later by Judge John D. Butzner, Jr. of the United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit [\"Dettmer v. Landon\", 799 F. 2d 929 (4th Cir. 1986)]. Nevertheless, Wiccans are sometimes still stigmatised in America, and many remain secretive about their beliefs.\n\nAlso in 1985, conservative legislators in the United States introduced three pieces of legislation designed to take away the tax-exempt status of Wiccans. The first one was House Resolution (H.R.) 3389, introduced on September 19, 1985 by Congressman Robert S. Walker (R-Pennsylvania), which would have amended to the United States Internal Revenue Code that any organisation which promotes witchcraft would not be exempt from taxation. On the other side of Congress, Senator Jesse Helms (R-North Carolina ) added Amendment 705 to H.R. 3036, \"The Treasury, Postal, and General Government Appropriations Bill for 1986\", which similarly stated that organisations promoting witchcraft would not be eligible for tax-exempt status. After being ignored for a time, it was attached to H.R. 3036 by a unanimous voice vote of the senators. Congressman Richard T. Schulze (R-Pennsylvania) introduced substantially the same amendment to the Tax Reform Bill of 1985. When the budget subcommittee met on October 30, the Helms Amendment was thrown out as it was not considered germane to the bill. Following this, Schulze withdrew his amendment from the Tax Reform Bill, leaving only H.R. 3389, the Walker Bill. Joe Barton (R-Texas) was attracted to become a co-sponsor of this bill on November 14, 1985. The Ways and Means Committee set aside the bill and quietly ignored it, and the bill was allowed to die with the close of the 99th session of Congress in December 1986.\n\nIn 2002, Cynthia Simpson of Chesterfield County, Virginia, submitted an application to be invited to lead prayer at the local Board of Supervisors meetings, but in a response was told that because the views of Wicca were not \"consistent with the Judeo-Christian tradition\", her application had been denied. After the Board reviewed and affirmed their policy, Simpson took the case to the U.S. District Court of Virginia, which held that the Board had violated the Establishment Clause by advancing limited sets of beliefs. The Board appealed to the Fourth Circuit Court of Appeals, which in 2005 reversed the ruling and held that the Supreme Court's holding in the \"Marsh\" case meant that \"Chesterfield County could constitutionally exclude Simpson from leading its legislative prayers, because her faith was not 'in the Judeo-Christian tradition.'\" The Board had also since modified its policy to direct clerics to not invoke the name of Jesus. On October 11, 2005, the United States Supreme Court rejected an appeal by Simpson, leaving in place the decision by the Fourth Circuit. However, in Town of Greece v. Galloway, the Supreme Court ruled that legislative prayer cannot be restricted on basis of belief, re-opening the debate about Simpson's case.\n\nThe United States government does not officially endorse or recognise any religious group, but numerous Ásatrú groups have been granted non-profit religious status going back to the 1970s.\n\nAn inmate of the \"Intensive Management Unit\" at Washington State Penitentiary alleges that adherents of Ásatrú in 2001 were deprived of their Thor's Hammer medallions as well as denied religious literature, as well as complaints against the prison chaplain calling Ásatrú \"'devil worship,' etc.\"\n\nIn 2007, a federal judge confirmed that Ásatrú adherents in US prisons have the right to possess a Thor’s Hammer pendant. An inmate sued the Virginia Department of Corrections after he was denied it while members of other religions were allowed their medallions.\n\nIn the Georgacarakos v. Watts case Peter N. Georgacarakos filed a pro se civil-rights complaint in the United States District Court for the District of Colorado against 19 prison officials for \"interference with the free exercise of his Asatru religion\" and \"discrimination on the basis of his being Asatru\".\n\nThe Cutter v. Wilkinson case was partially about an adherent of Ásatrú being denied access to ceremonial items and opportunities for group worship. The defendants on numerous occasions refused to answer or respond to letters, complaints, and requests for Ásatrú religious accommodations. They also refused to respond to complaints of religious discrimination. Ásatrú inmates were denied group worship and/or group study time as they did to other religions. They refused to hire a Gothi to perform blóts while providing priests for members of other religions. The Ásatrú inmates were also denied the right to have their own worship or study services.\n\nIn a join press release the Odinic Rite, Ásatrú Alliance and Ásatrú Folk Assembly charged the FBI with violating its First Amendment rights to freedom of religion, free speech, and peaceful assembly by giving \"False, misleading and deceptive information about our religion and its followers\" in FBI's Project Megiddo report.\n\nThe Anti-Defamation League publishes lists of symbols used by anti-Semitic groups. Included in these publications are several Germanic pagan symbols that were sometimes used by the Nazis and some neo-Nazi groups, but have also always been used by non-racist pagan religions. Following an organised e-mail protest (mainly by the Odinic Rite), the ADL clarified that these symbols are not necessarily racist. It has since amended its publications to categorise these symbols as \"pagan symbols co-opted by extremists\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1343066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1343066", "title": "Sino-Albanian split", "text": "Sino-Albanian split\n\nThe Sino-Albanian split was the gradual worsening of relations between the People's Socialist Republic of Albania and the People's Republic of China in the period 1972–78. Both countries had supported each other in the Soviet–Albanian and Sino-Soviet splits, together declaring the necessity of defending Marxism–Leninism against what they regarded as Soviet revisionism within the international communist movement. By the early 1970s, however, Albanian disagreements with certain aspects of Chinese policy deepened as the visit of Nixon to China along with the Chinese announcement of the \"Three Worlds Theory\" produced strong apprehension in Albania's leadership under Enver Hoxha. Hoxha saw in these events an emerging Chinese alliance with American imperialism and abandonment of proletarian internationalism. In 1978, China broke off its trade relations with Albania, signalling an end to the informal alliance which existed between the two states.\n\nIn September 1956, Enver Hoxha headed a delegation of the Central Committee of the Party of Labour of Albania (PLA) at the Eighth Congress of the Communist Party of China. Writing years later of his impressions of the country before the visit, he noted that \"we had followed with sympathy the just war of the fraternal Chinese people against the Japanese fascists and aggressors, Chiang Kai-shek reaction and the American interference... We knew also that at the head of the Communist Party of China was Mao Zedong, about whom personally, as well as about the party which he led, we had no information other than what we heard from the Soviet comrades. Both during this period and after 1949 we had not had the opportunity to read any of the works or writings of Mao Zedong, who was said to be a philosopher and to have written a whole series of works. We welcomed the victory of October 1, 1949 with heartfelt joy and we were among the first countries to recognize the new Chinese state and establish fraternal relations with it. Although greater possibilities and ways were now opened for more frequent and closer contacts and links between our two countries, these links remained at the level of friendly, cultural and commercial relations, the sending of some second-rank delegation, mutual support, according to the occasion, through public speeches and statements, the exchange of telegrams on the occasion of celebrations and anniversaries, and almost nothing more.\"\n\nKhrushchev's rehabilitation of Tito and Yugoslavia and his \"Secret Speech\" in February 1956 put the Soviet leadership at odds with its Albanian counterpart. According to the Albanians, the \"Khrushchev group's approaches to the Yugoslav revisionists and its open denigration of Joseph Stalin were the first open distortions of an ideological and political character, which were opposed by the PLA.\" After arriving in Beijing on September 13, Hoxha held his first (and only) meeting with Mao Zedong in between sessions of the party's congress. Mao's first two questions concerned Yugoslav-Albanian ties and the Albanians' opinion on Stalin. Hoxha replied that Albania's relations with Yugoslavia were \"cold\" and he gave Mao \"a brief outline, dwelling on some of the key moments of the anti-Albanian and anti-Marxist activity of the Yugoslav leadership.\" On the subject of Stalin, Hoxha stated that the PLA considered him \"a leader of very great, all-round merits, a loyal disciple of Lenin and continuer of his work.\" Mao argued that the 1948 Information Bureau decision to expel Yugoslavia was incorrect, and also stressed what he considered to have been Stalin's mistakes in regard to China.\n\nHoxha later recalled that \"our impressions from this meeting were not what we had expected... We were especially disappointed over the things we heard from the mouth of Mao about the Information Bureau, Stalin and the Yugoslav question. However, we were even more surprised and worried by the proceedings of the 8th Congress. The whole platform of this Congress was based on the theses of the 20th Congress of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union, indeed, in certain directions, the theses of Khrushchev had been carried further forward... Apart from other things, in the reports which Liu Shaoqi, Deng Xiaoping and Zhou Enlai delivered one after the other at the 8th Congress they defended and further deepened the permanent line of the Communist Party of China for extensive collaboration with the bourgeoisie and the kulaks, 'argued' in support of the great blessings which would come to 'socialism' from treating capitalists, merchants, and bourgeois intellectuals well and placing them in high leading positions, vigorously propagated the necessity of collaboration between the working class and the national bourgeoisie, and between the communist party and the other democratic nationalist parties, in the conditions of socialism, etc., etc. In fact, the 'hundred flowers' and the 'hundred schools' of Mao Zedong... constituted the Chinese variant of the bourgeois-revisionist theory and practice about the 'free circulation of ideas and people', about the coexistence of a hotch-potch of ideologies, trends, schools and coteries within socialism.\"\n\nAccording to Hoxha, Mao at the 1957 International Conference of the Communist and Workers' Parties declared that, \"If Stalin were here, we would find it difficult to speak like this. When I met Stalin, before him I felt like a pupil in front of his teacher, while with Comrade Khrushchev we speak freely like equal comrades\" and condemned the \"Anti-Party Group\" of Molotov and others. Hoxha also claimed that Mao expressed regret that the Yugoslavs refused to attend the conference, with Mao speaking of those \"who are 100 per cent Marxists, and others who are 80 per cent, 70 per cent or 50 per cent, indeed there are some who may be only 10 per cent Marxists. We ought to talk even with those who are 10 per cent Marxists, because there are only advantages in this. Why should we not gather, two or three of us, in a small room and talk things over? Why should we not talk, proceeding from the desire for unity?\" In Hoxha's view the refusal of the Yugoslavs to attend, as well as both Soviet and Chinese desires to enhance their prestige in the world communist movement in response to events over the previous year, produced a situation where \"the 1957 Moscow Declaration [resulting from the Conference], in general, was a good document\" owing to its emphasis on opposing revisionism, which both the Soviets and Chinese found advantageous to stress at the time.\nAccording to William E. Griffith, the Chinese position on international affairs had begun to shift to the left owing to deepening contradictions with the Soviet Union and the failure of the Hundred Flowers Campaign at home. \"Only when the Chinese decided, in 1957 and openly in 1960, to challenge Soviet domination of the [communist] bloc did they seriously look around for allies whom they were ready and willing to support.\" By 1960 the Albanians found themselves in ideological agreement with the Chinese, as Elez Biberaj notes: \"The Chinese had criticized Khrushchev for his rapprochement with Tito, and considered the toleration of Yugoslav 'revisionism' dangerous to the entire communist bloc... Although the seeds of the Sino-Soviet conflict were sown during Stalin's time, policy differences between Beijing and Moscow emerged during the mid- and the late 1950s, coinciding with the deterioration of Albanian-Soviet relations.\" The Chinese found the Albanians useful owing to their hostility to perceived Soviet revisionism, with Albanian articles on the subject being reprinted in the Chinese media.\n\nIn November 1960 the Second International Conference of the Communist and Workers' Parties was to be held, and a Commission was created in October to prepare for it. The Albanian delegation headed by Hysni Kapo and the Chinese delegation headed by Deng Xiaoping, however, were at odds; Kapo's speech to the Commission criticized the Soviet handling of the Bucharest Conference and its attacks on China, whereas Deng stated that, \"We are not going to speak about all the issues... We are not going to use such terms as 'opportunist', or 'revisionist', etc.\" Neither Kapo nor Ramiz Alia (another member of the delegation) felt this stand was correct, with Hoxha sending letters to the delegation calling Deng's speeches \"spineless\" and further replying that, \"They are not for carrying the matter through to the end... They are for mending what can be mended, and time will mend the rest... If I were in the Soviets' shoes, I would accept the field which the Chinese are opening to me, because there I will find good grass and can browse at will.\" Alia thus wrote that on the subject of principles, \"The Chinese were concerned only about the [Soviet] 'conductor's baton', which they wanted to break. They went no further.\"\n\nNonetheless, Hoxha recalled years later that, concerning the breakdown in relations between China and the Soviet Union, \"we were quite clear that [the Soviets] did not proceed from principled positions in the accusations they were making against the Chinese party. As became even clearer later, the differences were over a series of matters of principle which, at that time, the Chinese seemed to maintain correct stands. Both in the official speeches of the Chinese leaders and in their published articles, especially in the one entitled 'Long Live Leninism', the Chinese party treated the problems in a theoretically correct way and opposed the Khrushchevites.\" On this basis it defended the activity of the Communist Party of China at the Conference, \"it did so in full consciousness in order to defend the principles of Marxism-Leninism, and not to be given some factories and some tractors by China in return.\"\n\nGriffith wrote in the early 60s that \"Albanian documents are notable for their tone of extreme violence and defiance. A remarkable combination of traditional Balkan fury and left-wing Marxist-Leninist fanaticism, the Albanian anti-Khrushchev polemics... were certainly much more extreme than the relatively moderate, flowery, and above all 'correct' language in which the Chinese Communists have normally couched their most icy blasts against Moscow... It seems doubtful that Peking initiated or even necessarily approved the intensity and extent of the Albanian verbal violence... they quite possibly could not or did not feel it wise to restrain him.\" One author noted that \"Hoxha's speech [to the November 1960 Conference] so vehemently denounced Khrushchev that even the Chinese delegates looked embarrassed.\"\n\nWith both states claiming that the Soviet leadership had betrayed Marxism–Leninism and was presiding over the restoration of capitalism in the USSR, \"China came to be perceived as having replaced the Soviet Union as the leader of the 'anti-imperialist struggle.' This image was reinforced by the poor state of Beijing's relations with the capitalist countries in general. ... The revolutionary spirit characterizing the Chinese society was highly regarded by the Albanian leadership, and was considered as an indication of the Marxist-Leninist character of the CCP and its policies. During the formative years of the alliance, Tiranë looked to Beijing as a center for the development of a new and 'truly' Marxist-Leninist movement.\" In 1964 Zhou Enlai visited Albania and signed a joint statement which, among other things, stated that, \"Relations between socialist countries, big or small, economically more developed or less developed, must be based on the principles of complete equality... It is absolutely impermissible to impose the will of one country upon another, or to impair the independence, sovereignty and interests of the people, of a fraternal country on the pretext of 'aid' or 'international division of labor.'\"\n\nThe informal alliance between China and Albania was considered by Jon Halliday to be \"one of the oddest phenomena of modern times: here were two states of vastly differing size, thousands of miles apart, with almost no cultural ties or knowledge of each other's society, drawn together by a common hostility to the Soviet Union.\" Biberaj wrote that it was unusual, \"a political rather than a military alliance\" without any formal treaty having been signed and \"lacking an organizational structure for regular consultations and policy coordination,\" being \"characterized by an informal relationship conducted on an ad hoc basis.\"\n\nOne early disagreement between the Chinese and Albanians concerned the character of the Soviet leadership and polemics against it. In July 1963 Hoxha wrote in his diary that, \"The Chinese are saying about Khrushchev today what Khrushchev said about Tito yesterday: 'He is an enemy, a Trojan horse, but we must not let him go over to the enemy, must not let him capitulate, because there is the question of the peoples of Yugoslavia', etc.\" and that \"we are not dealing with a person or a group that is making some mistakes, that in the middle of the road sees the disaster looming up ahead and turns back; in this case it would be essential to manoeuvre, without giving way on principles, 'to prevent him from going over to the imperialists'. But with Khrushchev it is not at all in order, or correct, even to consider, let alone do such a thing. He has betrayed completely.\" The Chinese were reluctant to engage in public polemics with the Soviet leadership in 1961–63, stressing the need for a \"united front\" against the Americans and accordingly asking the Albanians to tone down their own polemics and ask for the restoration of diplomatic relations from the Soviet Union, with the Albanians taking offense to such views.\n\nAnother early disagreement between the Chinese and Albanians was over the subject of border disputes. Hoxha wrote in his diary in August 1964 that \"Chou En-lai raises with the Rumanians territorial claims against the Soviet Union. He accuses the Soviet Union (Lenin and Stalin because, this 'robbery', according to Chou En-lai, took place in their time) of having seized Chinese, Japanese, Polish, German, Czech, Rumanian, Finnish, and other territories. On the other hand, Chou En-lai tells the Rumanians that they are doing well to claim the territories which the Soviet Union has seized from them. These are not Marxist-Leninist, but national-chauvinist positions. Regardless of whether or not mistakes may have been made, to raise these things now, when we are faced, first of all, with the ideological struggle against modern revisionism, means not to fight Khrushchev, but on the contrary to assist him on his chauvinist course.\" In September that year the Central Committee of the PLA sent a letter to the CC of the CCP on the Sino-Soviet border dispute, stating that, \"Under the pressure of Khrushchev's revisionist propaganda, under the influence of Khrushchev's slanders and calumnies, and for many other reasons, the masses of the Soviet people will not understand why People's China is now putting forth territorial claims to the Soviet Union, they will not accept this, and Soviet propaganda is working to make them revolt against you. But we think that even true Soviet communists will not understand it, nor will they accept it. This would be a colossal loss for our struggle.\" The CC of the CCP did not reply.\n\nWith the downfall of Khrushchev and rise of Leonid Brezhnev in October 1964 the Chinese called for the PLA to join in supporting the new leadership \"in the struggle against the common enemy, imperialism.\" The PLA felt that Brezhnev's rise merely represented \"Khrushchevism without Khrushchev\" and in a letter to the CC of the CCP urged the continuation of polemics against the Soviet leadership, whereas the Chinese sought to get the Albanians to send a delegation to Moscow together with their own delegation headed by Zhou Enlai. Recalling this incident in 1968 Hoxha wrote that, \"Chou En-lai went to Moscow without us and there he suffered [an] ignominious defeat... Later we were told: 'We made a mistake in going to Moscow and in proposing it to you, too', etc., etc.\" Regardless of these and future differences between the two informal allies, the Albanians subsequently wrote that they \"supported China publicly... in the international arena for those stands of the Chinese side which were correct.\"\n\nA constant irritant on the Albanian side was an inability to have regular contacts with the Chinese. Examining Hoxha's two-volume \"Reflections on China\" (consisting of extracts from his political diary), Halliday writes that, \"If there is a central theme to the whole 1600 pages, it is the problem of deciphering China's actions... In the very first entry... Hoxha writes that in spite of the importance of consulting about 'revisionism', 'up to now, the Chinese have not had any contact at all with us to discuss these things. Were our enemies to know that between us there is no consultation at all about the fight against the modern revisionists, they would be astonished. They would never believe it. But that is how things stand.' ... Hoxha presents the decade and a half of 'alliance' with China as years when Albania had to muzzle itself quite a lot, with the occasional bust-out to signal disapproval of China's actions... The diary is rich in accounts of his attempts to decode both published statements and acts, on the one hand, and (something not so widely known) the private communications of the Chinese to the Albanians which were also in 'code'. In the end, Hoxha is reduced to watching the TV of his hated Yugoslavia and capitalist Italy.\"\n\nIn October 1966 Hoxha delivered a speech to a plenum of the CC of the PLA titled \"Some Preliminary Ideas about the Chinese Proletarian Cultural Revolution,\" noting that, \"We have been informed about and have followed the recent developments in China only through the Chinese press and Hsinhua. The Communist Party of China and its Central Committee have not given our Party and its Central Committee any special comradely information. We think that as a party so closely linked with ours, it ought to have kept us better informed in an internationalist way, especially during these recent months.\" Hoxha analyzed the events in China in an overall negative fashion, criticizing among other things the fact that the CCP had not held a congress in ten years and that four years had gone by without a plenum of the CC being called, a practice which \"cannot be found in any Marxist-Leninist party.\" Hoxha said that \"the cult of Mao was raised to the skies in a sickening and artificial manner\" and further added that, in reading of its purported objectives, \"you have the impression that everything old in Chinese and world culture should be rejected without discrimination and a new culture, the culture they call proletarian, should be created.\" He further stated that, \"It is difficult for us to call this revolution, as the 'Red Guards' are carrying it out, a Proletarian Cultural Revolution... the enemies could and should be captured by the organs of the dictatorship on the basis of the law, and if the enemies have wormed their way into the party committees, let them be purged through party channels. Or in the final analysis, arm the working class and attack the committees, but not with children.\"\n\nThe beginning of the Chinese \"Great Proletarian Cultural Revolution\" coincided with the intensification of the Albanian \"Ideological and Cultural Revolution\" in the fields of culture, economics and politics, which unlike its Chinese counterpart was presented as \"a continuation and deepening of policies, programs, and efforts undertaken by Albania over a period of some twenty years,\" with other differences being that Hoxha's presence was never given \"the symbolic and mystical stature in the Albanian revolution that Mao Tse-tung enjoyed in China,\" there was no inner-party factional struggle at the root of Albanian initiative, the Albanian army played no significant role in events, and there were no Albanian equivalents to the Red Guards nor was there an \"influx of supporters of the revolution from the provinces to Tiranë... no public purges, no turmoil in the State University of Tiranë or dislocations of the school system, and no damaging blow to the economy as a result of changes brought on by the revolution.\" The Albanians also resisted Chinese efforts to get them to praise \"Mao Zedong Thought\" as constituting a \"higher stage\" of Marxism–Leninism.\n\nAnother difference between the Albanians and Chinese was on the treatment of \"anti-revisionist\" parties in Europe and elsewhere who openly upheld the positions of the Albanians and Chinese against the Soviet Union, with the Chinese being reluctant to organize them in joint endeavors due to fears of alienating \"neutral\" parties such as those in North Korea and North Vietnam, whereas the Albanians took an active interest in such efforts; Hoxha wrote that the CCP \"is avoiding general meetings... It holds meetings with other parties, one at a time, which it is entitled to do, and after such meetings these parties come out with statements and articles which defend everything which China says and does. Now the entire concern of the Communist Party of China is that the Marxist-Leninist communist movement should accept that the ideas of Mao Tsetung lead the world, accept the cult of Mao, the Proletarian Cultural Revolution and the entire line of the Communist Party of China with its good points and its mistakes... Just as the opinions of one party cannot be accepted en bloc, neither can those of two parties be accepted en bloc. All must state their opinion. Therefore, the joint meeting and the taking of joint decisions is important.\"\n\nFollowing the Soviet invasion of Czechoslovakia in 1968 an Albanian delegation to Beijing was told by Zhou Enlai that \"Albania, as a small country, had no need of heavy armament and that it was not at all in a position to defend itself alone from foreign aggression... Therefore, according to Chou En-lai, the only road for Albania to cope with foreign aggression was that of... concluding a military alliance with Yugoslavia and with Rumania... [and he] repeated this same thesis to the Albanian Government delegation which had gone to Peking in July 1975... [which] was turned down again by our delegation in a clear-cut and categorical manner.\" An indication of the Albanian position on Romania was shown by Nicolae Ceaușescu's visit to China in June 1971, with Hoxha writing in his diary that: \"Hsinhua reported only that [Mao] said to him: 'Rumanian comrades, we should unite to bring down imperialism'. As if Ceausescu and company are to bring down imperialism!! If the world waits for the Ceausescus to do such a thing, imperialism will live for tens of thousands of years. It is the proletariat and the peoples that fight imperialism.\"\n\nFollowing Lin Biao's downfall the Chinese leadership began seeking an accommodation with the United States against the Soviet Union, viewing the latter as a more dangerous opponent to its interests. Henry Kissinger's visit to China in July 1971 and the subsequent announcement of Nixon's visit came as a shock to the Albanians, with Hoxha writing in his diary at the time that \"when the Americans were killing and bombing in Vietnam and the whole of Indochina, China held secret talks with the Americans... These disgraceful, anti-Marxist, uncomradely negotiations were held without the knowledge of the Vietnamese, let alone any knowledge on our part. This was scandalous. This was a betrayal of the Chinese towards the Vietnamese, towards their war, towards us, their allies, and all the other progressive peoples. This is revolting.\" \n\nA month later the CC of the PLA sent a letter to its Chinese counterpart strongly protesting the decision to receive Nixon, writing among other things that \"regardless of the result of the talks, the very fact that Nixon, who is known as a rabid anti-communist, as an aggressor and murderer of peoples, as the representative of the blackest of American reaction, is to be received in China, has many minuses and will bring many negative consequences to the revolutionary movement and our cause. There is no way in which Nixon's visit to China and the talks with him can fail to create harmful illusions about American imperialism. ... It will exert a negative influence on the resistance and struggle of the American people themselves against the policy and aggressive activity of the government of Nixon, who will seize the opportunity to run for President again. ... It is not hard to guess what the Italian workers who clashed with the police and demonstrated their repugnance to Nixon's recent visit to Italy, the Japanese workers who did not allow Eisenhower even to set foot on their territory, and the peoples of Latin America who protested and rose against the Rockefellers and all the other envoys of the Washington government, will think. Only the Yugoslav Titoites and the Rumanian revisionists welcomed President Nixon to their capitals with flowers.\" The CC of the CCP did not reply to the letter. In that year and in 1972, however, the Chinese did send messages notifying the Albanians that they should expect a lower level of economic activity with China in the future.\n\nIn October 1971 Hoxha was informed that the Chinese would not be sending a delegation to the 6th Congress of the PLA held next month, which prompted Hoxha to write that, \"Every cloud has a silver lining. Reaction and the revisionists will make the most of this anti-Marxist action of the leadership of the Communist Party of China, but the international communist movement will judge how right our Party has been in its line and how wrong the Communist Party of China is on this question.\" At the 6th Congress Hoxha indirectly criticized recent Chinese foreign policy moves by declaring that, \"As long as American imperialism and the Soviet revisionist imperialism are two imperialist superpowers and come out with a common counter-revolutionary strategy, it is impossible for the struggle of the peoples against them not to merge into a single current. You cannot rely on the one imperialism to oppose the other.\"\n\nIn 1973 China's trade with Albania experienced a significant decline, to $136 million from $167 million a year earlier. Reflecting on China's relations with the PLA at this point, Hoxha wrote that \"Chou En-lai, Li Hsien-nien and Mao have cut off their contacts with us, and the contacts which they maintain are merely formal diplomatic ones. Albania is no longer the 'faithful, special friend'. For them it comes at the end of the line, after Rumania and Yugoslavia in Europe ... it is quite obvious that their 'initial ardour' has died.\" In April the same year Geng Biao informed the Albanians that \"China does not approve the creation of Marxist-Leninist parties and does not want the representatives of these parties to come to China. Their coming is a nuisance to us but we can do nothing about them, for we cannot send them away. We accept them just as we accept the representatives of bourgeois parties.\"\n\nIn 1974–75 various figures in Albanian military, economic and cultural fields were arrested, with some executed on charges of plotting a coup d'état which would install a government favorable to greater ties with the West and which would promote economic and cultural liberalization on broadly Yugoslav lines. In his diary at the time Hoxha wrote that, \"The Chinese make a friend of any state, any person, whether Trotskyite, Titoite, or a Chiang Kai-shek man, if he says, 'I am against the Soviets'. We are opposed to this principle... It is clear that the Chinese do not like these and other stands of ours, because they tear down the Marxist-Leninist disguise they want to maintain, therefore they are exerting pressure on us. This pressure is economic, because politically and ideologically they have never made us yield and will never be able to make us yield. ... Their pressure is not imaginary, but took concrete form in the military and economic plot headed by Beqir Balluku, Petrit Dume, Hito Çako, Abdyl Këllezi, Koço Theodhosi, Lipe Nashi, etc.\"\n\nIn April 1974 Deng Xiaoping, head of the Chinese delegation to the United Nations, proclaimed the \"Three Worlds Theory\" at a speech to its General Assembly, which declared that the world was divided into \"first\" (the United States and the Soviet Union), \"second\" (France, Great Britain, West Germany, Japan, etc.), and \"third\" (the various countries of Africa, Latin America and Asia) worlds, of which China was declared to be in the third. Writing on such matters, Hoxha declared that, \"When China took its pro-American and anti-Soviet stance, this policy was manifested in all its relations with the foreign world. Imperialist America, the fascists Pinochet and Franco, Tito and Ceausescu, renegades and adventurers, German revanchists and Italian fascists are its friends. For China ideology has no importance... The Chinese imagine (there is no other way their actions can be interpreted) that the whole world thinks and is convinced that China is red and revolutionary. This policy which China is pursuing has a 'revolutionary' aim: to unite the 'third world', the 'second world' and American imperialism against the Soviet social-imperialists. And from their actions it turns out that in order to achieve this 'ideal' they must not take much account of principles. 'We now defend the United States of America,' the Chinese justify themselves, 'because it is weaker than the Soviet Union, but with this we must also deepen the contradictions between the Soviet Union and the United States of America'. ... Having deviated from a principled Marxist-Leninist class policy, China, naturally, must base itself on the political conjunctures, on the manoeuvres and intrigues of reactionary governments.\"\n\nIn response to Albania's refusal to endorse the \"Three Worlds Theory,\" the rapprochement with the United States, and other activities, \"Beijing had drastically reduced the flow of its economic and military assistance\" to Albania by 1976, trade declining to $116 million in that year from $168 in 1975.\n\nAt the 7th Congress of the PLA held in November 1976 Hoxha indicated his opposition to the new Chinese leadership that had taken over with the death of Mao Zedong in September by refusing to mention Hua Guofeng and openly denouncing Deng Xiaoping while calling for a multilateral meeting of Marxist–Leninist parties. According to the Albanians in their 1978 letter to the Chinese, the latter had tried to pressure them to denounce those who were not part of the ruling group in China: \"As we did not do this, it comes to the conclusion that we are partisans of Lin Piao and 'the gang of four'. It is wrong in both aspects. ... The Party of Labour of Albania never tramples on Marxist-Leninist principles, and has never been, nor will it ever be, anybody's tool.\" The Congress also saw activity on the part of various delegations from \"anti-revisionist\" parties, 29 in all, of whom a number expressed definite preference for the Albanian line over its Chinese counterpart.\n\nSpeaking at the Congress, Hoxha reiterated his declaration at the 6th Congress on opposing both superpowers equally, and also denounced the Common Market and NATO, both of which were looked upon favorably by China in its anti-Soviet strategy. \"Loyal to the interests of the revolution, socialism, and the peoples,\" Hoxha said, \"our Party will support the proletariat and the peoples who are against the two superpowers and for their destruction, against the capitalist and revisionist bourgeoisie and for its overthrow.\" In December the Albanians were given a Chinese note criticizing Hoxha's report to the Congress, with Hoxha deciding to have the CC of the PLA give an official reply, stressing in it that \"the PLA is an independent Marxist-Leninist party which formulates its own line itself, from the viewpoint of the Marxist-Leninist theory, on the basis of realistic analyses of the internal and external situation... it accepts criticism by sister Marxist-Leninist parties, and it will discuss many problems with them, and vice-versa, the PLA also has the same right towards other sister parties.\" Hoxha also had the reply mention that various letters sent to the CC of the CCP by its Albanian counterpart never received replies, such as the letter on Nixon's decision to visit China. The new Albanian letter did not receive a reply.\n\nAround this time Hoxha began analyzing the works of Mao Zedong and the history of the Communist Party of China. As part of his examination of the then-recently released 1956 Mao speech \"On the Ten Major Relationships\" in late December, Hoxha wrote of the Sino-Soviet split that \"Mao's aim was to help not Khrushchev but himself, so that China would become the main leader of the communist world... He wanted meetings, wanted social-democratic agreements because he himself was a social-democrat, an opportunist, a revisionist. But Mao could not extinguish the fire [against perceived Soviet revisionism] or the polemic, and seeing that he was unable to establish his hegemony, he changed his stand. Mao took a somewhat 'better' anti-Soviet stand, and here he appeared to be in accord with us who were fighting Khrushchevite revisionism consistently. But even at this time he had hopes of rapprochement with the Khrushchevite revisionists. ... Then, from the strategy of the fight on the two flanks he turned towards the United States of America.\" Hoxha further wrote that: \"Mao Tsetung accuses Stalin of left adventurism, of having exerted great pressure on China and the Communist Party of China. ... Glancing over all the main principles of Mao Tsetung's revisionist line, in regard to all those things which he raises against Stalin, we can say without reservation that Stalin was truly a great Marxist-Leninist who foresaw correctly where China was going, who long ago realized what the views of Mao Tsetung were, and saw that, in many directions, they were Titoite revisionist views, both on international policy and on internal policy, on the class struggle, on the dictatorship of the proletariat, on peaceful coexistence between countries with different social systems, etc.\"\n\nIn May 1977 a Chinese parliamentary delegation visited Romania and Yugoslavia, but not Albania, and referred to the Yugoslav system as socialist while praising the Non-Aligned Movement, while Tito was invited to Beijing in August and praised by his hosts. In September 1978 Tito declared that, according to Hua, \"Mao Zedong said that he should have invited me for a visit, stressing that in 1948, too, Yugoslavia was in the right, a thing which he had declared even then, to a narrow circle. But, taking into consideration the relations between China and the Soviet Union at that time, this was not said publicly.\"\n\nOn July 7, 1977 an editorial in \"Zëri i Popullit\" written but not signed by Hoxha and entitled \"The Theory and Practice of the Revolution\" openly attacked the \"Three Worlds Theory\" by name and thus signified a direct attack on the Chinese. Among other things the editorial stated that, \"The Marxist-Leninists do not confuse the fervent liberation, revolutionary and socialist aspirations and desires of the peoples and the proletariat of the countries of the so-called 'third world' with the aims and policy of the oppressive compradore bourgeoisie of those countries ... to speak in general terms about the so-called 'third world' as the main force of the struggle against imperialism ... means a flagrant departure from the teachings of Marxism-Leninism and to preach typically opportunist views ... according to the theory of the 'three worlds', the peoples of those countries must not fight, for instance, against the bloody fascist dictatorships of Geisel in Brazil and Pinochet in Chile, Suharto in Indonesia, the Shah of Iran or the King of Jordan, etc., because they, allegedly, are part of the 'revolutionary motive force which is driving the wheel of world history forward'. On the contrary, according to this theory, the peoples and revolutionaries ought to unite with the reactionary forces and regimes of the 'third world' and support them, in other words, give up the revolution.\" Furthermore, \"The supporters of the theory of 'three worlds' claim that it gives great possibilities for exploitation of inter-imperialist contradictions. The contradictions in the enemy camp should be exploited, but in what way and for what aim? ... The absolutisation of inter-imperialist contradictions and the underestimation of the basic contradiction, that between the revolution and the counter-revolution ... are in total opposition to the teachings of Marxism-Leninism.\" And, \"This is an anti-revolutionary 'theory' because it preaches social peace, collaboration with the bourgeoisie, hence giving up the revolution, to the proletariat of Europe, Japan, Canada, etc. ... it justifies and supports the neo-colonialist and exploiting policy of the imperialist powers of the 'second world' and calls on the peoples of Asia, Africa and Latin America not to oppose this policy, allegedly for the sake of the struggle against the superpowers.\"\n\nHoxha wrote on the occasion of the editorial's publication that, \"The Chinese did not make the slightest effort to defend their notorious theses about the revolution, because in fact there was no way in which they could defend them, because the division into three worlds and the inclusion of China in the 'third world', is nothing but an effort to extinguish the proletarian revolution and make the proletariat submit to the yoke of the capitalist bourgeoisie of the industrialized countries and of American imperialism. This absurd anti-Marxist theory allegedly combated Soviet social-imperialism which was endangering American imperialism, Chinese social-imperialism and the developed capitalist countries. The Chinese theories, which have their source in the bourgeois-revisionist views of Mao Tsetung, Chou En-lai, Teng Hsiao-ping and Chairman Hua, take no account at all of the peoples and the revolution.\" The Chinese temporarily revived their interest in the pro-Chinese parties in order to use them as polemicists against attacks on the \"Three Worlds Theory\" while pro-Albanian parties fought back; on November 1 \"People's Daily\" dedicated its entire issue that day to an article entitled \"Chairman Mao's Theory of the Differentiation of the Three Worlds Is A Major Contribution to Marxism-Leninism\" in recognition that China could no longer rely entirely on proxies in defending its foreign policy from the Albanians.\n\nIn December 1977 Hoxha recorded in his diary that a group of Chinese specialists were not being sent to Albania because in their excuse \"the appropriate conditions do not exist, therefore as long as good conditions and understanding have not been created, we are not going to send our specialists for these objects.\" In April and May 1978 the Albanian Foreign Ministry made an official complaint that Chinese experts in the country \"had the deliberate intention of harming Albania's economy\" and on July 7 that year, on the first anniversary of the publication of \"The Theory and Practice of the Revolution,\" the Chinese Foreign Ministry informed the Albanian embassy in Beijing that it was ceasing all economic and military agreements with the country. On July 29 the Albanians replied, declaring the July 7 decision \"a reactionary act from great power positions, an act which is a repetition, in content and form, of the savage and chauvinist methods of Tito, Khrushchev and Brezhnev which China, also, once condemned. The Central Committee of the Party of Labour of Albania and the Albanian Government reject the attempts made in the Chinese note to blame Albania, to groundlessly accuse the Albanian leadership of allegedly being ungrateful for China's aid and of allegedly having tried to sabotage the economic and military cooperation between the two countries. To any normal person it is unbelievable and preposterous that Albania, a small country, which is fighting against the imperialist-revisionist encirclement and blockade and which has set to large-scale and all-round work for the rapid economic and cultural development of its country, which is working tirelessly for the strengthening of the defence capacity of its socialist Homeland, should cause and seek cessation of economic cooperation with China, refuse its civil and military loans and aid.\"\n\nThe letter went on to note delays on the Chinese side in providing equipment and materials for the vast majority of its economic projects in Albania, but also concluded that, \"The true motives for the cessation of aid and loans to Albania have not an exclusively technical character, as the note of the Chinese Government makes out, on the contrary they have a deep political and ideological character.\" The letter concluded that, \"Albania will never submit to anybody, it will stand to the end loyal to Marxism-Leninism and proletarian internationalism. It will march non-stop on the road of socialism and communism illuminated by the immortal teachings of Marx, Engels, Lenin and Stalin. ... Though encircled, socialist Albania is not isolated because it enjoys the respect and love of the world proletariat, the freedom-loving peoples and the honest men and women throughout the world. This respect and love will grow even more in the future. Our cause is just! Socialist Albania will triumph!\"\n\nFollowing the split with China, the Albanians proclaimed that their country was the only one in the world genuinely constructing a socialist society. In December 1977 Hoxha wrote an analysis of the Chinese revolution, declaring that, contrary to the Chinese view, \"in general, the decisions and directives of the Comintern, first of all of the time of Lenin, were correct, and that those of the time of Stalin were correct, too.\" On the character of the revolution he wrote that, \"In my opinion, and as far as I can judge, China carried out a bourgeois-democratic revolution of a new type through the national liberation armed struggle\" and that \"the revolution in China could not be carried through to the end. ... So long as the working class in China shared power with the bourgeoisie, this power, in essence, was never transformed into a dictatorship of the proletariat, and consequently the Chinese revolution could not be a socialist revolution.\"\n\nBiberaj writes that throughout the alliance the Albanians had a definite advantage in that \"the scope of China's decision-making participation in Albania was insignificant ... it was the Albanians rather than the Chinese who decided on the use of the aid... Tiranë was in a stronger bargaining position than Beijing because the Chinese were more keen in maintaining the alliance.\" Peter R. Prifti noted that Albania's relations with China \"emphasize[d] once again the great importance the Albanian leaders attach to ideology ... [and] proved conclusively—if such proof were needed—Albania's independence of China. It demonstrated that the Albanian Party was not a mere mouthpiece of Peking but follows a basically independent foreign policy.\"\n\nRecalling his pre-1956 impressions of China, Hoxha once wrote that, \"It was said that Mao was following an 'interesting' line for the construction of socialism in China, collaborating with the local bourgeoisie and other parties, which they described as 'democratic', 'of the industrialists', etc., that joint private-state enterprises were permitted and stimulated by the communist party there, that elements of the wealthy classes were encouraged and rewarded, and even placed in the leadership of enterprises and provinces, etc., etc. All these things were quite incomprehensible to us and however much you racked your brains, you could not find any argument to describe them as in conformity with Marxism-Leninism. Nevertheless, we thought, China was a very big country, with a population of hundreds of millions, it had just emerged from the dark, feudal-bourgeois past, had many problems and difficulties, and in time it would correct those things which were not in order, on the right road of Marxism-Leninism.\" Likewise in September 1977 Hoxha wrote that, \"The question of Chinese communism has been an enigma to me. I am not saying this only now, but have expressed my doubt years ago in my notes. This doubt arose in my mind immediately after the Bucharest Meeting, and it was aroused because of the timorous stand the Chinese adopted there. ... Khrushchev's activity compelled Teng to change [his conciliatory] report and make it somewhat more severe, because Khrushchev issued a document in which China was attacked, and distributed it before the meeting. Teng was also compelled by the resolute stand of our Party, but that is a long story. The later stands of the Chinese, I am speaking about their political and ideological stands, have shown continuous vacillation, and this was precisely the basis of the enigma and my doubt about them ... but now we can say that this policy of China was a great fraud, a major manoeuvre of the Chinese revisionists to disguise themselves.\"\n\nIn the view of the Albanians, the shift in China's line between 1956 and 1960 was due to the following: \"After the death of Stalin, the Chinese, with Mao Zedong at the head, thought that their time had come ... they wanted to gain as much as they could from Soviet economic aid, in order to become a great power, indeed, an atomic power. But these projects could not be carried out smoothly. If Mao Zedong had his hegemonistic ambitions, Khrushchev and his associates had their expansionist plans, too. ... While making most of what benefit they could get from the Chinese, at the same time Khrushchev and his associates began to be 'cautious' and 'restrained' in their support and aid for them. They did not want China to grow strong, economically or militarily. ... The policy of rapprochement with American imperialism, which Khrushchev was pursuing, likewise, was incompatible with the interests of the Chinese, because that would leave China out of the game of great powers. In this situation, seeing that Khrushchev's line had caused concern in the communist movement, the Communist Party of China seized the opportunity ... seized the 'banner' of defence of the principles of Marxism–Leninism. ... Undoubtedly, not to compel Khrushchev to abandon his course of betrayal of Marxism-Leninism, but to have him accept the hegemony of China and join it in its plans.\" As Hoxha put it, \"when Mao Zedong and his associates saw that they would not easily emerge triumphant over the patriarch of modern revisionism, Khrushchev, through the revisionist contest, they changed their tactic, pretended to reject their former flag, presented themselves as 'pure Marxist-Leninists', striving in this way, to win those positions which they had been unable to win with their former tactic. When this second tactic turned out no good, either, they 'discarded' their second, allegedly Marxist-Leninist, flag and came out in the arena as they had always been, opportunists, loyal champions of a line of conciliation and capitulation towards capital and reaction. We were to see all these things confirmed in practice, through a long, difficult and glorious struggle which our Party waged in defence of Marxism–Leninism.\"\n\nIn December 1978 Hoxha's \"Imperialism and the Revolution\" was released, the second half of which was a criticism of the \"Three Worlds Theory,\" Chinese foreign policy in general, and Maoism. Hoxha declared that China had become a \"social-imperialist\" country, aspiring to superpower status alongside the USA and USSR by tactically allying with the former against the latter on account of the former's greater economic strength and willingness to invest in the Chinese economy. On the subject of Maoism Hoxha stated that \"Mao Zedong was not a Marxist-Leninist, but a progressive revolutionary democrat, who remained for a long time at the head of the Communist Party of China and played an important role in the triumph of the Chinese democratic anti-imperialist revolution. Within China, in the ranks of the party, among the people and outside China, he built up his reputation as a great Marxist-Leninist and he himself posed as a communist, as a Marxist-Leninist dialectician. But this was not so. He was an eclectic who combined some elements of Marxist dialectics with idealism, even with ancient Chinese philosophy.\"\n\nIn a 1988 publication, the Albanians stated that they \"appreciated China's aid and its role, among other outside factors, in the development of our country's economy, seeing it as aid by a friendly people, aid without strings attached and without political conditions, which served the general cause of the revolution and socialism.\" However, \"In order to subjugate the PLA and the Albanian state, the Chinese revisionists raised many serious difficulties and obstacles for the fulfilment of the 6th Five-Year Plan [of 1976-1980]. Under various trumped-up excuses, they recalled some of their specialists who worked in Albania, slowed down the rates of work and, especially, postponed the setting up of the industrial projects ... which were planned to be built with the aid of China.\" Following the split Albania also became a country \"relying entirely on its own forces, without any kind of aid or credits from abroad, without external and internal debts.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14492378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14492378", "title": "Special relationship (international relations)", "text": "Special relationship (international relations)\n\nA special relationship is a diplomatic relationship that is especially strong and important. This term is usually used to refer to the historic relationship between the United States and the United Kingdom. In its extended use outside it and the Anglosphere, it has also been used to describe the whole of EU–US relations and the following relations:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1089321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1089321", "title": "Steve Hofmeyr", "text": "Steve Hofmeyr\n\nSteve Hofmeyr (born 29 August 1964) is a South African singer, songwriter, political activist, actor and TV presenter.\n\nHofmeyr married actress Natasha Sutherland, whom he had met on the set of \"\" in 1998. They had two sons. Hofmeyr also has three other children by other women The couple was divorced after reports of numerous affairs dominated Hofmeyr's time in the spotlight in 2008.\n\nIn December 2008, Hofmeyr allegedly assaulted Esmaré Weideman, editor of \"Huisgenoot\", a popular Afrikaans magazine, by pouring a cup of cold tea over her at the Miss South Africa finals. He was said to have blamed her and two other journalists for his divorce from Sutherland. Miss Weideman subsequently dropped her accusations.\n\nOn 19 December 2013, Hofmeyr was arrested in Bronkhorstspruit for driving at 169 km/h in an 80 km/h zone and was released on bail of R500. He was subsequently fined R10,000 in the Bronkhorstspruit Magistrate's Court on 23 January 2014.\n\nHofmeyr married Janine van der Vyver on 26 January 2014. In 2008, van der Vyver, a fitness instructor, revealed they had been seeing each other for 10 years.\n\nHofmeyr's grandfather, Steve Hofmeyr Sr., was a leader in the Ossewabrandwag, a South African political and guerrilla organisation which supported Germany during World War II.\n\nIn January 2007, there were reports that one branch of the News Cafe restaurant chain would not play Hofmeyr's song \"Pampoen\". The managing director of the company that owns the franchise denies that this is company policy and points out that many Afrikaans acts, such as Karen Zoid and Arno Carstens have performed at News Cafe.\n\nOn 12 May 2011, Hofmeyr released the lyrics to his new song called \"Ons sal dit oorleef\", which means \"We will survive this\". The song is controversial, because Hofmeyr threatened to include the ethnic slur \"kaffir\" in the lyrics of the song. \nHofmeyr removed the offensive word in his song, citing that the word would offend his black friends and colleagues.\n\nIn 2011, he made public that he supports the Afrikaner advocacy group \"Expedition for Afrikaner Self-Determination\" (Onafhanklike Afrikaner Selfbeskikkingsekspedisie, OASE).\n\nHofmeyr was heavily criticised after performing the former South African national anthem, \"Die Stem\", at a cultural festival known as \"Innibos\" in Nelspruit in July 2014. He went on to perform the anthem on international tours, and encouraged white South Africans to continue singing it, stating that it did not contain any form of hate speech.\n\nIn October 2014, Hofmeyr wrote and published a tweet stating that he believed that black South Africans were the \"architects of apartheid\" on his public Twitter account. This prompted a significant public backlash. One of Hofmeyr's critics was puppeteer Conrad Koch through his puppet Chester Missing, who launched a campaign calling on companies to stop sponsoring Hofmeyr. On 27 November 2014, Hofmeyr failed to acquire a final protection order against Koch and his puppet in the Randburg Magistrate's Court.\n\nHofmeyr has given statements indicative of apartheid denialism, leading various journalists and political analysts to label him a \"disgrace to South Africa\".\n\nHofmeyr has made numerous claims relating to murders of white South Africans. Hofmeyr has claimed that whites, and in particular Afrikaners, are being \"killed like flies\", posting on Facebook that \"my tribe is dying\". Hofmeyr also posted a picture of a \"World Cup soccer stadium\" which he claimed could be filled by the number of whites murdered by blacks. However, Africa Check, a fact-checking organisation has found Hofmeyr's claims to be \"incorrect and grossly exaggerated\" - pointing out that whites are in fact \"less likely to be murdered than any other race group\". Lizette Lancaster from the Institute for Security Studies told Africa Check that \"Whites are far less likely to be murdered than their black or coloured counterparts.\" While white South Africans account for nearly 9% of the population they account for just 1.8% of murder victims.\nDuring May 2018, The minister of Police, Mr Bheki Cele released farm attack statistics for the first time in years. <\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38396965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38396965", "title": "Tea Party Community", "text": "Tea Party Community\n\nThe Tea Party Community is a social networking and political networking website intended as an alternative to Facebook for use by American conservatives, founded by Ken Crow, Tim Selaty, Sr. and Tim Selaty, Jr. in November 2012 and launching on February 2, 2013. In January 2013, Crow accused Facebook of intentionally targeting conservative members for censorship and described the new site as \"a new home for conservatives and the Tea Party movement in America\", which could help to facilitate \"the organizational process\" of the movement. The Tea Party Community is aesthetically similar to Facebook, which Crow described as intentional. As of February 1, 2013, it had drawn over 50,000 members.\n\n"}
{"id": "8176984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8176984", "title": "Think Again", "text": "Think Again\n\nTHINK AGAIN is an artist-activist collaborative founded in 1997 by David John Attyah (b. Los Angeles) and S.A. Bachman (b. Columbus, Ohio.) They produce interventions that recruit art-making in the service of public address. Their work — digital murals, billboards and wallscapes, exterior projections, and viral poster campaigns — links the global to the local and combines cultural theory, sociological research, and activism to create a visual language for engaging civic dialogue. THINK AGAIN projects have explored a diverse range of issues including queer liberation; the ways capitalism and misogyny conspire to jeopardize women and the outnumbered; the logic of militarization; international labor and the treatment of immigrants; and gentrification and displacement.\n\nMany of its projects privilege face-to-face interactions: handing out postcards at Pride parades, parking mobile billboards in front of City Halls and grocery stores, and disseminating posters to activists mobilizing against the war machine. THINK AGAIN has distributed tens of thousands of printed matter free-of-charge through art spaces, grassroots community organizations, unions and the internet. Documentation of the work of THINK AGAIN can be found at http://sabachman.com and http://www.dja-art.work\n\nTHINK AGAIN exhibitions include:\n\n\"Actions Speak,\" Worcester Museum of Art, Worcester, MA\n\n\"Antagonisms,\" Museu d´Art Contemporani de Barcelona, Spain\n\n\"The Anti-War Show: US Interventions From Korea to Iraq,\" Track 16 Gallery, Los Angeles, CA\n\n\"Reactions,\" Exit Art, New York City, NY\n\n\"The Culture of Class: Issues of Class in North American Culture,\" Maryland Institute College of Art\n\n\"Not for Profit,\" Loyola Marymount University Art Museum\n\"Democracy in America,\" Arizona State University Art Museum\n\n\"A Brief History of Outrage,\" 16:1 Gallery, Los Angeles, CA\n\n\"New Season,\" Museum of New Art, Detroit, MI\n\nThey have received awards from the Massachusetts Cultural Council, LEF Foundation, Tanne Foundation and The Funding Exchange/Outfund.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20757649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20757649", "title": "U.S. Army Public Health Center", "text": "U.S. Army Public Health Center\n\nThe U.S. Army Public Health Center (APHC) is a United States Army element headquartered at Aberdeen Proving Ground, Maryland, United States. As a forward operating agency of the United States Army Medical Command, APHC is responsible for providing technical support and expertise in the areas of preventive medicine, public health, health promotion, and wellness to military units around the globe. \n\nThroughout the history of warfare, armies have depended on clean water, wholesome food, sanitation, disease and injury prevention, hazard-free environments and other sound public health practices to keep Soldiers in fighting form. The Army Public Health Center has broadened the scope of the public health mission to meet today’s Army’s needs: to enhance Army readiness by identifying and assessing current and emerging health threats; developing and communicating public health solutions; and assuring the quality and effectiveness of the Army’s Public Health Enterprise.\n\nJohn Resta serves as the director.\n\nThe Maryland Office of ORAU and Oak Ridge Institute for Science and Education (ORISE) administers research participation programs for APHC.\n\nThe lineage of the APHC can be traced back more than 70 years to the Army Industrial Hygiene Laboratory, which was established in 1942 at the beginning of World War II under the direct jurisdiction of the Army surgeon general. AIHL originally was located at the Johns Hopkins School of Hygiene and Public Health; it had a staff of three and an annual budget of $3,000. Its mission was to conduct occupational health surveys and investigations within the Department of Defense industrial production base, a mission that proved beneficial to the nation’s war effort. In October 1945, AIHL was transferred to what is now Aberdeen Proving Ground - South. From 1940 to 1960, AIHL's mission and personnel continued to expand, and AIHL became the U.S. Army Environmental Hygiene Agency (USAEHA).\n\nIn 1973, USAEHA became a subordinate command of the U.S. Army Health Services Command (the latter later became the United States Army Medical Command). The following year, USAEHA was given command of the health and environmental resources of the Army medical laboratories. These assets became USAEHA subordinate commands.\n\nIn 1994, USAEHA was re-designated as the United States Army Center for Health Promotion and Preventive Medicine. In addition to its continental United States regional commands, USACHPPM also had two subordinate commands. In 1995, USACHPPM Europe was activated in Landstuhl, Germany, and USACHPPM Pacific was activated, moving in 1997 to Camp Zama, Japan.\n\nIn 2010, the center was merged with the United States Army Veterinary Command (VETCOM) to form U.S. Army Public Health Command. VETCOM supported almost 500 DOD installations worldwide and included the DOD Veterinary Food Analysis and Diagnostic Laboratory and the DOD Military Working Dog Veterinary Service. Through this merger, a uniquely capable military organization was born—one that embodies the “One Health” approach to public health.\n\nOne Health is the concept that health in animals, people, and the environment is interrelated; that is, the health of each contributes to the health of all. The formal uniting of prevention, health promotion, and veterinary missions allowed for full coordination, synchronization, and integration of the military public health services around the globe.\n\nUSAPHC, inactivated on October 1, 2016, had six subordinate elements: the Army Institute for Health and five regional commands located at Fort George G. Meade in Maryland; Joint Base San Antonio in Texas; Joint Base Lewis-McChord in Washington; Landstuhl Regional Medical Center in Germany; and Camp Zama in Japan. USAPHC's mission was to promote health and prevent disease, injury, and disability of Soldiers and retirees, their Families, and Army civilians, and to provide veterinary medicine services for the Army and Department of Defense. USAPHC also provided consulting services to senior military leaders, commanders both deployed and in garrison, and military medical and health professionals.\n\nThe APHC reached provisional status on August 17, 2015 and full operating capacity on October 1, 2016.\n\nHeadquartered at Aberdeen Proving Ground, Maryland, the APHC is a field operating agency assigned to U.S. Army Medical Command, but it is unique among MEDCOM organizations in these ways:\n\nThe APHC draws on a distinguished legacy to provide public health services to its Army and Department of Defense customers around the world. It standardizes and promulgates practices and procedures used throughout the public health enterprise, provides one-of-a-kind and reach-back technical capabilities, and oversees quality assurance of public health missions. \n\nThe organization completes an extensive amount of analytical support to global operations and is responsible for the collection and archival of all deployment occupational and environmental health surveillance data. \n\nAPHC personnel have expertise in a variety of fields. Their professions include almost 70 scientific and technical disciplines, which are brought to bear on public health issues and problems in matrixed teams.\n\nThe APHC continues to fulfill its mission of enhancing Army readiness and focusing on promoting healthy people, communities, animals and workplaces.\n\n"}
{"id": "52167940", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52167940", "title": "Vote pairing in the 2016 United States presidential election", "text": "Vote pairing in the 2016 United States presidential election\n\nVote pairing in the 2016 United States presidential election refers to vote pairing that occurred between United States citizens domiciled in different states during the 2016 United States presidential election.\n\nVote pairing occurs when two people commit to voting in a mutually agreed upon manner. In United States presidential elections, vote pairing usually comes in the form of voters from \"safe\" states, or non-swing states, voting for third-party candidates, and voters from swing states voting for their second-preference candidate. This form of vote pairing encourages third-party support while minimizing the risk that the more favored major-party candidate will lose electoral votes in the nationwide election (i.e., the \"spoiler effect\"). In the 2016 United States presidential election, this has usually manifested in the form of supporters in swing states of Libertarian candidate Gary Johnson and Green Party candidate Jill Stein swapping votes with supporters in blue states of Democratic candidate Hillary Clinton.\n\nVote pairing was used in the 2000 United States presidential election, where Al Gore supporters were concerned that votes for the left-leaning third-party candidate, Ralph Nader, could siphon off critical support for Al Gore in swing states like Florida. As the election neared, several \"Nader Trader\" websites emerged. Through these websites, a Nader supporter in swing state Florida could promise to vote for Gore, and in exchange, a Gore supporter in a strongly Democratic state like California would promise to vote for Nader. However, word didn't spread fast enough and vote pairing had a negligible effect on the electorate.\n\nIn the 2004, 2008, and 2012 presidential elections, vote pairing was rarely used or talked about, possibly because there were no third party candidates who seriously challenged the major-party candidates.\n\nIn the 2016 presidential election, the terms \"vote pairing\", \"vote swapping\", and \"vote trading\" have all been used by media outlets to describe the same basic phenomenon.\n\nSeveral vote pairing sites have been created during the 2016 United States presidential election; among them are Trump Traders, the #NeverTrump app, Balanced Rebellion, VotePact, and MakeMineCount. These vote pairing sites fall in three broad categories:\n\nLaunched by Amit Kumar, the app seeks to give a voice to both Hillary and third-party voters. The end goal of this, as the name suggests, is to prevent Donald Trump from being elected. The premise is that third-party voters in swing states are matched with Hillary voters in blue states. This makes it so Hillary gets more swing state votes and third-party candidates get their vote counted.\n\nThe app has two main functions:\nThe #NeverTrump app has between 500 and 1000 installs on Google Play, and more than a thousand users in total.\n\nA Stein or Johnson supporter in a swing state is matched with a Clinton supporter in an uncontested state.\n\nRegistered users are matched on the website, and then take it from there.\n\nTrump Trades connects third-party supporters from swing states with Hillary Clinton supporters in uncontested states (definitely Democratic or definitely Republican states), with the third-party supporter agreeing to vote for Clinton and the Clinton supporter agreeing to vote for the third party. For a while, Trump Traders offered a 2:1 exchange rate: a single third-party supporter could vote for Clinton in exchange for getting two Clinton supporters to change their vote. According to Republicans for Clinton in 2016 co-founder John Stubbs, most users are matched within 1 to 2 hours. As of October 31 more than 10,000 voters have signed up for Trump Traders.\n\nAfter being matched, two users sort out everything else on their own.\n\nThe premise is that a disgruntled Trump voter and a disgruntled Clinton voter agree to both vote for Gary Johnson. The site then matches two users to allow them to work things out.\n\nAlternativePAC's chief Matt Kibbe reported that as of September 7, 2016, 33,393 Democrats and 33,036 Republicans have signed up, for a total of 66,429 signed up and 30,819 successful matches made, covering 61,638 people.\n\nBalanced Rebellion has created several viral videos with the goal of spreading their message. Their comedy video \"What Abe Lincoln Prophesied About Trump and Hillary\" has over 35 million views and 750 thousand shares on Facebook as of November 2, 2016.\n\nDisenchanted Republicans pair up with disenchanted Democrats and both vote for third party or independent candidates instead of voting for the two establishment parties. By forming this pact, the major-party candidates on both sides are deprived of one vote. This prevents the spoiler effect from happening.\n\nIndividuals wishing to vote pact must find matches by themselves. VotePact has set up a Facebook page to help facilitate the process.\n\nOne criticism of vote pairing is that vote pairing agreements are unenforceable, given the secret ballot, as well as the fact that vote pairing agreements are not legal contracts, and thus not legally binding.\n\nStein campaign co-chair Gloria Mattera has been critical of vote pairing schemes of type (1) and (2), stating that the campaign's position on vote pairing is that it is a failed strategy because voting for the \"lesser evil\" had led to the most disliked and distrusted major party candidates in history, and that instead Americans should vote for the candidate who best represents their interests.\n\nOther criticisms of vote pairing consist of arguments against supporting third-parties in the first place. One criticism is that helping third parties could hurt the Democratic Party in future elections, because if a third party secures 5% of the total votes, they are entitled to federal funds, and can then siphon off more votes from the Democratic Party in future elections.\n\nThe main vote-swapping site in the 2000 United States presidential election, voteswap2000.com, was shut down by California's Republican Attorney General, Bill Jones, only four days after it opened. A second vote-swapping site, votexchange.com, was never directly threatened but also ceased operations because of what happened to voteswap2000. Before it was shut down, voteswap2000 had brokered 5,041 vote-swaps, including hundreds in Florida.\n\nOn August 6, 2007, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals ruled on a case, \"Porter v. Bowen\", stemming from the California Attorney General's shutdown of voteswap2000.com. Vote-swapping, it said, is protected by the First Amendment, which state election laws can't supersede, and it is fundamentally different from buying or selling votes. Furthermore, vote pairing agreements are not legally binding. However, it is unclear if other courts would agree should this arise again, and in recent years, the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals has had the most decision reversals of any United States court of appeals.\n"}
{"id": "54261368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54261368", "title": "Way Out Alliance", "text": "Way Out Alliance\n\nThe Way Out Alliance (; \"YELK Dashink, YELQ\") or Yelk Alliance or simply Yelk or Way Out was a liberal political alliance of three political parties in Armenia: Civil Contract, Bright Armenia and the Hanrapetutyun Party party. It was formed on 12 December 2016, before the 2017 Armenian parliamentary election. Its leaders were Edmon Marukyan (leader of Bright Armenia), Nikol Pashinyan (leader of Civil Contract, Prime Minister of Armenia) and Aram Sargsyan (leader of Republic and former Prime Minister for six months in 1999-2000). It was dissolved on 12 September 2018 after its constituent parties agreed to participate in the 2018 parliamentary elections separately.\n\nOn 2 April 2017 the alliance participated in the 2017 Armenian parliamentary election with Edmon Marukyan as the leader of the alliance and won 9 seats out of 105 in National Assembly.\n\nAfter parliamentary elections the party participated in the 2017 Yerevan City Council election. The alliance's candidate for the Mayor of Yerevan was Nikol Pashinyan. However the alliance won only 14 seats out of 65 in the Yerevan City Council and Nikol Pashinyan gave up his mandate of City Council and continued his work in National Assembly as a MP.\n\nThe alliance did not participate in the 2018 Yerevan City Council election. Bright Armenia and the Hanrapetutyun Party formed another alliance - Bright Alliance while Civil Contract formed My Step Alliance with Mission Party. My Step Alliance won the elections and their candidate Hayk Marutyan was appointed as the Mayor of Yerevan while Bright Alliance was the third in elections and won 3 seats out of 65 in Yerevan City Council.\n\nThe Way Out Alliance's ideology is based on liberalism. In terms of foreign relations of Armenia, the alliance states that Armenia's decision to join Eurasian Economic Union was wrong and had a negative impact on the country. The alliance proposed to renegotiate with the EU on signing the Deep and Comprehensive Free Trade Agreement.\n"}
