{"id": "3449396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3449396", "title": "António Castanheira Neves", "text": "António Castanheira Neves\n\nAntónio Castanheira Neves (born 8 November 1929 in Tábua) is a Portuguese legal philosopher and a professor emeritus at the law faculty of the University of Coimbra.\n\nAccording to Castanheira Neves, law can only be understood through \"legal problems\" (roughly, legal cases), which have to be solved within the legal system (including a necessary connection to morality). Law, he claims, is not something given or previous, but the solution to legal problems. Legal problems are the decisive starting point. His opposition to positivism, to natural law and to the several theories of legal syllogism would make him one of the first and most accomplished advocates of interpretivism.\n\nCastanheira Neves, however, has always claimed that law — the task of lawyers — is not essentially interpretive or hermeneutical, but practical, \"i.e.\", action guiding. He maintains that legal interpretation is not a necessary feature of legal reasoning. On the contrary, law always arises from legal problems, which are concrete, historically situated, normative, and practical. Every legal decision aims to settle what someone (legally) \"ought to do\" in a particular case in a particular historical (and social) situation, and that is its defining feature. A legal decision is also itself an action. Interpretation is not always needed and, when it is, it is auxiliary.\n\nThe central tenets of Castanheira Neves' philosophy of law were made clear in his 1967 massive book on the philosophical and methodological distinction between matter of fact and matter of law. Castanheira Neves addresses the similarities and significant differences between his and Dworkin's theses in the last part of his 2003 book.\n\nCastanheira Neves also claims that there is no law \"in\" general norms (rules, principles, etc.) as laid down by legislators, but only in solving particular cases. To this thesis, he calls \"jurisprudentialism\".\n\nIn this, he was preceded by authors like Viehweg and schools of thought like critical legal studies, but he differed from these authors as he claimed it to be essential to law as a normative matter, and not only descriptively. His position is therefore equivalent, in this subject, to J. Dancy's later moral particularism. Castanheira Neves would come to agree with Gadamer's dictum that all interpretation is application (as Dworkin did).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24728122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24728122", "title": "Archibald v. Braverman", "text": "Archibald v. Braverman\n\nArchibald v. Braverman, (1969), was a case decided by the California Court of Appeals that first ruled that visual perception of an accident was not a necessary prerequisite to recovery for negligent infliction of emotional distress under the criteria enunciated in \"Dillon v. Legg\". The holding in \"Archibald\" was later overruled by the 1989 case \"Thing v. La Chusa\".\n"}
{"id": "19441928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19441928", "title": "Arctic Environmental Protection Strategy", "text": "Arctic Environmental Protection Strategy\n\nThe Arctic Environmental Protection Strategy (AEPS) (sometimes referred to as the Finnish Initiative) is a multilateral, non-binding agreement among Arctic states on environmental protection in the Arctic. Discussions began in 1989, with the AEPS adopted in June 1991 by Canada, Denmark, Finland, Iceland, Norway, Sweden, the Soviet Union, and the United States. The AEPS deals with monitoring, assessment, protection, emergency preparedness/response, and conservation of the Arctic zone. It has been called a major political accomplishment of the post–Cold War era.\n\nIn January 1989, Finland sent a letter to the other Arctic states proposing a conference on protection of the Arctic environment. The Rovaniemi Meeting of September 1989 established two working groups. This was followed by the second consultative meeting in Yellowknife, Northwest Territories, Canada in April 1990 where a third \"ad hoc\" group was established to develop the strategy. It also resulted in the preparation of a draft document. Kiruna, Sweden was the site of the third meeting, held in January 1991, where one group worked on the drafting the AEPS while another dealt with specific environmental issues.\n\nGovernment officials from all the Arctic nations convened in Rovaniemi in June 1991 for the last consultative meeting. The first three days included meetings, followed by a ministerial-level meeting on 13–14 June observed by representatives from Germany, Poland, the United Kingdom, and the United Nations.\n\nThree indigenous peoples' organizations observed, participated, assisted in developing the strategy, and later became Permanent Participants in the Arctic Council: the Saami Council, the Inuit Circumpolar Conference, and the Association of Indigenous Minorities of the North, Siberia and the Far East of the Russian Federation. They considered the Rovaniemi ministerial meeting to be \"historic\" as it represented the first time that Arctic indigenous peoples participated in an international declaration's preparation process.\n\nOn 14 June 1991, the AEPS and the Declaration on the Protection of the Arctic Environment (\"Rovaniemi Declaration\") were formally adopted. The main objectives were listed as,\n\n\"Preserving environmental quality and natural resources, accommodating environmental protection principals with the needs and traditions of Arctic Native peoples, monitoring environmental conditions, and reducing and eventually eliminating pollution in the Arctic Environment.\"\nThe AEPS outlined five objectives and six pollution issues. Legal issues included its jurisdictional reach and extent of obligations for the member states. Data-gathering, information compilation, and assessment tasks were organized around these issues.\n\nIn their 1993 follow-up meeting in Nuuk, Greenland, ministers endorsed expanding the AEPS in order to deal with sustainable development, and issued the Nuuk Declaration. Another meeting occurred in 1996 in Inuvik, Northwest Territories, Canada, resulting in the Inuvik Declaration, and the establishment of the Arctic Council. The last meeting, held in 1997 in Alta, Norway following the AEPS's 1996 absorption into the Arctic Council resulted in the Alta Declaration.\n\nThe AEPS remains a strategy for the Council's working groups, including: \n\nCritics of the Arctic Environmental Protection Strategy argue that it:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1022497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1022497", "title": "Buenos Aires Convention", "text": "Buenos Aires Convention\n\nThe Buenos Aires Convention (Third Pan-American Convention) is a copyright treaty signed at Buenos Aires, Argentina, on 11 August 1910, providing mutual recognition of copyrights where the work carries a notice containing a statement of reservation of rights (Art. 3). This was commonly done with the phrase \"All rights reserved\" (Spanish \"\"Todos los derechos reservados\", Portuguese \"Todos os direitos reservados\"\") next to the copyright notice. This implementation varied as US law only required the author and year of publishing. Copyright protection under the Convention is granted for the shorter of the terms of the protecting country and the source country of the work (\"rule of the shorter term\", Arts. 6, 7). The rather vague nature of the requirement for a statement of reservation led to the development of longer and more legalistic wordings, which have persisted despite the developments in international copyright law.\n\nThe Convention is specifically retained by the Universal Copyright Convention (UCC) of 6 September 1952 (Art. 18 Geneva Act), with the most recent formulation taking precedence in case of conflict. As the Buenos Aires Convention was not modified, the presence of a simple copyright notice was sufficient to ensure mutual recognition of copyright between countries which became parties to the UCC (which only Honduras never did). As of , all parties to the Buenos Aires Convention are also parties to the Berne Convention for the Protection of Literary and Artistic Works, which provides for mutual recognition of copyright without any formalities (Art. 5.2 Berne).\n\nThe Buenos Aires Convention became a \"special agreement\" in the terms of Article 20 of the Berne Convention. It remains in force, notably for determining the source country of a work and hence the term of protection which is applicable in countries which apply the \"rule of the shorter term\": when a work is simultaneously published in a Convention State and a non-Convention State, the Convention State will be taken to be the source country regardless of the term of protection in the non-Convention State.\n\"Sources\": U.S. Copyright Office, UNESCO, WIPO\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50934559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50934559", "title": "Collins v. Wilcock", "text": "Collins v. Wilcock\n\nCollins v. Wilcock (1984) was a case of trespass to the person focusing on battery. Expanding on Lord Holt's definition of intent in \"Cole v. Turner\", \"Collins v. Wilcock\" narrowed the law. “An assault is committed when a person intentionally or recklessly harms someone indirectly. A battery is committed when a person intentionally and recklessly harms someone directly.\" But it also says this: “An offense of Common Assault is committed when a person either assaults another person or commits a battery.” It notes that the only distinction between common assault and causing actual bodily harm (under section 47 of the Offenses against the Person Act 1861) is the degree of injury.\n"}
{"id": "17178628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17178628", "title": "Commission on Scottish Devolution", "text": "Commission on Scottish Devolution\n\nThe Commission on Scottish Devolution, (, ), also referred to as the Calman Commission, Scottish Parliament Commission or Review was established by an opposition Labour Party motion passed by the Scottish Parliament on 6 December 2007, with the support of the Conservatives and Liberal Democrats. The governing Scottish National Party opposed the creation of the commission.\n\nIts terms of reference were: \"To review the provisions of the Scotland Act 1998 in the light of experience and to recommend any changes to the present constitutional arrangements that would enable the Scottish Parliament to serve the people of Scotland better, improve the financial accountability of the Scottish Parliament and continue to secure the position of Scotland within the United Kingdom.\"\n\nThe Commission held its first full meeting at the Scottish Parliament on 28 April 2008 and met at roughly monthly intervals during its period of work.\n\nIt issued a first report on 2 December 2008, and a final report on 15 June 2009. It was accountable to both the Scottish Parliament and the UK Government.\n\nThe Commission on Scottish Devolution should not be confused with the Scottish Constitutional Commission, which is an independent think-tank.\n\nCalman Plus (also called devolution plus, Devo Plus or Devo 2.0) has been advocated by senior Scottish Liberal Democrat politicians, as the next step in deepening devolution. Calman Plus should not be confused with full fiscal autonomy, although neither concept has been definitively defined.\n\nThe Commission has 15 members, including nominees of the three Unionist parties, representatives of business, trade unions, academia and community organisations.\n\nThe Commission established five task groups to assist it in its work. These met in between meetings of the full Commission. The task groups and their chairs are as follows:\n\nThere is also an independent expert group established to advise the Commission on financial accountability. This is chaired by Professor Anton Muscatelli, Vice-Chancellor and Principal of Heriot-Watt University, and includes academics from Scotland, the rest of the UK and overseas. It produced a detailed report for the Commission in November 2008, examining different models for funding sub-national parliaments, and suggesting that a mixture of grant funding, tax devolution and tax assignment was likely to be necessary in a Scottish context. In June 2009, the IEG published further reports on borrowing and on natural resource taxation, plus a response to some of the Commission's consultation questions.\n\nThe Commission's first report, released in December 2008 declared that devolution had been a success, while making the case for Scotland's continued place within the United Kingdom. On funding, it endorsed the view of the independent expert group that full fiscal autonomy is incompatible with the continuation of the United Kingdom. The Report launched a second phase of consultation, inviting further evidence on a wide range of questions (encapsulated in an accompanying consultation document) by the end of February 2009.\n\nThe Commission's final report was published on 15 June 2009.\n\nThe main conclusions and recommendations are:\n\nResponding to the findings of the review, the British Government announced on 25 November 2009, that new powers would be devolved to the Scottish Government, notably on how it can raise tax and carry out capital borrowing, and the running of Scottish Parliament elections. These proposals were detailed in a white paper setting out a new Scotland Bill, to become law before the 2015 Holyrood elections. The proposal was criticised by the British Parliament opposition parties for not proposing to implement any changes before the next general election. Scottish Constitution Minister Michael Russell criticised the white paper, calling it \"flimsy\" and stating that their proposed Referendum (Scotland) Bill, 2010, whose own white paper was to be published five days later, would be \"more substantial\". According to \"The Independent\", the Calman Review white paper proposals fall short of what would normally be seen as requiring a referendum.\n\nThe United Kingdom Conservative-Liberal Democrat coalition government which was elected in 2010 pledged to implement the findings of the Calman Commission and subsequently used them as the basis for the Scotland Act 2012. In 2014 the UK government announced that in 2015 the Scottish Parliament would also be given direct access to capital funds and the ability to issue bonds.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23597180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23597180", "title": "Commodity Futures Trading Commission Act of 1974", "text": "Commodity Futures Trading Commission Act of 1974\n\nCommodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) Act of 1974 (P.L. 93-463) created the Commodity Futures Trading Commission, to replace the U.S. Department of Agriculture’s Commodity Exchange Authority, as the independent federal agency responsible for regulating the futures trading industry. The Act made extensive changes in the basic authority of Commodity Exchange Act of 1936, which itself had made extensive changes in the original Grain Futures Act of 1922. (7 U.S.C. 1 et seq.).\n\nThe H.R. 13113 legislation was passed by the 93rd U.S. Congressional session and signed into law by the 38th President of the United States Gerald Ford on October 23, 1974.\n"}
{"id": "18713246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18713246", "title": "Commonwealth Immigrants Act 1968", "text": "Commonwealth Immigrants Act 1968\n\nThe Commonwealth Immigrants Act 1968 (c. 9) was an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom.\n\nThe Act amended the Commonwealth Immigrants Act 1962, further reducing rights of citizens of the Commonwealth of Nations countries (as of 2010, comprising approximately 1.9 billion people, including New Zealand, Australia, The Republic of India, Islamic Republic of Pakistan (which included East Pakistan province), some African nations including Nigeria and many Caribbean islands) to migrate to the UK.\n\nThe 1968 Act barred the future right of entry previously enjoyed by Citizens of the United Kingdom and Colonies, to those born there or who had at least one parent or grandparent born there. It was introduced amid concerns that up to 200,000 Kenyan Asians fleeing that country's \"Africanization\" policy, would take up their right to reside in the UK. The bill went through parliament in three days, supported by the leadership of both the governing Labour and main opposition Conservative parties, though opposed by Labour backbenchers, a few Conservatives such as Iain Macleod and Michael Heseltine, and the small parliamentary Liberal Party.\n\nThe 1968 Act was superseded by the Immigration Act 1971.\n"}
{"id": "18576029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18576029", "title": "Consumer protection", "text": "Consumer protection\n\nIn regulatory jurisdictions that provide for it (comprising most or all developed countries with free market economies), consumer protection is a group of laws and organizations designed to ensure the rights of consumers as well as fair trade, competition and accurate information in the marketplace. The laws are designed to prevent the businesses that engage in fraud or specified unfair practices from gaining an advantage over competitors. They may also provide additional protection for those most vulnerable in society. Consumer protection laws are a form of government regulation that aim to protect the rights of consumers. For example, a government may require businesses to disclose detailed information about products—particularly in areas where safety or public health is an issue, such as food.\n\nConsumer protection is linked to the idea of consumer rights and to the formation of consumer organizations, which help consumers make better choices in the marketplace and get help with consumer complaints. Other organizations that promote consumer protection include government organizations and self-regulating business organizations such as consumer protection agencies and organizations, ombudsmen, the Federal Trade Commission in America and Better Business Bureaus in America and Canada, etc.\n\nA consumer is defined as someone who acquires goods or services for direct use or ownership rather than for resale or use in production and manufacturing.\n\nConsumer interests can also be protected by promoting competition in the markets which directly and indirectly serve consumers, consistent with economic efficiency, but this topic is treated in competition law. Consumer protection can also be asserted via non-government organizations and individuals as consumer activism.\n\nConsumer protection law or consumer law is considered as an area of law that regulates private law relationships between individual consumers and the businesses that sell those goods and services. Consumer protection covers a wide range of topics, including but not necessarily limited to product liability, privacy rights, unfair business practices, fraud, misrepresentation, and other consumer/business interactions. It's a way of preventing frauds and scams from service and sales contracts, eligible fraud, bill collector regulation, pricing, utility turnoffs, consolidation, personal loans that may lead to bankruptcy.\n\nThe following lists consumer legislation at the nation-state level. In the EU member states Germany and the United Kingdom there is also the applicability of law at the EU level to be considered; this applies on the basis of subsidiarity.\n\nIn Australia, the corresponding agency is the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission or the individual State Consumer Affairs agencies. The Australian Securities and Investments Commission has responsibility for consumer protection regulation of financial services and products. However, in practice, it does so through privately run EDR schemes such as the Financial Ombudsman Service (Australia).\n\nThe Nigerian government has a duty to protect its people from any form of harm to human health through the use and purchase of items to meet daily needs. In light of this, the Nigerian Consumer Protection Council (CPC), whose aim is to protect and enhance consumers' interest through information, education, and enforcement of the rights of consumers was established by an Act of Parliament to promote and protect the interest of consumers over all products and services. In a nutshell, it is empowered to Eliminate hazardous & substandard goods from the market. Provide speedy redress to consumer complaints and petition arisen from fraud, unfair practice and exploitation of consumer.\n\nGermany, as a member state of the European Union, is bound by the consumer protection directives of the European Union; residents may be directly bound by EU regulations.\nA minister of the federal cabinet is responsible for consumer rights and protection (\"Verbraucherschutzminister\"). In the current cabinet of Angela Merkel, this is Daniel Lindigrin.\n\nWhen issuing public warnings about products and services, the issuing authority has to take into account that this affects the supplier's constitutionally protected economic liberty, see Bundesverwaltungsgericht (Federal Administrative Court) Case 3 C 34.84, 71 BVerwGE 183).\n\nIn India, consumer protection is specified in The Consumer Protection Act, 1986. Under this law, Separate Consumer Dispute Redress Forums have been set up throughout India in each and every district in which a consumer can file his complaint on a simple paper with nominal court fees and his complaint will be decided by the Presiding Officer of the District Level. The complaint can be filed by both the consumer of a goods as well as of the services. An appeal could be filed to the State Consumer Disputes Redress Commissions and after that to the National Consumer Disputes Redressal Commission (NCDRC). The procedures in these tribunals are relatively less formal and more people friendly and they also take less time to decide upon a consumer dispute when compared to the years long time taken by the traditional Indian judiciary. In recent years, many effective judgment have been passed by some state and National Consumer Forums.\n\nIndian Contract Act, 1872 lays down the conditions in which promises made by parties to a contract will be legally binding on each other. It also lays down the remedies available to aggregate party if the other party fails to honor his promise.\n\nThe Sale of Goods Act of 1930 act provides some safeguards to buyers of goods if goods purchased do not fulfill the express or implied conditions and warranties.\n\nThe Agriculture Produce Act of 1937 act provides grade standards for agricultural commodities and live stock products.It specifies the conditions which govern the use of standards and lays down the procedure for grading, marking and packaging of agricultural produce.The quality mark provided under the act is known as AGMARK-Agricultural Marketing.\n\nModern Taiwanese law has been heavily influenced by European civil law systems, particularly German and Swiss law. The Civil Code in Taiwan contains five books: General Principles, Obligations, Rights over Things, Family, and Succession. The second book of the Code, the Book of Obligations, provided the basis from which consumers could bring products liability actions prior to the enactment of the CPL.\n\nThe Consumer Protection Law (CPL) in Taiwan, as promulgated on January 11, 1994, and effective on January 13, 1993, specifically protects the interests and safety of customers using the products or services provided by business operators. The Consumer Protection Commission of Executive Yuan serves as an ombudsman supervising, coordinating, reporting any unsafe products/services and periodically reviewing the legislation.\n\nAccording to the Pacific Rim Law & Policy Association and the American Chamber of Commerce, in a 1997 critical study, the law has been criticized by stating that \"although many agree that the intent of the CPL is fair, the CPL's various problems, such as ambiguous terminology, favoritism towards consumer protection groups, and the compensation liability defense, must be addressed before the CPL becomes a truly effective piece of legislation that will protect consumers\"\n\nThe United Kingdom, as it is still a member state of the European Union, is bound by the consumer protection directives of the European Union; residents may be directly bound by EU regulations. Specifics of the division of labour between the EU and the UK are detailed here. Domestic (UK) laws originated within the ambit of contract and tort but, with the influence of EU law, it is emerging as an independent area of law. In many circumstances, where domestic law is in question, the matter judicially treated as tort, contract, restitution or even criminal law.\n\nConsumer Protection issues are dealt with when complaints are made to the Director-General of Fair Trade. The Office of Fair Trading will then investigate, impose an injunction or take the matter to litigation. However, consumers cannot directly complain to the OFT. Complaints need to be made to the Citizens Advice Consumer Service (which has taken over from Consumer Direct) who will provide legal advice to complainants, or re-direct the individual complaint to Trading Standards for investigation. Due to restrictions within the Enterprise Act 2002, individual complainants are unable to be told whether their case is being investigated or not. In very rare cases, Consumer Direct may direct a very large number of complaints to the OFT to be considered as a systemic complaint. The OFT can also be engaged by consumer groups e.g. The Consumers Association or the statutory consumer protection body – Consumer Focus – via a super complaint. The OFT rarely prosecute companies, however, preferring a light touch regulation approach. Consumer complaints against companies are not published, but investigation work, undertakings, and enforcement are located at. Many of the consumer protection laws e.g. Distance Selling Regulations 2000 or Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999 () are actually UK implementations of EU directives. The OFT is one of the bodies responsible for enforcing these rules. It leads to a problem that these examples of legislation are clearly designed to deal with individual complaints but the OFT will only deal with systemic complaints and will ignore individual complainants redirecting them back to Consumer Direct.\n\nThe Office of Fair Trading also acts as the UK's official consumer and competition watchdog, with a remit to make markets work well for consumers, and at a local, municipal level by Trading Standards departments. General consumer advice can be obtained from the Citizens Advice Consumer Service or via a local branch of the Citizen's Advice Bureau.\n\nOn the 3rd September, Conservative MEP Daniel Dalton proposed plans to the European Parliament's Internal Market and Consumer Protection Committee to introduce an App that would provide a single source of advice and dispute resolution. \n\nIn the United States a variety of laws at both the federal and state levels regulate consumer affairs. Among them are the federal Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, the Fair Credit Reporting Act, Truth in Lending Act, Fair Credit Billing Act, and the Gramm–Leach–Bliley Act. Federal consumer protection laws are mainly enforced by the Federal Trade Commission, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau, the Food and Drug Administration, and the U.S. Department of Justice.\n\nAt the state level, many states have adopted the Uniform Deceptive Trade Practices Act including, but not limited to, Delaware, Illinois, Maine, and Nebraska. The deceptive trade practices prohibited by the Uniform Act can be roughly subdivided into conduct involving either a) unfair or fraudulent business practice and b) untrue or misleading advertising. The Uniform Act contains a private remedy with attorneys fees for prevailing parties where the losing party \"willfully engaged in the trade practice knowing it to be deceptive\". Uniform Act §3(b).\nMissouri has a similar statute called the Merchandising Practices Act. This statute allows local prosecutors or the Attorney General to press charges against people who knowingly use deceptive business practices in a consumer transaction and authorizes consumers to hire a private attorney to bring an action seeking their actual damages, punitive damages, and attorney's fees.\n\nAlso, the majority of states have a Department of Consumer Affairs devoted to regulating certain industries and protecting consumers who use goods and services from those industries. For example, in California, the California Department of Consumer Affairs regulates about 2.3 million professionals in over 230 different professions, through its forty regulatory entities. In addition, California encourages its consumers to act as private attorneys general through the liberal provisions of its Consumers Legal Remedies Act.\n\nCalifornia has the strongest consumer protection laws of any US state, partly because of rigorous advocacy and lobbying by groups such as Utility Consumers' Action Network, Consumer Federation of California, and Privacy Rights Clearinghouse. For example, California provides for \"cooling off\" periods giving consumers the right to cancel contracts within a certain time period for several specified types of transactions, such as home secured transactions, and warranty and repair services contracts. \n\nOther states have been the leaders in specific aspects of consumer protection. For example, Florida, Delaware, and Minnesota have legislated requirements that contracts be written at reasonable readability levels as a large proportion of contracts cannot be understood by most consumers who sign them.\n\n47 national constitutions currently in force include some sort of consumer right. The Constitute project lists the text of each of these provisions Kenya's provision, for example, suggests that citizens have the right to\n\nThe Kenyan rule also stipulates that citizens would have legal recourse in the case of injury or product defects.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1064565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1064565", "title": "Copyright law of Greece", "text": "Copyright law of Greece\n\nThe copyright laws in Greece are part of the frame of laws which are constantly being adapted to the guidelines of the European Union.\n\nThe enforcement of the copyright laws varies from case to case. Greece has attracted attention because of its extended copyright infringement of software and music. The Greek government has tried to impose countermeasures such as the prosecution of those who produce or consume unauthorized material, with questionable results.\n\n"}
{"id": "607133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=607133", "title": "Copyright misuse", "text": "Copyright misuse\n\nCopyright misuse is an equitable defense against copyright infringement in the United States allowing copyright infringers to avoid infringement liability if the copyright holder has engaged in abusive or improper conduct in exploiting or enforcing the copyright. Copyright misuse is comparable to, and draws from precedents under, the older doctrine of patent misuse, which dates back to the early years of the 20th century and derives from the more general equity doctrine of \"unclean hands\", which bars a party from obtaining equitable relief (such as an injunction) against another when the party has acted improperly (though not necessarily illegally).\n\nThe doctrine forbids the copyright owner from attempting to extend the effect or operation of copyright beyond the scope of the statutory right (for example, by engaging in restrictive licensing practices that are contrary to public policy, particularly the public policy of copyright law). Courts do not permit a copyright owner that has engaged in misuse to enforce its copyright—whether by securing an injunction against infringers or collecting damages for infringement, until the misuse has been \"purged\"—that is, the improper practice has been abandoned and its effects have fully dissipated.\n\nCopyright misuse is not a statutory defense set forth in the federal Copyright Act but is instead founded in federal case law derived from the patent misuse doctrine. One of the earliest copyright misuse precedents is a case in the Minnesota Federal District Court, \"M. Witmark & Sons v. Jensen\". The United States Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit subsequently endorsed the copyright misuse doctrine in \"Lasercomb America, Inc. v. Reynolds\", Other appellate decisions in the area include \"Video Pipeline, Inc. v. Buena Vista Home Entertainment\" and \"Assessment Technologies v. WIREdata\".\n\nImproper behavior that may lead to a finding of copyright misuse includes (but is not limited to) anti-competitive activity. One notable exception is the Federal Circuit's (patent misuse) decision in \"Princo Corporation vs. International Trade Commission\". In that case, Princo had licensed patents from Philips to use data encoding technology, but eventually stopped paying for use of the patent. When Philips sued, Princo argued that it should not be liable for the infringement because Philips had made an agreement with Sony not to license a new patent that would allow for a different way of encoding data, which Princo claimed violated the antitrust laws. The court disagreed, finding Princo liable for infringement because the antitrust violation was seen as irrelevant to the original patent. \n\nRestraints that hinder the promotion of the progress of human knowledge may be held copyright misuse, as in the \"Lasercomb\" case, which involved a restriction against development of improved computer code that might compete against the licensed code. Similar principles might condemn a restriction against exercise of reverse engineering, fair use, or conduct protected under the First Amendment.\n\n"}
{"id": "1185431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1185431", "title": "Defalcation", "text": "Defalcation\n\nDefalcation is misappropriation of funds by a person trusted with its charge; also, the act of misappropriation, or an instance thereof. The term is more specifically used by the United States Bankruptcy Code to describe a category of acts that taint a particular debt such that it cannot be discharged in bankruptcy. The United States Supreme Court addressed the issue in 2013, holding that \"defalcation\" in the context of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code requires proof of \"a culpable state of mind… involving knowledge of, or gross recklessness in respect to, the improper nature of the relevant fiduciary behavior.\" \n\nIn accounting terminology, especially with respect to the area of audit, defalcation means a misappropriation of assets or theft of assets by employees or officers of a corporation.\n\nDefalcation occurs when a debtor commits a bad act while acting in a fiduciary capacity. The classic example of defalcation is when a trustee recklessly invests trust funds and loses the money. If the beneficiary wins a judgment against the trustee, and the trustee files for bankruptcy, the debt (the judgment) cannot be discharged in bankruptcy because the debt was the result of a defalcation.\n\nDefalcation, for example, applies when a debtor is acting in a fiduciary capacity. To constitute a defalcation, the conduct involves a degree of culpability that is greater than negligence, but the act does not need to rise to the level of a \"fraud\" under common law. Defalcation requires a showing of conscious behavior or extreme recklessness.\n\nThe term is used in legal proceedings other than bankruptcy to refer more generally to embezzlement; it is often used in the context of the title insurance business. A title agent who misuses funds intended to be used to close insured transactions is said to be involved in a defalcation. Many title insurers have their own \"defalcation units\".\n\nThe term is from Latin, and is analyzed as \"de-\" \"off\" + \"falx\" \"sickle\" + \"-tion\" \"act of\", hence literally \"cutting off with a sickle\". There is also a verb form, \"defalcate\".\n"}
{"id": "54630740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54630740", "title": "Edward Brown (barrister)", "text": "Edward Brown (barrister)\n\nEdward Francis Trevenen Brown QC (born January 1958) is an English barrister who specialises in international criminal law and human rights. He is one of the most senior prosecutors at the Old Bailey where he also served as a Recorder, as well as sitting as a part-time circuit judge at Southwark Crown Court. Brown has written extensively on gang violence and joint enterprise murder in \"The Times\".\n\nBrown was called to the Bar in 1983. He currently practises at QEB Hollis Whiteman in London, chambers of Mark Ellison QC, where he heads specialist criminal department. After beginning his career both prosecuting and defending, Brown specialised in prosecution work from 1986, including several cases of murder, terrorism and organised crime. He took silk (i.e. appointed Queen's Counsel) in 2008. For most of his career he has practiced at the Old Bailey.\n\nIn 2000 Brown was appointed Junior Treasury Counsel at the Old Bailey, where he served as a Recorder (judge) from 2001. In 2007 he was appointed Senior Treasury Counsel, serving in that capacity until 2014. In 2015 Brown became a Bencher of Gray’s Inn.\n\nIn 2014 Brown became a member of Detention Review Board of United Nations Interim Administration Mission in Kosovo.\n\nBrown has represented the prosecution, corporate entities and individuals in allegations of corporate crime, corruption, corporate manslaughter and tax investigations. In 2009 Brown acted for Labour Party politicians in Cash for Peerages police inquiry - no charges against MP's were brought. In 2016 Brown was appointed as leading Counsel to represent the CPS at the Independent Inquiry into Child Sexual Abuse.\n\n\nBrown was instructed by the CPS in many of the highest profile British criminal cases including prosecution of Kevin Hutchinson-Foster who passed the BBM Bruni Model 92 handgun to Mark Duggan shortly before the minicab in which Duggan was travelling was stopped by police in Ferry Lane in Tottenham Hale.\n\nBrown was also instructed in the inquest of Duggan's death. He prosecuted members of the GAS (Guns And Shanks) gang from Brixton who were charged with joint enterprise murder in a case of \"vicious, shocking and sickening case of gang violence outside a school at a time when pupils and staff were gathering at the start of a school day\", as well as Ben Hitchcock's murderers, whose actions were described as \"the direct result of what was a pitched battle between rival gangs.\" Co-defendant Royston Thomas was found not guilty after police detectives relaunched an investigation into the stabbing of 16-year-old Ben Hitchcock.\nHe prosecuted David Jeffs known as the \"Mayfair socialite murder\", child killer Ben Butler, hitman Jamie Marsh-Smith who was found guilty of murdering a gang boss, and MI5 official Katharine Gun in widely publicised case involving MI5 and GCHQ.\n\nIn February 2016, Brown was interviewed by The Lawyer magazine to analyse R v Jogee that reversed previous case law on joint enterprise murder, after a recent Supreme Court ruling indicating that it was not right that a person could be convicted of murder and subsequently sentenced to life imprisonment if they foresaw the murder could take place but did not deliver the fatal blow. Brown commented: \"It has always been the case that a person who intentionally assists another in a joint crime will be as guilty as the person who physically commits that crime. After the Chan Wing-Siu ruling in 1985, juries have since been directed that if a secondary party foresaw that the principal party might use a knife, for example, with intent to cause harm or murder, then they are guilty of murder as well.\"\nBrown also commented that the judgment in R v Jogee and Ruddock v The Queen will have a significant effect on the prosecution of multi-handed crime, and in particular cases of multi-handed serious violence that sometimes results in death. It will also result in many applications for leave to appeal against conviction out of time.\n\nOn 18 September 2012, Brown started prosecuting Kevin Hutchinson-Foster whose trial took place in Snaresbrook Crown Court. Duggan was shot dead while police officers were trying to arrest him in Tottenham, north London last August. The jury heard that the handgun allegedly supplied by Hutchinson-Foster was found near the spot where Duggan was shot. Giving evidence, Hutchinson-Foster who was accused of passing the gun to Mark Duggan, claimed Duggan already had a gun. Hutchinson-Foster is accused of \"selling or transferring\" a BBM Bruni Model 92 handgun to Duggan contrary to the Firearms Act 1968, between 28 July and 5 August 2011. Hutchinson-Foster was found guilty of suppying gun to Duggan. Chief Supt Dean Haydon, from the Metropolitan Police's Trident Serious Crime Command, said: \n\nIn 2011 Brown prosecuted two south London gangs known as Shanks and Guns, or SG, and the Black Mafia, also known as the Sydenham Boys. Gang members were found guilty of murder of Nicholas \"Nick\" Pearton who was thought to be their friend. In May 2011 Pearton, 17 year old schoolboy, was stabbed by gangsters being caught up in a clash between two gangs in Home Park, Sydenham. Pearton was attacked when he went to the park to help gangsters who he thought were his friends, after receiving a call from them. The jury at the Old Bailey saw CCTV footage from the Kentucky Fried Chicken shop of an injured Nicholas running in and collapsing.\nProsecuting, Brown commented that Pearton was \"the only white-skinned male participant in the incident\" when he was chased and eventually killed by a pack of \"animals.\" The court heard that hours earlier, Pearton's so-called friend, a member of Black Mafia gang known as the Sydenham Boys, had been involved in a row at school which led to a confrontation in the park between the two gangs. Brown told the jury:\nOnly one out of ten gangsters was identified as stabbing Pearton. The others claimed they had been wrongly convicted of murder and manslaughter. Belgian national Edward Conteh was convicted of Pearton's murder and deported after his conviction under joint enterprise law, whilst not being present at the scene. But Judge Anthony Morris said they had all taken part in \"a terrifying example of gang violence\". Morris also said not enough was being done to raise awareness of the consequences of gang violence. When the police commented that they already had a programme, Judge Morris said: \n\nIn 2016 Brown started prosecuting Hamad Mohammad and three of his associates who were accused of joint enterprise murder. Ionut Lazar, 28, was found shot dead in Shepherd’s Bush on 22 October 2016 two days after arriving in the UK from Romania. Lazar, 28, was killed after “a number of men” forced their way into a home in Shepherd's Bush, west London Police were called to Askew Road, W11 on 22 October at 2.40am to reports of an unconscious male at a residential property in Askew Road. Lazar was found suffering from what was initially thought to be a stab wound to the chest. He died at the scene a short while later. A post-mortem examination took place October 24 at Fulham Mortuary and established the cause of death as a bullet wound to the chest.\nIn January 2017 Brown prosecuted Gintare Suminaite, 29-year-old mother from Crawley, West Sussex, who was charged with murder of her newborn child.\nProsecuting, Brown told the jury that the child was the product of Suminaite's secret affair with a fellow Lithuanian. Suminaite kept her pregnancy hidden from authorities and her long-term partner, with whom she already had a young child. She attended a hearing at Crawley magistrates' court but did not enter a plea to the murder charge.\nSuminaite told police she \"most likely\" intended to kill her baby, but said she did not know why. At the trial held at the Old Bailey she pleaded guilty to a charge of infanticide.\nThe court heard that on April 5, 2016, Suminaite left work early saying she had ‘big problems’ and gave birth in the bathroom at home, with her partner in another room. Her partner found Suminaite lying naked in the bathroom surrounded by blood and a baby bath full of what appeared to be clothes.\nJurors at the Old Bailey heard that Suminaite was bleeding and pale when found by her boyfriend who eventually called an ambulance after she confessed what had happened. The court heard that the child lay undiscovered as medics initially did not spot the body in the baby bath and the couple did not mention it. Suminaite was subsequently treated in hospital for significant blood loss and injury from childbirth. Following her arrest, Suminaite said she strangled her baby with her lingerie, but did not know why. She described giving birth quickly and easily and said the baby was moving and trying to cry. Suminaite told the jury she cut the umbilical cord with a razor then passed out in the bath. When she came to pick the baby up, she said the baby was not moving and she tied a pair of her knickers around her neck and put her in the baby bath. She said she did not know why she did it as she had no mental problems. Emergency services were called to her home on Aldwick Road in Bognor. At the hearing, Mr Justice Nicol said that Suminaite's circumstances were \"tragic in themselves\". Sentencing Suminaite, he said: Suminaite followed proceedings with the aid of a translator as English was not her first language. In his closing speech Brown acknowledged that Suminaite been emotionally and socially isolated during her life in England. He told the court:\n\nSuminaite was sentenced to a 24-month community order with a rehabilitation requirement order. At the completion of the trial Mr Justice Nicol said: \n\nIn August 2017, Brown prosecuted male escort Jason Marshall who murdered his client Peter Fasoli who he met in December 2012 through gay social networking site called Badoo, where he advertised his services under his \"working\" name Gabriel. Marshall was arrested after the victim's relative found hidden footage of killing on his laptop. Peter Fasoli, a 58-year-old IT expert, from Northolt was terrorised and murdered in 2013 at his own house by Marshall who posed as a policeman. On the opening day of his trial at the Old Bailey, Marshall was described as a \"calculating and determined\" killer. Prosecuting, Mr Brown warned jurors that they would be asked to view the video, which showed the actual killing itself. The court heard that during sexual roleplay, Marshall stripped the victim and arrested him for “being a spy” and hacking into a government laptop, the court heard. Fasoli was threatened with a knife and forced to hand over his cash card pin numbers. The footage shower Marshall, 28, calmly standing over the body of his client Peter Fasoli and signing \"in the name of the father, the son and the Holy Ghost\" in Latin, after killing him. Marshall subsequently set fire to Fasoli's home in attempt to make Fasoli's death look like an accident.\n\nBut two years later when Fasoli's nephew was sorting through his belongings, he was horrified to discover a computer file containing CCTV footage of the entire event.\nThe court heard how Marshall, who denied murder, first got in contact with Peter Fasoli in December 2012 through gay social networking site called Badoo, inviting to set up a treesome and inventing the persona of a policeman.\nProsecuting, Mr Brown told jurors:\n\nThe Old Baily heard that Marshall arrived at the Fasoli's home at around 7pm on 6 January 2012, pretending to be a police officer kitted out with a police utility belt, handcuffs and a pistol holster.\nDuring sexual role play, Marshall stripped the victim and arrested him for “being a spy” and hacking into a Government laptop, the court heard.\nAfter Marshall fled the scene, he sent a “calculated and cynical” message to Fasoli on the Badoo chat line apologising for not seeing him the night before. He withdrew £750 in cash from the Fasoli's bank account and used his card to buy a flight to Rome. In February 2016 Marshal was arrested in Italy and extradited to United Kingdom to face trial for murder of Fasoli he committed four years ago. A Metropolitan Police spokesman commented: \nThe court has heard that Fasoli accidentally filmed his own bondage sex session murder at the hands of Jason Marshall dressed as policeman. Jurors at the Old Bailey watched footage of Fasoli begging for his life as he was attacked by fantasist Marshall while classical music played in the background. Camera footage showed Fasioli becoming visibly distressed as he was gagged and bound on his bed. He was threatened with a large hunting knife and forced to hand over his cash card pin numbers, the court heard. Prosecuting, Brown told the jury: \n\nThe court heard that during psychological evaluation Marshall told the psychiatrists that he is an incarnation of Archangel Gabriel and stated “You can’t judge me, only God can judge me.” In September 2017 Jason Marshall was imprisoned for 39 years for the murder of Peter Fasoli.\nHe has previously been convicted in the UK of impersonating MI5 and transport police officials while carrying out searches and of issuing fines on the Tube.\n\nIn 2011 Brown became a trustee of the Growing Against Violence, charity that delivers programmes in schools that address gang exploitation and seeks to educate young people and draw them away from gangs and violence. Brown also gave lectures to young south London gang members on law of joint enterprise and on the dangers of gang violence.\n\nIn September 2015 Brown, in his capacity of Senior Tresury Counsel, appeared on Guity by Association, BBC One documentary that examines law of joint enterprise. The programme raised questions about how the courts deal with gang violence, what constitutes a murder and whether young people are being sentenced for crimes they did not commit. Documentary follows Alex and his family as he is charged under the joint enterprise law and examines the increasing controversy surrounding the details of this law which some believe is creating criminals of the innocent.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "442140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=442140", "title": "Edward Felten", "text": "Edward Felten\n\nEdward William Felten (born March 25, 1963) is a professor of computer science and public affairs at Princeton University. On November 4, 2010, he was named Chief Technologist for the Federal Trade Commission, a position he officially assumed January 3, 2011. On May 11, 2015, he was named the Deputy U.S. Chief Technology Officer.\n\nFelten has done a variety of computer security research, including groundbreaking work on proof-carrying authentication and work on security related to the Java programming language, but he is perhaps best known for his paper on the Secure Digital Music Initiative (SDMI) challenge.\n\nFelten attended the California Institute of Technology and graduated with a degree in Physics in 1985. He worked as a staff programmer at Caltech from 1986 to 1989 on a parallel supercomputer project at Caltech. He then enrolled as a graduate student in Computer Science at the University of Washington. He was awarded a Master of Science degree in 1991 and a Ph.D in 1993. His Ph.D. thesis was on developing an automated protocol for communication between parallel processors.\n\nIn 1993, he joined the faculty of Princeton University in the Department of Computer Science as an Assistant Professor. He was promoted to Associate Professor in 1999 and to Professor in 2003. In 2006, he joined the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs, but computer science remains his home department. In 2005, he became the Director of the Center for Information and Technology Policy at Princeton. He has served as a consultant to law firms, corporations, private foundations, and government agencies. His research involves computer security, and technology policy.\n\nHe lives in Princeton, New Jersey with his family. From 2006 to 2010, he was a member of the board of the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF). In 2007, he was inducted as a Fellow of the Association for Computing Machinery.\n\nIn November 2010, he was named Chief Technologist of the Federal Trade Commission.\n\nOn May 11, 2015, he was named Deputy U.S. Chief Technology Officer for The White House.\n\nFelten was a witness for the United States government in \"United States v. Microsoft\", where the software company was charged with committing a variety of antitrust crimes. During the trial, Microsoft's attorneys denied that it was possible to remove the Internet Explorer web browser from a Windows 98 equipped computer without significantly impairing the operation of Windows.\n\nCiting research he had undertaken with Christian Hicks and Peter Creath, two of his former students, Felten testified that it was possible to remove Internet Explorer functionality from Windows without causing any problems with the operating system. He demonstrated his team's tool in court, showing 19 ways in which it is normally possible to access the web browser from the Windows platform that his team's tool rendered inaccessible.\n\nMicrosoft argued that Felten's changes did not truly remove Internet Explorer but only made its functionality inaccessible to the end user by removing icons, shortcuts and the iexplore.exe executable file, and making changes to the system registry. This led to a debate as to what exactly constitutes the \"web browser,\" since much of the core functionality of Internet Explorer is stored in a shared dynamic-link library, accessible to any program running under Windows.\n\nMicrosoft also argued that Felten's tool did not even completely remove web-browsing capability from the system since it was still possible to access the web through other Windows executables besides iexplore.exe, such as the Windows help system.\n\nAs part of a contest in 2000, SDMI (Secure Digital Music Initiative) invited researchers and others to try to break the digital audio watermark technologies that they had devised. In a series of individual challenges, the participants were given a sample audio piece, with one of the watermarks embedded. If the participants sent back the sample with the watermark removed (and with less than an acceptable amount of signal loss, though this condition was not stated by SDMI), they would win that particular challenge.\n\nFelten was an initial participant of the contest. He chose to opt out of confidentiality agreements that would have made his team eligible for the cash prize. Despite being given very little or no information about the watermarking technologies other than the audio samples and having only three weeks to work with them, Felten and his team managed to modify the files sufficiently that SDMI's automated judging system declared the watermark removed.\n\nSDMI did not accept that Felten had successfully broken the watermark according to the rules of the contest, noting that there was a requirement for files to lose no sound quality. SDMI claimed that the automated judging result was inconclusive, as a submission which simply wiped all the sounds off the file would have successfully removed the watermark but would not meet the quality requirement.\n\nFelten's team developed a scientific paper explaining the methods used by his team in defeating the SDMI watermarks. Planning to present the paper at the Fourth International Information Hiding Workshop of 2001 in Pittsburgh, Felten was threatened with legal action by SDMI, the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA), and Verance Corporation, under the terms of the DMCA, on the argument that one of the technologies his team had broken was currently in use in the market. Felten withdrew the presentation from the workshop, reading a brief statement about the threats instead. SDMI and other copyright holders denied that they had ever threatened to sue Felten. However, SDMI appears to have threatened legal action when spokesman Matt Oppenheim warned Felten in a letter that \"any disclosure of information gained from participating in the Public Challenge...could subject you and your research team to actions under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act.\".\n\nFelten, with help from the Electronic Frontier Foundation, sued the groups, requesting a declaratory judgement ruling that their publication of the paper would be legal. The case was dismissed for a lack of standing.\n\nFelten presented his paper at the USENIX security conference in 2001. The United States Department of Justice has offered Felten and other researchers assurances that the DMCA does not threaten their work and stated that the legal threats against them were invalid.\n\nThe 2005 Sony BMG CD copy protection scandal started when security researcher Mark Russinovich revealed on October 31, 2005 that Sony's Extended Copy Protection (\"XCP\") copy protection software on the CD \"Get Right with the Man\" by Van Zant contained hidden files that could damage the operating system, install spyware and make the user's computer vulnerable to attack when the CD was played on a Microsoft Windows-based PC. Sony then released a software patch to remove XCP.\n\nOn November 15, 2005, Felten and J. Alex Halderman showed that Sony's method for removing XCP copy protection software from the computer makes it more vulnerable to attack, as it essentially installed a rootkit, in the form of an Active X control used by the uninstaller, and left it on the user's machine and set so as to allow any web page visited by the user to execute arbitrary code. Felten and Halderman described the problem in a blog post:\nThe consequences of the flaw are severe, it allows any Web page you visit to download, install, and run any code it likes on your computer. Any Web page can seize control of your computer; then it can do anything it likes. That's about as serious as a security flaw can get.\n\nOn September 13, 2006, Felten and graduate students Ariel Feldman and Alex Halderman discovered severe security flaws in a Diebold Election Systems (now Premier Election Solutions) voting machine. Their findings claimed, \"Malicious software running on a single voting machine can steal votes with little if any risk of detection. The malicious software can modify all of the records, audit logs, and counters kept by the voting machine, so that even careful forensic examination of these records will find nothing amiss.\"\n\nIn early 2008, New Jersey election officials announced that they planned to send one or more Sequoia Advantage voting machines to Ed Felten and Andrew Appel (also of Princeton University) for analysis. In March 2008, Sequoia sent an e-mail to Professor Felten asserting that allowing him to examine Sequoia voting machines would violate the license agreement between Sequoia and the county which bought them, and also that Sequoia would take legal action \"to stop [...] any non-compliant analysis, [...] publication of Sequoia software, its behavior, reports regarding same or any other infringement of our intellectual property.\"\nThis action sparked outrage among computer technology activists.\n\nAfter examining Sequoia's machines, Felten and Appel indeed discovered grave problems with the accuracy of the machines. They also demonstrated that the machines can be hacked and compromised within minutes.\n\nShortly after that, Sequoia's corporate Web site was hacked. The hack was first discovered by Ed Felten. Sequoia took its Web site down on 20 March and removed the \"intrusive content.\"\n\nIn February 2008, Felten and his students were part of the team that discovered the cold boot attack, which allows someone with physical access to a computer to bypass operating system protections and extract the contents of its memory.\n\nIn November 2010, Felten was named the first Chief Technologist of the Federal Trade Commission, for which he took a one-year leave of absence from Princeton University.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22346872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22346872", "title": "Enes Kanter", "text": "Enes Kanter\n\nEnes Kanter (born May 20, 1992) is a Turkish professional basketball player for the New York Knicks of the National Basketball Association (NBA). Standing at , he plays at the center position.\n\nKanter was born May 20, 1992, in Zürich, Switzerland, while his father, Mehmet, attained his M.D. from the University of Zurich. His father is a professor of histology at Trakya University.\n\nBefore moving to the United States, Kanter played under Serdar Apaydın's management for the Fenerbahçe youth squad between 2006 and 2008 and then, during the 2008–09 season, Kanter was a seldom-used reserve for the Fenerbahçe senior team. He played in at least nine games with the team – four in the EuroLeague and five in the Turkish Super League. Fenerbahçe and the Greek League basketball team Olympiacos both offered Kanter professional contracts, but he declined because he wanted to play high school and college basketball in the United States.\n\nIn 2009, Kanter moved to the United States, where he enrolled at Stoneridge Preparatory School in Simi Valley, California, and played for the basketball team in 2009–10. At the 2010 Nike Hoop Summit, Kanter played for the international team, recording 34 points and 13 rebounds. His point total was a record for the event, breaking Dirk Nowitzki's record set in the 1998 game. Both Rivals.com and Scout.com rated Kanter as a five-star prospect, the highest possible rating.\n\nOn November 23, 2009, Kanter verbally committed to play for the Washington Huskies. Kanter chose Washington over UCLA, USC, Indiana and UNLV. However, he re-opened his recruitment in February 2010, and on April 14, Kanter signed a National Letter of Intent to play college basketball for Kentucky.\n\nHowever, despite signing with the Kentucky Wildcats, the NCAA declared him permanently ineligible as a collegiate athlete because he received approximately $33,000 from Fenerbahçe in excess benefits. The NCAA ruled that this amount was above and beyond what was considered acceptable. On January 7, 2011, the NCAA rejected Kentucky's appeal, upholding that Kanter was permanently ineligible. Without Kanter, Kentucky still managed to reach the Final Four in the 2011 NCAA Men's Division I Basketball Tournament.\n\nKanter was drafted third overall by the Utah Jazz in the 2011 NBA draft. Upon being drafted, he said \"I'm so happy, I'm so excited. I know the Utah Jazz fans are crazy and I love them. I will bring the team toughness and post moves, rebounding, everything. I will try to do everything to make the playoffs.\" On December 9, 2011, he signed his rookie scale contract with the Jazz following the conclusion of the NBA lockout. In 2011–12, he became just the 10th Jazz rookie in franchise history to appear in every regular season game. He also recorded the most rebounds for a Jazz rookie on debut with 11 against the Los Angeles Lakers on December 27. On the season, he averaged 4.6 points and 4.2 rebounds in 66 games.\n\nIn 2012–13, Kanter improved his averages in every major statistical category, led the team in scoring three times and rebounding four times, and scored in double-figures 22 times. In 70 games (two starts), he averaged 7.2 points and 4.3 rebounds per game. On March 1, 2013, Kanter had the first 20-20 game of his career with career-highs of 23 points and 22 rebounds to lead the Jazz to a 98–68 victory over the Charlotte Bobcats. He later missed the final 10 games of the season due to a dislocated left shoulder.\n\nIn 2013–14, Kanter appeared in 80 games (37 starts), averaging 12.3 points and 7.5 rebounds per game. On March 3, 2014, he scored a then career-high 27 points in a 114–88 loss to the Milwaukee Bucks.\n\nOn December 16, 2014, Kanter scored a then career-high 29 points in a 119–111 loss to the New Orleans Pelicans.\n\nOn February 19, 2015, Kanter was traded to the Oklahoma City Thunder in a three-team deal that also involved the Detroit Pistons. Two days later, he made his debut for the Thunder, recording a double-double with 10 points and 13 rebounds in a 110–103 win over the Charlotte Hornets. On April 1, 2015, he scored a then career-high 30 points in a 135–131 loss to the Dallas Mavericks.\n\nAfter the 2014–15 season, Kanter became a restricted free agent. On July 9, 2015, he received a four-year, $70 million offer sheet from the Portland Trail Blazers. However, three days later, the Thunder exercised their right of first refusal and matched the offer sheet extended to Kanter by the Trail Blazers. On March 14, 2016, he scored a then season-high 26 points in a 128–94 win over the Portland Trail Blazers. On April 6, he recorded a career-high 33 points and 20 rebounds in a 120–115 loss to the Portland Trail Blazers, becoming the first player in Thunder history to score at least 30 points and grab 20 rebounds in a game. In Game 3 of the Thunder's first-round playoff series against the Dallas Mavericks, Kanter recorded a playoff career-high 21 points and a game-high eight rebounds in a 131–102 win, claiming a 2–1 series lead. In Game 4 of the series, Kanter helped the Thunder go up 3–1 with 28 points on 12-of-13 shooting, setting a playoff career high for the second straight game.\n\nOn November 28, 2016, Kanter recorded a season-high 27 points and 10 rebounds in a 112–103 win over the New York Knicks. On January 26, 2017, he sustained a fractured forearm after punching a chair on the Thunder's bench during their game against the Dallas Mavericks. He was subsequently ruled out for six to eight weeks. He returned to action on February 24, 2017 against the Los Angeles Lakers after missing nine games. He finished with four points on 2-for-12 shooting.\n\nOn September 25, 2017, Kanter was traded, along with Doug McDermott and a 2018 second-round pick, to the New York Knicks in exchange for Carmelo Anthony. In his debut for the Knicks in their season opener on October 19, 2017, Kanter had 10 points and seven rebounds in a 105–84 loss to his former team, the Oklahoma City Thunder. Five days later, he recorded 16 points and 19 rebounds in a 110–89 loss to the Boston Celtics. On November 29, 2017, after missing three games with back spasms, Kanter had 22 points and 14 rebounds in a 115–86 win over the Miami Heat. On December 25, 2017, he had a season-high 31 points and tied a career best with 22 rebounds in a 105–98 loss to the Philadelphia 76ers. He joined Wilt Chamberlain, Bill Russell and Bob Lanier as the only players with a 30-20 game on Christmas. On January 30, 2018, he recorded 20 points, 20 rebounds and five assists in a 111–95 win over the Brooklyn Nets. On February 6, 2018, in a 103–89 loss to the Milwaukee Bucks, Kanter recorded 19 points and 16 rebounds for his sixth consecutive double-double, marking the longest streak by any Knick since David Lee had seven straight from February 9–26, 2010. On March 6, 2018, he had 18 points and 11 rebounds in a 111–87 loss to the Portland Trail Blazers. It was Kanter's 32nd double-double of the season, a career high.\n\nOn October 19, 2018, Kanter scored 29 points in a 107–105 loss to the Nets. A day later, he recorded 17 points and 15 rebounds in a 103–101 loss to the Celtics, becoming the first Knick since Zach Randolph (2007–08) to start the season with three straight double-doubles. On November 5, he recorded 23 points and 24 rebounds in a 116–115 double-overtime loss to the Chicago Bulls. On November 11, he notched his fifth straight double-double with 16 points and 15 rebounds in a 115–89 loss to the Orlando Magic. On November 25, recorded 21 points and a career-high 26 rebounds in a 103–98 win over the Memphis Grizzlies.\n\nKanter made his debut for the Turkish national basketball team at the 2008 FIBA Europe Under-16 Championship in Italy. He dominated throughout the tournament, averaging 22.9 points, 16.5 rebounds and 1.5 blocks in 34.6 minutes per game. However, Jonas Valančiūnas was chosen as the MVP after he averaged 14.3 points, 11.1 rebounds and 2.3 blocks in 23.5 minutes. Kanter went on to earn MVP honors at the 2009 FIBA Europe Under-18 Championship after averaging 18.6 points and 16.4 rebounds while leading Turkey's junior national team to the bronze medal. He declined to play for the senior national team at the 2010 FIBA World Championship which was being held in Turkey as the team went on to win the silver medal. His father claimed he did this in order not to miss the first month of classes at Kentucky.\n\nKanter played with the Turkish senior team for the first time at the 2011 EuroBasket. He appeared in eight games and averaged 9.6 points and 3.9 rebounds per game. Kanter was left off the team's roster for EuroBasket 2015. Kanter alleged that the omission was due to his relationship with Fethullah Gülen and his support of the Gülen movement while coach Ergin Ataman said that Kanter was excluded because \"he did not apologize to teammates for past incidents.\"\n\nKanter was born in Switzerland to Turkish parents who later returned to their homeland. \n\nKanter's younger brother, Kerem, played for the University of Wisconsin–Green Bay from 2014 to 2017. After graduating from UW–Green Bay in 2017, he transferred to Xavier University under the NCAA's graduate transfer rule.\n\nSince immigrating to the United States, Kanter has become a supporter of the Hizmet Movement of Fethullah Gülen, a \"persona non grata\" in Turkey. After the failed 2016 \"coup d'état\" attempt, Kanter heavily criticised Turkish president Recep Tayyip Erdoğan on Twitter, leading to the cancellation of his account in Turkey. Soon after the coup attempt in July, his father and his family publicly disowned him due to his political views and his support for Gülen, imploring him to change his surname, on August 8. Kanter stated that he loves Gülen \"more than his family\", informally changing his name to Enes Gülen. Nevertheless, his father was still dismissed from his university position a few weeks later, via the government decree numbered 272 on September 1, as part of 2016–17 Turkish purges.\n\nOn May 20, 2017, Kanter's passport was cancelled by the Turkish embassy, purportedly due to his political views. Due to this, he was temporarily stranded in Romania, but later allowed to fly to London. Six days after the cancellation of his passport, the Turkish government issued an arrest warrant for Kanter, accusing him of being a member of a \"terror group\". Turkey said that charged citizens who fail come to Turkey during September 2017 face revocation of citizenship; in September 2017, Kanter described himself as stateless. According to \"Sports Illustrated\", \"Although Kanter might dismiss the Turkish arrest warrant as toothless, he faces the more impactful problem of being a man without a country.\" It was revealed on December 20, 2017, that Turkish prosecutors were seeking more than four years in prison for Kanter, who would be tried in absentia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28442598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28442598", "title": "Engineering law", "text": "Engineering law\n\nEngineering law (or law in engineering) is the empirical study of the application of laws and legal strategy in engineering. Applied law aims to explain how law interacts with industry. The current school of thought within the academic community of lawyers and engineers is the pragmatic paradigm. Commonly, professionals have a Bachelors in Engineering and a Bachelors in Law, and increasingly commonly a Masters of Business Administration. Pragmatic application of laws means the empirical study of how a corporate legal framework should be adopted.\n\nThe requirements from the perspective of the Washington Accord are for engineering graduates to attain the following knowledge and skill: \n'WA6: Apply reasoning informed by contextual knowledge to assess societal, health, safety, legal and cultural issues and the consequent responsibilities relevant to professional engineering practice and solutions to complex engineering problems.'\n\nKey topic areas for engineering law are: \nPatent Law, which are to help people do patent on any goods.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12163814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12163814", "title": "Enrollment Act", "text": "Enrollment Act\n\nThe Enrollment Act, , enacted March 3, 1863, also known as the Civil War Military Draft Act, was legislation passed by the United States Congress during the American Civil War to provide fresh manpower for the Union Army. A form of conscription, the controversial act required the enrollment of every male citizen and those immigrants who had filed for citizenship between ages twenty and forty-five. Federal agents established a quota of new troops due from each congressional district. In some cities, particularly New York City, enforcement of the act sparked civil unrest as the war dragged on, leading to the New York City draft riots on July 13–16. It replaced the previous Militia Act of 1862.\n\nThe Provost Marshal General James Barnet Fry administered the national implementation of the Enrollment Act and answered directly to Secretary of War Edwin Stanton. Beneath Provost Marshal General Fry were the State Acting Assistant Provost Marshal Generals. The State Provost Marshal Generals were not authorized by the Enrollment Act, but were appointed personally by James Fry to attend to matters in each individual state. New York and Pennsylvania were the only states that had more than one State Acting Assistant Marshal general; New York had three and Pennsylvania had two. Each state was divided along district lines with each district under the jurisdiction of an enrollment board.\n\nThe enrollment boards were headed by a district provost marshal and also included a surgeon and a commissioner. Each enrollment board employed clerks, deputies, and special agents as needed. The enrollment boards divided themselves into sub-districts along ward (in cities) and township (in rural areas) lines. In each sub-district a census was conducted by an enrollment officer to document every man eligible for the draft in the sub-district.\n\nThe policies of substitution and commutation were controversial practices that allowed drafted citizens to opt out of service by either furnishing a suitable substitute to take the place of the draftee or paying $300. Both provisions were created with the intention of softening the effect of the draft on pacifists, the antidraft movement, and the propertied classes. The result however was general public resentment of both policies. The two practices were major points of contention among the general public and led directly to the slogan \"rich man's war, poor man's fight.\"\n\nThe policy of substitutions was continued throughout the war. The problem with substitution was that it provided substitutes with powerful incentives to desert soon after enlisting. Career \"jumpers\" made a living off of enlisting as a substitute, collecting their compensation, deserting before their units were dispatched to the front, and repeating the process. The problem was well known to the military commanders who regularly saw the same recruits repeatedly. In addition, troops furnished by substitution were considered to be of an inferior quality in comparison to regulars and volunteers.\n\nCommutation (paying $300 to escape the draft) was created in an effort to keep substitution prices low. If commutation were not instated, the price of a substitute would have quickly soared past $300. Also, commutation was intended to raise money for the war effort. While commutation raised war funds, it was often a criticism of the draft that it was better at raising money than troops. The rationalization for commutation was that unwilling troops were ineffective so the government might as well extract funds from the unwilling if it got poor service. Despite the good intentions behind commutation, it was one of the most hated policies of the war.\n\nCongress passed an amendment to the Enrollment Act in 1864. Section 5 limited the length of an exemption from the draft by payment of a commutation fee to one year. Then, those drafted were required to serve or to furnish substitutes.\n\nCongress passed another amendment to the Enrollment Act on March 3, 1865; this is sometimes referred to itself as the Enrollment Act of 1865. Section 21 of the Act () imposed denationalization (loss of citizenship) as a penalty for draft evasion or desertion. Justice John Marshall Harlan II's dissent in \"Afroyim v. Rusk\" mentioned the Enrollment Act of 1865 as an example of a law in which citizenship could be revoked without a person's consent and that the Congress then regarded it as constitutional.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24890665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24890665", "title": "Environmental Law (journal)", "text": "Environmental Law (journal)\n\nEnvironmental Law is a law review focused on environmental and natural resources law published by students at Lewis & Clark Law School in Portland, Oregon. Founded in 1969, it is the nation's oldest law review covering natural resources and environmental law. The journal is recognized as a national leader in its field and has featured articles by practitioners, academics, legislators, and justices of the United States Supreme Court.\n\n\"Environmental Law\" publishes four issues each year and contains articles, essays, book reviews by lawyers and academics, and student-written notes and comments. Topics of discussion range from in-depth analysis of recent cases to more abstract discussions of the latest pollution prevention theories. The journal also publishes a \"Ninth Circuit Review\" on an annual basis as well as a \"letters to the editor\" section entitled \"Clear the Air\". \"Environmental Law\" is edited entirely by students.\n\nThe \"Ninth Circuit Review\" surveys recent decisions from the Ninth Circuit involving federal environmental statutes, Native American rights, common law environmental protections, procedural aspects of citizen suits, and all other topics exploring environmental issues. \"Clear the Air\" provides a forum for critics and skeptics to respond to articles published in the journal. The quick publication schedule for these letters enables researchers and practitioners to solicit answers and information from subscribers.\n\nProfessor Scott Crespi ranked \"Environmental Law\" as the third most influential environmental law review in the United States, behind Boalt’s \"Ecology Law Quarterly\" and the \"Harvard Environmental Law Review\".\n\nThe journal is printed on unbleached, 100% recycled post-consumer paper with soy ink.\n\nEstablished in 1969 by Dean Harold Wren and Professor Bill Williamson, \"Environmental Law\" was Lewis & Clark Law School’s first law review. The journal was launched amid the growing national awareness of environmental issues and was a catalyst behind the law school’s environmental and natural resources program, which is commonly ranked as the best in the nation.\n\nThroughout the mid-1960s and 1970s, the United States Congress enacted a series of significant environmental laws, including the Wilderness Act, National Environmental Policy Act, Clean Air Act, Clean Water Act, and Endangered Species Act. During this time, President Richard Nixon acknowledged the establishment of the nation's first law review dedicated to environmental law by writing a letter to the journal to thank Lewis & Clark Law School for its participation in the national movement. \"Environmental Law\", President Nixon stated, provided \"fresh hope\" for answering \"the great question\" of the Seventies. The letter was republished on the first page of the first volume of \"Environmental Law\" and followed by articles by Senator Edmund S. Muskie and Supreme Court Justice William O. Douglas.\n\nMembers are selected either by virtue of their grades during their first year of law school or by completing an anonymous writing competition, which is held during the summer months. The general membership of the journal determines the number of applicants that may be admitted. Prospective students are required to have a minimum grade point average.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22944626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22944626", "title": "Everything which is not forbidden is allowed", "text": "Everything which is not forbidden is allowed\n\n\"Everything which is not forbidden is allowed\" is a constitutional principle of English law—an essential freedom of the ordinary citizen or subject. The converse principle—\"everything which is not allowed is forbidden\"—used to apply to public authorities, whose actions were limited to the powers explicitly granted to them by law. The restrictions on local authorities were lifted by the Localism Act 2011 which granted a \"general power of competence\" to local authorities.\n\nIn \"The Once and Future King\", author T. H. White proposed the opposite as the rule of totalitarianism: \"Everything which is not forbidden is compulsory.\" This quote has been suggested as a principle of physics.\n\nThe claim that “everything which is not fobidden is allowed” is a principle only of English law does not stand the test of reality. In fact, it is a common principle of liberal democracies. In Germany, it has constitutional rank under Art. 2(1) of the GG which protects the general freedom to act (Allgemeine Handlungsfreiheit), as demonstrated e.g. by the judgment of the Bundesverfassungsgericht known as “Reiten im Walde” (BVerfGE 80, 137).\n\n"}
{"id": "22692617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22692617", "title": "Ex injuria jus non oritur", "text": "Ex injuria jus non oritur\n\nEx injuria jus non oritur (Latin for \"law (or right) does not arise from injustice\") is a principle of international law. The phrase implies that \"unjust acts cannot create law\". Its rival principle is \"ex factis jus oritur\", in which the existence of facts creates law.\n\n"}
{"id": "24585558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24585558", "title": "Health Care Compliance Association", "text": "Health Care Compliance Association\n\nThe Health Care Compliance Association (HCCA) is a nonprofit, individual membership association which provides resources for ethics and compliance professionals in the United States. It serves over 10,000 members through publications, education programs, conferences and professional networking including an online social network, which has over 15,000 registered users. HCCA also helps professionals become certified in health care compliance.\n\nThe HCCA started as a meeting at the 1996 annual Medical Group Management Association. Attendees included Roy Snell, then the compliance officer for the University of Wisconsin and now CEO of the HCCA, Brent Saunders of Thomas Jefferson University and Edward G. Longazel from the University of Pennsylvania. \nAt HCCA’s first annual meeting, held in September 1997 in Los Angeles, CA, many members asked for more local networking opportunities. It was decided at that meeting that HCCA would establish ten HCCA Regions, based on the Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services regions. From two members in a Minneapolis Chinese restaurant in 1996, grew to 2000 members three years later and today serves over 15,000 compliance professionals, including members of its sister association, the Society of Corporate Compliance and Ethics (SCCE). The HCCA has over 10,000 members alone.\n\nThe HCCA offers publications and live training to its members. Members of the HCCA have access to a repository of over 4,000 electronic documents including white papers and government memorandum. These resources cover the range of challenges faced by health care compliance professionals including changing regulatory requirements from HIPAA and the OIG, as well as managing a program designed to meet the Organizational Sentencing Guidelines definition of an effective compliance program. HCCA has partnered with the OIG in issuing Government-industry roundtable reports to combat fraud and abuse and to drive for quality in long term care. In the past, Daniel Levinson, inspector general of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, has spoken at HCCA Compliance Institutes.\n\nIn 1998, the HCCA set out to develop a certification program for healthcare compliance professionals. After preliminary work by the HCCA Board of Directors and Education Committee, HCCA established the Compliance Certification Board (CCB) in 1999 to complete the process of developing an examination and assume responsibility for managing the certification program. \n\nThe independent CCB is governed by a Board of Directors appointed by the HCCA Board. The mission of the CCB is to develop criteria for the determination of competence in the practice of health care compliance at a variety of levels and to recognize individuals meeting these criteria. In pursuit of this mission, CCB utilizes four basic committees: Exam Development, Continuing Education, Admissions, and Ethics. Committee members are appointed by the CCB Board of Directors from among individuals Certified in Healthcare Compliance (CHC) and leaders in the field.\n\nThe HCCA has certification in 7 categories of healthcare compliance: CHC (Certified in Healthcare Compliance), CHRC (Certified in Healthcare Research Compliance), CHPC (Certified in Healthcare Privacy Compliance), CHC-F (Certified in Healthcare Compliance Fellowship), CCEP (Certified Compliance & Ethics Professional), CCEP-I (Certified Compliance & Ethics Professional- International) and CCEP-F (Certified Compliance & Ethics Professional Fellowship).\n\nIn 2008, HCCA launched a private social network that allows compliance professionals to connect online, engage in discussion, share documents including policies and procedures, and start discussion communities dedicated to particular areas of compliance, job titles, and individuals who work in various regions in the US and around the globe. The social network, now called \"HCCAnet\", has profiles of over 15,000 compliance professionals who have used the service.\n\nA monthly magazine, available in print and as an app, providing valuable information for compliance professionals. Your name and employer’s name will be published on the \"New Members\" page in the magazine to showcase your commitment to the profession.\n\nThe HCCA has a dedicated library for members and non-members alike to easily search and have access to over 4,000 documents covering health care compliance issues.\n\nHealth Care Compliance News : http://compliancenews.inhealthcare.com\n"}
{"id": "1097011", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1097011", "title": "Hearing (law)", "text": "Hearing (law)\n\nIn law, a hearing is a proceeding before a court or other decision-making body or officer, such as a government agency or a Parliamentary committee.\n\nA hearing is generally distinguished from a trial in that it is usually shorter and often less formal. In the course of litigation, hearings are conducted as oral arguments in support of motions, whether to resolve the case without further trial on a motion to dismiss or for summary judgment, or to decide discrete issues of law, such as the admissibility of evidence, that will determine how the trial proceeds. Limited evidence and testimony may also be presented in hearings to supplement the legal arguments.\n\nIn the United States, one aspect of the \"due process revolution\" is that many administrative decisions that were once made much less formally must now be preceded by a hearing. An important step in this development was the Supreme Court decision in \"Goldberg v. Kelly\", 397 U.S. 254 (1970). There the Court held that an agency could not terminate a recipient's welfare benefits without a pre-termination hearing. The decision also illustrated that what constitutes a \"hearing\" can depend on the context. In \"Goldberg\", the goal of a speedy decision was held to \"justify the limitation of the pre-termination hearing to minimum procedural safeguards,\" which included such basic matters as the right to appear and to cross-examine witnesses, but did not include \"a complete record and a comprehensive opinion\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18731642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18731642", "title": "Height of Buildings Act of 1910", "text": "Height of Buildings Act of 1910\n\nThe Height of Buildings Act of 1910 was an Act of Congress passed by the 61st United States Congress on June 1, 1910 to limit the height of buildings in Washington, D.C., amending the Height of Buildings Act of 1899. The new height restriction law was more comprehensive than the previous law, and generally restricts building heights along residential streets to , and along commercial corridors to the width of the right-of-way of the street or avenue on which a building fronts, or a maximum of , whichever is shorter.\n\nIn response to the construction of the 164-foot (50-meter) Cairo Hotel in 1894, D.C. Commissioners issued height regulations for buildings in D.C., limiting their height to for residential and for business, or to the width of the street in front, whichever was smaller. The original Height of Buildings Act, passed by Congress in 1899, removed the front street restriction, but reaffirmed limiting buildings to on residential streets and on business streets. It also made an exception for buildings on business streets wide, which were permitted to be tall. \n\nThe 1899 act was amended in 1910 creating Chapter 6, Subchapter 1, Section 5. Section 5 added the restriction that the height of any building would be limited to the width of the adjacent street plus up to a maximum of on residential streets, on commercial streets, and on a small portion of the north side of Pennsylvania Avenue between 1st and 15th Streets Northwest. \n\nThe act has since been amended eight times, of which five amendments made exceptions for specific buildings: St. Matthews Church in December 1930, the Harrington Hotel in June 1914, the National Press Club Building in April 1926, the United Masonic Temple in April 1930, and finally the Georgetown University Hospital in March 1945. The other two amendments including raising the height maximum on residential streets by five additional feet, and permitting residential buildings to have eight instead of ten floors.\n\nThe Basilica of the National Shrine of the Immaculate Conception, completed in 1959, was granted an exemption to the law by the District Zoning Commission. The National Shrine stands as the tallest building in Washington, D.C., excluding the Washington Monument () and the Hughes Memorial Tower (). When the original act was passed in 1899, the Old Post Office Building was grandfathered in, and remains as the tallest high-rise federal building in the city. The tallest commercial building in Washington, D.C. (another one granted an exception) is One Franklin Square, the fifth highest building in the city, which was completed in 1989 and rises to .\n\nThe current policy of the 1910 Height Act has been in place with only small modifications for over 100 years. Its influence on the development of the city both within the monumental core and beyond has shaped Washington's skyline. In order to determine if the city could be provided some relief related to building heights within the original boundaries of the L'Enfant Plan and a loosening of federal oversight outside of the monumental core while protecting federal interests, a revisiting of policy was deemed warranted by Congress at this time.\n\nOne specific issue the District of Columbia government identified that is impacting development within the downtown core is the law prohibiting the use of the penthouse level (i.e. roof) for needs other than mechanical (i.e. HVAC equipment) structures. For example, the height of a building as calculated by the Height Act does not include roof top structures used for mechanical needs within the total allowable height. However, if structures on the roof top (such as a pool house associated with a roof top pool) are constructed for human occupation, it is then calculated as part of the overall height of the building under the law. As a result, architects and designers currently would have to lower their building designs by an entire floor to allow for some human occupied space on the roof, if the building is to reach the maximum allowable height. By allowing usable, human occupying space at the penthouse level, the District of Columbia is arguing that there would be no real impact on the overall height limit and it would not change the \"human scale\" of the current landscape within the city. The current allowable height within the downtown area of the city prohibits \"people's enjoyment of some of the city's greatest spaces and most striking views\".\n\nThe second problem identified focuses on the area of the District of Columbia outside of the original Federal City laid out by L'Enfant. This area is typically north of Florida Avenue, NW (originally known as Boundary Avenue) and east of the Anacostia River. The passage of the 1973 District of Columbia Self-Government and Governmental Reorganization Act (Home Rule Act) allowed for many local government functions to be controlled at the local level for the first time. However, within the Home Rule Act, Congress specifically stated that the DC Council does not have the authority to \"enact any act, resolution or rule which permits the building of any structure within the District of Columbia in excess of the height limitations contained in Section 5 of the Height Act.\" The District of Columbia can argue that its local zoning regulations are as stringent, if not more stringent, in managing building heights throughout the District. The local government has been a strong steward of the evolving architectural landscape of the city through zoning and preservation laws since gaining control through the Home Rule Act.\n\nOn November 19, 2013, the National Capital Planning Commission released their final recommendations regarding the Height Master Plan for Washington, DC. The plan, which looked at the question of possible changes to the Height of Buildings Act of 1910, also reviewed \"who or what entity should manage building heights...[and] gave voice to questions related to Home Rule as well as the role of the U.S. Congress...\". The Commission has put forth four recommendations for Congress' consideration that would include both keeping the status quo in one instance, but proposing policy changes in the other. The first recommendation focuses on the area of the District of Columbia within the original L'Enfant city. \"Due to the concentration of federal interests within the L'Enfant City and to protect the integrity of the form and character of the nation's capital, the federal Height Act should remain in place and no changes should be made to the formula or approach for calculating allowable building height.\" The second recommendation focuses on the area outside of the L'Enfant City and provides the District of Columbia government a mechanism in which to identify targeted areas in the city where they could proposed building heights to exceed the maximum currently allowed by the 1910 Height Act. \"These may be authorized through the existing \"Comprehensive Plan\" process, pending Congressional approval. Should such targeted exceptions be authorized through the \"Comprehensive Plan\", the Height Act would remain in place for all other areas both inside and outside of the L'Enfant City.\" The third recommendation focuses on the important vistas that currently exist within the city. \"The city's most significant viewsheds, to include without limitations, those to and from the U.S. Capitol and White House, should be further evaluated and federal and local protections established, which include policies in the Federal and District Elements of the \"Comprehensive Plan\".\" Finally, the last recommendation is in response to a specific request that the District of Columbia government put forth before Congress during the hearing in 2012. The National Capital Planning Commission agrees and recommends amending \"the Height Act to allow for human occupancy in existing and future penthouses, with restrictions.\" \n\n"}
{"id": "13794911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13794911", "title": "Helmuth-James-von-Moltke-Preis", "text": "Helmuth-James-von-Moltke-Preis\n\nThe Helmuth-James-von-Moltke-Preis was established in 2001 by the German Section of the International Society for Military Law and the Law of War. It is awarded every two years for outstanding judicial works in the field of security policy. \n\nThe prize is named after the German jurist Helmuth von Moltke (1907-1945), involved in the 20 July Plot.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "80332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80332", "title": "Human sacrifice", "text": "Human sacrifice\n\nHuman sacrifice is the act of killing one or more humans, usually as an offering to a deity, as part of a ritual. Human sacrifice has been practiced in various cultures throughout history. Victims were typically ritually killed in a manner that was supposed to please or appease gods, spirits or the deceased. For example, as a propitiatory offering or as a retainer sacrifice when a king's servants are killed in order for them to continue to serve their master in the next life. Closely related practices found in some tribal societies are cannibalism and headhunting.\n\nBy the Iron Age, with the associated developments in religion (the Axial Age), human sacrifice was becoming less common throughout the Old World, and came to be looked down upon as barbaric in classical antiquity. In the New World, however, human sacrifice continued to be widespread to varying degrees until the European colonization of the Americas.\n\nIn modern times, even the practice of animal sacrifice has disappeared from many religions, and human sacrifice has become extremely rare. Most religions condemn the practice, and modern secular laws treat it as murder. In a society which condemns human sacrifice, the term ritual murder is used.\n\nThe idea of human sacrifice has its roots in deep prehistory, in the evolution of human behaviour. From its historical occurrences it seems mostly associated with neolithic or nomadic cultures, on the emergent edge of civilization. \n\nHuman sacrifice has been practiced on a number of different occasions and in many different cultures. The various rationales behind human sacrifice are the same that motivate religious sacrifice in general. Human sacrifice is intended to bring good fortune and to pacify the gods, for example in the context of the dedication of a completed building like a temple or bridge.\n\nIn ancient Japan, legends talk about \"hitobashira\" (\"human pillar\"), in which maidens were buried alive at the base or near some constructions to protect the buildings against disasters or enemy attacks, and almost identical myths appear in the Balkans (The Building of Skadar and Bridge of Arta). \n\nFor the re-consecration of the Great Pyramid of Tenochtitlan in 1487, the Aztecs reported that they killed about 80,400 prisoners over the course of four days. According to Ross Hassig, author of \"Aztec Warfare\", \"between 10,000 and 80,400 persons\" were sacrificed in the ceremony.\n\nHuman sacrifice can also have the intention of winning the gods' favour in warfare. In Homeric legend, Iphigeneia was to be sacrificed by her father Agamemnon to appease Artemis so she would allow the Greeks to wage the Trojan War.\n\nIn some notions of an afterlife, the deceased will benefit from victims killed at his funeral. Mongols, Scythians, early Egyptians and various Mesoamerican chiefs could take most of their household, including servants and concubines, with them to the next world. This is sometimes called a \"retainer sacrifice\", as the leader's retainers would be sacrificed along with their master, so that they could continue to serve him in the afterlife.\nAnother purpose is divination from the body parts of the victim. According to Strabo, Celts stabbed a victim with a sword and divined the future from his death spasms.\n\nHeadhunting is the practice of taking the head of a killed adversary, for ceremonial or magical purposes, or for reasons of prestige. It was found in many pre-modern tribal societies.\n\nHuman sacrifice may be a ritual practiced in a stable society, and may even be conductive to enhance societal bonds (see: Sociology of religion), both by creating a bond unifying the sacrificing community, and in combining human sacrifice and capital punishment, by removing individuals that have a negative effect on societal stability (criminals, religious heretics, foreign slaves or prisoners of war). However, outside of civil religion, human sacrifice may also result in outbursts of \"blood frenzy\" and mass killings that destabilize society. The bursts of human sacrifice during European witch-hunts, or during the French Revolutionary Reign of Terror, show similar sociological patterns (see also Moral panic).\n\nMany cultures show traces of prehistoric human sacrifice in their mythologies and religious texts, but ceased the practice before the onset of historical records. Some see the story of Abraham and Isaac (Genesis 22) as an example of an etiological myth explaining the abolition of human sacrifice. The Vedic \"Purushamedha\" (literally \"human sacrifice\") is already a purely symbolic act in its earliest attestation. According to Pliny the Elder, human sacrifice in Ancient Rome was abolished by a senatorial decree in 97 BCE, although by this time the practice had already become so rare that the decree was mostly a symbolic act. Human sacrifice once abolished is typically replaced by either animal sacrifice, or by the \"mock-sacrifice\" of effigies, such as the Argei in ancient Rome.\n\nThere may be evidence of retainer sacrifice in the early dynastic period at Abydos, when on the death of a King he would be accompanied with servants, and possibly high officials, who would continue to serve him in eternal life. The skeletons that were found had no obvious signs of trauma, leading to speculation that the giving up of life to serve the King may have been a voluntary act, possibly carried out in a drug induced state. At about 2800 BCE any possible evidence of such practices disappeared, though echoes are perhaps to be seen in the burial of statues of servants in Old Kingdom tombs.\n\nRetainer sacrifice was practised within the royal tombs of ancient Mesopotamia. Courtiers, guards, musicians, handmaidens and grooms were presumed to have committed ritual suicide by taking poison. A new examination of skulls from the royal cemetery at Ur, discovered in Iraq almost a century ago, appears to support a more grisly interpretation of human sacrifices associated with elite burials in ancient Mesopotamia than had previously been recognized, say archaeologists. Palace attendants, as part of royal mortuary ritual, were not dosed with poison to meet death serenely. Instead, they were put to death by having a sharp instrument, such as a pike, driven into their heads.\n\nReferences in the Bible point to an awareness of human sacrifice in the history of ancient near-eastern practice. During a battle with the Israelites the King of Moab gives his firstborn son and heir as a whole burnt offering (\"olah\", as used of the Temple sacrifice) (2 Kings 3:27). The Bible then recounts that following the King's sacrifice \"There was great indignation [or wrath] against Israel\", and that the Israelites had to raise their siege of the Moabite capital and go away. This verse had perplexed many later Jewish and Christian commentators who tried to explain why should the Moabite King's sacrifice make God angry at the Israelites. Whatever the explanation, evidently at the time of writing such an act of sacrificing the firstborn son and heir was considered as an emergency measure, to be performed in exceptional cases where Divine favor is desperately needed - and that in such cases it might be effective.\n\nThe binding of Isaac appears in the Book of Genesis (22); the story appears in the Quran but Ismael is the one to be sacrificed. In both the Quranic and Biblical stories, God tests Abraham by asking him to present his son as a sacrifice on Moriah. Abraham agrees to this command without arguing. The story ends with an angel stopping Abraham at the last minute and providing a ram, caught in some nearby bushes, to be sacrificed instead. Many Bible scholars have suggested this story's origin was a remembrance of an era when human sacrifice was abolished in favour of animal sacrifice.\n\nAnother possible instance of human sacrifice mentioned in the Bible is the sacrifice of Jephthah's daughter in Judges 11. Jephthah vows to sacrifice to God whatsoever comes to greet him at the door when he returns home if he is victorious. The vow is stated in the Book of Judges, 11:31: \"Then it shall be, that whatsoever cometh forth of the doors of my house to meet me, when I return in peace from the children of Ammon, shall surely be the Lord's, and I will offer Him a burnt offering.\" When he returns from battle, his virgin daughter runs out to greet him. She begs for, and is granted, \"two months to roam the hills and weep with my friends\", after which \"he [Jephthah] did to her as he had vowed.\" According to some commentators of rabbinic literature, Jepthah's daughter was not sacrificed, but was forbidden to marry and remained a spinster her entire life, fulfilling the vow that she would be devoted to the Lord.\n\nAccording to Roman and Greek sources, Phoenicians and Carthaginians sacrificed infants to their gods. The bones of numerous infants have been found in Carthaginian archaeological sites in modern times but the subject of child sacrifice is controversial. In a single child cemetery called the Tophet by archaeologists, an estimated 20,000 urns were deposited.\n\nPlutarch (c. 46–120 CE) mentions the practice, as do Tertullian, Orosius, Diodorus Siculus and Philo. Livy and Polybius do not. The Bible asserts that children were sacrificed at a place called the tophet (\"roasting place\") to the god Moloch. According to Diodorus Siculus' \"Bibliotheca historica\", \"There was in their city a bronze image of Cronus extending its hands, palms up and sloping toward the ground, so that each of the children when placed thereon rolled down and fell into a sort of gaping pit filled with fire.\"\n\nPlutarch, however claims that the children were already dead at the time, having been killed by their parents, whose consent—as well as that of the children—was required; Tertullian explains the acquiescence of the children as a product of their youthful trustfulness.\n\nThe accuracy of such stories is disputed by some modern historians and archaeologists.\n\nThere is archaeological evidence of human sacrifice in Neolithic to Eneolithic Europe.\n\nReferences to human sacrifice can be found in Greek historical accounts as well as mythology. The human sacrifice in mythology, the \"deus ex machina\" salvation in some versions of Iphigeneia (who was about to be sacrificed by her father Agamemnon) and her replacement with a deer by the goddess Artemis, may be a vestigial memory of the abandonment and discrediting of the practice of human sacrifice among the Greeks in favour of animal sacrifice.\n\nIn ancient Rome, human sacrifice was infrequent but documented. Roman authors often contrast their own behavior with that of people who would commit the heinous act of human sacrifice. These authors make it clear that such practices were from a much more uncivilized time in the past, far removed. It is thought that many ritualistic celebrations and dedications to gods used to involve human sacrifice, but have now been replaced with symbolic offerings. Dionysius of Halicarnassus says that the ritual of the Argei, in which straw figures were tossed into the Tiber river, may have been a substitute for an original offering of elderly men. Cicero claims that puppets thrown from the Pons Suplicius by the Vestal Virgins in a processional ceremony were substitutes for the past sacrifice of old men. After the Roman defeat at Cannae, two Gauls and two Greeks in male-female couples were buried under the Forum Boarium, in a stone chamber used for the purpose at least once before. In Livy's description of these sacrifices, he distances the practice from Roman tradition and asserts that the past human sacrifices evident in the same location were “wholly alien to the Roman spirit.\" The rite was apparently repeated in 113 BCE, preparatory to an invasion of Gaul. They buried both the Greeks and the two Gauls alive as a plea to the Gods to save Rome from destruction at the hands of Hannibal. When the Romans conquered the Celts in Gaul, they tortured the people by cutting off their hands and feet and leaving them to die. The Romans justified their actions by also accusing the Celts of practicing human sacrifice.\n\nAccording to Pliny the Elder, human sacrifice was banned by law during the consulship of Publius Licinius Crassus and Gnaeus Cornelius Lentulus in 97 BCE, although by this time it was so rare that the decree was largely symbolic. The Romans also had traditions that centered around ritual murder, but which they did not consider to be sacrifice. Such practices included burying unchaste Vestal Virgins alive and drowning hermaphroditic children. These were seen as reactions to extraordinary circumstances as opposed to being part of Roman tradition. Vestal Virgins who were accused of being unchaste were put to death, and a special chamber was built to bury them alive. This aim was to please the gods and restore balance to Rome. Human sacrifices, in the form of burying individuals alive, were not uncommon during times of panic in ancient Rome. However, the burial of unchaste Vestal Virgins was also practiced in times of peace. Their chasteness was thought to be a safeguard of the city, and even in punishment the state of their bodies was preserved in order to maintain the peace.\n\nCaptured enemy leaders were only occasionally executed at the conclusion of a Roman triumph, and the Romans themselves did not consider these deaths a sacrificial offering. Gladiator combat was thought by the Romans to have originated as fights to the death among war captives at the funerals of Roman generals, and Christian polemicists such as Tertullian considered deaths in the arena to be little more than human sacrifice. \nOver time, participants became criminals and slaves, and their death was considered a sacrifice to the Manes on behalf of the dead.\n\nPolitical rumors sometimes centered around sacrifice and in doing so, aimed to liken individuals to barbarians and show that the individual had become uncivilized. Human sacrifice also became a marker and defining characteristic of magic and bad religion.\n\nAccording to Roman sources, Celtic Druids engaged extensively in human sacrifice. According to Julius Caesar, the slaves and dependents of Gauls of rank would be burnt along with the body of their master as part of his funerary rites. He also describes how they built wicker figures that were filled with living humans and then burned. According to Cassius Dio, Boudica's forces impaled Roman captives during her rebellion against the Roman occupation, to the accompaniment of revelry and sacrifices in the sacred groves of Andate. Different gods reportedly required different kinds of sacrifices. Victims meant for Esus were hanged, Tollund Man being an example, those meant for Taranis immolated and those for Teutates drowned. Some, like the Lindow Man, may have gone to their deaths willingly.\n\nRitualised decapitation was a major religious and cultural practice which has found copious support in the archaeological record, including the numerous skulls discovered in Londinium's River Walbrook and the 12 headless corpses at the French late Iron Age sanctuary of Gournay-sur-Aronde.\n\nHuman sacrifice was not a particularly common occurrence among the Germanic peoples, being resorted to in exceptional situations arising from crises of an environmental (crop failure, drought, famine) or social (war) nature, often thought to derive at least in part from the failure of the king to establish and/or maintain prosperity and peace (\"árs ok friðar\") in the lands entrusted to him. In later Scandinavian practice, human sacrifice appears to have become more institutionalised, and was repeated as part of a larger sacrifice on a periodic basis (according to Adam of Bremen every nine years).\n\nEvidence of Germanic practices of human sacrifice predating the Viking Age depend on archaeology and on a few scattered accounts in Greco-Roman ethnography. For example, Tacitus reports Germanic human sacrifice to (what he interprets as) Mercury, and to Isis specifically among the Suebians. Jordanes reports how the Goths sacrificed prisoners of war to Mars, suspending the severed arms of the victims from the branches of trees.\n\nBy the 10th century, Germanic paganism had become restricted to Scandinavia. One account by Ahmad ibn Fadlan as part of his account of an embassy to the Volga Bulgars in 921 claims that Norse warriors were sometimes buried with enslaved women with the belief that these women would become their wives in Valhalla. In his description of the funeral of a Scandinavian chieftain, a slave volunteers to die with a Norseman. After ten days of festivities, she is stabbed to death by an old woman, a sort of priestess who is referred to as Völva or \"Angel of Death\", and burnt together with the dead in his boat. This practice is evidenced archaeologically, with many male warrior burials (such as the ship burial at Balladoole on the Isle of Man, or that at Oseberg in Norway) also containing female remains with signs of trauma.\n\nAccording to Adémar de Chabannes, just before his death in 932 or 933, Rollo (founder and first ruler of the Viking principality of Normandy) practised human sacrifices to appease the pagan gods, and at the same time made gifts to the churches in Normandy.\n\nAdam von Bremen recorded human sacrifices to Odin in 11th-century Sweden, at the Temple at Uppsala, a tradition which is confirmed by \"Gesta Danorum\" and the Norse sagas. According to the Ynglinga saga, king Domalde was sacrificed there in the hope of bringing greater future harvests and the total domination of all future wars. The same saga also relates that Domalde's descendant king Aun sacrificed nine of his own sons to Odin in exchange for longer life, until the Swedes stopped him from sacrificing his last son, Egil.\n\nHeidrek in the Hervarar saga agrees to the sacrifice of his son in exchange for the command over a fourth of the men of Reidgotaland. With these, he seizes the entire kingdom and prevents the sacrifice of his son, dedicating those fallen in his rebellion to Odin instead.\n\nIn the 10th century, Persian explorer Ahmad ibn Rustah described funerary rites for the Rus' (Scandinavian Norsemen traders in northeastern Europe) including the sacrifice of a young female slave. Leo the Deacon describes prisoner sacrifice by the Rus' led by Sviatoslav during the Russo-Byzantine War \"in accordance with their ancestral custom.\"\n\nAccording to the 12th-century Russian Primary Chronicle, prisoners of war were sacrificed to the supreme Slavic deity Perun. Sacrifices to pagan gods, along with paganism itself, were banned after the Baptism of Rus' by Prince Vladimir I in the 980s.\n\nArcheological findings indicate that the practice may have been widespread, at least among slaves, judging from mass graves containing the cremated fragments of a number of different people.\n\nThe ancient Chinese are known to have made drowned sacrifices of men and women to the river god Hebo. They also have buried slaves alive with their owners upon death as part of a funeral service. This was especially prevalent during the Shang and Zhou Dynasties. During the Warring States period, Ximen Bao of Wei outlawed human sacrificial practices to the river god. In Chinese lore, Ximen Bao is regarded as a folk hero who pointed out the absurdity of human sacrifice.\n\nThe sacrifice of a high-ranking male's slaves, concubines or servants upon his death (called \"Xun Zang\" 殉葬 or \"Sheng Xun\" 生殉) was a more common form. The stated purpose was to provide companionship for the dead in the afterlife. In earlier times, the victims were either killed or buried alive, while later they were usually forced to commit suicide.\n\nFuneral human sacrifice was widely practiced in the ancient Chinese state of Qin. According to the \"Records of the Grand Historian\" by Han Dynasty historian Sima Qian, the practice was started by Duke Wu, the tenth ruler of Qin, who had 66 people buried with him in 678 BCE. The fourteenth ruler Duke Mu had 177 people buried with him in 621 BCE, including three senior government officials. Afterwards, the people of Qin wrote the famous poem \"Yellow Bird\" to condemn this barbaric practice, later compiled in the Confucian \"Classic of Poetry\". The tomb of the eighteenth ruler Duke Jing of Qin, who died in 537 BCE, has been excavated. More than 180 coffins containing the remains of 186 victims were found in the tomb. The practice would continue until Duke Xian of Qin abolished it in 384 BCE. Modern historian Ma Feibai considers the significance of Duke Xian's abolition of human sacrifice in Chinese history comparable to that of Abraham Lincoln's abolition of slavery in American history.\n\nAfter the abolition by Duke Xian, funeral human sacrifice became relatively rare throughout the central parts of China. However, the Hongwu Emperor of the Ming Dynasty revived it in 1395 when his second son died and two of the prince's concubines were sacrificed. In 1464, the Tianshun Emperor in his will forbade the practice for Ming emperors and princes.\n\nHuman sacrifice was also practised by the Manchus. Following Nurhaci's death, his wife, Lady Abahai, and his two lesser consorts committed suicide. During the Qing Dynasty, sacrifice of slaves was banned by the Kangxi Emperor in 1673.\n\nHuman sacrifice, including cannibalism, was practiced in Tibet prior to the arrival of Buddhism in the 7th century.\n\nThe prevalence of human sacrifice in medieval Buddhist Tibet is less clear. The Lamas, as professing Buddhists, could not condone blood sacrifices, and they replaced the human victims with effigies made from dough. This replacement of human victims with effigies is attributed to Padmasambhava, a Tibetan saint of the mid-8th century, in Tibetan tradition.\n\nNevertheless, there is some evidence that outside of lamaism, there were practices of tantric human sacrifice which survived throughout the medieval period, and possibly into modern times. The 15th-century Blue Annals, a document of Tibetan Buddhism, reports upon how in 13th-century Tibet the so-called \"18 robber-monks\" slaughtered men and women in their ceremonies. Such practices of human sacrifice were mostly replaced by animal sacrifice, or the self-infliction of wounds in religious ritual, by the 20th century. A systematic survey of evidence for human sacrifice in 20th-century Tibet turns up three instances:\n\nBased on this evidence, Grunfeld (1996) concludes that it cannot be ruled out that isolated instances of human sacrifice did survive in remote areas of Tibet until the mid-20th century, but they must have been rare enough to have left no more traces than the evidence cited above.\n\nIn India, human sacrifice is mainly known as \"Narabali\". Here \"nara\" means man and \"bali\" means sacrifice. It takes place in some part of India mostly to Find Lost Treasure. In Maharashtra Government Make it illegal to practice with the Anti-Superstition and Black Magic Act\n\nCurrently human sacrifice is very rare and almost non-existent in modern India. However, there have been at least three cases through 2003–2013 where men have been murdered in the name of human sacrifice implying the practice may still be ongoing in greater numbers in the unpoliced slums.\n\nThe earliest evidence for human sacrifice in the Indian subcontinent dates back to the Bronze Age Indus Valley Civilization. An Indus seal from Harappa depicts the upside-down nude female figure with legs outspread and a plant issuing from her womb. The reverse side of the seal depicts a man holding a sickle and a woman seated on the ground in a posture of prayer. Many scholars interpret this scene as a human sacrifice in honor of the Mother-Goddess, although many historians doubt it.\n\nRegarding possible Vedic mention of human sacrifice, the prevailing 19th-century view, associated above all with Henry Colebrooke, was that human sacrifice did not actually take place. Those verses which referred to \"purushamedha\" were meant to be read symbolically, or as a \"priestly fantasy\". However, Rajendralal Mitra published a defence of the thesis that human sacrifice, as had been practised in Bengal, was a continuation of traditions dating back to Vedic periods. Hermann Oldenberg held to Colebrooke's view; but Jan Gonda underlined its disputed status.\n\nHuman and animal sacrifice became less common during the post-Vedic period, as \"ahimsa\" (non-violence) became part of mainstream religious thought. The Chandogya Upanishad (3.17.4) includes ahimsa in its list of virtues. The impact of Sramanic religions such as Buddhism and Jainism also became known in the Indian subcontinent.\nIt was agreed even by Colebrooke, however, that by the Puranic period—at least at the time of the writing of the Kalika-Purana, human sacrifice was accepted. The Kalika Purana was composed in Northeast India in the 11th century. The text states that blood sacrifice is only permitted when the country is in danger and war is expected. According to the text, the performer of a sacrifice will obtain victory over his enemies. In the medieval period, it became increasingly common. In the 7th century, Banabhatta, in a description of the dedication of a temple of Chandika, describes a series of human sacrifices; similarly, in the 9th century, Haribhadra describes the sacrifices to Chandika in Odisha. The town of Kuknur in North Karnataka there exists an ancient Kali temple, built around the 8-9th century AD, which has a history of human sacrifices.\n\nHuman sacrifice is reputed to have been performed on the altars of the Hatimura Temple, a Shakti (Great Goddess) temple located at Silghat, in the Nagaon district of Assam. It was built during the reign of king Pramatta Singha in 1667 \"Sakabda\" (1745–1746 AD). It used to be an important center of Shaktism in ancient Assam. Its presiding goddess is Durga in her aspect of \"Mahisamardini\", slayer of the demon Mahisasura. It was also performed in the Tamresari Temple which was located in Sadiya under the Chutia kings.\n\nHuman sacrifices were carried out in connection with the worship of Shakti until approximately the early modern period, and in Bengal perhaps as late as the early 19th century. Although not accepted by larger section of Hindu culture, certain Tantric cults performed human sacrifice until around the same time, both actual and symbolic; it was a highly ritualised act, and on occasion took many months to complete.\n\nThe Khonds, an aboriginal tribe of India, inhabiting the tributary states of Odisha and Andhra Pradesh, became notorious, on the British occupation of their district about 1835, from the prevalence and cruelty of the human sacrifices they practised.\n\nIn Ancient Hawaii, a luakini temple, or luakini heiau, was a Native Hawaiian sacred place where human and animal blood sacrifices were offered. \"Kauwa\", the outcast or slave class, were often used as human sacrifices at the \"luakini heiau\". They are believed to have been war captives, or the descendants of war captives. They were not the only sacrifices; law-breakers of all castes or defeated political opponents were also acceptable as victims.\n\nThe people of Fiji practised widow-strangling. When Fijians adopted Christianity, widow-strangling was abandoned.\n\nSome of the most famous forms of ancient human sacrifice were performed by various Pre-Columbian civilizations in the Americas that included the sacrifice of prisoners as well as voluntary sacrifice. Friar Marcos de Niza (1539), writing of the Chichimecas, said that from time to time \"they of this valley cast lots whose luck (honour) it shall be to be sacrificed, and they make him great cheer, on whom the lot falls, and with great joy they crown him with flowers upon a bed prepared in the said ditch all full of flowers and sweet herbs, on which they lay him along, and lay great store of dry wood on both sides of him, and set it on fire on either part, and so he dies\" and \"that the victim took great pleasure\" in being sacrificed.\n\nThe Mixtec players of the Mesoamerican ballgame were sacrificed when the game was used to resolve a dispute between cities. The rulers would play a game instead of going to battle. The losing ruler would be sacrificed. The ruler \"Eight Deer\", who was considered a great ball player and who won several cities this way, was eventually sacrificed, because he attempted to go beyond lineage-governing practices, and to try to create an empire.\n\nThe Maya held the belief that cenotes or limestone sinkholes were portals to the underworld and sacrificed human beings and tossed them down the cenote to please the water god Chaac. The most notable example of this is the \"Sacred Cenote\" at Chichén Itzá. Extensive excavations have recovered the remains of 42 individuals, half of them under twenty years old.\n\nOnly in the Post-Classic era did this practice become as frequent as in central Mexico. In the Post-Classic period, the victims and the altar are represented as daubed in a hue now known as Maya Blue, obtained from the añil plant and the clay mineral palygorskite.\n\nThe Aztecs were particularly noted for practicing human sacrifice on a large scale; an offering to Huitzilopochtli would be made to restore the blood he lost, as the sun was engaged in a daily battle. Human sacrifices would prevent the end of the world that could happen on each cycle of 52 years. In the 1487 re-consecration of the Great Pyramid of Tenochtitlan some estimate that 80,400 prisoners were sacrificed though numbers are difficult to quantify as all obtainable Aztec texts were destroyed by Christian missionaries during the period 1528–1548. The Aztec, also known as Mexica, periodically sacrificed children as it was believed that the rain god, Tlāloc, required the tears of children.\n\nAccording to Ross Hassig, author of \"Aztec Warfare\", \"between 10,000 and 80,400 people\" were sacrificed in the ceremony. The old reports of numbers sacrificed for special feasts have been described as \"unbelievably high\" by some authors and that on cautious reckoning, based on reliable evidence, the numbers could not have exceeded at most several hundred per year in Tenochtitlan. The real number of sacrificed victims during the 1487 consecration is unknown.\nMichael Harner, in his 1997 article \"The Enigma of Aztec Sacrifice\", estimates the number of persons sacrificed in central Mexico in the 15th century as high as 250,000 per year. Fernando de Alva Cortés Ixtlilxochitl, a Mexica descendant and the author of \"Codex Ixtlilxochitl\", claimed that one in five children of the Mexica subjects was killed annually. Victor Davis Hanson argues that an estimate by Carlos Zumárraga of 20,000 per annum is more plausible. Other scholars believe that, since the Aztecs always tried to intimidate their enemies, it is far more likely that they inflated the official number as a propaganda tool.\n\nThe peoples of the Southeastern United States known as the Mississippian culture (800 to 1600 CE) have been suggested to have practiced human sacrifice, because some artifacts have been interpreted as depicting such acts. Mound 72 at Cahokia (the largest Mississippian site), located near modern St. Louis, Missouri, was found to have numerous pits filled with mass burials thought to have been retainer sacrifices. One of several similar pit burials had the remains of 53 young women who had been strangled and neatly arranged in two layers. Another pit held 39 men, women and children who showed signs of dying a violent death before being unceremoniously dumped into the pit. Several bodies showed signs of not having been fully dead when buried and of having tried to claw their way to the surface. On top of these people another group had been neatly arranged on litters made of cedar poles and cane matting. Another group of four individuals found in the mound were interred on a low platform, with their arms interlocked. They had had their heads and hands removed. The most spectacular burial at the mound is the \"Birdman burial\". This was the burial of a tall man in his 40s, now thought to have been an important early Cahokian ruler. He was buried on an elevated platform covered by a bed of more than 20,000 marine-shell disc beads arranged in the shape of a falcon, with the bird's head appearing beneath and beside the man's head, and its wings and tail beneath his arms and legs. Below the birdman was another man, buried facing downward. Surrounding the birdman were several other retainers and groups of elaborate grave goods.\n\nA ritual sacrifice of retainers and commoners upon the death of an elite personage is also attested in the historical record among the last remaining fully Mississippian culture, the Natchez. Upon the death of \"Tattooed Serpent\" in 1725, the war chief and younger brother of the \"Great Sun\" or Chief of the Natchez; two of his wives, one of his sisters (nicknamed \"La Glorieuse\" by the French), his first warrior, his doctor, his head servant and the servant's wife, his nurse, and a craftsman of war clubs all chose to die and be interred with him, as well as several old women and an infant who was strangled by his parents. Great honor was associated with such a sacrifice, and their kin were held in high esteem. After a funeral procession with the chiefs body carried on a litter made of cane matting and cedar poles ended at the temple (which was located on top of a low platform mound); the retainers with their faces painted red and drugged with large doses of nicotine, were ritually strangled. Tattooed Serpent was then buried in a trench inside the temple floor and the retainers were buried in other locations atop the mound surrounding the temple. After a few months time the bodies were dis-interred and their defleshed bones were stored as bundle burials in the temple.\n\nThe Pawnee practiced an annual Morning Star Ceremony, which included the sacrifice of a young girl. Though the ritual continued, the sacrifice was discontinued in the 19th century. The Iroquois are said to have occasionally sent a maiden to the Great Spirit.\n\nThe torture of war captives by the tribes of the Eastern Woodlands cultural region also seems to have had sacrificial motivations. See Captives in American Indian Wars\n\nThe Incas practiced human sacrifice, especially at great festivals or royal funerals where retainers died to accompany the dead into the next life. The Moche of Eastern Peru sacrificed teenagers en masse, as archaeologist Steve Bourget found when he uncovered the bones of 42 male adolescents in 1995.\n\nThe study of the images seen in Moche art has enabled researchers to reconstruct the culture's most important ceremonial sequence, which began with ritual combat and culminated in the sacrifice of those defeated in battle. Dressed in fine clothes and adornments, armed warriors faced each other in ritual combat. In this hand-to-hand encounter the aim was to remove the opponent's headdress rather than kill him. The object of the combat was the provision of victims for sacrifice. The vanquished were stripped and bound, after which they were led in procession to the place of sacrifice. The captives are portrayed as strong and sexually potent. In the temple, the priests and priestesses would prepare the victims for sacrifice. The sacrificial methods employed varied, but at least one of the victims would be bled to death. His blood was offered to the principal deities in order to please and placate them.\n\nThe Inca of Peru also made human sacrifices. As many as 4,000 servants, court officials, favorites, and concubines were killed upon the death of the Inca Huayna Capac in 1527, for example. A number of mummies of sacrificed children have been recovered in the Inca regions of South America, an ancient practice known as \"qhapaq hucha\". The Incas performed child sacrifices during or after important events, such as the death of the Sapa Inca (emperor) or during a famine.\n\nHuman sacrifice was common in West African states up to and during the 19th century. The Annual customs of Dahomey was the most notorious example, but sacrifices were carried out all along the West African coast and further inland. Sacrifices were particularly common after the death of a King or Queen, and there are many recorded cases of hundreds or even thousands of slaves being sacrificed at such events. Sacrifices were particularly common in Dahomey, in the Benin Empire, in what is now Ghana, and in the small independent states in what is now southern Nigeria. According to Rudolph Rummel, \"Just consider the Grand Custom in Dahomey: When a ruler died, hundreds, sometimes even thousands, of prisoners would be slain. In one of these ceremonies in 1727, as many as 4,000 were reported killed. In addition, Dahomey had an Annual Custom during which 500 prisoners were sacrificed.\"\n\nIn the Ashanti Region of modern-day Ghana, human sacrifice was often combined with capital punishment.\n\nIn the northern parts of West Africa, human sacrifice had become rare early as Islam became more established in these areas such as the Hausa States. Human sacrifice was officially banned in the remainder of West African states only by coercion, or in some cases annexation, by either the British or French. An important step was the British coercing the powerful Egbo secret society to oppose human sacrifice in 1850. This society was powerful in a large number of states in what is now south-eastern Nigeria. Nonetheless, human sacrifice continued, normally in secret, until West Africa came under firm colonial control.\n\nThe \"Leopard men\" were a West African secret society active into the mid-1900s that practised cannibalism. In theory, the ritual cannibalism would strengthen both members of the society as well as their entire tribe. In Tanganyika, the \"Lion men\" committed an estimated 200 murders in a single three-month period.\n\nIt has been reported from Spanish chronicles that the Guanches (ancient inhabitants of these islands) performed both animal and human sacrifices.\n\nDuring the summer solstice in Tenerife children were sacrificed by being thrown from a cliff into the sea. These children were brought from various parts of the island for the purpose of sacrifice. Likewise, when an aboriginal king died his subjects should also assume the sea, along with the embalmers who embalmed the Guanche mummies.\n\nIn Gran Canaria, bones of children were found mixed with those of lambs and goat kids and on Tenerife, amphorae have been found with the remains of children inside. This suggests a different kind of ritual infanticide to those who were thrown off the cliffs.\n\nJudaism explicitly forbids human sacrifice, regarding it as murder. Jews view the \"Akedah\" as central to the abolition of human sacrifice. Some Talmudic scholars assert that its replacement is the sacrificial offering of animals at the Temple —using Exodus 13:2–12f; 22:28f; 34:19f; Numeri 3:1ff; 18:15; Deuteronomy 15:19—others view that as being superseded by the symbolic \"pars-pro-toto\" sacrifice of the covenant of circumcision. Leviticus 20:2 and Deuteronomy 18:10 specifically outlaw the giving of children to Moloch, making it punishable by stoning; the Tanakh subsequently denounces human sacrifice as barbaric customs of Moloch worshippers (e.g. Psalms 106:37ff).\n\nJudges chapter 11 features a Judge named Jephthah vowing that \"whatsoever cometh forth from the doors of my house to meet me shall surely be the Lord's, and I will offer it up as a burnt-offering\" in gratitude for God's help with a military battle against the Ammonites. Much to Jephthah's dismay, his only daughter greeted him upon his triumphant return. Judges 11:39 states that Jephthah did as he had vowed, but \"shies away from explicitly depicting her sacrifice, which leads some ancient and modern interpreters (e.g., Radak) to suggest that she was not actually killed.\"\n\nAccording to the Mishnah he was under no obligation to keep the ill-phrased, illegal vow. According to Rabbi Jochanan, in his commentary on the Mishnah, it was Jephthah's obligation to pay the vow in money. According to the commentators of the rabbinic Jewish tradition, Jepthah's daughter was not sacrificed, but was forbidden to marry and remained a spinster her entire life.\n\nThe 1st-century CE Jewish-Hellenistic historian Flavius Josephus, however, stated that Jephthah \"sacrificed his child as a burnt-offering—a sacrifice neither sanctioned by the law nor well-pleasing to God; for he had not by reflection probed what might befall or in what aspect the deed would appear to them that heard of it\". Latin philosopher pseudo-Philo, late first century CE, wrote that Jephthah burnt his daughter because he could find no sage in Israel who would cancel his vow. In other words, in the opinion of the Latin philosopher, this story of an ill-phrased vow consolidates that human sacrifice is not an order or requirement by God, but the punishment for those who illegally vowed to sacrifice humans.\n\nChristianity developed the belief that the story of Isaac's binding was a foreshadowing of the sacrifice of Christ, whose death and resurrection enabled the salvation and atonement for man from its sins, including original sin. There is a tradition that the site of Isaac's binding, Moriah, later became Jerusalem, the city of Jesus's future crucifixion. The beliefs of most Christian denominations hinge upon the substitutionary atonement of the sacrifice of God the Son, which was necessary for salvation in the afterlife. According to Christian doctrine, each individual person on earth must participate in, and/or receive the benefits of, this divine human sacrifice for the atonement of their sins. Early Christian sources explicitly described this event as a sacrificial offering, with Christ in the role of both priest and human sacrifice, although starting with the Enlightenment, some writers, such as John Locke, have disputed the model of Jesus' death as a propitiatory sacrifice.\n\nRené Girard has argued that the Gospels are a radical subversion of pagan notions of sacrifice. Instead of humans offering victims to angry deities (as is always the case with pagan sacrifice), Jesus, as the incarnate presence of God (YHWH), offers himself into the hands of violent humans to reveal what the Hebrew prophets meant when they said that \"the Lord\" (YHWH) rejects sacrifice and desires justice and mercy instead. The \"self-sacrifice\" of Christ is, therefore, a revelation that violent sacrifice has nothing to do with God. It is simply murder—which the story of Cain and Abel showed at the very dawn of civilisation (Cain is called \"father of cities\"). Saint Paul calls on Christians in his Letter to the Romans (12:1) to do the very opposite of conventional religious sacrifice: \"offer your own bodies as a living sacrifice\", he says, instead of the dead bodies of others. In other words, the only kind of \"sacrifice\" acceptable to God is to give one's life for others, which means to live one's life for others, even unto death, just as Jesus did. It is in that sense that Christ \"sacrificed\" himself; and in that sense that his \"pure sacrifice\" is celebrated in the sacrament of the eucharist.\n\nEastern Orthodox and Roman Catholic Christians believe that this \"pure sacrifice\" as Christ's self-giving in love is made present in the sacrament of the Eucharist. In this tradition, bread and wine becomes the \"Real Presence\" (the literal carnal Body and Blood of the Risen Christ. Receiving the Eucharist is a central part of the religious life of Catholic and Orthodox Christians. Most Protestant traditions do not share the belief in the Real Presence but otherwise are varied, for example, they may believe that in the bread and wine, Christ is present only spiritually, not in the sense of a change in substance (Methodism) or that the bread and wine of communion are a merely symbolic reminder (Baptist). Although early Christians in the Roman Empire were accused of being cannibals, \"theophages\" (Greek for \"god eaters\") practices such as human sacrifice were abhorrent to them.\n\nIn medieval Irish Catholic texts, there is mention of the early church in Ireland supposedly containing the practice of burying sacrificial victims underneath churches in order to consecrate them. This may have a relation to pagan Celtic practices of foundation sacrifice. The most notable example of this is the case of Odran of Iona a companion of St Columba who (according to legend) volunteered to die and be buried under the church of the monastery of Iona. However, there is no evidence that such things ever happened in reality and contemporary records closer to the time period have no mention of a practice like this.\n\nMany traditions of Eastern religions including Buddhism, Jainism and some sects of Hinduism embrace the doctrine of \"ahimsa\" (non-violence) which imposes vegetarianism and outlaws animal as well as human sacrifice.\n\nIn the case of Buddhism, both \"bhikkhus\" (monks) and \"bhikkhunis\" (nuns) were forbidden to take life in any form as part of the monastic code, while non-violence was promoted among laity through encouragement of the Five Precepts. Across the Buddhist world both meat and alcohol are strongly discouraged as offerings to a Buddhist altar, with the former being synonymous with sacrifice, and the latter a violation of the Five Precepts.\n\nIn Hinduism, based on the principle of \"ahimsa\", any human or animal sacrifice is forbidden. In the 19th and 20th centuries, prominent figures of Indian spirituality such as Swami Vivekananda, Ramana Maharshi, Swami Sivananda, and A.C. Bhaktivedanta Swami emphasised the importance of ahimsa.\n\nIn Jainism, although ahimsa is considered its foremost vow, the extension of this to self-sacrifice at times may be considered equivalent to human sacrifice (or ritual suicide), especially by those who oppose the Jain practice of Sallekhana (fasting to death), whereas Jaina scriptures supposedly (or interpretively) counter that \"Sallekhana leads to Ahimsa\", because their concept of simple living could even become excessive to that end (as it may be impossible to exist more or less selflessly), when lifestyle remains a preclusion to the state of nirvana, and likewise a notion of transcending the problem (of how to live and let live), with one's bodily sacrifice being a voluntary spiritual practice; perhaps the courts having ruled back and forth on it as a legal matter suggests that the paradox (or debatability) of Ahimsa versus Sallekhana, which is essentially that of nonviolence amounting to violence, involves determining whether such a death is a physical act of human sacrifice or lack thereof.\n\nAllegations accusing Jews of committing ritual murder were widespread during the Middle Ages, often leading to the slaughter of entire Jewish communities. In the 20th century, blood libel accusations re-emerged as part of the satanic ritual abuse moral panic.\n\nIn their effort to discredit Tibetan Buddhism, the People's Republic of China as well as Chinese nationalists in the Republic of China make frequent and emphatic references to the historical practice of human sacrifice in Tibet, portraying the 1950 People's Liberation Army invasion of Tibet as an act of humanitarian intervention.\nAccording to Chinese sources, in the year 1948, 21 individuals were murdered by state sacrificial priests from Lhasa as part of a ritual of enemy destruction, because their organs were required as magical ingredients.\nThe \"Tibetan Revolutions Museum\" established by the Chinese in Lhasa has numerous morbid ritual objects on display to illustrate these claims.\nIn Taiwan, Li Ao in his TV talk show in 2006 claimed that the Dalai Lama had commanded human sacrifices, asking his followers to \"tear out human skin\" for \"some religious ceremony\".\nMost of the human remains that the Chinese exhibit as gruesome evidence of Tibetan human sacrifice are in fact body parts of people who died of natural causes which were collected after sky burial and preserved as relics.\n\nIn the city of Altamira, State of Pará, several children were raped, with their genitalia mutilated for what appear to be ritual purposes, and then stabbed to death, between 1989 and 1993. It is believed that the boys' sexual organs were used in rites of black magic.\n\nA 1989 book by investigative journalist Patrick Tierney documents a modern ritual human sacrifice during the devastating earthquake and tsunami of 1960 by a Machi of the Mapuche in the Lago Budi community.\n\nThe victim, 5-year-old José Luis Painecur, had his arms and legs removed by Juan Pañán and Juan José Painecur (the victim's grandfather), and was stuck into the sand of the beach like a stake. The waters of the Pacific Ocean then carried the body out to sea. The sacrifice was rumoured to be at the behest of local machi, Juana Namuncurá Añen. The two men were charged with the crime and confessed, but later recanted. They were released after two years. A judge ruled that those involved in these events had \"acted without free will, driven by an irresistible natural force of ancestral tradition.\"\n\nIn 1963, a small cult in Nuevo Leon, Mexico, founded by two brothers, Santos and Cayetano Hernández, committed between 8 and 12 murders during bloody rituals that included drinking human blood. The cult was initially a scam to obtain money and sexual favors, but after a prostitute named Magdalena Solís entered in the organization, she inaugurated human sacrifices inspired by ancient Aztec rituals as a method to control disciples.\n\nDuring the 1980s, other case of serial murders that involved human sacrifices rituals occurred in Tamaulipas, Mexico. The drug dealer and cult leader Adolfo Constanzo orchestrated several executions during rituals that included the victims' dismemberment. Constanzo had several accomplices, one of them was Sara Aldrete, a woman who participated actively in around 15 murders between 1987 and 1989.\n\nBetween 2009 and 2010, in Sonora, Mexico, a serial killer named Silvia Meraz committed three murders in sacrifice rituals. With the help of her family, she beheaded two boys (both relatives) and one woman in front of an altar dedicated to Santa Muerte.\n\nIn 2017, two suspected members of the MS-13 gang have been charged with allegedly murdering a Houston 15-year-old girl as part of a \"Satanic\" ritual.\n\nIn March 2010, a 26-year-old labourer in Bangladesh was killed by fellow workers on the orders of the owners after a fortune teller suggested that a human sacrifice would yield highly prized “red bricks”.\n\nHuman sacrifice is illegal in India. However, a few cases do occur in remote and underdeveloped regions of the country, where modernity has not penetrated well and tribal/semi-tribal groups adhere to cultural practices as they did over the course of millennia. According to the \"Hindustan Times\", there was an incident of human sacrifice in western Uttar Pradesh in 2003. Similarly, police in Khurja reported \"dozens of sacrifices\" in the period of half a year in 2006, by followers of Kali, the goddess of power.\n\nIn 2015 during the \"Granite scam\" investigations of Tamil Nadu there were reports of possible human sacrifices in the Madurai region to pacify goddess Shakthi for getting power to develop the illegal granite business. Bones and skulls were retrieved from the alleged sites in presence of the special judicial officer appointed by the high court of Madras.\n\nOn 2001 it was reported Carolyn Jamica Noraini Abdullah, 35, had been murdered so that the perpetrators might learn the winning numbers on the national lottery.\n\nIn 2015 it was suspected that a 10-year-old boy who disappeared near the village of Kudiya was in fact sacrificed by a neighboring family hoping to save the life of a sick child propitiating spirits with a human sacrifice.\n\nIn 1981, three people in Singapore were convicted of murdering two children, purportedly as sacrifices to Kali. They were hanged in 1988.\n\nHuman sacrifice, in the context of religious ritual, still occurs in other traditional religions, for example in muti killings in South Africa and other ritual killings in West African Vodun. When the purpose of the practice is to procure wealth for the one who commissions the act, a human sacrifice is called a Money ritual. Human sacrifice is no longer officially condoned in any country, and such cases are regarded as murder.\n\nIn January, 2008, Milton Blahyi of Liberia confessed being part of human sacrifices which \"included the killing of an innocent child and plucking out the heart, which was divided into pieces for us to eat.\" He fought against Charles Taylor's militia.\n\nIn June 2005, a report by the BBC claimed that boys from Africa were being trafficked to the UK for human sacrifice. It noted that children were beaten and murdered after being labelled as witches by pastors in an Angolan community in London.\n\nSteven Tari, a Papua New Guinea cult leader known as \"Black Jesus\" was castrated and disemboweled by villagers after being hacked to death. Police said that he was hunted down by a mob of villagers, after allegedly killing a teenage girl during a sacrifice ritual.\n\nRitual killings perpetrated by individuals or small groups within a society that denounces them as simple murder are difficult to classify as either \"human sacrifice\" or mere pathological homicide because they lack the societal integration of sacrifice proper.\n\nThe instances closest to \"ritual killing\" in the criminal history of modern society would be pathological serial killers such as the Zodiac Killer, and mass suicides with a doomsday cult background, such as the Peoples Temple, the Movement for the Restoration of the Ten Commandments of God, the Order of the Solar Temple or the Heaven's Gate incidents. Other examples include the \"Matamoros killings\" attributed to American cult leader Adolfo Constanzo and the \"Superior Universal Alignment\" killings in 1990s Brazil.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7115965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7115965", "title": "IETF language tag", "text": "IETF language tag\n\nAn IETF language tag is an abbreviated language code (for example, \"en\" for English, \"pt-BR\" for Brazilian Portuguese, or \"nan-Hant-TW\" for Min Nan Chinese as spoken in Taiwan using traditional Han characters) defined by the Internet Engineering Task Force (IETF) in the \"BCP 47\" document series, which is currently composed of normative RFC 5646 (referencing the related RFC 5645) and RFC 4647, along with the normative content of the \"IANA Language Subtag Registry\". Components of language tags are drawn from ISO 639, ISO 15924, ISO 3166-1, and UN M.49.\n\nThese language tags are used in a number of modern computing standards, including those from the IETF related to the Internet protocols such as HTTP, those from the World Wide Web Consortium such as HTML, XML and PNG, and those from other private standardization bodies such as SGML or Unicode (in some of its standard annexes), or from national or regional standard bodies like ANSI or Ecma (for example in some of their standards related to computing languages, or bibliographic references and documents classification used in institutional libraries).\n\nIETF language tags were first defined in RFC 1766, edited by Harald Tveit Alvestrand, published in March 1995. The tags used ISO 639 two-letter language codes and ISO 3166 two-letter country codes, and allowed registration of whole tags that included variant or script subtags of three to eight letters.\n\nIn January 2001 this was updated by RFC 3066, which added the use of ISO 639-2 three-letter codes, permitted subtags with digits, and adopted the concept of language ranges from HTTP/1.1 to help with matching of language tags.\n\nThe next revision of the specification came in September 2006 with the publication of RFC 4646 (the main part of the specification), edited by Addison Philips and Mark Davis and <nowiki>RFC 4647</nowiki> (which deals with matching behaviour). <nowiki>RFC 4646</nowiki> introduced a more structured format for language tags, added the use of ISO 15924 four-letter script codes and UN M.49 three-digit geographical region codes, and replaced the old registry of tags with a new registry of subtags. The small number of previously defined tags that did not conform to the new structure were grandfathered in order to maintain compatibility with <nowiki>RFC 3066</nowiki>.\n\nThe current version of the specification, RFC 5646, was published in September 2009. The main purpose of this revision was to incorporate three-letter codes from ISO 639-3 and 639-5 into the Language Subtag Registry, in order to increase the interoperability between ISO 639 and BCP 47.\n\nEach language tag is composed of one or more \"subtags\" separated by hyphens (-). Each subtag is composed of basic Latin letters or digits only.\n\nWith the exceptions of private-use language tags beginning with an \"x-\" prefix and grandfathered language tags (including those starting with an \"i-\" prefix and those previously registered in the old Language Tag Registry), subtags occur in the following order:\n\nSubtags are not case-sensitive, but the specification recommends using the same case as in the Language Subtag Registry, where region subtags are UPPERCASE, script subtags are Title Case, and all other subtags are lowercase. This capitalization follows the recommendations of the underlying ISO standards.\n\nOptional script and region subtags are preferred to be omitted when they add no distinguishing information to a language tag. For example, \"es\" is preferred over \"es-Latn\", as Spanish is fully expected to be written in the Latin script; \"ja\" is preferred over \"ja-JP\", as Japanese \"as used in Japan\" does not differ markedly from Japanese as used elsewhere.\n\nNot all linguistic regions can be represented with a valid region subtag: the subnational regional dialects of a primary language are registered as variant subtags. For example, the \"valencia\" variant subtag for the Valencian dialect of Catalan is registered in the Language Subtag Registry with the prefix \"ca\". As this dialect is spoken almost exclusively in Spain, the region subtag \"ES\" can normally be omitted.\n\nIETF language tags have been used as locale identifiers in many applications. It may be necessary for these applications to establish their own strategy for defining, encoding and matching locales if the strategy described in <nowiki>RFC 4647</nowiki> is not adequate.\n\nThe use, interpretation and matching of IETF language tags is currently defined in <nowiki>RFC 5646</nowiki> and <nowiki>RFC 4647</nowiki>. The Language Subtag Registry lists all currently valid public subtags. Private-use subtags are not included in the Registry as they are implementation-dependent and subject to private agreements between third parties using them. These private agreements are out of scope of BCP 47.\n\nAlthough some types of subtags are derived from ISO or UN core standards, they do not follow these standards absolutely, as this could lead to the meaning of language tags changing over time. In particular, a subtag derived from a code assigned by ISO 639, ISO 15924, ISO 3166, or UN M.49 remains a valid (though deprecated) subtag even if the code is withdrawn from the corresponding core standard. If the standard later assigns a new meaning to the withdrawn code, the corresponding subtag will still retain its old meaning.\n\nThis stability was introduced in RFC 4646.\n\nRFC 4646 defined the concept of an \"extended language subtag\" (sometimes referred to as \"extlang\"), although no such subtags were registered at that time.\n\nRFC 5645 and RFC 5646 added primary language subtags corresponding to ISO 639-3 codes for all languages that did not already exist in the Registry. In addition, codes for languages encompassed by certain macrolanguages were registered as extended language subtags. Sign languages were also registered as extlangs, with the prefix \"sgn\". These languages may be represented either with the subtag for the encompassed language alone (\"cmn\" for Mandarin) or with a language-extlang combination (\"zh-cmn\"). The first option is preferred for most purposes. The second option is called \"extlang form\" and is new in RFC 5646.\n\nWhole tags that were registered prior to RFC 4646 and are now classified as \"grandfathered\" or \"redundant\" (depending on whether they fit the new syntax) are deprecated in favor of the corresponding ISO 639-3–based language subtag, if one exists. To list a few examples, \"nan\" is preferred over \"zh-min-nan\" for Min Nan Chinese; \"hak\" is preferred over \"i-hak\" and \"zh-hakka\" for Hakka Chinese; and \"ase\" is preferred over \"sgn-US\" for American Sign Language.\n\nISO 639-5 defines language collections with alpha-3 codes in a different way than they were initially encoded in ISO 639-2 (including one code already present in ISO 639-1). Specifically, the language collections are now all defined in ISO 639-5 as inclusive, rather than some of them being defined exclusively. This means that language collections have a broader scope than before, in some cases where they could encompass languages that were already encoded separately within ISO 639-2.\n\nFor example, the ISO 639-2 code \"afa\" was previously associated with the name \"Afro-Asiatic (Other)\", excluding languages such as Arabic that already had their own code. In ISO 639-5, this collection is named \"Afro-Asiatic languages\" and includes all such languages. ISO 639-2 changed the exclusive names in 2009 to match the inclusive ISO 639-5 names.\n\nTo avoid breaking implementations that may still depend on the older (exclusive) definition of these collections, ISO 639-5 defines a grouping type attribute for all collections that were already encoded in ISO 639-2 (such grouping type is not defined for the new collections added only in ISO 639-5).\n\nBCP 47 defines a \"Scope\" property to identify subtags for language collections. However, it does not define any given collection as inclusive or exclusive, and does not use the ISO 639-5 grouping type attribute, although the description fields in the Language Subtag Registry for these subtags match the ISO 639-5 (inclusive) names. As a consequence, BCP 47 language tags that include a primary language subtag for a collection may be ambiguous as to whether the collection is intended to be inclusive or exclusive.\n\nISO 639-5 does not define precisely which languages are members of these collections; only the hierarchical classification of collections is defined, using the inclusive definition of these collections. Because of this, RFC 5646 does not recommend the use of subtags for language collections for most applications, although they are still preferred over subtags whose meaning is even less specific, such as \"Multiple languages\" and \"Undetermined\".\n\nIn contrast, the classification of individual languages within their macrolanguage is standardized, in both ISO 639-3 and the Language Subtag Registry.\n\nScript subtags were first added to the Language Subtag Registry when RFC 4646 was published, from the list of codes defined in ISO 15924. They are encoded in the language tag after primary and extended language subtags, but before other types of subtag, including region and variant subtags.\n\nSome primary language subtags are defined with a property named \"Suppress-Script\" which indicates the cases where a single script can usually be assumed by default for the language, even if it can be written with another script. When this is the case, it is preferable to omit the script subtag, to improve the likelihood of successful matching. A different script subtag can still be appended to make the distinction when necessary. For example, \"yi\" is preferred over \"yi-Hebr\" in most contexts, because the Hebrew script subtag is assumed for the Yiddish language.\n\nAs another example, \"zh-Hans-SG\" may be considered equivalent to \"zh-Hans\", because the region code is probably not significant; the written form of Chinese used in Singapore uses the same simplified Chinese characters as in other countries where Chinese is written. However, the script subtag is maintained because it is significant.\n\nNote that ISO 15924 includes some codes for script variants (for example, \"Hans\" and \"Hant\" for simplified and traditional forms of Chinese characters) that are unified within Unicode and ISO/IEC 10646. These script variants are most often encoded for bibliographic purposes, but are not always significant from a linguistic point of view (for example, \"Latf\" and \"Latg\" script codes for the Fraktur and Gaelic variants of the Latin script, which are mostly encoded with regular Latin letters in Unicode and ISO/IEC 10646). They may occasionally be useful in language tags to expose orthographic or semantic differences, with different analysis of letters, diacritics, and digraphs/trigraphs as default grapheme clusters, or differences in letter casing rules.\n\nTwo-letter region subtags are based on codes assigned, or \"exceptionally reserved\", in ISO 3166-1. If the ISO 3166 Maintenance Agency were to reassign a code that had previously been assigned to a different country, the existing BCP 47 subtag corresponding to that code would retain its meaning, and a new region subtag based on UN M.49 would be registered for the new country. UN M.49 is also the source for numeric region subtags for geographical regions, such as codice_1 for South America.\n\nRegion subtags are used to specify the variety of a language \"as used in\" a particular region. They are appropriate when the variety is regional in nature, and can be captured adequately by identifying the countries involved, as when distinguishing British English (\"en-GB\") from American English (\"en-US\"). When the difference is one of script or script variety, as for simplified versus traditional Chinese characters, it should be expressed with a script subtag instead of a region subtag; in this example, \"zh-Hans\" and \"zh-Hant\" should be used instead of \"zh-CN\" and \"zh-HK\".\n\nWhen a distinct language subtag exists for a language that could be considered a regional variety, it is often preferable to use the more specific subtag instead of a language-region combination. For example, \"ar-DZ\" (Arabic as used in Algeria) may be better expressed as \"arq\" for Algerian Spoken Arabic.\n\n\"Extension subtags\" (not to be confused with \"extended language subtags\") allow additional information to be attached to a language tag that does not necessarily serve to identify a language. One use for extensions is to encode locale information, such as calendar and currency.\n\nExtension subtags are composed of multiple hyphen-separated character strings, starting with a single character (other than \"x\"), called a \"singleton\". Each extension is described in its own IETF RFC, which identifies a Registration Authority to manage the data for that extension. IANA is responsible for allocating singletons.\n\nTwo extensions have been assigned as of January 2014.\n\nExtension T allows a language tag to include information on how the tagged data was transliterated, transcribed, or otherwise transformed. For example, the tag \"en-t-jp\" could be used for content in English that was translated from the original Japanese. Additional substrings could indicate that the translation was done mechanically, or in accordance with a published standard.\n\nExtension T is described in RFC 6497, published in February 2012. The Registration Authority is the Unicode Consortium.\n\nExtension U allows a wide variety of locale attributes found in the Common Locale Data Repository (CLDR) to be embedded in language tags. These attributes include calendar and time zone data, collation order, currency, number system, and keyboard identification. Tags containing a \"u-\" extension are more likely to be used to identify locale data sets than for purely linguistic content.\n\nSome examples include:\n\nExtension U is described in RFC 6067, published in December 2010. The Registration Authority is the Unicode Consortium.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34795834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34795834", "title": "International Tropical Timber Agreement, 2006", "text": "International Tropical Timber Agreement, 2006\n\nThe International Tropical Timber Agreement (ITTA, 2006 or ITTA3) is to \"promote the expansion and diversification of\ninternational trade in tropical timber from sustainably managed and legally harvested forests\nand to promote the sustainable management of tropical timber producing forests\".\n\nIt entered into force on 7 December 2011 and replaces the International Tropical Timber Agreement, 1994. As of October 2018, there are 74 parties to the agreement. Nigeria and Paraguay have signed the agreement but have not ratified it. Canada ratified the agreement in 2009 but has since denounced it.\n\n"}
{"id": "6713200", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6713200", "title": "Japanese nationality law", "text": "Japanese nationality law\n\nJapanese nationality is a legal designation and set of rights granted to those people who have met the criteria for citizenship by parentage or by naturalization. Nationality is in the jurisdiction of the Minister of Justice and is generally governed by the Nationality Law of 1950.\n\nJapan is a strict \"jus sanguinis\" state as opposed to \"jus soli\" state, meaning that it attributes citizenship by blood and not by location of birth. In practice, it can be by parentage and not by descent.\nArticle 2 of the Nationality Act provides three situations in which a person can become a Japanese national at birth:\n\n\nA system for acquiring nationality by birth after birth is also available. If an unmarried Japanese father and non-Japanese mother have a child, the parents later marry, and the Japanese father acknowledges paternity, the child can acquire Japanese nationality, so long as the child has not reached the age of 20. Japanese nationality law effective from 1985 has been that if the parents are not married at the time of birth and the father has not acknowledged paternity while the child was still in the womb, the child will not acquire Japanese nationality. However, Japan's Supreme Court ruled in 2008 that denying nationality to children born out of wedlock to foreign mothers is unconstitutional.\n\nFollowing this, the conservative Liberal Democratic Party and others, claiming the possibility of false recognition of paternity, suggested mandatory DNA testing. This was rejected by the Democratic Party, and instead a bill was passed in 2009 allowing photographs of the father and child and scientific testing to be requested as evidence in cases of doubt.\n\nNaturalization in Japan requires the applicant to give up their current citizenship(s) either before or shortly after, depending on the nationality, the naturalization takes place if the loss of nationality does not occur automatically. Although there are rules in place, Japanese government does not strictly impose rules for the naturalization process, as the exact process for each specific nationality depends on the Japan's international relations and agreements with the given country. Basic naturalization requirements also differ from person to person regardless of their nationality and depending on the applicant's current status in Japan. Unlike most other countries, the applicant does not have to have been a permanent resident to be eligible to apply for Japanese naturalization.\n\nThe outlined criteria for naturalization are provided in Article 5 of the Nationality Act:\n\n\nThe Minister of Justice may waive the age and residence requirements if the applicant has a special relationship to Japan (for example, a Japanese parent).\n\nThe Nationality Act also provides that the Diet of Japan may confer Japanese nationality by special resolution to a person who has provided extraordinary service to Japan. However, this provision has never been invoked.\n\nThose that naturalize must choose a legal name, like other Japanese, that consists of all or any mix of Japanese hiragana, katakana, and approved kanji. Sometimes applicants were given advice on Japanese names, but choosing a Japanese sounding/appearing name was never a requirement; there are examples through history of naturalized Japanese choosing legal names that did not appear ethnically Japanese. However, in 1983, the Ministry of Justice revised its manuals and application guides and examples to make it clear that using names of non-Japanese origin can be acceptable, by making the \"before\" and \"after\" hanja/kanji name of fictitious example ethnically Korean applicants the same in order to emphasize that applicants who come from Chinese character name cultures can keep their names.\n\nA well-known example of someone who did not adopt a Japanese name is Masayoshi Son, the wealthiest man in Japan as of 2007, who naturalized using his Korean family name rather than the Japanese family name he used during his youth.\n\nThe application has to be made in person to the Ministry of Justice branch office with responsibility for the city where the applicant lives. A booklet will be given to the applicant at the first visit which explains every needed document and processes explained in Japanese.\n\nThe naturalization process has three stages.\n\n\nThe booklet given at the beginning of the process lists every document that the applicant needs from their home country and their country's embassy in Japan. The applicant needs to be able to speak and express himself/herself in Japanese and be able to answer the interview questions in Japanese. The interviewer will ask questions about the form applicant filled and about why applicant wants to acquire Japanese citizenship. At the end, there may be a written test at an elementary school second grade level.\n\nAfter the documents are sent to Tokyo for processing at the Ministry of Justice headquarters, it can take from 8 to 10 months (or longer depending on the applicant) from the first application. The applicant will be called by their interviewer about the decision once the interviewer gets the results from Tokyo.\n\nLoss of citizenship requires the approval of the Minister of Justice.\n\nA Japanese national is assumed to have renounced their nationality upon naturalization in any foreign country.\n\nUnder the revisions made to the Nationality Law in 1985, Articles 14 and 15 require any person who holds multiple citizenship to make a \"declaration of choice\" between the ages of 20 and 22, in which they choose to renounce either their Japanese nationality or their foreign citizenship(s). Failure to do so entitles the Minister of Justice to demand a declaration of choice at any time. If the required declaration is not made within one month, their Japanese nationality is automatically revoked. A renunciation of foreign citizenship made before Japanese officials may be considered by a foreign state as having no legal effect as is the case with, for example, United States citizenship.\n\nJapanese nationals who hold multiple citizenship by birth, and who do not wish to lose their Japanese citizenship, are required to declare their desire to retain Japanese citizenship by the age of 21. Part of fulfilling this requirement is to \"make an effort\" to renounce other citizenships once they have declared their intent to retain Japanese nationality. This may be difficult for some Japanese with foreign nationality, for example, Iranian nationals cannot renounce their Iranian nationality until age 25.\n\nA Japanese national does not lose his or her nationality in situations where citizenship is acquired involuntarily such as when a Japanese woman marries an Iranian national. In this case she automatically acquires Iranian citizenship and is permitted to be an Iranian-Japanese dual national, since the acquisition of the Iranian citizenship was involuntary.\n\nThough it is unknown whether it has ever happened, citizenship can also be lost if a person becomes a civil servant of a foreign government, should their role be felt to contradict what it means to be a citizen of Japan.\n\nIn November 2008, Liberal Democratic Party member Tarō Kōno submitted a proposal to allow offspring of mixed-nationality couples in which one parent is Japanese to have more than one nationality. The proposal also calls for foreigners to be allowed to obtain Japanese nationality without losing their original citizenship.\n\nIt is generally difficult to have dual citizenship of Japan and another country, due to the provisions for loss of Japanese nationality when a Japanese national naturalizes in another country (see \"Loss of citizenship\" above), and the requirement to renounce one's existing citizenships when naturalizing in Japan (see \"Naturalization\" above).\n\nThere are still some ways in which a person may have dual citizenship of Japan and another country, including:\n\n\nIn 2018, Japanese citizens had visa-free or visa on arrival access to 180 countries and territories, ranking the Japanese passport 1st in the world according to the Visa Restrictions Index.\n\nIn 2017, the Japanese nationality is ranked twenty-ninth in the Nationality Index (QNI). This index differs from the Visa Restrictions Index, which focuses on external factors including travel freedom. The QNI considers, in addition to travel freedom, on internal factors such as peace & stability, economic strength, and human development as well. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "52153122", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52153122", "title": "Joint Declaration of Pope Francis and Bishop Munib Younan", "text": "Joint Declaration of Pope Francis and Bishop Munib Younan\n\nThe Joint Declaration of Pope Francis and Bishop Munib Younan was signed during a service on Reformation Day, 31 October 2016, at the Lund Cathedral in Lund, Sweden, between Pope Francis, who as the Bishop of the Church of Rome is the pontiff of the Catholic Church, and Bishop Munib Younan, the President of the Lutheran World Federation. This was the first time leaders of the Roman Church and the Lutheran World Federation had met and celebrated the Reformation. The service heralded 12 months of events leading up to the 500th anniversary next year of Martin Luther nailing his 95 theses to a church door in Wittenberg, Germany.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33214922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33214922", "title": "Kotohira Jinsha v. McGrath", "text": "Kotohira Jinsha v. McGrath\n\nKotohira Jinsha v. McGrath, Attorney General. (90 F. Supp. 892) was a District court case allowing Shinto Shrines to reopen following World War II.\n\nKotohira Jinsha Shrine was established in 1920.\n\nDecember 7, 1941 the Empire of Japan attacked Pearl Harbor thereafter practice of Shinto was banned by marshal law, throughout the war clergy are deported to Japan or transferred to the U.S. mainland.\n\nOctober 24, 1944 martial law was lifted in Hawaii.\n\nSeptember 2, 1945 Japan surrenders and World War II is over.\n\nDecember 15, 1945 Shinto Directive abolishes State Shinto, Japan’s state religion.\n\nApril 6, 1946 without a clergy, the remaining ministry closes Kotohira Jinsha\n\nDecember 31, 1947 with declining tensions towards Japanese tradition, Shintos reopen Kotohira Jinsha despite the absence of a clergy.\n\nJune 1, 1948 federal officers raided the shrine under the Trading with the Enemy Act the seize the Kotohira Jinsha property and making arrests.\n\nMarch 4, 1949 the Federal Government announces the sale of the seized Kotohira Jinsha property.\n\nApril 4, 1949 Kotohira Jinsha reacted by hiring law firm, Robertson, Castle & Anthony.\n\nMarch 31, 1949 Kotohira Jinsha files lawsuit against the Attorney General’s office (held by J. Howard McGrath) for misusing Section 9 of the Trading with the Enemy Act against a civilian organization and not under the influence of the Japanese government.\n\nMarch 27, 1950 The trial started and ended on May 17, 1950.\n\nMay 18, 1950 Judge McLaughlin ruled in favor of the plaintiffs, Kotohira Jinsha.\n\nJoseph F. McLaughlin\n\nRobertson, Castle & Anthony\n\nAttorney General’s office\n\nJudge McLaughlin found the Attorney General’s office in violation of the First Amendment rights of plaintiffs in the United States Constitution with reference to Robert H. Jackson in American Communications Association v. Douds.\n\nJudge J. Frank McLaughlin found the Attorney General’s office had no basis on which to exercise the Trading with the Enemy Act, moreover since 1945 Japan had abolished state religion under Douglas MacArthur and by judicial order return seized property to Kotohira Jinsha.\n\nKotohira Jinsha Shrine reopened almost immediately after the case that year.\nAfter relocating a second time in 1962 to make way for the H1 Freeway (the first time in 1931) to its current location.\n\nThe successful case demonstrated the possibility for other Japanese-based organizations perceived as being wronged by the United States to go to court.\n\nIn 2010 the Ground Zero mosque controversy over Park51 near the World Trade Center site, in comparison between the Attack on Pearl Harbor and September 11 attacks, renewed interest Kotohira in \"Jinsha v. McGrath\" arose as a counterpart for Park51.\n\n"}
{"id": "6257886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6257886", "title": "Landfill tax", "text": "Landfill tax\n\nA landfill tax or levy is a form of tax that is applied in some countries to increase the cost of landfill. The tax is typically levied in units of currency per unit of weight or volume (£/t, €/t, $/yard³). The tax is in addition to the overall cost of landfill and forms a proportion of the gate fee.\n\nA tax or fee may be imposed on landfills or other disposal facilities as a means of raising general revenues, to generate funds for inspection programs or long-term mitigation of environmental impacts related to disposal, or as a means of inhibiting disposal by raising the cost in comparison to preferable alternatives, in the same manner as an excise or \"sin tax\".\n\nLandfilling is discouraged due to a number of key reasons:\n\n\nIn New Zealand the Waste Minimisation Act 2008 allowed for the charging of a landfill levy. Half of the landfill levy goes to local authorities with the other half going into a Waste Minimisation Fund. As of 2010 it is set at $10 a tonne but it can be reviewed by the Minister for the Environment.\n\nLandfill Tax was introduced in 1996 by Conservative Secretary of State for the Environment, John Gummer, and was the UK's first environmental tax. The tax is seen as a key mechanism in enabling the UK to meet its targets set out in the Landfill Directive for the landfilling of biodegradable waste. Through increasing the cost of landfill, other advanced waste treatment technologies with higher gate fees are made to become more financially attractive.\n\nThe amount of tax levied is calculated according to the weight of the material disposed of and whether it is active or inactive waste.\n\n\nInevitably there will be some mixing of waste such as inert bricks and concrete mixed with small amounts of wood or mineral dust packaged in polythene bags. It is for the producer of the waste to decide what is reasonable and acceptable in terms of active waste contamination of inert waste.\n\nThe landfill site operator is responsible for paying the tax and will pass the cost on to businesses and local councils on top of normal landfill fees. VAT is charged on the landfill fees and the landfill tax.\n\nOperators can reduce their tax liability by making payments to the Landfill Communities Fund under the Landfill Tax Credit Scheme. The fund aids community or environmental projects in the vicinity of a landfill site and is regulated by ENTRUST, a company limited by guarantee.\n\nLandfill tax rates 2013–2014\n\n\nSections from the coalition government's Emergency Budget 2010:\n\nLandfill tax rates 2015–16\n\nFrom 1 April 2015 to April 2016 the landfill tax rates were:\n\nWith the Scotland Act 2012, the Scottish Government gained the devolved power to levy its own landfill tax. The Scottish Landfill Tax was introduced by the Landfill Tax (Scotland) Act 2014 and began to be payable on 1 April 2015.\n\nIn 2015 and 2016, there were concerns that some companies disposing waste to landfill were wrongly putting waste with a biodegradable and non-inert content into landfills at the inactive waste taxation level. A new testing regime was introduced, where a small amount of the load is tested to ascertain its biodegradable content.\n\nLandfill tax rates 2018-19\n\nFrom 1 April 2018 to April 2019 the landfill tax rates are:\n\nThe Welsh Government will take responsibility for the tax in Wales from April 2018.\n\nThe United States has numerous federal laws and regulations regarding the operation of landfills, but there is no national landfill tax or fee. Many states and local governments collect fees and taxes on the collection or disposal of solid waste.\n\nLandfills in California are subject to fees and taxes levied by cities and counties, as well as by the state. The Integrated Waste Management Act of 1989 authorized a state fee (set at $1.40 per ton effective 2002-07-01) to fund the activities of the California Integrated Waste Management Board (CIWMB). Many cities and counties collect fees from landfills within their jurisdiction to recover the costs of local solid waste planning and inspection programs, to operate programs for the collection and disposal of household hazardous wastes, and to fund some costs of recycling and reuse programs.\n\nLandfills in San Jose are subject to the highest disposal tax in California, with the Disposal Facility Tax set at $13.00 per ton in 1992.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57846594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57846594", "title": "Ministry of Justice (Burkina Faso)", "text": "Ministry of Justice (Burkina Faso)\n\nThe Ministry of Justice, Human Rights and Civic Promotion, Keeper of the Seals of Burkina Faso is responsible for the following:\n\n\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki>The country was known as Upper Volta until 1984 when it was renamed Burkina Faso.\n\n"}
{"id": "57916522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57916522", "title": "Ministry of Justice (Lesotho)", "text": "Ministry of Justice (Lesotho)\n\nThe Ministry of Justice, Human Rights & Correctional Services of Lesotho aims to dispense and oversee the administration of justice, protection and the promotion of human rights, as well as the rehabilitation of offenders. To fulfill its mandate, the ministry delivers justice and accessibility via the effective uses of correctional resources and the provision of skills. Lastly, the ministry employs a zero tolerance approach to corruption and the vulnerable segments of the population that are subjected to violations of human rights.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49115771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49115771", "title": "Notice of Intent to Deny", "text": "Notice of Intent to Deny\n\nA Notice of Intent to Deny (NOID) is a notice issued by the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services to petitioners for residency, citizenship, family visas, and employment visas. Examples of petitions for which a NOID may be issued are Form I-129 (alien worker authorization), Form I-140 (immigrant worker authorization), and Form I-130 (family visas).\n\nThe NOID is used for situations where the adjudicator (the person evaluating the petition) believes that the petition should be denied, but that the petitioner may have additional evidence that might lead the petition to be approved. Its main use is to save the petitioner and the USCIS time and effort involved in dealing with denials (through re-petitioning or appeal).\n\nThe NOID is sent to, and the response must be sent by, the petitioner (or the attorney representing the petitioner, in cases where the petition is filed through an attorney) rather than the beneficiary.\n\nThe NOID is accompanied by stated reasons for issuing the NOID (which, if not addressed, will be the reasons for denial) and a time within which the petitioner must respond. If the petitioner submits no response, the petition is denied. If the petitioner responds, the additional evidence is considered prior to a final decision.\n\nThe following are some key differences between the Request For Evidence (RFE) and NOID:\n\n\nAnother communication similar to NOID is the Notice of Intent to Revoke, used in cases where the USCIS has received additional evidence after approving a petition and is reconsidering it for revocation. This is often prompted by a consular officer returning the petition to the USCIS. Consular officers return petitions to the USCIS if, in the course of deciding a visa application by the beneficiary based on the petition, they come across reason to believe that the petition was based on fraud or misrepresentation.\n"}
{"id": "39136298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39136298", "title": "Oluf Gabriel Lund", "text": "Oluf Gabriel Lund\n\nOluf Gabriel Lund (8 May 1873 – 29 November 1966) was a Norwegian military officer.\n\nHe was born in Christiania, and graduated from the Military Academy in 1897. He was promoted to captain in 1902, major in 1917, lieutenant colonel in 1924, and colonel in 1929. From 1929 he was in command of the Norwegian 10th Infantry Regiment. In a German court-martial in 1940 Lund was sentenced to death. This was later changed to five years , and he was released in 1943.\n\nAmong his works is \"Historik for Fjordane regiment\" from 1931, and \"Dødsdømt\" from 1945. He was decorated Knight of the Order of the Dannebrog.\n\nHe died in November 1966.\n"}
{"id": "28698611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28698611", "title": "Over-the-top media services", "text": "Over-the-top media services\n\nOver the top (OTT) is a term used to refer to content providers that distribute streaming media as a standalone product directly to viewers over the Internet, bypassing telecommunications, multichannel television, and broadcast television platforms that traditionally act as a controller or distributor of such content. \n\nThe term is most synonymous with subscription-based video on demand services that offer access to film and television content (including existing series acquired from other producers, as well as original content produced specifically for the service), including but not limited to Amazon Video, fuboTV, Hulu, Netflix, Now TV, and Sky Go as well as a wave of \"skinny\" television services that offer access to live streams of linear specialty channels similar to a traditional satellite or wireline television provider, but streamed over the public Internet, rather than a closed, private network with proprietary equipment such as set-top boxes.\n\nOver the top services are typically accessed via websites on personal computers, as well as via apps on mobile devices (such as smartphones and tablets), digital media players (including video game consoles), or televisions with integrated smart TV platforms.\n\nIn 2011, the Canadian Radio-Television and Telecommunications Commission (CRTC) stated that it \"considers that Internet access to programming independent of a facility or network dedicated to its delivery (via, for example, cable or satellite) is the defining feature of what have been termed 'over-the-top' services\".\n\nIn contrast to video on demand video-delivery systems offered by cable and IPTV, which are tightly managed networks where channels can be changed instantly, some OTT services such as iTunes require that the video be downloaded first and then played, while other OTT players such as Apple TV, Amazon Unbox or Netflix offer movie downloads that start playing before the download completes (streaming).\n\nThe FCC categorizes the OTT services into two groups: multichannel video programming distributors (MVPDs); and online video distributors (OVDs).\n\nVirtual MVPDs include such varied services as DirecTV Now, fuboTV, Sling TV, Hulu with Live TV, PlayStation Vue, and YouTube TV.\n\nAn OVD was defined by the FCC as:\n\nIn broadcasting, \"over-the-top content\" (\"OTT\") is the audio, video, and other media content delivered over the Internet without the involvement of a multiple-system operator (MSO) in the control or distribution of the content. The Internet provider may be aware of the contents of the Internet Protocol (IP) packets but is not responsible for, nor able to control, the viewing abilities, copyrights, and/or other redistribution of the content. This model contrasts with the purchasing or rental of video or audio content from an Internet service provider (ISP), such as pay television, video on demand, and from internet protocol television (IPTV). OTT refers to content from a third party that is delivered to an end-user, with the ISP simply transporting IP packets.\n\nOTT television, usually called internet television or streaming television, remains the most popular OTT content. This signal is received over the internet or through a cell phone network, as opposed to receiving the television signal from a terrestrial broadcast or satellite. Access is controlled by the video distributor, through either an app or a separate OTT dongle or box, connected to a phone, PC or television set. By mid-2017, 58 per cent of US households would access one in a given month and advertising revenues from OTT channels exceeded those from web browser plug-ins.\n\nOTT messaging is defined as instant messaging services or online chat provided by third parties, as an alternative to text messaging services provided by a mobile network operator. An example is the Facebook-owned mobile application WhatsApp, that serves to replace text messaging on Internet connected smartphones. Other providers of OTT messaging include Viber, WeChat, Skype, and Google Allo. \n\nOTT voice calling, usually called VOIP, capabilities, for instance, as provided by Skype, WeChat, Viber, and WhatsApp use open internet communication protocols to replace and sometimes enhance existing operator controlled services offered by mobile phone operators.\n\nConsumers can access OTT content through Internet-connected devices such as phones (including Android, iOS, and Windows-type mobile devices), smart TVs (such as Google TV and LG Electronics' Channel Plus), set-top boxes (such as Apple TV, Fire TV and Roku), gaming consoles (such as the PlayStation 4, Wii U, and Xbox One), and desktop and laptop computers and tablets.\n\n"}
{"id": "41248835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41248835", "title": "Personal Insolvency Arrangement", "text": "Personal Insolvency Arrangement\n\nA Personal Insolvency Arrangement (PIA) is Ireland's debt management solution for individuals who want to avoid outright bankruptcy and declare insolvency. The agreement is one of the three alternatives authorized under Ireland's Personal Insolvency Act 2012; Debt Settlement Arrangements (DSA) and Debt Relief Notices (DRN) make the other two arrangements. PIA mandates a legal agreement between a debtor and their creditors, which is mediated and administered by a Personal Insolvency Practitioner (PIP). A PIA usually lasts for a term of six years and must include both unsecured debt and secured debts.\n\nEligibility criteria for a debtor include:\nFurthermore, a debtor must not have any agreements mandated under the instant Act, bankrupt nor accumulated 25% or more of their total debt during the previous 6 months\n\nPersonal Insolvency Act 2012 envisages that Personal Insolvency Arrangements can only be applied for through an approved third party termed as Personal Insolvency Practitioners. The practitioners are required to be authorised by the Insolvency Service of Ireland (ISI) and include Solicitors Barristers, Qualified accountants, qualified financial advisers etc. Till 31 October 2013, it was announced that there are a total of 72 registered Personal Insolvency Practitioners.\n\nThe type of debts that can be included in a PIA are split into three types; Included, Excludable and Excluded.\n\nInitially, the debtor is required to approach a PIP to provide a full disclosure of his or her financial situation. After appraisal, the PIP suggests best possible agreement. If recommended, the debtor can proceed with the PIA application and appoint the PIP to act on their behalf. A Prescribed Financial Statement is then prepared for the debtor. which details key information about a debtor’s finances and clearly shows their insolvent status. It must be fully supported by appropriate financial documentation, such as pay slips, bank statements etc. A statutory declaration in the presence of witnesses to confirm the Prescribed Financial Statement is true and accurate, plus completes and signs the additional documents needed to accompany the Statement to apply for a Protective Certificate. The full application is sent to the Insolvency Service of Ireland (ISI).\n\nA court is authorized to issue a Protective Certificate to the debtor, which provides PIP and the debtor 70 days protection against creditor for preparation of a PIA proposal.\n\nAfter issuance of Protective Certificate, PIP has been mandated to prepare a draft PIA. During the process, the market value of the secured assets can either be agreed between the debtor, creditor and PIP or services of independent valuer can be solicited.\n\nSequel to debtor’s agreement on the PIA proposal, the PIP is required to call a creditors' meeting in which through voting, creditors representing at least 65% of the total debts – 50% of the unsecured and 50% of the secured – must agree to the proposal. After approval in the vote, the documents are required to be forwarded to ISI, which will notify the Circuit Court. Thus final approval sits with the court, and any creditor's objection will be considered by them.\nThe law requires that after approval the debtor’s name, address details, birth year and PIA start date o be made available on the ISI website.\n\nAfter formal approval by the courts and notification with ISI, debtors are required to set up payments to the PIP, which in turn distribute the payments to creditors as per agreements. A PIA has a lifespan of six years.\n\nIf a debtor completes all of their obligations under the PIA, the agreement is considered complete. At completion, PIP through creditors finalize the treatment of the remaining balances debt; unsecured debt balances will be written off, while secured debt balances are discharged as per the PIA agreement. The PIP coordinates the removal of debtor’s information from the Register of Personal Insolvency Arrangements within three months, making the debtor solvent.\n\nA PIA will be deemed to have failed if creditors do not agree to the PIA or if the debtor fails to maintain his or her duties and obligations.\nThis can be avoided if a debtor can anticipate a potential problem keeping up with payments, because their PIP may be able to arrange a variation with creditors to ensure a way can be found to continue with the PIA and prevent it from failing.\n\nIn the UK, a similar arrangement exists under the name of individual voluntary arrangement (IVA). IVA has been mandated under the Insolvency Act 1986.\n\n"}
{"id": "20693941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20693941", "title": "Philip Collins Ltd v Davis", "text": "Philip Collins Ltd v Davis\n\nPhilip Collins Ltd v Davis [2000] 3 All ER 808 is an English unjust enrichment case, an example of a restitution claim and the change of position defence.\n\nPhil Collins released \"Serious Hits… Live!\" with 15 tracks in 1990. Rahmlee Davis and Louis Satterfield contributed performances on five tracks and received album royalties via Collins' publishing company \"Philip Collins Ltd\". In 1997, Collins said they had been mistakenly overpaid by a factor of three. They had been paid as if they had performed on all fifteen tracks, but they had only performed on five. To reverse this alleged unjust enrichment, Collins proposed to set off the overpaid royalties on future royalties. Davis and Satterfield argued back they were entitled to royalties without the pro rata reduction, and raised both estoppel and change of position defences.\n\nJonathan Parker J held Collins had overpaid Davis and Satterfield and he was entitled to set future royalties off against half of the sums overpaid. He said the overpayment was a mistake of fact, because Collins thought they had played in all 15 tracks. Collins was not estopped from maintaining there was overpayment of royalties because there was never any assumption between the parties that Davis and Satterfield would get royalties for all 15 tracks and there was no acquiescence in the assumption. Overpayment was not acquiescence. There was no evidence Davis and Satterfield ever thought they were entitled. The overpayments did not amount to representations that they were (so no estoppel by representation). But the fact of overpayment did result in a general change of position on Davis and Satterfield’s part. It increased their level of outgoings. However, the defence of change of position was not an “all or nothing” doctrine and, in this case, it would be fair to allow the defence to cover one half of the overpayments (\"Lipkin Gorman v Karpnale Ltd\" [1991] 2 AC 548 applied). Finally, if Collins had made a claim to recover the overpayments his claim would have been statute barred under the Limitation Act 1980, s.5 because it was six years. But here it was not a return of overpayments, only an equitable set off against future royalties.\n\nThe following is an excerpt about the change of position defence at work.\n\n"}
{"id": "3752602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3752602", "title": "Priest–penitent privilege", "text": "Priest–penitent privilege\n\nThe clergy–penitent privilege, clergy privilege, confessional privilege, priest–penitent privilege, clergyman–communicant privilege, or ecclesiastical privilege is a rule of evidence that forbids judicial inquiry into certain communications (spoken or otherwise) between clergy and members of their congregation. The law recognises certain communication as privileged and not subject to otherwise obligatory disclosure; for example, this often applies to communications between lawyers and clients. In many jurisdictions certain communications between a member of the clergy of some or all religious faiths (e.g., a minister, priest, rabbi, imam) and a person consulting them in confidence are privileged in law. In particular, Catholics are required to confess sins to priests, who are unconditionally forbidden by Church canon law from making any disclosure, a position supported by the law of many countries, although in conflict with civil law in some jurisdictions. It is a distinct concept from that of confidentiality (see non-disclosure agreement).\n\nThe protection of the clergy–penitent privilege relationships rests on one of the more basic privileges as strong or stronger than the similar clauses to confidentiality between lawyer and client.\n\nThe privilege was recognised under the common law of the Republic of Ireland as the privilege of the priest in the case of \"Cook v. Carroll\" [1945] IR 515., reversing an earlier judgment from 1802. In 2011, in the wake of several sex abuse scandals, the Fine Gael–Labour government announced plans to criminalise failure to report an allegation of child abuse, even if made during confession. Seán Brady, the Catholic primate of all Ireland, condemned this as compromising the seal of the confessional.\n\nAccording to former U.S. Supreme Court Chief Justice, Warren Burger, \"The clergy privilege is rooted in the imperative need for confidence and trust. The... privilege recognizes the human need to disclose to a spiritual counselor, in total and absolute confidence, what are believed to be flawed acts or thoughts and to receive consolations and guidance in return.\"\n\nA pastor has a duty to hold in confidence any information obtained during a counseling session. A pastor who violates this trust might be on the losing end of a suit for an invasion of privacy or defamation.\n\nThe First Amendment is largely cited as the jurisprudential basis. The earliest and most influential case acknowledging the priest–penitent privilege was \"People v. Phillips\" (1813), where the Court of General Sessions of the City of New York refused to compel a priest to testify. The Court opined:\n\nA few years after \"Phillips\" was decided, \"People v. Smith\" distinguished the case on the grounds that the defendant had approached the minister as a \"friend or adviser,\" not in his capacity as a professional or spiritual advisor. As with most privileges, a debate still exists about the circumstances under which the priest–penitent privilege applies. The capacity in which the clergyman is acting at the time of the communication is relevant in many jurisdictions.\n\nIn U.S. practice, the confidentiality privilege has been extended to non-Catholic clergy and non-sacramental counseling, with explicit clergy exemptions put into most state law over the past several decades. In most states, information gained within a confession or private conversation is considered privileged and may be exempted from mandatory reporting requirements.\n\nProposed, but rejected, Rule 506 (Communications to Clergy) of the Federal Rules of Evidence provides:\n\nAccording to New York state law, confessions and confidences made to a clergyman or other minister are privileged and cannot be used as evidence. This privilege is not limited to communications with a particular kind of priest or congregant, and it is not confined to statements made \"under the cloak of confession\". What matters is that the conversations were of a spiritual nature, were confidential enough to indicate that the penitent intended that they be kept secret, and that the penitent did not waive the privilege subsequently.\n\nNew York law (NY CPLR 4505) provides that unless the person confessing or confiding waives the privilege, a clergyman, or other minister of any religion or duly accredited Christian Science practitioner, shall not be allowed to disclose a confession or confidence made to him in his professional character as a spiritual advisor.\n\nA 1999 Oregon bill gives clergy members the same type of immunity long granted to spouses, whose conversations are privileged.\n\nOregon Statute ORS 40.260 (Clergy–Penitent Privilege) states confidential communication made privately and not intended for further disclosure may not be examined unless consent to the disclosure of the confidential communication is given by the person who made the communication. Oregon's reporting law 419B.010(1), explicitly exempts pastors from any duty to report such privileged communications.\n\nIn California, absent a waiver [Ca Evid & 912], both clergy and penitent – whether or not parties to the action – have a privilege to refuse to disclose a \"penitential\" communication.[Ca Evid & 1033, 1034].\n\nIn twenty-five states, the clergyman–communicant statutory privilege does not clearly indicate who holds the privilege. In seventeen states, the penitent's right to hold the privilege is clearly stated. In only six states, both a penitent and a member of the clergy are expressly allowed by the statute to hold the privilege.\n\nIn Florida, pastors have an absolute right to keep counseling details confidential.\n\nThe Official Code of Georgia Annotated states: Every communication made by any person professing religious faith, seeking spiritual comfort, or seeking counseling to any Protestant minister of the Gospel, any priest of the Roman Catholic faith, any priest of the Greek Orthodox Catholic faith, any Jewish rabbi, or any Christian or Jewish minister or similar functionary, by whatever name called, shall be deemed privileged. No such minister, priest, rabbi, or similar functionary shall disclose any communications made to him or her by any such person professing religious faith, seeking spiritual guidance, or seeking counseling, nor shall such minister, priest, rabbi, or similar functionary be competent or compellable to testify with reference to any such communication in any court (O.C.G.A 24-5-502).\n\nLouisiana's Supreme Court ruled in 2014 that a priest may be compelled to testify about what he was told in the confessional regarding a particular sexual abuse case, leaving the priest at risk of excommunication if he even confirms that a confession took place, or jail for contempt of court should he refuse to testify. However, the Court later ruled that a priest has no duty to report confidential information heard during a sacramental confession.\n\nThe status of priest–penitent privilege in English law has not been absolutely determined (see specific articles).\n\nTwo Canadian provinces recognize the privilege in the communications between individuals and their religious leaders in their statutes (Newfoundland under its Evidence Act and Quebec under its \" Charter of Human Rights and Freedoms\" ). Otherwise, religious communication is covered by common law.\n\nCanadian law descends from British common law, and as such the status of priest–penitent privilege is not well defined in national jurisprudence. \"R. v. Gruenke\" from 1991 is the leading Supreme Court of Canada case regarding this privilege. Religious communications are not presumptively (\"prima facie\") privileged.\n\nThe court establishes that a test, proposed by John Henry Wigmore, might be employed to determine whether a specific communication is privileged or not. The \"Wigmore Criteria\" are seen as a general framework, not a \"carved in stone\" approach. The \"Wigmore Criteria\" are generally used to determine if privilege covers communications that do not fall under the classic privileged communications such as solicitor-client privilege or spousal privilege.\n\nTo determine whether a communication is privileged, the \"Wigmore Criteria\" state that:\n\nThe \"Wigmore Criteria\" are informed by the Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms guarantee of freedom of religion (protected under s.2(a)) and the interpretive s.27 (\"This Charter shall be interpreted in a manner consistent with the preservation and enhancement of the multicultural heritage of Canadians.\")\n\nAs a result of s.27, the term \"religious communications\" is used in place of the more common \"priest–penitent\" term. Similarly, analysis should begin from a non-denominational approach.\n\nReligious freedom strengthens the argument in favour of recognition of the privilege for religious communications. However, religious communications are only privileged in particular cases when the Wigmore criteria are satisfied. While a formal confession process is not necessary, it can help in determining whether there is an expectation of privacy when evaluating the communication using the \"Wigmore Criteria.\"\n\nIn \"R. v. Gruenke\", it was found that the communications were not privileged because there was no expectation of privilege between Ms. Gruenke and her pastor and her religious counsellor.\n\nIn October 1999, it was reported that the Canadian government had opposed a plan to recognize the value of priest–penitient privilege within the bounds of international law.\n\nArticle 178 of Polish criminal code explicitly forbids calling a clergyman as a witness in order to disclose information he obtained during confession. Article 261 of Polish civil code allows clergymen to abstain from testifying informations he obtained during confession.\n\nMcNicol gives three arguments in favour of the privilege:\n\nJeremy Bentham, writing in the early years of the nineteenth century, devoted a whole chapter to serious, considered argument that Roman Catholic confession should be exempted from disclosure in judicial proceedings, even in Protestant countries, entitled: \"Exclusion of the Evidence of a Catholic Priest, respecting the confessions entrusted to him, proper\". Remarkably, Bentham was an opponent of professional privilege for the giving of legal advice. He noted:\n\nHe refers the reasons in favour of the exclusion to two headings:\n\nUnder the first heading he says that the effect of non-exclusion would be the decrease in the practice of confession, he said:\n\nThe whole chapter is exclusively limited to the claim for protection for the Catholic practice of confession.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50305640", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50305640", "title": "Programme for Economic Advancement and Community Empowerment", "text": "Programme for Economic Advancement and Community Empowerment\n\nProgramme for Economic Advancement and Community Empowerment (PEACE), is a four-year project funded by the European Union. and implemented by the Sarhad Rural Support Programme (SRSP). It was launched in 2013 in all districts of Malakand Division, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan, namely, Swat, Shangla, Buner, Lower Dir, Upper Dir, Chitral and Malakand Agency.\n\nThe Programme for Economic Advancement and Community Empowerment (PEACE) commenced after an agreement worth € 40 million was signed between the Sarhad Rural Support Programme (SRSP) and the European Union (EU). The project runs under the principles of financial sustainability and equitable sharing of benefits with the community for social development purposes.\n\nUnder the PEACE project 62% of the funding is utilised for generation of community run micro-hydro power units in the project areas. Hydro power stations under the project are primarily built in areas where there is no active national grid or where such grid stands disrupted. Communities contribute time and labour, known as \"sweat equity\", which creates a sense of ownership and helps sustain the projects. The MHPs are run as a social enterprise and its earnings are spent on the welfare of local communities, particularly women. Electricity is generated harnessing the small glacier-meltwater rivers that drop steeply off soaring mountains.\n\nThe European Union under the PEACE project has funded the Sarhad Rural Support Programme (SRSP) to set up 240 micro hydropower plants, in the Malakand Division. In general, PKR 4/unit is charged for domestic and PKR 7-10/unit is charged for commercial use.\n\nA significant portion of the funds are allocated to the building or restoration of basic infrastructure such as road, bridges, water channels etc.\n\nElectricity from hydro schemes cuts down the use of wood for cooking, heating and lighting, consequently reducing deforestation which is a huge problem in the region. The hydro schemes also cut greenhouse gas emissions, by virtually eliminating the use of kerosene lighting, cutting the use of diesel generators, and also reducing the use of unsustainable wood. A detailed breakdown has not been made of fuels replaced, but an indication of the significance can be made by assuming that the estimated 110,000 MWh of electricity generated each year replaces diesel generation producing around 0.8 tonnes of carbon dioxide per MWh. This suggests a substantial greenhouse gas saving of around 88,000 tonnes of carbon dioxide per year.\n\nPakistan is only producing 128 out of a potential of 3,100 MW of electricity from small hydropower projects.\n\nIn 2015 the Programme for Economic Advancement and Community Empowerment (PEACE) project earned the Sarhad Rural Support Programme (SRSP) an Ashden Award for Increasing Energy Access. In 2017 the project attracted the National Award given out by the Energy Globe Award in Pakistan for supplying electricity to off-grid areas. \n\n"}
{"id": "208645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=208645", "title": "Promulgation", "text": "Promulgation\n\nPromulgation is the formal proclamation or declaration that a new statutory or administrative law is enacted after its final approval. In some jurisdictions, this additional step is necessary before the law can take effect.\n\nAfter a new law is approved, it is announced to the public through the publication of government gazettes and/or on official government websites. National laws of extraordinary importance to the public may be announced by the head of state on national broadcast. Local laws are usually announced in local newspapers and published in bulletins or compendia of municipal regulations.\n\nBills are enacted by the President of Armenia and published in the \"Official Gazette of the Republic of Armenia\".\n\nStatutes are promulgated by the King of the Belgians and published in the \"Belgian Official Journal\". Decrees and Ordinances are promulgated by the different Regional and Community governments and published in the Belgian Official Journal.\n\nA canonical law issued by the Pope (or with his consent in the case of laws issued by an ecumenical council or congregation) is promulgated when it is published in \"Acta Apostolicae Sedis\", and by default has the force of law three months after promulgation. Laws issued by bishops and particular councils are promulgated in various ways but by default take effect one month after promulgation. \n\nAccording to Canon 7 of the 1983 Code of Canon Law, \"Lex instituitur cum promulgatur\" (\"A law is instituted when it is promulgated\"). This is an ancient provision in Latin-rite canon law, dating in its plural form to the Latin formulation of the great twelfth-century codifier of canon law, Gratian: \"Leges instituuntur cum promulgantur\" (\"Laws are instituted when they are promulgated\").\n\nThe President of France promulgates law (he may ask Parliament to reconsider the law, but only once).\n\nThe President of Germany has the duty to duly promulgate and issue laws, unless the President deems them \"evidently unconstitutional\". The question to what degree they must be convinced of the constitutional violation to deny promulgation is hotly debated.\n\nBills have to be signed and promulgated by the Chief Executive, and be announced by the government in the gazette.\n\nLaws have to be promulgated by the President of the Republic and must be published afterwards in the Magyar Közlöny, which is the national gazette.\n\nIf at any time the Indian Parliament is not in session, the President of India may promulgate an ordinance, which will have the same effect as an Act. However, such ordinance will be presented before the parliament for final approval.\n\nAll laws passed by the Oireachtas are promulgated by a notice in the \"Iris Oifigiúil\" published by the President of Ireland, as required by the Constitution of Ireland.\n\nBy ancient custom an Act of Tynwald, the legislature of the island, did not come into force until it had been \"promulgated\" at an open-air sitting of Tynwald, usually held on Tynwald Hill at St John's on St John's Day (24 June) but since the adoption of the Gregorian calendar in 1753 on 5 July (or on the following Monday if 5 July is a Saturday or Sunday). Promulgation originally consisted of the reading of the Act in English and Manx, but after 1865 the reading of the title of the Act and a summary of each section were sufficient. This was reduced in 1895 to the titles and a memorandum of the object and purport of the Act, and since 1988 only the short title and a summary of the long title have been read. An emergency procedure enabling an Act to come into force on royal assent being announced at an ordinary sitting of Tynwald, subject to its being promulgated within 12 months, was introduced in 1916; since 1976 this has been the 'default' procedure, and since 1988 an Act ceases to have effect unless promulgated within 18 months after royal assent is announced in Tynwald.\n\nThe President of the Republic promulgates law. The President remands a law to the Chambers of Parliament, with an explanation, and asks for reconsideration—but must promulgate the law if it is re-approved without modification.\n\nThe Emperor of Japan promulgates laws passed by the Diet. The Emperor cannot refuse to promulgate a law.\n\nPromulgation is performed by the President.\n\nArticle 34 of the constitution of Luxembourg requires the grand duke or duchess to \"promulgate\" a new law for it to take effect.\n\nBills have to approved by the Legislative Assembly, signed and promulgated by the Chief Executive. They must be published in the Official Gazette \"Boletim Oficial\".\n\nWhen a bill is approved by the House of Representatives of Malta, it is presented to the President of Malta for his assent. According to constitutional obligation he shall without delay signify that he assents and hence promulgate the said Bill into a Parliamentary Act. The Parliamentary Act is then published in the \"Malta Government Gazette\", and thus comes into force.\n\nA law is approved by Congress, signed by the President, and published in the Official Diary of the Federation (), or DOF. Each law in its Transitional Articles (\"Transitorios\") states when the Law takes effect (\"entra en vigor\") and, when applicable, what law it cancels and replaces. Regulations are prepared by the Executive branch in order to establish the administration of the Law. They are signed by the President and published in the DOF.\n\nLaws have to be promulgated by the President of the Republic in the \"Dziennik Ustaw\" journal. The President may refer to the Constitutional Tribunal; if he has not made reference, he may refer the bill to the Sejm (veto) for further reconsideration. The bill shall then be\n\nThe laws (statutes issued by the Parliament) and the decree-laws (statutes issued by the Government) have to be promulgated by the President of Portugal to take effect. The promulgation is the act by which the President solemnly testifies the existence of a rule of law and intimates its observation. The President may however decide not to promulgate the bill and to veto it with a political or legal justification. After the promulgation, the statutes are published in the \"Diário da República\" (official journal), with the laws needing a Government referenda before.\n\nBills have to be promulgated by the President and afterwards published in the official gazette, \"Monitorul Oficial\".\n\nArticle 91 of the Spanish Constitution establishes that bills, upon being passed by the \"Cortes Generales\", must be sanctioned (i.e., given royal assent) by the King of Spain within two weeks of their passing. The King will then promulgate and immediately publish them in the official gazette, the \"Boletín Oficial del Estado\".\n\nLaws and secondary legislation are promulgated by the Government of Sweden and are published in the Swedish Code of Statutes ().\n\nBills are promulgated by President of the Republic and published in the official gazette, \"Resmi Gazete\".\n\nActs of Parliament, in the United Kingdom are promulgated when given royal assent by the Queen. The sovereign may appear personally in the House of Lords or may appoint Lords Commissioners, who announce that royal assent has been granted at a ceremony held at the Palace of Westminster for this purpose. However, royal assent is usually granted less ceremonially by letters patent.\n\nActs of Congress are given the force of law, in one of the following ways: signed by the President of the United States; neither signed nor vetoed by the President within ten days from reception (excluding Sundays) while the Congress is in session; or, when both the Senate and the House of Representatives vote, by a two-thirds majority in each chamber, to override a presidential veto during its session. In United States administrative law, a federal regulation may be said to be formally promulgated when it appears in the \"Federal Register\" and after the public-comment period concludes.\n\nAmendments to the United States Constitution attain force of law \"when ratified by the legislatures of three fourths of the several states, or by conventions in three fourths thereof, as the one or the other mode of ratification may be proposed by the Congress\". When the requisite number of state ratifications has been reached (currently 38), it is the duty of the Archivist of the United States to issue a certificate proclaiming a particular amendment duly ratified and part of the Constitution.\n"}
{"id": "32920094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32920094", "title": "Prussian Reform Movement (1806–1815)", "text": "Prussian Reform Movement (1806–1815)\n\nThe Prussian Reform Movement was a series of constitutional, administrative, social and economic reforms early in the nineteenth-century Kingdom of Prussia. They are sometimes known as the Stein-Hardenberg Reforms, for Karl Freiherr vom Stein and Karl August Fürst von Hardenberg, their main initiators. Before the Second World War, German historians, such as Heinrich von Treitschke, saw the reforms as the first steps towards the unification of Germany and the foundation of the German Empire.\n\nThe reforms were a reaction to the defeat of the Prussians by Napoleon I at Jena-Auerstedt in 1806, leading to the second Treaty of Tilsit, in which Prussia lost about half its territory and was forced to make massive tribute payments to France. To make those payments, it needed to rationalize its administration. Prussia's defeat and subjection also demonstrated the weaknesses of its absolute monarchy model of statehood and excluded it from the great powers of Europe.\n\nTo become a great power again, it initiated reforms from 1807 onwards, based on Enlightenment ideas and in line with reforms in other European nations. They led to the reorganization of Prussia's government and administration and changes in its agricultural trade regulations, including the abolition of serfdom and allowing peasants to become landowners. In industry, the reforms aimed to encourage competition by suppressing the monopoly of guilds. The administration was decentralised and the nobility's power reduced. There were also parallel military reforms led by Gerhard von Scharnhorst, August Neidhardt von Gneisenau and Hermann von Boyen and educational reforms headed by Wilhelm von Humboldt. Gneisenau made it clear that all these reforms were part of a single programme when he stated that Prussia had to put its foundations in \"the three-faced primacy of arms, knowledge and the constitution\".\n\nIt is harder to ascertain when the reforms ended – in the fields of the constitution and internal politics in particular, the year 1819 marked a turning point, with Restoration tendencies gaining the upper hand over constitutional ones. Though the reforms undoubtedly modernised Prussia, their successes were mixed, with results that were against the reformers' original wishes. The agricultural reforms freed some peasants, but the liberalisation of landholding condemned many of them to poverty. The nobility saw its privileges reduced but its overall position reinforced.\n\nIn 1803, German Mediatisation profoundly changed the political and administrative map of Germany. Favourable to mid-ranking states and to Prussia, the reorganisation reinforced French influence. In 1805, the Third Coalition formed in the hope of stopping French domination of Europe from advancing further, but the coalition's armies were defeated at Austerlitz in December 1805. Triumphant, Napoleon I continued working towards dismantling the Holy Roman Empire. On 12 July 1806, he detached 16 German states from it to form the Confederation of the Rhine under French influence. On 6 August the same year, Francis I of Austria was forced to renounce his title of emperor, and the Empire had to be dissolved.\n\nFrench influence reached as far as the Prussian frontier by the time Frederick William III of Prussia realised the situation. Encouraged by the United Kingdom, Prussia broke off its neutrality (in force since 1795) and repudiated the 1795 Peace of Basel, joined the Fourth Coalition and entered the war against France. Prussia mobilised its troops on 9 August 1806 but two months later was defeated at Jena-Auerstedt. Prussia was on the verge of collapse, and three days after the defeat Frederick William III issued posters appealing to the inhabitants of his capital Berlin to remain calm. Ten days later, Napoleon entered Berlin.\n\nThe war ended on 7 July 1807 with the first Treaty of Tilsit between Napoleon and Alexander I of Russia. Two days later, Napoleon signed a second Treaty of Tilsit with Prussia, removing half its territory and forcing Prussia's king to recognise Jérôme Bonaparte as sovereign of the newly created Kingdom of Westphalia, to which Napoleon annexed the Prussian territories west of the river Elbe. Prussia had had 9 million inhabitants in 1805, of which it lost 4.55 million in the treaty. It was also forced to pay 120 million francs to France in war indemnities and fund a French occupying force of 150,000 troops.\n\nThe biting defeat of 1806 was not only the result of poor decisions and Napoleon's military genius, but also a reflection on Prussia's poor internal structures. In the 18th century the Prussian state had been the model of enlightened despotism for the rest of Germany. To the west and south, there was no single state or alliance that could challenge it. Yet in the era of Frederick II of Prussia it was a country oriented towards reform, beginning with the abolition of torture in 1740.\nThe economic reforms of the second half of the 18th century were based on a mercantilist logic. They had to allow Prussia a certain degree of self-sufficiency and give it sufficient surpluses for export. Joseph Rovan emphasises that Economic development also had to fund and support the military. Prussia's infrastructure was developed in the form of canals, roads and factories. Roads connected its outlying regions to its centre, the Oder, Warta and Noteć marshes were reclaimed and farmed and apple-growing was developed.\n\nHowever, industry remained very limited, with heavy state-control. Trades were organised into monopolistic guilds and fiscal and customs laws were complex and inefficient. After the defeat of 1806, funding the occupation force and the war indemnities put Prussia's economy under pressure. As in the 18th century, the early 19th century reforms aimed to create budgetary margins, notably in their efforts towards economic development.\n\nFrederick II of Prussia favoured both economic and political reform. His government worked on the first codification of Prussia's laws – the 19,000 paragraph \"Allgemeines Landrecht für die preußischen Staaten\" (literally the \"General legal code for the Prussia states\"). Article 22 indicated that all his subjects were equal before the law: . However, Frederick died in 1786 leaving the code incomplete and was succeeded by Frederick William II of Prussia, who extended the same administrative structure and the same civil servants.\n\nThe absolutist system started to re-solidify under the obscurantist influence of Johann Christoph von Wöllner, financial privy councillor to Frederick William II. The reforms stalled, especially in the field of modernising society. The editing of the \"Allgemeines Landrecht\" was completed in 1792, but the French Revolution led to opposition to it, especially from the nobility. It was then withdrawn from circulation for revision and did not come back into force until 1794. Its aims included linking the state and middle class society to the law and to civil rights, but at the same time it retained and confirmed the whole structure of the Ancien Régime. Serfdom, for example, was abolished in Prussia's royal domains but not in the estates of the great landowners east of the river Elbe. The nobility also held onto its position in the army and administration.\n\nIn 1797 Frederick William III succeeded his father Frederick William II, but at the time of his accession he found society dominated by the old guard, apart from the \"Allgemeines Landrecht\" promulgated in 1794. His own idea of the state was absolutist and he considered that the state had to be in the hands of the sovereign. Before 1806, several observers and high-level civil servants such as Heinrich Friedrich Karl vom Stein and Karl August von Hardenberg underlined the fact that the Prussia state needed restructuring. As Minister of Finances and the Economy, Stein put some reforms in place, such as standardising the price of salt (then a state monopoly) and partially abolishing the export-import taxes between the kingdom's territories. In April 1806, he published \"Darstellung der fehlerhaften Organisation des Kabinetts und der Notwendigkeit der Bildung einer Ministerialkonferenz\" (literally \"Exposé on the imperfect organisation of the cabinet and on the necessity of forming a ministerial conference\"). In it, he wrote: .\n\nPrussia's war against Napoleon revealed the gaps in its state organisation. Pro-war and a strong critic of his sovereign's policies, Stein was dismissed in January 1807 after the defeat by France. However, Frederick William III saw that the Prussian state and Prussian society could only survive if they began to reform. After the treaty of Tislsit, he recalled Stein as a minister on 10 July 1807 with the backing of Hardenberg and Napoleon, the latter of whom saw in Stein a supporter of France. Queen Louise of Mecklenburg-Strelitz also supported Stein's re-appointment – indeed, she was more in favour of reform than her husband and was its main initiator. Aided by Stein, Hardenberg and others, she had convinced her husband to mobilise in 1806 and in 1807 she had even met with Napoleon to demand that he review the hard conditions imposed in the treaty. Hardenberg wrote the same year: \n\nStein set certain conditions for his taking the job, among which was that the cabinets system should be abolished. In its place, ministers had to win their right to power by speaking to the king directly. After this condition had been satisfied, Stein took up his role and was thus directly responsible for the civil administration as well as exercising a controlling role over the other areas. Frederick William III still showed little inclination to engage in reforms and hesitated for a long while. The reformers thus had to expend much effort convincing the king. In this situation, it was within the bureaucracy and the army that the reformers had to fight the hardest against the nobility and the conservative and restorationist forces. The idealist philosophy of Immanuel Kant thus had a great influence on the reformers – Stein and Hardenberg each produced a treatise describing their ideas in 1807.\n\nAfter his recall, Stein retired to his lands in Nassau. In 1807, he published the \"Nassauer Denkschrift\", whose main argument was the reform of the administration. In contrast to the reforms in the states of the Confederation of the Rhine, Stein's approach was traditionalist and above all anti-Enlightenment, focussing instead on critiquing absolutism. Stein followed English models such as the Glorious Revolution of 1688 and was sceptical of a centralised and militarised bureaucracy, favouring a decentralised and collegiate administration. With his collaborators, he followed (in his own words) a \"policy of defensive modernisation, not with Napoleon but against him\".\n\nAccording to Stein, the administration should be split up by field and no longer by geographical area. Thus the administration had to be divided into two branches – the public revenue branch and the top-level state-policy branch (\"oberste Staatsbehörde\"). One of the main aims of this concept was to rationalise the state financial system to raise the money to meet its war indemnities under the treaty of Tilsit. Rationalising the state finances would allow the state to raise revenue but limit losses due to poor administrative organisation.\n\nStein was an anti-absolutist and an anti-statist, suspicious of bureaucracy and central government. For him, civil servants were only men paid to carry out their task with \"indifference\" and \"fear of innovation\". Above all, he set out to decentralise and form a collegiate state. Stein thus gave more autonomy to the provinces, Kreise and towns. Thanks to the different posts he had previously held, Stein, realised that he had to harmonise the government of the provinces. He had recourse to the old corporative constitution, as he had experienced in Westphalia. The landowner, according to Stein, was the keystone to local self-government – \"If the landowner is excluded from all participation in the provincial administration, then the link which links him to the fatherland remains unused\".\n\nHowever, it was not only functional considerations which played a role for Stein. He felt he first had to educate the people in politics and provincial self-government was one of the most useful things in this area. On landowners' participation in the provincial administration, he wrote In his reform projects, Stein tried to reform a political system without losing sight of the Prussian unity shaken by the defeat of 1806.\n\nStein and Hardenberg not only made a mark on later policy but also represented two different approaches to politics, with Hardenberg more steeped in Enlightenment ideas. He took the principles of the French Revolution and the suggestions created by Napoleon's practical policy on board more deeply than Stein. Hardenberg was a statist who aspired to reinforce the state through a dense and centralised administration. Nevertheless, these differences only represented a certain change of tendency among the reformers. The initiatives put in place were very much things of their own time, despite the latter umbrella concept of the 'Stein-Hardenberg reforms'.\n\nThe \"Rigaer Denkschrift\" was published the same year as Stein's work and presented on 12 September 1807. It bore the title 'On the reorganisation of the Prussian state'. Previously living in Riga, Hardenberg had been summoned in July by the king of Prussia under pressure from Napoleon. Hardenberg developed ideas on the overall organisation of the Prussian state that were different from those of his fellow reformers. The main editors of the \"Rigaer Denkschrift\" were Barthold Georg Niebuhr, an expert financier, Karl vom Stein zum Altenstein, a future minister of Finances and Heinrich Theodor von Schön. These three men concluded that the Revolution had given France a new impetus: \"All the sleeping forces were re-awakened, the misery and weakness, the old prejudices and the shortcomings were destroyed.\" Thus, in their view, Prussia had to follow France's example: \nThe authors thus favoured a revolution \"im guten Sinn\" or \"in the right sense\", which historians later described as \"revolution from above\". Sovereigns and their ministers thus put in place reforms to gain all the advantages of a revolution without any of the disadvantages, such as losing their power or suffering from setbacks or outbreaks of violence.\n\nAs in Stein's Denkschrift, the \"Rigaer Denkschrift\" favours reviving national spirit to work with the nation and the administration. Hardenberg also sought to define society's three classes – the nobility, the middle class and the peasants. For him, the peasants took part in \"the most numerous and most important but nevertheless the most neglected and belittled class in the state\" and added that \"the peasant class has to become the main object of our attention\". Hardenberg also sought to underline the principal of merit which he felt had to rule in society, by affirming \"no task in the state, without exception, is for this or that class but is open to merit and to skill and to the ability of all classes\".\n\nWithin fourteen months of his appointment, Stein put in place or prepared the most important reforms. The major financial crisis caused by the requirements of Tilsit forced Stein into a radical austerity policy, harnessing the state's machinery to raise the required indemnities. The success of the reforms begun by Stein was the result of a discussion already going on within the upper bureaucracy and Stein's role in putting them in place was variable – he was almost never, for example, involved in questions of detail. Many of the reforms were drafted by others among his collaborators, such as Heinrich Theodor von Schön in the case of the October decree. However, Stein was responsible for presenting the reforms to the king and to other forces opposed to them, such as the nobility.\nDuring Stein's short period of office, decisive laws were promulgated, even if the organizational law on state administration was not published until 1808 (i.e. after Stein's fall). It was during Stein's time in office that the edict of October 1807 and the cities' organizational reforms (\"Städteordnung\") of 1808 were put into effect. After a short term of office by Karl vom Stein zum Altenstein, Hardenberg regained control of policy. From 1810, he bore the title of \"Staatskanzler\", retaining it until 1822. Thanks to him, land reform was completed via the Edicts of Regulation (\"Regulierungsedikten\") of 1811 and 1816 as well as the \"Ablöseordnung\" (literally the \"redemption decree\") of 1821. He also pushed through the reforms of trades such as the edict on professional tax of 2 November 1810 and the law on policing trades (\"Gewerbepolizeigesetz\") of 1811. In 1818 he reformed the customs laws, abolishing internal taxes. As for social reform, the edict of emancipation was promulgated in 1812 for Jewish citizens. Despite the different initial situations and aims pursued, similar reforms were carried out in the states of the Confederation of the Rhine, except for the military and educational reforms. The Restoration tendencies put a stop to the reformist policy in Prussia around 1819 or 1820.\n\nThe reforms which were to be put in place were essentially a synthesis between historic and progressive concepts. Their aim was to replace the absolutist state structures which had become outdated. The state would have to offer its citizens the possibility of becoming involved in public affairs on the basis of personal freedom and equality before the law. The government's main policy aim was to make it possible to liberate Prussian territory from French occupation and return the kingdom to great-power status through modernising domestic policy.\n\nThe Prussian subject had to become an active citizen of the state thanks to the introduction of self-government to the provinces, districts (\"kreise\") and towns. National sentiment had to be awakened as Stein foresaw in his Nassau work, but a citizen's duties were in some ways more important than his or her rights. Moreover, Stein's concept of self-government rested on a class-based society. A compromise between corporative aspects and a modern representative system was put in place. The old divisions into the three estates of nobility, clergy and bourgeoisie were replaced by divisions into nobility, bourgeoisie and peasants. The right to vote also had to be expanded, particularly to free peasants, which would be one of the bases for the freeing of the peasants in 1807.\n\nThe new organisation of power in the countryside and reform of industry were factors in the liberalisation of the Prussian economy. In this respect, the Prussian reforms went much further than those in the states of the Confederation of the Rhine and were much more successful. The 1806 financial crisis, intensified by the indemnities, the occupation costs and other war costs, gave the necessary impetus for these changes – in all, Prussia had to pay France 120 million francs. The freeing of the peasants, the industrial reforms and the other measures removed economic barriers and imposed free competition. The Prussian reforms relied on the economic liberalism of Adam Smith (as propounded by Heinrich Theodor von Schön and Christian Jakob Kraus) more heavily than the south German reformers. The Prussian reformers did not actively seek to encourage Prussian industry, which was then under-developed, but to remedy the crisis in the agricultural economy.\n\nThe reformers' top priority was to reorganise the administration and the state. Before 1806, there was not really a single Prussian state, but a multiplicity of states and provinces, mostly only held together by the single person of the king himself. There was no unified administration – instead there were the two parallel structures of decentralised administrations (each responsible for all portfolios within a single given territory) and a centralised administration (responsible for a single portfolio across the whole of Prussia). This double structure made any coordinated action difficult. The government also had no overview of Prussia's economic situation and its government ministers had little clout faced with the king's cabinet, where they had less power than the king's private political councillors.\n\nThe start of the Stein era saw the unification of the Prussian state, with the old system of cabinets being abolished. A ministry of state (\"Staatsministerium\") was introduced on 16 December 1808 in place of a top-level administration poorly defined as the \"Generaldirektorium\". This reform was completed in 1810. Now the administration was ruled according to the principle of portfolios. The \"Staatsministerium\" included five major ministries – minister of the interior, minister for foreign affairs, minister for finances, minister for justice and minister of war, all responsible to the king alone. These modifications could not take full effect, however, until a more effective statist model of leadership was created. This was done by replacing Prussian absolutism with a double domination of king and bureaucracy, in which the ministers had an important role, reducing the king's influence and meaning he could now only reign through his ministers' actions. In Stein's era, the \"Staatsministerium\" was organised in a collegiate way without a prime minister – that post was set up under Hardenberg, who received the title of \"Staatskanzler\" or State Chancellor in June 1810 along with control over the ministers' relations with the king.\n\nThe role of the head of state was also considerably modified. From 1808, Prussia was divided into districts. The different governments of these districts were set up according to the principle of portfolios, as with the national ministers of state. Each region was given an \"Oberpräsident\" for the first time, directly subordinate to the national ministers and with the role of stimulating public affairs. Their rôle, which even went as far as putting up sanitary cordons in the event of an epidemic, was similar to that of French prefects – that is, to represent regional interests to the central government. The post was abolished in 1810 but revived in 1815 to play an important part in political life. It was in this context that justice and administration were separated once and for all. On the establishment of administrative acts, the people concerned thus had a right of appeal. Nevertheless, there was no judicial control on the administration. Aiming to reduce any influence on the administration, this was reinforced by different administrative acts. The organisation that the reformers put in place served as a model for other German states and to major businesses.\n\nIn parallel to the \"Staatsministerium\", Stein planned the creation of a \"Staatsrat\" or Privy Council. However, he had had no opportunity to set up a correctly functioning one by 1808 and it was Hardenberg who set it up in 1810. The text of the relevant law stated: The members of the Council of State had to be current ministers or former ministers, high-level civil servants, princes of the royal house or figures nominated by the king. A commission was also formed to function as a kind of parliament, with major legislative rights. As a bastion of the bureaucracy, the Council of State had to prevent any return to absolutism or any moves to reinforce the interests of the Ancien Régime. The Council of State also had to subroge all laws and administrative and constitutional procedures.\n\nIn the same way as the towns' self-government, Hardenberg foresaw the establishment of a national representative body made up of corporative and representative elements. The first assembly of notable figures was held in 1811 and the second in 1812. These were made up of a corporative base of 18 aristocratic landowners, 12 urban property owners and nine representatives from among the peasants. This corporative composition was based partly on the traditional conception of society and partly on practical and fiscal considerations – in order to be able to pay its war indemnities to France, the Prussian state had to have massive recourse to credit contracts issued by the aristocrats and to gain credit in foreign countries the different states had to offer themselves as guarantors.\n\nAfter the summoning of the provisional assemblies, it quickly became clear that their deputies' first priority was not the state's interests but more defending their own classes' interests. The nobility saw the reforms as trying to reduce their privileges and so blocked them in the assemblies, led by figures such as Friedrich August von der Marwitz and Friedrich Ludwig Karl Fink von Finkenstein. Their resistance went so far that the cabinet even resorted to imprisoning them at Spandau. The historian Reinhart Koselleck has argued that the establishment of a corporative national representative body prevented all later reforms. At the end of the reforming period, the districts and the provincial representative bodies (such as the \"Provinziallandtage\") remained based on corporative principles. Prussia was prevented from forming a true representative national body, with considerable consequences on the internal development of Prussia and the German Confederation. Thus, while the states of the Confederation of the Rhine located in southern Germany became constitutional states, Prussia remained without a parliament until 1848.\n\nPrior to the reforms the Prussian towns east of the river Elbe were under the state's direct control, with any surviving instances of self-government retaining their names and forms but none of their power. Stein's reform of the towns used this former tradition of self-government. All rights specific to a certain city were abolished and all the cities put under the same structures and rule – this even came to be the case for their courts and police. Self-government was at the centre of the town reforms of 1808, with the towns now no longer subject to the state and their citizens given a duty to participate in the towns' political life. This was the strongest indication of Stein's rejection of a centralised bureaucracy – self-government had to awaken its citizens' interest in public affairs in order to benefit the whole Prussian state.\n\nThe \"Städteordnung\" (Municipal Ordinance) of 1808 defined a citizen (or at least a citizen in the sense of the inhabitant of a town or city) as \"a citizen or member of an urban community which possesses the right of citizenship in a town\". The municipal councillors were representatives of the town and not of an order or estate. These councillors could be elected by all landowning citizens with a taxable revenue of at least 15 taler. A councillor's main task was to participate in the election of a municipal council or \"Magistrat\", headed by a mayor. The election of the mayor and the members of the council had to be ratified by the central government. Different officials were put in place to carry out administrative portfolios. The council managed the municipal budget and the town also managed its own police.\n\nDespite some democratic elements, the town administrations retained large corporative elements – the groups were differentiated according to their estates and only citizens had full rights. Only landowners and industrial property-owners had a right to citizenship, though it was in principle also open to other people, such as \"Eximierten\" (bourgeois people, mostly those in state service) or \"Schutzverwandten\" (members of the lower classes without full citizenship rights). The costs linked to a citizen's octroi dissuaded many people. It was only the new reform of 1831 which replaced the 1808 assemblies of \"Bürger\" (citizens) with assemblies of inhabitants. Until the Vormärz, self-government in the towns was in the hands of artisans and established businessmen. In the cities and large towns, the citizens with full rights and their families represented around a third of the total population. Resistance by the nobility prevented these reforms from also being set up in the countryside. These reforms were a step towards modern civic self-government.\n\nTax reform was a central problem for the reformers, notably due to the war indemnities imposed by Napoleon, and these difficulties marked Hardenberg's early reforms. He managed to avoid state bankruptcy and inflation by increasing taxes or selling off lands. These severe financial problems led to a wholesale fiscal reform. Taxes were standardised right across Prussia, principally by replacing the wide variety of minor taxes with main taxes. The reformers also tried to introduce equal taxation for all citizens, thus bringing them into conflict with aristocratic privileges. On 27 October 1810, the king proclaimed in his \"Finanzedikt\":\nExcises were raised the following year on appeals.\n\nIn 1819, excise (originally only raised by the towns) was suppressed and replaced with a tax on the consumption of beer, wine, gin and tobacco. In the industrial sphere, several taxes were replaced with a progressively spread-out professional tax. Other innovations were an income tax and a tax on wealth based on a tax evaluation carried out by the taxpayer. 1820 saw protests against a tax on classes, the tax being defined by the taxpayer's position in society. This tax on classes was an intermediate form between poll tax and income tax. The towns had the possibility of retaining the tax on cattle and cereal crops. The results for fiscal policy remain controversial. The nobility was not affected by the taxes as the reformers had originally planned, so much so that they did not managed to put in place a 'foncier' tax also including the nobility. The poorest suffered most as a result of these measures.\nIt was only after the end of the Napoleonic Wars and after the territorial reorganisation of Europe at the Congress of Vienna that Prussia's customs duties were reformed. At the Congress Prussia regained its western territories, leading to economic competition between the industrialised part of these territories such as the Rhine Province, the Province of Westphalia and the territories in Saxony on the one hand and the essentially agricultural territories to the east of the Elbe on the other. Customs policy was also very disparate. Thus, in 1817, there were 57 customs tariffs on 3,000 goods passing from the historic western territories to the Prussian heartland, with the taxes in the heartland not yet having spread to the formerly French-dominated western provinces.\n\nThis was one of the factors that made customs reform vital. That reform occurred on 26 May 1818, with the establishment of a compromise between the interest of the major landowners practicing free-exchange and those of the still-weak industrial economy asking for protectionist custom duties. They therefore only took on what would now be called a tax for protecting internal markets from foreign competition and customs duties for haulage were lifted. The mercantile policy instituted by Frederick II thus came to an end. Export bans were lifted. The customs laws and duties put in place by the reformers proved so simple and effective over time that they served as a model for taxation in other German states for around fifty years and that their basic principles remained in place under the German Empire. The Prussian customs policy was one of the important factors in the creation of the Deutscher Zollverein in the 1830s.\n\nAgriculture was reformed across Europe at this time, though in different ways and in different phases. The usefulness of existing agricultural methods came into doubt and so the Ancien Régime's and Holy Roman Empire's agricultural structures were abolished. Peasants were freed and became landowners; and services and corvées were abolished. Private landownership also led to the breakdown of common lands – that is, to the usage of woods and meadows 'in common'. These communal lands were mostly given to lords in return for lands acquired by the peasants. Some meadow reforms had already taken place in some parts of Prussia before 1806, such as the freeing of the peasants on royal lands in the 18th century, though this freeing only fully came into force in 1807.\n\nThe landowning nobility successfully managed to oppose similar changes. The government had to confront aristocratic resistance even to the pre-1806 reforms, which became considerable. The \"Gesindeordnung\" of 1810 was certainly notable progress for servants compared to that proposed in the \"Allgemeines Landrecht\", but still remained conservative and favourable to the nobility. The nobility's opposition to this also led to several privileges being saved from abolition. The rights of the police and the courts were controlled more strongly by the state, but not totally abolished like religious and scholarly patrongage, hunting rights and fiscal privileges. Unlike the reforms in the Kingdom of Bavaria, the nobles were not asked to justify their rank. The reformers made compromises, but the nobility were unable to block the major changes brought by the reforms' central points.\n\nThe freeing of the peasants marked the start of the Prussian reforms. The kingdom's modernisation began by modernising its base, that is, its peasants and its agriculture. At the start of the 19th century, 80% of the German population lived in the countryside. The edict of 9 October 1807, one of the central reforms, liberated the peasants and was signed only five days after Stein's appointment on von Schön's suggestion. The October edict began the process of abolishing serfdom and its hereditary character. The first peasants to be freed were those working on the domains in the \"Reichsritter\" and on 11 November 1810 at the latest, all the Prussian serfs were declared free: However, though serfdom was abolished, corvées were not – the October edict said nothing on the latter subject.\n\nThe October edict authorised all Prussian citizens to acquire property and choose their profession, including the nobles, who until then could not take on jobs reserved for the bourgeoisie: The principle of \"dérogeance\" disappeared.\n\nThe peasants were allowed to travel freely and set up home in the towns and no longer had to buy their freedom or pay for its with domestic service. The peasants no longer had to ask their lord's permission to marry – this freedom in marriage led to a rising birth rate and population in the countryside. The freeing of the peasants, however, was also to their disadvantage – lordly domains were liberalised and major landowners were allowed to buy peasants' farms (the latter practice having been illegal previously). The lords no longer had an obligation to provide housing for any of their former serfs who became invalids or too old to work. This all led to the formation of an economic class made up of bourgeois and noble entrepreneurs who opposed the bourgeoisie.\n\nAfter the reformers freed the peasants, they were faced with other problems, such as the abolition of corvées and the establishment of properties. According to the \"Allgemeines Landrecht\", these problems could only be solved by compensating the financiers. The need to legally put in place a \"revolution from above\" slowed down the reforms.\n\nThe edict of regulation of 1811 solved the problem by making all peasants the owners of the farms they farmed. In place of buying back these lands (which was financially impossible), the peasants were obliged to compensate their former lords by handing over between a third and a half of the farmed lands. To avoid splitting up the lands and leaving areas that were too small to viably farm, in 1816 the buy-back of these lands was limited to major landowners. The smaller ones remained excluded from allodial title. Other duties linked to serfdom, such as that to provide domestic service and the payment of authorisation taxes on getting married, were abolished without compensation. As for corvées and services in kind, the peasants had to buy back from their lords for 25% of their value.\nThe practical compensations in Prussia were without doubt advantageous compared to the reforms put in place in the states of the Confederation of the Rhine. In effect, they allowed the process of reform to be accelerated. Nevertheless, the 12,000 lordly estates in Prussia saw their area increase to reach around 1.5 million Morgen (around 38,000 hectares), mostly made up of common lands, of which only 14% returned to the peasants, with the rest going to the lords. Many of the minor peasants thus lost their means of subsistence and most could only sell their indebted lands to their lords and become agricultural workers. Some jachère lands were made farmable, but their cultivation remained questionable due to their poor soil quality. The measures put in place by the reformers did have some financial success, however, with Prussia's cultivated land rising from 7.3 to 12.46 million hectares in 1848 and production raised by 40%.\n\nIn the territories east of the Elbe, the agricultural reforms had major social consequences. Due to the growth of lordly estates, the number of lordly families rose greatly, right up until the second half of the 19th century. The number of exploited lands remained the same. A very important lower social class was also created. According to region and the rights in force, the number of agricultural day workers and servants rose 2.5 times. The number of minor landowners, known as \"Kätner\" after their homes (known as \"Kotten\"), tripled or even quadrupled. Many of them were dependent on another job. Ernst Rudolf Huber, professor of public law, judged that the agricultural reforms were \n\nThe reformers aspired to free individual forces in the industrial sphere just as in the agricultural one, in their devotion to the theories of Adam Smith. To free these forces, they had to get rid of guilds and an economic policy based on mercantilism. To encourage free competition also meant the suppression of all limitations on competition.\n\nIt was in this context that the freedom of industry (\"Gewerbefreiheit\") was introduced in 1810–1811. To set up an industry, one had to acquire a licence, but even so there were exceptions, such as doctors, pharmacists and hotelliers. The guilds lost their monopoly role and their economic privileges. They were not abolished, but membership of them was now voluntary, not compulsory as it had been in the past. State control over the economy also disappeared, to give way to a free choice of profession and free competition. The reform of industry unlocked the economy and gave it a new impetus. There was no longer any legal difference in the industrial sphere between the town and the countryside. Only mining remained as an exception until the 1860s.\n\nOriginally planned to encourage rural industry, the freedom of industry became the central condition for Prussian economic renewal on an industrial base. As had happened with the nobility, the citizens of the towns arose unsuccessfully opposed the reforms. Their immediate results were contradictory—early on, non-guild competition was weak, but after a period of adaptation the number of non-guild artisans rose significantly. However, in the countryside, the burdens of the artisans and other industries rose considerably. This rise in the number of artisans was not accompanied by a similar growth in the rest of the population. The number of master-craftsmen rose too, but master-craftsmen remained poor due to the strong competition. During the Vormärz, tailors, cobblers, carpenters and weavers were the main over-subscribed trades. The rise in the lower classes in the countryside accentuated the 'social question and would be one of the causes of the 1848 Revolution.\n\nBy the Edict of Emancipation of 11 March 1812, Jews gained the same rights and duties as other citizens:\n\nArticle 8 of the Edict allowed Jews to own land and take up municipal and university posts. The Jews were free to practise their religion and their traditions were protected. Nevertheless, unlike the reforms in the Kingdom of Westphalia, the Edict of Emancipation in Prussia did have some limitations – Jews could not become army officers or have any government or legal role, but were still required to do military service.\n\nEven if some traditionalists opposed the Edict of Emancipation, it proved a major step towards Jewish emancipation in the German states during the 19th century. The judicial situation in Prussia was significantly better than that in most of southern and eastern Germany, making it an attractive destination for Jewish immigration.\n\nFor the reformers, the reform of the Prussian education system (\"Bildung\") was a key reform. All the other reforms relied on creating a new type of citizen who had to be capable of proving themselves responsible and the reformers were convinced that the nation had to be educated and made to grow up. Unlike the state reforms, which still contained corporative elements, the \"Bildungsreform\" was conceived outside all class structures. Wilhelm von Humboldt was the main figure behind the educational reform. From 1808, he was in charge of the department of religion and education within the ministry of the interior. Like Stein, Humboldt was only in his post for a short time, but was able to put in place the main elements of his reforms.\n\nHumboldt developed his ideas in July 1809 in his treatise \"Über die mit dem Königsberger Schulwesen vorzunehmende Reformen\" (\"On reforms to execute with the teaching in Königsberg\"). In place of a wide variety of religious, private, municipal and corporative educational institutions, he suggested setting up a school system divided into \"Volksschule\" (people's schools), \"Gymnasiums\" and universities. Humboldt defined the characteristics of each stage in education. Elementary teaching \"truly only need be occupied with language, numbers and measures, and remain linked to the mother tongue being given that nature is indifferent in its design\". For the second stage, that of being taught in school, Humboldt wrote \"The aim of being taught in school is to exercise [a pupil's] ability and to acquire knowledge without which scientific understanding and ability are impossible. Finally, he stated that university had to train a student in research and allow him to understanding \"the unity of science\". From 1812, a university entry had to obtain the \"Abitur\". The state controlled all the schools, but even so it strictly imposed compulsory education and controlled exams. To enter the civil service, performance criteria were set up. Education and performance replaced social origin.\n\nWilhelm von Humboldt backed a new humanism. Unlike the utilitarian teaching of the Enlightenment, which wished to transmit useful knowledge for practical life, Humboldt desired a general formation of man. From then students had to study antiquity and ancient languages to develop themselves intellectually. Not only would they acquire this humanistic knowledge, they would also acquire other knowledge necessary for other jobs. The state would not seek to form citizens at all costs to serve it, but it did not entirely let go of that aim:\n\nIn paying professors better and improving their training, the quality of teaching in the \"Volksschule\"s was improved. The newly founded \"gymnasia\" offered a humanist education to ready pupils for university studies. In parallel \"Realschule\"s were set up to train men in manual trades. Some schools for officer cadets were allowed to remain. Despite stricter state influence and control, the religious authorities retained their role in inspecting schools.\n\nIn Humboldt's thinking, university represented the crowning glory of intellectual education and the expression of the ideal of freedom between teaching and research held an important place in it. German universities of the time were mostly mediocre. For Humboldt, \"the state must treat its universities neither as gymnasia nor as specialist schools and must not serve its Academy as a technical or scientific deputation. Together, they must [...] demand nothing of them which does not give it profit immediately and simply\".\n\nStudents, in his view, had to learn to think autonomously and work in a scientific way by taking part in research. The foundation of Berlin University served as a model. It was opened in 1810 and the great men of the era taught there – Johann Gottlieb Fichte, the physician Christoph Wilhelm Hufeland, the historian Barthold Georg Niebuhr and the jurist Friedrich Carl von Savigny.\n\nIn practice, the educational reforms' results were different from what Humboldt had expected. Putting in place his ideal of philological education excluded the lower classes of society and allied the educational system to the restorationist tendencies. The major cost of education rendered the reforms in this area ineffective. The reformers had hoped that people would rise through the social scale thanks to education, but this did not happen so well as they had hoped.\n\nUnlike the reforms in the states of the Confederation of the Rhine, the Prussian policy was aimed against French supremacy right from the start. Also, the Prussian military reforms were much more profound than those in the south German states. They were instigated by a group of officers which had formed after the defeats of 1806 and notably included Scharnhorst, Gneisenau, Boyen, Grolman and Clausewitz.\n\nChief of staff since 1806, Scharnhorst became head of the military reorganisation commission set up by Frederick William III in July 1807. For him, every citizen was a born defender of the state. His main aim was to drive out the French occupiers. In close contact with Stein, Scharnhorst managed to convince the king that the military needed reform. Like the civil administration, the military organisation was simplified, via the creation of a Prussian ministry of war and of an army staff on 25 December 1808. Scharnhorst was at the head of the new ministry and he aimed his reforms at removing the obstacles between army and society and at making the army ground itself in the citizens' patriotism.\n\nThe experiences of 1806 showed that the old organisation of the Prussian army was no longer a match for the might of the French army. Compared to the French defensive tactics, Prussian tactics were too immobile. Its officers treated their soldiers as objects and punished them severely – one of the most severe punishments, the \"Spießrutenlaufen\", consisted of making a soldier pass between two ranks of men and be beaten by them. The French instead had compulsory military service and the Prussian army's adoption of it was the centre of Prussia's military reforms.\nFrederick William III hesitated about the military reforms, the officer corps and nobility resisted them and even the bourgeoisie remained sceptical. The start of the German campaign of 1813 was the key factor. On 9 February 1813 a decree replaced the previous conscription system with an obligation to serve by canton \"Kantonpflichtigkeit\"), and this new system had to last for the whole war. Thus it looked to restore the pride and position of the common soldier in adapting army discipline to civil law. The punishments and in particular the 'schlague' (consisting of a soldier being beaten) were abolished. The social differences had to disappear. The Treaty of Tilsit had reduced the Prussian army to 42,000 men, but Scharnhorst put in place the \"Krümper system\", which consisted of training a number of soldiers by making them turn without ever exceeding the numbers authorised by the Treaty. Between 30,000 and 150,000 supplementary men were also trained – the training system changed several times and so it is difficult to work out precise numbers. Compulsory military service was ordered by Frederick William III on 27 May 1814 then fixed by a military law on 3 September the same year:\n\nThe officer corps was also reformed and several officers dismissed. The nobility's privilege was abolished and a career as an officer was opened up to the bourgeois. The aristocrats disliked this and protested, as with Ludwig Yorck von Wartenburg. In practice a system of co-opting of officers was put in place which gave generally favoured nobles, even if there remained some (albeit minor) bourgeois influence. Starting with the regiment of chasseurs on campaign, chasseur and protection units were set up. It was Yorck von Wartenburg who from June 1808 occupied on their training. In the officer corps, it was now the terms of service not the number of years served which determined promotion. The Prussian Academy of War also provided better officer training than before – dissolved after the defeat at Jena, it had been refounded in 1810 by Scharnhorst.\n\nStarting in 1813–1814 with the line infantry troops, we also see the Landwehr, which served as reserve troops to defend Prussia itself. It was independent in organisation and had its own units and its own officers. In the \"Kreise\" (districts), commissions organised troops in which the bourgeois could become officers. The reformers' idea of unifying the people and the army seems to have succeeded. Volunteer chasseur detachments (\"freiwillige Jägerdetachements\") were also formed as reinforcements.\n\nThe reforms are sometimes named after their leaders Stein and Hardenberg, but they were also the fruit of a collaboration between experts, each with his own speciality. One of these experts was Heinrich Theodor von Schön – born in 1773, he had studied law at Königsberg university to follow a career in political sciences. In 1793 he entered Prussian service. Nine years later, he became financial councillor to the \"Generaldirektorium\". When the Prussian government fled to Königsberg after its defeat at Jena, he followed Stein there. It was there that he brought to bear his expertise on serfdom and it was his treatise that would help Stein write the October edict. Unlike Stein, Schön backed a greater liberalisation of landowning – for him, economic profitability had to take first priority, even if this was to the peasants' disadvantage. From 1816, Schön became \"Oberpräsident\", a post he held for around 40 years, and devoted himself to the economic and social life of the provinces which he governed.\nSchön also took part in editing the \"Rigaer Denkschrift\". In 1806 he travelled with a group of civil servants that had gathered around the just-dismissed Hardenberg – the group also included Karl vom Stein zum Altenstein, Friedrich August von Stägemann and Barthold Georg Niebuhr. Niebuhr had studied law, philosophy and history at the university of Kiel between 1794 and 1796. In 1804 he was made head of the Danish national bank. His reputation as a financial expert quickly spread to Prussia. On 19 June 1806, Niebuhr and his family left for Riga with other civil servants to work with Hardenberg when he was dismissed. On 11 December 1809, he was made financial councillor and section chief for state debt. In 1810, he edited a note to the king in which he expressed strong doubts on whether a financial plan put in place by Hardenberg could be realised. Its tone he employed was so strong that the king disavowed him and so Niebuhr retired from politics.\n\nThe three other civil servants present at Riga – Karl vom Stein zum Altenstein, Wilhelm Anton von Klewitz and Friedrich August von Stägemann – also played important rôles in the reforms. Altenstein became high financial councillor in the \"Generaldirektorium\". When Stein was dismissed in 1807, Altenstein and the minister of finances Friedrich Ferdinand Alexander zu Dohna-Schlobitten put in place the state reform conceived by Stein. In 1810, Klewitz and Theodor von Schön edited the \"Verordnung über die veränderte Staatsverfassung aller obersten Staatsbehörden\" (\"Decree on the new constitution of all the high portfolios of state\"). Other collaborators took part in the reforms, such as Johann Gottfried Frey (chief of police in Königsberg and the real author of the \"Städteordnung\"), Friedrich Leopold Reichsfreiherr von Schrötter (who collaborated with Stein on the \"Städteordnung\"), Christian Peter Wilhelm Beuth (in Prussian service since 1801, who had collaborated with Hardenberg on the fiscal and industrial laws) and Christian Friedrich Scharnweber (who had some influence on Hardenberg).\n\nFrom 1806 onwards isolated uprisings occurred in Germany and the German-speaking countries. On 26 August 1806 the bookseller Johann Philipp Palm was shot for publishing an anti-Napoleon pamphlet, to a strong public outcry. In 1809, Andreas Hofer launched an insurrection in the Tyrol, but met the same fate as Palm. Anti-Napoleonic feeling developed little by little, with Germans feeling their spirits weighed down by the French occupation and Prussia still paying huge indemnities to the French. When Napoleon's 1812 invasion of Russia met with disaster, it lit a glimmer of hope in Germany and above all in Prussia. On 30 December 1812, Yorck von Wartenburg signed the convention of Tauroggen, by which Prussia in effect turned against Napoleon and repudiated the Treaty of Tilsit.\n\nOn 13 March 1813 Frederick William III made his 'An Mein Volk' speech, making an appeal:\nThe following 27 March Prussia declared war on France and the following 16–19 October saw the beginning of the end for Napoleonic power with the battle of Leipzig. On 1 October 1815 the Congress of Vienna opened and at it Harbenberg represented the victorious Kingdom of Prussia.\n\nIn late 19th century historiography, the Prussian reforms and the \"revolution from above\" were considered by Heinrich von Treitschke and others to be the first step in the foundation of the German Empire on the basis of a 'small-Germany' solution. For Friedrich Meinecke, the reforms put in place the conditions necessary for the future evolution of Prussia and Germany. For a long time, under the influence of Leopold von Ranke, the era of reforms was presented first and foremost as a story of the deeds and destinies of \"great men\", as shown by the large number of biographies written about the reformers – Hans Delbrück wrote about Gneisenau and Meinecke about Boyen, for example.\n\nIndeed, it was the military reforms which first gained the researchers' interest. It was only with the biography of Max Lehmann that Stein's life and actions were analysed. Unlike Stein, the biographers paid little attention to Hardenberg. Despite the significant differences between Stein and Hardenberg, historiography saw a fundamental continuity between their approaches that made them one single unified policy.\n\nSome authors, such as Otto Hintze, underlined the role of reform programmes such as the \"Allgemeines Landrecht\" of 1794. One such continuity confirmed the theory that the reformers were already a distinct group before the reforms occurred. Thomas Nipperdey resumed the debate by writing that there had been reform plans before the disaster of 1806, but that those behind them had lacked the energy to put them into force and also lacked internal cohesion. As for the agricultural reforms, the works of Georg Friedrich Knapp aroused a controversy at the end of the 19th century – he criticised the reform policy, stating that it favoured the aristocrats' interests and not the peasants' interests. He held Adam Smith's liberal interest responsible for the evolution of certain problems. Research later led to a global critique which could not be maintained. After all, the peasants' properties were developed, even if the lands they gained were most often revealed to be poor soil.\n\nToday, the industrial reforms' success is also critiqued in a more nuanced way. They are considered not to have been the immediate reason for the artisans' misery, instead taken as the reduced influence of the legislation on their development. The historian Barbara Vogel tried to address an overall concept of agricultural and industrial approaches and to describe them as a \"bureaucratic strategy of modernisation\". When industrial development was taken into account, the policy of reforms is seen to certainly be centred on the encouragement of rural industry in the historic Prussian territories, thus allowing the onset of Prussia's industrial revolution.\n\nReinhart Koselleck tried to give a general interpretation of the reform policy in view of the 1848 revolution, in his work \"Preußen zwischen Reform und Revolution\" (\"Prussia between Reform and Revolution\"). He distinguished three different processes. The \"Allgemeines Landrecht\" represented – at the time of its publication – a reaction to social problems, but remained attached to corporative elements. Koselleck saw the birth of an administrative state during the reform era and during the reinforcement of the administration between 1815 and 1825 as an anticipation of the later constitution. However, in his view, the following decades saw the political and social movement suppressed by the bureaucracy. After the end of the reform period, Koselleck underlined that there was a rupture in the equilibrium between the high level civil servants and the bourgeois of the 'Bildungsbürgertum' who could not become civil servants. According to him, the bureaucracy represented the general interest against the individual interest and no national representative body was set up for fear of seeing the reforming movement stopped.\nThe historian Hans Rosenberg and later the representatives of the Bielefeld School supported the theory that the end of the process which would have led to a constitution in Prussia was one of the reasons for the end to its democratisation and for the \"Sonderweg\". Hans-Jürgen Puhle, professor at Frankfurt University, even held the Prussian regime to be \"in the long term programmed for its own destruction\". Other writers more orientated towards historicism such as Thomas Nipperdey underlined the divergence between the reformers' intentions and the unexpected later results of the reforms.\n\nSeveral decades ago, the Prussian reforms from 1807 to 1819 lost their central position in historical study of 19th-century Germany. One contributing factor to this decline is that the reforms in the states of the Confederation of the Rhine were considered as similar by several historians. Another is that the Prussian regions – dynamic in industry and society – belonged to the French sphere of influence directly or indirectly until the end of the Napoleonic era.\n\nSeveral statues of the reformers were set up, especially of Stein. In 1870 a statue of Stein by Hermann Schievelbein was put up on the Dönhoffplatz in Berlin. Around its base can be read \"To minister Baron vom Stein. The recognition of the fatherland.\". A statue of Hardenberg by Martin Götze was also put up beside it in 1907. Stein's statue now stands in front of the Landtag of Prussia in Berlin.\n\nOne of the most important monuments to the reformers is that in the Heumarkt in Cologne, made up of an equestrian statue of Frederick William III by Gustav Blaeser on a base surrounded by statues of important figures of the era, including several Prussian reformers: Stein, Hardenberg, Gneisenau, Scharnhorst, Humboldt, Schön, Niebuhr and Beuth. The monument's design process had been launched in 1857 and it was inaugurated on 26 September 1878, with a medal marking the occasion bearing William I of Germany and his wife on the obverse and the monument and the phrase \"To king Frederick William III, the Rhine states recognise him\" on the reverse. The monument recalled the Berlin equestrian statue of Frederick the Great, designed by Christian Daniel Rauch, master of Blaeser.\n\nStein featured on commemorative stamps in 1957 and 2007 and Humboldt in 1952, whilst several streets are now named after the reformers, especially in Berlin, which has a Humboldtstraße, a Hardenbergstraße, a Freiherr-vom-Stein-Straße, a Niebuhrstraße, a Gneisenaustraße and a Scharnhorststraße.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1882225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1882225", "title": "Rump legislature", "text": "Rump legislature\n\nA rump legislature is a legislature formed of part, usually a minority, of the legislators originally elected or appointed to office.\n\nThe word \"rump\" normally refers to the back end of an animal; its use meaning \"remnant\" was first recorded in the context of the 17th century Rump Parliament in England. Since 1649, the term \"rump parliament\" has been used to refer to any parliament left over after the true parliament has formally dissolved.\n\nIn the United States in the 19th century, upon the secession of Virginia from the union on April 27, 1861, anti-secessionist legislators convened a rump legislature and formed a pro-Union reformed government which claimed to represent all of Virginia. This reformed government authorized the creation of the state of Kanawha, later renamed West Virginia.\n\nBy contrast, the Legislative Yuan of Taiwan between 1951 and 1991, having been relocated from Nanking to Taipei when the Republic of China lost its Chinese mainland in late 1949, contained members originally who could not be replaced. The pre-reform Legislative Yuan was nevertheless widely regarded as a rump legislature, controlling only a fraction of the territory it claimed to represent.\n\n"}
{"id": "236185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=236185", "title": "SCO Group, Inc. v. International Business Machines Corp.", "text": "SCO Group, Inc. v. International Business Machines Corp.\n\nSCO v. IBM is a civil lawsuit in the United States District Court of Utah. The SCO Group asserted that there are legal uncertainties regarding the use of the Linux operating system due to alleged violations of IBM's Unix licenses in the development of Linux code at IBM. The lawsuit was filed in 2003, it has lingered on through the bankruptcy of SCO Group and the adverse result in \"SCO v. Novell\", and was reopened for continued litigation by order of a new judge on June 14, 2013. Pursuant to the court order reopening the case, an IBM Motion for Summary Judgment was filed based upon the results of the \"Novell\" decision. On December 15, 2014, the judge granted most of IBM's motion, thereby narrowing the scope of the case, which remained open. On March 1, 2016, following the judge in the case ruling against the last remaining claims, SCO's suit against IBM was dismissed with prejudice; SCO then filed an appeal later that month.\n\nOn March 6, 2003, the SCO Group (formerly known as Caldera International and Caldera Systems) filed a $1 billion lawsuit in the United States against IBM for allegedly \"devaluing\" its version of the UNIX operating system. SCO retained Boies Schiller & Flexner for this, and related subsequent litigation. The amount of alleged damages was later increased to $3 billion, and then $5 billion. SCO claimed that IBM had, without authorization, contributed SCO's intellectual property to the codebase of the open source, Unix-like Linux operating system. In May 2003, SCO Group sent letters to members of the Fortune 1000 and Global 500 companies warning them of the possibility of liability if they use Linux.\n\nThe claims and counter-claims made by both sides then escalated, with both IBM and Linux distributor Red Hat starting legal action against SCO, SCO threatening Linux users who do not take out SCO UNIX licenses, and SCO suing Novell (see also SCO-Linux controversies), AutoZone and DaimlerChrysler.\n\nOn September 30, 2003, Judge Kimball (the presiding federal district judge) granted the SCO Group's request for a delay until February 4, 2004, \"to file any amended pleadings or add parties to this action\". The schedule was amended again on July 1, 2005. In December 2006 the trial date was vacated pending the resolution of SCO's litigation with Novell, all parties agreeing that \"SCO v. Novell\" would resolve issues relating to \"SCO v. IBM\".\n\nIn an \"Order Granting in Part IBM's Motion to Limit SCO's Claims\" dated June 28, 2006, Judge Brooke Wells (the federal magistrate judge presiding over discovery aspects of the case) barred SCO from asserting 187 of the 298 allegedly misused items that IBM had moved to exclude from the lawsuit for lack of specificity, stating \"many of SCO's arguments and much of Mr. Rochkind's declaration miss the mark\", and comparing SCO's tactics with those of an officer who accuses a citizen of theft, but will not disclose what the citizen is accused of stealing. \"Certainly if an individual was stopped and accused of shoplifting after walking out of Neiman Marcus, they would expect to be eventually told what they allegedly stole. It would be absurd for an officer to tell the accused that 'you know what you stole I'm not telling.' Or, to simply hand the accused individual a catalog of Neiman Marcus' entire inventory and say 'it's in there somewhere, you figure it out.'\"\n\nOn August 10, 2007, Judge Kimball, who also presides over the \"SCO v. Novell\" case, ruled that Novell, not the SCO Group, is the rightful owner of the copyrights covering the Unix operating system. The court also ruled that \"SCO is obligated to recognize Novell's waiver of SCO's claims against IBM and Sequent\". After the ruling Novell announced they have no interest in suing people over Unix and stated \"We don't believe there is Unix in Linux\".\n\nIn an order entered on 21 September 2007, Judge Kimball administratively closed the case of \"SCO v. IBM\" due to SCO filing for bankruptcy on 14 September 2007. This means that all action in \"SCO v. IBM\" is stayed until SCO emerges from bankruptcy proceedings. If and when it does, the case \"SCO v. IBM\" will resume where it left off.\n\nOn August 24, 2009, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Tenth Circuit reversed the portion of the August 10, 2007 district court summary judgment in \"SCO v. Novell\" that Novell owned the copyright to Unix. As a result, SCO was permitted to pursue its claim of ownership of the Unix copyrights at trial.\n\nOn March 30, 2010, the jury returned a verdict in \"SCO v. Novell\", finding that Novell owns the copyrights.\n\nSCO's lawsuit has been consistent only in its claim of breach of contract (since the abandonment in early 2004 of its claim of misappropriation of trade secrets). SCO's initial claims were:\n\n\nOn July 22, 2003, SCO amended its complaint. It added two new claims:\n\n\nOn February 27, 2004, SCO amended the complaint again, dropping the trade secrets claim, but added the following:\n\n\nSCO's claims in press releases and interviews have changed repeatedly as the affair has progressed. SCO has also both claimed and denied that the alleged copyright violations involved the Linux kernel. \"Computerworld\" reported Chris Sontag of SCO as saying:\n\nSCO refuses to allow access to the samples of code containing the alleged copyright violations except under a non-disclosure agreement (NDA). SCO's NDA would not only require that the signer keep confidential which lines of code SCO contested, but would also require that they hold confidential any information SCO told them, even if they already knew that information before being informed of it by SCO; all Linux kernel developers have considered this to be far too restrictive, so none of them have signed it. However, at SCO's annual reseller's convention in August 2003, they revealed two short sections of code they alleged were copyright violations, and images of Darl McBride's presentation of this code were soon after published on German computer magazine publisher Heinz Heise's website.\n\nOn May 30, 2003, SCO Group's CEO Darl McBride was quoted as saying that the Linux kernel contained \"hundreds of lines\" of code from SCO's version of UNIX, and that SCO would reveal the code to other companies under NDA in July. To put this into context, David Wheeler's SLOCCount estimates the size of the Linux 2.4.2 kernel as 2,440,919 source lines of code out of over 30 million physical source lines of code for a typical GNU/Linux distribution. Therefore, as per SCO's own estimate, the allegedly infringing code would make up about 0.001% of the total code of a typical GNU/Linux installation. SCO has since upwardly revised this figure to over a million lines of code, however.\n\nSCO's major claims have now been reported as relating to the following components of the Linux kernel:\n\n\nThese claims flow from the accusation of breach of contract. The contract between IBM and AT&T Corporation (to which SCO claims to be successor in interest) allows IBM to use the SVR4 code, but the SVR4 code, plus any derivative works made from that code, must be held confidential by IBM. According to IBM's interpretation of the contract, and the interpretation published by AT&T in their \"$ echo\" newsletter in 1985, \"derivative works\" means any works containing SVR4 code. But according to SCO's interpretation, \"derivative works\" also includes any code built on top of SVR4, even if that does not contain, or even never contained, any SVR4 code. Thus, according to SCO, any AIX operating system code that IBM developed must be kept confidential, even if it contains nothing from SVR4.\n\nThe lawsuit caused moral indignation and outrage in the free software and open source communities, who consider SCO's claims to be without merit and even cynically dishonest. Open source advocates' arguments include:\n\n\nSCO and its officers have been the subject of much criticism by the free software community, some of whom have stated that SCO's behavior may amount to illegal conduct. SEC filings show that senior SCO executives dumped their personal holdings in SCO shortly after counter-suits were filed by IBM and Red Hat. SCO Group's CEO Darl McBride has been the subject of particular criticism, because of his extreme statements to the press.\n\nOn March 10, 2003, the Open Source Initiative (OSI) released a position paper on the \"SCO v. IBM\" complaint, written by Eric S. Raymond, president of the OSI and author of \"The Cathedral and the Bazaar\".\n\nOn May 16, 2003, Groklaw, a website founded by journalist/paralegal Pamela Jones, began covering the SCO litigation on a daily basis, and became a voice for the community to express its views of SCO's claims, as well as being an experiment in applying Open Source principles to legal research. The SCO Group has singled the site out as a particular thorn in its side.\n\nOn May 30, 2003, Linus Torvalds, developer of the Linux kernel, was quoted as saying, regarding the case:\n\n\"The Inquirer\" reported on June 15, 2003, that an unnamed Linux kernel programmer has written to SCO, threatening action based on their distribution of a Linux distribution that, according to their own claims, contains code not licensed under the GPL. According to the letter reproduced there, the programmer claimed that SCO's doing so was an infringement of his own copyright. SCO's response to this letter is not known.\n\nIn an interview on June 23, 2003, Torvalds responded to SCO's allegation that Linux development had no process for vetting kernel contributions:\n\nOn June 27, 2003, Eben Moglen, the counsel for the Free Software Foundation, released a more complete statement regarding the SCO lawsuit. In this statement, he reiterates many of the points made above, and states that:\n\nOn July 31, 2003, the Open Source Development Labs released a position paper on the ongoing conflict, written by the FSF's Eben Moglen.\n\nA number of Linux supporters have characterized SCO's actions as an attempt to create fear, uncertainty and doubt about Linux. Many believe that SCO's aim is to be bought out by IBM. Others have pointed to Microsoft's subsequent licensing of the SCO source code as a possible \"quid pro quo\" for SCO's action.\n\nUnivention GmbH, a Linux integrator, reported on May 30, 2003, it was granted an injunction by a Bremen court under German competition law that prohibits the SCO Group's German division from claiming that Linux contains illegally obtained SCO intellectual property. If the SCO Group continued to express this position, they would have to pay a fine of €250,000. A similar injunction was sought around the same time in Poland.\n\nOn July 23, Open Source Victoria announced that they had filed a complaint with the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission, \"asking the ACCC to investigate the SCO Group's activities in light of their unsubstantiated claims and their extortive legal threats for money against possibly hundreds of thousands of Australians\".\n\nSCO Group then filed subpoenas for Richard Stallman and Linus Torvalds on November 13, 2003.\n\nWithin a few months of the filing of the lawsuit, Eben Moglen, the Free Software Foundation's legal counsel, stated that SCO's suit should not concern Linux users other than IBM. In an interview with \"internetnews.com\", he was reported as saying:\n\nApparently noticing the incongruity of their selling a Linux distribution while suing IBM for stealing their intellectual property and giving it to the developers of that operating system, the SCO Group then announced on May 14, 2003, that they would no longer distribute Linux. According to a press release, SCO said that it would \"continue to support existing SCO Linux and Caldera OpenLinux customers and hold them harmless from any SCO intellectual property issues regarding SCO Linux and Caldera OpenLinux products\".\n\nSCO currently claims:\n\n\nDuring a certain period of its litigation against IBM, SCO alleged that the GPL violates the United States Constitution. This allegation was dropped however from SCO's claims in April 2004 in \"SCO's Answer to IBM's Second Amended Counterclaims\".\n\nSCO originally based its views on the following considerations:\n\nSection 8 of Article One of the United States Constitution states that\n\nSince the GNU General Public License for the most part disclaims exclusive rights, SCO claimed that its use violates this clause. SCO's argument asks the court to limit both Congress's discretion in implementing the copyright clause, which the Supreme Court refused to do in \"Eldred v. Ashcroft\", and copyright holders' discretion over the enjoyment of their exclusive rights. The GPL specifically prohibits, in section 7, distribution of software in jurisdictions where the laws are incompatible with the GPL, so a ruling that upheld SCO's constitutional argument would prevent distribution of Linux (and other copylefted software) in the United States.\n\nOther commentators disagree however. One such commentator, Tom Carey, partner and chairman of a Boston intellectual property law firm, even went so far as to say \"Attacks on the GPL are far-fetched and a little bit desperate\". Stacey Quandt, principal analyst at Quandt Analytics, remarked, \"SCO's prior claim that the GPL was unconstitutional was equivalent to Microsoft's claims about open source being un-American—totally ridiculous.\".\n\nProfessor Eben Moglen, on leave from the Columbia University law faculty for the year 2006-2007, speaking as counsel to the Free Software Foundation (FSF) who is responsible for drafting the GPL, also takes this view. He says, \"I believe the constitutionality attack on the GPL is not a tenable legal argument but is rather a public relations argument.\" In a talk at Harvard in February, he addressed the issue of constitutionality by referring to Congress' recent extension of copyright term limits. \"It turns out that there's no such thing as an unconstitutional copyright rule,\" he said, \"if Congress passes it, and if it observes the distinction between expression and idea.\"\n\nNovell entered the controversy by publishing on May 28, 2003, a press release concerning the SCO Group's ownership of UNIX. \"To Novell's knowledge, the 1995 agreement governing SCO's purchase of UNIX from Novell does not convey to SCO the associated copyrights\", a letter to the SCO Group's CEO Darl McBride said in part. \"We believe it unlikely that SCO can demonstrate that it has any ownership interest whatsoever in those copyrights. Apparently you share this view, since over the last few months you have repeatedly asked Novell to transfer the copyrights to SCO, requests that Novell has rejected.\"\n\nSCO later claimed to have discovered an amendment to their contract with Novell transferring partial ownership to SCO. Novell stated that the amendment \"appears to bear a valid Novell signature, and the language, though convoluted, seems to support SCO's claim that ownership of some copyrights for Unix did transfer to SCO\"; Novell also said that it could not find its own copy of the amendment.\n\nBut in subsequent letters to SCO that Novell released as part of a press release on December 22, 2003, Joseph LaSala Jr., Novell's general counsel, argued that the amendment provided for a copyright transfer only under certain conditions that SCO has allegedly failed to meet.\n\nSCO was quick to dismiss Novell's claims. The same day, during a conference call to discuss SCO's quarterly financial results, SCO CEO Darl McBride said \"We see this as a fraudulent filing of copyright notices...and we'll take the appropriate measures as necessary with our legal team\". SCO made good on this threat on January 20, 2004, when it filed \"SCO v. Novell\". On August 10, 2007, Judge Kimball issued a ruling which says in part \"the court concludes that Novell is the owner of the UNIX and UnixWare copyrights.\" This decision is expected to impact the \"SCO v. IBM\" since the ruling states that Novell \"is entitled, at its sole discretion, to direct SCO to waive its claims against IBM and Sequent\".\n\nReuters reported that the SCO Group intended to revoke IBM's license to use UNIX code in their AIX operating system on June 13, 2003, if no resolution is reached before then. IBM responded that they believe that SCO has no power to do so, as their license is \"irrevocable\". On the following Monday, June 16, 2003, CNET reported that SCO had announced it had terminated IBM's license. IBM continues to distribute and support AIX, and the SCO Group now states that they will be seeking an injunction to force IBM not only to stop selling and supporting AIX, but also to return to the SCO Group or destroy all copies of the AIX operating system. IBM's continued distribution of AIX is the basis of SCO's copyright claim.\n\nOn June 9, however, Novell privately conversed with SCO expressing their belief that SCO did not have rights to terminate the license. Three days later, Novell cited Section 4.16(b) of their Asset Purchase Agreement (APA) with SCO that gave Novell the ability to intercede in the dispute between SCO and IBM and waived SCO's rights to terminate the license.\n\nOn August 10, 2007, Judge Kimball ruled that Novell was the owner of UNIX and thus could waive SCO's termination of IBM's license.\n\nOn August 6, 2003, IBM filed its counterclaims against SCO. It made 10 counterclaims:\n\n\nIn response to these counterclaims, SCO asserted that the GPL is unenforceable, void, and violates the United States Constitution, but later dropped that claim. If these claims were true, then the GPL'd applications that SCO continued to distribute (like Samba) were being distributed without the permission of the copyright owners of those applications (since the permission was the GPL itself), which would be illegal.\n\nOn September 25, 2003, IBM amended its counterclaims bringing the total number of counterclaims to 13. The new counterclaims were:\n\n\nOn March 29, 2004, IBM amended its counterclaims again. It dropped one of the patent infringement claims, but added two new Declaratory judgments of Noninfringement of Copyrights. One of these sought a declaration that IBM's AIX-related activities did not infringe any of SCO's copyrights. The other one sought a similar declaration about IBM's Linux-related activities.\n\nThe discovery portion of the lawsuit lasted several years. The basis for SCO's suit is that any code developed on top of SVRX is a derivative work of SVRX (which would include AIX), and that IBM has publicly admitted to contributing AIX code to the Linux kernel. Since SCO has never seen the AIX code, it has, as part of the discovery process, deposed IBM for the AIX code, so that it can compare AIX code to Linux kernel code. IBM, rejecting SCO's concept of derivative work, has deposed SCO for which lines of code it claims are infringing. SCO has responded that it can't determine which code is infringing until it has had the chance to look at the AIX code.\n\nOn December 5, 2003, in the first oral arguments relating to the discovery process, a judge granted IBM's two motions to compel against SCO, and deferred consideration of SCO's motions until later. This gave SCO a 30-day deadline to provide \"with specificity\" which lines of code in Linux they claim form the basis of their case. This was widely regarded as a first-round victory for IBM.\n\nOn June 28, 2006, Judge Brooke Wells granted IBM's motion to strike most of SCO's evidence, citing in part SCO's inability to provide the specificity required by the court: \n\nSCO appealed to Judge Kimball and asked for a \"de novo\" review of Judge Wells' order. On November 29, 2006, Judge Dale Kimball affirmed Judge Wells' order in its entirety.\n\nAt a reseller show in August 2003, SCO revealed a sample of alleged copied code. This was later shown to be originally released under a BSD License.\n\nThe code (atealloc) had been in the IA-64 version of Linux for a short period of time, but had already been removed on July 4, 2003 for technical reasons and because \"it's ugly as hell.\"\n\nUNIX creator Dennis Ritchie confirmed that either he or Ken Thompson wrote the atealloc code, which is released under the BSD license. It is claimed that SCO removed the original license text from Unix source (such as the Berkeley packet filter), allegedly violating the BSD license.\n\nIn late December 2003, new developments involving copyright claims emerged.\n\nNovell registered their claim to the copyright of original UNIX source code, effectively challenging SCO's registration of the same code.\n\nSCO Group claimed in a press release to have sent DMCA notification letters alleging copyright infringement. Alleged copies of these letters were posted online. The letters give the names of 65 files in the Linux source code tree which supposedly incorporate \"copyrighted binary interfaces\". Linus Torvalds then posted a rebuttal on Groklaw.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23229968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23229968", "title": "Solar tree", "text": "Solar tree\n\nA solar tree is a structure incorporating solar energy technology on a single pillar, like a tree trunk. It may be a solar artwork or a functional power generator.\n\nSolar trees are intended to bring visibility to solar technology and to enhance the landscape and architecture they complement, usually in a commercial or public context. An objective of many solar tree installations is to promote awareness, understanding, and adoption of renewable energy. They are not typically used as a primary source of energy for a property—that role is accomplished by rooftop solar systems. Solar trees are complementary to rooftop solar systems, or other green building measures, symbolizing these larger investments and their environmental benefit.\n\nSolar trees may build awareness and interest in solar technology and also provide shade and meeting places.\n\nUnique sculptural creations for a single sites began to appear in 1998 (e.g., the 7 kW tree in Gleisdorf, Austria) or earlier. A number of variants of solar trees have been conceived, not all of them realized in installations. Locations have included roadways, public areas in cities, schools and universities, office buildings, science museums, and more. Recently, designers and manufacturers have introduced solar trees as products, designed to deliver the benefits of solar trees in a repeatable way to more places. Examples include Ross Lovegrove's solar tree which incorporated seating, lighting, and circular groupings of photovoltaic cells, Envision Solar solar parking canopy specifically trademarked Solar Tree, and Spotlight Solar's line of architectural structures and most recently CSIR’s Solar Power Tree from India.\n\nExample 1: Original Solar Tree Artworks\n\nExample 2: Ross Lovegrove's Solar Tree\n\nExample 3: Spotlight Solar structures\n\nExample 4: CSIR's Solar Power Tree\n\nExample 5: Solar Power Tree Artifact\n\nThe Strawberry Tree, invented by the Serbian company Strawberry Energy, is a variation of the Solar Tree in that it is specifically designed to recharge mobile devices. The company won the Sustainable Energy Week 2011” competition for its revolutionary contribution.\n\nThere is a distinction to be made between organically inspired solo\nr trees and structures which have been adopted to create energy efficient parking lots. Companies such as General Electric have installed solar panels in car parking lots to collect solar energy and protect vehicles from sun damage. These car sheltering solar devices differ from artistic Solar Trees in that they have no organic aesthetic. In contrast to the field of solar artwork, they would more appropriately be dubbed elevated solar panels.\n\nRein Triefeldt is a solar environmentalist artist that has also begun to construct solar trees. He is one of the founders and the current president of the Solar Tree Foundation which began in 2008.\n\nThe Solar Tree Foundation designs programs for elementary school students to show them the creative process for constructing a Solar Tree in order to educate a broad audience on the environmental and technological material. It’s also designed with the intention of instilling an appreciation for artistic aesthetics interpreted through sculptures as a medium of expression. This is performed by online lectures and webcams in which the students can engage with the architects and see the construction process in real time. Triefeldt believes that his Solar Trees will help preserve natural trees in the long run.\n\nThe latest solar tree constructed by the Solar Tree Foundation was erected for North Hillsborough Elementary School in Hillsborough California. At peak efficiency, the 10,000 lb Solar Tree is claimed to produce 20,000 watts of energy per day.\n\n"}
{"id": "43554599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43554599", "title": "Speed limits in the United States by jurisdiction", "text": "Speed limits in the United States by jurisdiction\n\nSpeed limits in the United States vary depending on jurisdiction, with common in the Western United States and common in the Eastern United States. States may also set special speed limits for trucks and night travel along with minimum speed limits. The highest speed limit in the country is , which is posted on a single stretch of tollway in rural Texas.\n\nIn Alabama, it is illegal to drive at a speed that is not \"reasonable and prudent\" for the current conditions and hazards. Drivers must also not drive so slowly that they impede the flow of traffic. If the speed limit is not otherwise posted, it is:\nTrucks carrying hazardous materials are not to exceed .\n\nIn Alaska, many of the major highways carry a speed limit, including:\nThe Minnesota Drive Expressway features a speed limit, as does the Richardson Highway between Fairbanks and North Pole.\n\nSince the mid-1990s, Alaska's major highways have gradually been upgraded from 55 mph to 60 or 65 mph. However, several continue to carry the default speed limit, including:\nEngineering studies are needed to define which road segments to post a speed limit higher than .\n\nThe Dalton Highway and parts of the Elliot Highway are 50 mph.\n\nDefault speed limits in Alaska are:\nThe speed limit when towing a mobile home is .\n\nThe speed limit in American Samoa is 45 mph (72 km/h), with 25-45 mph (40-72 km/h) in undivided rural areas and 20-25 mph (32-40 km/h) in residential areas.\n\nThe default speed limit outside of \"business or residential\" districts in Arizona is , within those districts the default speed limit is . The school zone speed limit is , while some may be . Exceeding these limits only in the best of driving conditions is considered \"prima facie\" evidence of speeding. Altered speed limits are not \"prima facie\".\n\nThe maximum speed limit on Interstate Highways is . This limit may be applied outside of \"urbanized areas\", where speeds of over on any highway (regardless of the posted speed limit) is considered a criminal (rather than civil) offense. However, Interstate 10 near the California border is reduced to . Some portions of Interstate 15 have the same regulations due to sharp curves. There is an exception of urban highway in Casa Grande, with a speed limit of , while other urban highways are capped at . Within \"business or residential\" districts, exceeding the speed limit by more than is considered criminal. Within \"urbanized areas\", speed limit citations are given for \"waste of a finite resource\". This exception only applies within a threshold. As long as the speed does not exceed , the infraction is not recorded as a traffic violation for the purposes of a point system.\n\nNon-passenger vehicles in excess of , or \"vehicles drawing a pole trailer\" weighing more than may not exceed unless signs are posted that allow such a speed. Yet this does not differ from the default speed limit, and has the practical effect of requiring extra consideration for posting a standard speed limit sign in excess of . A non-numeric minimum speed limit is incorporated with the basic speed rule in Arizona, which also prohibits speeds higher than would be \"reasonable and prudent\".\n\nNight speed limit signs are posted on some roads within Tucson city limits that do not have street lights. Examples: Fort Lowell Road from Oracle Road to Country Club Road, 22nd Street from Interstate 10 to Cherry Avenue.\n\nUrban districts by default are posted at . Outside of the municipal limits, two-lane state and federal highways have a speed limit of unless otherwise posted, and 2 lane county roads have a speed limit of unless otherwise posted. In June 2015, the Arkansas Highway Commission authorized the Arkansas Highway and Transportation Department (AHTD) to raise the speed limit on undivided 4 and 5 lane roads from while divided 4 lane roads are set to go from , these changes affect of Arkansas highways. Furthermore, AHTD has established freeway default speed limits. Along rural freeways the limit is while suburban freeways are posted at . School zone speed limits apply only when children are present, or when a lighted beacon is on if one is provided and such speed limits are set at unless otherwise posted. It is fairly common however that schools serving only higher grade levels will not have a school speed limit in rural areas or where such school sits more than off of the highway or street.\n\nOn March 16, 2017, the Arkansas House introduced a bill that would allow the state highway commission to increase speed limits up to 75 mph in rural interstate freeways and sets rural non-divided highway speed limits to 65 mph. This bill became law on April 7, 2017.\n\nThe new 75 mph (121 km/h) speed limit doesn't apply to trucks. Trucks will still be limited to 70 mph. (Fact check, this provision was removed from act 1097.)\n\nAs of October 31, 2017, the speed limit law is being broken into four categories: rural interstates, Urban Interstates, rural divided unlimited access highways, and two lane highways. There are studies being made to increase rural interstate speed limits to 75 mph (121 km/h), urban interstate speed limits to a uniform 65 mph (105 km/h) speed limit, rural divided unlimited access highways to 65 mph (105 km/h) unless the DOT warrants a lower speed, and maintaining a 55 mph (89 km/h) speed limit with the option of increasing the limit to 60 mph (97 km/h) where higher speed limits can be warranted on two lane highways (as of July 1, 2018, no freeways in Arkansas have been increased to 75 mph).\n\nAs of July 16th, 2018, ARDOT was still considering speed limit changes. A spokesman from the department was quoted as saying \"Everybody wants it, but when you're driving that much faster its more challenging to negotiate curves in the rural highways.\" \n\nCalifornia's \"Basic Speed Law\", part of the California Vehicle Code, defines the maximum speed at which a car may travel as a \"reasonable and prudent\" speed, given road conditions. The reasonable speed may be lower than the posted speed limit in conditions such as fog, heavy rain, ice, snow, gravel, sharp corners, blinding glare, darkness, crossing traffic, or when there is an obstructed view of orthogonal traffic—such as by road curvature, parked cars, vegetation, or snow banks—thus limiting the Assured Clear Distance Ahead (ACDA). Basic speed laws are statutized reinforcements of the centuries-old common law negligence doctrine as specifically applied to vehicular speed. California Vehicle Code section 22350 is typical; it states that \"No person shall drive a vehicle upon a highway at a speed greater than is reasonable ... and in no event at a speed which endangers the safety of persons or property\".\n\nSpeed limits in California are mandated by statute to be set: (1) at or below the 85th percentile operating speed;\n\nas determined by a traffic and engineering survey—this is the speed that no more than 15% of traffic exceeds; or (2) the prima facie limits mandated when certain criteria are met as described in the vehicle code. These criteria include school zone, alleyway, and residential area.\n\nIf the 85th percentile operating speed as measured by a Traffic and Engineering Survey exceeds the design speed, compulsory legal protection is given to that speed—even if it is unsafe with regard to certain technical aspects such as sight distance. This speed creep may continue until the 85th percentile operating speed is comparable to speed psychologically perceived as uncomfortably hazardous.\n\nThe theory behind California's 85th percentile statute is that, as a policy, most of the electorate should be seen as lawful, and limits must be practical to enforce. However, there are some circumstances where motorists do not tend to process all the risks involved, and as a mass choose a poor 85th percentile speed. This rule in substance is a process for voting the speed limit by driving; and in contrast to delegating the speed limit to an engineering expert.\n\nThe numerical limit set by Caltrans engineers for speed limit signs, generally found on all non-controlled-access routes, is considered a presumptive maximum \"reasonable and prudent\" speed.\n\nMany speed limit signs are identified as \"maximum speed\", usually when the limit is 55 mph (89 km/h) or more. When the National Maximum Speed Law was enacted, California was forced to create a new legal signage category, \"Maximum Speed\", to indicate to drivers that the did not apply for speeds over the federally mandated speed cap; rather, it would be a violation to exceed the fixed maximum speed indicated on the sign, regardless of whether the driver's speed could be considered \"reasonable and prudent\".\n\nA driver can receive a traffic citation for violating the even if their speed is below the \"maximum speed limit\" if road, weather, or traffic conditions make that speed unsafe. However, because the Basic Speed Law establishes \"prima facie\" limits, not absolute ones, they can also defend against a citation for speeding \"by competent evidence that the speed in excess of said limits did not constitute a violation of the basic speed law at the time, place and under the conditions then existing\", per section 22351(b) of the California Vehicle Code. As attorney David W. Brown says in his book \"Fight Your Ticket & Win in California\", \"a person traveling over the speed limit–but less than the usual 65 mph maximum speed (55 mph for two-lane undivided highways)–isn't necessarily violating the law\" and that \"you can defend against a charge of violating the Basic Speed Law not only by showing you weren't exceeding the speed limit, but also by establishing that even if you were over the limit, your speed was nevertheless 'safe' under the circumstances.\"\n\nRural freeways, such as parts of I-5, I-8, I-10, I-15, I-40, I-215, I-505, I-580 (between I-205 and I-5), U.S. 101 between San Miguel and King City, and CA 99 south of Madera and Fresno, have speed limits. The highest speed limit on I-80 is because it passes exclusively through urban and mountainous areas. However, the speed limit on the San Francisco–Oakland Bay Bridge and in San Francisco is only . In downtown Los Angeles, the maximum speed limit is . This includes the entire length of the Pasadena Freeway between Pasadena and downtown Los Angeles, and portions of the Hollywood, Santa Ana, Santa Monica, and Harbor Freeways. The default limit on 2-lane roads is . However, Caltrans or a local agency can post a speed of up to after an engineering study.\n\nThere is a speed limit for trucks with 3 or more axles and all vehicles while towing.\n\nIn California, the Maximum Speed in school zones is , but may only be in effect when children are present within that school zone.\n\nThe maximum speed limit in Colorado is on rural Interstate highways and the toll road portion of SH 470 (E-470), even though Interstate 70 in the Rocky Mountains has a limit because of steep grades and curves and a limit at the east and west ends of the Eisenhower Tunnel. The maximum speed limit on other rural highways is .\n\nThere are also basic prima facie speed limits in Colorado.\n\nOn certain stretches of rural highways, notably US 160 between Durango and Pagosa Springs and US 550 between Durango and Silverton, nighttime speed limits are in effect during peak migratory periods for area wildlife. Speeding fines are doubled when nighttime speed limits are in effect.\n\nSpeed limits in Connecticut are normally on rural freeways; up to on rural divided and up to on rural undivided highways. In urban areas speed limits vary from on residential streets and central business districts, on arterial roadways, and from on urban freeways. Limited-access divided highways have a minimum speed of , but this is not always posted, and rarely enforced. Connecticut was among the last states to raise its maximum speed limit from originally established by the National Maximum Speed Law in 1974. The statewide maximum speed limit was increased from to on October 1, 1998, making Connecticut the last state in the continental United States to raise its speed limit above .\n\nSpeed limits for all roads within Connecticut—including local streets—are established by the State Traffic Commission, an agency composed of members of the Department of Motor Vehicles (CTDMV), the Department of Emergency Services and Public Protection (DESPP), and the Department of Transportation (CONNDOT).\n\nThe State Traffic Commission typically sets speed limits following engineering studies performed by CONNDOT. Data used in setting speed limits includes traffic volume vs. roadway capacity, design speed, road geometry, the spacing of intersections and/or interchanges, the number of driveways and curb cuts, and accident rates.\n\nMunicipalities are normally required to seek approval from the State Traffic Commission for changes to the posted speed limits on locally owned streets after appropriate engineering studies are performed.\n\nSpeeding fines are doubled in school zones when children are present, and construction areas when workers are present.\n\nPrior to enactment of the National Speed Limit Law in 1974, Connecticut permitted a maximum speed limit of on rural freeways.\n\nOn March 26, 2018 contractors started installing new speed limit signs on I-84 between the Waterbury/Cheshire line and the interchange with CT Route 9, increasing the speed limit to 65 mph. This action follows a DOT study showing the 85th percentile speed of free flowing traffic on this segment averaged 77 mph.\n\nIn Delaware, three roads carry a speed limit: Interstate 495, the toll road portion of Delaware Route 1 and the freeway portion of Route 1 up to exit 160 (US 40), and Interstate 95 from the Maryland line to the southern junction with I-495. The remainder of Interstate 95 between the southern junction with I-495 and the Pennsylvania line and the freeway portion of Delaware Route 141 are while I-295 is . Prior to the National Maximum Speed Law that went into effect nationwide, I-95 used to have a speed limit except around Wilmington. In May 2015, the state of Delaware increased the speed limit on Interstate 95 from to between the Maryland state line and the I-495 interchange. In January 2017, the speed limit on Delaware Route 1 between Trap Shooters Road and the Puncheon Run Connector in Dover was increased from to while the speed limit on the Puncheon Run Connector was increased from to .\n\nAll rural two-lane state-owned roads have speed limits, while all urban speed limits, regardless of location, are held at for two-lane roads and up to for four-lane roads. Four lane highways such as US 13, US 113, portions of US 40 near Bear and Glasgow, and the at-grade portions of DE 1 are normally .\n\nSchool zones have speed limits.\n\nInterstate 495, which forms a bypass around Wilmington, features variable speed limit signs for environmental purposes. These signs typically display a speed limit, but this limit changes to on days when air quality is a concern. The limit is also lowered during construction, weather conditions, and when accidents occur.\n\nAll neighborhoods and subdivisions in Delaware have a maximum speed limit of as set by state law. Frequent advertising campaigns on in-state radio stations remind residents of this (as of January 2013).\n\nFlorida has a maximum speed limit of , found on freeways, including rural Interstate Highways, some urban freeways including I-4 in Lakeland, I-75 in Tampa and Miami (where I-75 ends), I-95 near Daytona Beach and from Military Trail to Florida State Route 706 in Palm Beach County, portions of the Orlando area Toll Roads such as SR 417 and SR 429, Florida's Turnpike through Port St Lucie and Orlando, I-10 close to Tallahassee, and most other rural limited access toll roads such as the Suncoast Parkway and the Beachline Expressway and rural portions of Florida's Turnpike. is typical on rural 4-lane highways (such as US-19 north of St. Petersburg, among other US Highways) as well as most other urban freeways and tollways. Rural two-lane roads typically have a speed limit of (the default limit for such roads), although FDOT is permitted to post on appropriately-suited highways. This is typically done on very rural state roads (such as SR 471) and US Highways (such as US 98 along most of the state's panhandle).\n\nFlorida typically does not post night speed limits, but there are a few exceptions. For the most part, these night time reduced speeds are located in wildlife preserves for such endangered species as the Florida panther and the key deer. Most of the Tamiami Trail through the Big Cypress National Preserve has a night speed limit. On some stretches of road where the speed limit is reduced at night, the daytime speed limit sign is non-reflective, such that at night, only the night limit is visible.\n\nFlorida's minimum speed limit on Interstate Highways is in 70 mph zones. In 55 mph, and 65 mph urban interstate zones, the minimum is . At one time, these minimum speeds required signage, but these limits have since been codified in state law; signs indicating these minimum speeds still exist, but now simply serve as a reminder. Urban freeways with speed limits of 50 mph typically do not have minimum speed limits, such as on I-375 in St. Petersburg. Additionally, the new Gandy Freeway in St Petersburg has a speed limit as low as .\n\nFlorida also does not impose lower truck speed limits. As such, all traffic is permitted to travel at the same speed.\n\nSchool zones in Florida usually have limits. Most have flashing yellow lights activated during the times they are in effect as well as accompanying signs that post the times these reduced speed limits are effective. All are strictly enforced and carry an increased penalty for violations.\n\nRural Interstate Highways are posted at . Until 2014, sections of Interstates passing through a municipality or metropolitan area with a population over fifty thousand were capped at . However, a new law has permitted urban interstates to now be posted as high as 70 mph, and some have already reflected this change, such as I-95 through Brunswick, I-85 in Gwinnett County, and I-75 in Macon, Valdosta, and Tifton. Most urban interstates, however, still remain at or below 65 mph. I-285 in the Atlanta area was recently increased from to (with Variable speed limits on the north portion). I-95 and I-16 through suburban Savannah (the 65 mph limit on I-95 is only for a 1.5 mile section in the vicinity of the I-16 interchange), I-16 from the interchange with I-75 in central Macon eastbound past Exit 2 is at 65 mph, and I-185 in Columbus remain at 65 mph, while the Downtown Connector and portions of I-20 in Atlanta are posted as low as . Most non-interstate freeways such as SR 400 and the Athens perimeter highway, are posted at 55 to 65 mph.\n\nFour lane arterials and expressways can be posted as high as . However, Dillon's Rule enables counties outside municipalities to keep four-lane GRIP corridors at . However, in recent years, US 1 between Augusta and Wrens raised the speed limit to 65 mph. Other rural four-lane highways with a 65 mph include portions of US 441 near Irwinton, US 25 between Augusta and Statesboro, SR 88 between Sandersville and Wrens, SR 16 between Griffin and I-75, much of US 341 between Brunswick and I-75, and much of US 82 in South Georgia.\n\nTwo lane state roads by default are posted at . County maintained roads will rarely have speed limits above in middle & south Georgia, in north Georgia. Both in the Atlanta area, Ronald Reagan Parkway is posted at as a county maintained freeway and Sugarloaf Parkway is posted at along its new eastern freeway portion.\n\nInside the municipality, speed limits are generally posted at while it is in the downtown area.\n\nAll roadways maintained by GDOT that are subject to speed limit reductions are given advanced notice with signage that says \"REDUCED SPEED AHEAD\". Furthermore, GDOT has a policy of doing increments but never higher than 10 mph.\n\nGeorgia is one of few states with anti-speed trap laws passed in the late 1990s. Speed violations less than over the speed limit will have no points assessed. Fines are not assessed for motorists going less than over the speed limit. In 2009, Georgia introduced the \"Super Speeder\" law, which adds an additional speeding fine of $200 for motorists convicted of traveling or more on a two-lane or undivided road and or more on a divided highway.\n\nThe speed limit in Guam is 45 mph (72 km/h), with 35-45 mph (56-72 km/h) in undivided rural areas and 35 mph (56 km/h) in rural areas.\n\nHawaii was the last state to raise its maximum speed limit after the National Maximum Speed Law was repealed in 1995, and still has the lowest maximum speed limit of any state. In 2002, following public outcry after a controversial experiment with speed enforcement using traffic enforcement cameras, the state Department of Transportation raised the speed limit to on Interstate H-1 between Kapolei and Waipahu, and Interstate H-3 between the Tetsuo Harano Tunnels and the junction with H-1. All other freeways, including Interstate H-2, have a maximum speed limit of , with the limit dropping to in central Honolulu. Other highways generally have speed limits of 55 mph and in many cases much less. On July 6, 2016, Governor David Ige has signed a bill to allow the Speed Limit on Saddle Road to increase from 55 mph to 60 mph (the limit was increased to 60 mph the week of February 5, 2017).\n\nHawaii has a minimum speed along much of Interstate H-1 of only below the speed limit. The minimum speed is usually when the speed limit is 55, and when the speed limit is 50.\n\nThe speed limit on a freeway in Idaho is generally in rural areas and in urban areas. Trucks are limited to . Generally, both single- and multi-lane rural roads have limits. Roads with traffic lights are posted at or below. The school zone speed limit in Idaho is .\n\nIdaho senator Bart Davis brought SB 1284a to the House of Representatives for discussion in early 2014. The bill passed the Senate on February 25 and was signed into law by Governor Butch Otter on March 18, 2014, which was set to raise the speed limit on rural interstates to on July 1, 2014, the same date Wyoming raised its speed limit. Days before the law was to go into effect, however, it was put on hold in order to allow a more thorough review of the effects of a raised speed limit. A vote on July 14, 2014 approved the 80 mph increase on limited sections of interstates in the southern portions of Idaho. Studies will begin for other areas later of that summer.\nThe bill also would raise truck and two-lane highway speed limits to . As of July 24, 2014, the new 80 mph signs are up on rural Idaho Interstates.\n\nOn March 22, 2017 the speed limit on a four-lane, divided stretch of US 20 between Idaho Falls and Ashton was raised from to 70 mph.\n\nInterstate Highways in Illinois are usually posted with both minimum and maximum speed limits, except in some urban areas, particularly Chicago. The standard speed limit is 70 mph for rural freeways, a 45 mph minimum speed limit, 65 mph for other 4 lane divided highways, and 55 mph for all other highways. Urban freeway/interstate speed limits can range from as low as 45 mph in downtown Chicago, where all the major interstates merge, to as high as 65 mph in the outer portions of the Chicago metro and East St. Louis metro areas, and in some smaller cities. Some interstates in small cities (e.g. I-55/74 through Bloomington-Normal, I-39/90 through the Rockford area, I-57 & I-74 through Champaign-Urbana) do not have reduced speed limits, and a stretch of I-355 between I-55 and I-80 in the southwest suburbs of Chicago is signed at 70 mph. Most freeways and interstates in Cook, DuPage, and Lake Counties, and some interstates and freeways in Will County maintain a 55-60 mph speed limit. Due to the high population density, the only freeways in Cook County that exceed a speed limit of 60 mph are I-57 at the southern edge of the county, part of I-80 between Central Ave and Harlem Ave, and the southern segment of I-355, which passes through Cook County briefly before crossing into Will County to both the north and south. As of January 2010, a reduced speed limit posted in a construction zone must be obeyed 24 hours a day, regardless of whether workers are present.\n\nOn February 10, 2017, a bill was introduced to raise the speed limit on select rural interstate freeways and highways to 75 mph. The bill also contains a provision to increase maximum speed limits to 60 mph for all rural highways, roads, and streets that do not have 4 or more lanes of traffic. This bill and one filed in 2018 died in the legislature.\nAs of March 27, 2018, the speed limit on I-90 from Randall Rd. in Elgin to Mt. Prospect Rd. in Des Plaines has been increased to 70 mph, and from Mt. Prospect Rd. to the beginning of the Kennedy Expressway, it has been increased to 60 mph . I-290 is posted at 60 mph for a few miles near Schaumburg, from IL-72 down to shortly before the I-355 exit.\n\nIn Indiana speed limits on Interstate Highways are usually for cars and for trucks with a gross vehicular weight (GVW) of or greater. In urban areas, it is generally , except stretches of Interstate 70 in Indianapolis where it is . In suburban areas, it is for cars and for trucks.\n\nMost non-Interstate Highways are , but some rural four-lane divided highways are set at . These limits often decrease to approaching urban areas, and within cities a speed limit of is not uncommon, though larger arterial roads within cities may reach as high as .\nOn February 6, 2012 the Indiana toll road was raised from the Illinois state line to mile marker 20 to after a major highway reconstruction project.\n\nIn Iowa, the majority of highways have a speed limit. Rural Interstate Highways carry a limit and a minimum. Urban Interstate limits generally range from , but may be lower in areas. The Interstate 74 Bridge from Bettendorf to Moline, Illinois, for instance, has a limit because the bridge is narrow and has no shoulders. Four-lane roads may have a limit. If the road is built to freeway standards, such as US 20 between I-35 and Dubuque, it may have a minimum speed limit, but otherwise four-lane roads carry no minimum limit so slow-moving farm vehicles may use the roadway.\n\nOn February 21, 2017, a bill was introduced to raise speed limits from 70 mph to 75 mph on interstate freeways, however it was not enacted.\n\nAfter the National Maximum Speed Limit was repealed, Kansas raised its general interstate speed limit to ; a study found \"no statistically significant increases in crash, fatal crash and fatality rates were noted during the after period on either rural or urban interstate highway networks. On the other hand, statistically significant increases in crash, fatal crash and fatality rates were observed on the 2-lane rural highway network.\". In 2011 Governor Sam Brownback signed legislation raising Kansas' top speed limit to on Rural Interstates and limited access portions of U.S. Routes, effective July 1, 2011. The Kansas Department of Transportation announced on June 21, 2011, that 807 miles of roadway, comprising the rural areas of I-70, I-35, I-135, the Kansas Turnpike and the freeway-improved sections of US-69 and US-81, will be raised to 75 mph. Other four-lane, non-limited access divided highways have a speed limit of 70 mph, with 65 mph on two-lane undivided roads, and 55 mph on township roads. Prior to the National Maximum Speed Limit, the speed limit on the Kansas Turnpike used to be , but was reduced to 75 mph on August 17, 1970. The minimum speed limit on Kansas Interstates is 40 mph.\n\nKentucky generally has a 70 mph speed limit on rural freeways as of 2007. The speed limit is reduced to 55 on multi-lane highways in some urban areas (I-71/75 south of Cincinnati, I-64, I-65, I-71 and I-264 in Louisville, and KY 4 in Lexington. There are two 50 mph areas in Louisville. One approaching the Sherman Minton Bridge crossing the Ohio River into Indiana on I-64, and one approaching the Kennedy Bridge on I-65 towards Indiana. The Transportation Cabinet is now authorized to raise any multilane, divided rural highway up to 65 MPH based on speed and design studies. Anyone may request an increase by contacting their local Transportation Cabinet office and specifying the roadway to be raised. Two-lane, undivided highways are limited to 55 MPH. Points are not assessed for speeds less than 10 mph over the speed limit only on limited access highways, or for tickets received by Kentucky licensed drivers out of state.\n\nLouisiana's highest speed limit is 75 mph, found on 154 miles of Interstate 49 in Saint Landry, Avoyelles, Evangeline, Rapides, Natchitoches, DeSoto and Caddo parishes. The 75 zone was established by the Louisiana Department of Transportation and Development in 2011 after a 2010 bill authorized the DOTD to implement 75 zones where proven to be safe.\n\n70 mph is posted on Interstates 10, 12, 20, 49, 55, 59, 220, and 310.\n\nA speed limit of 60 mph is posted on I-10 in Lake Charles, Baton Rouge, and from LaPlace to New Orleans, I-12 in Baton Rouge, I-20 in Shreveport and Monroe, I-49 in Alexandria and Shreveport, I-310 in Destrehan, I-220 in Shreveport, U.S. Routes 71 and 167 in Kingsville, LA 3132, and Interstates 110, 210, 510, 610, and 910 (note: part of I-10 in Baton Rouge was raised to 70 mph, and part of I-12 in Baton Rouge was also raised to 65 mph).\n\nMost two-lane highways in Louisiana have a maximum speed limit of 55 mph.\n\nIn August 2003, Governor Mike Foster announced speed and lane restrictions on trucks on the 18 mile (29 km) stretch of Interstate 10 known as the Atchafalaya Swamp Freeway. The restrictions lower the truck speed limit to 55 mph and restrict them to the right lane for the entire length of the elevated freeway.\n\nThere are exceptions to the basic highway and speed laws\n\nDivided highways in rural areas have a 65 mph speed limits. Louisiana law R.S. 32:61(B) & 32:62(A) states;65 mph on other multi-lane divided highways which have partial or no control of access.\n\nLouisiana operates under the reasonable and prudent basic law;No person shall drive a vehicle at a speed greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions and potential hazards then existing, having due regard for the traffic on, and the surface and width of, the highway, and the condition of the weather. R.S. 32:64(A)\n\nA person, who is operating a motor vehicle on a multilane highway at less than the normal speed of traffic, shall drive in the right-hand lane then available for traffic. R.S. 32:71(B)(1)\n\nMaine carries the highest speed limit on the East Coast, with Interstate 95 carrying a 75 mph limit between Old Town and Houlton. Sections of I-95 south of Old Town as well as 295 carry 70 mph limits, except for brief 50-65 zones in more populated areas (NOTE: the speed limit on I-295 was recently restored to 65 mph between Falmouth and Topsham as of March 27, 2017). The Saco stub I-195 is 60 mph, and I-395 is 60 mph in Bangor and 65 mph in Brewer.\n\nDefault speed limits in Maine are:\n\nIn Maine, school buses may not exceed 45 mph on roads with higher speed limits while transporting students. At other times, the limit is 55 mph, unless on an Interstate highway, in which case the posted limit applies.\n\nAlso the speed limit on county road is 30 MPH\nFines for speeding are at least $50 by law. Exceeding the speed limit by 30 mph or more is considered a criminal offense.\nThe speed limit on Maryland's Interstate Highways are posted by default at 65 mph although 70 mph limits can be posted after a traffic and engineering study. Effective October 1, 2015 the speed limit on I-68 is 70 mph except for a seven-mile section around Cumberland. Effective April 4, 2016, the speed limit on I-70 has been increased to 70 mph from the Pennsylvania state line to MD 180 in Frederick County and from MD 144 in Frederick County to US 29 in Howard County. Maryland's urban freeways normally have speed limits of 55 mph (like I-495) or 60 mph, although some stretches are signed for 65 mph travel such as portions of I-95 and I-97 in and around the Baltimore suburbs, I-70 around Frederick, and I-81 around Hagerstown. I-70 around Hagerstown is posted at 70 mph. More restrictive limits are found on I-83 south of North Avenue when approaching downtown Baltimore and on I-68 through Cumberland, both sections being marked at 40 mph.\n\nFour lane non-interstates and non-freeways are posted at 55 mph. This includes the expressway grade roadways like US 50 and US 301 east of the Bay Bridge, US 15 north of Frederick to the Pennsylvania state line, MD 404 around Denton and US 29 between I-495 and I-70.\n\nNormally, speed limit drops are in 5 mph to 10 mph increments. However, one speed zone drops from 55 to 25 mph along US 301 southbound at the Nice Bridge for the toll plaza.\n\nTwo lane roads are generally posted at 50 mph but there are a handful of routes posted at 55 mph. It is more common to see 55 mph on the Eastern Shore and in Frederick and Carroll counties than the Baltimore-Washington corridor and Western Maryland. Two lane routes that have a speed limit of 55 mph enforce mandatory headlight use.\n\nUrban and downtown speed limits are generally posted at 30 mph.\n\nAs prescribed by Massachusetts law, default speed limits are the following:\n\n\nState highways and other arterials are often posted at in urban areas and in rural areas. A select number of undivided roads are posted at . Divided highways are usually posted at in rural areas as well as business districts. Interstate highways and some non-Interstate controlled-access highways in suburban and rural areas are posted at , but many non-Interstate highways are posted at , such as the freeway portions of US 3, US 6, Route 2, and Route 128, or , such as Massachusetts Route 3 South of Boston. Urban freeways are often posted at and occasionally lower, but some rural freeways that pass through urban areas maintain their speed limit, such as the Massachusetts Turnpike through the Springfield and Worcester areas.\n\nA \"thickly settled district\" is an area where building structures such as residential and commercial are less than apart for a distance of or more. This can be subjective since a large part of eastern Massachusetts is built up with many different jurisdictions and different speed limits assigned.\n\nThe maximum speed limit in Michigan is . Michigan uses a formula based on the number of driveways and streets, or on the 85th percentile of free-flowing traffic, and if none those methods are used a default applies. In rural areas, speed limits are as follows:\n\n\nFreeways in Michigan are usually signed with both minimum and maximum speeds. By default, the freeway speed limit is , with a minimum speed of for all vehicles, despite a truck speed limit of —effectively permitting trucks only a range of legal speeds. The Mackinac Bridge, due to its substandard design, has a speed limit of for passenger vehicles and for trucks. The Michigan Department of Transportation and the Michigan State Police may raise the speed limit to after it is deemed safe to do so. MDOT and the MSP announced on April 26, 2017 that the speed limit was increased to 75 mph on several Michigan freeways, including I-75 from Bay City to Sault Ste. Marie (excluding the Mackinac Bridge), I-69 from Business Loop 69 in Clinton County to I-94 in St. Clair County (excluding the section in and around Flint, which remains at ), US 127 from I-69 in Clinton County to I-75 in Crawford County (excluding the 15-mile stretch between St. Johns and Ithaca, which is not freeway standard), and US 131 from M-57 in Kent County to the end of the freeway north of Manton. These increases commenced on May 1, 2017 and were completed by May 15, 2017. Speed limits in freeway work zones are statutorily limited to 24 hours per day. If workers are present (and not behind a barrier wall), drivers must slow to for the workers' safety.\n\nMichigan's speed limits on urban Interstates are typically higher than its neighboring states. For example, in the Detroit metro area, I-75 southbound enters Detroit at M-102 (8 Mile Road, exit 59) and maintains a limit all the way until the interchange with I-94 (exit 53), where the speed limit drops to . Other freeways in Detroit such as I-94 and I-96 also have speed limits in and around the city's downtown area, but rise to relatively soon after leaving the downtown area. In Downtown Grand Rapids, I-196 has a speed limit of , the only other urban Interstate Highway to have a reduced speed limit. US 131 in Grand Rapids is one of the only non-Interstate urban freeways in Michigan with a speed limit, which was raised from since 2013. Furthermore, speed limits in smaller cities, such as Kalamazoo, Ann Arbor, and Lansing (the state capital) remain at .\n\nThe default speed on all other highways, whether two or four lanes, is . However, Michigan permits speed limits of up to after a safety study concludes the higher limit is safe to implement. Until 2016, this provision only applied to four-lane divided non-limited access highways. A stretch of US 127 between St. Johns and Ithaca was posted at , as a compromise to allow a freer flow of traffic due to insufficient funds to improve the section to freeway standards. The speed limit on US 2 between Rapid River and Gladstone in the Upper Peninsula was also raised to . In Summer 2017 Speed limits began increasing to 65 mph on several select two-lane roads in both the Lower and Upper Peninsulas of Michigan, including US 2 from St. Ignace to Rapid River and M-28 from I-75 to Munising.\n\nThe speed limit in Midway Atoll is 15 mph (24 km/h).\n\nA 70 mph speed limit is only allowed on Minnesota's Interstates outside of urban areas. A speed limit of 55 mph is typically used in urban areas where a higher speed limit might be used, but traffic congestion or other reasons require a lower speed limit. Examples include I-94, I-35W and I-35E in and around Minneapolis, Moorhead and Saint Paul. 35E goes down to a speed limit of 45 mph in some areas of Saint Paul. A speed limit of 60 mph is typically used in suburban areas such as I-494 and I-694 loops in the Twin Cities metro area.\n\nNon-Interstate divided highways (both freeways and expressways) have speed limits of 65 mph in rural areas and up to 60 mph in urban or suburban areas (NOTE: some non-interstate divided highways have gotten speed limit increases in November 2017 such as US Route 169 in the Twin Cities Metropolitan area). Rural two lane State and US highways in Minnesota have a default speed limits of 55 mph although several 60 mph speed limits have been posted after a traffic and engineering study that will continue until 2019. County roads have speed limits of up to 55 mph for 2 lanes and 60 for divided sections.\n\nA speed limit of 70 mph is only allowed on Mississippi's rural freeways; only the Interstates (except I-110), U.S. Highway 78, Mississippi Highway 304, and a portion of U.S. Highway 82 have speed limits of 70 mph, with these lengths making up approximately 86% of the state's freeway mileage.\n\nA speed limit of 65 mph is typically used on the state's four-lane divided highways, which include parts of the following roadways:\n\nA speed limit of 60 mph is typically used in urban areas where a higher speed limit might be used, but traffic or geometric conditions constitute a lower speed limit, including the following areas:\n\nHouse Bill 3, passed during the 2008 First Extraordinary Session of the state legislature, permits speed limits up to on toll roads in the state; however, , no such road has been constructed.\n\nMississippi has a minimum speed of 30 mph on four-lane U.S. highways when no hazard exists. Strangely, there is no law for the minimum speed of the state's growing number of four-lane state highways. The minimum is 40 mph on Interstate Highways and on four-lane U.S. designated highways that have a 70 mph speed limit. In 2004, Mississippi posted minimum speed limits (40 mph) on all rural Interstates, but this minimum speed limit was already state law before then.\n\nStatutory speed limits in Missouri are as follows:\n\nFreeways are defined as: \"a limited access divided highway of at least ten miles in length with four or more lanes which is not part of the federal interstate system of highways which does not have any crossovers or accesses from streets, roads or other highways at the same grade level as such divided highway within such ten miles of divided highway.\"\n\nExpressways are defined as: \"a divided highway of at least ten miles in length with four or more lanes which is not part of the federal interstate system of highways which has crossovers or accesses from streets, roads or other highways at the same grade level as such divided highway.\"\n\nUrban Areas are defined as: \"an area of fifty thousand population at a density at or greater than one thousand persons per square mile\".\n\nThe highways and transportation commission may raise or lower the speed limit on these highways, but no speed limit may be set above 70 mph on a numbered highway and 60 mph on a lettered highway.\n\nInterstate highways have minimum speed limits of 40 mph. There have been talks of 75 mph being enforced on Interstate highways, but a bill allowing the law has yet to be enforced.\n\nMissouri concluded a two-year experiment with variable speed limits along I-270 around St. Louis. Digital signs had been erected along the freeway as well as additional signs alerting drivers about the use of variable speed limits. The limits will vary between 40 and 60 miles per hour, depending on traffic conditions, and could change by up to 5 mph every 5 minutes. These speed limits, as of January 2012, are now posted as \"Advisory Speed Limits\".\n\nDuring the closure and major rebuild of I-64 in St. Louis, an additional lane was added to I-44 and I-70, and the speed limit was thus reduced to 55 mph on those roads within the St. Louis County and City. The I-64 construction has been completed, and the extra lanes were removed in 2010. In October 2010, the speed limit was restored to 60 mph on both I-44 and I-70.\n\nMost two-lane roads with shoulders have a 60 mph speed limit in Missouri. Two-lane roads without shoulders are usually, but not always, limited to 55 mph. However, the following two-lane highways have a 65 mph speed limit when bypassing or outside of incorporated areas.\n\nMost rural expressways have a 65 mph speed limit, but the following have a 70 mph speed limit.\n\n\nMost Missouri lettered highways are 55 mph, and in densely populated areas they can be less. There are several that have a speed limit of 60 mph, though.\n\nIn the urban areas of: St. Louis, Kansas City, Columbia, St. Joseph, and Springfield, the speed limit typically drops to 60 mph on Interstates and freeways. In addition, on I-44 in Rolla the speed limit is reduced to 60 mph from just west of Exit 184 to Exit 186 because of a substandard design.\n\nFreeway speed limits in urban areas can be as low as 45 or 50 mph in a few very short sections in downtown Kansas City and St. Louis, or as high as 65 mph in the outer portions of the St. Louis, Kansas City and St. Joseph areas. The Cape Girardeau and Joplin areas have no reduced freeway speed limits, and I-435 around Kansas City has a 70 mph limit from I-35 in Claycomo to the Kansas State Line around the northern and western part of the metro area.\n\nI-29 in Kansas City has a limit of 70 mph north of Barry Road in Platte County to south of Highway 169 in Buchanan County where the limit drops to 65 mph. North of Frederick Road in Buchanan County the limit returns to 70 mph until the Iowa state line.\n\nAs of October 1, 2015, the maximum speed limit in Montana is 80 mph. On May 5, 2015, a bill to increase Montana's rural interstate highway speed limit to 80 mph was signed into law by Governor Steve Bullock.\n\nIn the years before the 1974 national 55 mph limit, and for three years after the 1995 repeal of the increased 65 mph limit, Montana had a non-numeric \"reasonable and prudent\" speed limit during the daytime on most rural roads. Montana Code Annotated (MCA) Section 61-8-303 said \"A person ... shall drive the vehicle ... at a rate of speed no greater than is reasonable and proper under the conditions existing at the point of operation ... so as not to unduly or unreasonably endanger the life, limb, property, or other rights of a person entitled to the use of the street or highway.\"\n\nMontana law also specified a few numeric limits: a night speed limit, usually 55 or 65 mph (89–105 km/h), depending on road type; 25 mph (40 km/h) in urban districts and 35 mph (56 km/h) in construction zones.\n\nThe phrase \"reasonable and prudent\" is found in the language of most state speed laws. This allows prosecution under non-ideal conditions such as rain or snow when the speed limit would be imprudently fast.\n\nOn March 10, 1996, a Montana patrolman issued a speeding ticket to a driver traveling at 85 mph (136 km/h) on a stretch of State Highway 200. The 50‑year‑old driver (Rudy Stanko) was operating a 1996 Chevrolet Camaro with less than 10,000 miles (16,093 km) on the odometer. Although the officer gave no opinion as to what would have been a reasonable speed, the driver was convicted. The driver appealed to the Montana Supreme Court. The Court reversed the conviction in case No. 97-486 on December 23, 1998; it held that a law requiring drivers to drive at a non-numerical \"reasonable and proper\" speed \"is so vague that it violates the Due Process Clause ... of the Montana Constitution\".\n\nEffective May 28, 1999, as a result of that decision, the Montana Legislature established a speed limit of 75 mph.\nSeven years later, a research study conducted by the Insurance Institute for Highway Safety, a long-time advocate of the federal National Maximum Speed Law, showed Montana's 75 mph speed limit on rural Interstates was well received by motorists; traffic speed measurements taken by IIHS showed 76 percent of cars in compliance with 75 mph on those roads. IIHS also found large trucks subject to Montana's unchanged 65 mph speed limit for large trucks on rural Interstates slowed down dramatically, from a mean speed of 70 mph in 1996 to 65 mph in 2006, with the 85th percentile large truck speed dropping 11 mph, from 79 mph in 1996 to 68 mph in 2006.\n\nDespite this reversal, Montana's then-governor, Marc Racicot, did not convene an emergency session of the legislature. Montana technically had no speed limit whatsoever until June 1999, after the Montana legislature met in regular session and enacted a new law. The law's practical effect was to require numeric speed limits on all roads and disallow any speed limit higher than 75 mph (121 km/h).\n\nMontana law still contains a section that says \"a person shall operate a vehicle in a careful and prudent manner and at a reduced rate of speed no greater than is reasonable and prudent under the conditions existing at the point of operation, taking into account the amount and character of traffic, visibility, weather, and roadway conditions.\" However, this is a standard clause that appears in other state traffic codes and has the practical effect of requiring a speed lower than the speed limit where a lower speed is necessary to maintain a reasonable and prudent road manner.\n\nMontana also has limited sections of night speed limits. Other speed limits in Montana are 15-35 mph in a school zone, 30 mph in a residential district, 35-45 mph on boulevards, 55 mph on traffic-light highways, 65-70 mph on rural divided 4-lane highways, and 55-70 mph on rural 2-lane undivided highways.\n\nThe maximum speed limit in Nebraska is 75 mph on rural Interstate highways. This speed limit only applies to Interstate 80 between Omaha and Lincoln, and west of Lincoln to the Wyoming state line, as well as the small section of Interstate 76 that enters the southwestern corner of the state from Colorado to join I-80. Freeways and expressways in urban areas are posted at 65 mph. The speed limit in rural areas of Nebraska is 65 mph unless otherwise posted, although rural divided highways and Super two highways are posted at 70 mph. The most recent change to Nebraska's speed limits was enacted on April 17, 2018, which resulted in all maximum speed limits in the state (except those for rural Interstate highways) being raised by five miles per hour.\n\nThe maximum speed limits in Nevada are on rural freeways, on other rural divided highways, on primary undivided roads, and on urban freeways.\n\nPrior to the imposition of the speed limit in late 1973, Nevada also had a \"reasonable and proper\" speed Limit (non-numeric) on most of its rural highways, both freeway and others. The speed limit on certain two-lane highways is 70 mph including US 95 to the Oregon border (where the speed limit drops to 65 mph for trucks) and on certain sections of US 6 and 50 as they cross the Nevada desert. Speed limits are 15 to 25 mph in school zones and 25 to 30 mph in residential districts. In 2015, the Nevada State Legislature voted to increase the statewide maximum speed limit to 80 mph to take effect in October of that year. However, between October 2015 and May 2017, no 80 mph speed limits were posted in the state.\n\nOn May 8th, 2017, the Nevada DOT installed 80 mph speed limit signs on the 130 mile stretch of I-80 between Fernley and Winnemucca, excluding the Lovelock (exits 106 and 107) area.\n\nOn February 21st, 2018, the Nevada DOT increased the speed limit on I-80 to 80 mph between Oasis and West Wendover.\n\nThe highest speed limit in New Hampshire is . It can be found on Interstate 93 from mile marker 45 to the Vermont border (excluding the Franconia Notch Parkway). All other freeways and turnpikes have a maximum of 65 mph. The minimum speed on Interstate Highways in New Hampshire is 45 mph where posted.\n\nProvided that no hazard exists that requires lower speed, the speed of any vehicle not in excess of the limit is deemed to be \"prima facie\" lawful. The limit for \"rural residential districts\" and Class V highways outside the city or town compact is 35 mph. The limit for any \"business or urban residence district\" is 30 mph. School zones receive a 10 mph reduction in the limit 45 minutes before and after the beginning and end of a school day. The speed limit for a road work or construction area is 10 mph lower than the normal speed limit, but not more than 45 mph, when work is in progress. The speed limit for all other locations is 55 mph. The minimum limit that a speed can be set in a rural or urban district is 25 mph.\n\nThe speed limit on Interstate 93 through Franconia Notch State Park falls to 45 mph where the highway narrows to one lane in each direction, but rises back to 70 mph (in 10 mph increments going south) once the highway leaves Franconia Notch. Interstate 393 in Concord has a 55 mph posted speed limit for its entire length, with the exception of 45 mph and 35 mph zones on the westbound portion closest to the city center and the end of the highway. Interstate 293's speed limit through downtown Manchester falls to 50 mph as it runs along the Merrimack River, but increases to 55 mph on either side of the city center.\n\nPrior to 1974, the New Hampshire Turnpike, along with rural sections of Interstates 89 and 93, were posted at 70 mph.\n\nNew Jersey's only statutory speed limits are 50 mph rural, 25 mph urban. Since the state is largely suburbanized, it ranges between 25–50 mph depending the jurisdiction of the road and whether the municipality is township, village, borough or city status.\n\nThe common limited access freeway speed limit is 65 mph. However, shorter length freeways such as US 202, Route 15, and Route 33 remain at 55 mph. In all 65 mph speed zones, the fines for speeding and other moving violations are doubled. This was the condition set for higher speed limits in New Jersey back in the late 1990s. Urban freeway speed limits are 50 to 55 mph. However, some freeways in urban areas retain a 65 mph speed limit such as the New Jersey Turnpike up to Exit 13 (Interstate 278), I-80 from the Delaware Water Gap (Exit 4) to the Passaic River (Exit 53) and I-78 from the Delaware River to the Newark border (Exit 55). Only the New Jersey Turnpike has variable speed limits on its entire length.\n\nFour lane or greater state highways (often with a jersey divider or grass median) are generally posted at 55 mph (Such as Route 73 from CR 544 in Evesham Township to the Atlantic City Expressway). County four-lane highways and municipal maintained four-lane roads (with a jersey divider or grass median) are not posted above 50 mph.\n\nTwo-lane rural state highways and county maintained roads generally have 40 to 50 mph limits. The only two lane surface roads posted at 55 mph in New Jersey are County Route 539, Route 70, and Route 72 in the Pine Barrens of Ocean and Burlington Counties and Route 54 in Atlantic County. The Route 33 Freehold Bypass section where it is a super two freeway is also 55 mph.\n\nUrban two lane roads in boroughs and cities are typically 25 mph or 35 mph. Residential streets at the municipal or county level are generally posted at 25 mph speed limits in boroughs and cities. However, they can be as high as 40 to 45 mph at the county level, less likely in municipal maintained roads. Generally, anything above 40 mph becomes uncommon. However, there are a handful of 45 mph residential stretches such as Terill Road in Scotch Plains and Woodbridge Avenue (CR 514) in Edison. All rural non posted roads have a speed limit of 50 mph, as per state law.\n\nSchool zones through urban and suburban areas on two lane roadways normally have a speed limit of 25 mph when children are present. However, this limit can be as low as 20 mph and as high as 35 mph in some areas.\n\nWith the exception of wartime, New Mexico had no default numeric speed limit until the early 1950s. Prior to the national 55 mph limit in 1974, the speed limit on rural Interstates was 75 miles per hour during the day and 70 mph at night. Primary highways in open areas had daytime speed limits of 70 mph and nighttime ones of 60 mph. Secondary highways in open areas had daytime speed limits of 60 mph and nighttime ones of 50 mph. Before the end of federal speed controls, the maximum speed limit was 65 mph on Interstate routes and 55 mph elsewhere. In May 1996 legislation enacted by Governor Gary Johnson raised the absolute speed limit in New Mexico to 75 mph. Signs are posted on the vast majority of the mileage of Interstate routes to that effect. The default speed limit for any road where no speed limit is posted is 55 mph.\n\nNew Mexico has six major freeway facilities, which include three lengthy Interstate routes. Part of US-70 (as a divided highway) between Las Cruces and Alamogordo is the only section of non-Interstate route as well as being the only road in New Mexico that's not a freeway to have the 75 mph limit; New Mexico, Nevada (US 95 south of US 93), and Texas are the only three states with 75 mph limits on roads that aren't freeways. There is no statutory requirement for reduced speeds on urban freeways so that, for example at Santa Fe and Las Vegas the speed limit remains 75 mph on I-25. New Mexico, Kansas, North Dakota, Colorado, and Texas are the only states to have a speed limit greater than 70 mph in urban highways. Nonetheless, there are 65 mph limits on freeways in more heavily urbanized areas such as Albuquerque and Las Cruces. Other reduced speed limits do exist, but the lowest speed limit under normal conditions on New Mexico's freeways is 55 mph, which can be found on two sections of Interstate 25: The first section being three miles from the Big I to Gibson Boulevard in Albuquerque, and the second being a short stretch near Raton Pass. These particular stretches of I-25 were originally built as relocations of US-85, whose design and construction predate the interstate highway era. As such, these stretches do not meet modern interstate highway standards, and have closely spaced interchanges, sharp curves, and/or limited sight distances.\n\nBy statute, other state maintained roads may have speed limits of up to 75 mph. Four-lane divided highways in open areas often have 65 mph limits, with some 70 mph limits, such as almost the entire length of US 550 from Bloomfield to Bernalillo. There is a trend toward posting a 70 mph limit on these highways, such as the recent 70 mph speed limit posting (increased from 65 mph) on a 23-mile stretch of U.S. 70 west of Roswell.\n\nPrimary two-lane highways in open areas with parking shoulders often have 65 mph limits.\n\nMost primary two-lane highways without parking shoulders in open and mixed rural areas still have a 55 mph limit, but some have 60 mph limits.\n\nA 65 mph left lane minimum speed limit is sometimes indicated on 75 mph roads with steep grades, \"slower traffic keep right\" is also in effect. On one-way roadways state law reserves the left and center lanes of two or more lanes for passing. There are reduced advisory speed limits for some roads during poor weather. Speeding fines are doubled in construction zones and designated safety corridors, with signs often stating this. There are no longer night speed limits, nor are there any differential speed limits for heavy trucks.\n\nThere are two other statutory speed limits in New Mexico that are often altered, especially on urban arterials or even city or countywide: thirty miles per hour in a \"business or residence district\" and fifteen miles per hour near schools at certain times. For example, in Albuquerque the default speed limit is thirty miles per hour as per state law, but many streets have a different speed limit. Some school zones there have twenty miles per hour speed limits. The city of Santa Fe's default speed limit is twenty five miles per hour. Although there are no signs to make drivers aware of the altered limit, the limit is signed on most roads where it applies. Los Alamos County alters the urban default and absolute speed limits to twenty five miles per hour and 50 mph respectively, but posts signs at county lines.\n\nOutside of Bernalillo County, no points are assessed to one's license for speeding in rural areas in New Mexico, unless the excessive speed was a contributing factor to a traffic accident.\n\nSpeed limits are statutory (set by law) or regulatory (enacted by regulation), not necessarily by engineering standards. New York has a blanket statutory \"Reasonable and Prudent\" speed law.\n\nThe highest posted speed limit in New York is 65 mph (105 km/h), found only on limited-access freeways (including some state highways, most of the New York State Thruway and select Interstate Highways). The default speed limit, posted as the \"State Speed Limit\", is 55 mph, which is in effect unless otherwise posted or in the absence of speed limit signs.\n\nThe New York State Department of Transportation sets speed limits in the vast majority of the state. Counties and most towns must petition DOT to change a speed limit. State law allows villages, cities, towns with more than 50,000 residents, and certain towns defined by law to be \"suburban\" to set speed limits on state, county, and local roads within their borders.\n\nThere is no state law regarding minimum speed limits, but minimum speed limit of 40 mph has been set on the entire length of Interstate 787 and the entire length of Interstate 495 (the Long Island Expressway). The New York State Thruway does not have a firm minimum speed, but there are signs advising drivers to use their flashers when traveling at speeds below 40 mph.\n\nWhile New York does not have truck speed restrictions \"per se\", the New England Thruway (Interstate 95) features \"State Speed Limit 55\" signs right next to \"Truck Speed Limit 50\" signs.\n\nNew York law allows area speed limits. An area speed limit applies to all highways within a specified area, except those specifically excluded. The area may be an entire municipality, or only a specific neighborhood. The defined area may also be the grounds of a school, hospital, or other institution. Area speed limits are signed at their perimeters with signs reading \"Area Speed Limit\" and the speed limit value shown below. \"Area\" may be replaced with a term that more precisely defines the area boundaries, such as \"Town\", \"City\", \"Park\", \"Village\" or \"Campus\".\nNormally, the end of a lowered speed limit is marked with a sign reading \"State Speed Limit 55\", indicating that the statewide speed limit applies. In areas where a curve or other road condition makes the state speed limit inadvisable, a sign reading \"End XX m.p.h. Limit\" may be used, with XX replaced with the speed limit value. A \"State Speed Limit 55\" sign should be installed after the curve. This sign is sometimes misused in locations where the speed limit changes to a speed other than 55 mph. This is mainly applied on both undivided and divided rural non-freeway routes. Though rarely seen, some divided roadways are set as low as 45 mph but mainly stay at the state speed limit of 55 mph; in one exceptional case, that of the Scajaquada Expressway, the speed limit was lowered to 30 mph in 2016 after a fatality.\n\nThe top speed limit in most residential/urban and business district areas is at 30 mph, and state law prohibits speed limits below 25 mph on most common residential areas, though a speed limit of 25 is mainly only used in the New York City area and rarely seen outside of said area. However, School speed limits may be set as high as 30 mph to as low as 20 mph. New York City has established a number of 20 mph \"Neighborhood Slow Zones\" in residential neighborhoods. In residential neighborhood areas outside of New York City range between 30–40 mph and 35–45 mph on suburban/urban arterial routes.\n\nNew York's Criminal Procedure Law prevents law enforcement personnel from issuing a ticket for any offense that they did not witness personally, meaning that, among other ramifications, the state's electronic toll collection system can not be used for speed enforcement.\n\nMany expressways and parkways in the New York City suburbs were posted as high as 65 mph. During the 1973 Oil Embargo, New York lowered its speed limit to 50. The National Maximum Speed Law brought statewide speed limits up to 55. The city of New York, being a city, retained the 50 mph speed limit. New York did not take advantage of the 1987 Congressional provision allowing 65 mph zones on rural freeways, instead waiting until NMSL's repeal in late 1995 (actually, portions of the NY State Thruway, I-88, I-84 {west of the Hudson River}, I-81 and the Adirondack Northway {I-87 north of exit 7} were increased to 65 mph on August 1, 1995, prior to the elimination of the NMSL).\n\nUntil September 2003, the state legislature needed to approve individual 65 mph zones, a lengthy process taking months or years of politically motivated debate. Then-Governor George Pataki signed legislation in September 2003 that enables NYSDOT and New York State Thruway Authority to raise speed limits to 65 mph on its roads that meet established design and safety standards. This legislation became active in March 2004, and was the reason for the 65 zones on NY Route 7 (locally known as \"Alternate Route 7\"), Interstate 684 and Interstate 84 east of the Hudson River in New York.\n\nAlong rural primary and secondary roads outside municipal limits in North Carolina, the statutory speed limit is 55 mph unless otherwise posted. Prior to the National Maximum Speed Law that went into effect nationwide, North Carolina used to have 60 mph speed limits on two-lane primary and secondary roads. Inside the municipal limits, the statutory speed limit is 35 mph unless otherwise posted. The downtown statutory speed limit is 20 mph unless otherwise posted. \"Reduce Speed Ahead\" (RSA) signage is the norm whenever the speed limit drops at any level. Note that the NC DOT uses the imperative verb \"reduce\" instead of the adjectival form \"reduced\" that is standard in other states, although some municipalities now use \"reduced\" in their signs. In addition, a speed limit drop of 15 mph or greater normally includes a second warning sign after the RSA. For example, in a 55 mph zone, a sign prior to the RSA sign would say \"BEGIN 35 1000 FEET AHEAD\" and then the 35 mph posted speed limit. Three to eight lane boulevards with or without center turn lanes, range from 35 mph to 50 mph within municipal limits statewide.\n\nIt is rare that NCDOT will assign a speed drop greater than 20 mph. In Bertie County, the US 17 bypass in Windsor drops from 70 mph to 45 mph. In Moore County, Shady Lane Road outside of Carthage in the Hillcrest community drops from 55 mph to 30 mph.\n\nSchool zone speed limits generally entail a 10 to 20 mph reduction below the original speed limit during times of day used for school arrivals and departures. Such a speed limit would be indicated when entering the school zone. Also, the default or modified speed limit is indicated after leaving the school zone. A school zone speed limit cannot be less than 20 mph.\n\nMilitary bases are generally posted at a maximum of 50 mph. As of May 2010, Fort Bragg military two-lane roadways are now posted at 55 mph instead of 50 mph. Prior to May 2010, the speed limits higher than 50 mph through military bases were only on N.C. Highway 690 along the north side of Fort Bragg, Murchison Road (also known as N.C. Highway 210) and the All American Freeway (which is classified and numbered as a state-maintained secondary road even though it is a freeway).\n\nThe state park speed limit is 25 mph unless otherwise posted. These are not limited to places such as Hanging Rock State Park and Mount Mitchell State Park. The Blue Ridge Parkway is 45 mph. However, there are occasional 35 mph stretches. The National Park Service is responsible for highway maintenance and speed enforcement on the Parkway.\n\nThe county governments of North Carolina do not have any control over speed limits or any other aspect of road operation, as there are no county roads in the state. Municipalities, on the other hand, can set speed limits on city-controlled roadways, subject to applicable state laws. Freeways and expressways with no primary route number are part of the state secondary road system and bear route numbers of 1000 or greater. Their maximum posted speed limit is 55 mph with four exceptions.\n\nA speed limit of 70 mph is relatively uncommon in much of metropolitan North Carolina, though it applies to many rural interstate highways in the state, as well as several non-interstate freeways. The following are the only roads with 70 mph limits:\n\n\nThese lengths make up approximately 589 miles, or 27%, of the total freeway mileage in North Carolina (405 miles or 31% of the state's growing Interstate system). Four-lane freeway-grade highways are generally posted at 65 mph through the state of North Carolina.\n\nInterstate freeways with 60 mph speed limits are found along on I-26 between Asheville and Hendersonville and north of Asheville to Tennessee; I-40 between Asheville and Waynesville and through Greensboro; on I-85 in Gaston (east of US 321 to the Mecklenburg County line) and Mecklenburg counties and through Durham; on I-440 along the northern half of Raleigh's Beltline\n\nNon-Interstate Freeways (US Highways) with 60 mph speed limits are found along on the US 1 Henderson Bypass (as of December 2011); US-23 Waynesville Bypass; US 64 over the Virginia Dare Memorial Bridge between Manns Harbor and Manteo; US 74 Laurinburg bypass and in Brunswick County from the Leland Industrial Park to NC 133; US 301/Business 95 between Fayetteville and Eastover; the US-311 High Point Bypass and the US-401 Fayetteville bypass.\n\nOnly two State Secondary Road freeways in the state that has a 60 mph speed limit are the Wade Avenue Extension as of February 2012 and Aviation Parkway (from south of Globe Rd to Airport Blvd) as of July 2014, which are both in Raleigh.\n\n60 mph speed limits along non-freeway segments are growing in popularity and have replaced 55 mph limits on several boulevard and expressway segments throughout the state. The boulevard speed limit changes go against the NCDOT rationale behind signing 60 mph speed limits along only freeway and expressway segments. As of June 1, 2008, some examples of the affected boulevards are US 17 north of Elizabeth City, US 74 east of Wadesboro and NC 11 in Pitt County.\n\n60 mph speed limits along Expressways are US 1 in northeastern Moore County, US 17 on bypass routes in Brunswick County, US 74 east of I-95, US 117 in Wayne County & Duplin County, US 220 in Rockingham County only along bypass segments and on NC 16 in Lincoln and Catawba counties (as of October 2012). Previously, the entire US 220 alignment from NC 68 to the Virginia state line was 60 mph but went back to 55 mph between NC 68 and NC 704.\n\nThree State Secondary road expressways in the state that have a 60 mph speed limit are the US 117 Connector in Sampson and Duplin Counties between US 117 and I-40 (The designation in Sampson County leaving I-40 towards Duplin County is SR 1783/Connector Road) and the un-numbered connector northwest of Kinston serving the Global Transpark.\n\nThere is a default minimum speed limit on Interstate and primary highways only when signs are present. The minimum is 40 mph if the maximum is 55 mph. The minimum is 45 mph if the maximum is at least 60 mph. These minimums do not apply to vehicles that are towing other vehicles.\n\nNorth Carolina as well as other states operates a Safe Driving Incentive Plan (SDIP), a program that leads to insurance surcharges for moving violations based on a point system. In general, for speeding violations less than 10 mph over the posted speed limit in a speed zone less than 55 mph, one point is assessed; two points are assessed for exceeding 10 mph over the limit or speeding in a zone with a speed limit of greater than 55 mph.\n\nA driver's licence will be suspended for travelling faster than 15 mph over the speed limit, provided the speed travelled is greater than 55 mph; suspensions can result for other speeding infractions, such as travelling faster than 75 mph in a 65 mph or less zone or faster than 80 mph in a 70 mph zone.\n\nNorth Dakota's major interstates, I-29 and I-94, hold a 75 mph speed limit in most rural areas, with 55-75 mph zones within portions of the Fargo and Bismarck/Mandan urban areas (I-29 in Grand Forks is signed at 75 mph). The state's 4 lane Divided Highways as well as 2 short stretches of undivided 4 lane highways (US 2 around Rugby and U.S. 83 as it passes the eastern Lake Sakakawea Reservoir) usually carry a 70 mph limit, with 2 lane restricted to up to a 65 mph limit, and gravel roads have up to 55 mph limits. Roads within cities hold their own defined limits with 25 MPH speed limits common in residential streets and 25-40 mph limits on Urban 4-6 lane divided and undivided streets, with school zones at 15–25 mph.\n\nOn January 3, 2017, a bill was introduced to increase the rural speed limit on I-29 and I-94 to 80 mph. The bill also would have called for 75 mph speed limits on 4-lane divided highways and 70 mph speed limits for two lane roads. However state Senate rejected both bills.\n\nThe speed limit in the Northern Mariana Islands is 45 mph (72 km/h).\n\nThe maximum speed limit found on highways in Ohio is on the Ohio Turnpike, Rural Freeways, and both the Expressway and Freeway portions of US 30 from Mansfield, Ohio to the Indiana State Line and US 33 from Wapakoneta to St. Mary's Ohio. The speed limit ranges from to on other divided highways. A small portion of the westbound lane (less than 500 feet) of State Route 16 in Licking County is signed at 70 MPH slightly before the route upgrades from a two-lane non-divided to a four-lane divided highway, but otherwise, no non-divided highway in the state currently has a speed limit higher than , though ODOT is now permitted to increase undivided roads to .\n\nOhio is the only state east of the Mississippi River to allow 70 mph speed limits on non freeway roads. Both divided and non divided roads.\n\nOhio has an urban speed limit of on Interstates by state law, yet many urban areas have lower speed limits due to safety concerns found in speed studies. These commonly are in the 50–60 mph range. For instance, in most of metro Dayton and Cincinnati, as well as in downtown Columbus, the speed limit is , while in Cleveland, Toledo, and Akron the speed limit is ; however, in central Cleveland along the Inner Belt, the speed limit is . On one case, however, the Ohio Turnpike has a in the outer suburbs of Toledo, Akron, and Cleveland, even since all 241 miles of the highway has the 70 mph speed limit. Some urban areas are also posted with minimum speed limits, usually with a minimum of 40 or 45. At one time, portions of Interstate 76 and Interstate 77 in downtown Akron had a maximum speed limit of 50 mph and a minimum speed limit of 35 mph.\n\nSchool zones in Ohio normally have a 20 mph speed limit, regardless of the road's normal speed limit, in effect during school hours.\n\nIn Oklahoma, the maximum posted speed limit is 75 miles per hour on turnpikes and 70 mph on all other freeways. Most other rural highways, divided or undivided, have a 65 mph speed limit (although some rural divided highways have a 70 mph limit). The minimum speed limit on almost all Interstate Highways, freeways, and turnpikes is 40 mph, except when the speed limit is 75 mph (found only on turnpikes), in which case the minimum speed is 50 mph. In addition, rural sections of turnpike are supplemented with a sign warning \"no tolerance\". On May 9, 2016, Governor Fallin signed HB 3167 which removes numerical caps on rural highway speed limits in Oklahoma which takes effect in November 2016. Even with this bill the speed limits across the state are not expected to change because of budget issues in doing studies \n\nThe highest posted speed limit in Oregon is 70 mph on I-84 east of The Dalles, I-82 and US 95 (trucks 65 mph). Oregon state statutes allow for a maximum speed limit of 70 mph on rural interstate highways, and the law gives the Oregon Department of Transportation (ODOT) discretion to define which freeway segments to post the 70 mph speed limit. ODOT did not raise speed limits beyond 65 mph on other freeways, and strongly opposed legislative efforts to raise the maximum allowable speed limit. However, in July 2015, Governor Kate Brown signed a bill raising speed limits on several highways in eastern Oregon; the bill included provisions to raise the speed limit to 70 mph on I-84 and US 95. It was announced on October 6, 2017 that the truck speed limit will be increasing to 60 mph on rural interstate highways where the car speed limit is 65 mph as soon as new signs are posted.\n\nAlthough the speed limit can be raised to 70 mph based on engineering studies under current law, ODOT has not identified any freeway sections that it believes should be raised beyond the 65 mph limit. In 2004, ODOT had released an engineering study on the average and 85th percentile speeds on interstate highways. This study found that the 85th percentile speed on rural interstates by passenger cars was 71.1 mph with a statewide average of 66.3 mph. The engineering study recommended raising the speed limit on rural interstates to 70 mph. Despite this, ODOT initially refused to post the 70 mph limit due to safety concerns and its associated monetary costs; however, there appears to be no higher fatality levels in other states when the limit was raised. In all rural areas in Oregon, the speed limit is 55 unless otherwise posted.\n\nUntil 2002, Oregon state law required that all speed limit signs omit the word LIMIT from their display. The reasoning behind this was related to the explicit \"basic speed\" law that existed, which allowed citation for exceeding speeds \"too fast for conditions\" regardless of the posted speed. The typeface of the numerals on the signs varies greatly depending on which jurisdiction made the sign, due to its non-standardized design. In 2002, the Oregon Department of Transportation revised its supplement to the MUTCD, mandating the omission of the word LIMIT \"except\" on signs posted on Interstate highways and within city limits. As of 2014, ODOT has replaced nearly all SPEED signs posted on Interstates with SPEED LIMIT signs, but it was left to the various city governments to replace signs in their jurisdictions at their leisure, if at all. Thus, older SPEED signs are still a common sight across the state.\n\nThroughout the late 1990s the Oregon state legislature passed multiple bills that would have raised the speed limit to 75 miles per hour on rural Interstate Highways and up to 70 mph on certain rural two-lane highways in the eastern portions of the state. Each year Governor John Kitzhaber vetoed the bill due to safety concerns and he was worried that the 20 mph increase in car and truck speeds would raise road hazards. In 2003, the Oregon state legislature passed a bill that would have raised the maximum permissible speed limit on Interstate Highways to 70 mph for cars with a 5 mph differential for trucks, up from the previous 65 mph limit for cars with a 10 mph differential; this bill was signed into law by then newly elected Governor Ted Kulongoski on September 26, 2003. Although ODOT's 2004 study revealed that it is safe for cars to be traveling at 70 mph and trucks at 60 mph the Oregon Department of Transportation decided to not initially implement the increase out of concerns that it would not be safe to have trucks traveling at 65 mph. Prior to the National Maximum Speed Law, the speed limit on Oregon freeways was 75 mph with some 70 limits on two-lane roads in eastern portions of the state. On July 20, 2015, Governor Brown signed HB 3402 into law. This bill raises the speed limit on I-84 east of The Dalles, I-82 (HB 4047 signed 2/23/16) and US 95 to 70 mph for cars and 65 mph for trucks. It also increases speed limits on several other two lane rural highways to 65 mph for cars and 60 mph for trucks in Eastern Oregon. The law took effect on March 1, 2016.\n\nIn 2004, a law was passed revising Oregon's school speed limit laws. In school zones, on roads with speed limits of 30 mph or below, drivers were required to slow to 20 mph 24 hours a day, 365 days a year, regardless of whether or not children were present. This replaced most 'when children are present' placards. If the speed limit was 35 mph or higher, the school zone limit would be imposed either by flashing yellow lights or a placard denoting times and days of the week when the limit was in effect. The at-all-times rule was highly unpopular with motorists and was widely ignored. In 2006, the law was revised again, taking away the 'at all times' requirement and replacing it with a time-of-day system (usually school days, 7 a.m. to 5 pm). School crossings with flashing yellow lights remain. In many communities, school zones are strictly enforced and speed traps in these areas are commonly employed.\n\nODOT has not chosen a variation of speed between two-lane roads in Oregon, regardless of the terrain. Any rural two-lane road in the state has a default speed limit of 55 mph. Town speed limits are 20 mph in an alley, 20 mph in a school zone, 35 mph on boulevards, and 45 mph on roads with traffic lights.\n\nIn Pennsylvania the maximum freeway speed limit is generally 65 mph (105 km/h), with select sections of rural freeway and most of the Pennsylvania Turnpike signed at 70 mph (113 km/h), or 55 mph (89 km/h) such as most of standalone Interstate 70. The speed limit on urban freeways ranges from a low of 40 mph in downtown Pittsburgh and Philadelphia to a high of 70 mph in some suburban areas.\n\nIn 1940, when the Pennsylvania Turnpike was opened between Irwin and Carlisle, the entire 160 mile limited-access toll road did not have a speed limit, similar to that of the German Autobahns. In 1941, a speed limit of 70 mph (113 km/h) was established, only to be reduced to 35 mph (56 km/h) during the war years (1942–45). After WWII, the limit was raised to 70 mph on the four-lane sections, with the two-lane tunnels having 50 mph (80 km/h) for cars and 40 mph (64 km/h) for trucks. Prior to the 1974 federal speed limit law, all Interstates and the Turnpike had a 65 mph (105 km/h) speed limit on rural stretches and 60 mph (97 km/h) speed limit in urban areas.\n\nIn 1995, the state raised the speed limit on rural stretches of Interstate Highways and the Pennsylvania Turnpike system to 65 mph (105 km/h), with urban areas having a 55 mph (89 km/h) limit. In 1997, PennDOT raised the speed limit to some rural non-Interstate Highway bypasses to 65 mph (105 km/h). In 2005, with the change in the designation of \"urban zones\" in the state (actually the law eliminating the prohibition against 65 mph limits in urban areas was enacted in 2000. It took PennDOT and the PTC 5 years to realize the law had been changed), the entire lengths of both the Pennsylvania Turnpike's east–west mainline and Northeast Extension were given 65 mph (105 km/h) limits, except at the tunnels and through the very winding 5.5 mile (9 km) eastern approach to the Allegheny Mountain Tunnel.\n\nThe 70 mph speed limit was authorized by House Bill 1060, which was signed by Governor Tom Corbett on November 25, 2013. On July 18, 2014, the Pennsylvania Turnpike Commission announced the return of the 70 mph speed limit on a 97-mile stretch of the mainline from the Blue Mountain interchange (MP 201) to the Morgantown interchange (MP 298). Signs were erected on July 22, 2014. On July 23, 2014, PennDOT announced the speed limit will be increased to 70 mph on I-80 between interchange 101 in DuBois, Clearfield County and milepost 189 in Clinton County and on I-380 between interchange 8 (MP 10) near Mount Pocono, Monroe County and the junction with I-84 in Lackawanna County, on or around August 11, 2014 as a pilot project. On March 15, 2016, the Pennsylvania Turnpike Commission approved raising the speed limit on the remaining sections of the turnpike to ; sections that are posted at will retain that speed limit. On May 2, 2016, PennDOT announced that the speed limit will be increased to on about of roadway across the state, with conversion to take place on May 3. A total of of the Pennsylvania Turnpike system will increase from to , including the extensions in Southwestern Pennsylvania. The speed limit of the Pennsylvania Turnpike will remain within construction zones and tunnels, at mainline toll plazas, on the eastern approach of the Allegheny Mountain Tunnel, and between Bensalem and the Delaware River Bridge. The speed limit will also be increased to on of highway maintained by PennDOT, including rural stretches of I-79, I-80, I-99, I-380, and US 15.\n\nOn non-freeway roads, speed limits are generally held at 55 mph (89 km/h) for rural four-lane roads, 55 mph (89 km/h) for rural two-lane roads, 45–55 mph (72–89 km/h) for urban four lane roads and 40–45 (sometimes, but rarely, 50 mph)  mph (64–72 km/h) for urban two lane roads, 35–45 mph for roads in commercial business areas, 30-35 mph (56 km/h) for major roads in residential areas, 20-25 mph (40 km/h) for most municipal residential streets, including main north–south and east–west roads in county seats and other mid-sized to large towns, and 15-20 mph (24 km/h) for school zones during school arrival and departure times only. It is also only in effect on days that the school the road goes near is in session. Many schools have signs that blink when the school speed limit is in effect. There is no reduced school speed on divided highways, even if the school sits right beside the highway.\n\nAll state-owned two-lane roads in rural areas within Pennsylvania have a default speed limit of 55 mph unless otherwise posted.\n\nThe Pennsylvania Turnpike has a minimum speed limit of 15 mph below the posted maximum speed, though the minimum is only sporadically posted. This is not enforced for slow-moving trucks in areas with steep grades and signs are posted that instruct drivers to use their flashers if traveling below 50 mph (40 if the speed limit is 55). Pennsylvania has no default minimum speed limit on any other roads. However, minimum speed limits on certain highways may be enacted and posted as provided by Section 3364(c) of the Pennsylvania Motor Vehicle Code (Title 75 of the Pennsylvania Consolidated Statutes).\n\n§3364(a) also requires, \"Except when reduced speed is necessary for safe operation or in compliance with law, whenever any person drives a vehicle upon a roadway having width for not more than one lane of traffic in each direction at less than the maximum posted speed and at such a slow speed as to impede the normal and reasonable movement of traffic, the driver shall, at the first opportunity when and where it is reasonable and safe to do so and after giving appropriate signal, drive completely off the roadway and onto the berm or shoulder of the highway. The driver may return to the roadway after giving appropriate signal only when the movement can be made in safety and so as not to impede the normal and reasonable movement of traffic.\"\n\nDrivers cannot be stopped by police for driving less than 6 mph over the posted speed limit (10 mph if the speed limit is less than 55 mph and non-radar timing devices are used, as use of radar devices is limited to \"members of the Pennsylvania State Police\" by §3368c2).\n\nThe US territory of Puerto Rico regulates and posts speed limits in miles per hour, although highway signage for distances are in kilometers. Some people are hoping to have the speed limit in autopistas raised to 70 mph, along with 60 mph for trucks. Tolled \"Autopistas\" as of 2015, can have speed limits up to 65 mph, while other expressways have speed limits up to 60 mph. The rural default speed limit is 45 mph but may be increased to 55 mph. In residential areas, only multilane roads have limits up to 35 mph, other roads are restricted to a maximum speed of 25 mph. Only rural school zones have the higher 25 mph limit. Speed limits for \"heavy motor vehicles\", such as school buses, are always 10 mph lower than that allowed for lighter vehicles, except in urban school zones where the limit is 20 mph. Vehicles carrying hazardous materials are limited to 30 mph in rural areas and 20 mph in urban ones.\n\nAlong two-lane roadways, the default speed limit is 50 mph during the daytime outside a business or residential district. \"Daytime\" means a half-hour before sunset and a half-hour after sunrise. At night time and also uncommon on the East Coast, the default speed limit is 45 mph outside a business or residential district. Through the CBD and residential district, the default speed limit is 25 mph. Through school zones within 300 feet, the default speed limit is 20 mph. Local governments are barred from raising the default speed limits during the day and at night. Divided highways such as rural Interstates are generally posted at 65 mph but 55 mph closer to Providence. Divided arterials and expressways are posted no higher than 55 mph. This includes US 1 south of RI 4 to Westerly. A speed limit of 65 mph may be allowed on rural interstates based on engineering studies. Currently, however, the only interstates raised to 65 are Interstate 95 from exits 1-9 and Interstate 295.\n\nInterstate speed limits in South Carolina are posted at 70 mph. Interstates passing through \"Urban\" areas are dropped to 60 mph. The urban area assignment of 60 mph usually includes the metropolitan area and the actual inner city area. The three exceptions to the rule are I-385 in Greenville, the SC 31 freeway around Myrtle Beach and I-95 around Florence. I-385 has a 55 mph speed limit at its terminus within the Greenville area. SC 31 is posted at 65 mph even though it is in the greater Myrtle Beach area. SC 31 was originally posted at 60 mph when it was built in 2004. I-95 even as a 6 lane semi-urban built freeway, maintains a 70 mph speed limit through the Florence area (as of June 2013, from just south of exit 160 to just south of exit 164, the speed limit has been reduced to 60 mph, a textbook speed trap). It is 6 lanes from SC 327 to I-20.\n\nFour-lane arterials by default are posted at 60 mph. Four-lane bypasses at 60 mph can be found in Marion and Sumter, but others remain at 55 mph. It is not uncommon that 55 mph can be expected in more built-up areas prior to municipalities and/or if the engineering on the highway is below standards. However, U.S. Route 123 has a divided segment where the speed limit is 65 mph.\n\nTwo-lane roads are 55 mph by default. However, a handful of counties maintained as either state secondary roads or county roads are posted at 45 mph.\n\nCentral business districts (CBDs) are posted at 30 mph. Unlike North Carolina with their default downtown speed limit of 20 mph, they are rare to find in South Carolina in downtown areas. A recent trend is occurring with CBD speed limits that they are being signed at 25 mph in random municipalities around the state.\n\nSpeed limit drops generally are done in 10 mph increments but 20 mph are not uncommon. Improvements in the mid-2000s were done by SCDOT to warn motorists ahead of time for speed drops on various roadways. However, there are still some roadways that have not received that treatment. However, there are a couple roadways that get 25 mph to 30 mph drops as well. The speed limit drops from 55 mph to 25 mph at a traffic circle with US 378 and SC 391 in eastern Saluda County. On US 52 northbound approaching Kingstree, the speed limit drops from 60 mph to 35 mph\n\nShortly after the December 1995 repeal of the 65/55 mph National Maximum Speed Law, South Dakota raised its general rural speed limits to 75 mph on freeways and 65 mph on other roads along with 70 on a few 4 lane divided highways. Almost a decade after posting the 75 mph limit, average speeds on South Dakotan rural freeways remain at or below the speed limit. In the urban areas of Sioux Falls and Rapid city, a 65 mph speed limit is posted on Interstates 90 and 29. In March 2015, SD State Legislature has passed the bill to raise the speed limit on Interstate 29 and Interstate 90 to 80 mph. It was signed into law and took effect in April 2015. While the 80 MPH speed limit was initially signed on all rural freeways in the state, the Interstate 90 stretch from Rapid City to the Wyoming Border returned to 75 mph due to safety concerns.\n\nTennessee generally posts its rural interstates at 70 mph. These include all of the state's two-digit Interstates except Interstate 55 and Interstate 26. The only auxiliary interstates in Tennessee with a 70 mph speed limit are Interstate 155 and Interstate 840. 70 mph speed limits are allowed on all other controlled access highways, and are found on controlled-access portions of U.S. 51 and S.R. 22, 111, 386, and 396. In 70 mph zones, the default minimum speed limit is 55. Urban interstates are generally posted at 55 to 65 mph, however, portions of Interstates 24, 40, and 65 and S.R. 386 in Davidson County, as well as I-24 in Clarksville are posted at 70 mph. Four-lane divided highways are posted as high as 65 mph but are sometimes 55 mph. These are often hotbeds for speed camera enforcement leading into a municipality. 55 mph speed limits are allowed on two-lane state maintained roads, but some contain 45 and 50 mph limits, even in rural areas, primarily as a result of local policies. In East Tennessee, most mountain roads leading to North Carolina are poorly posted at 45 mph. Furthermore, two-lane roads such as US 321 and S.R. 91 have the same mountain and road width characteristics when leaving Tennessee into North Carolina or Virginia at 55 mph.\n\nInside a municipality, speed limit assignments are often a mystery on state-maintained roads. This could range from 15 to 55 mph depending on the type of roadway. This is because the state of Tennessee grants strong home rule powers to municipalities and Dillon's Rule for unincorporated areas in the county for speed limit assignments on non-controlled access state-maintained roads, requiring that they fall within established constraints. Unlike other states, this weakens TennDOT's ability to sign predictable speed limits in a reasonable and prudent matter. Also, Tennessee has a high percentage of roadways maintained by the counties.\n\nIn the 2000s, all of the major cities in Tennessee except for Nashville and Clarksville petitioned TDOT to enact environmental speed limits in their respective counties after failing to meet EPA air quality standards, reducing speed limits from 70 mph to 65 mph and 55 mph for trucks. Knox County (Knoxville) also petitioned the state to enact these speed limits in all of the neighboring counties of the Knoxville Metropolitan Area, as well as Jefferson County. These moves were controversial, as people believed the actual purpose was to increase revenue from speeding tickets, and the Tennessee Highway Patrol (THP) reportedly started enforcing these as 70 mph zones in the Knoxville area after multiple truckers successfully won court cases and had their tickets dismissed. In 2018, these speed limits in the Knoxville Area were increased back to 70. In Nashville, speed limits for freeways are posted at 55 mph at the center of the city, and 65 and 70 mph beyond, with no separate restrictions for trucks.\n\nPrior to 1974, the maximum speed limit on Tennessee's Interstate highways was 75 mph day or night for cars and 65 mph day or night for trucks. Other rural highways had a maximum speed limit of 65 mph day and 55 mph night for cars and 50 mph day or night for trucks. Many of these other class roadways also had separate day and night speed limits as well.\n\nTexas is the only state that does not prescribe a different speed limit for each road type in its state or federal highway system. Texas law generally prescribes a statutory speed limit of for any rural road that is numbered by the state or federal government (United States Numbered Highways and Interstate Highways)—whether two lane, four lane, freeway, or otherwise— for roads outside an urban district that are not federal or state highways, and for streets in an urban district.\n\nThe law allows raising or lowering the statutory limit only if an engineering and traffic investigation indicates that a different limit is appropriate. Texas allows a speed limit of up to to be posted on federal or state highways, city maintained roads, and toll roads, and up to on county roads. Through a separate provision, speed limits up to 80 or 85 mph can be established on certain highways.\n\nTexas once had separate, systemwide truck speed limits, but they were repealed in 1999 and 2011.\n\nThe truck speed limit used to be 60 mph (97 km/h) day/55 mph (89 km/h) night when the regular limit was higher. This speed limit did not apply to buses or to trucks transporting United States Postal Service mail.\n\nTruck speed limits disappeared when all speed limits were capped at 55 mph (89 km/h) in 1974. They reappeared with the introduction of 65 mph (105 km/h) limits in 1987.\n\nEffective September 1, 1999, Texas repealed truck speed limits on all roads except farm to market and ranch to market roads.\n\nIn 2001, a bill allowing 75 mph speed limit on roads in certain counties excluded trucks, introducing a 70 mph truck speed limit on roads with a higher limit. A bill in 2005 allowing 80 mph speed limits still excluded trucks. However, truck speed limits were fully repealed in 2011.\n\nBefore September 1, 2011, Texas had a statutory 65 mph (105 km/h) night speed limit on all roads with a higher daytime limit. In 2011, the Texas Legislature banned night speed limits effective September 1, 2011. However as of June 2013, night speed limits (55) were retained on some county roads where the speed limit is 60 mph in Scurry County, just outside of Snyder, Texas.\n\nTexas is the first state to lower speed limits for air quality reasons, although the lowered limits may not meaningfully improve air quality.\n\nIn roughly a 50-mile (80 km) radius of the Houston–Galveston and Dallas–Ft. Worth regions, the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality convinced the Texas Department of Transportation to reduce the speed limit on all roads with 70 mph (113 km/h) or 65 mph (105 km/h) speed limits by 5 mph. This was instituted as part of a plan to reduce smog-forming emissions in areas out of compliance with the federal Clean Air Act.\n\nInitial studies found that lower speed limits could provide roughly 1.5% of the emissions reductions required for Clean Air Act compliance. However, follow-up studies found that the actual reduction is far less:\nWith both of these facts combined, it is possible that the speed limit reductions only provide a thousandth of the total emissions reductions necessary for Clean Air Act compliance.\n\nIn mid-2002, all speed limits in the Houston–Galveston area were capped at 55 mph (89 km/h). Facing immense opposition, poor compliance, and the finding that lowered speed limits produced only a fraction of the originally estimated emissions reductions, the TCEQ relented and reverted to the 5 mph reduction scheme.\n\nDue to its enormous unpopularity, the Texas Commission on Environmental Quality examined alternatives to the 55 mph speed cap. Analysis suggested that the vast majority of emissions reductions were from reduced heavy truck emissions. A proposed alternative was to restore passenger vehicle limits but retain a 55 mph truck speed limit. Concerns about safety problems and enforceability of such a large differential (up to 15 mph on many roads) scuttled that proposal, and a compromise plan, described above, was enacted that retained uniform, but still reduced, speed limits.\n\nIn 2003, the Texas Legislature prospectively banned environmental speed limits, effective September 1, 2003. The wording of the bill allows environmental speed limits already in place to remain, but no new miles of roadway may be subjected to environmental speed limits.\n\nIn 2009, the North Texas Tollway Authority raised the speed limit by 10 mph on two tollways. Several miles of these tollways had 60 mph environmental speed limits. These new 70 mph limits exceeded what is allowable under the environmental speed limit regime. NTTA was allowed to raise the speed limits by offsetting the higher limits' theoretical emissions increases with other transportation-related emissions reduction measures, including implementation of all-electronic tolling, which eliminated the need for some vehicles to stop at a toll booth.\n\nIn 2015, the Texas Department of Transportation cancelled all remaining environmental speed limits in the Dallas-Fort Worth region. Some speed limits were changed back to those in place before the environmental speed limits were enacted. On some roads the speed limit was not changed. On other roads, including some that never had environmental speed limits, speed limits were raised higher than they were before the environmental speed limits were enacted.\n\nBecause Texas law allows 75 mph speed limits on any numbered state highway or city maintained road, it is the only state with 75 mph limits on two-lane roads. Speed studies undertaken by TxDOT in response to legislation passed in 2011 took about 2 years, and the result is that the mileage of highway with a speed limit of 75 mph has increased from about 1,400 to about 19,000. 70 mph speed limits have become rare on Texas interstates. They are retained in stretches of I-10 and I-35 in Bexar County, on I-410, on I-35 from San Antonio to Austin, and I-35W in Denton County well Most Texas interstates had been posted at 70 mph, notably in east Texas and the panhandle for 16 years from December 1995/early 1996 to early 2012. Also, there are multiple urban Interstates and Tollways in Texas where there can be a 75 mph speed limit such as parts of State Highway 45, I-20 in Odessa and Midland (prior to Feb 2016, it is now 65 mph on I-20 in Odessa-Midland), and I-10 in the outer parts of San Antonio\n\nTexas statutorily allows 80 mph (130 km/h) speed limits on I-10 and I-20 in certain counties named in the statute, each of which has a low population density. Additionally, the Texas Transportation Commission may set a speed limit up to 85 mph on any part of the state highway system if that part is \"designed to accommodate travel at that established speed or a higher speed\" and an \"engineering and traffic investigation\" determines the speed is \"reasonable and safe\".\n\nAs of now, the roads with an 80 mph limit are:\n\nAs of now, the only road with an 85 mph speed limit is a 41-mile portion of Texas State Highway 130 from the northern terminus of its concurrency with US-183 (), southward to I-10 near Seguin().\n\nFor \"motorcars, pick-up trucks, or motorcycles\", the fastest speed limit in this territory is 55 mph and is found on one road, the divided highway and freeway known as the Melvin H. Evans Highway on the island of St. Croix. Outside of towns, these vehicles are limited to 35 mph unless posted lower, except on the above-mentioned divided highway and parts of Centerline Road, which is limited to 40 mph. Within towns, these vehicles are limited to 20 mph.\n\n\"Motor trucks and buses\" are limited to 40 mph on St. Croix's main divided highway, 30 mph on other highways outside of towns, and 15 mph within towns.\n\nIn Utah, there is a minimum speed limit of 45 mph on Interstate Highways when conditions permit. The maximum speed limit on Interstates is normally 70 mph in cities and, on most highways, 80 mph elsewhere. UDOT has now implemented HB83, raising the speed limit to 80 mph on an additional 289 miles of rural interstate, including I-80 from Nevada to mile marker 99, I-84 from Idaho to I-15, and I-15 between Saint George, Utah and Mona, Utah.\n\nOn April 3, 2013, Utah Department of Transportation spokesman John Gleason said \"We’d only do it in a situation that would make sense: flat, straight roadways. The Utah Department of Transportation is looking at expanding zones where it can increase the speed limit from 75 to 80 miles per hour. The Utah State Legislature recently approved a bill allowing for a series of zones to become permanent, as well as expanding them in other places around the state. UDOT began a study on Monday (April 1, 2013) to place more zones on rural parts of I-15, I-80 and I-84. The areas under consideration, UDOT spokesman said, are on I-80 from Grantsville (exit 99) to Wendover, on the Utah-Nevada border; I-84 from Tremonton to the Utah-Idaho border; I-15 from Brigham City (North interchange) to the Utah-Idaho border; and I-15 from Santaquin to North Leeds.\" The speed limit on these sections has been increased from 80 mph as of September 17, 2013.\n\nOn February 13, 2014, UDOT voted to increase the speed limit on I-80 from Salt Lake City across the Bonneville Salt Flats to the Nevada border to . The change went into effect on July 1, 2014. By July 1, 2014, the state raised the speed limit on all rural interstates in Utah to 80 mph except I-80 from the Wyoming border to Salt Lake City, on I-84 from its junction with I-80 to Ogden and on twisty sections of Interstate 70 from its I-15 junction to the Colorado border (the speed limit on I-70 still varies between 60 mph and 80 mph depending on the topography of the section of freeway.). The speed limit on every other highway is 55 mph unless otherwise posted, although several two-lane, undivided roads have 65 mph speed limits, with divided sections of U.S. Route 40 and U.S. Route 189 posted at 65 mph as well.\n\nBy the end of 2016, UDOT raised speed limits to 80 mph on additional sections of I-15 and I-70.\n\nThe standard speed limit in Vermont stands at 50 mph. This is applied to rural two-lane roads. On urban freeways, divided at-grade expressways, and rural two-lane limited access roads, the speed limit is 55 mph, such as on I-189 and Interstate 89 in Burlington, and US Route 7 and Vermont State Route 279 outside of Bennington. Rural freeways are posted at 65 mph. Furthermore, the speed limit drops from 65 mph on rural highways to 40 mph at the approach to the Canada–US border on Interstates 89 and 91, at Highgate and Derby Line, respectively. In school zones, the speed limit can range from 20 mph to 25 mph, depending on local authority. The minimum speed is defined at 40 mph only on Interstate highways. That includes where the limit is posted at 55 and 65 mph. However, as old signs are being replaced, the \"40 MINIMUM\" is being phased out, keeping only \"SPEED LIMIT 65\".\n\nA Virginia statute provides that the default speed limit \"shall be 55 mph on interstate highways or other limited access highways with divided roadways, nonlimited access highways having four or more lanes, and all state primary highways\". \"The maximum speed limit on all other highways shall be 55 miles per hour if the vehicle is a passenger motor vehicle, bus, pickup or panel truck, or a motorcycle, but 45 miles per hour on such highways if the vehicle is a truck, tractor truck, or combination of vehicles designed to transport property, or is a motor vehicle being used to tow a vehicle designed for self-propulsion, or a house trailer.\"\n\nThe same statute contains a number of exceptions, however, allowing higher speed limits \"where indicated by lawfully placed signs, erected subsequent to a traffic engineering study and analysis of available and appropriate accident and law-enforcement data\". This provision allows speed limits of up to 70 mph on Interstate highways; multilane, divided, limited-access highways; and express or high-occupancy vehicle lanes if said lanes are physically separated from the regular travel lanes. (As of August 2015, Virginia has three such barrier-separated facilities: high-occupancy vehicle lanes on I-64 in the Tidewater area; as well as high-occupancy/toll \"Express Lanes\" on I-495 and I-95, and HOT/HOV lanes on I-395, all in Northern Virginia.) The statute also allows 60-mph speed limits on a number of specified non-limited access, multilane, divided highways.\n\nThe 70-mph provision was added to Section 46.2-870 via an amendment effective on July 1, 2010. The previous version of the statute had authorized a 70-mph speed limit only on I-85; the maximum limit permitted elsewhere was 65 mph. Notably, the revised statute does not \"require\" a 70-mph speed limit on any road nor make such limit automatic, due to the requirement for traffic and engineering studies. The Virginia Department of Transportation began studying Interstate highways with 65-mph speed limits during April 2010 to determine which roads should receive the 70-mph limit and announced that the studies would be conducted in three phases over a period of several months, with the initial phase focusing on 323 miles of highway with \"no significant levels of crashes and congestion\". As of July 1, 2010, VDOT increased the speed limit to 70 mph on a portion of one highway (I-295 south of I-64). On October 20, 2010, Governor Bob McDonnell announced that by the end of 2010, VDOT would post 70-mph speed limits on 680 miles of Virginia Interstates located outside of urban areas, representing 61 percent of Virginia's total 1,119 miles of Interstate highways. While the statute allows for speed limits up to 70 mph on urban Interstates, as of March 2015 VDOT has declined to post a limit higher than 65 mph on any urban highway other than I-295 in Richmond.\n\nThe statute also allows 70-mph speed limits on routes other than Interstates. Initially VDOT declined to consider any such routes for the higher limit, but in early 2012 VDOT posted a 70-mph limit on a portion of US-29 near Lynchburg.\n\nOther Virginia statutes prescribe exceptions to the general rules set forth above. The notable aspect of Virginia's current speed limit laws is that the Department of Transportation has no authority to raise speed limits above the statutory limits unless the General Assembly passes a statute permitting the change. Since the National Maximum Speed Law was repealed in 1995, such statutory exceptions were largely confined to a highway-by-highway basis, as evidenced by the list of 60-mph exceptions in Va. Code § 46.2-870.\n\nNotably, Virginia's reckless driving statute provides that driving 20 mph over the speed limit, or in excess of 80 mph regardless of the posted speed limit, is grounds for a reckless driving ticket. Thus, in a 70-mph zone traveling 11 mph over the speed limit is prosecutable as a misdemeanor with penalties of up to a $2,500 fine and/or 12 months in jail.\n\nVirginia law does not prescribe a fixed minimum speed limit, although a statute does authorize the posting of such limits where traffic and engineering studies indicate that they would be appropriate.\n\nVirginia is the only state that prohibits the use of radar detectors (the District of Columbia does as well, though it is not a state).\n\nEffective July 1, 2018, higher speed limits (60 mph) should be coming to the expressway portions of U.S. 301, U.S. 501 between South Boston and the NC line (HB 55) and more sections of U.S. 17. In addition expressway portions of VA routes 3 and 207 are scheduled to see increases to 60 mph. (SB 466, HB 73 and 684.)\n\nThe speed limit on Wake Island is 40 mph (64 km/h).\n\nThe Revised Code of Washington permits speed limits of 75 mph in sections deemed appropriate by an engineering study. As of February 2016, the typical speed limit on a Washington freeway is 70 mph rural, 60 mph urban (the speed limits on these types of freeways only vary in the Tri Cities), with a truck speed limit no higher than 60 mph. The posted truck speed limit does not apply to any auto stage towing a trailer or trucks less than 10,000 pounds gross weight. Limits were raised to current speeds following the elimination of the federal 55 mph speed limit, to more closely reflect the common speeds of traffic at that time. However, Washington State does not have a standard legislated statewide speed limit, leaving it to WSDOT to set individual speed limits for specific segments of road. This has resulted in a wide range of speed limits statewide, with many rural undivided 2 lane highways set at 65 mph, while some congested urban divided highways have limits as low as 40 mph.\n\nThe default speed limit on a rural 2-lane highway in Washington is 60; however, the limit on undivided highways varies. In mountainous country like the Cascades and Olympic Mountains, certain twisty roads are limited to 55 mph, whereas some flat, straight highways in eastern Washington have a limit of 65. The speed limit for motorhomes and autos with trailers is 60 like it is for trucks. Roads with traffic lights are limited to 55 mph. The school zone speed limit is 20 mph but is in effect only if children are present. Divided highways in Washington are rare, however, U.S. Route 395 between Pasco and Ritzville is a high-speed divided highway with a maximum speed limit of 70 mph.\n\nSome areas within Washington State use variable speed limits such as on portions of I-90 between Seattle and Issaquah and over Snoqualmie Pass.\n\nOn January 23rd, 2017, the WSDOT considered raising the speed limit on I-90 between Ellensburg and Spokane to 75 mph, but decided to retain the 70 mph limit.\n\nThe speed limit on most rural Interstates is 70 mph. Urban Interstate speed limits generally vary from 55 mph to 65 mph. Sections of I-64 and I-68 have lower truck speed limits because of steep grades; otherwise, West Virginia does not post separate truck speed limits. The West Virginia Turnpike between Chelyan and Mahan has a 60 mph speed limit because of sharp curves.\n\nSpeed limits on 4-lane divided highways are normally 65 mph although some stretches within cities are posted as low as 50 mph. Open country highways have a statutory limit of 55 mph, which includes most rural two-lane highways and even includes some one lane back country roads or any road without a posted speed limit. Cities and towns set their own speed limits, which are usually between 25 and 55 mph. School zones have a statutory speed limit of 20 mph. Speed limits are commonly reduced by 15 mph in work zones.\n\nOn April 7, 2017, the House of Delegates passed a resolution that asks the Department of Highways to study increasing the speed limit to 75 mph on rural interstates where deemed safe.\n\nOn January 10, 2018, West Virginia lawmakers made a bill which would increase speed limits on interstates and limited access highways in rural areas to 80 mph. If that is done, West Virginia could become the 8th state to increase its speed limit to 80 mph, and it would be the third eastern state with a speed limit of greater than 70 mph.\n\nThe state of Wisconsin's speed limits are set out in statutory law but may often be modified by the maintaining government entity. In addition to a basic speed rule, Wisconsin law specifies certain occasions where reduced speeds are required includingand not limited to the approaches and traverses of rail crossings, winding roads, roads where people are present, and the crests of grades. Although there is no numeric minimum speed limit, state law prohibits the impediment of traffic by unreasonably slow speeds. Vehicles that lack rubber tires filled with compressed air and/or carry a slow moving vehicle orange safety triangle have a hard limit of 20 mph.\n\nThe state of Wisconsin has four default speed limits. 20 mph limits apply in school zones (on major roads during school arrival and dismissal periods only), near parks with children, and in alleys. 10 mph default speed limits apply, unless modified by the managing authority, on \"service roads\" within corporate limits. Within municipal boundaries and in areas of dense urban development a 35 mph limit is in effect unless another speed limit is indicated. In some jurisdictions, the 25 mph limit is the default speed limit for residential areas. The entry to such an area is to be marked by speed limit signs. Outside of built-up areas (these include denser business, industrial or residential land uses according to the relevant law) a 55 mph limit is effective in the absence of other indications.\n\nWhile all 2 lane roads maintained by WisDOT as of 2015 have a 55 mph maximum, a small portion of Minnesota State Highway 23 that passes through the state south of Superior but is maintained by MNDOT has a 60 mph limit through the state.\n\nAlong with the aforementioned default speed limits, there are other statutory speed limits that more often require signs to be effective. 70 mph limits on freeways and 65 mph limits on expressways require signs to be effective. The default speed limit on these types of roads is 55 mph as they do not directly interact with the built-up environment. In the densest urban districts a statutory 25 mph limit is effective when adequate signage is used, as are 35 mph limits in areas of light development. The same applies to 45 mph limits on highways designated as \"rustic\" roads. However, \"an alleged failure to post [such a speed limit sign] is not a defense to a prosecution\" in the case of such statutory limits.\n\nWyoming's highest speed limit is 80 mph, found on its Interstate highways, and 70 mph on its four lane divided highways. The speed limit for school zones is 20 mph, 30 mph in urban districts and residential areas, 70 mph for other paved roads, and 55 mph for unpaved roads. On I-80 in Evanston and Cheyenne, I-25 in Cheyenne and Casper, and I-90 in Buffalo, the speed limit is 65 mph.\n\nIn February 2014, the state Assembly passed a bill that would raise the speed limit from 75 to 80 mph on certain freeway segments that would meet safety standards. The bill passed the Senate on Feb 25 and raised the speed limit on certain freeway sections to 80 mph on July 1, 2014. However, an attempt to raise the speed limit to 70 on two lane highways such as Wyoming 120 and US 14 was turned down that same month, but this same provision became law in February 2015. On February 1, 2016, the speed limit on WY 120 (two lane highway) from the Chief Joseph Highway to the Montana border increased to 70 mph. Two other two lane highway sections, WYO 130 from Interstate 80 south to Saratoga and US 85 from east of I-25 to Newcastle, increased to 70 mph.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26621812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26621812", "title": "Sustainable redevelopment", "text": "Sustainable redevelopment\n\nSustainable redevelopment is the doctrine within which a state, organization, or individual can work to recreate a socio-economic position attained prior to a deconstructive event while upholding sustainable and environmental practices. The doctrine is based on economics within environmentalism. Typically, by providing more upfront capital, one can create a system that is less energy intensive, less wasteful, and generally less expensive to maintain in the long run. By redeveloping sustainably, long term energy efficiencies can be realized, coupled with highly reduced greenhouse gas emissions.\n\nWithin the ideals of nation-building, sustainable redevelopment can take up a greater significance. Post-disaster countries are in a unique situation to deal with these systems of ideals. Within this context, the idea behind initiating post-trauma sustainable redevelopment is that the underlying infrastructure is destroyed or damaged, therefore the situation is ideal for realizing the opportunities inherent to the situation.\n\nSustainable development and redevelopment are closely linked, and several organizations have been implicitly involved with sustainable development. This type of development, in contrast to redevelopment, is not different other than the application to a specified problem. Sustainable development, is a form of development that coexists with existing forms of development.\n\nWhile the systems for recreation on a small/local level are not universally widespread, there are several institutions which engage in sustainable development, that can theoretically be carried over to redevelopment. The Kyoto Protocol's 12th Article speaks to \"flexible mechanisms\". These mechanisms allow countries which have ratified the Kyoto Protocol to lower their overall emissions through the most economical means, respective, of course, to that country. Theoretically, these mechanisms could be directed towards post-traumatic redevelopment.\n\nThe United Nations Division for Sustainable Development \"provides leadership and is an authoritative source of expertise within the United Nations system on sustainable development\". The Division for Sustainable Development has been essential in the creation of such policies as Agenda 21, and the Johannesburg Plan of Implementation.\n\nThe United Nations declares that \"Sustainable reconstruction management provides numerous environmental, safety and financial benefits.\"\n\nThe World Bank has been working on sustainable development projects through one of their internal groups, the Sustainable Development Network. These two groups work together to provide key sectors for sustainable development: \"agriculture and rural development, energy, transport, water, environment, urban development, social development, oil, gas, mining, and chemicals, information and communication technologies, and sub-national activities\".\n\nThe Natural Hazards Research and Application Information Center of the University of Colorado at Boulder produced a work catalyzing the process for post-disaster sustainable redevelopment. In their book, “Holistic Disaster Recovery”, is spelled out the “Six Principles of Sustainability”\n\n1. Maintain and, if possible, enhance, its residents quality of life.\n2. Enhance local economic vitality.\n3. Ensure social and intergenerational equity.\n4. Maintain and, if possible, enhance, environmental quality.\n5. Incorporate disaster resilience and mitigation.\n6. Use a consensus-building, participatory process when making\ndecisions \n\n"}
{"id": "18907710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18907710", "title": "The Anatomy of Power", "text": "The Anatomy of Power\n\nThe Anatomy of Power is a 1983 book by Harvard economist John Kenneth Galbraith. It sought to classify three types of power: \"compensatory power\" in which submission is bought, \"condign power\" in which submission is won by making the alternative sufficiently painful, and \"conditioned power\" in which submission is gained by persuasion. In short; money, force and ideology.\n\nIt further divided power by source: power either stems from \"personality\" or leadership, \"property\" or wealth, or \"organisation\".\n\nThe book goes on to detail a brief history of the use of power, noting the broad arc of history in moving away from condign and towards compensatory and then conditioned power, and from personality and property towards organisation. Finally, it details what Galbraith views as the main sources of power in the modern world: government, the military, religion and the press.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "523529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=523529", "title": "Works of authority on the United Kingdom constitution", "text": "Works of authority on the United Kingdom constitution\n\nWorks of authority on the United Kingdom constitution are books written by constitutional theorists that are considered to be authoritative guides to the UK constitution. The United Kingdom has no written Constitution, thus these are guides as to the rules and customs of the land. They can be adopted or overidden by acts of Parliament.\n\nThe most prominent works of authority are:\n\nThe former two are now historical, while the latter two are regularly updated to reflect developments in parliamentary procedure.\n\n"}
