{"id": "23125046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23125046", "title": "2009 flu pandemic in Asia", "text": "2009 flu pandemic in Asia\n\nThe 2009 flu pandemic in Asia, part of an epidemic in 2009 of a new strain of influenza A virus subtype H1N1 causing what has been commonly called swine flu, afflicted at least 394,133 people in Asia with 2,137 confirmed deaths: there were 1,035 deaths confirmed in India, 737 deaths in China, 415 deaths in Turkey, 192 deaths in Thailand, and 170 deaths in South Korea. Among the Asian countries, South Korea had the most confirmed cases, followed by China, Hong Kong, and Thailand.\n\nOn 27 April 2009 Azerbaijan imposed a ban on import of animal husbandry products from the Americas. According to the Chief of the State Veterinary Service under the Agriculture Ministry Ismayil Hasanov, products brought to the country on that day received certificates and it was confirmed that those products were safe. AZAL took additional safety measures and a sanitary quarantine unit of the Health Ministry started to operate in Heydar Aliyev International Airport with all aircraft and passengers being checked.\n\nAzeri Minister of Health Ogtay Shiraliyev said the order prepared by him considers the implementation of necessary measures in the epidemiological and various medical centers. \"Azerbaijan is ready for this issue\", he said. According to the Agriculture Minister Ismat Abbasov, the State Veterinary Service is holding monitoring in the regions and pigs are kept in closed places in farms. Abbasov also said: \"I can say with full responsibility that the situation on prevention against swine flu virus is stable in Azerbaijan\". On 31 July, First Case of Influenza A(H1N1) was confirmed.\n\nOn 2 May all checkpoints on borders with Russia passed to the medium security and disinfection barriers for both cars and pedestrians were installed at the Samur, Shirvanovka and Khan Oba checkpoints in Qusar and Khachmaz Raions. The veterinary services at checkpoints intensified their activities while hog farms in the northern regions passed to the closed farming regime.\nOn 27 April, Bahrain's health ministry declared the country to be free from the flu, citing that pig farms do not exist in the country and that live pork is not imported into the country. On 28 April, Bahraini MPs from the Al Asalah Salafi party called for the prohibition of pork products in the country. On 30 April, Bahrain banned pork imports from the United States and Mexico where the bulk of its imports originate from, with the Ministry of Health stating that the country is taking extra precautions despite the World Health Organization stating that the flu cannot be contracted via the consumption of pork. The Ministry announced the creation of isolation wards in the country's main hospitals and also recommended that people should avoid hugging and kissing, so as to avoid contact with infected individuals. Also on the same day, it was announced that passengers arriving through the Bahrain International Airport would be screened and would also send suspicious flu patients to isolation wards. It was also announced that pharmacies in the country were stockpiled with enough Tamiflu to cover 20% of the population. A special hotline was also set up.\n\nConcerns began to emerge in the country about whether or not the health care sector could handle the influx of flu patients. The Ministry of Health set up screening facilities on the King Fahd Causeway to screen travelers entering the country. On 1 May, it was announced that a 41-year-old male American traveler and a female passenger from Paris were quarantined at Salmaniya Medical Complex after displaying flu-like symptoms. However, both passengers tested negative to H1N1 tests. On 26 May, a Bahraini student who had recently arrived from New York was confirmed as having contracted the flu; he was the first confirmed case of swine flu to hit the island country. It is also the first case involving a Gulf national contracting the disease. Health officials have stated the boy had suffered a mild form of the disease and was discharged from the hospital after spending five days in quarantine. On 15 June, seven Bahraini students, all age 17, tested positive for the H1N1 virus. The students were among a group of students who had recently returned from a student exchange program in the United States. On 17 June, three more Bahrainis tested positive for the flu, all of whom were in contact with the previous seven students.\n\nIn July, the Ministry of Health launched an awareness campaign ahead of the start of the academic year, with many fearing the reopening of schools would lead to a much greater outbreak of the flu. By early August, 18 confirmed cases of the flu were reported. Haj travel agencies have reported that thousands of Bahraini pilgrims have cancelled their trips to Mecca over fears of contracting swine flu. Over 180 confirmed cases of the flu were reported in late August, all of whom had returned from traveling abroad.\n\nOn 31 August, a 30-year-old Filipino housemaid died after contracting the H1N1 virus, becoming Bahrain's first confirmed death as a result of the virus. On 3 September, it was reported that a 24-year-old Bahraini man died after succumbing to the H1N1 virus, being the first Bahraini to die of the disease. He was pronounced dead at BDF Hospital and there were allegations that he had been earlier misdiagnosed by a private hospital. On 8 September, it was announced that patients with flu-like symptoms would be treated with Tamiflu nationwide, regardless of having a fever or not. It was also announced that a million doses of the swine flu vaccine were ordered. The Bahraini Ministry of Education had decided to postpone the opening of schools until October as a precaution, a decision that drew criticism from the World Health Organization. In November 2009, the government stated that up to 1,346 cases of the H1N1 virus were confirmed in the country, along with 15,000 suspected cases of the virus.\n\nIt was announced on 29 April 2009 by Bangladesh's Health Minister AFM Ruhal Haque that screening of inbound international travelers for swine flu would start at the country's main international airport. After an inter-ministerial meeting on swine flu, Haque told reporters that particularly those travelers who come from the affected countries will be screened at the Shahjalal International Airport in capital Dhaka. A Bangladeshi national who recently returned from US has been detected with swine flu on 18 June, making him the first patient to be tested positive of A(H1N1) viral infection in the country.\n\nAs of 22 August 98 cases of the A(H1N1) virus has been confirmed in Bangladesh.\n\nOn 1 May 2009 Chairman of Global Human Flu Prevention and Response Work Committee Deputy Minister for Health Dr Mya Oo inspected preventive measures against the human flu at Yangon International Airport, Burma (also known as Myanmar). On 27 June, Burmese state-run Radio Myanmar confirmed the first case of influenza A/H1N1 - a girl aged 13 who just return from a trip from Singapore.\n\nCambodia's health authorities remain alert but confident that the country is prepared for a swine flu pandemic. In terms of ensuring that infected pigs do not spread the disease to Cambodia, the Cambodian Pig Raiser Association said it has told the government it should ban live pig imports. But Khlauk Chuon, the deputy director of Camcontrol at the Ministry of Commerce, said they would only ban live pig imports from a country that has been hit with swine flu. \"We are very worried about this new disease because it can transfer from pig to human, from human to human and from human to pig,\" Khlauk Chuon added. 6 cases has been confirmed in Cambodia, including one domestic case.\n\nThe first suspected case found on mainland China was reported on 10 May 2009. As of 29 July 2009, the number of confirmed A/H1N1 cases on the Chinese mainland topped 2,000, with no deaths or serious cases reported, according to the Ministry of Health (MOH). Of the total 2,003 confirmed cases, 1,853 had recovered, said a statement on the MOH website.\n\nThe General Administration of Quality Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine (AQSIQ) of China issued an emergency notice on the evening of 26 April that visitors returning from flu-affected areas who experienced flu-like symptoms within two weeks would be quarantined. The Ministry of Health has started prevention measures, and initiated cooperation with the WHO and the relevant departments of the Mexican and U.S. governments to help contain the outbreak. According to Wang Jing of the China Inspection and Quarantine Science Research Institute, the measures already in place in China against bird flu are sufficient for this new disease, also certain lessons were learned from the 2003 SARS outbreak including that the state-controlled media doesn't cover up such events.\n\n2 May, the Chinese government has decided to suspend flights from Mexico to Shanghai, the Foreign Ministry said. Meanwhile, the Civil Aviation Administration of China also assigned a charter to transport stranded Chinese visitors back home. Among all carriers, China Eastern Airlines was the first choice as it is based in Shanghai, where the original and the only Sino-Mexican flight disembarks, but later the job has fallen onto the Guangzhou based China Southern Airlines, as China Eastern's aircraft don't fit the facility at Tijuana Airport. The replacing China Southern flight would leave Guangzhou at 21:00 on 3 May as a normal flight until it reaches the stop-over at Los Angeles, and then fly empty toward Mexico City to pick up the 120 stranded tourists. The charter flight estimates to be back in Shanghai 11:00 in the morning on 5 May, and all passengers on board will then go through health to see if further action is needed. 1,089 cases were confirmed in China by early May.\n\nChina's Ministry of Health has gathered experts to draft the Influenza A(H1N1) vaccine and immunity strategy which would include, 'when, how and against whom' the vaccine should be used.\nThe ministry's Contingency Office deputy director, Liang Wannian, said the optimum objective of the flu vaccine was for the protection of high-risk population, especially people with basic illness and pregnant women. The first batch of China's A (H1N1) flu vaccine is expected to be ready by July, and would undergo a two-month clinical test before it is available in the market. China's flu vaccine strategy is to stockpile enough vaccine for one per cent of her population by 1 October, as a preventive measure to encounter any vast outbreak of the flu. Liang said China would take more severe and effective preventive measures at its many gateways and educate the people on the H1N1, also known as swine flu.\n\nIn early September 2009, China's State Food and Drug Administration granted approval to a homegrown swine flu vaccine, which producer Sinovac Biotech claims is effective after only one dose.\n\nOn 4 January 2010, the Chinese Health Ministry announced that 659 deaths from swine flu have been recorded in 2009, with 120,940 confirmed detected cases throughout the year.\nCyprus identified its first case of H1N1 on 30 May in a 39-year-old woman from Moldova, living in Cyprus, who returned from the United States on 28 May. As of 11 July 250 cases have been confirmed in Cyprus.\n\nThe Food and Health Bureau of Hong Kong issued travel advice for Mexico on 26 April 2009, which advised Hong Kong residents not to travel to Mexico unless absolutely necessary. The first case reported was a Mexican who flew in from Shanghai. The most recent case (the tenth) was found in a 56-year-old American who had flown in from San Francisco. The Bureau also escalated the alert level from \"alert\" to \"serious\" on the same day, which activated health protection measures in all ports of entry of Hong Kong. As such, temperature screening machines are used at all checkpoints to identify passengers with fever and respiratory symptoms. Any passenger who fails the temperature test and confirmed having a fever will be quarantined and sent to public hospital for further investigation. Hong Kong also became one of the first jurisdictions to declare swine flu as a notifiable disease, and much of the procedures against the spread of the swine flu were learned from the 2003 SARS outbreak, of which Hong Kong was the epicenter of the outbreak.\n\nThe Secretary for Food and Health York Chow stated that special attention will be paid to passengers who come from countries where human infection of swine influenza cases have been reported.\n\nOn 1 May, one case became the first confirmed case of swine flu in Hong Kong and also the first in Asia after being tested positive by the University of Hong Kong and the Department of Health of Hong Kong. The Mexican patient, who travelled with two companions from Mexico to Hong Kong with a stopover in Shanghai Pudong Airport, arrived in Hong Kong on 30 April. Metropark Hotel Wanchai, where the patient stayed, was cordoned off by the police and health officials from the Centre for Health Protection. All 350 guests and hotel staff have to remain inside the hotel for seven days. After the first swine flu case was confirmed by laboratory, Chief Executive Sir Donald Tsang raised Hong Kong's response level from \"serious\" to \"emergency\".\n\nOn 2 May, a total of 12 Metropark Hotel guests who were not willing to stay in the hotel were moved to Lady MacLehose Holiday Village in Sai Kung for quarantine.\n\nOn 11 June, the Educational Bureau issued a letter ordering all kindergartens, primary and special schools to suspend all class and examinations for a 14-day period. As of 21, 20 June secondary schools have been ordered to suspend classes and examinations for another 14 days after a confirmed case of human swine flu was found in each school.On 23 June, the Educational Bureau issued a letter to order all kindergartens, primary schools and special schools to have their summer holiday immediately. As of 27 August 2009, there have been 10,468 confirmed cases of swine flu in the city.\n\nOn 3 July, a case of Tamiflu-resistant virus was discovered in a woman suffering from the flu. The woman had not previously taken Tamiflu, so concern has been expressed that she may have contracted an already resistant virus from someone else.\n\nThe Government of India has decided to screen all people entering India via the main airport hubs of Mumbai, New Delhi, Goa, Jaipur, Kochi, Kolkata, Chennai, Bangalore and Hyderabad. It said the primary focus will be on passengers entering from the United States of America, United Kingdom, Canada, Mexico, France, and New Zealand. A team of 32 medical professionals have been posted at these airports. The Ministry of Health is also trying to track down people who have entered India from Mexico in the last 10 days. It has been reported that one person recently traveled from Texas to Hyderabad with flu symptoms and was quarantined, but authorities refused to divulge his identity. Government health officials & WHO subsequently stated that there is no Swine flu in India and the said patient recovered from a common cold. Three other suspected cases of swine flu have been noticed. Two of them were flying from Chicago and the other one, who is UK citizen, aged 35, arrived from London. All of whom have been kept under observation in a hospital.\nAs of 21 August 2009, 2401 cases have been confirmed in India with 63 deaths. As of 4 October 2009, 10375 cases have been confirmed in India with 329 deaths. The maximum deaths are found from Pune. As of 13 August 13 people have been succumbed to the deadly virus in Pune. Pune has been declared onto a state of semi-emergency of pandemic.\nThe Government has declared of the closure of Schools and Colleges in Mumbai for at least a week.\nAll the shopping malls and theaters have been closed down up to Monday.\n\nAfter a coordination meeting about the flu on 27 April 2009, the Indonesian government halted the importation of pigs and initiated the examination of 9 million pigs in Indonesia. Thermal scanners which can detect human body temperature have been installed at Indonesian ports of entry. Temperatures above 38 degrees Celsius (100.4 Fahrenheit) cause the devices to beep, indicating fever. The devices have been installed in Soekarno-Hatta International Airport and Halim Perdana Kusuma Airport in Jakarta, Juanda Airport in Surabaya, Hang Nadim Airport in Batam, Hasanudin Airport in Makassar, Ngurah Rai Airport in Denpasar, Sultan Aji Muhammad Sulaiman Airport in Balikpapan, and Tanjung Priok Seaport, gates one and two in Jakarta and taking action right now. Indonesia confirms first case of H1N1. 416 cases and one death has been confirmed in Indonesia. Cases have increased to over 1,005 people and 4 deaths, but three of these deaths were reported negative.\n\nAny person with temperatures above 38 degrees Celsius will be taken to a specialized hospital and would undertake intensive test to determine if the patient is positive of swine flu.\n\nAs of 18 August 2009, 4 deaths due to the virus have been reported in the country. This is not the case, as only one fatality was reported positive to the virus. The other three were signaled negative.\n\nover 4000 cases have been confirmed in Israel, and over 60 people have died so far. In response to the outbreak, the Israeli Deputy Minister of Health, Yaakov Litzman, has said that because \"swine\" are unclean, the outbreak needs to be renamed, and so in Israel, out of respect for the religious sensibilities of Jews and Muslims, it should be called \"Mexican Flu\". This was done so as to not confuse the population into thinking that they could not acquire the virus if they did not eat pork. The Israeli government retracted this proposal following Mexican complaints.\n\nThe flu came close to many Israeli politicians. Prime minister Benjamin Netanyahu was checked for fear of flu, and the flu reached the presidential residence and the Knesset.\n\nThe Ministry of Agriculture, Forestry and Fisheries of Japan instructed animal quarantine offices across Japan to examine any live pigs being brought into Japan to make sure they are not infected with the influenza. Japanese Agriculture Minister Shigeru Ishiba appeared on television to reassure customers that it is safe to eat pork. The Japanese farm ministry said that it would not ask for restrictions on pork imports because the virus was unlikely to turn up in pork, and would be killed by cooking.\n\nOn 30 April 2009, the first suspected case was detected at Narita Airport. However, the case turned out to be a conventional strain of influenza A subtype H3N2 (Hong Kong A strain). On 1 May 2009, the second suspected case was detected in Yokohama. This case also turned out to be a conventional strain of influenza A subtype H1N1 (Russian A strain). Meanwhile, Japan has not stopped any flights or means of travelling between Japan and Mexico.\n\nOn 8 May, the first three cases were confirmed. The infected patients had spent time in Oakville, Canada and returned to Japan via Detroit. On 10 May, another case was confirmed from a student who came from a school trip to Canada, making it the fourth case of Japan.\n\nOn 16 May, the first domestic infection was confirmed in Kobe. The male high school student did not have a history of travel abroad and thought it was a seasonal flu, and PCR test was not done in timely manner. Two other students are suspected, and 17 other students are claiming influenza-like symptoms. The route of the infection was not traceable.\n\nOn 18 May, 130 cases had been confirmed, including employees of a railway kiosk and a bank. Several railway kiosks in Kobe were closed, and 70 other bank workers who had worked with the infected person were told to stand by at home. All schools in the Osaka and Hyogo Prefectures were suspended. There have been 944 case confirmed in Japan as of 24 June 2009.\n\nOn 2 July, the first case of oseltamivir-resistant virus in Asia was announced in Japan, in a woman who had been taking Tamiflu prophylactically.\n\nThe first cases of A(H1N1) virus were discovered in 3 students from the capital Astana according to Natalia Buenko, an advisor to the Ministry of Health of Kazakhstan.\n\nAbout 18 people on U.S. military bases in Kuwait have tested positive for swine flu, a U.S. Central Command spokeswoman said on 24 May 2009. They are the first cases reported in Kuwait. It remains unclear whether the virus has spread to the civilian population. The names and units of the infected people were not immediately available. Maj. Kristi Beckman, speaking from Central Command headquarters in Tampa, said everyone who tested positive for the virus was quarantined in military health facilities approved by officials from the Kuwaiti Ministry of Health. The World\nKuwait is used as a staging area for soldiers heading to or from the war in Iraq. The World Health Organization reported that they had not included Kuwait on its list of countries where the virus is present.\n\nOn 16 June, the Kuwait Times newspaper reported confirmed the country's first cases of swine flu in four Kuwaitis who returned from the United States.\n\nThe Lao government agreed to buy 10 thermal imaging machines and install them at the country's major immigration border checkpoints. The machines would help officials identify anyone entering the country with a high temperature and create confidence among Lao people, foreigners living in Laos and people traveling to Laos. Health officials would be on hand at international border checkpoints to ensure anyone found to be infected could be treated immediately. Each machine could cost about US$25,000. The decision to buy them was made after the government found visitors to Laos included people coming from the United States, Spain and other affected countries.\n\nThe Prime Minister Bouasone Bouphavanh said masks should be made available and health officials would be assigned to work at border checkpoints. The machines would help officials identify anyone entering the country with a high temperature and create confidence among Lao people, foreigners living in Laos and people travelling to Laos. Health officials would be on hand at international border checkpoints to ensure anyone found to be infected could be treated immediately. On 18 June, the first case in Laos was confirmed.\nA Lebanese man suffering from a serious illness died from the H1N1 swine flu strain on Thursday 30 July 2009, which makes the first death in Lebanon, Health Minister Mohammad Khalifeh told Reuters. The 30-year-old victim had been receiving treatment for leukemia when he contracted the virus, possibly from relatives who had just traveled from Australia to Lebanon, the minister said.Lebanon has recorded more than 100 cases of H1N1.\n\nThe first three cases of swine flu were discovered in Lebanon on 1 July 2009 according to the Health Minister Mohammad Jawad Khalifeh.\n\"One Lebanese man who was in Spain and two Canadians who arrived in Lebanon a week ago are suffering from swine flu,\" Khalifeh told AFP. \"We put them in quarantine and the blood samples we have taken every day have proven to be positive. \"The Lebanese man and the two visiting Canadians were given the proper medical treatment in time and they are well now.\"\nHe told a press conference said the man was part of a group of 22 Lebanese who had been attending a training seminar in Spain at an institute where the disease was later detected. He said health authorities may use thermal scanners at the airport to detect passengers with fever. \"The situation is under control,\" he said.\n\nThe Lebanese Health Minister Mohammad Jawad Khalifeh asked citizens to stop the social habit of greeting with kissing, as it is a Lebanese habit to greet each other with three kisses on the cheek. He also requested that affected schoolchildren be kept at home and that travel to countries in which cases have been confirmed be avoided. Beirut also banned the import of pork.\n\nOn 30 May, Lebanon confirms three cases of swine flu.\nOn 18 June, the first case was confirmed. The victim was a Filipino arriving Macau the day before. The first local case was confirmed on 23 June. On that day there were 8 confirmed cases.\n\nMalaysia detected the first case of influenza A(H1N1) on 15 May 2009 in a 21-year-old student who returned from the United States. Malaysia first case of Influenza A (H1N1) which was locally transmitted was confirmed on 17 June 2009 and identified as 17-year-old girl who was admitted to the Kuala Lumpur Hospital. As of 11 August 2009 there has been 2,253 confirmed cases in Malaysia. The Health Ministry has announced that from 12 August 2009 they had discontinued the counting of the total number of H1N1 cases in line with guidelines issued by the World Health Organization. As of 20 August 2009 the total number of A(H1N1) related deaths in Malaysia stands at 68.\nA ministerial committee has been established to supervise swine flu preventive measures to avoid an outbreak. All visitors arriving at the Malé International Airport on Hulhule Island and the country’s three commercial seaports are being screened.\n\nFirst death from H1N1 flu virus was confirmed on 19 November.\n\nMongolian authorities quarantined 103 plane passengers on last 7 May who may have been exposed to swine flu.\n\nThe passengers were aboard a flight in which two passengers who had performed in a Mongolian band in Mexico developed a fever. When the plane stopped for a scheduled landing in Moscow, the ill passengers were hospitalized.\n\nLanding later in Ulaanbaatar, the Mongolian Health Ministry announced it had quarantined all passengers as well as the crew of six. The people will remain under medical surveillance for seven days, according to officials of the General Authority for Emergency Management.\n\nThe Mongolian Health Ministry has sought to prevent the spread of swine flu in Mongolia by urging people to avoid public places.\n\nAs of 22 October 126 cases were confirmed in Mongolia. Just after seven days, the number increased to 394 with five deaths.\n\nMost defectors with backgrounds in health care agree that, considering the isolation of North Korean society and its highly inadequate health care system, incidents of swine flu are likely to be either suppressed or merely misdiagnosed.\n\nFollowing the confirmation of the first case of the disease in Mongolia, heightened concerns arose. the very high cases in China would make the spread of the disease to North Korea only a matter of time. If swine flu would come to North Korea, there is a possibility of rapid spreading of the disease through the jangmadang (market), which has become the primary means of survival for the people.\n\nThe plans of the WHO to distribute swine flu vaccines, contributed by developed countries, to a selected 100 developing countries in November; North Korea is included in the priority list.\n\nOn 16 November, the first known case was confirmed by the Ministry of Unification, released in a report by \"Korea Times\". The first case was confirmed in a South Korean worker in Gaeseong Industrial Complex.\n\nOn 1 December, the Ministry of Public Health called on a meeting to discuss how to prevent H1N1 influenza from spreading. Importing of vaccines and isolation of people in their respective homes were considered. The Ministry of Education has also decided to call on all schools nationwide to have a winter break a month earlier in an approach to stop the spread of the disease due to the fact that the majority of fatalities caused by the disease are people younger than 23 years of age.\n\nHowever, on 9 December for the first time, North Korea officially confirmed foreign reports that an outbreak has occurred in the country, and has accepted aid from South Korea.\n\nHowever, there is propaganda that the United States and Western governments created the H1N1 virus, and that the disease is man-made by the Westerners.\n\nAs of 13 August 2009, 337 cases have been confirmed by the National Pandemic Influenza Committee in Oman. There have also been unconfirmed reports of a death although this has been denied by the Health Ministry.\n\non 21 August 2009, the Ministry of Health reported the first 2 death cases one in Muscat and the other in Salalah plus the increase in the number of cases to 513.\nPakistan has taken precautionary measures at the international airports to check passengers coming from swine flu affected countries. Doctors are checking the incoming passengers and allow entry only to those with no flu symptoms. The major hospitals in all the big cities are on high alert. There are 90 confirmed case as of 26 January 2010.\n\nHealth Secretary Francisco T. Duque III ordered the Bureau of Quarantine to use thermal imaging equipment at airports to screen passengers coming from the US for flu symptoms. The Philippines may quarantine travelers arriving from Mexico with fevers. Also, the Secretary of the Department of Agriculture issued an order banning the importation of hogs from the U.S. and Mexico, and the retraction of the restriction of swine influenza vaccine use. The medical alert phase is already Code White, the lowest.\n\nOn 18 May 2009, a Filipina girl who arrived from Houston, Texas, United States was the first confirmed case of H1N1 virus in the Philippines. Health Secretary Duque advised that the girl is in stable condition and is in quarantine.\n\nOn 3 June 2009, a foreign exchange student in De La Salle University-Manila was confirmed with H1N1 virus and the school was closed for ten days starting 4 June.\n\nAs of 5 June 2009, the Total of confirmed cases of A(H1N1) virus rose from 29 cases last 4 June to 33 confirmed cases as of 5 June. Philippine Health Secretary Francisco Duque III said the new cases are two siblings and another student of De La Salle University.\n\nBecause of the said incident, on 6 June 2009, the Commission in Higher Education [CHED] moved the opening of classes in all colleges and universities in Metro Manila from 8 June 2009 to 15 June 2009.\n\nFirst fatality was reported, a 49-year-old female from Metro Manila on 22 June, the first fatality in Asia of this disease. The death was not caused by the virus directly. The person has lung and health problems that worsen it. The person died of a heart attack.\n\nThe highest confirmed in one day was on 24 June 2009 with 131 cases, the next day, the confirmed cases added is 123. Because of that, the Department of Health ordered the people that should get swab tests are the only people with very complicated cases (e.g. with lung disorders, hearth disorders, babies etc.). The government said that the very fast spreading of the disease is caused by the population density of the country.\n\nThe Health Ministry has announced the detection of a case of swine flu which infected a Filipino nurse working at King Faisal Specialist Hospital and Research Center. Dr Abdullah al-Rabee'a, the Health Minister, said that the detection of the case has come within the framework of the efforts being exerted by the Health Ministry to follow up developments in this respect.\nIn a statement to the Saudi Press Agency, he said that the nurse, who had spent her holidays in Philippines, returned to Riyadh on 29 May 2009, aboard one of the flights of the Gulf Air. \"Symptoms of the disease appeared in the case of the nurse on June 1, 2009, and she was admitted to the KFSHRC for conducting the required medical examinations pertaining to Swine Flu, he said, noting that the results of the medical examinations were disclosed on Tuesday evening, confirming the case as 'Positive'\".\n\nIn the light of the measures of the World Health Organization (WHO), the medical examinations were conducted for the second time on Tuesday evening, he said, adding that the examinations proved the infection of the nurse for A/H1N1 on Wednesday morning. Dr Al-Rabee'a said the Health Ministry in cooperation with King Faisal Specialist Hospital and Research Center has applied the national plan for the prevention of swine flu in a manner that matches with the recommendations of WHO. Accordingly, the patient was isolated and provided with the required medical treatment. Arrangements are underway to examine those who were in contact with the patient to get sure that they are not infected. As of 17 August 2009 the number of A(H1N1) cases in Saudi Arabia have increased to above 700 and 14 people have died.\n\nBy 17 August, There had been about 2000 cases of the flu resulting in 14 deaths.\nThe 2009 flu pandemic in Singapore was an influenza pandemic involving the influenza A virus subtype H1N1. It was part of an epidemic that occurred in 2009 of the H1N1 virus, causing what was commonly known as swine flu. On 30 April 2009, the Singapore Ministry of Health raised its Disease Outbreak Response System to \"Alert Orange\". At this time, there were no confirmed cases in Singapore.The first case of the H1N1 virus in Singapore was confirmed on 27 May 2009, in which a then 22-year-old woman picked up the virus after visiting New York City, United States. As of 7 July 2009, there were 1,217 confirmed cases. As of 17 October 2009, there were 18 confirmed deaths from the H1N1 virus in Singapore. On 12 February 2010, the Singapore Ministry of Health moved its alert level to Green.\nThe first case of Influenza A (H1N1-2009) was confirmed on 16 June, 2009 in Sri Lanka. Sri Lanka said on Tuesday that a 12-year-old girl returning home from Singapore was diagnosed with A(H1N1) influenza, the island's first swine flu case. The student was moved to the Infectious Diseases Hospital on the outskirts of the capital, a health ministry official said.\n\nAs of 25 June there were 10 confirmed cases. According to Geetani Wickremasinghe of Medical Research Institute in Colombo another two people suffering from swine flu have been detected on Wednesday 24 June. Both patients who were from Australia, including a ten-year-old boy have reached the country on last Sunday. With these two patients added to the total number of Swine Flu patients detected in Sri Lanka has risen to 10. Four of the patients have been discharged, but six patients are still receiving treatments at the Infectious Disease Hospital in Angoda.\nSouth Korea warned against travel to Mexico City and three Mexican states. The government has also stepped up quarantine and safety checks on travelers arriving from the United States and Mexico, and pork imports from those countries. An emergency quarantine system is also in place, with simple tests conducted on people arriving with flu symptoms at airports. On 28 April, South Korea reported its first probable case of swine flu after positive preliminary tests on a nun who had recently returned from a trip to Mexico.\nSeveral sources have informed that one case has been confirmed by lab in South Korea, on 30 April. On 2 May, the first suspected woman turned out to be infected with the influenza A subtype H1N1. South Korea became the third infected nation in Asia, after Israel and Hong Kong. There have been approx. 2100 cases in S.Korea as of 16 August 2009. On 15 August, the first Korean death by the new influenza was confirmed publicly and a second death was announced on 16 August.\nAround 15000 cases and 14 deaths have been reported as of 12 October 2009.\n\nOn 20 May 2009, the first case of the influenza has been confirmed in Taiwan.\n\nThe government had previously taken several steps to prevent the possible outbreak of Swine Flu, including a command center set up, travel alerts for infected nations, and more severe health check been conducted at international ports. Taiwan said visitors who came back from affected areas with fever would be quarantined. According to The Department of Health (DOH), Taiwan has a sufficient supply of surgical masks and vaccine to deal with the flu. The DOH also stated that they have 50 million to 60 million masks in stock and local manufacturers have the capability of producing 200,000 doses of the flu vaccine a month. In an effort to prevent the entry of the swine influenza, the Centers for Disease Control has announced on 28 April that every flight from the Americas, specifically Canada and the United States, that arrives in Taiwan from 29 April and onward will be subject to a strict on-board screening procedure. There are 5,474 confirmed cases of H1N1 in Taiwan so far.\n\nThe 2009 flu pandemic in Thailand, part of an epidemic in 2009 of a new strain of influenza A virus subtype H1N1 causing what has been commonly called swine flu, made its first confirmed appearance in Thailand on 13 May 2009, when Thailand confirmed two cases of swine flu. Both of the individuals confirmed as having swine flu had recently traveled to Mexico. The Thai Public Health Ministry announced on 16 July that it had ended daily updates on the type A(H1N1) influenza pandemic, saying it wanted to avoid public confusion and would give weekly updates. There were 4,469 confirmed cases in Thailand and 44 confirmed deaths as of 22 July 2009. \n\nThe first case of A(H1N1) in Turkey was reported on 16 May 2009. A U.S. citizen, flying from the United States via Amsterdam was found to be suffering from the swine flu after arriving Istanbul's Atatürk International Airport. Turkey is the 36th country in the world to report an incident of swine flu. The Turkish Government has taken measures at the international airports, using thermal imaging cameras to check passengers coming from international destinations. As of 11 August, there were 312 confirmed cases in Turkey. As of 24 October, there is 1 confirmed death in Turkey. It is reported by Ministry of Health that one person died in Ankara. In addition, there are 958 confirmed cases in Turkey.\n\nAn Indian old man who was already suffering from severe respiratory and lung infections and A(H1N1) - swine flu- has died to become the first person in the United Arab Emirates to succumb to the disease, announced the Health Ministry on 20 August 2009.\nThe 63-year-old victim had gone too late to a hospital where he was diagnosed with the infections along with the A(H1N1) symptoms and was treated but died because of the progression of the disease, it said.\n\nThe Ministry of Health has confirmed the death of a 28-year-old Syrian from Sharjah on 1 September 2009 due to the H1N1 infection, along with another pregnant woman, bringing the toll of H1N1 influenza deaths in the country to four.\n\nUzbekistan has taken measures to prevent the entry and spread of the swine flu on the country’s territory, chief state sanitary doctor Bahtiyor Niyazmatov told UzA.\n\nAccording to the official, the measures the country has taken to prevent dangerous infections has proved its efficiency in the past. Thus, the threat of the bird flu and other infectious diseases was prevented. Today Uzbekistan has direct air and land links with many countries and imports thousands of products from other states.\n\nThe Health Ministry of Uzbekistan has worked out a special plan to prevent the new respiratory infection. High-quality specialists are participating in the monitoring of the situation and special trainings are being held for medical workers in all regions.\n\nThe virus laboratories across Tashkent, and the country's regions have diagnostic means to timely identify the swine flu. In case of swine flu symptoms the patient will be isolated in the specially reserved rooms of infection clinics.\n\nSanitary control points are functioning in the border crossing places, including airports and railway stations. They have been provided with additional special equipment and disinfection means, he added.\n\nBesides, the Health Ministry has issued posters and brochures explaining precaution measures and organized meetings with specialists at residence areas, educational establishments, enterprises and organizations, the chief state sanitary doctor of Uzbekistan said.\n\nAs of 6 October, No case was confirmed in Uzbekistan\n\nVietnam's Ministry of Health released an emergency dispatch and urged agencies to take precautionary measures against swine flu. In addition, the Preventive Health and Environment Bureau requested all health facilities to carefully monitor any suspected H1N1 case and Bureau head Nguyen Huy Nga also warned that the pandemic could enter Vietnam through imported swine or border gates. Thermal imaging devices were dispatched to airports and border gates to screen passengers. In response to WHO's warnings, Vietnam on 30 April 2009 raised its swine flu alert level to 4 which indicated a \"threat of community level outbreaks\" while local authorities have been executing precautionary measures.\n\nOn 1 May 2009 a Vietnam's Ministry of Industry and Trade official said that Ministry was considering a ban on pork import \"under certain situations\" to prevent swine flu from entering Vietnam.\n\nAs of 31 May 2009. The Government of Vietnam announced its First new case of A(H1N1) virus in the Country. A 23 years old Vietnamese student who recently returned from the Houston, Texas, United States has tested positive for swine flu.\n\nAs of 4 July 2009 there have been reported 7 cases of A(H1N1) flu in Yemen.\n"}
{"id": "31987512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31987512", "title": "2011 Taiwan food scandal", "text": "2011 Taiwan food scandal\n\nThe 2011 Taiwan food scandal was a food safety scandal in Taiwan over the use of the plasticizer DEHP to replace palm oil in food and drinks as a clouding agent. The chemical agent has been linked to developmental problems with children as it affects hormones.\n\nThe food affected includes beverages, fruit juices, bread, sports drinks, tea, and jam.\n\nAfter two years of investigations, the Taiwanese government levied NT$1.2 million (approx. US$40,000) in fines against 37 companies, or slightly more than US$1000 per company.\n\nIn mid May 2011, Taiwanese authorities reported that two Taiwanese companies Yu Shen Chemical Co. and Pin Han Perfumery Co. were using plasticizer DEHP in clouding agents the firms manufactured. This was used as a substitute for palm oil in clouding agents as a way to keep cost down and improve profits. However, Wei Te Chemical Co., a manufacturer of clouding agents, claims that \"the reason most businesses tended to utilize illegal clouding agents was not because of price, but rather the long preservation periods and esthetically pleasing effect of using DEHP-laced products.\"\n\nNear the end of May 2011, the Taiwanese government had begun seizures of contaminated products and announced a ban from exporting. Later, the list for government safety checks was extended to syrups, tablets, pastries, and powders. By 27 May 2011, \"up to 465,638 bottles of DEHP-tainted beverages have been pulled out from store shelves. Also, up to 270,822 boxes and 68,924 packs of powdered probiotics and 28,539 kilos of fruit juices, fruit jam, powder and syrup, and yoghurt powder have been removed from shelves\", according to EcoWaste Coalition and a report from Taiwan's Food and Drug Administration (FDA).\n\nAs of mid June, there are roughly 900 products which have been recalled from nearly 40,000 Taiwanese retailers. Some media reports, including in \"The Economist\", conclude that Taiwan's former reputation as a reliable and safe food manufacturing country has been damaged.\n\nTaiwanese prosecutors alleges that one of the company Yu Shen at the centre of the crisis has used 5 tonne of DEHP every month to manufacture clouding agents which is supplied to food processing firms and pastry shops. There were 95 Taiwanese manufacturers which has used the DEHP ingredient. A further 244 ingredient manufacturing firms had also used the DEHP.\n\nChinese mainland authorities banned 812 products from the original list of 22 from Taiwan. This include sports drinks, tea, jam, juices, and other beverages. China later upgraded the banned list to cover 1004 products.\n\nHong Kong authorities started monitoring its residents for contamination. They banned two types of Taiwanese sports beverage called Speed. Hong Kong's health secretary York Chow stated that because the ingestion of the carcinogen will be a health risk, he supported an outright ban of the DEHP agent.\n\nMacau health authorities found the antacid Scrat Suspension was tested positive for DIBP who later issued a notice of recall to local importers and pharmacies. Standard Chem. & Pharm Co. had notified its retailers to pull the product off the shelves in Taiwan and Macau.\n\nMalaysian authorities found some bubble tea products were contaminated with DEHP and the importers were instructed to halt importation and ceased distribution of the products in Malaysia.\n\nThe Philippines authorities banned DEHP affected products and carried out investigations of importers to ensure affected products were recalled.\n\nVietnamese health authorities raided and restricted importation of Taiwanese contaminated products.\n\nSouth Korea banned products affected by DEHP from Taiwan.\n\nCalifornia-based 99 Ranch Market, one of the largest Asian grocery chains in the United States, took plasticizer-contaminated beverages, from Taiwan, off the shelves.\n\nMa Ying-jeou has said that the government health units have launched the nation's largest-ever action to secure food safety by checking up to 16,000 food makers and outlets and removing from sales stands over 20,000 food and beverage items suspected of being contaminated with DEHP.\n\nHealth officials have inspected over 14,000 food vendors and stores around the island, taking over 20,000 products off shelves.\n\nMa has been criticized by the opposition DPP for his handling of the scandal. Opposition spokesperson Lin Yu-chang pushed the Ma Ying-jeou administration to come out with a new \"D-Day\" to combat the national plasticizer scare. The KMT criticized the DPP for their inability to detect DEHP while it was in power. They pointed out that DPP legislator Huang Sue-ying spoke against placing DEHP on the EPA's class-1 control list of toxic substances. KMT legislator Chiu Yi also alleged that the DPP had ties with the owner of the Yu Shen Company, Lai Chun-chieh. Lai's son also claimed on his Facebook that DEHP was not responsible for cancer, contrary to studies that show otherwise.\n\n"}
{"id": "52992201", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52992201", "title": "Agriculture in the Middle Ages", "text": "Agriculture in the Middle Ages\n\nAgriculture in the Middle Ages describes the farming practices, crops, technology, and agricultural society and economy of Europe from the fall of the Western Roman Empire in 476 CE to approximately 1500 CE. The Middle Ages are sometimes called the Medieval Age or Period. The Middle Ages are also divided into the Early, High, and Late Middle Ages. The early modern period followed the Middle Ages. \n\nEpidemics and climatic cooling caused a large decrease in the European population in the 6th century. Compared to the Roman period, agriculture in the Middle Ages in western Europe became more focused on self-sufficiency. The Feudal period began about 1000 CE. The agricultural population under feudalism in northern Europe was typically organized into manors consisting of several hundred or more acres of land presided over by a Lord of the Manor, with a Roman Catholic church and priest. Most of the people living on the manor were peasant farmers or serfs who grew crops for themselves and either labored for the lord and church or paid rent for their land. Barley and wheat were the most important crops in most European regions; oats and rye were also grown, along with a variety of vegetables and fruits. Oxen and horses were used as draft animals. Sheep were raised for wool and pigs were raised for meat. \n\nCrop failures due to bad weather were frequent throughout the Middle Ages and famine was often the result. Despite the hardships, there is anthropometric evidence that medieval European men were taller (and therefore presumably better fed) than the men of the preceding Roman Empire and the subsequent early modern era. \n\nThe medieval system of agriculture began to break down in the 14th century with the development of more intensive agricultural methods in the Low Countries and after the population losses of the Black Death in 1347-1351 made more land available to a diminished number of farmers. Medieval farming practices, however, continued with little change in the Slavic regions and some other areas until the mid-19th century. \n\nThree events set the stage – and would influence agriculture for centuries – in Europe. First was the fall of the western Roman Empire which began to lose territory to \"barbarian\" invaders about 400 CE. The last western Roman emperor abdicated in 476 CE. Thereafter, the lands and people of the former western Roman Empire would be divided among different ethnic groups, whose rule was often ephemeral and constantly in flux. Unifying factors of Europe were the gradual adoption of the Christian religion by most Europeans and in western Europe the use of Latin as a common language of international communication, scholarship, and science. Greek had a similar status in the Eastern Roman Empire.\n\nSecondly was an era of global cooling which started in 536 CE and ended about 660 CE. The cooling was caused by volcanic eruptions in 536, 540, and 547. The Byzantine historian Procopius said that \"the sun put forth it's light without brightness.\" Summer temperatures in Europe dropped as much as 2.5°C (4.5°F) and the sky was dimmed from volcanic dust in the atmosphere for 18 months, sufficient to cause crop failures and famine. Temperatures remained lower than the preceding Roman period for more than one hundred years. The Late Antique Little Ice Age preceded, and may have influenced, a number of disruptive events, including pandemics, human migration, and political turmoil.\n\nThird, was the Plague of Justinian which began in 541 CE, spread throughout Europe, and recurred periodically until 750. The plague may have killed up to 25 percent of the people of the eastern Roman or Byzantine Empire and a similar percentage in western and northern Europe. The double impact on population of climatic cooling and the plague led to reduced harvests of grain. John of Ephesus's account of travel through rural areas speaks of \"crops of wheat...white and standing but there was no one reap them and store the wheat\" and \"Vineyards, whose picking season came and went\" with nobody to pick and press the grapes. John also speaks of the \"severe winter\", presumably caused by volcanic dust.\n\nThe consequence of these factors was that the population of Europe was substantially less in 600 CE than it had been in 500 CE. The estimate of one scholar was that the population on the Italian peninsula decreased from 11 million in 500 to 8 million in 600 and remained at that level for nearly 300 years. The declines in the population of other parts of Europe were probably of similar magnitude.\n\nThe popular view is that the fall of the Western Roman Empire caused a \"dark age\" in western Europe in which \"knowledge and civility\", the \"arts of elegance,\" and \"many of the useful arts\" were neglected or lost. Conversely, however, the lot of the farmers who made up 80 percent or more of the total population, may have improved in the aftermath of the Roman Empire. The fall of Rome saw the \"shrinking of tax burdens, weakening of the aristocracy, and consequently greater freedom for peasants.\" The countryside of the Roman Empire was dotted with \"villas\" or estates, characterized by Pliny the Elder as \"the ruin of Italy.\" The estates were owned by wealthy aristocrats and worked in part by slaves. More than 1,500 villas are known to have existed in England alone. With the fall of Rome, the villas were abandoned or transformed into utilitarian rather than elite uses. \"In western Europe, then, we seem to see the effect of a release from the pressure of the Roman imperial market, army and taxation, and a return to farming based more on local needs.\"\n\nThe population declines of the 6th century, and, thus, a shortage of labor may have facilitated greater freedom among rural people who were either slaves or had been bound to the land under Roman law.\nThe Eastern Roman Empire. Early in the Middle Ages the agricultural history of the Eastern Roman Empire differed from that of western Europe. The 5th and 6th centuries saw an expansion of market-oriented and industrial farming, especially of olive oil and wine, and the adoption of new technology such as oil and wine presses. The settlement patterns in the east were also different than the west. Rather than the villas of the Roman Empire in the west, the farmers of the east lived in villages which continued to exist and even expand.\n\nIberian peninsula. The Iberian Peninsula seems to have experienced a different experience than eastern and western Europe. There is evidence of abandonment of farmland and reforestation due to depopulation, but also evidence of expanded grazing and market-oriented livestock raising of horses, mules, and donkeys. The economy of the Iberian peninsula seems to have become disconnected from the rest of Europe and, instead, it became a major trading partner of North Africa in the fifth century, long before the Umayyad conquest of the peninsula in 711.\n\nIn what historian Andrew Watson called the Arab Agricultural Revolution, the Arab Islamic rulers of much of Al Andalus (8th through the 15th centuries CE) introduced or popularized a large number of new crops and new agricultural technology into the Iberian peninsula (Spain and Portugal). The crops introduced by the Arabs included sugar cane, rice, hard wheat (durum), citrus, cotton, and figs. Many of these crops required sophisticated methods of irrigation, water management, and \"agricultural technologies such as crop rotation, management of pests, and fertilizing crops by natural means.\" Some scholars have questioned how much of the Arab (or Muslim) Agricultural Revolution was unique, and how much was a revival and expansion of technology developed in the Middle East during the centuries of Roman rule. Whether credit of invention belongs mostly to the people of the Middle East during the Roman Empire or to the arrival of the Arabs, \"the Iberian landscape changed profoundly\" beginning in the 8th century.\n\nGradually, the Roman system of villas and agricultural estates using partly slave labor was replaced by manoralism and serfdom. Historian Peter Sarris has identified the characteristics of feudal society in sixth century Italy, and even earlier in the Byzantine Empire and Egypt. One of the differences between the villa and medieval manor was that the agriculture of the villa was commercially oriented and specialized while the manor was directed toward self-sufficiency. \n\nSlavery, important for the agricultural labor force of the Roman Empire, died out in western Europe by 1100 CE. The slaves of the Roman Empire were property, like livestock, with no rights of personhood and could be sold or traded at the will of his owner. Similarly, The serf was tied to the land and could not leave his servitude, but his tenure on the land was secure. If the manor changed owners the serfs remained on the land. Serfs had limited rights to property, although their freedom of movement was limited and they owed labor or rent to their lord.\n\nFeudalism was in full flower for most of northern Europe by 1000 AD and its heartland was the rich agricultural lands in the Seine valley of France and the Thames valley of England. The medieval population was divided into three groups: those who pray, those who fight, and those who work. The serf and farmer supported with labor and taxes the clergy who prayed and the noble lords, knights, and warriors who fought. In return the farmer received the benefits (or burden) of religion and protection by mounted and heavily armored soldiers. The church took its tithe and the soldiers required a large economic investment. A social and legal gulf resulted between the priest, the knight, and the farmer. Moreover, with the end of the Carolingian Empire (800-888 CE), the power of kings declined and the central authority was little felt. Thus, the European countryside became a patchwork of small, semi-autonomous fiefdoms of lords and clergy ruling over a populace mostly of farmers, some relatively prosperous, some possessing land, and some landless. \nA major factor contributing to the death of feudalism in most of Europe was the Black Death of 1347-1351 and subsequent epidemics which killed one-third or more of the people of Europe. In the aftermath of the Black Death, land was abundant and labor was scarce and the rigid relationships among farmers. the church, and the nobility changed. Feudalism is generally regarded as having ended in western Europe around 1500, although serfs were not finally freed in Russia until 1861. \n\nThe Manor. Agricultural land in the Middle Ages under feudalism was usually organized in manors. The medieval manor consisted of several hundred (or sometimes thousand) acres of land. A large manor house served as the home or part-time home of the lord of the manor. Some manors were under the authority of bishops or abbots of the Catholic church. Some lords owned more than one manor, and the church controlled large areas. Within the lands of a manor, a parish church and a nucleated village housing the farmers was usually near the manor house. The manor house, church, and village were surrounded by cultivated and fallow land, woods, and pasture. Some of the land was the demesne of the lord; some was allocated to individual farmers, and some to the parish priest. Some of the woods and pasture were held in common and used for grazing and wood-gathering. Most manors had a mill for grinding grain into flour and an oven to bake bread.\n\nThe field systems in Medieval Europe included the open-field system, so called because there were no barriers between fields belonging to different farmers. The landscape was one of long and uncluttered views. In its archetypal form, cultivated land consisted of long, narrow strips of land in a distinctive ridge and furrow pattern. Individual farmers owned or farmed several different strips of land scattered around the farming area. The reason for farmers possessing scattered strips of land was apparently to reduce risk; if the crop in one strip failed, it might thrive in another strip. The lord of the manor also had strips of land scattered around the fields as did the parish priest for the upkeep of the church. The open-field system required cooperation among the residents of the community and with the lord and the priest. \"Strips of land were cultivated individually, yet were subject to communal rotations and (typically) communal regulation of cropping.\" \n\nTwo patterns of cultivation were typical of the open-field system. In the first, the arable land was divided into two fields. One half was cultivated and the other one was left fallow every year. Crops were rotated between the two fields every year, with the fallow field being allowed to recover its fertility and used for livestock grazing when not dedicated to crops. The two-field system continued to be most prevalent throughout the Middle Ages in dry-summer Mediterranean climates in which grain crops were planted in fall and harvested in spring, the summer being too dry for spring-planted crops to prosper. \n\nA three-field pattern was typical of the later Middle Ages in northern Europe with its wetter climate. One field was planted in fall, one field was planted in spring, and the third field was left fallow. Crops were rotated from year to year and field to field. Thus, cultivation was more intensive than it was under the two-field pattern. In both patterns, common areas of wood and pasture as well as fallowed fields were used for communal grazing and wood-gathering. \n\nThe woods and meadows comprising common lands were open to exploitation to all farmers in the manor, but under strict management of the number of livestock allowed each farmer to avoid over grazing. Fallow fields were treated as common lands for grazing. \n\nThe open-field system had a more individualistic, less-communal variant, usually prevalent in less productive areas for agriculture. The strips of land cultivated by farmers were more concentrated, sometimes into a single block of land rather than scattered holdings. Crop decisions were often made by individuals or a small group of farmers rather than a whole village. An individual farmer might possess not only cultivated land, but woods and pastures, rather than the commons of the pure open-field system. Villages were often strung out along a road rather than nucleated as in the archetypal open-field system. \nAn enclosed field system was found mostly in pastoral areas, areas of mixed farming and pasture, and more marginal farming areas. The enclosed field system was characterized by individual decision making. Farmers typically enclosed their land with hedgerows, stones, or trees. The village church was often at a prominent location and houses were scattered rather than collected into a village. This individualistic field system was found in eastern and southwestern England, Normandy and Brittany in France, and scattered throughout Europe.\n\nFarmers were not equal in the amount of land they farmed. In a survey of seven English counties in 1279, perhaps typical of Europe as a whole, 46 percent of farmers held less than , which was insufficient land to support a family. Some were completely landless, or possessed only a small garden adjacent to their house. These poor farmers were often employed by richer farmers, or practiced a trade in addition to farming. \n\nThirty-three percent of farmers held about one-half virgate of land ( to , sufficient in most years to support a family. Twenty percent of farmers held about a full virgate, sufficient not only to support a family but to produce a surplus. A few farmers accumulated more than a virgate of land and thus were relatively wealthy, although not belonging to the nobility. These rich farmers might have tenants of their own and would hire labor to work their lands.\n\nThirty-two percent of arable land was held by the lord of the manor. The farmers of the manor were required to work for a specified number of days per year on the lord's land or to pay rent to the lord on the land they farmed.\n\nIn the late Roman Empire in Europe the most important crops were bread wheat in Italy and barley in northern Europe and the Balkans. Near the Mediterranean Sea viticulture and olives were important. Rye and oats were only slowly becoming major crops. The Romans introduced viticulture to more northerly areas such as Paris and the valleys of the Moselle and Rhine rivers. Cultivation of olives in medieval France was traditional on the southeastern coast bordering on Italy, but apparently the cultivation of olives in Languedoc began on a large scale began in areas only in the 15th century. \n\nIn Roman times, spelt, a kind of wheat, was the most common grain grown on the upper Danube River in Swabia, Germany, and spelt continued to be an important crop in many areas of Europe throughout medieval times. Emmer wheat was of much less importance in Swabia and most of Europe. Bread wheat was relatively unimportant in Swabia. \n\nIn the eighth through 11th century, in northern France, the most important crops were (in approximate order) rye (\"Secale cereale\"), bread wheat, barley, and, oats (\"Avena sativa\"). Barley and oats were the most important crops in Normandy and Brittany. Rye is more winter-hardy and tolerant of poor soils than wheat, and thus became the dominant crop on many marginal and northernmost European sites. Another hardy crop, bere, a kind of barley, was grown in Scandinavia and England and especially in marginal agricultural areas in Scotland. \nIn the lowlands of the Netherlands and adjacent France, soil influenced the crops planted. On sandy soils, in a three-field system, wheat was nearly absent as a crop with rye planted as a winter crop and oats and barley being the principle spring-planted crops. On more fertile loess and loamy soils, wheat, including spelt, became much more important replacing rye in many areas. Other crops included pulses (beans and peas) and fruits and vegetables. Farmers of loess and loamy soils planted a wider variety of crops than those on sandy soils.\n\nIn Wiltshire England in the 13th and 14th centuries, wheat, barley, and oats were the three most common crops, with varying percentages of each on different manors. Legumes were planted on up to 8 percent of the common fields. In addition to the grain crops in the common fields of the open-field system, farmer's houses usually had a small garden (croft) near their house in which they grew vegetables such as cabbages, onions, peas and beans; an apple, cherry or pear tree; and raised a pig or two and a flock of geese. \n\nLivestock. Livestock was more important in northern Europe than in the Mediterranean area where dry weather in summer reduced the fodder available for animals. Near the Mediterranean, sheep and goats were the most important farm animals and transhumance (seasonal movement of livestock) was common. In northern Europe cattle, pigs, and horses were also important. Mediterranean soils were lighter than those commonly found in northern Europe, thus reducing the need of Mediterranean farmers for oxen and horses as draft animals. Cattle, especially oxen, were vital in northern Europe as draft animals. Plow teams, ideally comprising eight oxen, were necessary to plow the heavy soils. Few farmers were wealthy enough to own a full team and thus plowing required cooperation and sharing of draft animals among farmers. Horses in Roman times were owned mostly by the wealthy but they were increasingly used as draft animals to replace oxen after about 1000 CE. Oxen were cheaper to own and maintain, but horses were faster. Pigs were the most important animals raised for meat in medieval England and other parts of northern Europe. Pigs were prolific and required little care. Sheep produced wool, skin (for parchment), meat, and milk, though less valuable in the marketplace than pigs.\n\nCrop yields in the Middle Ages were extremely low compared to those of the 21st century, although probably not inferior to those in much of the Roman Empire preceding the Middle Ages and the early modern period following the Middle Ages. The most common means of calculating yield was the number of seeds harvested compared to the number of seeds planted. On several manors in Sussex England, for example, the average yield for the years 1350-1399 was 4.34 seeds produced for each seed sown for wheat, 4.01 for barley, and 2.87 for oats. (By contrast, wheat production in the 21st century can total 30 to 40 seeds harvested for each seed sown.) Average yields of grain crops in England from 1250 to 1450 were 7 to 15 bushels per acre. (470 to 1000 kg per ha.) Poor years, however, might see yields drop to less than 4 bushels per acre. Yields in the 21st century, by contrast, can range upwards to 60 bushels per acre. The yields in England were probably typical for Europe in the Middle Ages.\n\nScholars have often criticized medieval agriculture for its inefficiency and low productivity. The inertia of an established system was blamed. \"Everyone was forced to conform to village norms of cropping, harvesting, and building.\" Two reputed inefficiencies of the predominant open-field system were the communal management of land which resulted in less that optimal allocation of resources and the fact that farmers had small, scattered strips of land to cultivate which was wasting of time in traveling from one strip to another. Belying the reputed inefficiencies, however. the open-field system existed for roughly one thousand years over large parts of Europe and only disappeared slowly from 1500 CE to 1800 CE. Moreover, the replacement of the open-field system by privately owned property was fiercely resisted by many elements of society. The \"brave new world\" of a harsher, more competitive and capitalistic society from the 16th century onward destroyed the securities and certainties of land tenure in the open-field system.\n\nThe \"Postan Thesis\" is also cited as a factor in the low productivity of medieval agriculture. Productivity suffered because of inadequate fertilization to keep the land productive. This was due to a shortage of pasture for farm animals and, thus, a shortage of nitrogen-rich manure to fertilize the arable land. Moreover, because of population growth after 1000 CE, marginal lands, pasture, and woodlands were converted into arable lands which further reduced the number of farm animals and the quantity of manure. \n\nThe earliest evidence of progress in increasing productivity comes in the 14th and 15th centuries from the Low Countries of the Netherlands and Belgium, and Flanders in northern France. The agricultural practices there involved the near elimination of fallow land by planting cover crops such as vetch, beans, turnips, spurry, and broom and high-value crops such as rapeseed, madder and hops. As opposed to the extensive agriculture of medieval times, this new technique involved intensive cultivation of small plots of land. Techniques of intensive cultivation quickly spread to Norfolk in England, agriculturally-speaking the most advanced area of England. These advancements aside, it was the 17th century before England saw widespread increases in agricultural productivity in what was called the British Agricultural Revolution.\n\nThe low level of medieval yields persisted in Russia and some other areas until the 19th century. In 1850, the average yield for grain in Russia was 600 kilograms per hectare (about 9 bushels per acre), less than one half the yield in England and the Low Countries at that time.\n\nFamines caused by crop failures and poor crop years were an ever present danger in medieval Europe. It was often not possible to relive a famine in one area by importing grain from another area as the difficulty of overland transportation caused the price of grain to double for each 50 miles it was transported \n\nOne study concluded that famines in Europe occurred on an average every 20 years between the years 750 CE and 950 CE. The principle causes were extreme weather and climatic anomalies which reduced agriculture production. Warfare was not found to be a major cause of famine. A study of crop failures in Winchester, England from 1232 CE to 1349 CE found that harvest failure occurred an average of every 12 years for wheat and every 8 years for barley and oats. Localized famine may have occurred in years in which one or more crops failed. Weather was again identified as the chief cause. Climatic change may have played a part as the Little Ice Age may have begun between 1275 and 1300 with a consequent shortening of the growing season.\n\nWarfare was apparently responsible for a major famine in Hungary from 1243 to 1245. These were the years in the aftermath of the Mongol invasion and widespread destruction. Twenty to 50 percent of the population of Hungary is estimated to have died of hunger and war. Other areas of eastern Europe may also have been impacted by the Mongol invasion.\n\nThe best known and most extensive famine of the Middle Ages was the Great Famine of 1315-1317 (which actually persisted to 1322) that impacted 30 million people in northern Europe of whom five to ten percent died. The famine came near the end of three centuries of growth in population and prosperity. The causes were \"severe winters and rainy springs, summers and falls.\" Yields of crops fell by one-third or one-fourth and draft animals died in large numbers. The Black Death of 1347-1352 was more lethal, but the Great Famine was the worst natural catastrophe of the later Middle Ages.\n\nThe most important technical innovation for agriculture in the Middle Ages was the widespread adoption about 1000 CE of the mouldboard plow and its close relative, the heavy plow. These two plows enabled medieval farmers to exploit the fertile but heavy clay soils of northern Europe. In the Roman era and on light soils, the ard or scratch plow had sufficed. The mouldboard and heavy plows turned the soil over which facilitated the control of weeds and their incorporation into the soil, increasing fertility. Mouldboard plowing also produced the familiar ridge and furrow pattern of medieval fields which facilitated drainage of excess moisture. \"By allowing for better field drainage, access [to] the most fertile soils, and saving of peasant labor time, the heavy plow stimulated food production and, as a consequence 'population growth, specialization of function, urbanization, and the growth of leisure.'\"\n\nTwo additional advances coming into general use in Europe about 1000 CE were the horse collar and the horseshoe. The horse collar increased the pulling capacity of a horse. The horseshoe protected a horse's hooves. These advances resulted in the horse becoming an alternative to slow-moving oxen as a draft animal and for transportation. \n\nThese technological innovations and the additional agricultural production they stimulated resulted in Europe experiencing a large increase in population from 1000 CE (or earlier) to 1300 CE, an increase that was reversed by the Great Famine and the Black Death of the 14th century.\n\nAlthough the Middle Ages is often portrayed as an era of deprivation and oppression of the farmer and other workers, there is evidence that the life of a medieval farmer was no more difficult -- and possibly better -- than that of the average citizen of the Roman Empire before the Middle Ages and the Early Modern Period (c. 1500 CE to 1800 CE) after the Middle Ages. For example, in an examination of skeletons, the average height of males in northern Europe (Scandinavia, the Netherlands, and England) who died around the year 1000 CE was . Average stature in northern Europe declined thereafter, reaching a low in the 17th and 18th century when the average height of males was . The average height of a population is a good measurement of the adequacy of its access to necessities such as food, clothing, shelter, and medical care. Cities were notoriously unhealthy until the 19th century and thus the rural life of the medieval farmer may have been healthy by comparison.\n\nA study of 9,477 skeletons collected from all of Europe reached a similar conclusion that European men in the Middle Ages were slightly taller than their Roman ancestors and early modern successors. The average height of men during the Roman Empire was about . In the 6th century, shortly after the traditional date for the fall of Rome, average height jumped to , and men remained slightly taller than the Roman average for most of the Middle Ages. Average height of men in Europe reached a low point of less than in the 17th century.\n"}
{"id": "4815038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4815038", "title": "Alexander von Frantzius", "text": "Alexander von Frantzius\n\nAlexander von Frantzius (10 June 1821, in Danzig – 18 July 1877) was a German physician and naturalist.\n\nHe studied medicine at the universities of Heidelberg, Erlangen, Halle and Berlin, where in 1846, he obtained his doctorate. In 1853, with fellow naturalist, Karl Hoffmann, he journeyed to Costa Rica, where he would spend the next 15 years conducting geographical, climatological, ethnographical and zoological research. Many of the zoological specimens he collected were sent to Jean Cabanis at the Berlin Museum.\n\nAfter arriving in Costa Rica, he settled in Alajuela (1854), later setting up a successful pharmacy in San José, an institution that eventually became known as the \"Botica Francesa\". Here he employed José Castulo Zeledón as an assistant. He returned to Germany in 1868, settling in Heidelberg, from where he served as secretary of the \"Gesellschaft für Anthropologie\" (German Anthropological Society). In July 1877, he died in Freiburg from lung disease.\n\nHe is commemorated in the names of a number of animals, including the prong-billed barbet \"Semnornis frantzii\", the fiery-billed aracari \"Pteroglossus frantzii\", the mountain elaenia \"Elaenia frantzii\" and the ruddy-capped nightingale-thrush \"Catharus frantzii\". The botanical genus \"Frantzia\" (Cucurbitaceae) was named in his honor by Henri Pittier.\n\n"}
{"id": "22857636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22857636", "title": "American Association of Suicidology", "text": "American Association of Suicidology\n\nThe American Association of Suicidology (AAS) is a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization which advocates for suicide prevention. It was established in 1968 by Edwin Shneidman, who has been called \"a pioneer in suicide prevention.\" Its official journal is \"Suicide and Life-Threatening Behavior\", published six times a year by Wiley-Blackwell.\n\nThe American Association of Suicidology encourages further study in the field of suicidology by clinicians as well as the general public. The AAS states their mission is to encompass advanced study into suicidology as a field of science, educate the public in efforts to reduce the number of suicides worldwide, analyze and break down suicidal behaviors, and promote further research and training in the growing field of suicidology. The AAS hosts a campaign for both National Suicide Prevention Month and Week as well as public awareness campaigns to introduce new research and preventative measures for people who are currently dealing or have dealt with suicidal thoughts and behaviors. The AAS offers handbooks for suicide survivors and their friends and families to promote healing and a better understanding of suicidal triggers and causes.\n\nSuicidology is the study of suicidal behaviors, risk factors of those behaviors, and suicide prevention. Suicidology combines both psychology and sociology to analyze the causes of suicidal behaviors and effective prevention methods.\n\nResearch has pointed towards hopelessness, impulsivity, social isolation, and exposure to violence as strong risk factors surrounding suicide.\n\nThe Annual Healing Conference and the Survivors of Suicide are support groups that work to combat the risk factors of suicide through the emphasis on social interaction and interpersonal relationships. Educational programs and suicide specific skills and knowledge have proven effective in the treatment of suicidal patients.\n\nMembership of the AAS includes but is not limited to mental and public health professionals, researchers, suicide preventionists, interventionist and crisis intervention centers, as well as suicide survivors and those interested in suicide prevention.\n\nThe AAS currently offers four different types of suicide prevention programs.\n\nThe Survivors of Suicide program aims at helping suicide survivors connect with one another and share their experiences in a group setting.\n\nTraining and Accreditation programs focus on utilizing techniques and skills to eliminate suicidal behaviors. Mental health professionals, school and youth personnel, and crisis workers primarily make up this program.\n\nAnnual conferences are held by the AAS where researchers and practitioners gather to discuss the best research in the field of suicidology.\n\nThe National Center for the Prevention of Youth Suicide includes a Youth Advisory Board that provides insight on projects aimed at suicide prevention and reaching its adolescent demographic.\n\nResearch points to an extreme lack of training in suicide prevention for many fields of psychology and social work. Numbers from a national survey reported less than 25% of social workers having been trained in suicide prevention. The AAS is determined to prevent inadequately trained social workers and mental health professionals from working with potentially suicidal patients who display suicidal risk factors. The AAS believes promoting research and effective training for not only mental health professionals and social workers, but to the general public, will help prevent inadequate treatment in all psychological and social fields of work.\n\nThe AAS plans to spread suicidology as a field of scientific study and strives to reduce the number os suicide cases through research and analysis. In efforts to improve the field of suicidology, the International Academy for Suicide Research launched a task force to combat suicidal behaviors, causes, and risk factors to come up with better solutions and prevention programs.\n"}
{"id": "28958802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28958802", "title": "Beaivi", "text": "Beaivi\n\nBeaivi, Beiwe, Bievve, Beivve or Biejje, is the Sami name of the Sun or might refer to the Sami Sun-deity. The Sami Sun-deity is mostly depicted female but sometimes also as male. In Sápmi, north of the Polar circle, where the Sun during the winter-period, does not even reach the horizon, it is not hard to believe, that the Sun was appreciated and played a major role in the cultic coherence. Buorre beaivi means good day in Northern Sámi but doesn't have to associate with the Sun-deity.\n\nBeaivi is the spring and sun goddess of fertility and sanity was worshiped by the Sami, one of the indigenous peoples of Fennoscandia. \n\nOn the Winter solstice, a white female reindeer or other white animals were sacrificed in honor of Beivve, to ensure that she returned to the world and put an end to the long winter season. At the time of the year when the Sun was returning, butter (which melts in the sunshine) was smeared on the doorposts, as a sacrifice to Beivve, so that she could gain strength during her convalescence and go higher and higher in the sky. At Summer solstice, people made sun-rings out of leaves and pinned them up in her honor. At these occasions, they also ate butter as a sacral meal. \n\nBeivve was often accompanied by her daughter, Beaivi-nieida (the sun maiden) in an enclosure of reindeer antlers.\n\nBeivve brought fertility back to the Arctic region, she made the plants grow, so that the reindeer flourished and reproduced, and brought wealth and prosperity to the humans.\n\nAt the time of the year when Beivve returned, prayers were made for the people who were mentally ill. The Sami considered - quite correctly - that madness in the shape of psychoses and depressions were provoked by the lack of sunshine and light during the dark winter-season.\n\nIn Sami myth, she travels with her daughter Beaivi-nieida through the sky in an enclosure covered by reindeer bones, bringing green plants back to the winter earth for the reindeer to eat. She was also called upon to restore the mental health of those who went insane because of the continual darkness of the long winter.\n\nWorshipers of Beaivi used to sacrifice white female animals, and thread the meat onto sticks which they bend into rings and tie with bright ribbons. They also cover their doorposts with butter so Beaivi can eat it and begin her journey once again. This is called the Festival of Beaivi. \n\nShe is associated with the fertility of plants and animals, in particular reindeer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1493799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1493799", "title": "Biocomplexity Institute of Virginia Tech", "text": "Biocomplexity Institute of Virginia Tech\n\nThe Biocomplexity Institute of Virginia Tech (formerly the Virginia Bioinformatics Institute) is a research organization specializing in bioinformatics, computational biology, and systems biology. The Institute has more than 250 personnel, including over 50 tenured and research faculty. Research at the Institute involves collaboration in diverse disciplines such as mathematics, computer science, biology, plant pathology, biochemistry, systems biology, statistics, economics, synthetic biology and medicine. The institute develops -omic and bioinformatic tools and databases that can be applied to the study of human, animal and plant diseases as well as the discovery of new vaccine, drug and diagnostic targets.\n\nThe Institute's programs are supported by a variety of government and private agencies including the National Institutes of Health, National Science Foundation, U.S. Department of Defense, U.S. Department of Agriculture, and U.S. Department of Energy. Since inception, the Biocomplexity Institute has received over $179 million in extramural support. It has a research portfolio totaling $68 million in grants and contracts. The Institute's executive director is Chris Barrett.\n\nThe Institute opened in July 2000 in space in the Virginia Tech Corporate Research Center; it was hosted briefly in Building XI, then Building X, until it moved to Building XV in 2002, which was designed to host the institute. In January 2005, it moved into a new building on the main Virginia Tech's campus, called \"Bioinformatics Facility Phase I and II\", but retained its existing space in the CRC. In 2011, the Institute moved its National Capital Region office into the Virginia Tech building in Arlington, Virginia. In 2015, the Virginia Bioinformatics Institute (VBI) was quietly renamed and rebranded as the \"Biocomplexity Institute\". In November 2016, the home of the institute on Virginia Tech's main campus was dedicated as Steger Hall, after former Virginia Tech President Charles Steger.\n\nThe Advanced Computing and Informatics Laboratories (ACIL) is dedicated to \"Policy Informatics\", including the Network Dynamics and Simulation Science Laboratory (NDSSL). It pursues research and development in interaction-based modeling, simulation, and associated analysis, experimental design, and decision support tools for understanding large biological, information, social, and technological systems.It includes the Comprehensive National Incident Management System project for developing a system to provide the United States military with detailed operational information about the populations being affected by a possible crisis. It also includes the project, “Modeling Disease Dynamics on Large, Detailed, Co-Evolving Networks,” which supports work to develop high-performance computer models for the study of very large networks, .\n\nThe Cyberinfrastructure Division (CID) develops methods, infrastructure, and resources primarily for infectious disease research. The “Pathosystems Resource Integration Center - Bioinformatics Resource Center for Bacterial Diseases” aims to integrate information on pathogens, provide resources and tools to analyzize genomic, proteomic and other data arising from infectious disease research. It is part of the Middle-Atlantic Regional Center of Excellence for Biodefense and Emerging Infectious Diseases Research (MARCE), which focuses on research to enable rapid defense against bioterror and emerging infectious diseases. Specific diseases and disease-causing agents under investigation include anthrax, West Nile Virus, smallpox, and cryptosporidiosis The division collaborates with Georgetown University and Social and Scientific Systems, Inc (SSS) on the Administrative Center of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases-funded Proteomics Research Resource Center (PRC) for Biodefense Proteomics Research project. The team helps design, develop, and maintain a publicly accessible Web site containing data and technology protocols generated by each PRC, as well as a catalog that lists reagents and products available for public distribution.\n\nThe Biological Systems Division develops computational methods for studying biochemical networks using experimental data . It developed COPASI (Complex Pathway Simulator), an open-source software package that allows users with limited experience in mathematics to construct models and simulations of biochemical networks. It also developed GenoCAD, a web-based Computer Assisted Design environment for synthetic biology.\n\nThe Medical Informatics & Systems (MIS) Division focuses on human genetics and disease, especially cancer and neurological disorders. It collaborates with Carilion Clinics, Virginia Tech Carilion School of Medicine and Research Institute, and other universities and government agencies.\n\nThe Network Dynamics and Simulation Science Laboratory (NDSSL) at ACDIL pursues programs for interaction-based modeling, simulation, and associated analysis, experimental design, and decision support tools for understanding large and complex systems. Extremely detailed, high-resolution, multi-scale computer simulations allow formal and experimental investigation of these systems.\n\nSocial and Decision Analytics Laboratory (SDAL) focuses on the use and development of analytical technology in the areas of public health policy, national and international security policy & public and social policy.\n\nThe Nutritional Immunology and Molecular Medicine Laboratory (NIMML) was founded in 2002 to investigate fundamental mechanisms of gut enteric immunity, and identifying biomarkers and therapeutic targets for inflammatory and immune-mediated diseases. The center has discovered the mechanism of action underlying the anti-inflammatory actions of Conjugated linoleic acid in inflammatory bowel disease, and the insulin sensitizing and anti-inflammatory effects of abscisic acid. Its Center for Modeling Immunity to Enteric Pathogens Program is applying high performance computing techniques to model and simulate human immunology systems and help immunologists conduct quick in silico experiments to narrow down experimental design, validate their hypotheses and save significant time and laboratory cost. The NIMML is collaborating with the Center for Global Health at University of Virginia, the Department of Gastroenterology and University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill and other medical schools and leading several human clinical trials on safer therapies for inflammatory and immune mediated diseases. It has recently established a partnership with the Division of Gastroenterology at the Carilion Clinic to launch a joint translational research program in inflammatory bowel diseases.\n\nThe Institute occupies more than on the Virginia Tech campus, including over of laboratory space, designed for flexibility and to house computing and laboratory facilities. The Institute occupies in Alexandria, Virginia, as part of Virginia Tech National Capital Region. The institute's infrastructure includes core facilities that integrate high-throughput data generation and data analysis capabilities.\n\nThe Core Computational Facility has three data centers occupying over , with over 250 servers totalling over 10.5 TB of RAM, distributed over more than 2650 processor cores. It has a storage area network with over 1 PB of disk and 3 PB of tape, expandable to 50 PB.\n\nThe Genomics Research Laboratory: has of laboratory space located at the Institute's main building. It possesses state-of-the-art Roche GS-FLX, Illumina and Ion Torent genome sequencers. It includes the Affymetrix National Custom Array Center for custom microarray design, sample processing and analytical services\n\nThe Data Analysis Core: offers Turnkey service to analyze -omics and other data from raw data in to manuscript ready figures and text out. It also provides Nexgen sequence assembly and annotation; microarray design, analysis and interpretation; mass spec data analysis; data QC; hypothesis generation; experimental design; statistical data analysis\n\nK–12 programs include \"Kids' Tech University,\" (an educational research program for sparking interest in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics disciplines), the Climate Change Student Summit (C2S2) for teachers and students, and High School Summer Internships\n\nUndergraduate Programs include Research Experiences for Undergraduates in microbiology and in systems biology (MSSB), and a Summer Research Institute (GSRI) for foreign and local students.\n\nThe Institute is the home of the Genomics, Bioinformatics, Computational Biology Graduate Program at Virginia Tech, and accommodates students in various Virginia Tech departments.\n\n"}
{"id": "39709372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39709372", "title": "Bridge of Grand Arvou", "text": "Bridge of Grand Arvou\n\nThe Bridge of Gran Arvou (Italian: \"Ponte acquedotto di Grand Arvou\", French: \"Pont aqueduc du Grand Arvou\") is an aqueduct-bridge in the \"frazione\" Porossan of Aosta, north-western Italy. It span the Rû Prévôt irrigation canal, and includes a large corridor covered by flagstones. Another aqueduct-bridge, the Petit Arvou, is located a few meters downstream.\n\nIn the late 13th-early 14th century, there was a series of programs aiming to improve the irrigation level in Aosta Valley, due to increased demand of animal husbandry. One of this was the construction of canal, the Rû Prévôt, by will of Henry of Quart, provost (hence the name) of the Aosta Cathedral. This included also the couple of bridge-aqueducts which are now visible.\n\nThe income of the canal exploitation was later acquired by the Dukes (later Kings) of Savoy.\n\nIn the 20th century, the canal was mostly (11,9 km out of 12) channeled into pipes.\n\nThe Grand Arvou is an arch bridge, with a span of 68.5 m and an elevation of 13,60 m between the arch's top and the ground; the distance between the roof and the base of the arch is 10,5 m.\n\nThe bridge is built in mortar and small incoherent stones, with partial plastering. The plan is irregular, with a general trapezoidal shape, but without the main parallel side; the walls's thickness varies from 50 to 55 cm. The roof is covered by flagstones, which helped it resist to the centuries.\n\n"}
{"id": "56823863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56823863", "title": "Buena Vista Pumping Plant", "text": "Buena Vista Pumping Plant\n\nBuena Vista Pumping Plant is a water pumping plant of the California State Water Project, located 22 miles (36 km) southwest of Bakersfield, within Kern County, in the San Joaquin Valley, central California. \n\nThe plant is the third pumping plant for the California Aqueduct. From Buena Vista, water flows to the Edmonston Pumping Plant, approximately 40 miles southeast, before being pumped over the Tehachapi Mountains.\n"}
{"id": "4490438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4490438", "title": "Canadian Federation of Nurses Unions", "text": "Canadian Federation of Nurses Unions\n\nThe Canadian Federation of Nurses Unions is a trade union centre in Canada. It represents the interests of Canadian nurses within the Canadian Labour Congress.\n\nThe CFNU is a member of the International Council of Nurses.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56168835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56168835", "title": "Cannabis in the Democratic Republic of the Congo", "text": "Cannabis in the Democratic Republic of the Congo\n\nCannabis in the Democratic Republic of the Congo is illegal.\n\nCannabis may have been introduced to the Congo region in the 1850s, carried there by Swahili traders from Zanzibar. In the 1880s, the Beni Diamba (People of Cannabis) movement popularized ritual use of cannabis in southwest Congo.\n\nCannabis is the only drug produced locally in the DRC (which is one of the largest producers in Africa) and is primarily for local consumption, though smaller amounts are smuggled to France and Belgium.\n"}
{"id": "42307510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42307510", "title": "Confetti candy", "text": "Confetti candy\n\nConfetti candy is a confectionery food product that is prepared with cooked sugar and corn syrup that is formed into sheets, cooled, and then cracked or broken into pieces. It has a hard, brittle texture. To add eye appeal, colored sugar is sometimes sprinkled atop after the cooking and shaping process has been performed.\n\nConfetti candy, also known as confetti sprinkles is also a confectionery that consists of flat or disc-shaped candy sprinkles These are similar to round nonpareils, but are prepared in disc form. It is often used to decorate confectioneries and other sweets.\n\n"}
{"id": "2393025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2393025", "title": "Coriaria thymifolia", "text": "Coriaria thymifolia\n\nCoriaria thymifolia, known as shanshi, is a plant found in the northern Andes. The plant is often mistaken for blueberries, however unlike blueberries, the fruit of the Shanshi is toxic and has hallucinogenic properties.\n"}
{"id": "2847689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2847689", "title": "Daughters of the Cross", "text": "Daughters of the Cross\n\nThe Daughters of the Cross of Liège () are Religious Sisters in the Catholic Church who are members of a religious congregation founded in 1833 by the Blessed Marie Thérèse Haze, F.C. (1782–1876). The organization's original mission is focused on caring for the needs of their society through education and nursing care.\n\nThe founder, born Jeanne Haze in the Prince-Bishopric of Liège, was forced into exile with her family in Germany when French Revolutionary Army forces occupied her principality. Her father died during that period, leaving the family in poverty.\n\nHer family returned to Liège. After their return, because of their own experiences, Haze and her sister Ferdinande felt drawn to help people in most need. When their mother died in 1820, the sisters wanted to enter a religious community, but were not able to do so due to the restrictions of Church law at the time. In an answer to a request by their pastor, Canon Cloes, the Dean of St Bartholomew Collegiate Church, the sisters opened a school for poor children in the parish in 1829 in the home of the curate of the parish, Canon Jean-Guillaume Habets. The creation of an independent Kingdom of Belgium the following year allowed them to establish the school officially as a Catholic institution.\nSoon other young women joined the pair in their desire to follow the consecrated life. Habets, originally skeptical of their desire, came to support them. He helped the group to write their Constitutions.\n\nOn September 8, 1833, the Haze sisters professed perpetual religious vows, receiving the names Mother Marie Thérèse and Mother Aloysia in the Carmelite Church of Potay, next to their own convent. Two other companions, Sisters Clara and Constance, made their temporary vows for one year and two postulants began their novitiate. Thus the Congregation of the Daughters of the Cross was established under a Rule of life based on Ignatian spirituality.\n\nThe Daughters of the Cross took over the administration of a women's prison in 1841 and a house for the rehabilitation of prostitutes the following year. In 1843 they opened a shelter for the homeless, which housed 125 residents.\n\nThe congregation was formally approved by Pope Gregory XVI on October 1, 1845, thereby raised to the status of a congregation of pontifical right. By that time the congregation had grown to 84 Sisters who operated 4 schools, with a total enrollment of about 1,000 girls. Of those girls, 80% were given a free education. Their Constitutions were approved by Pope Pius IX in 1851.\n\nThe Sisters began to serve in other countries with their establishing a foundation in Germany in 1849. At the invitation of the Vicar Apostolic of Bombay, they opened schools in the British Raj in 1861. This led to their working in the United Kingdom in 1863.\n\nIn 1855, Auguste Martin, the Bishop of the Diocese of Natchitoches, Louisiana, held conversations with Mother Mary Hyacinth (1816 - 1897) of the Daughters of the Cross to ask for missionary workers in Louisiana. Her Order was interested in teaching in America. Permission was granted by the Bishop of France for ten nuns to undertake this task. On Oct. 19, 1855, the Daughters of the Cross arrived in Avoyelles Parish. In 1860, Rev. John Pierre invited them to Shreveport to found a school next door to Holy Trinity Catholic Church (Shreveport, Louisiana), which remained open until 1954. By 1870, the Order had opened six schools in North Louisiana. In totality, 21 schools in the state were established by the Order over the years, including St John Berchmans Catholic School in Shreveport in 1949. \n\nAfter the Civil War’s end in 1866, Pierre advised the Order about a parcel of land south of Shreveport that would be an excellent location for a girl’s boarding school. Mother Hyacinth then purchased 100 acres and a building. St. Vincent’s Academy opened in October, 1868, as a day and boarding school solely for girls. It was accredited to confer high school diplomas and college degrees, as well as to teach first through 12th grades.\n\nThe school's enrollment continued to rise until a devastating Yellow fever epidemic in 1873. Subsequent growth was mostly due to the efforts of Rev. Napoleon Joseph Roulleaux, who was chaplain of the convent and school. In 1906, a fire destroyed the school but the buildings were rebuilt with a gothic design from clay bricks on the same property. In September, 1962, the academy was transferred to a new site on Fairfield Avenue, where it remained until its closure due to economic struggles at the end of the 1987-88 session, culminating in 119 years of devoted service by the Daughters of the Cross. St. Vincent’s Academy declined to consider a merger at the time with Loyola College Prep, which was a local all-male Catholic high school founded by the Jesuits in 1902.\n\nOnly a very small number of nuns from the Order remain in the Northern Louisiana community. They are retired and are no longer involved in the operations of any of the numerous remaining schools the Order founded in the region. The Order of the Daughters of the Cross, overall, now has a limited active presence in the United States, primarily restricted to ministries of caring for seniors, the sick, dying, and the homebound in Tracy, California, which are organized and conducted under the auspices of the United Kingdom province. In 1958, four nuns from the Daughters of the Cross of England had come to Tracy to open St. Bernard's School. Over the years their ministry expanded to Angel's Camp, Lockford, Manteca, San Andreas, and Stockton. Today, the sisters work in Manteca, Stockton, and Tracy.\n\nHaze sent her Sisters to England in 1863. In the United Kingdom, the Daughters of the Cross are constituted as a registered charity. In 2006–7 it had a gross income of £56,197,000, making it one of the 100 largest charities in the United Kingdom.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe congregation opened institutions in the Belgian Congo (1910), in Ireland (1920), in the Netherlands (1924), in Italy (1929) and in Brazil (1953). In 1975 the Sisters numbered about 1,500 members, serving in 113 institutions worldwide. By 2009 the membership had been reduced to 833 Sisters, a quarter of whom were Indian.\n\nThe General Motherhouse of the congregation was moved from Liège to England in 2012.\n\n"}
{"id": "13108881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13108881", "title": "Family secret", "text": "Family secret\n\nA family secret is a secret kept within a family. Most families have secrets, but the kind and importance vary. Family secrets can be shared by the whole family, by some family members or kept by an individual member of the family. The secret can relate to taboo topics, rule violations or just conventional secrets. Issues like homosexuality, adultery, infidelity, divorce, mental illness; crime such as rape or murder; physical or psychological abuse, child sexual abuse; sexual violence such as marital rape or pregnancy from rape; human sexual behavior like premarital pregnancy or teenage pregnancy; substance abuse including alcoholism. More simple secrets may be personality conflicts, death, religion, academic performance and physical health problems. Any topic that a family member thinks may cause anxiety may become a family secret. Family members often see keeping the secrets as important to keeping the family working, but over time the secrets can increase the anxiety in the family. The confidentiality of family secrets revealed by a patient is a common ethical dilemma for counselors and therapists.\n"}
{"id": "9178070", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9178070", "title": "Fat Camp: An MTV Docs Movie Presentation", "text": "Fat Camp: An MTV Docs Movie Presentation\n\nFat Camp: An MTV Docs Movie Presentation is a 2006 documentary television film about five teens at a fat camp founded by Tony Sparber, called Camp Pocono Trails (CPT), in the Poconos, Pennsylvania.\n"}
{"id": "210559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=210559", "title": "Fistula", "text": "Fistula\n\nA fistula is an abnormal connection between two hollow spaces (technically, two epithelialized surfaces), such as blood vessels, intestines, or other hollow organs. Fistulas are usually caused by injury or surgery, but they can also result from an infection or inflammation. Fistulas are generally a disease condition, but they may be surgically created for therapeutic reasons.\n\nIn botany, the term is most common in its adjectival forms, where it is used in binomial names to refer to species that are distinguished by hollow or tubular structures. Monarda fistulosa, for example, has tubular flowers; Eutrochium fistulosum has a tubular stem; Allium fistulosum has hollow or tubular leaves, and \"Acacia seyal\" ssp. \"fistula\" is the subspecies with hollow spines.\n\nFistulas can develop in various parts of the body. The following list is sorted by the International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nVarious types of fistulas include:\n\nAlthough most fistulas are in forms of a tube, some can also have multiple branches.\n\nVarious causes of fistula include:\n\nTreatment for fistula varies depending on the cause and extent of the fistula, but often involves surgical intervention combined with antibiotic therapy. \n\nTypically the first step in treating a fistula is an examination by a doctor to determine the extent and \"path\" that the fistula takes through the tissue. \n\nIn some cases the fistula is temporarily covered, for example a fistula caused by cleft palate is often treated with a palatal obturator to delay the need for surgery to a more appropriate age.\n\nSurgery is often required to assure adequate drainage of the fistula (so that pus may escape without forming an abscess). Various surgical procedures are commonly used, most commonly fistulotomy, placement of a seton (a cord that is passed through the path of the fistula to keep it open for draining), or an endorectal flap procedure (where healthy tissue is pulled over the internal side of the fistula to keep feces or other material from reinfecting the channel). Treatment involves filling the fistula with fibrin glue; also plugging it with plugs made of porcine small intestine submucosa have also been explored in recent years, with variable success. Surgery for anorectal fistulae is not without side effects, including recurrence, reinfection, and incontinence. High rate of recurrence and more chances of complications like incontinence are always there in fistula surgeries (Anal Fistula).\n\nIt is important to note that surgical treatment of a fistula without diagnosis or management of the underlying condition, if any, is not recommended. For example, surgical treatment of fistulae in Crohn's disease can be effective, but if the Crohn's disease itself is not treated, the rate of recurrence of fistula is very high (well above 50%).\n\nIn people with renal failure, requiring dialysis, a cimino fistula is often deliberately created in the arm by means of a short day surgery in order to permit easier withdrawal of blood for hemodialysis.\n\nAs a radical treatment for portal hypertension, surgical creation of a portacaval fistula produces an anastomosis between the hepatic portal vein and the inferior vena cava across the omental foramen (of Winslow). This spares the portal venous system from high pressure which can cause esophageal varices, caput medusae, and hemorrhoids.\n\nThe Latin word fistula (plural \"fistulas\" or \"fistulae\" ) literally means tube or pipe.\n\n"}
{"id": "6436645", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6436645", "title": "Floor effect", "text": "Floor effect\n\nIn statistics, a floor effect (also known as a basement effect) arises when a data-gathering instrument has a lower limit to the data values it can reliably specify. This lower limit is known as the \"floor\".\n\nFloor effects are occasionally encountered in psychological testing, when a test designed to estimate some psychological trait has a minimum standard score that may not distinguish some test-takers who differ in their responses on the test item content. Giving preschool children an IQ test designed for adults would likely show many of the test-takers with scores near the lowest standard score for adult test-takers (IQ 40 on most tests that were currently normed as of 2010). To indicate differences in current intellectual functioning among young children, IQ tests specifically for young children are developed, on which many test-takers can score well above the floor score. An IQ test designed to help assess intellectually disabled persons might intentionally be designed with easier item content and a lower floor score to better distinguish among individuals taking the test as part of an assessment process. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "29436118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29436118", "title": "Grindeks", "text": "Grindeks\n\nAS Grindeks (branded as Grindex), is a Latvian company listed on the Nasdaq Riga with production of pharmaceutical drugs, medicine and phytochemical medicine. The company was founded 17 October 1991 and is a joint stock company since 25 August 1997.\n\nOne of the key drugs for Grindeks is meldonium, marketed under the trade name Mildronate. Meldonium is used for the treatment of angina and myocardial infarction by inhibiting the carnitine biosynthesis pathway via the inhibition of gamma-butyrobetaine dioxygenase.\n\nIn 2017, Grindeks had a turnover revenue of €132.4 million with a profit of €10.3 million. Grindeks had 1355 employees and the main shareholders were Kirovs Lipmans (33.29%) and Anna Lipmane (16.65%)\n\n"}
{"id": "8701694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8701694", "title": "Health Threat Unit", "text": "Health Threat Unit\n\nThe Health Threat Unit of the Directorate-General for Health and Consumer Protection (European Commission), is responsible for terrorism surveillance and early warning of biological, chemical, and radiological threats within the European Union. The Health Threat Unit runs the \"Rapid Alert System\", which conducts surveillance on communicable diseases and diseases caused by acts of bioterrorism. The surveillance data are coordinated and evaluated by the \"Health Emergency Operations Facility\". Health threat information and warnings are sent to the member states by the Communication and Crisis Center (\"BICHAT\") and the Security Office in Brussels, Belgium.\n\nThe BICHAT sends a warning to the EU member states, within one hour of receiving a warning, when there is:\n\nBesides bioterrorism, the Health Threat Unit also has responsibility for other reportable diseases:\n\nWithin the Health Threat Unit, there are seven working groups responsible for various aspects of bio-defense:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35324964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35324964", "title": "Health in Guatemala", "text": "Health in Guatemala\n\nHealth in Guatemala is focused on many different systems of prevention and care. Guatemala’s Constitution states that every citizen has the universal right to health care. However, this right has been hard to guarantee due to limited government resources and other problems regarding access. The health care system in place today developed out of the Civil War in Guatemala. The Civil War prevented social reforms from occurring, especially in the sector of health care.\n\nToday, there have been many reforms to the health care system, but the current system continues to have significant problems. The country is on its way to develop a solid health care system, and is working toward achieving many of the Millennium Development Goals in place. However, the inequalities that are associated with outcomes and access have not been addressed, making it difficult for Guatemala to move forward in the field of health care. The ratio of doctors to residents is low, at .9 doctors per 1,000 citizens. The system requires a lot of change in order to serve the whole Guatemalan community.\n\nWhen the Civil War broke out in Guatemala, social improvements in health care were brought to a halt. The period of the 34-year Civil War (from 1954-mid 1980s) resulted in many changes within the health sector. The focus on health care was generally abandoned throughout the period of war when the country experienced a period of \"privatization through attrition,\" which generated poor service and low health care coverage for decades to follow. As Verduga mentions, the total GDP expenditures on health was only about 1 to 2 percent during this period of war. Therefore, it was the emergence of NGOs and other community organizations that allowed for basic health care to be provided to the general population.\n\nOnce the Guatemalan Civil War ended in 1996 with the signing of the Peace Accords, health care was placed in the hands of a new democratic government. Immediately after the war, Guatemala saw little change in the healthcare sector. However, starting in 1999, the health care system was improved with increased government spending and aid. Although this was a drastic improvement from the times of war, the system was still insufficient and did not come close to meeting all of the needs of the Guatemalan people.\n\nToday, the Guatemalan health care system is split into three separate divisions: the public, private nonprofit, and private for-profit sectors. Within the public sector, there is the Ministry of Health and Social Security (MOH), the Guatemalan Social Security Institute (IGSS), and the Military Health Service. This sector of the health care system formally covers about 88% of the population. The private sector, which accounts for about 12% of the population, includes many for-profit providers, non-profit entities, and traditional local providers. The public sector works to provide care through hospitals, health facilities, and various health centers, whereas the private sector allocates resources within private offices, clinics, and hospitals.\n\nVery few funds are allocated to health care within Guatemala. As a share of GDP, health care spending in Guatemala is one of the lowest in Central America (2.6 percent). The GDP expenditure shows that few funds are allocated to the health care system in Guatemala. In total, the Guatemalan government's expenditures on health were about $196 US dollars in 2010. This amount was significantly less than the total Central American average ($350) and the average Latin American and the Caribbean (LAC) expenditures ($672). The health care system requires more funds to improve the coverage and overall health care system in Guatemala.\n\nThe Peace Accords, which were signed in 1996, called for a change in health provision goals. In 1997, the MOH established a program called the Expansion of Coverage Program (PEC), which worked to improve the availability of health and nutrition services to young children and women in rural areas of Guatemala. As Pena explains, current MOH services do not cover the poor, rural population of Guatemala, making the PEC critical to the rural population. Ever since its creation, the PEC has expanded immensely, now covering about 54% of the health and nutrition needs of rural Guatemalans. The coverage program works with NGOs in the area to promote good health and nutrition to populations who lack sufficient health care. However, important accountability systems regarding transparency and progress were not installed, limiting the program's effectiveness. The services covered by the PEC include care for women and infants, illnesses and emergency care, and environmental care.\n\nThere is also an informal sector of healthcare that is often overlooked. Termed the \"Maya Mobile Clinic\" or the \"Other Public Health\", traveling salespeople (often men) are a medical resource for Guatemalans living in the highlands. These salespeople offer raw and natural ingredients to mainly indigenous populations and give talks about their health qualities. Maya Mobile Clinics act as a midpoint between the physical distance of the Guatemalan highlands and public clinic locations, and as a midpoint between the cultural gap that separates Maya medicinal norms and values from Guatemala's public health sector's medicinal norms and values.\n\nThere are many communicable diseases and conditions that threaten the livelihood of the Guatemalan people on a day-to-day basis. Infectious diseases are still the number one cause of death for people in developing countries, whereas in the developed world, infectious diseases are no longer a significant problem. Furthermore, in Guatemala, parasites, diabetes, and malnutrition are huge health problems. Diabetes threatens development in many rural Mayan communities within Guatemala. In order to attack this problem head-on, “health service efforts must be culturally appropriate and emphasize awareness, prevention, early detection, and universal treatment”. Also, malnutrition remains a huge problem among children and adults in Guatemala. Given the prevalence of poverty, many residents have limited access to quality nutrition, limited education, and higher rates of disease. Even though there have been improvements, Guatemala is still characterized by high infant and maternal morbidity and mortality rates, pervasive malnutrition, and high incidences of infectious diseases. Also, in Guatemala, the prevalence of Type 2 diabetes and obesity has risen.\n\nIn Guatemala, communicable diseases for which treatment exists are still one of the major causes of death. Wealthy, more industrialized developed nations have been able to eliminate communicable diseases due to an epidemiological transition, in which death rates due to degenerative diseases have surpassed those of communicable and infectious diseases. The opposite is apparent in Guatemala. The high mortality rate for infants is a direct result of communicable and infectious diseases. Similarly, the epidemiological profile of Guatemala shows that some of the most prevalent infectious diseases, like diarrhea and acute respiratory infections, are a direct result of poverty. In Guatemala, 56 percent of the population lives below the poverty line. Poverty levels are greatest in the indigenous communities of Guatemala, which account for about 81 percent of those living in poverty, and make up about 43 percent of Guatemala's total population. High levels of poverty make the population more vulnerable to communicable diseases, which is why government funding of health care is necessary for the rural areas of Guatemala.\n\nEven though Guatemala has improved its health care system substantially since the end of the Guatemalan Civil War, mortality rates for communicable diseases still show that considerable progress needs to be made to remove the burden of infectious diseases on the population. In a country like Guatemala, water is poor and frequently contaminated. In order to decrease common communicable diseases like diarrhea, tuberculosis, pneumonia, and respiratory disease, clean water and sanitation are necessary. With the health care system's provision of both clean water and food, the incidence of infectious and communicable diseases will decrease.\n\nParasites present one of the biggest threats to health in Guatemala. Many of the common parasites in developing countries like Guatemala are spread through contamination of both water and food. Some of the effects of parasites include intestinal obstructions, which can hinder the body from absorbing nutrients, lead to a loss of appetite, impair long term growth, induce vomiting, cause anemia and anorexia, and in severe cases, cause death. Symptoms can also include intense abdominal pain, loss of appetite, nausea, diarrhea, and fever.\n\nIt has been seen that the prevalence of parasites is significantly higher among younger children and those who are malnourished. Parasites are usually transferred through contaminated water, making them dangerous because they are able to induce malnutrition by consuming the body's nutrients, thus impeding a child's physical development. For school children who are infected with parasites, cognitive functioning can drastically decrease, directly impacting their education. School children who have been treated for parasites immediately perform significantly better in school settings. Parasite infections can also vary based on access to clean water and whether or not sewage disposal is present. The Millennium Development Goals discussed the importance of deworming to help meet the goals set by the United Nations. Parasites can have serious long-term consequences in that they directly affect development and health for decades after. However, inexpensive, single-dose medications exist that can fully treat these parasitic infections.\n\nDiabetes is a significant problem within the Guatemalan population. As a rising public health concern, diabetes largely threatens the indigenous population of Guatemala. Because this population frequently has limited access to the Guatemalan health care system, knowledge about the emergence of diabetes is also incredibly limited. Indigenous areas are particularly under-resourced with respect to doctors and overall health care programs.\n\nA risk factor for diabetes within the indigenous population is dietary change over time. Changes in indigenous diets were a result of structural and economic changes, which forced the rural population to resort to energy-dense foods that are extremely high in saturated fats and simple carbohydrates. These simple carbohydrates can be found throughout Guatemalan cuisine, especially corn, which is one of the staple foods of the Guatemalan diet. This in turn leads to the higher prevalence of Type 2 diabetes, because the entire population has added more fats and sugars into their diets.\n\nA large issue for the indigenous population and the greater Guatemalan population in general is access to medication. Medication used to treat diabetes is very expensive and would require the Guatemalan government to devote significant resources to provide medication for every diabetic. However, diabetes is a manageable disease, and can also be treated with frequent physical activity and a change in diet, focused on management and healthy choices.\n\nDue to farming conditions and yield pressures in Guatemala, many agricultural workers are at high risk of pesticide poisoning. People often handle pesticides without protective clothing or gear, soaking it in through their skin and inhaling it into their lungs. A large black market and lack of oversight over legal pesticide use in Guatemala also contributes to its rampant and unsafe use. Pesticide poisoning most likely disproportionately affects indigenous farm workers.\n\nOne aspect of the Guatemalan health care system is its focus on Mayan health. Because the Mayan population is so prevalent in Guatemala, it is necessary to consider their barriers to quality health care. Taking into account the language barriers, diet, and living conditions, the Mayan population suffers enormously when it comes to proper health care. The life expectancy for Mayans can be up to 10 or 15 years lower than other Guatemalans. Since the Civil War, the Mayan population generally resides in poverty stricken areas, and therefore has limited access to the healthcare that is available to the Ladinos, or non-indigenous population.\n\nIndigenous Guatemalan communities deal with medical pluralism, or the intersection of beliefs and uses regarding traditional and biomedical healthcare. Traditional Maya medical care involves plant medicine and ethnomedical practitioners who learn in one-on-one or self-taught settings. Western medical systems and the Guatemalan public health system have been criticized for not considering ethnomedical practices to be legitimate, and interest among indigenous Guatemalans in taking on ethnomedical apprenticeships has been declining, resulting in tension between practices.\n\nIn Guatemala, about 45% of the Ladino population lives in poverty, while about 91% of the indigenous population succumbs to extreme poverty levels. This large difference appears in other aspects of life as well, like family planning, susceptibility to disease, education level, and access to health care. Such inequalities can largely be attributed to a large language barrier between the indigenous population and the non-indigenous peoples. Generally, the indigenous people of Guatemala speak only a variety of local Mayan languages. In relation to health care, these language barriers can be significant. Most of the medical professionals that serve the indigenous communities are Ladino, and speak Spanish only. Communicating health related issues to a patient under these conditions becomes an obstacle, which in turn causes indigenous people to avoid health care centers altogether. The indigenous population is unable to communicate with the doctors directly, which is both difficult and embarrassing. Ishida et al. discovered that the combination of poverty and language barriers made indigenous women less likely to seek services from health care providers.\n\nThe Mayan diet is different from the diet of non-indigenous Guatemalans. Throughout their history, the Maya have used maize as a principal crop. Staple foods of the Mayan diet today are corn and beans. The better cash crops like greens, tomatoes, fruits, eggs, and poultry are mainly sold to Ladinos and are not purchased by Mayans. Therefore, Mayan nutrition is very poor because it includes little besides starches and protein. Corn has a significant amount of carbohydrates, which in turn increases blood sugar levels. This increase in blood sugar makes diabetes a very common disease within the Mayan population. Also, with this lack of crucial nutrients, malnutrition is very prominent in the indigenous population.\n\nThe Mayan people frequently live in rural villages of Guatemala, which are generally known to be impoverished areas. About 80% of indigenous Guatemalans live below the \"international poverty line.\" Very few Mayan families have the economic stability to devote money towards health care. With the high prices of medications and the poor quality of health posts, impoverished patients refuse to use or trust the westernized health care system. For centuries, the relationship between the Ladinos and the Mayans has been antagonistic. Throughout the period of the Guatemalan Civil War, Mayans were excluded from land and water resources as well as educational, health care, political, and economic resources. Even in today's modern age, the effects of exclusion and deprivation from the war are still felt my many indigenous Mayans. This directly affects health care because the Mayan population does trust Western medicine and hospitals. Similarly, the Ladino doctors that work in the health field make the indigenous people feel powerless and guarded instead of supported.\n\nMany indigenous Guatemalans survive on below-subsistence agriculture. Farms are not large enough to sustain large-scale subsistence farming, making the overall yield exceptionally low. Because of the limited amount of farmland, its unequal distribution, and the growing population, poverty continues to ravish the Mayan civilizations. The concrete living distance also plays a role in health care accessibility for indigenous population. More than likely, these rural villages where the Mayans reside are located close to an hour walk away from any health clinic or post. The inaccessibility of the clinics leads to fewer visits and more health complications in the indigenous population.\n\nGovernment run hospitals are located in the main cities of several provinces. Indigenous peoples' highland locality - often distant from main cities - makes travel to these hospitals expensive, further limiting access. Taking advantage of the importance of midwifery in many indigenous traditional medicinal systems, the Ministry of Public Health decided to better reach indigenous populations through midwife training programs in the 1980s. However, the quality, efficacy, and cultural sensitivity of these programs has been brought into question.\n\nFor women and children, the health discrepancies are very visible. In children, infant mortality and malnutrition are rampant. Severe health and nutritional deficiencies are associated with deaths of children under the age of 5. Similarly, physical and mental development can be severely impacted by malnutrition in children. On the other hand, women’s health focuses on preventable deaths related to pregnancy, delivery, and post-pregnancy complications. Most of the time, services that are provided for contraceptive health do not reach the at-risk population. At-risk women and infants frequently die because of their limited access to quality health care, as well as their perilous living conditions. Many programs have been implemented to try and incorporate all levels of reproductive health in order to improve care for these populations.\n\nIn Guatemala, infant mortality continues to be a big problem. As of 2015, it is estimated that Guatemala's infant mortality rate is 22.73 for every 1,000 live births. As mentioned, rural areas of Guatemala exhibit the highest levels of morbidity and infant mortality because health care in those areas is largely inaccessible. Generally, infant mortality rates are used as an indicator of general health levels in a particular country.\n\nInfants are more susceptible to infectious diseases and conditions like malaria, which can cause severe morbidity, and even death. For infants, physical growth is critical to proper and successful development. Therefore, if there are insufficient nutrients being provided to the infant during this period of growth and cell proliferation, the number of neurons will be permanently reduced. In Guatemala, this issue is particularly prominent. Nutrition and proper health care is crucial in early infant development in order to insure that these infants will thrive and grow into strong children. Therefore, the nutritional deficiencies, infectious diseases, and parasitic diseases directly lead to higher mortality rates for children under the age of 5 in Guatemala. These higher mortality rates are prominent in both rural and urban areas of Guatemala when diseases are present. However, these rates are significantly higher in rural areas where limited access to health care, high levels of illiteracy, poor sanitation, and nutritional deficiencies are factored into the rate.\n\nMalnutrition is a serious condition that threatens the health and well-being of many people in developing nations. In Guatemala, nutritional deficiencies have been shown to severely impact the growth and development of children both physically and mentally. Stunting and underweight are both common physical indicators for acute and chronic malnutrition in children. According to Gragnolati and Marini, over 44 percent of the Guatemalan child population is chronically malnourished. However, these numbers are even higher for indigenous populations of Guatemala (58 percent) in comparison to the non-indigenous population. Although the incidence rate of stunting has decreased in Guatemala, the rate of decline is minuscule compared to other countries in the LAC region.\n\nThe high incidence of malnutrition within indigenous populations is a direct result of poor water sanitation and limited access to clean water. According to the MOH, about 98% of the water sources in Guatemala are contaminated. Disease and malnutrition are highly correlated with one another; both are causes and consequences of each other. In order to improve the health system and reduce the prevalence of malnutrition, easy availability of safe drinking water, together with disease treatment and prevention, are critical for the survival of Guatemalan children. Improvement must be implemented at the community level, by renovating infrastructures in order to provide piped water and sanitary operations for the residents.\n\nOne consequence of malnutrition and undernourishment is the degradation of cognitive performance, which can be studied and observed through schoolchildren and their performance in an educational setting. This can generally be observed in poorer settings. In poverty stricken areas of Guatemala, inadequate nutrient intake can lead to higher disease rates, which can in turn expedite the poverty cycle. Breastfeeding is also critical for infants to obtain sufficient nutrients and antibodies. Malnutrition severely weakens children who are already weaker to begin with, making them more vulnerable to life-threatening illnesses. Similarly, civil conflict (from the Guatemalan Civil War period) has left the indigenous population with many barriers to combat malnutrition, which has only prevented positive outcomes of health within the population through social, political, and economic exclusion.\n\nReproductive health focuses on the health of infants as well as mothers. Guatemala is only beginning their transition into a more health-centered nation. The overall Guatemalan population is very young, which not only affects infant mortality rates, but significantly impacts both reproductive age and fertility rates. In Guatemala, the fertility rate is almost 5 children per mother, the highest in all of Latin America.\n\nWhen the reproductive age is young, there can be many catastrophic effects. The maternal mortality rate for younger mothers is much higher. Guatemala is the country with the highest rate of maternal death related to pregnancy and delivery. This high rate is the result of many different factors, but mainly, it is a consequence of the scarcity of health care services, increased prevalence of illnesses, and the marginalization of women. Similarly, with a younger reproductive age, the chances of young mothers acquiring illnesses and transferring contaminants to their infants is very high.\n\nMaternal health problems affect women throughout Guatemala, but are significantly more prevalent in poorer, more rural areas. Indigenous women frequently have unsafe living conditions, which makes them more susceptible to health related problems. This population has the highest fertility rates in Guatemala, as well as a significantly higher maternal mortality rate than the non-indigenous population. Very few births are attended by either doctors or nurses, making the indigenous population much more prone to complications related to pregnancy, delivery, or postpartum.\n\nIn Guatemala, knowledge and education about contraceptives and family planning is incredibly low, especially within the indigenous population. More education about the implications of reproduction can reduce population growth while simultaneously improving both maternal and infant health. Since the end of the Civil War, the indigenous population of Guatemala had turned to traditional practices for maternal deliveries because this group distrusted modern health care facilities and services provided by non-indigenous personnel. There is very little knowledge about health care services related to pregnancy and abortions. Abortions are illegal in Guatemala, and are only permitted if it will save the mother's life. The Guatemalan government is working to address maternal mortality by increasing public spending on health care to gain a greater understanding of \"comprehensive reproductive health.\"\n\nTypically, in Guatemala, the general population is poor and has little access to quality health care services. The indigenous population and the Ladinos generally use traditional and formal health practices respectively. In both of these practices, family planning is very different. Differences in economic and social influences determine contraceptive use, child immunizations, prenatal care, and childbirth or delivery.\n\nFor the two populations within Guatemala, there are many large disparities between family planning actions. Family planning services are as scarce as health care services in the rural areas of Guatemala. Indigenous people in Guatemala are more likely to have little to no education and are often living in poverty. High poverty and illiteracy rates directly correlate with lower rates of contraceptive use. This lower rate is both a result of limited contraceptive knowledge and also the negative social stigma behind contraceptives. Guatemala's high fertility rate is a result of poor family planning initiatives, which result in young pregnancies, large families with many children, shorter birth intervals, and deficient growth within children. Similarly, breastfeeding plays a huge role in family planning, both as a nutrient and antibody source for infants, as well as a way to inhibit immediate fertility (because of the absence of menstruation) and allow for greater birth spacing.\n\nFamily decisions about health care depend on many factors. Specific family dynamics, individual beliefs and decisions of the mother, and direct community influences are all aspects to take into consideration when looking at family choices. The Guatemalan government has worked to implement family education centers within its poorer populations. A family life education class provides information pertaining to sex education, as well as reproductive health.\n\nEducation is an aspect of health that is generally ignored by the Guatemalan health care system. Proper education on nutrition and contraceptives has proven to impact both education levels and survival. In children, proper nutrition has been shown to accelerate development, both mentally and physically. Also, there is a large association between maternal education and a lower mortality rate of infants as well as healthier habits while pregnant. Education can also reinforce preventative measures. There is a relationship between poverty and education, but there are many possibilities within Guatemala that will allow education to prosper and serve a larger community. The lack of health education is one reason why many children and adults, through simple illnesses and pregnancies, end up dying prematurely. Health education provides mothers with resources to handle health issues and gives them access to knowledgeable sources outside their specific communities.\n\nMany Guatemalans do not have enough knowledge about health care to make concrete health decisions and know the results of outcomes. Education is required in order to provide both indigenous and non-indigenous Guatemalans with the understanding to make personal health choices. The education of school children and quality nutrition status have both shown to affect adult education levels. With the implementation of nutrition interventions as children, these adults were more likely to be more educated than others in the population. Similarly, Desai and Soumya discovered that there was a great relationship between child health and maternal education; therefore, the greater the mother's education, the healthier the child.\n\nWithin the Mayan population of Guatemala, education is not as accessible. However, it has also been observed that the indigenous population does not utilize health care services as readily. Delgado et al. discovered that the indigenous mothers actually did have a significant affinity for health seeking behaviors. Specifically, mothers determined which health services to frequent based on the illness of their child. However, many mothers explained that they would \"normally not attend a medical service when their children presented the symptoms,\" for a variety of reasons including accessibility and dissatisfaction. Education and accessibility are required in order to expand health care into the more rural areas of Guatemala and implement health care planning techniques.\n\nPreventative measures, in the form of health care, work to improve the basic health services so that individuals can easily access them. Guatemala has shifted its focus onto preventative care, in order to serve the poorer communities that are more disadvantaged in health care. Especially in the field of Children and Women's Health, education on preventative measures can result in great health outcomes. In considering hygiene and sexually transmitted diseases, preventative education can alone hinder the onset of disease. Mothers are more likely to use health services, both as a preventative and medicinal tool, when they are educated.\n\nIn the field of education, knowledge about health outcomes is necessary, as well as poor health origins. The causes of illnesses are largely unknown or completely wrong. In considering the effects of hygiene on health, education is very limited. The indigenous population of Guatemala knows little about the transmission of disease or easy, hygienic techniques that can reduce severe health problems. Even with few years of education, women in the indigenous communities were more likely to understand and adopt different hygienic beliefs in order to prevent poor health outcomes. However, because of past experiences in which Ladino communities tried to assimilate into indigenous societies, the indigenous people of Guatemala resist the idea of adopting \"western\" or \"Ladino\" health behaviors. Therefore, the implementation of education into these communities would allow for increased preventative measures as well as overall health benefits.\n\nMany of the deaths that occur frequently in Guatemala are a result of preventable and treatable diseases. Different preventative measures including sanitation, hygiene, vaccines, and education work to improve the health outcomes for many people in developing countries. There is a large discrepancy between those who are receiving preventative care and those who are not. In Guatemala, doctors only treat 24% of indigenous people, whereas they treat almost double that amount for non-indigenous Guatemalans. This statistic shows that more money can be spent working to provide preventative care services to the indigenous population of Guatemala. Preventable diseases can be eliminated with the implementation of these services and with the influence of education.\n\n"}
{"id": "7890576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7890576", "title": "Himbasha", "text": "Himbasha\n\nHimbasha (); or Ambasha () is an Eritrean and Ethiopian celebration bread that is slightly sweet. It is often served at special occasions. It is prepared in a number of varieties; however, the most distinctive flavoring is ground cardamom seeds.\n\nThe dough is given a decorative touch before baking. The design varies in detail, but in general is given the shape of a wheel with indentations to create several spokes (see picture).\n\nCommon additions to the recipe include candied ginger or raisins, although plain varieties are common also.\n\n"}
{"id": "48248138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48248138", "title": "Infectious Disease (Notification) Act 1889", "text": "Infectious Disease (Notification) Act 1889\n\nThe Infectious Disease (Notification) Act first appeared on the UK national statute books in 1889. It was compulsory in London and optional in the rest of the country. It later became a mandatory law with the Infectious Diseases Notification (Extension) Act, 1899. These acts required householders and/or general practitioners to report cases of infectious disease to the local sanitary authority. The following diseases were covered by the acts: smallpox, cholera, diphtheria, membranous croup. erysipelas, scarlatina or scarlet fever, typhus fever, typhoid fever, enteric fever, relapsing fever, continued fever and puerperal fever. Householders or general practitioners who failed to notify a case of one of these diseases was liable to a fine of up to forty shillings.\n\nThe 1889 act came about after experiments in fifty provincial towns and cities that had adopted some form of infectious diseases notification through a local act of Parliament. These local laws were important forerunners of the national legislation, but they covered less than one-quarter of the country’s urban population and no rural sanitary authority had a local act in place in 1889. The 1889 act was widely taken up and by the time the mandatory 1899 act came into effect, notification reached almost all corners of the UK.\n\nFollowing receipt of a notification certificate, the local sanitary authority's Medical Officer of Health could pursue existing public health laws, such as the Public Health Act 1875, to isolate patients in hospital, disinfect property and belongings, suspend schooling, and temporarily close businesses.\n"}
{"id": "13264498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13264498", "title": "Jerudong Park Medical Centre", "text": "Jerudong Park Medical Centre\n\nJerudong Park Medical Centre (Abbreviation: ) is the major private hospital in Brunei Darussalam which mainly provides specialised healthcare services. It is located in Jerudong, some 20 kilometres from Bandar Seri Begawan. The hospital also houses Gleneagles JPMC.\n\nJerudong Park Medical Centre is situated not far from Jerudong Park, a well-known family recreational centre-cum-amusement park in Brunei. The hospital complex is located at the coast overlooking South China Sea. It is also close to BRIDEX International Conference Centre.\n\nJerudong Park Medical Centre primarily provides specialised outpatient and inpatient clinical services, among them dermatology, gastroenterology, histopathology, nephrology, occupational health, psychology, dental, obstetrics and gynaecology, and paediatrics. Surgical services are also available for cases such as of the ear, nose and throat (ENT); implantology; ophthalmology; plastic and reconstructive; orthopaedics; general, paediatrics and laparoscopic, and urology. There are also auxiliary services such as laboratory, diagnostic imaging and radiology.\n\nGleneagles JPMC is a dedicated centre within the hospital which provides healthcare services to cardiac patients. The centre was established on 15 July 2002 and began operational on 8 August 2002. Its establishment is a joint venture between the Government of Brunei Darussalam and Parkway Pantai Limited, a regional private healthcare groups based in Singapore. The latter owns and handles the operation of Gleneagles JPMC.\nJerudong Park Medical Centre is accredited by the Joint Commission International since 2004.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39395949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39395949", "title": "Kenneth Blaxter (animal nutritionist)", "text": "Kenneth Blaxter (animal nutritionist)\n\nSir Kenneth Lyon Blaxter FRS PRSE FIBiol (19 June 1919 – 18 April 1991) was an English animal nutritionist.\n\nBlaxter was born on 19 June 1919 in Sprowston, England and grew up in Norfolk. His father made handicrafts and his mother came from a family of farm workers. Blaxter studied at the City of Norwich School until 1936. He was bored in school and received poor grades. As a teenager, Blaxter spent his spare time at the Norfolk Agricultural Station, a short distance from the family home. Soon after, he enrolled in day classes in agriculture at the Norfolk County Council, winning the class prize for the highest mark. He also worked as a farmhand on a farm in Hoveton.\n\nBlaxter studied agriculture, biology and botany at the University of Reading in 1936, graduating in 1939.\n\nAfter graduating, Blaxter worked at the National Institute for Research in Dairying (NIRD), located in Shinfield. With the onset of World War II, Blaxter was conscripted and served with the 10th Field Regiment of the Royal Artillery from spring 1940 to the end of 1941, when he returned to NIRD. At this time, he began to write his Ph.D thesis, entitled \"The maintenance of the winter milk supply in wartime\"; he completed the thesis in 1944. Shortly thereafter, he requested to be seconded to the biochemistry department of the Ministry of Agriculture in Weybridge, where he conducted blood analysis and researched lead toxicity in ruminants. In 1946, Blaxter moved to Illinois to work with animal nutritionist Harold Mitchell at the University of Illinois.\n\nIn 1947, after returning to England, Blaxter applied for the headship of the Nutrition Department at the Hannah Dairy Research Institute in Ayr, Scotland and received the position in 1948. During his tenure at the Hannah Dairy Research Institute, Blaxter wrote over 200 papers, focusing primarily on the issues of energy metabolism and feed usage by ruminants. Blaxter also investigated nutritional diseases and magnesium deficiency in calves, the effect of temperature and other environmental effects on sheep, and ruminant digestion and feed intake.\n\nIn 1965, Blaxter was appointed director of the Rowett Research Institute in Aberdeen, Scotland. There, Blaxter and his team of researchers studied topics of importance to the Scottish farmer, including deer farming, llamas, human nutrition, feed evaluation, environmental stress and animal calorimetry. He also took an interest in agriculture and worldwide food policy, culminating in the publication of a book, \"Food, People and Resources\", in 1986.\n\nBlaxter retired from the Rowett Research Institute in 1982. From 1985 to 1991, Blaxter was a visiting professor in the University of Newcastle upon Tyne's Department of Agricultural Biochemistry and Nutrition. He also chaired a committee of the federal Department of the Environment and the Cabinet Committee on Individual Merit Promotion, a body that recognized and awarded candidates from various scientific fields. He died on 18 April 1991 of a brain tumour.\n\nBlaxter was named a Fellow of the Royal Society in 1967 and was knighted in 1977. From 1972 to 1975, he served as vice-president of the Royal Society of Edinburgh, and acted as its president from 1979 to 1982. He also served a three-year term in the 1980s as President of the Institute of Biology. In 1979, he received the Wolf Prize in Agriculture for his research into the nutritional requirements of ruminants. In 1992, he was posthumously awarded the for his lifetime contributions to nutrition science.\n\nBlaxter was also the recipient of honorary doctorates from Queen's University in Belfast, the Agricultural University in Norway, the University of Leeds, the University of Aberdeen and the University of Newcastle.\n\nBlaxter married sociologist Mildred Hall in 1957; they had three children together. Blaxter's cousin was Mary Lyon, the well-known British geneticist. Blaxter was also an avid amateur painter.\n\nBlaxter was influential in the fields of animal and human nutrition and animal husbandry. In Blaxter's memory, the British Society of Animal Science grants an annual scholarship, entitled the Kenneth Blaxter Award, to a deserving member of the Society in order to pursue short-term research in the animal sciences.\n\n"}
{"id": "29437784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29437784", "title": "Kurt Albert", "text": "Kurt Albert\n\nKurt Albert (January 28, 1954 – September 28, 2010) was a climber and photographer. He started climbing at the age of 14. Before he wholly committed his life to climbing in 1986 he was a mathematics and physics teacher.\n\nAt the age of seventeen he climbed the Walkerpfeiler in the Grandes Jorasses and one year later he climbed the north face of the Eiger. After a visit to the Saxon Switzerland climbing area in Saxony, Germany in 1973 he recognized the potential of free climbing (free climbing was practised in Saxony since the early 19th century). He started to free climb in his home climbing area, the Frankenjura. In the routes he would now try to ascend while free climbing, he would—in between attempts—paint a red 'X' on the rocks near pitons he did not need as holds or steps. Once he could place a red 'X' on all the pitons and hooks in the route, and was thus able to free climb the entire route, he would paint a red dot at the base of the route. From this comes the English term \"redpoint\", which is derived from the German \"Rotpunkt\", meaning \"red dot\" or \"red point\". In many ways this was the origin of the free climbing movement that led to the development of sport climbing some years later.\n\nAlbert was severely injured in a climbing accident on September 26, 2010. Albert fell while taking pictures at via ferrata \"Höhenglücksteig\" close to Hirschbach, Bavaria. Albert died two days later while hospitalised in Erlangen.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2433663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2433663", "title": "Leisure centre", "text": "Leisure centre\n\nA leisure centre in the UK, Ireland, Australia (also called aquatic centres) and Canada is a purpose built building or site, usually owned and operated by the city, borough council or municipal district council, where people go to keep fit or relax through using the facilities.\n\nFacilities may include a swimming pool (many with water slide), large sports hall, squash courts, cafeteria, licensed bar, fitness suite, aerobics studios, outdoor grass and/or artificial pitches for football (soccer), hockey etc., a solarium, sauna and/or steam room.\n\nLeisure centres Canada are staffed by leisure centre attendants employed by the local council. They carry out a range of tasks to help and supervise people using leisure centre facilities and act as swimming pool life guards, gym instructors and coaches offering advice, motivation and expertise to users. Many of its functions may overlap with that of a community centre.\n\nLeisure centres are also popular in Australia, where they are mostly privately operated but Government funded. In that country they are often also called Recreation Centres, or most commonly Aquatic Centres due to the swimming facilities being the most popular facility that is available. \n\nIn some areas of the UK and Canada (such as Calgary) these services are now operated by private companies on contract to the local authority.\n\nMost towns in the UK are now introducing leisure facilities for the local community.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48808564", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48808564", "title": "List of most-polluted cities by particulate matter concentration", "text": "List of most-polluted cities by particulate matter concentration\n\nThis list contains the top 500 cities by PM2.5 annual mean concentration measurement as documented by the World Health Organization covering the period from 2008 to 2017. The 2018 version of the WHO database contains results of ambient (outdoor) air pollution monitoring from almost 2700 towns and cities in 91 countries. Air quality in the database is represented by the annual mean concentration of particulate matter (PM10 and PM2.5, i.e. particles smaller than 10 or 2.5 micrometers, respectively).\n\ntools.russbot@tools-bastion-03:~$\n"}
{"id": "40025921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40025921", "title": "Liverpool Offtake Reservoir", "text": "Liverpool Offtake Reservoir\n\nLiverpool Offtake Reservoir (Liverpool Dam) is a small reservoir in Cecil Hills, New South Wales. Built along with the Upper Nepean Scheme it replaced the Liverpool Weir supply.\n\nBuilt in an old council quarry it was originally used to supply water to Liverpool. Various offtakes were constructed along the Sydney Water Supply Upper Canal for local district supply. It was also used to drain water from the nearby Upper Canal during maintenance.\n\nIn 1901 another reservoir at Mount Misery, Heckenberg was constructed between this dam and Liverpool.\n\nIn 1933 the dam was cleaned out and the wall upgraded to increase its volume from .\n"}
{"id": "5989657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5989657", "title": "Medical community of ancient Rome", "text": "Medical community of ancient Rome\n\nMedical community as used in this article refers to medical institutions and services offered to populations under the jurisdiction of the late Roman Republic and the Roman Empire.\n\nMedical services of the late Roman Republic and early Roman Empire were mainly imports from the civilization of Ancient Greece, at first through Greek-influenced Etruscan society and Greek colonies placed directly in Italy, and then through Greeks enslaved during the Roman conquest of Greece, Greeks invited to Rome, or Greek knowledge imparted to Roman citizens visiting or being educated in Greece. A perusal of the names of Roman physicians will show that the majority are wholly or partly Greek and that many of the physicians were of servile origin.\n\nThe servility stigma came from the accident of a more medically advanced society being conquered by a lesser. One of the cultural ironies of these circumstances is that free men sometimes found themselves in service to the enslaved professional or dignitary, or the power of the state was entrusted to foreigners who had been conquered in battle and were technically slaves. In Greek society, physicians tended to be regarded as noble. Asclepius in the Iliad is noble.\n\nA signal event in the Roman medical community was the construction of the first Aesculapium in the city of Rome, on Tiber Island. In 293 BCE some officials consulted the Sibylline Books concerning measures to be taken against the plague and were advised to bring Aesculapius from Epidaurus to Rome. The sacred serpent from Epidaurus was conferred ritually on the new temple, or, in some accounts, the serpent escaped from the ship and swam to the island. Baths have been found there as well as votive offerings (\"donaria\") in the shape of specific organs. In classical times the center covered the entire island and included a long-term recovery center. The emperor Claudius had a law passed granting freedom to slaves who had been sent to the institution for cure but were abandoned there. This law probably facilitated state disposition of the patients and recovery of the beds they occupied. The details are not available.\n\nIt was not the first time a temple had been constructed at Rome to ward off plague. The consul, Gnaeus Julius Mento, one of two for the year 431 BCE, dedicated a temple to Apollo medicus (\"the healer\"). There was also a temple to \"salus\" (\"health\") on the \"Mons Salutaris\", a spur of the Quirinal. There is no record that these earlier temples possessed the medical facilities associated with an Aesculapium; in that case, the later decision to bring them in presupposes a new understanding that scientific measures could be taken against plague. The memorable description of plague at Athens during the Peloponnesian War (430 BCE) by Thucydides does not mention any measures at all to relieve those stricken with it. The dying were allowed to accumulate at the wells, which they contaminated, and the deceased to pile up there. At Rome, Cicero criticized the worship of evil powers, such as \"Febris\" (\"Fever\"), \"Dea Mefitis\" (\"Malaria\"), \"Dea Angerona\" (\"Sore Throat\") and \"Dea Scabies\" (\"Rash\").\n\nThe medical art in early Rome was the responsibility of the \"pater familias\", or patriarch. The last known public advocate of this point of view were the railings of Marcus Cato against Greek physicians and his insistence on passing on home remedies to his son.\n\nThe importation of the Aesculapium established medicine in the public domain. There is no record of fees being collected for a stay at one of them, at Rome or elsewhere. The expense of an Aesculapium must have been defrayed in the same way as all temple expenses: individuals vowed to perform certain actions or contribute a certain amount if certain events happened, some of which were healings. Such a system amounts to gradated contributions by income, as the contributor could only vow what he could provide. The building of a temple and its facilities on the other hand was the responsibility of the magistrates. The funds came from the state treasury or from taxes.\n\nA second signal act marked the start of sponsorship of private medicine by the state as well. In the year 219 BCE (Lucius Aemilius Paullus and Marcus Livius Salinator were consuls), a \"vulnerarius\", or surgeon, Archagathus, visited Rome from the Peloponnesus and was asked to stay. The state conferred citizenship on him and purchased him a \"taberna\", or shop, near the \"compitium Acilii\" (a crossroads), which became the first \"officina medica\".\n\nThe doctor necessarily had many assistants. Some prepared and vended medicines and tended the herb garden. There were \"pharmacopolae\" (note the female ending), \"unguentarii\" and \"aromatarii\", all of which names are easily understood by the English reader. Others attended the doctor when required (the \"capsarii\"; they prepared and carried the doctor's \"capsa\", or bag.). Jerome Carcopino's study of occupational names in the Corpus Inscriptionum Latinarum turned up 51 \"medici\", 4 \"medicae\" (female doctors), an \"obstetrix\" (\"midwife\") and a \"nutrix\" (\"nurse\") in the city of Rome. These numbers, of course, are at best proportional to the true populations, which were many times greater.\n\nAt the bottom of the scale were the ubiquitous \"discentes\" (\"those learning\") or medical apprentices. Roman doctors of any stature combed the population for persons in any social setting who had an interest in and ability for practicing medicine. On the one hand the doctor used their services unremittingly. On the other they were treated like members of the family; i.e., they came to stay with the doctor and when they left they were themselves doctors. The best doctors were the former apprentices of the Aesculapia, who, in effect, served residencies there.\n\nThe Romans valued a state of \"valetudo\", \"salus\" or \"sanitas\". They began their correspondence with the salutation \"si vales valeo\", \"if you are well, I am\" and ended it with \"salve\", \"be healthy\". The Indo-European roots are *wal-, \"be strong\", a wholeness were to some degree perpetuated by right living. The Hippocratic oath obliges doctors to live rightly (setting an example). The first cause thought of when people got sick was that they did not live rightly. Vegetius' brief section on the health of a Roman legion states only that a legion can avoid disease by staying out of malarial swamps, working out regularly and living a healthy life.\n\nDespite their best efforts people from time to time did become \"aeger\", \"sick\". They languished, had nausea (words of Roman extraction) or \"fell\" (\"incidere\") \"in morbum\". They were vexed and dolorous. At that point they were in need of the \"medica res\", the men skilled in the \"ars medicus\", who would \"curare morbum\", \"have a care for the disease\", who went by the name of \"medicus\" or \"medens\". The root is *med-, \"measure\". The medicus prescribed \"medicina\" or \"regimina\" as measures against the disease.\n\nThe next step was to secure the \"cura\" of a \"medicus\". If the patient was too sick to move one sent for a \"clinicus\", who went to the \"clinum\" or couch of the patient. Of higher status were the \"chirurgii\" (which became the English word surgeon), from Greek \"cheir\" (hand) and \"ourgon\" (work). In addition were the eye doctor, \"ocularius\", the ear doctor, \"auricularius\", and the doctor of snakebites, the \"marsus\".\n\nThat the poor paid a minimal fee for the visit of a \"medicus\" is indicated by a wisecrack in Plautus: \"It was less than a nummus.\" Many anecdotes exist of doctors negotiating fees with wealthy patients and refusing to prescribe a remedy if agreement was not reached. Pliny says:\n\nThe fees charged were on a sliding scale according to assets. The physicians of the rich were themselves rich. For example, Antonius Musa treated Augustus' nervous symptoms with cold baths and drugs. He was not only set free but he became Augustus' physician. He received a salary of 300,000 sesterces. There is no evidence that he was other than a private physician; that is, he was not working for the Roman government.\n\nDoctors were generally exempt from prosecution for their mistakes. Some writers complain of legal murder. However, holding the powerful up to exorbitant fees ran the risk of retaliation. Pliny reports that the emperor Claudius fined a physician, Alcon, 180 million sesterces and exiled him to Gaul, but that on his return he made the money back in just a few years. Pliny does not say why the physician was exiled, but the blow against the man was struck on his pocketbook. He could make no such income in Gaul.\n\nThis immunity applied only to mistakes made in the treatment of free men. By chance a law existed at Rome, the Lex Aquilia, passed about 286 BCE, which allowed the owners of slaves and animals to seek remedies for damage to their property, either malicious or negligent. Litigants used this law to proceed against the negligence of medici, such as the performance of an operation on a slave by an untrained surgeon resulting in death or other damage.\n\nWhile encouraging and supporting the public and private practice of medicine, the Roman government tended to suppress organizations of \"medici\" in society. The constitution provided for the formation of occupational \"collegia\", or guilds. The consuls and the emperors treated these ambivalently. Sometimes they were permitted; more often they were made illegal and were suppressed. The medici formed collegia, which had their own centers, the \"Scholae Medicorum\", but they never amounted to a significant social force. They were regarded as subversive along with all the other collegia.\n\nDoctors were nevertheless influential. They liked to write. Compared to the number of books written, not many have survived; for example, Tiberius Claudius Menecrates composed 150 medical works, of which only a few fragments remain. Some that did remain almost in entirety are the works of Galen, Celsus, Hippocrates and the herbal expert, Pedanius Dioscorides who wrote the 5-volume \"De Materia Medica\". The \"Natural History\" of Pliny the Elder became a paradigm for all subsequent works like it and gave its name to the topic, although Pliny was not himself an observer of the natural world like Aristotle or Theophrastus, whose \"Enquiry into Plants\" included a book on their medicinal uses.\n\nThe state of the military medical corps before Augustus is unclear. Corpsmen certainly existed at least for the administration of first aid and were enlisted soldiers rather than civilians. The commander of the legion was held responsible for removing the wounded from the field and insuring that they got sufficient care and time to recover. He could quarter troops in private domiciles if he thought necessary. Authors who have written of Roman military activities before Augustus, such as Livy, mention that wounded troops retired to population centers to recover.\n\nThe army of the early empire was sharply and qualitatively different. Augustus defined a permanent professional army by setting the enlistment at 16 years (with an additional 4 for reserve obligations), and establishing a special military fund, the \"aerarium militare\", imposing a 5% inheritance tax and 1% auction sales tax to pay for it. From it came bonus payments to retiring soldiers amounting to several years' salary. It could also have been used to guarantee regular pay. Previously legions had to rely on booty.\n\nIf military careers were now possible, so were careers for military specialists, such as \"medici\". Under Augustus for the first time occupational names of officers and functions began to appear in inscriptions. The \"valetudinaria\", or military versions of the \"aesculapia\" (the names mean the same thing) became features of permanent camps. Caches of surgical instruments have been found in some of them. From this indirect evidence it is possible to conclude to the formation of an otherwise unknown permanent medical corps.\n\nIn the early empire one finds \"milites medici\" who were \"immunes\" (\"exempt\") from other duties. Some were staff of the hospital, which Pseudo-Hyginus mentions in \"De Munitionibus Castrorum\" as being set apart from other buildings so that the patients can rest. The hospital administrator was an \"optio valetudinarii\". The orderlies aren't generally mentioned, but they must have existed, as the patients needed care and the doctors had more important duties. Perhaps they were servile or civilians, not worth mentioning. There were some \"noscomi\", male nurses not in the army. Or, they could have been the \"milites medici\". The latter term might be any military medic or it might be orderlies detailed from the legion. There were also \"medici castrorum\". Not enough information survives in the sources to say for certain what distinctions existed, if any.\n\nThe army of Augustus featured a standardized officer corps, described by Vegetius. Among them were the \"Ordinarii\", the officers of an \"Ordo\" or rank. In an \"acies triplex\" there were three such \"ordines\", the centuries (companies) of which were commanded by centurions. The \"Ordinarii\" were therefore of the rank of a centurion but did not necessarily command one if they were staff.\n\nThe term \"medici ordinarii\" in the inscriptions must refer to the lowest ranking military physicians. During his reign, Augustus finally conferred the \"dignitas equestris\", or social rank of knight, on all physicians, public or private. They were then full citizens (in case there were any Hellenic questions) and could wear the rings of knights. In the army there was at least one other rank of physician, the \"medicus duplicarius\", \"medic at double pay\", and, as the legion had \"milites sesquiplicarii\", \"soldiers at 1.5 pay\", perhaps the medics had that pay grade as well.\n\nAugustan posts were named according to a formula containing the name of the rank and the unit commanded in the genitive case; e.g., the commander of a legion, who was a legate; that is, an officer appointed by the emperor, was the \"legatus legionis\", \"the legate of the legion.\" Those posts worked pretty much as today; a man on his way up the \"cursus honorum\" (\"ladder of offices\", roughly) would command a legion for a certain term and then move on.\n\nThe posts of \"medicus legionis\" and a \"medicus cohortis\" were most likely to be commanders of the \"medici\" of the legion and its cohorts. They were all under the \"praetor\" or camp commander, who might be the \"legatus\" but more often was under the \"legatus\" himself. There was, then, a medical corps associated with each camp. The cavalry \"alae\" (\"wings\") and the larger ships all had their medical officers, the \"medici alarum\" and the \"medici triremis\" respectively.\n\nAs far as can be determined, the medical corps in battle worked as follows. Trajan's Column depicts medics on the battlefield bandaging soldiers. They were located just behind the standards; i.e., near the field headquarters. This must have been a field aid station, not necessarily the first, as the soldiers or corpsmen among the soldiers would have administered first aid before carrying their wounded comrades to the station. Some soldiers were designated to ride along the line on a horse picking up the wounded. They were paid by the number of men they rescued. Bandaging was performed by \"capsarii\", who carried bandages (\"fascia\") in their \"capsae\", or bags.\n\nFrom the aid station the wounded went by horse-drawn ambulance to other locations, ultimately to the camp hospitals in the area. There they were seen by the \"medici vulnerarii\", or surgeons, the main type of military doctor. They were given a bed in the hospital if they needed it and one was available. The larger hospitals could administer 400-500 beds. If these were insufficient the camp commander probably utilized civilian facilities in the region or quartered them in the \"vici\", \"villages\", as in the republic.\n\nA base hospital was quadrangular with barracks-like wards surrounding a central courtyard. On the outside of the quadrangle were private rooms for the patients. Although unacquainted with bacteria, Roman medical doctors knew about contagion and did their best to prevent it. Rooms were isolated, running water carried the waste away, and the drinking and washing water was tapped up the slope from the latrines.\n\nWithin the hospital were operating rooms, kitchens, baths, a dispensary, latrines, a mortuary and herb gardens, as doctors relied heavily on herbs for drugs. The \"medici\" could treat any wound received in battle, as long as the patient was alive. They operated or otherwise treated with scalpels, hooks, levers, drills, probes, forceps, catheters and arrow-extractors on patients anesthetized with morphine (opium poppy extract) and scopolamine (henbane extract). Instruments were boiled before use. Wounds were washed in vinegar and stitched. Broken bones were placed in traction. There is, however, evidence of wider concerns. A vaginal speculum suggests gynecology was practiced, and an anal speculum implies knowledge that the size and condition of internal organs accessible through the orifices was an indication of health. They could extract eye cataracts with a special needle. Operating room amphitheaters indicate that medical education was ongoing. Many have proposed that the knowledge and practices of the \"medici\" were not exceeded until the 20th century CE.\n\nBy the late empire the state had taken more of a hand in regulating medicine. The law codes of the 4th century CE, such as the Codex Theodosianus, paint a picture of a medical system enforced by the laws and the state apparatus. At the top was the equivalent of a surgeon general of the empire. He was by law a noble, a \"dux\" (duke) or a \"vicarius\" (vicar) of the emperor. He held the title of \"comes archiatorum\", \"count of the chief healers.\" The Greek word \"iatros\", \"healer\", was higher-status than the Latin \"medicus\".\n\nUnder the \"comes\" were a number of officials called the \"archiatri\", or more popularly the \"protomedici\", \"supra medicos\", \"domini medicorum\" or \"superpositi medicorum\". They were paid by the state. It was their function to supervise all the \"medici\" in their districts; i.e., they were the chief medical examiners. Their families were exempt from taxes. They could not be prosecuted nor could troops be quartered in their homes.\n\nThe archiatri were divided into two groups:\n\nThe \"archiatri\" settled all medical disputes. Rome had 14 of them; the number in other communities varied from 5 to 10 depending on the population.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2950834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2950834", "title": "Mission Sucre", "text": "Mission Sucre\n\nMission Sucre (launched in late 2003) is one the Bolivarian Missions (a series of anti-poverty and social welfare programs) implemented by former Venezuelan president Hugo Chávez. The program provides free and ongoing higher (college and graduate level) education to the two million adult Venezuelans.\n\nMission Sucre was originally referred to as \"El Plan Extraordinario Mariscal Antonio José de Sucre\", shortened as \"Misión Sucre\". Named after the 18th century independence leader Antonio José de Sucre, Mission Sucre establishes as a strategy the mass education and graduation of university professionals in three years, as opposed to the traditionally mandated five or more years. The mission is thus an attempt to popularize, reform, and expand Venezuelan higher education beyond its traditional role of educating the children of a proportion of Venezuelans that can pay for collateral costs involved while studying in a college or university, due to uneven geographically distributed high education institutes (transportation expenses, housing). The program is thus geared especially towards economically excluded high school students and the poorest and most marginalized segments of society, providing an opportunity for all people desiring a higher education.\n\nIn this mission, certain matters and subjects, such as foreign languages, are mostly left out of the curriculum. The program functions mostly at the margins of the Venezuelan tertiary education system, although several key institutions, such as Simon Bolivar University, have endorsed the program. For example, thousands of non-traditional, mostly low income students are currently undergoing training to become licensed physicians in a unique and accelerated curriculum.\n\nMission Sucre imparts tertiary education; other educational missions include Mission Robinson (for instructing the illiterate) and Mission Ribas (for obtaining secondary studies, classes, and graduation certificates).\n\nThe objectives of Mission Sucre are officially stated as follows: 'To harness institutional synergy and community participation to guarantee access to university education for all undergraduates and to transform the condition of those excluded from the subsystem of higher education. To combine a vision of social justice with the strategic character of higher education for sustainable all-round human development, national sovereignty and the construction of a democratic and participatory society, for which purpose it is indispensable to guarantee the participation of the whole society in the making, transformation, diffusion and creative exploitation of knowledge and deeds.'\n\nIn the last decades of the 20th century, the Venezuelan government prior to the Chávez administration was steadily renouncing its support in areas involving education; specifically, it decreased support for tertiary education for the poor.\n\nIn fact, government funding and investment in higher education in Venezuela between 1989 and 1998 saw a marked downward trend. Chávez became president in 1999. The trend marked the government's desire to reduce resources and state support for education while furthering the project of privatization of higher education, as per the doctrines of the Washington Consensus and neoliberalism.\n\nThis brought consequences such as a large accumulated \"social debt\" (the sum tabulation of governmental neglect of a given area, such as the total of all funds that could have been spent on education, but instead were spent elsewhere), because the number of university matriculations stagnated, resulting in the exclusion of students originating from Venezuela's poorest sectors. Numerous studies agree that entrance to higher education predisposes students from any background to eventually earn greater incomes, both of the population of the cities and to students originating from elite private schools. On a par with this phenomenon, the tertiary education turning out official governmental managers reduced its participation in the education of private (corporate) management. From 1999, the National Government has dedicated efforts to strengthen the Venezuelan educational system, for which it has been indispensable to rescue the initiative of the State as a guarantor of high quality educational opportunities for all. With respect to the access to higher education, the National Government has achieved an expansion in matriculations to the Institutes and Schools and in good part to the Experimental National Universities, in a joint work with the authorities and the established communities of these institutions.\n\nIn addition, starting from the beginning of Chávez's presidential mandate in 1999, five new universities have been founded. These universities are: Experimental National University of Yaracuy (created by decree in the government of Rafael Caldera and opened under the Chávez presidency); Maritime University of the Caribbean; National Experimental University of the Armed Forces (\"UNEFA\"); Experimental National University of South of the Lake (that is, south of Lake Maracaibo) and the Bolivarian University of Venezuela. Also, four new University Institutes of Technology have been created; these are: the IUT of Bolívar State, the IUT of Apure State, the IUT of Barinas State and the IUT in la Fría Táchira State.\n\nThese institutions give new opportunities for study for the enormous number of college graduates who return to lower levels of education, and in addition they respond to the necessity to transform the system of tertiary education, in terms of geographic distribution, based on the construction of the Territorial Balance designed in the manner of the Economic and Social Plan of Development 2001–2007.\n\nNevertheless, this effort remains far short of meeting overall demand, such is the extent of the social debt accumulated by previous administrations' neglect of popularized higher education. There are around 500,000 bachelor's degree holders who remain excluded from professional tertiary education.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19832592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19832592", "title": "Muktar A. Gadanya", "text": "Muktar A. Gadanya\n\nDr. Muktar A. Gadanya is the youngest recipient of National Honour in Nigeria (Member of the Order of the Federal Republic, MFR) in 2007. \n\nHe has initiated a campaign to harness the goodwill of the Nigerian youth for a successful Umaru Musa Yar'Adua presidency.\n\nHe is recipient of several other prizes, and is currently a Consultant Public Health Physician with the Department of Public Health, Aminu Kano Teaching Hospital, Nigeria.\n\nHe was among the people recommended for meeting with Stephen Hawking, who was in quest for an \"African Einstein\".\n"}
{"id": "3423517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3423517", "title": "Odontoblast process", "text": "Odontoblast process\n\nAn odontoblast process (also called Tomes' fibers) is an extension of a cell called an odontoblast, which forms dentin in a tooth. The odontoblast process, also called Tomes fiber, is located in dentinal tubules. It forms during dentinogenesis and results from a part of the odontoblast staying in its location as the main body of the odontoblast moves toward the center of the tooth's pulp. The odontoblast process causes the secretion of hydroxyapatite crystals and mineralization of the matrix secreted by the odontoblasts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58693682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58693682", "title": "One-armed versus one-legged cricket", "text": "One-armed versus one-legged cricket\n\nOne-armed versus one-legged is a form of cricket in which one team has cricketers with only one arm while the members of the other team only have one leg.\n\nThere have been several matches of this sort, held for the annual benefit of the Greenwich pensioners – sailors pensioned off from the Royal Navy and resident at the Royal Hospital for Seamen at Greenwich. These sailors often lost limbs during naval service in the 18th century and so the teams were drawn from the ranks of the pensioners. In 1861, Charles Dickens reported a civilian match at Peckham Rye in his magazine, \"All the Year Round\".\n\nIn 1766, two teams of Greenwich pensioners played a match at Blackheath. The one-armed team beat the one-legged team quite handily.\n\nTwo teams of Greenwich pensioners played at Aram's New Ground in Walworth for a prize of a thousand guineas. The match was advertised and so there was a large crowd of spectators. The teams arrived in three stagecoaches at 9 in the morning and play started at 10. The one-legged team batted first, scoring 93 runs in that innings. The one-armed team scored 42 runs in their first innings but there had been a great commotion while they were batting as a press of would-be spectators broke down a gate and some fencing to get in. Some climbed on top of a stable which collapsed so they were bruised. The one-legged team batted again and scored sixty more runs for the loss of six wickets. The game finished that evening with the one-legged team winning by 153 runs to 42. There was a rematch on the following Wednesday and the one-legged team won again by 103 runs. The spectacle then concluded with a 100-yard dash in which the one-legged team raced for a prize pool of 20 guineas.\n\nTwo teams of Greenwich pensioners played at Hall's ground in Camberwell.\n\nTwo teams of Greenwich pensioners played at a ground formerly part of Lewisham Priory. The match was organised by Messrs Ingersoll and Stanton who managed to attract two thousand, four hundred spectators who were attracted by the novelty of the event. The game was played over two days and the teams were well-provisioned throughout, being given a hearty lunch before play and dinners of roast beef and lamb with plenty of strong ale at the Bull Inn. A band provided music for the occasion and the cricket players were additionally rewarded with a glass of grog and a fee of ten shillings. The one-legged men had difficulty connecting with the wide bowling, often being got out as they span around like a top. The one-armed team was the betting favourite and won the match, scoring 50 runs in their first innings and 41 in the second. The score of the one-legged team was 32 and 44, making the result 91 to 76 in favour of the one-armed team.\n\nCharles Dickens reported a match in his magazine, \"All the Year Round\", having seen an advertisement in the window of a tobacconist. It was held at Peckham Rye in the grounds of the Rosemary Branch tavern, which hosted many sporting events and pastimes. The match was for the benefit of one of the one-armed men and the players were mostly locals but one was a well-known musical barber and dancer from Essex, who bowled for the one-legged team. Some spectators sat on benches but Dickens sat on the roller which was used to level the pitch. He described the spectacle as \"painfully wonderful and ludicrously horrible\":After much energetic play and incident, the one-armed team won by 14 runs.\n\nThere was a match in Manchester where a player nicknamed \"No-Legs\" bowled for one team.\n\n"}
{"id": "39466243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39466243", "title": "Outline of cuisines", "text": "Outline of cuisines\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to cuisines:\n\nCuisine – specific set of cooking traditions and practices, often associated with a specific culture. It is frequently named after the region or place where its underlining culture is present. A cuisine is primarily influenced by the ingredients that are available locally or through trade. Religious food laws can also exercise a strong influence on culinary practices.\n\n\n\nMeals   (outline) – cuisine is generally served in the form of a meal. A meal is an eating occasion that takes place at a certain time and includes specific, prepared food, or the food eaten on that occasion. The names used for specific meals in English vary greatly, depending on the speaker's culture, the time of day, or the size of the meal. Meals are composed of one or more courses, which in turn are composed of one or more dishes.\n\nMeal structure varies by culture. Here are some examples:\n\n\nList of historical cuisines\n\n"}
{"id": "42569373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42569373", "title": "Packers and Stockyards Act, Section 409", "text": "Packers and Stockyards Act, Section 409\n\nSection 409 of the Packers and Stockyards Act regulates that meatpackers pay promptly for livestock that they purchase.\n\nIt requires that any meatpacker or dealer buying livestock to pay up in full to the seller before the end of the next business day.\n\n409(b) states that the purchaser is exempt from this requirement if the parties have other payment agreements in writing.\n\nThe law was passed in 1921 as part of the Packers and Stockyards Act (7 U.S.C. §§ 181-229b; P&S Act) which was passed in order to \"regulate interstate and foreign commerce in live stock, live-stock produce, dairy products, poultry, poultry products, and eggs, and for other purposes.\"\n\nA dealer who violates the law could be assessed a fine not exceeding 32,000 dollars for each violation. When determining the amount of the violation, the secretary should consider the gravity of the offence.\n\nThe only time experts remember that a meatpacker was criminally charged for violating the law, was in 2010 when Sholom Rubashkin the CEO of agriprocessors was charged with failing to pay 31 cattle suppliers within 24 hours. Rubashkin at times paid as much as 11 days late causing a loss of $3,800.51 of potential interest. Federal Judge Linda R. Reade added 4 years in prison for this violation alone.\n"}
{"id": "22915889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22915889", "title": "Palace of the Inquisition", "text": "Palace of the Inquisition\n\nThe Palace of the Inquisition stands on the corner of República de Brasil and República de Venezuela streets in Mexico City, Mexico. While neither side of the building faces the Santo Domingo Plaza, the entrance does, as it is placed at the corner, which is canted to allow it to face in that direction. Its long association with the Inquisition, which ended during the Mexican War of Independence, made it difficult to convert to other purposes. However, it eventually became the School of Medicine for the reconstructed National University (now the National Autonomous University of Mexico (UNAM)). When UNAM moved to the Ciudad Universitaria in the 1950s, it retained ownership of this building, eventually converting the structure in what is today the Museum of Mexican Medicine.\n\nFrom nearly the beginning of the colonial period until the Mexican War of Independence, this spot has been the headquarters of the Inquisition in the colony of New Spain. While the Tribunal of the Holy Inquisition was not fully established here until 1571, the first cleric with inquisitorial duties was Martin de Valencia, who came to the colony in 1524. The Dominicans, in whom the papacy had invested Inquisition duties, arrived in 1526 and proceeded to build a monastery in the area occupied by both the current Palace and the Church of Santo Domingo. The first official Inquisitor for the colony, Pedro Moya de Contreras, worked in the section of the monastery where the later, 18th century Palace would be built.\n\nThe Inquisition was officially established here due to a 1566 conspiracy led by Martin Cortes, son of Hernán Cortés, threatened to make the new colony independent of Spain. The plot was denounced by Baltazar de Aguilar Cervantes and Inquisition trials of various Creoles began. The accused were subject to torture and harsh sentences, especially when before a magistrate by the name of Muñoz. The first victims of this series of trials were the brothers Alonso and Gil Gonzalez de Alvila Alvarado. Despite having the sympathy of the local citizens and of the chroniclers, both brothers were convicted. Their punishment was to be decapitated, and their house, located on part of the site of the Templo Mayor, was razed to the ground, and the site sown with salt\n\nThe Inquisition here heard a number of other famous cases during its time, including the prosecution of the Carbajal family for reversion to Judaism, and the case of Martin Villavicencio, alias Martin Garatuza, which would inspire one of the best-known 19th century Mexican novels, Vicente Riva Palacio's \"Martín Gartuza\". Servando Teresa de Mier spent time in the jail here, and this court sentenced Miguel Hidalgo to defrocking and excommunication before his 1811 execution. Soon after, in 1820, the Inquisition was officially disbanded in Mexico.\n\nThe building that stands at the site now was built between 1732 and 1736 by Pedro de Arrieta, who also worked on a number of other significant buildings in the city, including the Metropolitan Cathedral and La Profesa Church. Even though Arrieta was famous for his work, he died broke shortly after the completion of the Palace of the Inquisition, for which he received a daily wage of two pesos. \n\nOriginally Arrieta constructed a two-story building, with a third floor added in the 19th century. As the headquarters of the Inquisition, this building had hearing rooms, judges chambers, a secret chamber, a jail and accommodations for two inquisitors. The Palace was popularly known as the \"Casa Chata\" or \"Squat-faced House.\" This referred to southwest corner, which faces Santo Domingo plaza that is seemingly cut off or pushed in. The Palace jail was known as \"Of Perpetuity,\" since few left soon after being confined.\n\nAfter the end of the Inquisition, in 1838, it was put up for sale by public auction, but no one offered the minimum price. It was finally purchased by the archbishopric. Later it served as lottery offices, a primary school and a military barracks. In 1854, it was sold to the School of Medicine, which at the time was offering classes in professors' homes. After the purchase, a number of changes were made, and a boarding school created here. Eventually, it would become the school of medicine and nursing of the National University (today's UNAM) In 1873, in despair over an unrequited love, romantic poet Manuel Acuña committed suicide by poison in a room here. In 1879, after modification, the old chapel became the Academy of Medicine and a third floor was added, which resulted in the removal of the crest which held the coat-of-arms of the Inquisition.\n\nWhen all the faculties of UNAM, including the School of Medicine, moved to the Ciudad Universitaria in the 1950s, this Palace was is such poor shape that a number of its arches were in danger of crashing to the ground. Restoration work commenced shortly afterwards and was completed in 1980. In 1982, the building that once was the prison was reintegrated into the main complex and since then has been used as a theater and to accommodate the lectures of visiting professors.\n\nToday the building still belongs to UNAM and functions as the Museum of Medicine. This museum was inaugurated on 22 December 1980, and designed as a way to preserve the history of medicine in Mexico as well as promote the values associated with this field. It was also considered to be a way to conserve one of the properties that UNAM still holds in the historic downtown area. The museum has 24 rooms that cover the history of medicine in this country from pre-Hispanic times to the 20th century. Among its collections are a room devoted to indigenous herbal medicine, various rooms devoted to old medical equipment and machines, a room about human development and a collection of wax figures used for the teaching of disease pathologies.\n\nLike many other buildings in the historic downtown, the facade is covered in \"tezontle\" (a blood-red porous volcanic stone), with windows and doors framed with \"chiluca\" (a grayish-white stone), but the building has two main notable features. This first is that its main portal is located at the southwest corner, which is \"cut off\" in order to face Santo Domingo Plaza. Arrieta came up with the idea, an innovation in the Viceroyalty of Nueva España. With this design, not only would the building face the plaza, its two side streets would lead to its door. Despite the fact that this very feature would earn the Palace the nickname of \"squat-faced,\" his idea was initially declared innovative and beautiful. The other feature is the patio. The arches on the four corners do not rest on columns, but seem to hang from the ceiling. In fact, they are crossed arches that are supported by pillars attached to the walls and the first columns on each side.\n"}
{"id": "19248790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19248790", "title": "Patient lift", "text": "Patient lift\n\nA patient lift (patient hoist, jack hoist, hydraulic lift) may be either a sling lift or sit-to-stand lift. This is an assistive device that allows patients in hospitals and nursing homes and people receiving home health care to be transferred between a bed and a chair or other similar resting places, by the use of electrical or hydraulic power. Sling lifts are used for patients whose mobility is limited. Sling lifts are mobile (or floor) lifts or overhead lifts (suspended from ceiling, wall-mounted or overhead tracks).\n\nThe sling lift has several advantages. It allows heavy patients to be transferred while decreasing stress on caregivers while also reducing the number of nursing staff required to move patients. It also reduces the chance of orthopedic injury from lifting patients. \n\nAnother kind of sling lift, which is called a ceiling lift, can be permanently installed on the ceiling of a room in order to save space.\n\nMistakes using patient lifts may result in serious injury and some injuries that have been caused by improper use or malfunction of sling lifts have led to civil lawsuits.\n\n"}
{"id": "920218", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=920218", "title": "Pharmaceutics", "text": "Pharmaceutics\n\nPharmaceutics is the discipline of pharmacy that deals with the process of turning a new chemical entity (NCE) or old drugs into a medication to be used safely and effectively by patients. It is also called the science of dosage form design. There are many chemicals with pharmacological properties, but need special measures to help them achieve therapeutically relevant amounts at their sites of action. Pharmaceutics helps relate the formulation of drugs to their delivery and disposition in the body.\nPharmaceutics deals with the formulation of a pure drug substance into a dosage form.\nBranches of pharmaceutics include:\nPure drug substances are usually white crystalline or amorphous powders. Historically before the advent of medicine as a science it was common for pharmacists to dispense drugs \"as is\", most drugs today are administered as parts of a dosage form. The clinical performance of drugs depends on their form of presentation to the patient.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55882601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55882601", "title": "Proceduralist", "text": "Proceduralist\n\nProceduralist is a physician, usually a specialist or subspecialist who performs different diagnostic or therapeutic procedures.\n"}
{"id": "25470653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25470653", "title": "Roman Catholic Hospital", "text": "Roman Catholic Hospital\n\nThe Roman Catholic Hospital is a private hospital in Windhoek, Namibia run by the Roman Catholic Church. Founded in 1907 by the Benedictine Missionary Sisters of Tutzing, the Roman Catholic Hospital had 87 beds in 2007. \n"}
{"id": "44542168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44542168", "title": "Sheikh Sayera Khatun Medical College", "text": "Sheikh Sayera Khatun Medical College\n\nSheikh Sayera Khatun Medical College () is a government medical college in Bangladesh, established in 2011. It is located in Gopalganj. The college is affiliated with Dhaka University as a constituent college.\n\nSheikh Sayera Khatun Medical College was named after Sheikh Sayera Khatun, mother of Bangabandhu Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, the \"Father of the Nation\", and grandmother of Prime Minister Sheik Hasina.\n\nSheikh Sayera Khatun Medical College began with only 50 students and few infrastructure facilities. The first step in its creation and expansion was the training of undergraduate students.\n\nIn 2014, the Directorate General of Health Services (DGHS) was reportedly unable to attract applicants for lectureships at the college in the basic subjects of anatomy, biochemistry, and physiology. As a stop gap measure, the college borrowed teachers from other medical schools in order to keep classes running.\n\nEvery year, after passing their Higher Secondary School Certificate examinations, nearly 90,000 applicants from all over the country sit for the medical college admission test. The top 3000 students get the opportunity to study at the Sheikh Sayera Khatun Medical College.\n\n"}
{"id": "3428815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3428815", "title": "South African Democratic Nurses' Union", "text": "South African Democratic Nurses' Union\n\nThe South African Democratic Nurses' Union (SADNU) is a trade union in South Africa.\n\nSADNU is an affiliate of the Congress of South African Trade Unions (COSATU).\n"}
{"id": "6730935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6730935", "title": "St John New Zealand", "text": "St John New Zealand\n\nSt John New Zealand (also often referred to as St John Ambulance of New Zealand) is a charitable organisation providing healthcare services to the New Zealand public. The organisation provides ambulance services throughout New Zealand, and also plays an increasing role in meeting the broader health needs of New Zealand communities through a number of health services and products.\n\nSt John services include emergency and non-emergency ambulance treatment and transport, event medical services, first aid training, the sale of first aid kits and supplies, programmes offering non-clinical support for patients and their family and friends, medical alarms, caring callers who phone to check on someone’s well-being and health shuttles to help people with impaired mobility attend essential appointments.\n\nSt John provides ambulance services for approximately 90% of New Zealand’s population. The only area where the organisation does not provide emergency ambulance services is the Greater Wellington region (specifically the areas of the Capital and Coast, Hutt Valley, and Wairarapa DHBs), where Wellington Free Ambulance is the provider. \nSt John treated or transported 469,850 patients in the year ending 30 June 2017, attending more than 389,350 emergency incidents. The 655 ambulances or operational vehicles, based at 205 stations, covered more than 18 million kilometres in the same time. \n\nThe St John Ambulance Service comprises:\n\nWhen a person dials 111 for an ambulance in New Zealand, the call goes to one of three Emergency Ambulance Control Centres (EACCs) located in Auckland, Wellington and Christchurch. St John owns and runs the Ambulance Communication Centres in Auckland and Christchurch. The Wellington Ambulance Control Centre is run in a joint venture with Wellington Free Ambulance. Dispatchers at the centres have medical knowledge and are trained to dispatch and coordinate all land, water and air ambulance services.\n\nIn addition to ambulance services, St John provide first aid training courses, kits and supplies, automated external defibrillators (AEDs) and first aid smart phone applications.\n\nSt John offers various levels of first aid training ranging from basic training courses for the general public, to courses which help businesses meet the requirements of the Health and Safety in Employment Act, to advanced resuscitation training for health professionals. St John also offers specialised courses such as child, sports, electrical workers, outdoor and maritime first aid training.\n\nSt John is registered with the New Zealand Qualifications Authority(NZQA). The organisation is also a member of the NZ Resuscitation Council (NZRC) and the Association of Emergency Care Training Providers (AECTP). \n\nOrganisations can purchase AEDs from St John and learn how to use them. St John also sells first aid kits and supplies for home or business use.\n\nSt John Youth programmes help young New Zealanders to develop first aid, health care, leadership and life skills. Penguins are aged 6 to 8, Cadets are aged 8 to 18. These programmes are fully funded by donations.\n\nSt John Youth has 6,337 Youth Members and 1,119 Youth Leaders as of 30 June 2017\n\nSt John provides health shuttles, youth programmes, hospital friends, phone friends and pet outreach therapy to help people live independently, get the social connections they need and improve their wellbeing. These services are run primarily by volunteers and are often free of charge.\n\nThe St John Health Shuttle is a free community service that transports people to essential medical and health-related appointments, and then brings them home again.\n\nCaring Caller is a service that St John provides for people who live alone or feel a bit lonely. Volunteers phone clients regularly to check that everything is OK. This free service is fully funded by donations.\n\nSt John runs hospital volunteer programmes called FEDs and Hospital Friends. Our people provide comfort and support to patients, their whanau and friends. Friends of the Emergency Department (FED) and Hospital Friends volunteers provide comfort and support to patients and their families in hospital emergency departments, as well as other departments and smaller hospitals.\n\nThe ASB St John in Schools programme visits schools to give children an understanding of how to recognise, and act appropriately in, a first aid emergency The topic range includes how to call an ambulance and basic first aid. The ASB St John in Schools programme visits schools in many parts of New Zealand to give children an understanding of how to recognise, and act appropriately in, a first aid emergency. The topic range includes how to call an ambulance, basic first aid skills and familiarisation with ambulances and the people and equipment children may interact with in a first aid emergency. ASB St John in Schools caters to a broad age group - from late pre-school age through to intermediate. Topics and teaching strategies are all appropriate to the age of the children.\n\nSt John partners with other organisations to provide Healthline (a free 24x7 health advice helpline), Outreach Therapy Pets and PRIME (a programme that uses the skills of specially-trained rural GPs and/or rural nurses to support the St John Ambulance Service during medical emergencies in remote areas).\n\nSt John is NZ’s number one provider of event medical services. They look after events of all sizes, from high-profile international sports matches to small community fairs. St John is New Zealand’s number one provider of medical services at events. They provide medical coverage at some of the largest and most high-profile events in the country but also look after small events, like school gala days and community fairs.\n\nThe St John Medical Alarm service is designed to help people live independently for longer. The alarm is a pendant which is worn around the neck or wrist. If the person has an accident or feels unwell or at risk they can press the emergency button on the alarm. St John immediately calls the person, speaking through a loudspeaker in the alarm’s base unit. If the person does not answer, an ambulance is dispatched.\n\nSt John is a charitable organisation which relies on its volunteer workforce to deliver health services to the New Zealand population. Volunteers outnumber paid employees by around three to one. In 2017, 9,232 people volunteered for St John and the organisation had 3,033 paid staff. If the St John volunteer contribution was valued at normal commercial rates it would equate to $30 million. St John volunteers receive specialised training and clinical education.\n\nContracts with the Ministry of Health, ACC and District Health Boards fund just under 80% of the direct operating costs of the St John ambulance service.\n\nThe difference is made up from community and corporate donations, fund-raising, revenue from commercial activities (first aid kits, first aid training, medical alarms and defibrillators), as well as income from emergency ambulance part charges.\n\nThese activities also fund the delivery of non-ambulance services such as the St John Youth programmes, Friends of the Emergency Department, Hospital Friends, Caring Caller, St John Safe Kids and Outreach Therapy Pets.\n\nIn 2008, St John and ASB Bank initiated a partnership. The partnership helps to expand support for St John services and deliver programmes like CPR training on a wide scale. At the same time, the partnership gives ASB the opportunity to strengthen connections with local communities and give their employees the opportunity to get involved with community services by volunteering for St John.\n\nThe partnership was launched with ASB providing the opportunity for 1,000 school children at 10 schools to learn the lifesaving resuscitation skill CPR for free.\n\nSt John in New Zealand has global links to the international Order of St John. Her Majesty the Queen is Sovereign Head of the Order and the Governor-General of New Zealand is the head or Prior of St John in New Zealand. \n\nIn 1888, in recognition of its work, Queen Victoria made the Order of St John a Royal Order of Chivalry. In New Zealand, Royal Honours continue to be awarded to members for outstanding contributions and commitment to care for their communities. These Royal Honours are an independent part of the New Zealand Honours System. Honours are conferred annually at St John investiture services.\n\nA branch of the St John Ambulance was first founded in Christchurch, New Zealand, on 30 April 1885. It was decided to appoint the Governor (William Jervois) as president, and the mayors of Christchurch (Charles Hulbert), Sydenham (William White), and St Albans (Benjamin Bull) as vice-presidents. Further branches quickly spread across the country providing first aid and patient transport and in 1946, due to the efforts of St John in New Zealand during the Second World War, the organisation was elevated to a full Priory, with the Governor-General of New Zealand as the Prior. \n\nDuring the 1970s and 1980s much restructuring took place in response to changing social and economic conditions, moving away from the traditional militaristic structure and resulting in the current modern organisation.\n\nToday, St John New Zealand is a major health service provider in New Zealand. They provide 90% of the emergency and non-emergency ambulance coverage for the New Zealand population, emergency care and first aid at public events, support phone lines for the elderly and house-bound, hospital patient transport, public first aid training, health products and a youth programme.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27764575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27764575", "title": "Temporary EHR Certification Program", "text": "Temporary EHR Certification Program\n\nOn June 18, 2010, The United States Department of Health and Human Services released 45 CFR part 170, Establishment of the Temporary Certification Program for Health Information Technology\n\nThe rule establishes a temporary certification program for the purposes of testing and certifying health information technology. The\ntemporary certification program will authorize organizations to test and certify Complete Electronic Health Records (EHRs) and/or EHR Modules.\n"}
{"id": "19751291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19751291", "title": "Transfer of the São Francisco River", "text": "Transfer of the São Francisco River\n\nThe Transfer of the São Francisco River is a large-scale interbasin transfer to the dry sertão in the four northeastern states of Ceara, Rio Grande do Norte, Paraiba and Pernambuco in Brazil. The project, which was given the green light to go ahead by Brazil's government in 2005, is estimated to cost US$2 billion and is expected to improve the lives of 12m people. After legal challenges were brought against the project, the Supreme Court allowed it to go ahead in December 2007.\n\nThe project would divert 1.4% of the river's water for municipal water supply, industry and irrigation. Municipal water supply would receive priority over other uses, which would only be catered for when the Sobradinho Reservoir behind the Sobradinho Dam on the São Francisco River, which produces much of the region's electricity, is nearly full about 40% of the time. The project actually consists of two transfers:The East axis would transfer water to the Paraíba do Norte River, while the North axis would transfer water to the Jaguaribe and Piranhas rivers. The project includes 700 km of canals and tunnels, as well as several dams. It is expected to displace almost a million people and construction is expected to take 20 years to complete.\n\nCritics of the project argue that beneficiary states should improve management of their own water before importing it from outside the region. Bishop Luiz Flávio Cappio from Bahia also wonders why water is being exported when 3m poor live along the Sao Francisco river's course, many of them without running water and proper sanitation. He argues that the transfer “will demand huge resources that could be spent on other projects much closer to the reality of the people”. It is also being said that the project will mainly benefit richer farmers who already have irrigation infrastructure in place and not rainfed farmers that are hardest hit by drought. The alleged insufficiency of water in the Sao Francisco River itself during the dry season, and its consequent impact on aquatic ecosystems, is another argument of critics. For example, João Alves Filho, governor of the state of Sergipe, says that there are already “signs of mortality” where the river joins the sea. Marco Antônio Tavares Coelho, a prominent opponent, says that \"aridity is the natural state of the sertão\" and that soaking it would be like \"removing ice from the North Pole\". In 2001 the World Bank reportedly refused to finance the project because of its limited impact in combating poverty and drought.\n\n"}
{"id": "23104148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23104148", "title": "VeNom Coding Group", "text": "VeNom Coding Group\n\nThe VeNom Coding Group is a group of veterinary academics and practitioners from across Britain who have devised a standardized terminology for use in veterinary medicine. These codes are available to academic or research institutes, software manufacturers or veterinary practices after a request for a permission.\n\nThe VeNom Codes have been developed in the first opinion and referral hospitals at the RVC in collaboration with Glasgow Vet School and the PDSA and are now maintained by a multi-institution group of veterinary clinicians and IT specialists from the RVC, Glasgow Vet School and the PDSA called the VeNom Coding Group.\n\nA small group of members from various institutes manage and maintain the list of terms, and invite or authorize others to use the term. A second group of members provide the scientific input to ensure the list is peer reviewed and correct - these members can be any one who uses the list. Any disputes over the list will be solved by a general consensus and overseen by the management group.\n\nThe VENOM codes comprise an extensive, standardised list of terms for recording the best available diagnosis at the end of an animal visit. It comprises mainly diagnoses but also includes terms appropriate for administrative transactions (e.g. non prescription diet sales, over the counter items, travel related items) and preventive health visits (vaccination(s), routine parasite control, neutering). In the event that the clinician seeing the animal feels unable to record a diagnosis for the visit (for example, on a first consultation when only limited diagnostic workup has been possible, e.g. coughing where a precise diagnosis is not yet available) it is also possible to select one or more presenting complaints (again, these are standardised in the list). If an item is missing from the list, please advise us and we will make the necessary adjustments if required. We are currently working on other lists (procedures etc.) and these will be added to the VENOM codes in due course.\n\nThe VENOM codes are a long list of conditions (Term name) identified by their unique numeric codes (Data Dictionary Id). There is a label field to identify the type of term (Container and Container ID–e.g. diagnosis, presenting complaint, administrative task etc.). The Top level modelling field includes the parent grouping / body system for each term. There is also a CRIS Active flag which is elected if the PMS prefers the referral centre version. In this version presenting complaints are stated without 'presenting complaint - ' prefix and the administrative tasks are excluded. For the first opinion version the Rx Active flag field allows selection of this version and includes presenting complaints with the prefix ‘presenting complaint -’ to highlight this is not strictly a diagnosis. The final field is the Active Flag key which indicates if the term is active or has been inactivated.\n\nThe VENOM Codes have been developed in the first opinion and referral hospitals at the Royal Veterinary College (RVC) in collaboration with Glasgow Vet School and the PDSA and the codes are now maintained by a multi-institution group of veterinary clinicians and IT experts from the RVC, Glasgow Vet School and the PDSA called the VENOM Coding Group. The codes are a long list identified by their unique numeric code and work best with a multi-letter search function–so clinicians type ‘abs’ and get all possible terms with abs as first letters of any of the words in the diagnosis–e.g. ‘anal sac abscess’, ‘abscess–neck (cervical)’,…etc. For some terms there are synonyms in brackets behind the main term to allow identification of the correct term if these letters are typed in the search box.\n\nThe main concern for VENOM Codes is that all PMS’s and other end-users that adopt the VENOM codes also adopt the rules of the VENOM Coding group–namely that the VENOM Coding group maintains the list. If, for example, a practitioner requests a new item, then you forward the request to us (or they go direct to us). We then put it to the VENOM Coding group to vote on and if approved it is added to the list, if not it doesn’t go on the list. Our turn around on new items is 3-5 working days currently. The new item would be added to the list and then emailed out to each computer management system that uses the codes to upload to their system and practices. We are now working to 3 monthly updates, though can issue additional updates if end-users require specific terms to be added sooner. We also request that the diagnostic lists used by the PMS’s and other end-users are kept restricted to the standard VENOM terms and that practitioners can not their own terms as they go along.\n\nThe codes are a long list identified by their unique numeric codes (Data dictionary id) and work well with a multi-letter search function–so clinicians type ‘abs’ and get all possible terms with abs as first letters of any of the words in the diagnosis–e.g. ‘anal sac abscess’, ‘abscess–neck (cervical)’,…etc. For some terms there are synonyms in brackets behind the main term to allow identification of the correct term if these letters are typed in the search box. Apart from the Term name and data dictionary id (numeric code), there is a label field to identify the type of term and then currently the other fields of the codes include a 'CRIS active flag' which is elected if you want the referral version–presenting complaints without 'presenting complaint' prefix and without the admin tasks etc. Otherwise for the first opinion version the ‘Rx Active flag’ field allows selection of this version. The final field is the Active flag which indicates if the term is active or has been inactivated.\n\n"}
{"id": "48845205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48845205", "title": "William B. Downs", "text": "William B. Downs\n\nWilliam B. Downs (1899–January 13, 1966) was an American orthodontist who is known for developing the first cephalometric analysis for orthodontics, the Downs analysis.\n\nHe was born in 1899 in Chicago, Illinois and was the oldest of three children. He moved to Batavia, Illinois in 1904 with his family where his father established his practice as a dentist. Downs went to Batavia High School (Batavia, Illinois) and became interested in studying agriculture. He went to Two Dot, Montana where he oversaw a sheep ranch for his father. Downs then returned to Illinois after two years and enrolled himself in University of Illinois at Chicago College of Dentistry. He received his dental degree in 1926. He became a Professor in the Crown and Bridge Department of Dental School at UIC for next four years. He then enrolled himself in the first class of graduate Orthodontics at the University of Illinois and graduated with a master's degree in 1931.\n\nHe then taught at UIC Dental School until 1955 in the graduate department. Dr. Downs was interested in facial growth and development throughout his career. He worked on the \"\"Cephalometric Appraisal of Treated Result\" and \"Variations in Facial Relationships: Their Significance in Treatment and Prognosis\". This paper won him first prize from the American Association of Orthodontists in 1948, and it led to the first cephalometric analysis in the field of Orthodontics. Dr. Downs developed what is called Downs Cephalometric Analysis which assess facial growth and development through the analysis of a Cephalometric Radiographic Image.\n\nHe was a member of the Chicago Association of Orthodontists and Tweed Foundation.\n\nDr. Downs retired in 1965 due to ill health.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6883215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6883215", "title": "Yellow Card Scheme", "text": "Yellow Card Scheme\n\nThe Yellow Card Scheme is the UK system for collecting information on suspected adverse drug reactions (ADRs) to medicines. The scheme allows the safety of the medicines and vaccines that are on the market to be monitored.\n\nThe Scheme was founded in 1964 after the thalidomide disaster, and was developed by Bill Inman. It is run by the Medicines and Healthcare Products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) and the Commission on Human Medicines. It was extended to hospital pharmacists in 1997, and to community pharmacists in 1999. Suspected adverse reactions are collected on all licensed medicines and vaccines, from those issued on prescription to medicines bought over the counter from a pharmacist or supermarket. The Scheme also includes all herbal preparations and unlicensed medicines. Adverse reactions can be reported by anyone; this is usually done by healthcare professionals – including doctors, pharmacists and nurses – but patients and carers can also make reports.\n\nThe sort of adverse reactions that should be reported are:\n\n\nYellow Cards are available from pharmacies and a few are presented near the back of the BNF as tear-off pages, copies may also be obtained by telephoning +44 (0) 808 100 3352. The scheme provides forms that allow members of the public to report suspected side effects, as well as health professionals.\n\nThe NHS Information Standards Board for Health and Social Care has issued an information standard for electronic submission of adverse reactions by IT systems. This is based upon the ICS E2B (R2) international standard. In July 2015 a Yellow Card smartphone app was launched for iOS and Android, allowing patients, carers and healthcare workers to report adverse reactions to medications, as well as enabling them to set up alerts for news on particular drugs and find out how many Yellow Cards a medicine has received.\n\nThe Yellow Card Centre Scotland is a joint venture between MHRA and the Scottish Government.\n\n\n"}
