{"id": "7337567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7337567", "title": "0110", "text": "0110\n\nThe 0110 concerts, held on October 1, 2006 in Antwerp, Brussels, Charleroi and Ghent, were organised by dEUS frontman Tom Barman, Arno Hintjens and Frederik Sioen to promote tolerance in Belgian society, and \"against Vlaams Belang, extremism and gratuitous violence\".\n\nAccording to the organisation, more than 100,000 people attended the concerts (around 50,000 in Antwerp, 25,000 in Ghent and Brussels, and 5,000 in Charleroi). Over 140 Belgian artists and groups, often in unprecedented combinations (like Daan and Plastic Bertrand, Gorki and Isabelle A, and so on), volunteered for the event. Tom Barman stated that this would not be a one-time initiative.\n\nThe concerts were sponsored by the Belgian National Lottery. Summer rock festivals like Sfinks, Pukkelpop, Folk Dranouter, Lokerse Feesten, Gentse Feesten and Suikerrock urged their public to support the event.\n\nThe event preceded the 2006 municipal elections in Belgium by just one week, thus sending a political message as well.\n\nThe right wing opposition party Vlaams Belang wrote an open letter to famous Flemish artists, such as Clouseau, Helmut Lotti, Will Tura, Johan Verminnen and Laura Lynn, who were announced to participate, asking not to do so. The party requested the boycott because the event \"only targets Vlaams Belang\". One Vlaams Belang council member has called upon the readers of his web log to start a \"mail bombardment\" to the concerned artists. Critics speak of an intimidation campaign by the party.\nAccording to the Vlaams Belang however, the intimidation came from the organizers of the 0110 concerts and the complete Flemish media against Vlaams Belang, because the Flemish media were partizan of the concerts. According to the party, the media in Flanders is completely in the hands of the left-wing establishment. On the contrary, no Flemish artist would ever even think to participate in a festival organised by the Vlaams Belang, because this would be responded by the establishment by an ever-lasting boycott against the artist. On a party congress on 1 October, Filip Dewinter was quoted saying that \"if it really were concerts against intolerance, the Vlaams Belang would have to be guest of honour\", referring to the cordon sanitaire against the party.\n\nVlaams Belang sees this as a direct attack by the establishment, because the event is sponsored by the Belgian National Lottery. The National Lottery however decided upon the sponsoring contract before the political content was clear.\n\nThe Antwerp mayor Patrick Janssens (Different Socialist Party) disapproved of the concerts. The Vlaams Belang party also refers to the fact that the official website of the event specifically states that \"Flanders deserves better than extreme right\" and that Tom Barman, the main organizer, had already announced in 2005 that he was planning a concert \"against Vlaams Belang\" in October 2006.\n\nPresentation: Bart Peeters\nLocation: Vlaamse en Waalse Kaai (Gedempte Zuiderdokken)\n\n\nhttps://web.archive.org/web/20140513011523/https://www.proximusgoformusic.be/nl/item.php?text_id=145438\n\nPresentation: Annabelle Van Nieuwenhuyse and Sam Touzani \nLocation: Paleizenplein/place des Palais (in Dutch/French)\n\n\"De Laatste Showband\" with guests:\n\nLocation: Spiroudome\n\n\nPresentation: Wim Oosterlinck\nLocation: NMBS parking (St. Pietersstation)\n\n\nIn 2008 Belgian author Bart Van Lierde wrote the crime novel \"0110\": the premiss is a terrorist act during the 0110 concerts in Antwerp. The main question is which political party ordered the attack: Vlaams Belang, as this party is convinced that the concerts are held to influence the outcome of the municipal elections; or the other parties, as the outcome indeed may be influenced if Vlaams Belang will be found guilty.\n\n"}
{"id": "34213753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34213753", "title": "127th IOC Session", "text": "127th IOC Session\n\nThe 127th IOC Session took place in December 2014 in Monte Carlo, Monaco.\n\nAll provisions in the Olympic Agenda 2020 reform package were approved by the full IOC membership.\n\nOn December 9, 2014, the IOC members voted for the city that will host the 131st IOC Session in 2017.\n\nThe IOC approved Kosovo's inclusion as a full member of the Committee, allowed the country to participate in Rio 2016 under its national flag. The IOC code for Kosovo Olympic Team is KOS.\n\n"}
{"id": "12137905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12137905", "title": "1947 Belgian Grand Prix", "text": "1947 Belgian Grand Prix\n\nThe 1947 Belgian Grand Prix was a Grand Prix motor race held at Spa-Francorchamps on 29 June 1947. The race was also known as the European Grand Prix.\n"}
{"id": "58921108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58921108", "title": "2019 WTA 125K series", "text": "2019 WTA 125K series\n\nThe WTA 125K series is the secondary professional tennis circuit organised by the Women's Tennis Association. The 2019 WTA 125K series calendar consists of eight tournaments as per the tentative schedule, each with a total prize fund of $125,000 except the Oracle Challenger Series that offers $150,000 in prize money.\n\nThese tables present the number of singles (S) and doubles (D) titles won by each player and each nation during the season. The players/nations are sorted by: 1) total number of titles (a doubles title won by two players representing the same nation counts as only one win for the nation); 2) a singles > doubles hierarchy; 3) alphabetical order (by family names for players).\n\n\"To avoid confusion and double counting, these tables should be updated only after an event is completed.\"\n"}
{"id": "133590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=133590", "title": "A Few Good Men (play)", "text": "A Few Good Men (play)\n\nA Few Good Men is a play by Aaron Sorkin, first produced on Broadway by David Brown in 1989. It tells the story of military lawyers at a court-martial who uncover a high-level conspiracy in the course of defending their clients, two United States Marines accused of murder.\n\nIt opened on Broadway at the Music Box Theatre in New York on November 15, 1989, in a production directed by Don Scardino, with Tom Hulce as LTJG Kaffee, Megan Gallagher as LCDR JoAnne Galloway and Stephen Lang as Col Jessep. Michael O'Hare replaced Lang as Jessep later in the run.\n\nSorkin adapted his work into a screenplay for a 1992 film directed by Rob Reiner, produced by Brown and starring Tom Cruise, Jack Nicholson, and Demi Moore. The film was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Picture, and the Golden Globe for Best Screenplay.\n\nSorkin got the idea for the play from a phone conversation with his sister Deborah, who had graduated from Boston University Law School and was serving a three-year stint with the Navy Judge Advocate General's Corps. She was going to Guantanamo Bay Naval Base to defend a group of Marines who had come close to killing a fellow Marine in a hazing ordered by a superior officer. Sorkin took that information and wrote much of his story on cocktail napkins while bartending at the Palace Theatre on Broadway.\n\nSeveral former Navy JAG lawyers have been proposed as the model for the character of Lieutenant Daniel Kaffee, USN, JAG Corps. These include Donald Marcari, David Iglesias, and Walter Bansley III. The court martial was Macari's first big court case. However, in a statement released by his spokeswoman, Sorkin said, “The character of Dan Kaffee in ‘A Few Good Men’ is entirely fictional and was not inspired by any particular individual.”\n\nOnce Sorkin completed a draft, his theatrical agent sent it to producer David Brown who wanted the film rights. Sorkin sold Brown the rights, getting Brown to agree to also produce \"A Few Good Men\" as a play.\n\n\"A Few Good Men\" had its world premiere at the Heritage Repertory Theatre at the University of Virginia's Department of Drama on September 19, 1989. It then transferred to the Kennedy Center.\n\nThe original Broadway stage production opened at the Music Box Theatre in New York on November 15, 1989, in a production directed by Don Scardino, designed by Ben Edwards, and with music by John Gromada. It starred Tom Hulce as LTJG Kaffee; Megan Gallagher as LCDR JoAnne Galloway; Clark Gregg as Lt. Jack Ross; Stephen Lang as Col Jessep, and Robert Hogan as Capt. Matthew A. Markinson. Replacement actors included Timothy Busfield and Bradley Whitford as Lt.Jack Ross (understudy for Kaffee), Perry King, Michael O'Hare, and Ron Perlman as Jessep, and Pamela Blair as Galloway. Joshua Malina also appeared. Malina would go on to reprise his role in the movie adaption. \n\nThe production ran for 497 performances.\n\nA Spanish-language production titled \"Hombres de Honor\" opened on January 10, 1991, at the Ferré Performing Arts Center in Puerto Rico, starring Cordelia González and Rafo Muñiz, directed by Pablo Cabrera.\n\nA national touring company performed through 1992 with Michael O'Keefe as LTJG Kaffee, Alyson Reed as LCDR Galloway, and Paul Winfield as the judge.\n\nIn January 1993 \"A Few Good Men\" had its premiere in German language at the Volkstheater, Vienna, Austria (translation: Gunther Baumann, director: Erhard Pauer, Daniel Kaffee: Alfons Haider). In the following years this production went on tour and was shown all over Germany, Switzerland and Austria (German title: Eine Frage der Ehre/A Question Of Honor).\n\nA revival of the play starring Rob Lowe in the role of LTJG Kaffee, Suranne Jones as LCDR Galloway and John Barrowman as Capt Ross, opened at the Theatre Royal Haymarket, London, in late August 2005 for preview showings followed by a three-month run in early September 2005. The stage show was directed by David Esbjornson.\n\nIn 2006, the Hudson Shakespeare Company of New Jersey staged a production as part of their second stage for modern shows. The tour was presented in city courtrooms, directed by Jon Ciccarelli and featured notable NYC actors such as Jon Crefeld as LTJG Kaffee and Charles J. Roby as Col. Jessup.\n\nJensen Ackles appeared as LTJG Kaffee alongside Lou Diamond Phillips as Col Jessep in a production of the play at the Casa Mañana Theatre, in Fort Worth, Texas, June 5–10, 2007.\n\nIt has also been performed in London, Oxford and Portsmouth by amateur groups.\n\nA Hungarian production of the play was performed at Madách Szinház, Budapest. It was directed by Imre Kerényi, starring Sándor Czvetkó, Éva Kerekes and Gábor Koncz.\n\nBy the Book Theatre produced the play November 25, 2014 to December 6, 2014 at the McManus Studio Theatre, London, Ontario. The production won 4 Brickenden Awards including Outstanding Drama.\n\nJune 30, 2016 marked the opening of the Warehouse Studio Theatre production at The Noho Arts Center under the direction of Tony Pauletto and starring K. C. Clyde as Kaffee alongside Dennis LaValle as Jessup and Sarah Klein as Galloway.\n\nIn March 2016, NBC announced its intent to broadcast a live television production of \"A Few Good Men\", starring Alec Baldwin as Col. Jessup, in the second quarter of 2018, with a teleplay adapted by Sorkin from his original script. The broadcast would be executive produced by Craig Zadan and Neil Meron, and patterned upon NBC's ongoing series of live Broadway musicals. However, NBC has yet to announce an official airdate. \"Variety\" reported that the availability of Sorkin, Zadan, and Meron may have had an impact, noting that Sorkin had to represent his 2017 film \"Molly's Game\" during awards season, while Zadan and Meron (who have produced all of NBC's live musicals) were committed to other projects (such as \"Jesus Christ Superstar Live in Concert\" in 2018, and an upcoming production of \"Hair\" in 2019) being produced by NBC in lieu of \"Bye Bye Birdie\", which has been delayed multiple times in order to accommodate Jennifer Lopez's other projects.\n\nThe Broadway production earned Megan Gallagher a 1990 Theatre World Award and a Best Actor nomination for Tom Hulce at the 44th Tony Awards.\n\nThe play is based on events that took place at Guantanamo Bay Naval Base in July 1986, though various details were changed for dramatic purposes. Members of Rifle Security Company, Windward Side, 2nd Platoon believed that one of their number, Pfc. William Alvarado, was a malingerer and had informed about a Marine firing across the border into Cuba. In a retaliatory hazing (called a \"Code Red\"), ten Marines seized Alvarado, blindfolded him, stuffed a rag in his mouth, beat him and shaved his head. Alvarado was seriously injured, but did not die. Of the ten Marines, seven accepted other than honorable discharges as part of a plea bargain, but three, including David Cox, refused to accept the plea bargain and went to court. Cox was defended by Don Macari. Cox was found not guilty of aggravated battery, but guilty of the misdemeanor charge of simple assault. He was sentenced to time already served in the brig, and returned to active duty.\n\nCox was honorably discharged from the Marines in 1989. When he saw the film version of \"A Few Good Men\", he was upset at the liberties taken with the event, most notably that the Marines in the case were dishonorably discharged, and considered suing the filmmakers. Cox disappeared in 1994. He was found murdered, along a riverbank near Medfield, Massachusetts.\n"}
{"id": "1229788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1229788", "title": "Air Ambulance Show", "text": "Air Ambulance Show\n\nAir Ambulance Show is an international fair of integrated emergency systems for professionals and general public. The fair takes place every year in May in Hradec Králové in the Czech Republic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5502068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5502068", "title": "Alan Christopher Deere", "text": "Alan Christopher Deere\n\nAir Commodore Alan Christopher \"Al\" Deere, (12 December 1917 – 21 September 1995) was a New Zealand fighter pilot with the Royal Air Force during World War 2, and the author of the war memoir \"Nine Lives\".\n\nDeere was born in Auckland, the third son of Terrence (known as Joe) and Teresa (née Curtin) Deere, while his father was employed in the Post Office. The family returned soon after Alan's birth to the family's home town of Westport, where Joe took up a position with the New Zealand Railways.\n\nDeere attended St Canices School in Westport before the family moved to Wanganui where the family established a home at 43 Plymouth Street, which allowed Deere to grow up in a semi-rural environment while he attended Marist Brothers' School and Wanganui Technical College. At the age of eight he saw an aircraft fly overhead and sprinted to see it land on a nearby beach. The pilot allowed him to sit in the cockpit and Deere determined to become a pilot.\n\nAfter a school career dominated by success in sports, representing his school in rugby, cricket and boxing, Deere spent two years as a law clerk. Encouraged by his family doctor to follow his chosen career, Deere persuaded his mother to sign the under 21 application for entry into the Royal Air Force. He passed selection under Wing Commander Ralph Cochrane in April 1937 and sailed for England on the \"Rangitane\" in September, but was admitted to hospital with high blood pressure.\n\nDeere began flying training on 28 October 1937, at the De Havilland Flying School at White Waltham, the No. 13 Elementary and Reserve Flying Training School.\n\nOn 9 January 1938 he was granted a short service commission as an acting pilot officer on probation and started initial officer training at RAF Uxbridge. He was confirmed in his appointment as a pilot officer on 28 October 1938. Deere was selected for the RAF boxing team to tour South Africa, but flight training took priority and he was posted to No. 6 Flight Training School on 22 January 1939. The aircraft he was to have travelled in crashed at Bulawayo with the loss of all on board.\n\nDeere was temporarily posted to No. 74 Squadron on 20 August, before joining No. 54 Squadron in September where he was joined by Colin Gray, who was to become New Zealand's top scoring pilot of World War II. Both squadrons operated Gloster Gladiators, the RAF's last biplane fighter.\n\nNo. 54 Squadron remained in England until May 1940, tasked with home defence, having converted to Supermarine Spitfire Mk 1s at the beginning of the year. Deere was enraptured with the Spitfire, describing it as \"the most beautiful and easy aircraft to fly.\" He was later given a chance to fly a captured Messerschmitt Bf 109 (called a Me 109 by Allied pilots) and found the Spitfire superior:\nIn my written report on the combat I stated that in my opinion the Spitfire was superior overall to the Me 109, except in the initial climb and dive; however this was an opinion contrary to the belief of the so-called experts. Their judgement was of course based on intelligence assessments and the performance of the 109 in combat with the Hurricane in France. In fact, the Hurricane, though vastly more manoeuvrable than either the Spitfire or the Me 109, was so sadly lacking in speed and rate of climb, that its too-short combat experience against the 109 was not a valid yardstick for comparison. The Spitfire, however, possessed these two attributes to such a degree that, coupled with a better rate of turn than the Me 109, it had the edge overall in combat. There may have been scepticism by some about my claim for the Spitfire, but I had no doubts on the score; nor did my fellow pilots in 54 Squadron.\n\nOn 23 May 1940, during the closing phases of the Battle of France, Deere and Pilot Officer J. Allen flew Spitfires escorting Flight Lieutenant James Leathart across the channel in a Miles Magister to rescue No. 74 Squadron's commanding officer, who had made a forced landing. In sight of Leathart and White, Deere claimed his first combat victories, shooting down two Bf 109s. Later the same day he shot down a third Bf 109. On 24 May he added a Bf 110 over Dunkirk and on the 26th claimed two more in the same area.\n\nOn 28 May Deere was shot down by a Dornier Do 17 he was attacking near Dunkirk. He was knocked unconscious when making a forced landing on a Belgian beach. Rescued by a soldier, Deere made his way on foot to Oost-Dunkerke where his head injuries were dressed. He hitched a ride on a British Army lorry to Dunkirk, and (after receiving some criticism from soldiers about the effectiveness of the RAF's fighter cover), boarded a boat to Dover from where he took a train back to London, 19 hours after taking off from RAF Hornchurch with his squadron.\n\nTogether with Leathart and Allen, Deere was awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross on 12 June 1940. The medal was presented at Hornchurch by King George VI on 27 June. His citation read:\nDuring May 1940, this officer has, in company with his squadron, taken part in numerous offensive patrols over Northern France, and has been engaged in seven combats often against superior numbers of the enemy. In the course of these engagements he has personally shot down five enemy aircraft and assisted in the destruction of others. On one occasion, in company with a second aircraft, he escorted a trainer aircraft to Calais Marck aerodrome, for the purpose of rescuing a squadron commander who had been shot down there. The trainer aircraft was attacked by twelve Messerschmitt 109's whilst taking off at Calais, but Pilot Officer Deere, with the other pilot, immediately attacked, with the result that three enemy aircraft were shot down, and a further three severely damaged. Throughout these engagements this officer has displayed courage and determination in his attacks on the enemy.\n\nNo. 54 Squadron took part in the defence of channel shipping against Luftwaffe attacks designed to draw out and destroy RAF Fighter Command. On 9 July Deere shot down a Bf 109 over the channel, but then collided head on with a Bf 109 of 4 \"Staffel\", \"Jagdgeschwader 51\", flown by Oberfeldwebel Johann Illner. The propeller blades of Deere's spitfire \"Kiwi\" were bent backwards, the engine disabled, and much of the fin and rudder lost. Nevertheless, he managed to glide back to the coast near Manston where his forced landing in a paddock ended against a stone wall.\n\nThe colour scheme of this aircraft (\"P9398\", KL-B, named, like two other Deere Spitfires, \"Kiwi\"), was accurately recorded and in consequence it has been a favourite with modellers and manufacturers. The remains of this aircraft have recently been excavated and are to be rebuilt.\n\nOn 28 July Deere was promoted to the rank of flying officer. After Adlertag (Eagle Day) on 11 August he shot down a Bf 109, two more plus a Bf 110 the next day, and on the 15th added another Bf 109 over the Channel. However he was then trapped in an unequal dogfight with Bf 109s which attempted to block his return to England. Deere made the coast but was forced to bail out at low altitude, and was admitted to Victoria Hospital with minor injuries. He discharged himself the following day. Deere was shot down again on 28 August - this time by a Spitfire - but parachuted to safety. A frustrating combat on the 30th saw him claim a probable Do 17.\n\nThe following day the Luftwaffe raided Hornchurch. Deere led a section of three Spitfires which attempted to take off during the raid. A bomb destroyed all three aircraft. Deere's Spitfire was blown on its back, trapping him. Pilot Officer Eric Edsall, though badly injured when his own Spitfire had been destroyed, crawled to Deere's aircraft and freed him. Seeing Edsall's injuries, Deere then carried his rescuer to the sick bay.\n\nDeere was critical of the lack of training given to new pilots:\nWe were desperately short of pilots. ... We were getting pilots who had not been on Spitfires because there were no conversion units at that time. They came straight to a squadron from their training establishments. Some of them did have a few hours on the Hurricanes, a monoplane experience, but not on the Spitfire. For example, we got two young New Zealanders into my flight. Chatting to them I found they'd been six weeks at sea coming over. They were trained on some very outdated aircraft, I can't remember, out in NZ. One of the pilots had taken them up to see the handling and brief them on the Spitfire. Then they'd go off for one solo flight and circuit, then they were into battle. The answer of course is that they didn't last. Those two lasted two trips and they both finished up in Dover hospital. One was pulled out of the Channel. One landed by parachute.\n\nSuch was the toll on men of No. 54 Squadron that on 3 September, before the peak of the battle, the squadron was withdrawn from No. 11 Group and moved to the northern airfield at RAF Catterick to rest and recover.\n\nA Bar to his Distinguished Flying Cross was awarded on 6 September 1940. The citation read:\nSince the outbreak of war this officer has personally destroyed eleven, and probably one other, enemy aircraft, and assisted in the destruction of two more. In addition to the skill and gallantry he has shown in leading his flight, and in many instances his squadron, Flight Lieutenant Deere has displayed conspicuous bravery and determination in pressing home his attacks against superior numbers of enemy aircraft, often pursuing them across the Channel in order to shoot them down. As a leader he shows outstanding dash and determination.\n\nWhile training new replacement pilots in January 1941, Deere collided with one of them, losing most of his tail to the Sergeant Pilot's propellor. When bailing out, Deere was trapped against part of his aircraft, and his damaged parachute failed to fully open. Deere landed in an area of open sewerage which broke much of his fall. As a result of this incident he was rested from active flying, but granted the acting rank of squadron leader and tasked as Operations Room Controller at Catterick. An unusual honour was having his portrait painted by official war artist Cuthbert Orde that February.\n\nOn 7 May 1941 he was posted to RAF Ayr as a flight commander in No. 602 Squadron. On 5 June he suffered engine failure over the North Sea and glided back to another forced landing on the coast, crawling out the small side door after the Spitfire flipped on to its back, destroying the canopy and temporarily trapping him. At the end of July he took over as Officer Commanding No. 602 Squadron, and on 1 August it moved back to RAF Kenley. On the same day he shot down another Bf 109.\n\nHe was promoted to the war substantive rank of flight lieutenant on 28 July 1941, and to the permanent rank on 28 October 1941.\n\nIn January 1942 he was sent on a lecturing and public relations trip to America teaching American pilots fighter tactics learnt in the Battle of Britain.\n\nDeere returned to action on 1 May, taking command of a Royal Canadian Air Force squadron, No. 403 Squadron, at RAF North Weald. In August he went on a course at RAF Staff College and was subsequently posted to Headquarters No. 13 Group on staff duties.\n\nHe engineered a return to operations, somewhat unofficially, as a supernumerary with No. 611 Squadron at RAF Biggin Hill. He shot down an Fw 190 soon after, but wrote of his great respect for the type and its pilots.\n\nHe was given command of the Kenley fighter wing, but this was changed at the last minute to keep him as wing leader at Biggin Hill. While there, Deere was awarded the Distinguished Service Order, the citation reading: \nThis officer has displayed exceptional qualities of skill which have played a large part in the successes of formations he has led. His fearlessness, tenacity and unswerving devotion to duty have inspired all with whom he has flown. Wing Commander Deere has destroyed 18 enemy aircraft.\n\nDeere led 121 sorties during his six months as wing leader, and added another four claims to his total. He was granted the war substantive rank of temporary squadron leader on 14 June 1943.\n\nOn 15 September 1943 he went to RAF Sutton Bridge to command the Fighter Wing of the Central Gunnery School. On 14 January 1944 he was awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross by the United States. He received a staff job in March 1944 at No. 11 Group but at the request of General Valin, abandoned this to take command of the Free French fighter wing, leading it over the beaches on D-Day, and subsequently in its pilots' return to France. When the fighter wing moved further into Europe, he was posted to HQ 84 Group Control Centre as Wing Commander Plans until July 1945 when he became Station Commander at Biggin Hill. He was awarded the Order of the British Empire on 1 June 1945.\n\nAt the end of the war Deere was given command of the Polish P-51 Mustang Wing at RAF Andrews Field, Essex, presiding over its disbandment in October, before becoming Commanding Officer at RAF Duxford. Deere received a permanent commission as a squadron leader on 1 September 1945. In 1947 he was on the staff of AHQ Malta, subsequently joining the headquarters of No. 61 Group before becoming Operations Officer, North-Eastern Sector, RAF Linton-on-Ouse.\n\nDeere was promoted to wing commander on 1 July 1951, and became Commanding Officer of RAF North Weald the following year. In 1955 he was on the directing staff of the RAF Staff College. He was promoted to group captain on 1 January 1958. Deere published his autobiography \"Nine Lives\" in 1959. He served as Aide-de-camp to the Queen from 22 March 1961 to 30 June 1964, and was appointed Assistant Commandant of the RAF College, Cranwell, on 3 February 1963. Deere took command of 12 (East Anglian) Sector of Fighter Command on 25 March 1964, and was promoted to air commodore on 1 July.\n\nOn 30 January 1965 he was given the honour of leading fellow Battle of Britain fighter pilots in the main funeral cortège for Winston Churchill. In 1966 he commanded No. 1 School of Technical Training at RAF Halton. He was consulted for the 1969 film \"Battle of Britain\".\n\nDeere retired from the Royal Air Force on 12 December 1967. He then took up the civilian position of Director of RAF Rugby, which subsequently was expanded to Director RAF Sport. During this period he was Chairman of the RAF Rugby Board and a member of the Combined Services Rugby Team selection panel. A team selected while he was on the panel played the New Zealand All Blacks at Twickenham. He eventually retired to the village of Wendover, near Halton.\n\nHe died on 21 September 1995 in his 78 year from the effects of cancer, a disease which also killed his grandfather and four of his brothers. His body was subsequently cremated, and it ashes were scattered over the River Thames from a Spitfire.\n\nDeere married Joan Fenton on 18 September 1945. They had two children, Jaqueline (born July 1946) and John.\n\nDeere was the third of six sons, Pat, Brian, Leslie (known as Jimmy), Kevin and Des. Four of his brothers served in the armed forces during the Second World War.\n\nBrian Deere's son, Brendon Deere, between 2001 and 2009 restored back to flying status Spitfire Mark IX PV270. This aircraft is painted in his uncle's markings when he was Wing Commander Flying at Biggin Hill in June 1943.\n\n\nNotes\n\n"}
{"id": "19135007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19135007", "title": "Alternative exhibition space", "text": "Alternative exhibition space\n\nAn alternative exhibition space is a space other than a traditional commercial venue used for the public exhibition of artwork. Often comprising a place converted from another use, such as a store front, warehouse, or factory loft, it is then made into a display or performance space for use by an individual or group of artists. According to art advisor Allan Schwartzman \"alternative spaces were the center of American artistic life in the '70s.\"\n\nMacdonald argues that such spaces emerged in the wake of art practices in the 1960s and 1970s that reacted against the presumed neutrality of the \"white cube\" gallery space. A prominent wave of alternative spaces in the United States occurred in the 1970s, with the first spaces established in 1969, including Billy Apple's APPLE and Robert Newman's Gain Ground where Vito Acconci produced many important early works and Philadelphia's Painted Bride Art Center in Philadelphia. Some date the start of the tendency from 1970, when 112 Greene Street was founded in New York and with the early curatorial work of Alanna Heiss. The Kitchen was established in New York in 1971. A.I.R. Gallery opened in September 1972 as an alternative space women's co-op gallery. About this time And/Or Gallery opened in Seattle, Washington, the first alternative space of its kind in the Pacific Northwest. It was founded by Anne Focke. Bonnie Sherk's Crossroads Community (The Farm), another early alternative space, was established in San Francisco in 1974. Real Art Ways, in Hartford, Connecticut, was founded in 1975.\n\nThe wave of alternative spaces that emerged in the US during the late 1960s through the mid-1970s were typically organized by collectives of artists whose interests were focused on conceptual art, mixed media, electronic media, diversity and performance art. For instance, Franklin Furnace Archive in New York was established in 1976 by Martha Wilson to exhibit performance work. LACE in Los Angeles and Washington Project for the Arts showed performance and video work. One of the most enduring alternative spaces in New York, P.S 1, was founded in 1976. Exit Art in Manhattan opened in 1982. In 1981 the New Museum staged the exhibition \"Alternatives in Retrospect: An Historical Overview 1969-1975\", guest curated by Jacki Apple. This exhibition looked at early New York alternative galleries, Gain Ground, Apple, 98 Greene Street, 112 Greene Street Workshop, 10 Blecker Street, Idea Warehouse and 3 Mercer. The exhibition was documented with a publication and video. In Chicago, the exhibition \"Alternative Spaces\" curated by Lynne Warren at the Museum of Contemporary Art catalogued the scores of artists and artists' spaces to emerge during that period, including Artemisia Gallery (1973-2003), ARC Gallery (1973-), Gallery Bugs Bunny (1968-1972), N.A.M.E. Gallery (1973-1997), NAB Gallery (1974-1984), and Randolph Street Gallery (1979-1998). Earlier waves in Chicago produced the Hyde Park Art Center (1939-) and Contemporary Art Workshop (1950-2009), while later spaces included 1019 W. Lake St./Noise Factory (1981-1985), W.P.A. Gallery (1981-?) and Axe Street Arena (1985-1989). Hundreds of artists enacted those spaces, including Jim Nutt, H.C. Westermann, Ed Paschke (HPAC), Leon Golub, Nancy Spero (CAC), Hollis Sigler, Vera Klement (Artemisia), Phil Berkman and Gary Justis (N.A.M.E.).\n\nAmong the factors contributing to the demise of alternative spaces in the late 1980s in the USA was the reduction of public funding for artists and for the arts. With the election of Ronald Reagan as President came a restructuring of federal supports, such as an end to the CETA program, through which some artists found employment, and restrictions placed upon the National Endowment for the Arts. The net result of the rightward ideological movement in government – with its open hostility to non-traditional art – was that 'alternative artists' were not only de-funded, they and the galleries that featured them were prominently criminalized. By the 1990s, NEA funding was significantly reduced, and so was the number of non-profit galleries.\n\nIn Europe the culture of alternative exhibition spaces differs somewhat from the situation in the United States and has a strong root in the squatting counterculture, which is not illegal in every European country. Also many countries have governmental art funding structures that support many off spaces. In the Netherlands there is OT301, W139 and ADM (all in Amsterdam), Roodkapje (Rotterdam), Nest (The Hague), Sign (Groningen). In the UK there is the MK Gallery in Milton Keynes. Belgium has Het Bos in Antwerp. Liebig 12 is an alternative exhibition space in Berlin. In Vienna there is Moë. Ljubljana has Metelkova with many alternative art spaces, and Copenhagen has alternative spaces in Freetown Christiania. Grand Palace is an alternative art space in Bern, Switzerland. Hirvitalo is in Helsinki, Finland.\n"}
{"id": "40364158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40364158", "title": "Antibiotic use in livestock", "text": "Antibiotic use in livestock\n\nAntibiotic use in livestock is the use of antibiotics for any purpose in the husbandry of livestock, which includes treatment when ill (therapeutic), treatment of a batch of animals when at least one is diagnosed as ill (metaphylaxis, similar to the way bacterial meningitis is treated in children), and preventative treatment (prophylaxis). The use of subtherapeutic doses in animal feed and water to promote growth and improve feed efficiency is discouraged by the FDA as part of their Veterinary Feed Directive, which seeks voluntary compliance from drug manufacturers to re-label their antibiotics. This article does not cover all these areas and instead focuses on the use of antibiotics for growth promotion, which has been banned in Europe since 2006, and on legislation regarding antibiotic use in farm animals in the USA.\n\nIn 2013, the CDC finalized and released a report detailing antibiotic resistance and classified the top 18 resistant bacterium as either being urgent, serious or concerning threats. Of those organisms, three (\"C. diff\", carbapanem-resistant enterobacteriaceae, and \"Neisseria gonorrhoeae\") have been classified as urgent threats and require more monitoring and prevention. In the US alone, more than 2 million people are diagnosed with antibiotic-resistant infections and over 23,000 die per year due to resistant infections.\n\nGiven the concerns about antibiotic use for feed conversion, research into alternatives is ongoing.\n\nIn 1910 in the United States, a meat shortage resulted in protests and boycotts. After this and other shortages, the public demanded government research into stabilization of food supplies. Since the 1900s, livestock production on United States farms has had to rear larger quantities of animals over a short period of time to meet new consumer demands. Factory farming originated in the late 19th century when advances in technology and science allowed for mass production of livestock. Global agriculture production doubled four times within 1820 and 1975, feeding one billion in 1800 and up to 6.5 billion in 2002. The increase in animal densities brought the threat of disease, necessitating greater disease control. In 1950, a group of United States scientists found that adding antibiotics to animal feed increases the growth rate of livestock. American Cyanamid published research establishing the practice.\n\nBy 2001, this practice had grown so much that a report by the Union of Concerned Scientists found that nearly 90% of the total use of antimicrobials in the United States was for non-therapeutic purposes in agricultural production.\n\nCertain antibiotics, when given in low, sub-therapeutic doses, are known to improve feed conversion efficiency (more output, such as muscle or milk, for a given amount of feed) and may promote greater growth, most likely by affecting gut flora. The drugs listed below are used to increase feed conversion ratio and weight gain. Some drugs listed below are ionophores, which are not antibiotics and do not pose any potential risk to human health.\n\nConcentrated animal feeding operations (CAFO) refer to large, often multi-species, farming operations which lead to close animal housing quarters, rampant infections and disease, among many other malaises.\n\nThese animals are sedentary due to the lack of space in the cramped cages. They often catch disease due to the packed rooms and ease of transmission among the manure, blood and bodily fluids. The current justification for these conditions is the belief that due to the animals not roaming, they save energy, and therefore better digest their food; this energy is reserved for growth of the animals. \n\nThe large amounts of manure produced in cattle livestock populations are a problem for many CAFOs. Dependent on size of the operation, there can be 2,800 to 1.6 million tons of manure produced per year. Annually, the livestock population in the United States produces 3 to 20 times more manure than people. However, many operations lack ultimate sewage treatment.\n\nThe manure produced from concentrated populations of animals can be diseased and have negatives impact on the environment itself. Livestock manure can be tainted by blood, pathogens such as \"E. coli\", antibiotics, growth hormones, chemical additives, etc. Some of this manure can be treated and used as fertilizer by liquefying and spraying it, but larger operations often revert to storing it until it can be disposed of properly. Manure is also trucked off site, stored in containers, or held in holding ponds. There can be problems associated with storing manure; manure can have detrimental effects on the surrounding area due to leaking containers or holding ponds. This, known as \"manure leaching\", can lead to manure run-off affecting the ground or soil water by percolation or direct contamination.\n\nWhen manure run-off or percolation enters a water system, the infecting agents thrive in that environment. Previous studies have shown private well water in Idaho found high levels of veterinary antibiotics as well as additive chemicals. The surrounding areas of concentrated animal feeding operations are at particular risk for groundwater or soil water sources of contamination. When manure enters a water source, either underground or above ground, whatever pathogens inhabiting the manure enters the water as well. All the agents inside the manure can contaminate a water source. Pathogens survive longer in groundwater than surface water due to lower temperatures and protection from the sun and other harsher elements. Additionally, this water will not be treated until far later in the process, allowing bacterial colonies to grow.\n\nGroundwater is one of the larger sources of water that humans are supplied from. As of 2010, 53% of people in the United States relied on groundwater as their primary source of drinking water. Groundwater also gradually leads to surface waters, such as rivers and streams. Water as a contaminant is a major source of outbreak in human populations – the areas around concentrated animal feeding operations are typically at a higher risk of exposure to antibiotic-resistant bacteria strains and subsequent outbreaks.\n\nThe living conditions of animal feeding operations leads to a shotgun approach at targeting a sick population of livestock. Due to denser amounts of animals in smaller spaces, illness spreading and affecting a few animals can signal a precursor that more animals in an area will be infected by pathogens. In the United States, 80% of all antibiotics are given as feed additives. The antibiotics given to treat all the animals in dense area are not specific to each animal's illness and use a general approach to dosing. This leads to the antibiotics not being fully metabolized by the animals. This has been tested by levels of antibiotics still present in the manure of these animals.\n\nA vector, in this context, is an organism that transmits disease to another organism. Insects such as flies and mosquitoes have high amounts of breeding grounds and nests of eggs around manure waste, allowing rapid reproduction and fresh vectors for potential disease. Typically with dense populations of livestock, transmission of disease from one animal to another can be on account of insects, such as flies, mosquitoes or ticks, spreading blood from one animal to another. This can be particularly dangerous for sick animals spreading diseases to healthier animals, promoting general malaise in a concentrated area. Additionally, the animals can be infected from other animals' manure making contact with their food; fecal-oral transmission are one of the largest sources for pathogen transmission. Within concentrated animal farming operations, there is no mandatory testing of novel viruses, only reporting known illnesses to the World Organization for Animal Health. Thus, certain mutations or recombinant bacteria strains, which are more efficient in translation to human to human events, can be unnoticed.\n\nAdditionally, insect beds around manure pools or containers are a particular threat for contamination. These insects feed and reproduce in the runoff of treated manure, so they can acquire resistant strains of bacteria from blood and the manure of livestock treated with antibiotics. Since most manure holding ponds are on or near the sites of the operations, the insects are not far from livestock populations. These insects are also particularly dangerous because they can spread bacteria or other pathogens to humans by infecting human food. This is prevalent when treated manure is used as fertilizers of liquefied for spraying and as a result of the unsanitary handling of meat in kitchens.\n\nThe use of drugs in food animals is regulated in nearly all countries. Historically, this has been to prevent alteration or contamination of meat, milk, eggs and other products with toxins that are harmful to humans. Treating a sick animal with drugs may lead to some of those drugs remaining in the animal when it is slaughtered or milked. Scientific experiments provide data that shows how long a drug is present in the body of an animal and what the animal's body does to the drug. Of particular concern are drugs that may be passed into milk or eggs. By the use of \"drug withdrawal periods: before slaughter or the use of milk or eggs from treated animals, veterinarians and animal owners ensure that the meat, milk and eggs is free of contamination.\n\nBrazil is the world's largest exporter of beef. The government regulates antibiotic use in the cattle production industry.\n\nChina produces and consumes the most antibiotics of all countries. Antibiotic use has been measured by checking the water near factory farms in China as well as through animal feces. It was calculated that 38.5 million kg (or 84.9 million lbs) of antibiotics were used in China's swine and poultry production in 2012. The abuse of antibiotics caused severe pollution of soil and surface water in Northern China.\n\nIn 2012, U.S. News & World Report described the Chinese government's regulation of antibiotics in livestock production as \"weak\".\n\nIn 1999, the European Union (EU) implemented an antibiotic resistance monitoring program and a plan to phase out antibiotic use for the purposes of growth promotion by 2006. The European Union banned the use of antibiotics as growth agents starting on 1 January 2006 with Regulation (EC) No 1831/2003. In Germany, 1,734 tons of antimicrobial agents were used for animals in 2011 compared with 800 tons for humans. Sweden banned their use in 1986 and Denmark started cutting down drastically in 1994, now using 60% less. In the Netherlands, the use of antibiotics to treat diseases increased after the ban on its use for growth purposes in 2006.\n\nIn 2011, the European Parliament voted for a non-binding resolution that called for the end of pre-emptive use of antibiotics in livestock.\n\nA revised regulation on veterinary medicinal products, proposed in procedure 2014/0257/COD, would limit the use of antibiotics in prophylaxis and metaphylaxis. An agreement on the regulation between the Council of the European Union and the European Parliament was confirmed on 13 June 2018.\n\nIn 2011 the Indian government proposed a \"National policy for containment of antimicrobial resistance\". Other policies set schedules for requiring that food producing animals not be given antibiotics for a certain amount of time before their food goes to market. A study released by Centre for Science and Environment (CSE) on 30 July 2014 found antibiotic residues in chicken. This study claims that Indians are developing resistance to antibiotics – and hence falling prey to a host of otherwise curable ailments. Some of this resistance might be due to large-scale unregulated use of antibiotics in the poultry industry. CSE finds that India has not set any limits for antibiotic residues in chicken and says that India will have to implement a comprehensive set of regulations including banning of antibiotic use as growth promoters in the poultry industry. Not doing this will put lives of people at risk.\n\nIn 1999 the New Zealand government issued a statement that they would not then ban the use of antibiotics in livestock production. In 2007 ABC Online reported on antibiotic use in chicken production in New Zealand.\n\nIn 1998 some researchers reported use in livestock production was a factor in the high prevalence of antibiotic-resistant bacteria in Korea. In 2007 \"The Korea Times\" noted that Korea has relatively high usage of antibiotics in livestock production. In 2011, the Korean government banned the use of antibiotics as growth promoters in livestock.\n\nIn 1970 the FDA started recommending that antibiotic use in livestock be limited but set no actual regulations governing this recommendation. By 2001, the Union of Concerned Scientists estimated that greater than 70% of the antibiotics used in the U.S. are given to food animals (for example, chickens, pigs, and cattle), in the absence of disease.\n\nIn 2004 the Government Accountability Office (GAO) heavily critiqued the FDA for not collecting enough information and data on antibiotic use in factory farms. From this, the GAO concluded that the FDA does not have enough information to create effective policy changes regarding antibiotic use. In response, the FDA insisted that more research was being conducted and voluntary efforts within the industry would solve the problem of antibiotic resistance.\n\nFew policies exist that limit antibiotic use on factory farms, and some proposed legislation in the US has failed to be adopted. In 2007, two federal bills (S. 549 and H.R. 962) aimed to phase out nontherapeutic antibiotics in U.S. food animal production. The Senate bill, introduced by Sen Ted Kennedy, died. The House bill, introduced by Rep. Louise Slaughter, died after being referred to Committee. The U.S. Animal Drug User Fee Act was passed by Congress in 2008, requiring that drug manufacturers report all sales of antibiotics into the food animal production industry.\n\nBy 2011, a total of of antimicrobials were sold for use in food-producing animals in the United States, which represented 80% of all antibiotics sold or distributed in the United States. Of the antibiotics given to animals from 2009 through 2013, just above 60% distributed for food animal use are \"medically-important\" drugs that are also used in humans. The rest were drug classes like ionophores, which are not used in human medicine.\n\nIn March 2012, the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, ruling in an action brought by the Natural Resources Defense Council and others, ordered the FDA to revoke approvals for the use of antibiotics in livestock that violated FDA regulations. On 11 April 2012 the FDA announced a voluntary program to phase out unsupervised use of drugs as feed additives and convert approved over-the-counter uses for antibiotics to prescription use only, requiring veterinarian supervision of their use and a prescription. In December 2013, the FDA announced the commencement of these steps to phase out the use of antibiotics for the purposes of promoting livestock growth.\n\nNumerous state senators and members of congress showed support for the Preservation of Antibiotics for Medical Treatment Act of 2013 and Preventing Antibiotic Resistance Act of 2015. These acts proposed amendments be made to the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act which would limit and preserve the use of antibiotics for medically necessary situations. Both of these bills died in Congress in 2015.\n\nIn 2015, the FDA approved a new Veterinary Feed Directive (VFD), which is an updated guideline that give instructions to pharmaceutical companies, veterinarians, and producers about how to administer necessary drugs through the animal's feed and water. The FDA has asked drug companies to voluntarily edit its labels to exclude growth promotion as an indication for antibiotic usage. FDA regulations on off-label use prohibit using a drug off-label for non-therapeutic purposes, which would make using the re-labeled drug for growth enhancement illegal. Some drugs are also being re-classified from OTC to VFD; VFD drugs require a veterinarian's authorization before it can be delivered in feed. The new guidelines took effect on 1 January 2017.\n\nSome grocery stores have policies about voluntarily not selling meat produced by using antibiotics to stimulate growth. In response to consumer concerns about the use of antibiotics in poultry, Perdue removed all human antibiotics from its feed in 2007 and launched the Harvestland brand, under which it sold products that met the requirements for an \"antibiotic-free\" label. By 2014, Perdue had also phased out ionophores from its hatchery and began using the \"antibiotic free\" labels on its Harvestland, Simply Smart, and Perfect Portions products. By 2015, 52% of the company's chickens were raised without the use of any type of antibiotics.\n\nIn 2012 in the United States advocacy organization Consumers Union organized a petition asking the store Trader Joe's to discontinue the sale of meat produced with antibiotics.\n\nThere has been increased concern about the use of anti-microbials in animals (including pets, livestock, and companion animals) contributing to the rise in antibiotic-resistant infections in humans. Around 70% of all antibiotics administered are used for livestock. Some drugs are used in livestock feed to prevent illnesses and or increase growth rates, but others are used as treatment for illnesses. The use of antibiotics in livestock can bring antibiotic-resistant bacteria to humans via consumption of meat and ingestion through airborne bacteria. Manure from food-producing animals can also contain antibiotic-resistant bacteria and is sometimes stored in lagoons. This waste is often sprayed as fertilizer and can thus contaminate crops and water with the bacteria.\n\nThe World Health Organization has published a list, \"Critically Important Antimicrobials for Human Medicine\", with the intent that it be used \"as a reference to help formulate and prioritize risk assessment and risk management strategies for containing antimicrobial resistance due to human and non-human antimicrobial use.\"\n\nThe effects of antibiotic usage in livestock transferring to humans has been well documented for over 40 years. It was first documented in 1976, where a study followed a novel antibiotic being used in livestock. The bacteria in animals and workers were regularly followed to record translational effects. The findings revealed that within 2 weeks, the bacteria found in the guts of animals fed antibiotics were resistant to the new antibiotic. Additionally, the resistant bacteria had spread to farm's laborers within 6 months. The bacteria in the stool of the laborers were tested and contained more than 80% resistance to the initial antibiotic given to the livestock. Since the primary study, there have been many well-documented events showing that antibiotic usage in livestock results in direct influence of antibiotic resistance in humans.\n\nMajor bacterial infections in humans can be traced back to livestock. The family Enterobacteriaceae includes many opportunistic bacteria, including \"E. coli\", which are commonly found in livestock. Other bacteria include \"Klebsiella\" and \"Staphylococcus aureus\". They cause infections in the urinary tract, digestive system, skin, and bloodstream, and account for a significant portion of antibiotic-resistant bacterial infections.\n\nThe practice of using antibiotics for growth stimulation is problematic for these reasons:\n\n\nDonald Kennedy, former director of the FDA, has said \"There's no question that routinely administering non-therapeutic doses of antibiotics to food animals contributes to antibiotic resistance.\" David Aaron Kessler, another former director, stated, \"We have more than enough scientific evidence to justify curbing the rampant use of antibiotics for livestock, yet the food and drug industries are not only fighting proposed legislation to reduce these practices, they also oppose collecting the data.\"\n\nIn 2013, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) published a white paper discussing antibiotic resistance threats in the US and calling for \"improved use of antibiotics\" among other measures to contain the threat to human health. The CDC asked leaders in agriculture, healthcare, and other disciplines to work together to combat the issue of increasing antibiotic resistance.\n\nSome scientists have said that \"all therapeutic antimicrobial agents should be available only by prescription for human and veterinary use.\"\n\nThe Pew Charitable Trusts have stated that \"hundreds of scientific studies conducted over four decades demonstrate that feeding low doses of antibiotics to livestock breeds antibiotic-resistant superbugs that can infect people. The FDA, the U.S. Department of Agriculture and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention all testified before Congress that there is a definitive link between the routine, non-therapeutic use of antibiotics in food animal production and the challenge of antibiotic resistance in humans.\"\n\nHSBC produced a report in October 2018 warning that the use of antibiotics in meat production could have “devastating” consequences for humans. It noted that many dairy and meat producers in Asia and the Americas had an economic incentive to continue high usage of antibiotics, particularly in crowded or unsanitary living conditions.\n\nThe World Organisation for Animal Health has acknowledged the need to protect antibiotics but argued against a total ban on antibiotic use in animal production.\n\nIn 2011 the National Pork Producers Council, an American trade association, has said, \"Not only is there no scientific study linking antibiotic use in food animals to antibiotic resistance in humans, as the U.S. pork industry has continually pointed out, but there isn't even adequate data to conduct a study.\" The statement contradicts scientific consensus, and was issued in response to a United States Government Accountability Office report that asserts, \"Antibiotic use in food animals contributes to the emergence of resistant bacteria that may affect humans\".\n\nThe National Pork Board, a government-owned corporation of the United States, has said, \"The vast majority of producers use (antibiotics) appropriately.\"\n\nWhen government regulation restricts use of antibiotics, the negative economic impact is not often considered.\n\nRegulation of antibiotics in livestock production would affect the business models of corporations such as Tyson Foods, Cargill, and Hormel.\n\nIt is difficult to set up a comprehensive surveillance system for measuring rates of change in antibiotic resistance. The US Government Accountability Office published a report in 2011 stating that government and commercial agencies had not been collecting sufficient data to make a decision about best practices.\n\nCurrently, there is no regulatory agency in the United States that systematically collects detailed data on antibiotic use in humans and animals. It is not clear which antibiotics are prescribed for which purpose and at what time. Furthermore, the world has no surveillance infrastructure to monitor emerging antibiotic resistance threats. Because of these issues, it is difficult to quantify antibiotic resistance, to regulate antibiotic prescribing practices, and to detect and respond to rising threats.\n\nAt this time, the most well-documented impact on humans is foodborne gastrointestinal illness. In most cases, these illnesses are mild and do not require antibiotics; though if the infectious bacteria is drug-resistant, they have increased virulence (ability to cause disease) and lead to prolonged illness. Furthermore, in approximately 10% of cases, the disease becomes severe, requiring more advanced treatments. These treatments can take the form of intravenous antibiotics, supportive care for blood infections, and hospital stays, leading to higher costs and greater morbidity, with a trend toward higher mortality. Though all people are susceptible, populations at higher risk for severe disease include children, the elderly, and those with chronic disease.\n\nOver the past 20 years, the most common drug-resistant foodborne bacteria in industrialized countries have been non-typhoidal \"Salmonella\" and \"Campylobacter\". Research has consistently shown the main contributing factors are bacteria sourced in livestock. A 1998 outbreak of multidrug-resistant \"Salmonella\" in Denmark linked back to two Danish swine herds. Coupled with the discovery of this link, there have been improved monitoring systems that have helped to quantify the impact. In the United States, it is estimated that there are approximately 400,000 cases and over 35,000 hospitalizations per year attributable to increasing resistant strains of \"Salmonella\" and \"Campylobacter\". In terms of financial impact in the US, the treatment of non-typhoidal \"Salmonella\" infections alone is now estimated to cost $365 million per year. In light of this, in its inaugural 2013 report on antibiotic resistance threats in the United States, the CDC identified resistant non-typhoidal \"Salmonella\" and \"Campylobacter\" as \"serious threats\" and called for improved surveillance and intervention in food production moving forward.\n\nThere are other bacteria as well, where research is evolving and revealing that bacterial resistance acquired through use in livestock may be contributing to disease in humans. Examples of these include Enterococcus (including \"E. coli\" 0157) and \"Staphylococcus aureus\". For foodborne illness from \"E. coli\", which is still not typically treated with antibiotics because of associated risk of renal failure, increasing rates of antibiotic-resistant infections have been correlated with increasing virulence of the bacteria. In the case of Enterococcus and \"S. aureus\", resistant forms of both of these bacteria have resulted in greatly increasing morbidity and mortality in the US. At this point, there have been studies, though a limited number, that definitively link antibiotic use in food production to these resistance patterns in humans and further research will help to further characterize this relationship.\n\nThe amounts given are termed \"sub-therapeutic\", i.e., insufficient to combat disease. Despite no diagnosis of disease, the administration of these drugs result in decreased mortality and morbidity and increased growth in the animals so treated. It is theorized that sub-therapeutic dosages kills some, but not all, of the bacterial organisms in the animal – likely leaving those that are naturally antibiotic-resistant. The actual mechanism by which sub-therapeutic antibiotic feed additives serve as growth promoters is thus unclear. Some people have speculated that animals and fowl may have sub-clinical infections, which would be cured by low levels of antibiotics in feed, thereby allowing the creatures to thrive.\n\nHumans can be exposed to antibiotic-resistant bacteria by ingesting them through the food supply. Dairy products, ground beef, and poultry are the most common foods harboring these pathogens. There is evidence that a large proportion of resistant \"E. coli\" isolates causing blood stream infections in people are from livestock produced as food.\n\nWhen manure from antibiotic-fed swine is used as fertilizer elsewhere, the manure may be contaminated with bacteria which can infect humans.\n\nStudies have also shown that direct contact with livestock can lead to the spread of antibiotic-resistant bacteria from animals to humans.\n\nSampling of retail meats such as turkey, chicken, pork and beef consistently show high levels of Enterobacteriaceae. Rates of resistant bacteria in these meats are high as well. Sources on contaminated meat put humans at direct risk by handling the meat or ingesting it before it is completely cooked. Ingesting contaminated meat sources accounts for 20% of antibiotic-resistant infections in humans. Food preservation methods can help eliminate, decrease, or prevent the growth of bacteria. Evidence for the transfer of macrolide-resistant microorganisms from animals to humans has been scant, and most evidence shows that pathogens of concern in human populations originated in humans and are maintained there, with rare cases of transference to humans.\n\nIncreasing concern due to the emergence of antibiotic-resistant bacteria has led researchers to look for alternatives to using antibiotics in livestock.\n\nProbiotics, cultures of a single bacteria strain or mixture of different strains, are being studied in livestock as a production enhancer.\n\nPrebiotics are non-digestible carbohydrates. The carbohydrates are mainly made up of oligosaccharides which are short chains of monosaccharides. The two most commonly studied prebiotics are fructooligosaccharides (FOS) and mannanoligosaccharides (MOS). FOS has been studied for use in chicken feed. MOS works as a competitive binding site, as bacteria bind to it rather than the intestine and are carried out.\n\nBacteriophages are able to infect most bacteria and are easily found in most environments colonized by bacteria, and have been studied as well.\n\nIn another study it was found that using probiotics, competitive exclusion, enzymes, immunomodulators and organic acids prevents the spread of bacteria and can all be used in place of antibiotics. Another research team was able to use bacteriocins, antimicrobial peptides and bacteriophages in the control of bacterial infections. While further research is needed in this field, alternative methods have been identified in effectively controlling bacterial infections in animals. All of the alternative methods listed pose no known threat to human health and all can lead the elimination of antibiotics in factory farms. With further research it is highly likely that a cost effective and health effective alternative could and will be found.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1090911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1090911", "title": "Aquarius Festival", "text": "Aquarius Festival\n\nThe Nimbin Aquarius Festival was a counter-cultural arts and music festival organised by the Australian Union of Students. It was the fourth in a biannual series of festivals, first organised by the National Union of Australian University Students (NUAUS). The First Australian Universities Arts Festival was held in Sydney in 1967, and the Second Australian Universities Arts Festival was held in Melbourne in 1969. The third added \"Aquarius\" to its name and was held in Canberra in 1971. The fourth and last was held in Nimbin, New South Wales in 1973.\n\nThe Aquarius Festival aimed to celebrate alternative thinking and sustainable lifestyles. The ten-day event was held from 12 to 23 May 1973 and co-directed by Johnny Allen and Graeme Dunstan. Vernon Treweeke also played a part in organising the event. It is often described as Australia's equivalent to the Woodstock Festival and the birthplace for Australia's hippie movement. Estimated turn-up at Nimbin was from 5,000 to 10,000 people.\n\nPerformers at the festival included the White Company - an experimental Theatre Troupe featuring a number of alternative culture artists including Peter Carolan - singer Paul Joseph, Donny McCormack (ex-Nutwood Rug Band), The Larrikins and Ian Farr. Also appearing were the South African pianist Dollar Brand (later known as Abdullah Ibrahim), and tightrope walker and unicyclist Philippe Petit, who gained worldwide fame the following year by walking between the rooftops of the Twin Towers at the World Trade Center.\n\nThe festival had a permanent effect on the economy of Nimbin, as many Festival participants decided to remain in the district The area was previously a dairying and banana growing region in severe decline. Some of those that stayed might be defined as hippies, but in fact the larger percentage came from all sorts of backgrounds and life experience, ranging from 18 to 80.\n\nOne group pooled resources after the Nimbin Aquarius Festival and bought a then property at Tuntable Falls in the next valley east, below Mount Nardi, and formed a community called the \"Co-Ordination Co-Operative\". Other groups followed suit and formed communes that continue today. Examples include Paradise Valley Pastoral Company and Nmbngee.\n\nWhile \"Multiple Occupancy\" was basically a cheap housing alternative, there were some self-described spiritual communities that shared particular values, like Bodhi Farm and Darmananda, but they tended to be closer to the neighbouring The Channon and Terania Creek than Nimbin.\n\nMullumbimby and Byron Bay attracted more of the moneyed \"New Age\" people, while Nimbin attracted impecunious wanderers and back-packers. Within a decade the \"Aquarians\" were outnumbered by the continuing flow of disaffected urbanites and tree-changers coming into the area.\n\nInterviews were conducted in 1992 documenting the alternative lifestyle movement of Northern NSW in the 1970s focusing on the town of Nimbin and the 1973 Aquarius Festival. Interviewees discussed how they arrived in Nimbin, their efforts in organising the Aquarius Festival, and the lasting impact the Festival had on the township.\n\nAt the 10th anniversary of the Aquarius Festival, the Australian Association of Sustainable Communities (AASC) was formed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21427346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21427346", "title": "Collapse of the Atlantic northwest cod fishery", "text": "Collapse of the Atlantic northwest cod fishery\n\nIn 1992 the Canadian Federal Minister of Fisheries and Oceans, John Crosbie, declared a moratorium on the Northern Cod fishery, which for the preceding 500 years had largely shaped the lives and communities of Canada's eastern coast. Fishing societies interplay with the resources which they depend on: fisheries transform the ecosystem, which pushes the fishery and society to adapt. In the summer of 1992, when the Northern Cod biomass fell to 1% of earlier levels, Canada's federal government saw that this relationship had been pushed to the breaking point, and declared a moratorium, ending the region's 500-year run with the Northern Cod.\n\nObservations on the reduced number and size of cod, and concerns of fishermen and marine biologists was offered, but generally ignored in favour of the uncertain science and harmful federal policies of Canada's Department of Fisheries and Oceans until the undeniable complete collapse of the fishery. According to any reasonable analysis, the collapse was first due to massive overfishing. Second, the dependence for maintenance of the fishery itself on the nutrient cycle that was being disrupted by removal of megatons of biomass from a closed system resulted in the starvation of the residual fish. Academics have highlighted these following four contributing factors in the eventual collapse of the cod fishery.\n\nA major factor that contributed to the depletion of the cod stocks off the shores of Newfoundland included the introduction and proliferation of equipment and technology that increased the volume of landed fish. For centuries local fishermen used technology that limited the volume of their catch, the area they fished, and let them target specific species and ages of fish. From the 1950s onwards, as was common in all industries at the time, new technology was introduced that allowed fishermen to trawl a larger area, fish to a deeper depth and for a longer time. By the 1960s, powerful trawlers equipped with radar, electronic navigation systems and sonar allowed crews to pursue fish with unparalleled success, and Canadian catches peaked in the late 1970s and early 1980s.\nThe new technologies adversely affected the northern cod population in two important ways: by increasing the area and depth that was fished, the cod were being depleted until the surviving fish could not replenish the stock lost each year; and secondly, the trawlers caught enormous amounts of non-commercial fish, which were economically unimportant but very important ecologically: incidental catch undermines the whole ecosystem, depleting stocks of important predator and prey species. With the northern cod, significant amounts of capelin – an important prey species for the cod – were caught as bycatch, further undermining the survival of the remaining cod stock.\n\nAnother factor important to consider in understanding the fishery's collapse is uncertainty in assessing the cod as a resource. Management of a resource is an extremely complex task, with a multitude of interests, perspectives, and sources of information to take into account; when knowledge regarding the resource is limited, or clouded by imprecision, the task of managing it becomes even more difficult. The management of fisheries is associated with an especially high degree of uncertainty due to problems inherent in the nature of the resource. Newfoundland's cod fisheries were no exception: an imperfect understanding of the ocean ecosystem; technical and environmental challenges associated with observation techniques, which led to incomplete data on the resource (the cod); and the naturally high levels of variability in the population due to dynamic environmental factors (such as ocean temperature) combined to make it arduous to discern the effects of exploitation. Unfortunately, this led to predictions about the cod stock that were mired in uncertainty, making it more difficult for the government to choose the appropriate course of action.\n\nIn addition to ecological considerations, decisions regarding the future of the fisheries were also influenced by social and economic factors. Throughout Atlantic Canada, but especially in Newfoundland, the cod fishery was a source of social and cultural identity. For many families, it also represented their livelihood: most families were connected either directly or indirectly with the fishery as fishermen, fish plant workers, fish sellers, fish transporters, or as employees in related businesses. Additionally, many companies, both foreign and domestic, as well as individuals, had invested heavily in the boats, equipment and the infrastructure of the fishery, and therefore felt it was in their best interest to maintain an open-access policy to the ocean and its resources. This alludes to the unfortunate paradox that often accompanies open-access resources and is known by most as the Tragedy of the Commons: what is in the individual's best interest is not always in the best interest of a society at whole. In the case of Newfoundland and the northern cod fishery this meant that from the perspective of the individual participating in the fishing industry, maximizing their catch was in their best interest; however when the government failed to intervene – due largely to the highly sensitive nature of the political discourse created by the expansive group of stakeholders – the ecosystem was brought past its threshold and collapsed, leaving everyone worse off.\n\nNewfoundland's fishery fell under the management of the Department of Fisheries and Oceans in 1949, when Newfoundland joined Canada as a province. Unfortunately, the department mismanaged the resource and allowed overfishing. Even today, should international fishing and exploitation of the residual resource resume in force, Canada has no capacity at all to enforce or police any limits to the practices of foreign fishing activity. Canada also has no policy plan, nor naval capacity to guard its own territorial rights and resources.\n\nThe number of fishing trawlers in the 1960s increased, and inshore fishermen complained to the government. This resulted in the government redefining the offshore fishery boundaries several times, and eventually extended its limits from 3 mi to 200 mi offshore, as part of its claim for an exclusive economic zone under the UNCLOS. In 1976, the government declared the right to manage the fisheries in an exclusive economic zone that extended to 200 mi offshore. The government wanted to reverse declining fish stocks by removing foreign fishing within the new inshore fishery boundaries. With the absence of foreign fishing many Canadian and U.S fishing trawlers took their place and the number of cod kept diminishing past a point of recovery.\n\nMany local fishermen noticed the drastic decrease of cod and tried to inform local government officials. In 1986, scientists did a review of calculations and data after which they determined, in order to conserve cod fishing the total allowable catch rate had to be cut in half. However, even with these new statistics brought to light no changes were made in regards to the allotted yearly catch of cod.\n\nWith only a limited knowledge of cod biology, scientists predicted that the population of the species would rebound from its low point in 1975 and when Canada extended its fishing boundaries in 1976, fish mortality decreased immediately. This was not due to a rise in cod stocks, it was because foreign trawlers could no longer fish the waters. Therefore, when Fisheries and Oceans set quotas, they overestimated the total stock, and increased the total allowable catch.\n\nIn 1992, John Crosbie, the minister of Fisheries and Oceans at the time, set the quota for cod at 187,969 tonnes, even though only 129,033 tonnes had been caught the previous year. That same year, the government announced a moratorium on cod fishing.\n\nWhen the government finally acted, it was too late. The 1992 moratorium was at first meant to last two years, hoping that the northern cod population would recover, and along with it the fishery. The damage done to Newfoundland's coastal ecosystem proved irreversible. Even after twenty years, the northern cod population has not rebounded and the cod fishery remains closed.\n\nApproximately 35,000 fishermen and fish plant workers lost their jobs due to the collapse of the cod fisheries, many people had to find new jobs or further their education to be able to find jobs. It was devastating for many communities and certainly impacted Newfoundland in a profound way. Local fisherman noticed the decrease of fish, however, scientists reported otherwise. New technologies, such as trawlers, had made this possible and more fish were being caught than ever before, which was chalked up to the stock \"growing\".\n\nThe collapse of the northern cod fishery marked a profound change in the ecological, economic and socio-cultural structure of Atlantic Canada. The moratorium in 1992 marked the largest industrial closure in Canadian history, and it was expressed most acutely in Newfoundland, whose continental shelf lay under the region most heavily fished. Over 35,000 fishermen and plant workers from over 400 coastal communities became unemployed. In response to dire warnings of social and economic consequences, the federal government intervened, initially providing income assistance through the Northern Cod Adjustment and Recovery Program, and later through the Atlantic Groundfish Strategy, which included money specifically for the retraining of those workers displaced by the closing of the fishery. Newfoundland has since experienced a dramatic environmental, industrial, economic, and social restructuring, including considerable emigration, but also increased economic diversification, an increased emphasis on education, and the emergence of a thriving invertebrates fishing industry (as the predatory groundfish population declined, snow crab and northern shrimp proliferated, providing the basis for a new industry that is roughly equivalent in economic value to the cod fishery it replaced).\n\nInspired by the Grand Banks cod fishery collapse, the Marine Stewardship Council was founded in 1997 to set global standards for sustainable fishing.\n\nIn November 2006, Fisheries and Oceans Canada released an article suggesting that the unexpectedly slow recovery of the cod stock was due to inadequate food supplies, cooling of the North Atlantic, and a poor genetic stock due to the overfishing of larger cod. During the summer of 2011, a study was announced that showed East Coast cod stocks around Nova Scotia showed promises of recovery, despite earlier thoughts of complete collapse. It was found that initial stages of recovery began around 2005, though more time and studies were needed to study the long-term stability of the stock increase. In addition, in 2010 a study by the Northwest Atlantic Fisheries Organization found that stocks in the Grand Banks near Newfoundland and Labrador had recovered by 69% since 2007, though that number only equated to 10% of the original stock.\n\nIn a letter to \"Nature\" in 2011, a team of Canadian scientists reported that cod in the Scotian Shelf ecosystem off Canada were showing signs of recovery. Brian Petrie, a member of the team, said \"Cod is about a third of the way to full recovery, and haddock is already back to historical biomass levels\". Despite such positive reports, cod landings continued to decline since 2009 according to Fisheries and Oceans Canada statistics through 2012.\n\nIn 2015, two reports on cod fishery recovery offered hopeful and cautionary messages. A Canadian scientist reported that in particular areas, cod were increasing in numbers, health, normalising in maturity and behaviour, and offered a promising estimate of increased biomass. However, past assessments of \"cod stock\" had been greatly overestimated by generalisation beyond areas measured, which was a great part of the incompetent policymaking and mismanagement of the Canadian Department of Fisheries and Oceans. A US report suggested that a failure to consider reduced resilience of cod populations due to increased mortality in warming surface water of the Gulf of Maine had led to overfishing despite regulation. Thus, overestimates of stock biomass due to generalisation of local estimates, and ignorance of environmental factors in growth or recovery potential of a cod fishery would lead to mismanagement and further collapse of stocks, through further unsustainable quotas, as in the past.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2768176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2768176", "title": "Common operational picture", "text": "Common operational picture\n\nA commander's headquarters is typically responsible for ensuring that the appropriate information is presented to the commander, so that he can make the best command decisions. Traditionally, headquarters prepares maps with various symbols to show the locations of friendly and enemy troops and other relevant information. In the modern military, the COP is prepared electronically by a command and control battle command system (e.g. Army Battle Command System).\n\nBeyond planning, a COP enables effective, dynamic execution. The term \"Common\" means it applies to all involved, from highest commander to the lowest soldier to the attached airman. \"Operational\" refers to actual, preferably in real-time, status and developments (which rarely fit the plan generated days/hours/moments ago) and it also refers to being at the operational planning level which is a summation and summary of many tactical scales and not of the broader, strategic level. \"Picture\" refers to a single, combined, graphics, visual representation of the environment, forces, and actions. Taken together, a COP enables both the lowest soldier and highest commander to independently and immediately sense and act in a collaborative fashion to achieve the predefined mission and commanders intent. An example of such a tool is ATAK.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59098548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59098548", "title": "Comédie de Port-au-Prince", "text": "Comédie de Port-au-Prince\n\nThe Comédie de Port-au-Prince, also called \"Salle Mesplés\", was a theater in Port-au-Prince in Saint-Domingue, active from 1778 to 1791. \n\nThe city of Port-au-Prince had been founded as the official capital of the colony in 1750. At this point, theater and music was immensely popular in the colony and frequented by most free people of all races and classes, and public theaters existed in not only Cap-Francais but also in smaller towns such as the theaters of Mlle Marthe and Mlle Francheville in Saint-Marc (1769-1802), Monsieur Passete in Leogane (1760s) and Monsieur Charpentier in Les Cayes (1765-88), and it was considered necessary to have one in the new capital city. \n\nIn 1762, a first theater was managed by the three joint-directors Rouzier, Claude Clement and Charpentier, but it did not last. A permanent theater was finnally established by the theater director Francois Mesplete (d. 1784), who founded the Comédie de Port-au-Prince in 1778. It was a playhouse with room for 750 people. The theater offerred regular performances of drama, opera and music concerts until the Haitian Revolution of 1791, and became an important cultural center. \n\nThe theater employed a stock company of eight actors, eight actresses, eleven musicians, a prompter, a stage manager, a decorator, a tailor, a hairdresser, four porters and a clerk. Francois Mesplete was succeeded in 1784 by Monsieur Acquaire, whose wife the singer-actress Madame Acquaire (previously Mlle Babet) had been a director of the local amateur theater in Gonaive, are known as the mentor of the famous Minette et Lise. Another star attraction of the theater was the violinist Monsieur Petit. \n\nAfter the outbreak of the Haitian Revolution, Acquaire resigned his position as director to Monsieur Blainville and joined his wife in France. Blainville attempted to use the theater as a venue to reconcile the tensions of the colony during the revolution, an attempt which was well received as the activity of the theater was reportedly in full operation right up until the night of the 22 November 1791, when Port-au-Prince was attacked and burnt, during which the theater was among the buildings destroyed. \n\n"}
{"id": "55071810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55071810", "title": "Day of the founding of the German Empire", "text": "Day of the founding of the German Empire\n\nThe Day of the founding of the German Empire (German: \"Reichsgründungstag\") was an annual celebration on the anniversary of the proclamation of the German Empire on 18 January 1871 in the Palace of Versailles. \n\nThe North German Confederation had already officially adopted the name \"German Reich\" in its Constitution by 1 January 1871, so constitutionally speaking, 18 January was not the day of the founding. \nCelebrations were held annually on 18 January. At centralised and local events, patriotic speeches were held and songs such as \"Heil dir im Siegerkranz\", the unofficial anthem of the empire were sung. Celebrations also took place publicly during the Weimar Republic (1919-1933) and with the participation of high dignitaries. Nazi Germany only celebrated the founding of the German Empire in 1871.\n\nEast Germany completely abolished this custom. On 18 January 1971, West Germany issued a motif of special stamps for the 100th anniversary of the founding of the Empire on 30 Pfennig stamps (Michel catalogue 658 and 385) designed by the \"Deutsche Bundespost Berlin\". This corresponded to the rate for a standard letter at the time. On 24 November 1971, a commemorative coin was struck with a nominal value of five Deutsche Marks which paid tribute to the same event.\n\nSome adherents of the political right continued this tradition. Also, some student connections celebrated \"Reichsgründungskneipen\" (Imperial Founding Pubs).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "564204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=564204", "title": "Esports", "text": "Esports\n\nEsports (also known as electronic sports, e-sports, or eSports) is a form of competition using video games. Most commonly, esports takes the form of organized, multiplayer video game competitions, particularly between professional players. Although organized online and offline competitions have long been a part of video game culture, these were largely between amateurs until the late 2000s, when participation by professional gamers and spectatorship in these events through live streaming saw a large surge in popularity. By the 2010s, esports was a significant factor in the video game industry, with many game developers actively designing toward a professional esports subculture.\n\nThe most common video game genres associated with esports are real-time strategy (RTS), first-person shooter (FPS), fighting and multiplayer online battle arena (MOBA). Popular games for esports include \"League of Legends\", \"Dota 2\", \"\", \"Call of Duty\", \"Hearthstone\", \"Overwatch\", \"Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Siege\", \"PlayerUnknown's Battlegrounds\", \"Fortnite Battle Royale\", and \"StarCraft II\". Tournaments such as the \"League of Legends\" World Championship, \"Dota 2\" The International, the fighting games-specific Evolution Championship Series, and the Intel Extreme Masters provide live broadcasts of the competition and prize money to competitors. Many competitions use a series of promotion and relegation play with sponsored teams, such as the \"League of Legends\" World Championship, but more recently, competitions structured similar to American professional sports, with salaried players and regular season and play-off series, have emerged, such as the Overwatch League. The legitimacy of esports as a sports competition remains in question; however, esports has been featured alongside traditional sports in multinational events, and the International Olympic Committee has explored incorporating them into future Olympic events.\n\nBy 2019, it is estimated that 427 million people worldwide will be watching some form of esports. The increasing availability of online streaming media platforms, particularly Panda.tv, YouTube and Twitch.tv, has become central to the growth and promotion of esports competitions. Demographically, Major League Gaming has reported viewership that is approximately 85% male and 15% female, with a majority of viewers between the ages of 18 and 34. Despite this, several female personalities within esports are hopeful about the increasing presence of female gamers. South Korea has several established esports organizations, which have licensed pro gamers since the year 2000. Recognition of esports competitions outside of South Korea has come somewhat slower. Along with South Korea, most competitions take place in Europe, North America and China. Despite its large video game market, esports in Japan is relatively underdeveloped, and this has been attributed largely to its broad anti-gambling laws which prohibit paid professional gaming tournaments.\n\nThe global esports market generated US$325 million of revenue in 2015 and was expected to make $493 million in 2016. The global esports audience in 2015 was 226 million people. According to a Newzoo report in April 2017, 42% of the gaming market belongs to the mobile industry, and mobile is projected to claim more than 50% the market by 2020. The esports industry is expanding beyond PC and console, as developer Super Evil Megacorp created Vainglory, the first mobile multiplayer online battle arena game, and companies like Skillz bring esports tournaments to mobile games.\n\nThe earliest known video game competition took place on 19 October 1972 at Stanford University for the game \"Spacewar\". Stanford students were invited to an \"Intergalactic spacewar olympics\" whose grand prize was a year's subscription for \"Rolling Stone\", with Bruce Baumgart winning the five-man-free-for-all tournament and Tovar and Robert E. Maas winning the Team Competition. The Space Invaders Championship held by Atari in 1980 was the earliest large scale video game competition, attracting more than 10,000 participants across the United States, establishing competitive gaming as a mainstream hobby.\n\nIn the summer of 1980, Walter Day founded a high score record keeping organization called Twin Galaxies. The organization went on to help promote video games and publicize its records through publications such as the Guinness Book of World Records, and in 1983 it created the U.S. National Video Game Team. The team was involved in competitions, such as running the Video Game Masters Tournament for Guinness World Records and sponsoring the North American Video Game Challenge tournament.\n\nDuring the 1970s and 1980s, video game players and tournaments began being featured in well-circulated newspapers and popular magazines including \"Life\" and \"Time\". One of the most well known classic arcade game players is Billy Mitchell, who was credited with the records for high scores in six games including \"Pac-Man\" and \"Donkey Kong\" in the 1985 issue of the Guinness Book of World Records. Some of those records would be removed in 2018 amid allegations of fraud.\n\nTelevised esports events aired during this period included the American show \"Starcade\" which ran between 1982 and 1984 airing a total of 133 episodes, on which contestants would attempt to beat each other's high scores on an arcade game. A video game tournament was included as part of TV show \"That's Incredible!\", and tournaments were also featured as part of the plot of various films, including 1982's \"Tron\". In the UK, the BBC game show First Class included competitive video game rounds featuring the contemporary arcade games Hyper Sports, 720° and Paperboy.\n\nIn the 1990s, many games benefited from increasing internet connectivity, especially PC games. For example, the 1988 game \"Netrek\" was an Internet game for up to 16 players, written almost entirely in cross-platform open source software. \"Netrek\" was the third Internet game, the first Internet game to use metaservers to locate open game servers, and the first to have persistent user information. In 1993 it was credited by \"Wired Magazine\" as \"the first online sports game\".\n\nLarge esports tournaments in the 1990s include the 1990 Nintendo World Championships, which toured across the United States, and held its finals at Universal Studios Hollywood in California. Nintendo held a 2nd World Championships in 1994 for the Super Nintendo Entertainment System called the Nintendo PowerFest '94. There were 132 finalists that played in the finals in San Diego, California. Mike Iarossi took home 1st prize. Blockbuster Video also ran their own World Game Championships in the early 1990s, co-hosted by GamePro magazine. Citizens from the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, Australia, and Chile were eligible to compete. Games from the 1994 championships included \"NBA Jam\" and \"Virtua Racing\".\n\nTelevision shows featuring esports during this period included the British shows \"GamesMaster\" and \"Bad Influence!\" the Australian game show \"A*mazing\", where in one round contestants competed in a video game face off, and the Canadian game show Video & Arcade Top 10.\n\nTournaments established in the late 1990s include the Cyberathlete Professional League (CPL), QuakeCon, and the Professional Gamers League. PC games played at the CPL included the \"Counter-Strike\" series, \"Quake\" series, and \"Warcraft\".\n\nThe growth of esports in South Korea is thought to have been influenced by the mass building of broadband internet networks following the 1997 Asian financial crisis. It is also thought that the high unemployment rate at the time caused many people to look for things to do while out of work. Instrumental to this growth of esports in South Korea was the prevalence of the Komany-style internet café/LAN gaming center, known as a PC bang. The Korean e-Sports Association, an arm of the Ministry of Culture, Sports and Tourism, was founded in 2000 to promote and regulate esports in the country.\n\nDuring the 2010s, esports grew tremendously, incurring a large increase in both viewership and prize money. Although large tournaments were founded before the 21st century, the number and scope of tournaments has increased significantly, going from about 10 tournaments in 2000 to about 260 in 2010. Many successful tournaments were founded during this period, including the World Cyber Games, the Intel Extreme Masters, and Major League Gaming. The proliferation of tournaments included experimentation with competitions outside traditional esports genres. For example, the September 2006 FUN Technologies Worldwide Webgames Championship featured 71 contestants competing in casual games for a $1 million grand prize.\n\nIn April 2006 the G7 teams federation were formed by seven prominent \"Counter-Strike\" teams. The goal of the organization was to increase stability in the esports world, particularly in standardizing player transfers and working with leagues and organizations. The founding members were 4Kings, Fnatic, Made in Brazil, Mousesports, NiP, SK-Gaming, Team 3D. The organization only lasted until 2009 before dissolving.\n\nThe 2000s was a popular time for televised esports. Television coverage was best established in South Korea, with \"StarCraft\" and \"Warcraft III\" competitions regularly televised by dedicated 24-hour cable TV game channels Ongamenet and MBCGame. Elsewhere, esports television coverage was sporadic. The German GIGA Television covered esports until its shutdown in 2009. The United Kingdom satellite television channel XLEAGUE.TV broadcast esports competitions from 2007 to 2009. The online esports only channel ESL TV briefly attempted a paid television model renamed GIGA II from June 2006 to autumn 2007. The French channel Game One broadcast esports matches in a show called \"Arena Online\" for the Xfire Trophy. The United States channel ESPN hosted \"Madden NFL\" competitions in a show called \"Madden Nation\" from 2005 to 2008. DirecTV broadcast the Championship Gaming Series tournament for two seasons in 2007 and 2008. CBS aired prerecorded footage of the 2007 World Series of Video Games tournament that was held in Louisville, Kentucky. The G4 television channel originally covered video games exclusively, but broadened its scope to cover technology and men's lifestyle, though has now shutdown.\n\nThe popularity and emergence of online streaming services have helped the growth of esports in this period, and are the most common method of watching tournaments. Twitch, an online streaming platform launched in 2011, routinely streams popular esports competitions. In 2013, viewers of the platform watched 12 billion minutes of video on the service, with the two most popular Twitch broadcasters being \"League of Legends\" and \"Dota 2\". During one day of The International, Twitch recorded 4.5 million unique views, with each viewer watching for an average of two hours.\n\nThe modern esports boom has also seen a rise in video games companies embracing the esports potential of their products. After many years of ignoring and at times suppressing the esports scene, Nintendo hosted Wii Games Summer 2010. Spanning over a month, the tournament had over 400,000 participants, making it the largest and most expansive tournament in the company's history. In 2014 Nintendo hosted an invitational \"Super Smash Bros. for Wii U\" competitive tournament at the 2014 Electronic Entertainment Expo (E3) press conference that was streamed online on Twitch. Halo developers 343 Industries announced in 2014 plans to revive Halo as an eSport with the creation of the Halo Championship Series and a prize pool of $50,000 USD. Both Blizzard Entertainment and Riot Games have their own collegiate outreach programs with their North American Collegiate Championship. Since 2013 universities and colleges in the United States such as Robert Morris University Illinois and the University of Pikeville have recognized esports players as varsity level athletes and offer athletic scholarships. In 2017, Tespa, Blizzard Entertainment's collegiate esports division, unveiled its new initiative to provide scholarships and prizes for collegiate esports clubs competing in its tournaments worth US$1 million. Colleges have began granting scholarships to students who qualify to play esports professionally for the school. Colleges such as Columbia College, Robert Morris University, and Indiana Institute of Technology have taken part in this. In 2018, Harrisburg University of Science and Technology began a tuition scholarship program for esports players.\n\nIn 2014, the largest independent esports league, Electronic Sports League, partnered with the local brand Japan Competitive Gaming to try and grow esports in the country.\n\nPhysical viewership of esports competitions and the scope of events have increased in tandem with the growth of online viewership. In 2013, the Season 3 League of Legends World Championship was held in a sold-out Staples Center. The 2014 League of Legends World Championship in Seoul, South Korea, had over 40,000 fans in attendance and featured the band \"Imagine Dragons\", and opening and closing ceremonies in addition to the competition.\n\nIn 2015, the first Esports Arena was launched in Santa Ana, California, as the United States' first dedicated esports facility. In 2018, the Luxor Las Vegas will open the first esports Arena on the Las Vegas Strip and additional locations are planned to open in the coming decade.\n\nIn most esports, organized play is centered around the use of promotion and relegation to move sponsored teams between leagues within the competition's organization based on how the team fared in matches; this follows patterns of professional sports in European and Asian countries. However, with rising interest in viewership of esports, some companies sought to create leagues that followed the approach used in North American professional sports, in which all teams participate in a regular season of matches to vie for top standing as to participate in the post-season games. This approach is more attractive for larger investors, who would be more willing to back a team that remains playing in the eSport's premiere league and not threatened to be relegated to a lower standing.\n\nBlizzard Entertainment announced the Overwatch League, based on its \"Overwatch\" game, in 2016, with its inaugural regular season featuring twelve teams starting in January 2018. Players that get contracts to play on teams are guaranteed an annual salary and benefits, as well as sharing of the team's revenue and prize winnings; the first season had a total prize pool of available, with to the team winning in post-season.\n\nTake-Two Interactive partnered with the National Basketball Association (NBA) to create the NBA 2K League, using the \"NBA 2K\" game series. It is the first esports league to be operated by a professional sports league, and the NBA sought to have a League team partially sponsored by each of the 30 professional NBA teams. Its inaugural season is set to start May 2018 with 17 teams. Similarly, EA Sports and Major League Soccer (MLS) established the eMLS, an eSport league using EA's \"FIFA 18\"; in its inaugural season, 19 of the 23 MLS teams will manage teams for the eMLS.\n\nLabeling video games as sports is a controversial point of debate. While some point to the growth in popularity of esports as justification for designating some games as sports, others contend that video games will never reach the status of \"true sports\". However popularity is not the only reason identified: some have argued that \"careful planning, precise timing, and skillful execution\" ought to be what classifies an activity as sport, and that physical exertion and outdoor playing areas are not required by all traditional or non-traditional \"sports\". In a 2014 technology conference, when asked about the recent buyout of popular game streaming service Twitch, ESPN president John Skipper described esports as \"not a sport – [they're] a competition.\" In 2013 on an episode of Real Sports with Bryant Gumbel the panelist openly laughed at the topic. In addition, many in the fighting games community maintain a distinction between their competitive gaming competitions and the more commercially connected esports competitions of other genres. Video games are sometimes classified as a mind sport. In the 2015 World Championship hosted by the International Esports Federation, an esports panel was hosted with guests from international sports society to discuss the future recognition of esports as a recognized, legitimate sporting activity worldwide.\n\nIn 2013, Canadian \"League of Legends\" player Danny \"Shiphtur\" Le became the first pro gamer to receive an American P-1A visa, a category designated for \"Internationally Recognized Athletes\".\n\nIn 2014, Turkey's Ministry of Youth and Sports started issuing e-Sports Player licenses to players certified as professionals.\n\nIn 2016, the French government started working on a project to regulate and recognize esports. The Games and Amusements Board of the Philippines started issuing athletic license to Filipino esports players who are vouched by a professional esports team in July 2017.\n\nTo help promote esports as a legitimate sport, several esports events have been run alongside more traditional international sport competitions. The 2007 Asian Indoor Games was the first notable multi-sport competition including esports as an official medal-winning event alongside other traditional sports, and the later editions of the Asian Indoor Games and its successor the Asian Indoor and Martial Arts Games have always included esports as an official medal event or an exhibition event up to now. Moreover, the Asian Games, which is the Asian top-level multi-sport competition, will also include esports as a medal event at the 2022 edition; esports around games such as \"Hearthstone\", \"Starcraft II\", and \"League of Legends\" were presented as an exhibition event at the 2018 Asian Games as a lead-in to the 2022 games. The 2019 Southeast Asian Games will include six medal events for esports.\n\nThe Olympic Games are also seen as a potential method to legitimize esports. A summit held by the International Olympic Committee (IOC) in October 2017 acknowledged the growing popularity of esports, concluding that \"Competitive 'esports' could be considered as a sporting activity, and the players involved prepare and train with an intensity which may be comparable to athletes in traditional sports\" but would require any games used for the Olympics fitting \"with the rules and regulations of the Olympic movement\". Two difficulties remain for presenting esports as an Olympic event according to IOC President Thomas Bach: that they would need to restrict those that present violent gameplay, and that there is currently a lack of a global sanctioning body for esports to coordinate further. On the issue of violence, while Bach acknowledged that many Olympic sports bore out from actual violent combat, \"sport is the civilized expression about this. If you have egames where it’s about killing somebody, this cannot be brought into line with our Olympic values.\" Due to that, it was suggested that the IOC would approve more of esports centered around games that simulate real sports, such as the \"NBA 2K\" or \"FIFA\" series.\n\nThe issues around esports have not prevented the IOC from exploring what possibilities there are for incorporation into future Olympics. During July 2018, the IOC and the Global Association of International Sports Federations (GAISF) held a symposium and inviting major figures in esports, including Epic Games' Mark Rein, Blizzard Entertainment's Mike Morhaime, and esports players Dario \"TLO\" Wünsch, Jacob \"Jake\" Lyon, and Se-yeon \"Geguri\" Kim, for these organizations \"to gain a deeper understanding of esports, their impact and likely future development, so that [they] can jointly consider the ways in which [they] may collaborate to the mutual benefit of all of sport in the years ahead\". The IOC has tested the potential for esports through exhibition games. With support of the IOC, Intel sponsored exhibition eSport events for \"StarCraft II\" and \"Steep\" prior to the 2018 Winter Olympics in Pyeongchang, and five South Korean eSport players were part of the Olympic Torch relay. A similar exhibition showcase, the eGames, was held alongside the 2016 Summer Olympics in Rio de Janeiro, though this was not supported by the IOC.\n\nLeaders in Japan are becoming involved to help bring esports to the 2020 Summer Olympics and beyond, given the country's reputation as a major video game industry center. esports in Japan had not flourished due to the country's anti-gambling laws that also prevent paid professional gaming tournaments, but there were efforts starting in late 2017 to eliminate this issue. At the suggestion of the Tokyo Olympic Games Committee for the 2020 Summer Olympics, four esports organizations have worked with Japan's leading consumer organization to exempt esports tournaments from gambling law restrictions. Takeo Kawamura, a member of the Japanese House of Representatives and of the ruling Liberal Democratic Party, led a collation of ruling and opposing politicians to support esports, called the Japan esports Union, or JeSU; Kawamura said that they would be willing to pass laws to further exempt esports as needed so that esports athletes can make a living playing these sports. So far, this has resulting in the ability for esports players to obtain exemption licenses to allow them to play, a similar mechanism needed for professional athletes in other sports in Japan to play professionally. The first such licenses were given out in mid-July 2018, via a tournament held by several video game publishers to award prizes to many players but with JeSU offered these exemption licenses to the top dozen or so players that emerge, allowing them to compete in further esports events. The Tokyo Olympic Committee has also planned to arrange a number of esports events to lead up into the 2020 games.\n\nThe organization committee for the 2024 Summer Olympics in Paris are in discussions with the IOC and the various professional eSport organizations to consider esports for the event, citing the need to include these elements to keep the Olympics relevant to younger generations.\n\nA number of games are popular among professional competitors. The tournaments which emerged in the mid-1990s coincided with the popularity of fighting games and first-person shooters, genres which still maintain a devoted fan base. In the 2000s, real-time strategy games became overwhelmingly popular in South Korean internet cafés, with crucial influence on the development of esports worldwide. After 2010 with the release of the \"\" mod \"Defense of the Ancients\", multiplayer online battle arena games became popular as esports. Competitions exist for many titles and genres, though currently the most popular games are \"\", \"Call of Duty\", \"League of Legends\", \"Dota 2\", \"Smite\", \"Rocket League\", \"World of Tanks\", \"Heroes of the Storm\", \"Hearthstone\", \"Super Smash Bros. Melee\", \"StarCraft II\" and \"Overwatch\". \"\" has also popularized the digital collectible card game (CCG) genre since its release in 2014.\n\nWhile it is common for video games to be designed with the experience of the player in game being the only priority, many successful esports games have been designed to be played professionally from the beginning. Developers may decide to add dedicated esports features, or even make design compromises to support high level competition. Games such as \"StarCraft II\", \"League of Legends\", and \"Dota 2\" have all been designed, at least in part, to support professional competition.\n\nIn addition to allowing players to participate in a given game, many game developers have added dedicated observing features for the benefit of spectators. This can range from simply allowing players to watch the game unfold from the competing player's point of view, to a highly modified interface that gives spectators access to information even the players may not have. The state of the game viewed through this mode may tend to be delayed by a certain amount of time in order to prevent either teams in a game from gaining a competitive advantage. Games with these features include \"\", \"Call of Duty\", \"StarCraft II\", \"Dota 2\", and \"Counter-Strike\". \"League of Legends\" includes spectator features, which are restricted to custom game modes.\n\nIn response to the release of virtual reality headsets in 2016, some games, such as \"Dota 2\", were updated to include virtual reality spectating support.\n\nA very common method for connection is the Internet. Game servers are often separated by region, but high quality connections allow players to set up real-time connections across the world. Downsides to online connections include increased difficulty detecting cheating compared to physical events, and greater network latency, which can negatively impact players' performance, especially at high levels of competition. Many competitions take place online, especially for smaller tournaments and exhibition games.\n\nSince the 1990s, professional teams or organized clans have set up matches via Internet Relay Chat networks such as QuakeNet. As esports have developed, it has also become common for players to use automated matchmaking clients built into the games themselves. This was popularized by the 1996 release of Blizzard's Battle.net, which has been integrated into both the \"Warcraft\" and \"StarCraft\" series. Automated matchmaking has become commonplace in console gaming as well, with services such as Xbox Live and the PlayStation Network. After competitors have contacted each other, the game is often managed by a game server, either remotely to each of the competitors, or running on one of the competitor's machines.\n\nAdditionally, competitions are also often conducted over a local area network or LAN. The smaller network usually has very little lag and higher quality. Because competitors must be physically present, LANs help ensure fair play by allowing direct scrutiny of competitors. This helps prevent many forms of cheating, such as unauthorized hardware or software modding. The physical presence of competitors helps create a more social atmosphere at LAN events. Many gamers organize LAN parties or visit Internet cafés, and most major tournaments are conducted over LANs.\n\nIndividual games have taken various approaches to LAN support. In contrast to the original \"StarCraft\", \"StarCraft II\" was released without support for LAN play, drawing some strongly negative reactions from players. \"League of Legends\" was originally released for online play only, but announced in October 2012 that a LAN client was in the works for use in major tournaments. In September 2013, Valve added general support for LAN play to \"Dota 2\" in a patch for the game.\n\nEsports tournaments are almost always physical events in which occur in front of a live audience. The tournament may be part of a larger gathering, such as Dreamhack, or the competition may be the entirety of the event, like the World Cyber Games. Competitions take several formats, but the most common are single or double elimination, sometimes hybridized with group stage. Competitions usually have referees or officials to monitor for cheating.\n\nAlthough competitions involving video games have long existed, esports underwent a significant transition in the late 1990s. Beginning with the Cyberathlete Professional League in 1997, tournaments became much larger, and corporate sponsorship became more common. Increasing viewership both in person and online brought esports to a wider audience. Major tournaments include the World Cyber Games, the North American Major League Gaming league, the France-based Electronic Sports World Cup, and the World e-Sports Games held in Hangzhou, China.\n\nFor well established games, total prize money can amount to millions of U.S. dollars a year. As of 10 September 2016, \"Dota 2\" has awarded approximately US$86 million in prize money within 632 registered tournaments, with 23 players winning over $1 million. \"League of Legends\" awarded approximately $30 million within 1749 registered tournaments, but in addition to the prize money, Riot Games provides salaries for players within their \"League of Legends\" Championship Series. Nonetheless, there has been criticism to how these salaries are distributed, since most players earn a fairly low wage but a few top players have a significantly higher salary, skewing the average earning per player. In August 2017, The International 2017, Valve's premier \"Dota 2\" tournament, was held and broke records by having the largest prize pool to date for an esports tournament, amounting to over US$24 million.\n\nOften, game developers provide prize money for tournament competition directly, but sponsorship may also come from third parties, typically companies selling computer hardware, energy drinks, or computer software. Generally, hosting a large esports event is not profitable as a stand-alone venture. For example, Riot has stated that their headline \"League of Legends\" Championship Series is \"a significant investment that we're not making money from\".\n\nThere is considerable variation and negotiation over the relationship between video game developers and tournament organizers and broadcasters. While the original \"StarCraft\" events emerged in South Korea largely independently of Blizzard, the company decided to require organizers and broadcasters to authorize events featuring the sequel \"StarCraft II\". In the short term, this led to a deadlock with the Korean e-Sports Association. An agreement was reached in 2012. Blizzard requires authorization for tournaments with more than $10,000 USD in prizes. Riot Games offers in-game rewards to authorized tournaments.\n\neSport competitions have also become a popular feature at gaming and multi-genre conventions.\n\nThe training that the players must undergo to prepare for tournaments is different but still takes a tremendous amount of time. Athletes from traditional sports' training is almost entirely based on honing their physical prowess in performing that sport, such as muscle memory, exercising, and dieting. Esports athletes' training is much more based on training the mind, such as studying strategies and new updates for the game. Team Liquid, a professional League of Legends team, practice for a minimum of 50 hours per week and most play the game far more. This training schedule for players has resulted in many of them retiring a very early age. Few careers burn as intensely—and as briefly—as that of an esports professional. Players are generally in competition by their mid- to late teens, and most are retired by their mid-20s. Because of this people in the industry are discussing the possibility of implementing physical workouts in addition to the mental training they already go through.\n\nProfessional gamers, or \"pro gamers\", are often associated with gaming teams and/or broader gaming associations. Teams like FaZe Clan, OpTic Gaming, Evil Geniuses, Team SoloMid, Cloud9, Fnatic, Mineski, Counter Logic Gaming, SK Telecom T1, Splyce, Team EnVyUs, and Natus Vincere consist of several professionals. In addition to prize money from tournament wins, players may also be paid a separate team salary. Team sponsorship may cover tournament travel expenses or gaming hardware. Prominent esports sponsors include companies such as Logitech and Razer. Teams feature these sponsors on their website, team jerseys and on their social media, in 2016 the biggest teams have social media followings of over a million. Associations include the Korean e-Sports Association (KeSPA), the International e-Sports Federation (IeSF), the British esports Association, and the World esports Association (WESA).\n\nSome traditional sporting athletes have invested in esports, such as Rick Fox's ownership of Echo Fox, Jeremy Lin's ownership of Team VGJ, Shaquille O'Neal's investment in NRG Esports. Some association football teams, such as FC Schalke 04 in Germany, Paris Saint-Germain esports in France; Besiktas JK, Fenerbahce S.K., and Galatasaray in Turkey; Panathinaikos F.C. in Greece either sponsor or have complete ownership in esports teams.\n\nPro gamers are usually obligated to behave ethically, abiding by both the explicit rules set out by tournaments, associations, and teams, as well as following general expectations of good sportsmanship. For example, it is common practice and considered good etiquette to chat \"gg\" (for \"good game\") when defeated. Many games rely on the fact competitors have limited information about the game state. In a prominent example of good conduct, during a 2012 IEM \"StarCraft II\" game, the players Feast and DeMusliM both voluntarily offered information about their strategies to negate the influence of outside information inadvertently leaked to \"Feast\" during the game. Players in some leagues have been reprimanded for failure to comply with expectations of good behavior. In 2012 professional \"League of Legends\" player Christian \"IWillDominate\" Riviera was banned from competing for a period of one year following a history of verbal abuse. In 2013 \"StarCraft II\" progamer Greg \"Idra\" Fields was fired from Evil Geniuses for insulting his fans on the Team Liquid internet forums. \"League of Legends\" players Mithy and Nukeduck received similar penalties in 2014 after behaving in a \"toxic\" manner during matches.\n\nTeam Siren, an all-female \"League of Legends\" team, was formed in June 2013. The announcement of the team was met with controversy, being dismissed as a \"gimmick\" to attract the attention of men. The team disbanded within a month, due to the negative publicity of their promotional video, as well as the poor attitude of the team captain towards her teammates.\n\nThere have been serious violations of the rules. In 2010, eleven \"StarCraft: Brood War\" players were found guilty of fixing matches for profit, and were fined and banned from future competition. Team Curse and Team Dignitas were denied prize money for collusion during the 2012 MLG Summer Championship. In 2012, \"League of Legends\" team Azubu Frost was fined US$30,000 for cheating during a semifinal match of the world playoffs. \"Dota 2\" player Aleksey \"Solo\" Berezin was suspended from a number of tournaments for intentionally throwing a game in order to collect $322 from online gambling. In 2014, four high-profile North American \"Counter-Strike\" players from iBuyPower, namely Sam \"DaZeD\" Marine, Braxton \"swag\" Pierce, Joshua \"steel\" Nissan and Keven \"AZK\" Lariviere were suspended from official tournaments after they had been found guilty of match-fixing. The four players had allegedly profited over US$10,000 through betting on their fixed matches. Gambling on esports using \"Counter-Strike: Global Offense\" \"skins\", worth an estimated US$2.3 billion in 2015, had come under criticism in June and July 2016 after several questionable legal and ethical aspects of the practice were discovered.\n\nReports of widespread use of performance-enhancing drugs (PEDs) in esports are not uncommon, with players discussing their own, their teammates' and their competitors' use and officials acknowledging the prevalence of the issue. Players often turn to stimulants such as Ritalin, Adderall and Vyvanse, drugs which can significantly boost concentration, improve reaction time and prevent fatigue. Selegiline, a drug used to treat Parkinson's disease, is reportedly popular because, like stimulants, it enhances mood and motivation. Conversely, drugs with calming effects are also sought after. Some players take propanolol, which blocks the effects of adrenaline, or Valium, which is prescribed to treat anxiety disorder, in order to remain calm under pressure. According to Bjoern Franzen, a former SK Gaming executive, it is second nature for some \"League of Legends\" players to take as many as three different drugs before competition. In July 2015 Kory \"Semphis\" Friesen, an ex-Cloud9 player, admitted that he and his teammates were all using Adderall during a match against Virtus.pro in the ESL One Katowice 2015 \"Counter-Strike: Global Offensive\" tournament, and went on to claim that \"everyone\" at ESEA League tournaments uses Adderall.\n\nThe unregulated use of such drugs poses severe risks to competitors' health, including addiction, overdose, serotonin syndrome and, in the case of stimulants, weight loss. Even over-the-counter energy drinks which are marketed specifically toward gamers have faced media and regulatory scrutiny due to deaths and hospitalizations. Accordingly, Adderall and other such stimulants are banned and their use penalized by many professional sporting bodies and leagues, including Major League Baseball and the National Football League. Although International e-Sports Federation (IeSF) is a signatory of the World Anti-Doping Agency, the governing body has not outlawed any PEDs in its sanctioned competitions. Action has been taken on the individual league level, however, as at least one major league, the Electronic Sports League, has made use of any drugs during matches punishable by expulsion from competition. Although not all players use drugs, it is common to see gamers use energy boosters or drinks. They commonly drink caffeinated drinks or use energy pills.\n\nThere has been some concern over the quality of life and potential mistreatment of players by organizations, especially in South Korea. Korean organizations have been accused of refusing to pay competitive salaries, leading to a slow exodus of Korean players to other markets. In an interview, \"League of Legends\" player Bae \"Dade\" Eo-jin said that \"Korean players wake up at 1pm and play until 5am\", and suggested that the 16 hour play schedule was a significant factor in causing burnout. Concerns over the mental health of players intensified in 2014 when \"League of Legends\" player Cheon \"Promise\" Min-Ki attempted suicide a week after admitting to match fixing.\n\nTo combat the negative environment, Korean \"League of Legends\" teams were given new rules for the upcoming 2015 season by Riot Games, including the adoption of minimum salaries for professional players, requiring contracts and allowing players to stream individually for additional player revenue.\n\nPlayers must handle their own treatments and carry their own medical insurance, which is opposite of the norm with professional sports teams. Since most esports play requires many actions per minute, some players may get repetitive strain injuries, causing hand or wrist pain.\n\n\"League of Legends\" Championship Series and \"League of Legends\" Champions Korea offer guaranteed salaries for players. Despite this, online streaming is preferred by some players, as it is in some cases more profitable than competing with a team and streamers have the ability to determine their own schedule. The International tournament awards US$10 million to the winners, however teams that do not have the same amount of success often do not have financial stability and frequently break up after failing to win.\n\nIn 2015 it was estimated by SuperData Research that the global esports industry generated revenue of around US$748.8 million that year. Asia is the leading esports market with over $321 million in revenue, North America is around $224 million, and Europe has $172 million and the rest of the world for about $29 million. Global esports revenue is estimated to reach $1.9 billion by 2018.\n\nThe number of female viewers has been growing in esports, with an estimated 30% of esports viewers being female in 2013, an increase from 15% from the previous year. However, despite the increase in female viewers, there is not a growth of female players in high level competitive esports. The top female players that are involved in esports mainly get exposure in female-only tournaments, most notably \"Counter-Strike\", \"Dead or Alive 4\", and \"StarCraft II\". All-female esports teams include Frag Dolls and PMS Clan.\n\nGambling and betting on esport matches have generally been illegal in major markets. The illegality of esport gambling has created a black market related to esports and virtual currency, as these go unregulated, may encourage match-fixing by players themselves, and lead to concerns about underage gambling due to the draw of video games. One such example of this is skin gambling, where virtual items earned in games were used as a currency for users to bet on the outcome of matches.\n\nEsports gambling in the United States has been illegal under the federal Professional and Amateur Sports Protection Act of 1992 (PASPA) until May 2018. The Act prevented all but five states from allowing gambling on sporting events. However, regulation of esports betting still depended on state law. Some betting houses in Nevada, where sports betting is already exempted under PASPA, classify esports as non-competitive \"other events\" similar to the selection of the Heisman Trophy winner or NFL Draft to be legal. Other companies established in the United States allow for legal esports betting for international users but are restricted from Americans. Nevada legalized esports gambling in June 2017, classifying esports alongside competitive sports and dog racing.\n\nWith the Supreme Court of the United States's ruling in \"Murphy v. National Collegiate Athletic Association\" in May 2018, PASPA was found unconstitutional, as the Court ruled that the federal government cannot limit states from regulating sports betting. This created the potential for legalized esports-based betting in the United States. However, New Jersey, the state at the center of the Supreme Court case, passed its bill to legalize sports gambling but restricted gambling on esports to only international competitions where most players are over 18 years of age.\n\nWithout PASPA, interstate gambling on esports would be still be limited by the Federal Wire Act, preventing users from betting on national esports events outside of the state.\n\nWith the growing popularity of machine learning in data analytics, esports has been the focus of several software programs that analyze the plethora of game data available. Based on the huge number of matches played on a daily basis globally (League of Legends alone had a reported 100 million active monthly players worldwide in 2016 and an average of 27 million League of Legends games played per day reported in 2014 ), these games can be used for applying big-data machine learning platforms. Several games make their data publicly available, so websites aggregate the data into easy-to-visualize graphs and statistics. In addition, several programs use machine learning tools to predict the win probability of a match based on various factors, such as team composition. In 2018, the DotA team Team Liquid partnered with a software company to allow players and coaches to predict the team's success rate in each match and provide advice on what needs to be changed to improve performance.\n\nThe main medium for esports coverage is the Internet. In the mid-2010s, mainstream sports and news reporting websites, such as \"ESPN\", \"Yahoo!\", \"Sport1\", \"Kicker\", and \"Aftonbladet\" started dedicated esports coverage. esports tournaments commonly use commentators or casters to provide live commentary of games in progress, similar to a traditional sports commentator. For popular casters, providing commentary for esports can be a full-time position by itself. Prominent casters for \"StarCraft II\" include Dan \"Artosis\" Stemkoski and Nick \"Tasteless\" Plott.\n\nIn 2018, the Associated Press' AP Stylebook officially began spelling the word as \"esports\", dropping support for both the capital \"S\" and the dash between \"e\" and \"sports\" styles, similar to how \"e-mail\" transformed with common usage to \"email\". Richard Tyler Blevins, better known as \"Ninja\", became the first professional gamer to appear in a cover story for a major sports magazine when he appeared in the September 2018 issue of \"ESPN The Magazine\".\n\nMany esports events are streamed online to viewers over the internet. With the shutdown of the Own3d streaming service in 2013, Twitch is by far the most popular streaming service for esports, competing against other providers such as Hitbox.tv, Azubu, and YouTube Gaming. Dreamhack Winter 2011 reached 1.7 million unique viewers on Twitch. While coverage of live events usually brings in the largest viewership counts, the recent popularization of streaming services has allowed individuals to broadcast their own gameplay independent of such events as well. Individual broadcasters can enter an agreement with Twitch or Hitbox in which they receive a portion of the advertisement revenue from commercials which run on the stream they create.\n\nAnother major streaming platform was Major League Gaming's MLG.tv. The network, which specializes in \"Call of Duty\" content but hosts a range of gaming titles, has seen increasing popularity, with 1376% growth in MLG.tv viewership in Q1 of 2014. The 2014 \"\" broadcast at MLG's X Games event drew over 160,000 unique viewers. The network, like Twitch, allows users to broadcast themselves playing games, though only select individuals can use the service. For several years, MLG.tv was the primary streaming platform for the \"Call of Duty\" professional scene; famous players such as NaDeSHoT and Scump have signed contracts with the company to use its streaming service exclusively. In January 2016, MLG was acquired by Activision Blizzard.\n\nYouTube also relaunched its livestreaming platform with a renewed focus on live gaming and esports specifically. For The International 2014, coverage was also simulcast on ESPN's streaming service ESPN3. In December 2016, Riot Games announced a deal with MLB Advanced Media's technology division BAM Tech for the company to distribute and monetize broadcasts of \"League of Legends\" events through 2023. BAM Tech will pay Riot at least $300 million per-year, and split advertising revenue.\n\nEspecially since the popularization of streaming in esports, organizations no longer prioritize television coverage, preferring online streaming websites such as Twitch. Ongamenet continues to broadcast as an esports channel in South Korea, but MBCGame was taken off the air in 2012. Riot Games' Dustin Beck stated that \"TV's not a priority or a goal\", and DreamHack's Tomas Hermansson said \"esports have [been proven] to be successful on internet streaming [services].\"\n\nOn the night before the finals of The International 2014 in August, ESPN3 broadcast a half-hour special profiling the tournament. In 2015, ESPN2 broadcast \"Heroes of the Dorm\", the grand finals of the \"Heroes of the Storm\" collegiate tournament. The first-place team from the University of California, Berkeley received tuition for each of the teams players, paid for by Blizzard and Tespa. The top four teams won gaming equipment and new computers. This was the first time an eSport had ever been broadcast on a major American television network. The broadcast was an attempt to broaden the appeal of esports by reaching viewers who would not normally come across it. However, the broadcast was met with a few complaints. Those living outside of the United States were unable to view the tournament. Additionally, the tournament could not be viewed online via streams, cutting off a large portion of viewers from the main demographic in the process.\n\nIn September 2015, Turner Broadcasting partnered with WME/IMG. In December 2015, the partnered companies announced two seasons of the ELeague, a league based in North America including 15 teams from across the world competing for a $1,200,000 prize pool each 10-week season. The tournament, filmed at Turner's studios in Atlanta, Georgia, is simultaneously streamed on online streaming websites and TBS on Friday nights.\n\nIn January 2016, Activision Blizzard, publishers of the \"Call of Duty\" and \"StarCraft\" series, acquired Major League Gaming. In an interview with \"The New York Times\" about the purchase, Activision Blizzard CEO Robert Kotick explained that the company was aspiring to create a U.S. cable network devoted to esports, which he described as \"the ESPN of video games\". He felt that higher quality productions, more in line with those of traditional sports telecasts, could help to broaden the appeal of esports to advertisers. Activision Blizzard had hired former ESPN and NFL Network executive Steve Bornstein to be CEO of the company's esports division.\n\nTV 2, the largest private television broadcaster in Norway, broadcasts esports across the country. TV 2 partnered with local Norwegian organization House of Nerds to bring a full season of esports competition with an initial lineup of \"Counter-Strike: Global Offensive\", \"League of Legends\", and \"StarCraft II\".\n\nIn April 2016, Big Ten Network announced a collaboration with Riot to hold an invitational \"League of Legends\" competition between two universities from the collegiate Big Ten Conference, as part of Riot's collegiate championships at PAX East. On 17 January 2017, Big Ten Network and Riot announced that it would hold a larger season of conference competition involving 10 Big Ten schools.\n\nNielsen Holdings, a global information company known for tracking viewership for television and other media, announced in August 2017 that it would launch Nielsen esports, a division devoted to providing similar viewership and other consumer research data around esports, forming an advisory board with members from ESL, Activision Blizzard, Twitch.tv, YouTube, ESPN, and FIFA to help determine how to track and monitor audience sizes for eSport events.\n\nIn July 2018, on the first day of the inaugural 2018 Overwatch League season playoffs, Blizzard and Disney announced a multi-year deal that gave Disney and its networks ESPN and ABC broadcast rights to the Overwatch League and Overwatch World Cup, starting with the playoffs and continuing with future events.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45413580", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45413580", "title": "Failure modes, effects, and diagnostic analysis", "text": "Failure modes, effects, and diagnostic analysis\n\nFailure modes, effects, and diagnostic analysis (FMEDA) is a systematic analysis technique to obtain subsystem / product level failure rates, failure modes and diagnostic capability. The FMEDA technique considers:\n\nGiven a component database calibrated with field failure data that is reasonably accurate \n, the method can predict product level failure rate and failure mode data for a given application. The predictions have been shown to be more accurate than field warranty return analysis or even typical field failure analysis given that these methods depend on reports that typically do not have sufficient detail information in failure records.\n\nThe name was given by Dr. William M. Goble in 1994 to the technique that had been in development since 1988 by Dr. Goble and other engineers now at exida.\n\nA failure modes and effects analysis, FMEA, is a structured qualitative analysis of a system, subsystem, process, design or function to identify potential failure modes, their causes and their effects on (system) operation. The concept and practice of performing a FMEA, has been around in some form since the 1960s. The practice was first formalized in 1970s with the development of US MIL STD 1629/1629A.\nIn early practice its use was limited to select applications and industries where cost of failure was particularly high. The primary benefits were to qualitatively evaluate the safety and reliability of a system, determine unacceptable failure modes, identify potential design improvements, plan maintenance activities and help understand system operation in the presence of potential faults. \nThe failure modes, effects and criticality analysis (FMECA) was introduced to address a primary barrier to effective use of the detailed FMEA results by the addition of a criticality metric. This allowed users of the analysis to quickly focus on the most important failure modes/effects in terms of risk. This allowed prioritization to drive improvements based on cost / benefit comparisons.\n\nThe FMEDA technique was developed in the late 1980s by exida engineers based in part on a paper in the 1984 RAMS Symposium. The initial FMEDA added two additional pieces of information to the FMEA analysis process. The first piece of information added in an FMEDA is the quantitative failure data (failure rates and the distribution of failure modes) for all components being analyzed. The second piece of information added to an FMEDA is the probability of the system or subsystem to detect internal failures via automatic on-line diagnostics. This is crucial to achieving and maintaining reliability in increasing complex systems and for systems that may not be fully exercising all functionality under normal circumstances such as a low demand Emergency Shutdown System, ESD System.\nThere is a clear need for a measurement of automatic diagnostic capability. This was recognized in the late 1980s In that context the principles and basic methods for the modern FMEDA were first documented in the book \"Evaluating Control System Reliability\". The actual term FMEDA was first used in 1994 and after further refinement the methods were published in the late 1990s. The method was explained to members of the IEC 61508 committee in the late 90s and included in the standard as a method of determining failure rate, failure mode and diagnostic coverage for products. FMEDA techniques have been further refined during the 2000s primarily during IEC 61508 preparation work. The key changes have been:\n1. Use of Functional Failure Modes;\n2. Mechanical Component Usage;\n3. Prediction of manual proof test effectiveness; and\n4. Prediction of product useful life.\nWith these changes, the FMEDA technique has matured to become more complete and useful.\n\nAlso in the early 2000s functional failure mode analysis was added to the FMEDA process by John C. Grebe. In early FMEDA work, component failure modes were mapped directly to \"safe\" or \"dangerous\" categories per IEC 61508. This was relatively easy since everything that was not \"dangerous\" was \"safe.\" With multiple failure mode categories now existing, direct assignment became more difficult. In addition, it became clear that the category assignment might change if a product were used in different applications. With direct failure mode category assignment during the FMEDA, a new FMEDA was required for each new application or each variation in usage. \nUnder the functional failure mode approach, the actual functional failure modes of the product are identified during an FMEA. During the detailed FMEDA, each component failure mode is mapped to a functional failure mode. The functional failure modes are then categorized according to product failure mode in a particular application. This eliminates the need for more detailed work when a new application is considered.\n\nIt became clear in the early 2000s that many products being used in safety critical applications had mechanical components. An FMEDA done without considering these mechanical components was incomplete, misleading, and potentially dangerous. The fundamental problem in using the FMEDA technique was the lack of a mechanical component database that included part failure rates and failure mode distributions.\nUsing a number of published reference sources, exida began development of a mechanical component database in 2003. After a few years of research and refinement, the database has been published. This has allowed the FMEDA to be used on combination electrical / mechanical components and purely mechanical components.\n\nThe FMEDA can predict the effectiveness of any defined manual proof test in the same way it can predict automatic diagnostic coverage. An additional column is added to the FMEDA and probability of detection for each component failure mode is estimated. The cumulative effectiveness of the proof test is calculated in the same way as automatic diagnostic coverage.\n\nAs each component within a product is reviewed, those with a relatively short useful life span are identified. One example of this is an electrolytic capacitor. Many designs have a useful life limitation of 10 years. Since constant failure rates are only valid during the useful life period, this metric is valuable for interpreting FMEDA result limitations.\n\nIt is clear that further refinement of the component database with selective calibration to different operation profiles is needed. In addition, comparisons of FMEDA results with field failure studies, have shown that human factors, especially maintenance procedures, affect the failure rates and failure modes of products.\n\nAs more data becomes available, the component database can be refined and updated. After a few years of research and refinement, the database has been published as required by new technology and new knowledge. The success of the FMEDA technique is supplying needed data in a relatively accurate way has allowed the probabilistic, performance approach to design to work.\n\n"}
{"id": "2422181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2422181", "title": "Foo Camp", "text": "Foo Camp\n\nFoo Camp is an annual hacker event hosted by publisher O'Reilly Media. O'Reilly describes it as \"the wiki of conferences\", where the program is developed by the attendees at the event, using big whiteboard schedule templates that can be rewritten or overwritten by attendees to optimize the schedule; this type of event is sometimes called an unconference.\n\nThe event started as a joke between Tim O'Reilly and Sara Winge, O'Reilly's VP of Corporate Communications. Sara had always wanted to run a \"foo bar\", an open bar for \"Friends of O'Reilly\", at one of O'Reilly's conferences. That joke morphed into a brainstorm after the dot com bust left O'Reilly with lots of unused office space in its new buildings, creating the opportunity for Foo Camp. The first FOO Camp was held in August, 2003, and had approximately 200 attendees. There was eventually a Foo Bar at the camp.\n\nTim O'Reilly describes the goal of his company as \"changing the world by spreading the knowledge of innovators.\" Foo Camp has evolved into an important mechanism for finding those innovators. O'Reilly asks attendees to nominate new and interesting people to be invited to future camps.\n\nIn 2005, a complementary alternative BarCamp was created by a past attendee of Foo Camp and a few individuals who were interested in organizing their own version of Foo Camp, and hosted at the Socialtext offices in Palo Alto, California, by Socialtext founder Ross Mayfield, with an open invitation to anyone who wanted to join.\n\nSince February 2007, former O'Reilly employee Nathan Torkington has hosted an annual Kiwi Foo Camp in Warkworth, New Zealand\n\nO'Reilly has since held a series of topical Foo Camps at Google Headquarters, including Science Foo Camp, Collective Intelligence Foo Camp, Social Graph Foo Camp, and others. In December 2010, O'Reilly co-organized NewsFoo with Google and the Knight Foundation at the Walter Cronkite School of Journalism and Mass Communication in Phoenix Arizona.\n\nIn 2011, O'Reilly announced the Health Foo on the Robert Wood Johnson Foundation Blog. In February 2018, O’Reilly, Facebook and SAGE Publications held the first Social Science Foo Camp at Facebook in Menlo Park, California.\n\n"}
{"id": "233039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=233039", "title": "French Revolutionary Wars", "text": "French Revolutionary Wars\n\nThe French Revolutionary Wars were a series of sweeping military conflicts lasting from 1792 until 1802 and resulting from the French Revolution. They pitted the French Republic against Great Britain, Austria and several other monarchies. They are divided in two periods: the War of the First Coalition (1792–97) and the War of the Second Coalition (1798–1802). Initially confined to Europe, the fighting gradually assumed a global dimension. After a decade of constant warfare and aggressive diplomacy, France had conquered a wide array of territories, from the Italian Peninsula and the Low Countries in Europe to the Louisiana Territory in North America. French success in these conflicts ensured the spread of revolutionary principles over much of Europe.\n\nAs early as 1791, the other monarchies of Europe looked with outrage at the revolution and its upheavals; and they considered whether they should intervene, either in support of King Louis XVI, to prevent the spread of revolution, or to take advantage of the chaos in France. Anticipating an attack, France declared war on Prussia and Austria in the spring of 1792 and they responded with a coordinated invasion that was eventually turned back at the Battle of Valmy in September. This victory emboldened the National Convention to abolish the monarchy. A series of victories by the new French armies abruptly ended with defeat at Neerwinden in the spring of 1793. The French suffered additional defeats in the remainder of the year and these difficult times allowed the Jacobins to rise to power and impose the Reign of Terror to unify the nation.\n\nIn 1794, the situation improved dramatically for the French as huge victories at Fleurus against the Austrians and at the Black Mountain against the Spanish signaled the start of a new stage in the wars. By 1795, the French had captured the Austrian Netherlands and knocked Spain and Prussia out of the war with the Peace of Basel. A hitherto unknown general named Napoleon Bonaparte began his first campaign in Italy in April 1796. In less than a year, French armies under Napoleon decimated the Habsburg forces and evicted them from the Italian peninsula, winning almost every battle and capturing 150,000 prisoners. With French forces marching towards Vienna, the Austrians sued for peace and agreed to the Treaty of Campo Formio, ending the First Coalition against the Republic.\n\nThe War of the Second Coalition began in 1798 with the French invasion of Egypt, headed by Napoleon. The Allies took the opportunity presented by the French effort in the Middle East to regain territories lost from the First Coalition. The war began well for the Allies in Europe, where they gradually pushed the French out of Italy and invaded Switzerland—racking up victories at Magnano, Cassano and Novi along the way. However, their efforts largely unraveled with the French victory at Zurich in September 1799, which caused Russia to drop out of the war. Meanwhile, Napoleon's forces annihilated a series of Egyptian and Ottoman armies at the battles of the Pyramids, Mount Tabor and Abukir. These victories and the conquest of Egypt further enhanced Napoleon's popularity back in France and he returned in triumph in the fall of 1799. However, the Royal Navy had won the Battle of the Nile in 1798, further strengthening British control of the Mediterranean.\n\nNapoleon's arrival from Egypt led to the fall of the Directory in the Coup of 18 Brumaire, with Napoleon installing himself as Consul. Napoleon then reorganized the French army and launched a new assault against the Austrians in Italy during the spring of 1800. This brought a decisive French victory at the Battle of Marengo in June 1800, after which the Austrians withdrew from the peninsula once again. Another crushing French triumph at Hohenlinden in Bavaria forced the Austrians to seek peace for a second time, leading to the Treaty of Lunéville in 1801. With Austria and Russia out of the war, the United Kingdom found itself increasingly isolated and agreed to the Treaty of Amiens with Napoleon's government in 1802, concluding the Revolutionary Wars. However, the lingering tensions proved too difficult to contain and the Napoleonic Wars began a few years later with the formation of the Third Coalition, continuing the series of Coalition Wars.\n\nThe key figure in initial foreign reaction to the revolution was Holy Roman Emperor Leopold II, brother of Louis XVI's Queen Marie Antoinette. Leopold had initially looked on the Revolution with equanimity, but became more and more disturbed as the Revolution became more radical, although he still hoped to avoid war. On 27 August, Leopold and King Frederick William II of Prussia, in consultation with emigrant French nobles, issued the Declaration of Pillnitz, which declared the interest of the monarchs of Europe in the well-being of Louis and his family, and threatened vague but severe consequences if anything should befall them. Although Leopold saw the Pillnitz Declaration as a non-committal gesture to placate the sentiments of French monarchists and nobles, it was seen in France as a serious threat and was denounced by the revolutionary leaders.\n\nFrance eventually issued an ultimatum demanding that the Habsburg Monarchy of Austria under Leopold II who also was Emperor of the Holy Roman Empire renounce any hostile alliances and withdraw its troops from the French border. The reply was evasive and the Assembly voted for war on 20 April 1792 against Francis II (who succeeded Leopold II), after a long list of grievances presented by foreign minister Charles François Dumouriez. Dumouriez prepared an immediate invasion of the Austrian Netherlands, where he expected the local population to rise against Austrian rule as they had earlier in 1790. However, the revolution had thoroughly disorganized the army, and the forces raised were insufficient for the invasion. Following the declaration of war, French soldiers deserted \"en masse\" and in one case murdered their general, Théobald Dillon.\n\nWhile the revolutionary government frantically raised fresh troops and reorganized its armies, a mostly Prussian Allied army under Charles William Ferdinand, Duke of Brunswick assembled at Koblenz on the Rhine. The duke then issued a proclamation called the Brunswick Manifesto (July 1792), written by the French king's cousin, Louis Joseph de Bourbon, Prince de Condé, the leader of an émigré corps within the Allied army, which declared the Allies' intent to restore the king to his full powers and to treat any person or town who opposed them as rebels to be condemned to death by martial law. This, however, had the effect of strengthening the resolve of the revolutionary army and government to oppose them by any means necessary.\n\nOn 10 August, a crowd stormed the Tuileries Palace, seizing the king and his family. On 19 August 1792, the invasion by Brunswick's army commenced, with Brunswick's army easily taking the fortresses of Longwy and Verdun. The invasion continued, but at Valmy on 20 September, the invaders came to a stalemate against Dumouriez and Kellermann in which the highly professional French artillery distinguished itself. Although the battle was a tactical draw, it gave a great boost to French morale. Further, the Prussians, finding that the campaign had been longer and more costly than predicted, decided that the cost and risk of continued fighting was too great and, with winter approaching, they decided to retreat from France to preserve their army. The next day, the monarchy was formally abolished as the First Republic was declared (21 September 1792).\n\nMeanwhile, the French had been successful on several other fronts, occupying Savoy and Nice, which were parts of the Kingdom of Sardinia, while General Custine invaded Germany, occupying several German towns along the Rhine and reaching as far as Frankfurt. Dumouriez went on the offensive in the Austrian Netherlands once again, winning a great victory over the Austrians at the Battle of Jemappes on 6 November and occupying the entire country by the beginning of winter.\n\n Spain and Portugal entered the anti-French coalition in January 1793. Britain began military preparations in late 1792 and declared that war was inevitable unless France gave up its conquests, notwithstanding French assurances they would not attack Holland or annex the Low Countries. Britain expelled the French ambassador following the execution of Louis XVI and on 1 February France responded by declaring war on Great Britain and the Dutch Republic.\n\nFrance drafted hundreds of thousands of men, beginning a policy of using mass conscription to deploy more of its manpower than the autocratic states could manage to do (first stage, with a decree of 24 February 1793 ordering the draft of 300,000 men, followed by the general mobilization of all the young men able to be drafted, through the famous decree of 23 August 1793). Nonetheless, the Coalition allies launched a determined drive to invade France during the Flanders Campaign.\n\nFrance suffered severe reverses at first. They were driven out of the Austrian Netherlands, and serious revolts flared in the west and south of France. One of these, at Toulon, was the first serious taste of action for an unknown young artillery officer Napoleon Bonaparte. He contributed to the siege of the city and its harbor by planning an effective assault with well-placed artillery batteries raining projectiles down on rebel positions. This performance helped make his reputation as a capable tactician, and it fueled his meteoric rise to military and political power. Once the city was occupied, he participated in pacifying the rebelling citizens of Toulon with the same artillery that he first used to conquer the city.\n\nBy the end of the year, large new armies had turned back foreign invaders, and the Reign of Terror, a fierce policy of repression, had suppressed internal revolts. The French military was in the ascendant. Lazare Carnot, a scientist and prominent member of the Committee of Public Safety, organized the fourteen armies of the Republic, and was then nicknamed the Organizer of the Victory.\n\nThe year 1794 brought increased success to the French armies. On the Alpine frontier, there was little change, with the French invasion of Piedmont failing. On the Spanish border, the French under General Dugommier rallied from their defensive positions at Bayonne and Perpignan, driving the Spanish out of Roussillon and invading Catalonia. Dugommier was killed in the Battle of the Black Mountain in November.\n\nOn the northern front in the Flanders Campaign, the Austrians and French both prepared offensives in Belgium, with the Austrians besieging Landrecies and advancing towards Mons and Maubeuge. The French prepared an offensive on multiple fronts, with two armies in Flanders under Pichegru and Moreau, and Jourdan attacking from the German border. The French withstood several damaging but inconclusive actions before regaining the initiative at the battles of Tourcoing and Fleurus in June. The French armies drove the Austrians, British, and Dutch beyond the Rhine, occupying Belgium, the Rhineland, and the south of the Netherlands.\n\nOn the middle Rhine front in July, General Michaud's Army of the Rhine attempted two offensives in July in the Vosges, the second of which was successful but not followed up, allowing for a Prussian counter-attack in September. Otherwise this sector of the front was largely quiet over the course of the year.\n\nAt sea, the French Atlantic Fleet succeeded in holding off a British attempt to interdict a vital cereal convoy from the United States on the Glorious First of June, though at the cost of one quarter of its strength. In the Caribbean, the British fleet landed in Martinique in February, taking the whole island by 24 March and holding it until the Treaty of Amiens, and in Guadeloupe in April, where they captured the island briefly but were driven out by Victor Hugues later in the year. In the Mediterranean, following the British evacuation of Toulon, the Corsican leader Pasquale Paoli agreed with admiral Samuel Hood to place Corsica under British protection in return for assistance capturing French garrisons at Saint-Florent, Bastia, and Calvi, creating the short-lived Anglo-Corsican Kingdom.\n\nBy the end of the year French armies had won victories on all fronts, and as the year closed they began advancing into the Netherlands.\n\nThe year opened with French forces in the process of attacking the Dutch Republic in the middle of winter. The Dutch people rallied to the French call and started the Batavian Revolution. City after city was occupied by the French. The Dutch fleet was captured, and the stadtholder William V fled to be replaced by a popular Batavian Republic, a sister republic which supported the revolutionary cause and signed a treaty with the French, ceding the territories of North Brabant and Maastricht to France on 16 May.\n\nWith the Netherlands falling, Prussia also decided to leave the coalition, signing the Peace of Basel on 6 April, ceding the west bank of the Rhine to France. This freed Prussia to finish the occupation of Poland.\n\nThe French army in Spain advanced in Catalonia while taking Bilbao and Vitoria and marching toward Castile. By 10 July, Spain also decided to make peace, recognizing the revolutionary government and ceding the territory of Santo Domingo, but returning to the pre-war borders in Europe. This left the armies on the Pyrenees free to march east and reinforce the armies on the Alps, and the combined army overran Piedmont.\n\nMeanwhile, Britain's attempt to reinforce the rebels in the Vendée by landing troops at Quiberon failed, and a conspiracy to overthrow the republican government from within ended when Napoleon Bonaparte's garrison used cannon to fire grapeshot into the attacking mob (which led to the establishment of the Directory).\n\nOn the Rhine frontier, General Pichegru, negotiating with the exiled Royalists, betrayed his army and forced the evacuation of Mannheim and the failure of the siege of Mainz by Jourdan. This was a moderate setback to the position of the French.\n\nIn northern Italy, victory at the Battle of Loano in November gave France access to the Italian peninsula.\n\nThe French prepared a great advance on three fronts, with Jourdan and Moreau on the Rhine, and Bonaparte in Italy. The three armies were to link up in Tyrol and march on Vienna. Jourdan and Moreau advanced rapidly into Germany, and Moreau had reached Bavaria and the edge of Tyrol by September, but Jourdan was defeated by Archduke Charles, and both armies were forced to retreat back across the Rhine.\n\nNapoleon, on the other hand, was completely successful in a daring invasion of Italy. He left Paris on 11 March for Nice to take over the weak and poorly supplied Army of Italy, arriving on 26 March. The army was already being reorganised and supplied when he arrived, and he found that the situation was rapidly improving. He was soon able to carry out the plan for the invasion of Italy that he had been advocating for years, which provided for an advance over the Apennines near Altare to attack the enemy position of Ceva.\n\nThe Montenotte Campaign opened after Johann Beaulieu's Austrian forces attacked the extreme French eastern flank near Genoa on 10 April. Bonaparte countered by attacking and crushing the isolated right wing of the allied armies at the Battle of Montenotte on 12 April. The next day he defeated an Austro-Sardinian force at the Battle of Millesimo. He then won a victory at the Second Battle of Dego, driving the Austrians northeast, away from their Piedmontese allies. Satisfied that the Austrians were temporarily inert, Bonaparte harried Michelangelo Colli's Piedmontese at Ceva and San Michele Mondovi before whipping them at the Battle of Mondovì. A week later, on 28 April, the Piedmontese signed an armistice at Cherasco, withdrawing from the hostilities. On 18 May they signed a peace treaty at Paris, ceding Savoy and Nice and allowing the French bases to be used against Austria.\n\nAfter a short pause, Napoleon carried out a brilliant flanking manoeuvre, and crossed the Po at Piacenza, nearly cutting the Austrian line of retreat. The Austrians escaped after the Battle of Fombio, but had their rear-guard mauled at Lodi on 10 May, after which the French took Milan. Bonaparte then advanced eastwards again, drove off the Austrians in the Battle of Borghetto and in June began the Siege of Mantua. Mantua was the strongest Austrian base in Italy. Meanwhile, the Austrians retreated north into the foothills of the Tyrol.\n\nDuring July and August, Austria sent a fresh army into Italy under Dagobert Wurmser. Wurmser attacked toward Mantua along the east side of Lake Garda, sending Peter Quasdanovich down the west side in an effort to envelop Bonaparte. Bonaparte exploited the Austrian mistake of dividing their forces to defeat them in detail, but in so doing, he abandoned the siege of Mantua, which held out for another six months (Carl von Clauswitz mentioned in On War that the siege might have been able to be kept up if Bonaparte had circumvallated the city). Quasdanovich was overcome at Lonato on 3 August and Wurmser at Castiglione on 5 August. Wurmser retreated to the Tyrol, and Bonaparte resumed the siege.\n\nIn September, Bonaparte marched north against Trento in Tyrol, but Wurmser had already marched toward Mantua by the Brenta valley, leaving Paul Davidovich's force to hold off the French. Bonaparte overran the holding force at the Battle of Rovereto. Then he followed Wurmser down the Brenta valley, to fall upon and defeat the Austrians at the Battle of Bassano on 8 September. Wurmser elected to march for Mantua with a large portion of his surviving troops. The Austrians evaded Bonaparte's attempts to intercept them but were driven into the city after a pitched battle on 15 September. This left nearly 30,000 Austrians trapped in the fortress. This number rapidly diminished due to disease, combat losses, and hunger.\n\nThe Austrians sent yet another army under József Alvinczi against Bonaparte in November. Again the Austrians divided their effort, sending Davidovich's corps from the north while Alvinczi's main body attacked from the east. At first they proved victorious over the French at Bassano, Calliano, and Caldiero. But Bonaparte ultimately defeated Alvinczi in the Battle of Arcole southeast of Verona. The French then turned on Davidovich in great strength and chased him into the Tyrol. Wurmser's only sortie was late and ineffectual.\n\nThe rebellion in the Vendée was also finally crushed in 1796 by Hoche, but Hoche's attempt to land a large invasion force in Ireland was unsuccessful.\n\nOn 14 February, British admiral Jervis met and defeated a Spanish fleet off Portugal at the Battle of Cape St. Vincent. This prevented the Spanish fleet from rendezvousing with the French, removing a threat of invasion to Britain. However, the British fleet was weakened over the rest of the year by the Spithead and Nore mutinies, which kept many ships in port through the summer.\n\nOn 22 February French invasion force consisting of 1,400 troops from the \"La Legion Noire\" (The Black Legion) under the command of Irish American Colonel William Tate landed near Fishguard (Wales). They were met by a quickly assembled group of around 500 British reservists, militia and sailors under the command of John Campbell, 1st Baron Cawdor. After brief clashes with the local civilian population and Lord Cawdor's forces on 23 February, Tate was forced into an unconditional surrender by 24 February.\n\nIn Italy, Napoleon's armies were laying siege to Mantua at the beginning of the year, and a second attempt by Austrians under Joseph Alvinczy to raise the siege was driven off at the Battle of Rivoli, where the French scored a decisive victory. Finally, on 2 February, Wurmser surrendered Mantua and 18,000 troops. The Papal forces sued for peace, which was granted at Tolentino on 19 February. Napoleon was now free to attack the Austrian heartland. He advanced directly toward Austria over the Julian Alps, sending Barthélemy Joubert to invade the Tyrol.\n\nArchduke Charles of Austria hurried from the German front to defend Austria, but he was defeated at the Tagliamento on 16 March, and Napoleon proceeded into Austria, occupying Klagenfurt and preparing for a rendezvous with Joubert in front of Vienna. In Germany, the armies of Hoche and Moreau crossed the Rhine again in April after the previous year's failure. The victories of Napoleon had frightened the Austrians into making peace, and they concluded the Peace of Leoben in April, ending hostilities. However, his absence from Italy had allowed the outbreak of the revolt known as the Veronese Easters on 17 April, which was put down eight days later.\n\nAlthough Britain remained at war with France, this effectively ended the First Coalition. Austria later signed the Treaty of Campo Formio, ceding the Austrian Netherlands to France and recognizing the French border at the Rhine. Austria and France also partitioned Venice between them.\n\nWith only Britain left to fight and not enough of a navy to fight a direct war, Napoleon conceived of an invasion of Egypt in 1798, which satisfied his personal desire for glory and the Directory's desire to have him far from Paris. The military objective of the expedition is not entirely clear, but may have been to threaten British dominance in India.\n\nNapoleon sailed from Toulon to Alexandria, taking Malta on the way, and landing in June. Marching to Cairo, he won a great victory at the Battle of the Pyramids; however, his fleet was sunk by Nelson at the Battle of the Nile, stranding him in Egypt. Napoleon spent the remainder of the year consolidating his position in Egypt.\n\nThe French government also took advantage of internal strife in Switzerland to invade, establishing the Helvetian Republic and annexing Geneva. French troops also deposed Pope Pius VI, establishing a republic in Rome.\n\nAn expeditionary force was sent to County Mayo, in Ireland, to assist in the rebellion against Britain in the summer of 1798. It had some success against British forces, most notably at Castlebar, but was ultimately routed while trying to reach Dublin. French ships sent to assist them were captured by the Royal Navy off County Donegal.\n\nThe French were also under pressure in the Southern Netherlands and Luxembourg where the local people revolted against conscription and anti-religious violence (Peasants' War). The French had taken this territory in 1794, but it was officially theirs in 1797 due to a treaty with Austria. The French forces easily handed the Peasants' rebellion in the Southern Netherlands, and were able to put down the revolting forces in under 2 months.\n\nThe French in 1798 fought an undeclared war at sea against the United States, that was known variously as the \"Quasi-War\", the \"Half War\" and the \"Pirate Wars\". It was resolved peaceably with the Convention of 1800.\n\nBritain and Austria organized a new coalition against France in 1798, including for the first time the Russian Empire, although no action occurred until 1799 except against the kingdom of the Two Sicilies.\n\nIn Egypt, Napoleon had consolidated his control of the country for the time being. Soon after the beginning of the year, he mounted an invasion of Syria, capturing El Arish and Jaffa. On 17 March, he laid siege to Acre, and defeated an Ottoman effort to relieve the city at the Battle of Mount Tabor on 17 April. However, his repeated assaults on Acre were driven back by Ottoman and British forces under the command of Jezzar Pasha and Sir Sidney Smith. By May, with plague rampant in his army and no sign of success against the city, Napoleon was forced to retreat into Egypt. In July, Turkey, with the help of the British navy, mounted an invasion by sea from Rhodes. Napoleon attacked the Turkish beachheads and scored a crushing victory at the Battle of Abukir, capturing and killing the entire enemy army. In August, Napoleon decided to return to Europe, hearing of the political and military crisis in France. Leaving his army behind with Kléber in command, he sailed through the British blockade to return to Paris and resolved to take control of the government there in a coup.\n\nIn Europe, the French Army of Observation, organized with 30,000 men in four divisions, crossed the Rhine at Kehl and Basel in March 1799. The following day, it was renamed the Army of the Danube. Under command of Jourdan, the army advanced in four columns through the Black Forest. First Division, the right wing, assembled at Hüningen, crossed at Basel and advanced eastward along the north shore of the Rhine toward Lake Constance. The Advanced Guard crossed at Kehl, and Vandamme led it north-east through the mountains via Freudenstadt. This column eventually became the left flank. It was followed across the Rhine, also at Kehl, by the II. Division. The Third Division and the Reserve also crossed at Kehl, and then divided into two columns, III. Division traveling through the Black Forest via Oberkirch, and the Reserve, with most of the artillery and horse, by the valley at Freiburg im Breisgau, where they would find more forage, and then over the mountains past the Titisee to Löffingen and Hüfingen.\n\nThe major part of the imperial army, under command of the Archduke Charles', had wintered immediately east of the Lech, which Jourdan knew, because he had sent agents into Germany with instructions to identify the location and strength of his enemy. This was less than distant; any passage over the Lech was facilitated by available bridges, both of permanent construction and temporary pontoons and a traverse through friendly territory.\n\nIn March 1799, the Army of the Danube engaged in two major battles, both in the southwestern German theater. At the intensely fought Battle of Ostrach, 21–2 March 1799, the first battle of the War of the Second Coalition, Austrian forces, under the command of Archduke Charles, defeated Jourdan's Army of the Danube. The French suffered significant losses and were forced to retreat from the region, taking up new positions to the west at Messkirch (Mößkirch, Meßkirch), and then at Stockach and Engen. At the second battle, in Stockach, on 25 March 1799, the Austrian army achieved a decisive victory over the French forces, and again pushed the French army west. Jourdan instructed his generals to take up positions in the Black Forest, and he himself established a base at Hornberg. From there, General Jourdan relegated command of the army to his chief of staff, Jean Augustin Ernouf, and traveled to Paris to ask for more and better troops and, ultimately, to request a medical leave.\nThe Army was reorganized, and a portion placed under the command of André Masséna and merged with the Army of Helvetia. Following the reorganization and change in command, the Army participated in several skirmishes and actions on the eastern part of the Swiss Plateau, including the Battle of Winterthur. After this action, three forces of the imperial army united north of Zürich, completing a partial encirclement of Massena's combined Army of the Danube and Army of Switzerland. A few days later, at the First Battle of Zurich, Massena was forced west, across the Limmat. In late summer, 1799, Charles was ordered to support imperial activities in the middle Rhineland; he withdrew north across the Rhine, and marched toward Mannheim, leaving Zürich and northern Switzerland in the hands of the inexperienced Alexander Korsakov and 25,000 Russian troops. Although the highly capable Friedrich Freiherr von Hotze remained in support, his 15,000 men were not able to counter Korsakov's poor defensive arrangements. Three weeks later, at the Second Battle of Zurich, the Russian force was annihilated, and Hotze was killed south of Zürich. This left Massena in control of northern Switzerland, and closed forced Suvorov into an arduous three-week march into the Vorarlberg, where his troops arrived, starving and exhausted, in mid-October.\n\nNapoleon himself invaded Syria from Egypt, but after a failed siege of Acre retreated to Egypt, repelling a British-Turkish invasion. Alerted to the political and military crisis in France, he returned, leaving his army behind, and used his popularity and army support to mount a coup that made him First Consul, the head of the French government.\n\nIn Italy, the Austrians under General Melas attacked first, and by the third week in April had advanced to the Var, with Massena and half his army in Genoa besieged by land, by the Austrians and under tight blockade by the Royal Navy. In response Berthier moved – not to the threatened frontier, but to Geneva – and Massena was instructed to hold Genoa until 4 June. The Army of the Reserve was joined by Napoleon, and in mid-May set out to cross the Alps to attack the Austrian rear. The bulk of the army crossed by the Great St Bernard Pass, still under snow, and by 24 May 40,000 troops were in the valley of the Po. Artillery was man-hauled over with great effort and ingenuity; however an Austrian-held fort on the Italian side (although bypassed by infantry and cavalry) prevented most of the artillery reaching the plains of Northern Italy until the start of June.\n\nOnce over the Alps, Napoleon did not proceed directly to the relief of Genoa. Instead, he advanced on Milan, to improve his lines of communication (via the Simplon and St Gotthard passes) and to threaten Melas's lines of communication with Mantua and Vienna, in the belief that this would cause Melas to raise the siege of Genoa. He entered Milan on 2 June and by crossing to the South bank of the Po completely cut Melas's communications. Taking up a strong defensive position at Stradella, he confidently awaited an attempt by the Austrian Army to fight its way out.\n\nHowever, Melas had not raised the siege of Genoa, and on 4 June, Masséna had duly capitulated. Napoleon then faced the possibility that, thanks to the British command of the Mediterranean, far from falling back, the Austrians could instead take Genoa as their new base and be supplied by sea. His defensive posture would not prevent this; he had to find and attack the Austrians before they could regroup. He therefore advanced from Stradella towards Alessandria, where Melas was, apparently doing nothing. Convinced that Melas was about to retreat, Napoleon sent strong detachments to block Melas's routes northwards to the Po, and southwards to Genoa. At this point, Melas attacked, and for all the brilliance of the previous campaign, Napoleon found himself at a significant disadvantage in the consequent Battle of Marengo (14 June). Napoleon and the French came under huge pressure in the early hours of the battle. Melas believed he had already won and turned over delivery of the final blow to a subordinate. Suddenly, the prompt return of a detached French force under Desaix and a vigorous French counter-attack converted the battle into a decisive French victory. The Austrians lost half of their army, but Desaix was one of the French victims.\n\nMelas promptly entered into negotiations, which led to the Austrians evacuating Northern Italy west of the Ticino and suspending military operations in Italy. Napoleon returned to Paris after the victory, leaving Brune to consolidate in Italy and begin a march toward Austria.\n\nIn the German theater, the armies of France and Austria faced each other across the Rhine at the beginning of 1800. Feldzeugmeister Pál Kray led approximately 120,000 troops. In addition to his Austrian regulars, his force included 12,000 men from the Electorate of Bavaria, 6,000 troops from the Duchy of Württemberg, 5,000 soldiers of low quality from the Archbishopric of Mainz, and 7,000 militiamen from the County of Tyrol. Of these, 25,000 men were deployed east of Lake Constance (Bodensee) to protect the Vorarlberg. Kray posted his main body of 95,000 soldiers in the L-shaped angle where the Rhine changes direction from a westward flow along the northern border of Switzerland to a northward flow along the eastern border of France. Unwisely, Kray set up his main magazine at Stockach, near the northwestern end of Lake Constance, only a day's march from French-held Switzerland.\nGeneral of Division Jean Victor Marie Moreau commanded a modestly-equipped army of 137,000 French troops. Of these, 108,000 troops were available for field operations while the other 29,000 watched the Swiss border and held the Rhine fortresses. First Consul Napoleon Bonaparte offered a plan of operations based on outflanking the Austrians by a push from Switzerland, but Moreau declined to follow it. Rather, Moreau planned to cross the Rhine near Basel where the river swung to the north. A French column would distract Kray from Moreau's true intentions by crossing the Rhine from the west. Bonaparte wanted Claude Lecourbe's corps to be detached to Italy after the initial battles, but Moreau had other plans. Through a series of complicated maneuvers in which he flanked, double flanked, and reflanked Kray's army, Moreau's army lay on the eastern slope of the Black Forest, while portions of Kray's army was still guarded the passes on the other side. On 3 May 1800 Moreau and Kray fought battles at Engen and Stockach. The fighting near Engen resulted in a stalemate with heavy losses on both sides. However, while the two main armies were engaged at Engen, Claude Lecourbe captured Stockach from its Austrian defenders under Joseph, Prince of Lorraine-Vaudemont. The loss of this main supply base at Stockach compelled Kray to order a retreat to Messkirch, where they enjoyed a more favourable defensive position. However, it also meant that any retreat by Kray into Austria via Switzerland and the Vorarlberg was cut off.\n\nOn 4 and 5 May, the French launched repeated and fruitless assaults on the Messkirch. At nearby Krumbach, where the Austrians also had the superiority of position and force, the 1st Demi-Brigade took the village and the heights around it, which gave them a commanding aspect over Messkirch. Subsequently, Kray withdrew his forces to Sigmaringen, followed closely by the French. Fighting at nearby Biberach an der Ris ensued on 9 May; action principally consisted of the 25,000 man-strong French \"Center\", commanded by Laurent de Gouvion Saint-Cyr. After being flanked by General Moreau, who approached Ulm from the east and overwhelmed his outposts at Battle of Höchstädt, Kray retreated to Munich. Again, on 10 May, the Austrians withdrew with heavy losses, this time to Ulm.\n\nA several month armistice followed, during which Kray was replaced by the Archduke John, with the Austrian army retiring behind the river Inn. Austrian reluctance to accept negotiated terms caused the French to end the armistice in mid-November, effective in two weeks. When the armistice ended, John advanced over the Inn towards Munich. His army was defeated in small engagements at the battles of Ampfing and Neuburg an der Donau, and decisively in the forests before the city at Hohenlinden on 3 December. Moreau began a march on Vienna, and the Austrians soon sued for peace, ending the war on the continent.\n\nBy 9 February, the Austrians had signed the Treaty of Lunéville, ending the war on the continent. The war against the United Kingdom continued (with Neapolitan harbours closed to her by the Treaty of Florence, signed on 28 March), and the Turks invaded Egypt in March, losing to Kléber at Heliopolis. The exhausted French force in Egypt, however, surrendered in August.\n\nThe naval war also continued, with the United Kingdom maintaining a blockade of France by sea. Non-combatants Russia, Prussia, Denmark, and Sweden joined to protect neutral shipping from British attacks, but were unsuccessful. British Admiral Horatio Nelson defied orders and attacked the Danish fleet in harbor at the Battle of Copenhagen, destroying much of the fleet of one of France's more steady allies during the period. An armistice prevented him from continuing into the Baltic Sea to attack the Russian fleet at Reval (Tallinn). Meanwhile, off Gibraltar, the outnumbered French squadron under Linois rebuffed a first British attack under Saumarez in the First Battle of Algeciras, capturing a line-of-battle ship. In the Second Battle of Algeciras, four days later, the British captured a French ship and sank two others, killing around 2000 French for the loss of 12 British.\n\nIn 1802, the British and French signed the Treaty of Amiens, ending the war. The peace held for less than a year but still constituted the longest period of peace between the two countries during the period 1793–1815. The treaty is generally considered to be the most appropriate point to mark the transition between the French Revolutionary Wars and the Napoleonic Wars, although Napoleon was not crowned emperor until 1804.\n\nThe French Revolution transformed nearly all aspects of French and European life. The powerful sociopolitical forces unleashed by a people seeking liberté, égalité, and fraternité made certain that even warfare was not spared this upheaval. 18th-century armies—with their rigid protocols, static operational strategy, unenthusiastic soldiers, and aristocratic officer classes—underwent massive remodeling as the French monarchy and nobility gave way to liberal assemblies obsessed with external threats. The fundamental shifts in warfare that occurred during the period have prompted scholars to identify the era as the beginning of \"modern war\".\n\nIn 1791 the Legislative Assembly passed the \"Drill-Book\" legislation, implementing a series of infantry doctrines created by French theorists because of their defeat by the Prussians in the Seven Years' War. The new developments hoped to exploit the intrinsic bravery of the French soldier, made even more powerful by the explosive nationalist forces of the Revolution. The changes also placed a faith on the ordinary soldier that would be completely unacceptable in earlier times; French troops were expected to harass the enemy and remain loyal enough to not desert, a benefit other Ancien Régime armies did not have.\n\nFollowing the declaration of war in 1792, an imposing array of enemies converging on French borders prompted the government in Paris to adopt radical measures. 23 August 1793, would become a historic day in military history; on that date the National Convention called a levée en masse, or mass conscription, for the first time in human history. By summer of the following year, conscription made some 500,000 men available for service and the French began to deal blows to their European enemies.\n\nArmies during the Revolution became noticeably larger than their Holy Roman counterparts, and combined with the new enthusiasm of the troops, the tactical and strategic opportunities became profound. By 1797 the French had defeated the First Coalition, occupied the Low Countries, the west bank of the Rhine, and Northern Italy, objectives which had defied the Valois and Bourbon dynasties for centuries. Unsatisfied with the results, many European powers formed a Second Coalition, but by 1801 this too had been decisively beaten. Another key aspect of French success was the changes wrought in the officer classes. Traditionally, European armies left major command positions to those who could be trusted, namely, the aristocracy. The hectic nature of the French Revolution, however, tore apart France's old army, meaning new men were required to become officers and commanders.\n\nIn addition to opening a flood of tactical and strategic opportunities, the Revolutionary Wars also laid the foundation for modern military theory. Later authors that wrote about \"nations in arms\" drew inspiration from the French Revolution, in which dire circumstances seemingly mobilized the entire French nation for war and incorporated nationalism into the fabric of military history. Although the reality of war in the France of 1795 would be different from that in the France of 1915, conceptions and mentalities of war evolved significantly. Clausewitz correctly analyzed the Revolutionary and Napoleonic eras to give posterity a thorough and complete theory of war that emphasized struggles between nations occurring everywhere, from the battlefield to the legislative assemblies, and to the very way that people think. War now emerged as a vast panorama of physical and psychological forces heading for victory or defeat.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4892007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4892007", "title": "Gina Grant college admissions controversy", "text": "Gina Grant college admissions controversy\n\nGina Grant (born 1976) is an American woman who gained notoriety for receiving early admission to Harvard University, only to have it rescinded when it became known that she had killed her mother and had omitted this fact from her college application.\n\nGina Grant was the daughter of Charles Grant and Dorothy Mayfield, both of whom lived in Lexington, South Carolina. She had one sister, her elder by nine years. Gina's father died of lung cancer when Gina was 11 years old.\n\nAt the time of her crime, Grant was a juvenile so as per the law pertaining to minors, the criminal records are sealed. However, the Lexington County sheriff, James Metts—who handled the original case—released Grant's name immediately after her arrest. Thus, the facts of the case are available in copious newspaper and magazine articles published in the early 1990s.\n\nOn September 13, 1990, in Lexington, South Carolina, the 14-year-old Grant bludgeoned her mother 13 times with a crystal candlestick, crushing her skull. She mopped up pools of blood from the kitchen floor and hid the candlestick and bloody rags in a closet. She then tried to make the death look like suicide by sticking a carving knife into the side of her mother's neck, and wrapping her mother's fingers around the handle.\n\nGrant changed her story several times. Initially, she told police that her mother attacked her while holding a knife and then stabbed herself in the throat. When the candlestick was discovered, Grant changed her story, eventually telling the police that she had committed the killing in self-defense. She was charged with murder.\n\nIn mitigation, evidence suggested that Grant's mother was an alcoholic. Gina claimed that her mother had been physically abusive, to which Gina's sister attested. Grant pleaded no contest to voluntary manslaughter and was sentenced to a year in juvenile detention, with probation until age 18. Her boyfriend pleaded no contest to being an accessory to voluntary manslaughter after the fact and served nearly a year in juvenile detention.\n\nGrant was given permission by the juvenile court to relocate to Cambridge, Massachusetts, to live with a paternal aunt and uncle. She began attending Cambridge Rindge and Latin High School in 1992, where she excelled academically, tutored impoverished children, and was co-captain of the tennis team.\n\nIn January 1995 Grant was admitted to Harvard University, reportedly having told her Harvard interviewer that her mother had been killed in an accident.\nAfter she was featured in an April 2 \"Boston Globe\" article about students who had overcome difficult circumstances, Harvard and \"The Globe\" received anonymous communications containing old news articles about Grant's mother's death. Harvard rescinded Grant's admission the next day, referring only to a list of general reasons that admissions are sometimes rescinded. Harvard refused Grant's request to meet with the admissions committee.\n\nHer lawyer later argued that educational institutions are forbidden by Massachusetts law to ask about criminal matters not resulting in \"convictions\"juveniles are \"adjudicated delinquent\" rather than \"convicted\"and that she was not obliged to disclose an event that occurred when she was a juvenile and reflected only in her sealed juvenile record.\n\nSome campus publications sided with Grant, citing her mother's alcoholism and Grant's allegations of physical abuse. An editorial in \"The New York Times\", an article in the \"Chicago Tribune\",\nand Harvard professors Charles Ogletree and Alan Dershowitz also criticized Harvard's action.\n\nColumbia University and Barnard College also rescinded acceptances they had extended to Grant, but Tufts University allowed their acceptance of her to stand, and Grant entered Tufts as part of the Class of 1999.\n"}
{"id": "32199879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32199879", "title": "Golden Phoenix Awards", "text": "Golden Phoenix Awards\n\nGolden Phoenix Awards (), China's equivalent to the Screen Actors Guild Awards, is a bi-annual accolade given by the China Film Performance Art Academy to recognize outstanding performances in film. In 1987, the first annual awards ceremony held in Guangzhou.\n\nBecause the Society Award is the only regular category that judges the actors' performances, there are multiple winners in the category. Honorary Awards are given to actors aged 60–70, while the Lifetime Achievement Award is given to actors who are over 80 years old. Since 2005, actors from Taiwan and Hong Kong have also eligible for awards.\n\nThe statuette is in a shape of phoenix, designed by artist Han Meilin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "226188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=226188", "title": "Inauguration", "text": "Inauguration\n\nAn inauguration is a formal ceremony or special event to mark either:\n\nThe term, in a less formal context, can also be used to be refer to:\n\nThe historical source of the word “\"inauguration\"” stems from the Latin \"augur\", which refers to the rituals of ancient Roman priests seeking to interpret if it was the will of the gods for a public official to be deemed worthy to assume office.\n\nThe inaugurations of public figures, especially those of political leaders, often feature lavish ceremonies in which the figure publicly takes his or her oath of office (sometimes called \"swearing-in\"), often in front of a large crowd of spectators. A monarchical inauguration may take on different forms depending on the nation: they may undergo a coronation rite or may simply be required to take an oath in the presence of a country's legislature.\n\nThe \"inaugural address\" is a speech given during this ceremony which informs the people of his or her intentions as a leader. A famous inauguration speech is John F. Kennedy's.\n\nOther than personal inaugurations, the term can also refer to the official opening or beginning of an institution or structure, for example the inauguration of a new Canada–United States border crossing.\n\nAn \"inauguration site\" is a ceremonial site that is for someone of a public figure.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31448232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31448232", "title": "Innsbruck Festival of Early Music", "text": "Innsbruck Festival of Early Music\n\nThe Innsbruck Festival of Early Music (German: Innsbrucker Festwochen der Alten Musik) is a festival of historically informed performances of music from the late Renaissance, Baroque and early Classical periods which takes place annually in Innsbruck, Austria. It was founded in 1976.\n\nThe festival had its roots in 1963 when the Innsbruck musician Otto Ulf (1907–1993) organized a concert at the Ambras Castle to celebrate the 600th anniversary of Margaret, Countess of Tyrol's bequest of Tyrol to the Dukes of Austria. The Ambras Castle concerts continued over the years and in 1972, he initiated an International Summer Academy in the city. The festival itself was established in 1976 with Ulf as its artistic director. Beginning in 1977 with Handel's \"Acis and Galatea\", the festival's centerpiece has been the production of at least one baroque opera or oratorio. Since then it has played a pioneering role in the revival of Baroque opera. \n\nThe Belgian conductor and early music specialist René Jacobs had organized the festival's opera programme from 1991, and was artistic director of the entire festival from 1997 to 2009. In 2010, Alessandro De Marchi succeeded Jacobs as artistic director. Among the conductors who have appeared at the festival are Nikolaus Harnoncourt, Jordi Savall, Sigiswald Kuijken, John Eliot Gardiner and Alan Curtis.\n\n\"→ Main article: List of Innsbruck Festival of Early Music productions\"\n\nOperas which have been performed at the festival (many of them in their first performance in modern times) include Cesti's \"L'Orontea\" and \"L'Argia\", Cavalli's \"Giasone\" and \"Serse\", Conti's \"Don Chisciotte in Sierra Morena\", Sartorio's \"Giulio Cesare in Egitto\", Handel's \"Flavio\" and \"Rinaldo\", Telemann's \"Orpheus\"; Hasse's \"Solimano\", Haydn's \"Il mondo della luna\", Mozart's \"La finta semplice\", and Gassmann's \"L'opera seria\"\n\nThe festival's concerts are often centered on a particular theme. Among those presented in 2015 were \"Lachrimae\" (\"Tears\"), melancholy arias and songs from the Baroque and Renaissance periods, and \"Die Harfe der Kardinäle\" (\"The Cardinals' Harp\"), 17th-century songs to harp accompaniment composed under the patronage of Cardinals Barberini and Montalto. \nIn 2010, Alessandro De Marchi initiated the festival's \"International Singing Competition for Baroque Opera Pietro Antonio Cesti\". Named for Antonio Cesti, a 17th-century Italian singer and composer who served at the Innsbruck court of Archduke Ferdinand Charles, the competition is open to young singers specialising in the performance of Baroque opera and has a top prize of €4000. Selected finalists also perform the following year in the festival's \"Baroque Opera: Young\" (\"Barockoper: Jung\") production which takes place in the inner courtyard of the University of Innsbruck's Theology Faculty. Past \"Baroque Opera: Young\" productions have included Cesti's \"Orontea\", Lully's \"Armide\", and a double-bill of Purcell's \"Dido and Aeneas\" and Blow's \"Venus and Adonis\". Sebastian Schwarz, who has served as Chairman of the Jury was appointed General Director of Glyndebourne Festival Opera in November 2015.\nThe festival takes place in several historic venues and churches in and around the city of Innsbruck.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "363264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=363264", "title": "JATO Rocket Car", "text": "JATO Rocket Car\n\nThe account of the JATO Rocket Car was one of the original Darwin Awards winners: a man who supposedly met his death in a spectacular manner after mounting a JATO unit (a rocket engine used to help heavy aircraft to take off) onto an ordinary automobile. It was originally circulated as a forwarded email.\n\nIn 1996, after numerous inquires, the Arizona Department of Public Safety issued a news release posted on their website concerning the story. It termed the story \"an Arizona myth.\"\n\nThe story was also debunked in 2003 on the pilot episode of \"MythBusters\", titled \"Jet Assisted Chevy\".\n\nThis is the text as it appears, possibly most frequently, in usenet repostings:\n\nThe original Darwin Awards were fictitious. Both were contained in a 1990 Version posted to rec.motorcycles of the JATO Rocket Car urban legend. When this urban legend was debunked, it was specifically pointed out that the mentioned Darwin Awards were fictitious. It contained a reference to the 1985 mention of a Vending Machine Tipover Darwin Award. It was Paul Vixie who wrote this introduction to the JATO urban legend that first included the term \"Darwin Award\". Vixie credits Charles Haynes with making the (informal) Darwin Award Nomination, but it was Vixie's specific wording, with the first sentence crediting Haynes stripped off, that was actually circulated and actually referred to the Darwin Awards as if they actually existed and were common knowledge, though the message wasn't widely circulated until it was reformatted.\n\nIt remained fairly dormant until 1995, when the message surfaced again in rec.pyrotechnics with the email header stripped off the introduction, though the main story is still indented. Three days later the introduction is fully integrated into the story and it appeared on rec.humor in a form that made it a truly infectious meme. Shortly after it was reposted in 1995 it quickly began to spread, being posted on Usenet 24 times within the next month. In 1996 the legend was further embellished with references to the year of manufacture of the car and G-Forces and to the form which was widely circulated via email (55% of all postings on usenet which included \"JATO Rocket Darwin Award impala\" also included \"g-forces\".\n\nCult of the Dead Cow, a hacker group and ezine, published an extensive elaboration in 1998 that claims to explain how the story came into being, describing the most common details of the Rocket Car legend. Four males under 25 engaged in scouting, welding, drinking, and Rube Goldberg engineering to build a rocket rail car after they happened upon JATOs in a junk pile. Supposed author CarInTheCliff also describes the car's only test plus the elements he has added while discouraging repeats by example. In this account it is also claimed that the story had first circulated long before 1990.\n\nThe Darwin Awards meme was also spread by Wendy Northcutt, who collected the Darwin Awards on a public website in 1993, and circulated new stories in a regular newsletter.\n\nTo test the story – the very first myth they tackled – Jamie Hyneman and Adam Savage, with help from honorary MythBuster Erik Gates, procured a 1966 Chevrolet Impala, and after they were unable to obtain actual JATOs, they substituted three model rockets in succession to produce an equivalent amount of thrust (3000 horsepower for 15 seconds). They also installed a rocket rack and reinforced the car so that the rockets would not tear off the roof, and even made use of a hydraulic system that the previous owner had installed on the car to lower the front of the car and make it more aerodynamic. However, when tested in the Mojave Desert, the car did not go anywhere near the reported in the original story, and failed to become airborne.\n\nThe program has revisited the story twice, in 2007's \"Supersized Myths\" (the rockets exploded on the ramp) and their 10th Anniversary episode \"\". The 12 motors were built by John Newman, Rick Maschek, and others with one motor first being static tested, successfully, at the FAR site (Friends of Amateur Rocketry) to avoid another 'Episode 90' incident. On the two cars used, the motors were stacked vertically to keep the cars going straight in the event one or more of the motors did not ignite. The car was weighted towards the front in an attempt to improve its aerodynamic stability but no attempt was made to ensure the center of thrust (CoT) of the rocket pack was being applied through the center of gravity (CoG) of the car. The CoT proved to be far too high above the CoG causing the car to immediately nosedive as it left the ramp and smash into the ground. The still firing motors propelled the car up into the air a second time where it did a rotation until smashing into the ground.\n\nTo advertise the stopping power (rather than speed) of the 1958 Dodge Coronet's 'total contact' brakes, a JATO bottle was fitted to a Coronet and it was driven at speed across the El Mirage dry lake. This advert was broadcast during the Dodge-sponsored \"Lawrence Welk Show\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12229182", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12229182", "title": "Lamp At Midnight", "text": "Lamp At Midnight\n\nLamp At Midnight is a play that was written by Barrie Stavis, and first produced in 1947 at New Stages, New York. The play treats the 17th Century Galileo affair, which was a profound conflict between the Roman Catholic Church and Galileo Galilei over the interpretation of his astronomical observations using the newly invented telescope. By coincidence, Bertolt Brecht's play on the same theme, \"Galileo\", opened in New York just a few weeks before \"Lamp at Midnight\". Some critics now consider \"Galileo\" to be a masterpiece, but in 1947 the \"New York Times\" reviewer, Brooks Atkinson, preferred \"Lamp at Midnight\".\n\nA revival of \"Lamp at Midnight\" directed by Sir Tyrone Guthrie and starring Morris Carnovsky toured the United States in 1969.\n\nA television adaptation, directed by George Schaefer and starring Melvyn Douglas as Galileo, appeared in the \"Hallmark Hall of Fame\" series in 1966. A recording of the television performance was released to video in 1983.\n\n"}
{"id": "9934082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9934082", "title": "Latvian Song and Dance Festival", "text": "Latvian Song and Dance Festival\n\nThe Latvian Song and Dance Festival (Latvian \"Vispārējie latviešu Dziesmu un Deju svētki\") is one of the largest amateur choral and dancing events in the world and an important event in Latvian culture and social life. It is also a part of the UNESCO Masterpieces of the Oral and Intangible Heritage of Humanity list since 2008. The \"All-Latvian Song Festival\" has been held since 1873, normally every five years, with the Latvian Dance Festival component added in 1948. During the festivals exhibitions of photography, art and folk craft, orchestra concerts, and a festive parade also take place. Events and competitions leading up to the event occur throughout the period between festivals.\n\nApproximately 40,000 performers altogether participate in the event. Folk songs and classical choir songs are sung, with emphasis on a cappella singing, though modern popular songs have recently been incorporated into the repertoire as well.\n\nThe tradition of song festivals originated in the first half of the 19th century in many European countries and later was also organized by the Baltic Germans. The first steps taken in Latvian environment was during the song days in Dikļi in 1864, which led to the resounding of a full-scale song festival in Riga during the summer of 1873. 1003 singers and 30 orchestra players participated in the first festival. Only once has the festival been held outside Riga, in Jelgava in 1895.\n\nAfter the Soviet invasion and annexation of Latvia in 1940 and World War II, festivals were continued in the Latvian SSR, heavily influenced by Soviet ideology and used to praise the occupation regime. During the occupation the festival tradition was continued in exile, first in displaced persons camps after World War II, primarily in the western zones in Germany, then in the United States, Canada, and Australia. The Overseas Song and Dance Festival is currently held every four years, alternating between the United States and Canada.\n\nSince 1960, a distinct Latvian Youth Song and Dance Festival is held in an alternate five-year cycle, on a matching scale.\n\nThe 24th Festival was held in July 2008. The main events were held at the Mežaparks Great Bandstand and the Daugava Stadium in Riga.\n\nThe 25th Festival took place in July 2013.\n\nThe 26th Festival took place in 2018, marking the 100th anniversary of Latvian independence. The 27th edition will be held in July 2023, marking the festival's sequicentennial jubillee anniversary.\n\nAdditional festivals were held in 2001 and 2011, both on major anniversaries of the founding of Riga.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17090026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17090026", "title": "Los Angeles Women's Music Festival", "text": "Los Angeles Women's Music Festival\n\nThe Los Angeles Women's Music Festival was a 2007 Los Angeles based summer music festival that featured exclusively female solo artists and female-led bands.\n\nIn 2007, Los Angeles based female musicians Gayle Day, Miria (singer), Gilli Moon and Toni Koch, in partnership with Warrior Girl Music, SheJay, and Adventure Art Entertainment, produced the first women's music festival in Los Angeles. Inspired by Lilith Fair and held at Woodley Park (CA), home of WorldFest (LA), Los Angeles' largest Earth Day festival, the Los Angeles Women's Music Festival was an eco-music-fest featuring over 65 bands on 5 solar-powered stages, offering vegan, vegetarian and organic refreshments, and featuring pet adoptions, and was attended by over 2500 people. The Los Angeles Women's Music Festival also donated a percentage of proceeds to Los Angeles animal rescue groups. The festival was started in 2007 as an annual festival but was on hiatus during 2008 and was scheduled to return in 2009, although the latter event never materialized. As of 2015, it is on indefinite hiatus due to financial challenges.\n\nThe official theme of the 2007 Los Angeles Women's Music Festival was \"Females on Fire\" after Warrior Girl Music's compilation albums by the same name. The Females on Fire CD compilations also feature female solo artists and female-led bands.\n\nAlthough many performers were Los Angeles based female singer-songwriters, artists spanned a variety of genres and came from several countries. Performances were presented on five stages.\n\nAdditional performers included REMO drum circles, hula-hooping by Hoopaliscious, belly-dancing by L.A. Tribal and by Inanna, a gong bath by Yaelle Shaphir, bagpiping by Lorne Cousin, and additional performances by Brad Stubbs, Jumbo Shrimp, Spirit Soul Band, Hollywood the Clown, Alice Jones, author Ina Hillebrandt, and musicians Joy Krauthammer, and Miri Hunter.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1559837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1559837", "title": "Mi último adiós", "text": "Mi último adiós\n\nMi Último Adiós (English; “My Last Farewell”) is a poem written by Philippine national hero Dr. José Rizal on the eve of his execution by firing squad on 30 December 1896. The piece was one of the last notes he wrote before his death; another that he had written was found in his shoe but because the text was illegible, its contents today remain a mystery.\n\nMi Ultimo A Dios\n\n\"On the afternoon of Dec. 29, 1896, a day before his execution, Dr. José Rizal was visited by his mother, Teodora Alonzo, sisters Lucia, Josefa, Trinidád, Maria and Narcisa, and two nephews. When they took their leave, Rizal told Trinidád in English that there was something in the small alcohol stove (\"cocinilla\"), as opposed to saying coconut oil(\"lamparilla\"), which was intended provide cover for the transportation of the text. The stove was given to Narcisa by the guard when the party was about to board their carriage in the courtyard. At home, the Rizal ladies recovered from the stove a folded paper. On it was written an unsigned, untitled and undated poem of 14 five-line stanzas. The Rizals reproduced copies of the poem and sent them to Rizal's friends in the country and abroad. In 1897, Mariano Ponce in Hong Kong had the poem printed with the title \"Mi Ultimo Pensamiento.\" Fr. Mariano Dacanay, who received a copy of the poem while a prisoner in Bilibid (jail), published it in the first issue of \"La Independencia\" on Sept. 25, 1898 with the title 'Ultimo Adios'.\" \n\nRizal did not ascribe a title to his poem. Mariano Ponce, his friend and fellow reformist, titled it \"Mi Último Pensamiento\" (\"My Last Thought\") in the copies he distributed as part of an attempt to, but this did not catch on. Also, the \"coconut oil\" was not delivered to the Rizal's family until after the execution as it was required to light the cell.\n\nAfter it was annexed by the United States as a result of the Spanish–American War, the Philippines was perceived as a community of \"barbarians\" incapable of self-government. U.S. Representative Henry A. Cooper, lobbying for management of Philippine affairs, recited the poem before the United States Congress. Realising the nobility of the piece's author, his fellow congressmen enacted the Philippine Bill of 1902 enabling self-government (later known as the Philippine Organic Act of 1902), despite the fact that the 1882 Chinese Exclusion Act was still in effect and African Americans had yet to be granted equal rights as US citizens. It created the Philippine Assembly, appointed two Filipino delegates to the American Congress, extended the US Bill of Rights to Filipinos, and laid the foundation for an autonomous government. The colony was on its way to independence. although relatively complete autonomy would not be granted until 4 July 1946 by the Treaty of Manila.\n\nThe poem was translated into Bahasa Indonesia by Rosihan Anwar and was recited by Indonesian soldiers before going into battle during their struggle for independence.\nAnwar recalled the circumstances of the translation:\n\nHe read \"Mi último adiós\" over radio in Jakarta on Saturday, 30 December 1944–Rizal’s 48th death anniversary. That same day, the paper \"Asia Raja\" devoted almost half of its back page to a feature and poem on Rizal written by Anwar, accompanied by Anwar’s translation.\n\n\"Mi último adiós\" could be the most translated patriotic swan song in the world, and interpretations into 46 Philippine languages including Filipino Sign Language, and as of 2005 at least 35 English translations known and published (in print). The most popular English iteration is the 1911 translation of Charles Derbyshire and is inscribed on bronze. Also on bronze at the Rizal Park in Manila, but less known, is the 1944 one of novelist Nick Joaquin. The latest translation is in Czech by former Czech ambassador to the Republic of the Philippines, H.E. Jaroslav Ludva, and addressed at the session of the \"Senát\".\n\nAside from those mentioned above, the poem has been translated into at least 30 other languages:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24929275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24929275", "title": "Michael Sabo", "text": "Michael Sabo\n\nMichael Sabo (born 1945) is an American consultant and speaker on identity theft and fraud in the business and personal sectors. He is Executive Director of Prison Consultants of America, a resource for individuals charged with white-collar crime. Sabo was a longtime con artist and forger who was released from prison in 2009.\n\nSabo grew up in McKeesport, Pennsylvania, where he played high school football. He also earned credit toward a college degree while in the U.S. Army.\n\nBefore 2009, Sabo was best known for his history as a check, stocks and bonds forger, a master impostor, and as an escaped fugitive from federal custody. He became notorious in the 1970s and throughout the 1980s for successfully forging bank and government checks, as well as the forgery of stock and bond certificates.\n\nBy 1992, Sabo had been convicted of bank fraud, forgery of stocks and bonds, grand larceny, and identity theft, both in federal and state courts.\n\nIn 2009, Sabo was sentenced to a year in prison for impersonating an official from the Internal Revenue Service from 2004 to 2005. Sabo owed approximately $95,000 in federal income tax from 1994 to 1998, and the IRS placed tax liens on his property to force repayment. He fraudulently signed releases on the liens by pretending to be an IRS agent.\n\nHe has served a total of 14 years in federal and state prisons. He also had extensive plastic surgery performed while he was a fugitive.\n\nSabo resides in Louisville, Kentucky.\n"}
{"id": "10424341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10424341", "title": "More Love (Smokey Robinson and the Miracles song)", "text": "More Love (Smokey Robinson and the Miracles song)\n\n\"More Love\" is a 1967 hit single recorded by the American soul group The Miracles for Motown Records' Tamla label. The single, included on the group's 1967 album \"Make It Happen\", later reissued in 1970 as \"The Tears of a Clown\". Kim Carnes' husky 1980 cover of the song hit the Top 10 of \"Billboard\"s Adult Contemporary and Hot 100 charts.\n\nThis song's origins are born from real-life heartbreak and personal tragedy. Miracles lead singer Smokey Robinson wrote, produced, and sings lead on \"More Love\", which he considers one of his most personal compositions. Robinson wrote the song for his wife, Miracles member Claudette Rogers Robinson. Claudette had been a member of the Miracles since 1957, but retired from touring in 1964 after a series of miscarriages. She had a total of 8 miscarriages, which forced her off the road, never to tour with The Miracles again, though she continued to record with them. On one occasion, the Robinsons had a set of twins that were stillborn. According to Smokey Robinson:\n\n\"After she had a miscarriage [Claudette] would always tell me she was sorry she had let me down. I would explain that she had not let me down because she was there, she was alive; I wanted the babies, but I didn't know them. I wrote 'More Love' to let her know how I felt about her.\" \n\nUnlike most other Miracles songs, the track for \"More Love\" was recorded by Los Angeles session musicians, instead of in Detroit, Michigan by Motown session band The Funk Brothers and Miracles guitarist Marv Tarplin.\n\nSmokey and Claudette Robinson would eventually have two healthy babies, both named after aspects of the Motown corporation: a boy named Berry (after Motown founder Berry Gordy, Jr.) and a girl, Tamla, after the Miracles' record label, Tamla (the Motown Records' subsidiary label for which The Miracles recorded).\n\n\"More Love\" peaked at number 23 on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100 and number 19 on the \"Cash Box\" Top 100 in the United States, and was a Top 10 Billboard R&B hit, peaking at number five. Although not quite reaching the Pop Top 10 nationally, it was a regional smash, reaching #1 on the Cleveland Ohio Pop Charts for the week of August 11, 1967. The song's \"B\" side, \"Swept For You Baby\", was also a popular regional hit, and has inspired cover versions by The Sylvers, The Blenders, and The Tamlins (as \"Sweat For You Baby\"). In Canada, however, The Miracles' \"More Love\" became a Top 10 Pop hit, reaching number 8, charting higher than Kim Carnes' subsequent cover version in that country on the Pop and Adult Contemporary charts (#3) years later.\n\n\n\"More Love\" has been covered by several performers—among them Paul Young, Barbara McNair, and Mica Paris in her album Contribution. A 1976 version by Teena Marie is included in the 2011 \"First Class Love: Rare Tee\" compilation.\n\nThe most successful recording of \"More Love\" was a 1980 version by Kim Carnes, included on her album \"Romance Dance\". Carnes's remake of \"More Love\" peaked at number 10 on the Billboard Hot 100, spent two weeks at number 9 on the \"Cash Box\" Top 100, and reached number six on \"Billboard's\" Adult Contemporary chart. A Spanish language version of the song, \"Más Amor\", was also released in some territories in Latin America. The single was the first Top 10 U.S. solo hit for Carnes, formerly of The New Christy Minstrels. Despite \"More Love\" being a success, the follow-up single, \"Cry Like a Baby\", would miss the Top 40, peaking at number 44. This song would be Carnes' biggest solo hit until \"Bette Davis Eyes\".\n\n"}
{"id": "36915530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36915530", "title": "National Chocolate Day", "text": "National Chocolate Day\n\nThere are a variety of dates that have been designated as \"Chocolate Day\" around the world. The most commonly accepted such date is July 7. Various Chocolate Days have been called Local, National or International/World, including conflicting claims.\n\nThe U.S. National Confectioners Association lists four primary chocolate holidays on their calendar (Chocolate Day (July 7), two National Chocolate Days (October 28 and December 28), and International Chocolate Day (September 13)), in addition to variants such as National Milk Chocolate Day, National White Chocolate Day, and National Cocoa Day.\n\nInternational Chocolate Day coincides with the birth date of Milton S. Hershey (September 13, 1857), founder of The Hershey Chocolate Company.\n\n"}
{"id": "311735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=311735", "title": "Operation Blue Star", "text": "Operation Blue Star\n\nOperation Blue Star was an Indian military operation carried out between 1 and 8 June 1984, ordered by Prime Minister Indira Gandhi to remove militant religious leader Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale and his armed followers from the buildings of the Harmandir Sahib complex in Amritsar, Punjab. In July 1983, the Sikh political party Akali Dal's President Harchand Singh Longowal had invited Bhindranwale to take up residence in Golden Temple Complex to evade arrest. Bhindranwale later on made the sacred temple complex an armoury and headquarters. In the violent events leading up to the Operation Blue Star since the inception of Akali Dharm Yudh Morcha, the militants had killed 165 Hindus and Nirankaris; even 39 Sikhs opposed to Bhindranwale were killed. The total number of deaths was 410 in violent incidents and riots while 1,180 people were injured.\n\nCounter Intelligence reports of the Indian agencies had reported that three prominent heads of the Khalistan movement Shabeg Singh, Balbier Singh and Amrik Singh had made at least six trips each to Pakistan between the years 1981 and 1983. Intelligence Bureau reported that weapons training was being provided at gurdwaras in Jammu and Kashmir and Himachal Pradesh. Soviet intelligence agency KGB reportedly tipped off the Indian agency RAW about the CIA and ISI working together on a plan for Punjab. RAW from its interrogation of a Pakistani Army officer received information that over a thousand trained Special Service Group commandos of the Pakistan Army had been dispatched by Pakistan into the Indian Punjab to assist Bhindranwale in his fight against the government. Large number of Pakistani agents also took the smuggling routes in the Kashmir and Kutch region of Gujarat, with plans to sabotage.\n\nAfter the negotiations with the militants failed, on 1 June 1984 Indira Gandhi ordered the army to launch the Operation Blue Star. A variety of army units along with paramilitary forces surrounded the temple complex on 3 June 1984. The army used the public address systems and loudspeakers to encourage the militants to surrender. Requests were also made to the militants to allow the trapped pilgrims to come out of the temple premises, before the clash with the army. However no surrender or release of pilgrims happened till 7:00 pm on 5 June. The fighting started on 5 June with skirmishes and the battle went on for three days ending on 8 June. A clean-up operation codenamed as Operation Woodrose was also initiated throughout Punjab. \n\nThe army had underestimated the firepower possessed by the militants. Militants had Chinese made rocket-propelled grenade launchers with armour piercing capabilities. Tanks and heavy artillery were used to attack the militants using anti-tank and machine-gun fire from the heavily fortified Akal Takht. After a 24-hour firefight, the army wrested control of the temple complex. Casualty figures for the Army were 83 dead and 249 injured. According to the official estimates, 1592 were apprehended and there were 493 combined militant and civilian casualties. High civilian casualties were attributed to militants using pilgrims trapped inside the temple as human shields.\n\nThe military action in the temple complex was criticized by Sikhs worldwide who had interpreted it as an assault on Sikh religion. Many Sikh soldiers in the Army deserted their units, several Sikhs resigned from civil administrative office and returned awards received from the Indian government. Nearly five months after the operation, on 31 October 1984, Indira Gandhi was assassinated in vengeance by her two Sikh bodyguards, Satwant Singh and Beant Singh. Public outcry over Gandhi's death led to the killings of more than 3,000 Sikhs in the ensuing 1984 anti-Sikh riots.\n\nThe militants were able to claim a safe haven in the most sacred place for the Sikhs due to the whole or part support received by them from the key sikh religious leaders and institutions such as the SGPC, AISSF and Jathedar (head) of the Akal Takht. The support was either voluntary or forced by using violence or threat of violence. Several religious leaders who spoke against the occupation of Akal Takht were murdered by followers of Bhindranwale.\n\nThe Golden temple complex afforded the militants based inside a facade of fighting a \"holy war\". It also provided the militants access to new potential recruits from among the visitors. Several multi storied buildings were located around the Parikrama (walkway) around the reservoir of the temple that provided rooms and offices that were taken over by the militants. The temple complex also provided logistical advantage to the militants with easy access to food, water and communication lines. Further the sanctity of the Golden temple provided protection from arrests by the security forces who preferred not to enter the Temple premises so as not to hurt the religious sentiments of the Sikhs.\n\nOn 13 April 1978, the day to celebrate the birth of Khalsa, a peaceful Sant Nirankari convention was organized in Amritsar, with permission from the Akali state government. The practices of \"Sant Nirankaris\" sect of Nirankaris was considered as heresy by the orthodox sikhism expounded by Bhindranwale. Bhindranwale declared that he would not allow this convention and would \"go there and cut them to pieces.\" A procession of few hundred Sikhs led by Bhindranwale and Fauja Singh of the Akhand Kirtani Jatha left the Golden Temple, heading towards the Nirankari Convention. Fauja attempted to behead Nirankari chief Gurbachan Singh but was shot dead by his bodyguard, while Bhindranwale escaped. In the ensuing violence, several people were killed: two of Bhindranwale's followers, eleven members of the Akhand Kirtani Jatha and three Nirankaris. Bhindranwale's followers began keeping firearms and fortified the Gurdwara that served as the headquarter of religious center Damdami Taksal.\n\nOn 24 April 1980, The Nirankari head, Gurbachan was murdered. Bhindranwale took residence in Harmandir Sahib when he was accused of the assassination of Nirankari Gurbachan Singh. Police could not pursue him inside the Golden temple premises for fear of hurting the religious setiments of the Sikh community.\n\nOn 9 September 1981, Lala Jagat Narain, the founder editor of the newspaper Punjab Kesari, was murdered. He was viewed as a supporter of the Nirankari sect and had written several editorials that had condemned the acts of Bhindranwale. Bhindranwale declared that the killers of Gurbachan and Lala deserved to be rewarded. Police again suspected Bhindranwale in the editor's murder and issued a warrant for his arrest. On 20 September 1981, after absconding for several days, Bhindranwale surrendered to the police. His followers in order to obtain his release initiated a month long campaign of violence. They attacked Hindus, derailed trains, and even hijacked an Air India Plane He was released on 20 October after Home Minister of India declared lack of evidence.\n\nBhindranwale had risen to prominence in the Sikh political circle with his policy of getting the Anandpur Resolution passed, failing which he wanted to declare a separate country of Khalistan as a homeland for Sikhs. Indira Gandhi, the leader of the Akali Dal's rival Congress, considered the Anandpur Sahib Resolution as a secessionist document. The Government was of the view that passing of the resolution would have allowed India to be divided, making a Khalistan.\n\nBhindranwale was reportedly backed by Pakistan's ISI on his radical separatist stand, plans and operations. Bhindranwale had started the efforts for his demand in 1982, and by mid-1983 had managed to gain support for his plan to divide India. ISI reportedly supported and helped him in spreading militancy in the Indian Punjab state. The arms and ammunition used by his group were provided by ISI.\n\nIn July 1982, the then President of Shiromani Akali Dal, Harchand Singh Longowal invited Bhindranwale to take up residence at the Golden Temple complex to escape arrest. He called Bhindranwale \"our stave to beat the government.\" On 19 July 1982, Bhindranwale anticipating his imminent arrest took shelter with approximately 200 armed followers, in the Guru Nanak Niwas (Guest house), in the precincts of the Golden Temple. Bhindranwale had made Golden Temple complex his headquarters. From here he met and was interviewed by international television crews.\n\nOn 23 April 1983, the Punjab Police Deputy Inspector General A. S. Atwal was shot dead as he left the Harmandir Sahib compound by a gunman from Bhindranwale's group. The following day, after the murder, Longowal claimed the involvement of Bhindranwale in the murder. Reportedly, militants responsible for bombings and murders were taking shelter in some gurdwaras in Punjab. Punjab assembly noted that the murder in the temple premises confirmed the charges that the extremists were being sheltered and given active support in religious places and the Guru Nanak Niwas. While Bhindranwale was openly supporting such elements. However, the Congress-led government declared that it could not enter the gurdwaras for the fear of hurting Sikh sentiments. After the murder of six Hindu bus passengers in October 1983, President's rule was imposed in Punjab.\n\nDuring the debate in the Parliament of India members of both the houses demanded the arrest of Bhindranwale. Sensing a prospect of his arrest from the hostel premises, he convinced the SGPC president Tohra to set up his headquarter in Akal Takht (Shrine representing the temporal power of God) in the Golden temple. The temple high priest protested this move as a sacrilege since no Guru or leader ever resided in Akal Takht that too on the floor above Granth Sahib but Tohra agreed to Bhindranwale's demand to prevent his arrest. On 15 December 1983, Bhindranwale was asked to move out of Guru Nanak Niwas house by members of the Babbar Khalsa who acted with Longowal's support. Babbar Khalsa had also the support of the Congress party. Longowal by now feared for his own safety. Tohra then convinced the high priest to allow Bhindranwale to reside in the first floor of Akal Takht as he had nowhere to go to avoid arrest. Bhindranwale had assumed that the sacredness of the shrine would provide him immunity from arrest. Bhindranwale claimed that he had to move to Akal Takht as Morcha dictator Longowal was negotiating with the government for his arrest. By December 1983, Bhindranwale and his followers had made the Golden Temple complex an armoury and headquarter for extremist activities.\n\nFew leaders raised their voice against Bhindranwale in the Golden Temple and other Gurudwaras across the state. Among the prominent ones was Giani Partap Singh, an eighty year old spiritual leaders and a former Jathedar of the Akal Takht, Partap had openly criticized Bhindranwale for stocking arms and ammunition in the Akal Takht. Bhindranwale's occupation of the Akal Takht was called an act of sacrilege. Partap was shot dead at his home in Tahli Chowk. Other dissenters were also killed. They included Harbans Singh Manchanda, the Delhi Sikh Gurudwara Management Committee president, Niranjan Singh, the Granthi of Gurudwara Toot Sahib, Granthi Jarnail Singh of Valtoha and Granthi Surat Singh of Majauli. All those who spoke against Bhindranwale were perceived as his enemies who in turn were branded as enemies of the Sikh faith. Bhindranwale's group were killing the Sikhs who had been speaking against Bhindranwale and the idea of Khalistan. The Sikh religious leadership had heard and understood the message being spread and they had already succumbed to their fear.\n\nIn January 1984, India's secret service Research & Analysis Wing (RAW) prepared a covert plan codenamed Operation Sundown involving special forces to abduct Bhindranwale from the Golden Temple complex. A RAW unit was formed to rehearse Operation Sundown in the Sarsawa Air Force Base in Uttar Pradesh. But the operation never materialized due to Indira Gandhi’s rejection. It would have caused numerous casualties as collateral damage, the Golden Temple being one of the most visited sites in Punjab. It would have also hurt the religious sentiments of the Sikhs. Other options such as negotiations were opted for instead.\n\nThe government sent a team led by Narasimha Rao to try to convince Bhindranwale to back out but he was adamant. The negotiations failed and the law and order situation in Punjab continued to deteriorate. Indira Gandhi tried to persuade the Akalis to support her in the arrest of Bhindranwale peacefully. These talks ended up being futile. During the days before the assault, government representatives met with Bhindranwale in a last ditch effort to negotiate a truce. Bhindranwale warned of a backlash by the Sikh community in the event of an armed assault on the Golden Temple. On 26 May, Tohra informed the government that he had failed to convince Bhindranwale for a peaceful resolution of the crisis and that Bhindranwale was no longer under anyone's control. Faced with imminent Army action and with the foremost Sikh political organisation, Shiromani Akali Dal (headed by Harchand Singh Longowal), abandoning him, Bhindranwale declared \"This bird is alone. There are many hunters after it\". In his final interview to Subhash Kirpekar, Bhindranwale stated that \"Sikhs can neither live in India nor with India.\"\n\nIndira Gandhi then gave her permission to initiate Operation Blue Star on the recommendation of Army Chief Arun Shridhar Vaidya. She was apparently led to believe and had assumed that Operation Blue Star would not involve any civilian casualties. The assumption was that when confronted Bhindranwale would surrender to the Army.\n\nThe violence rose to its peak in the months before Operation Bluestar and the Golden Temple was allegedly being defiled with weapons. An arsenal had been created within the Akal Takht over a period of several months. Trucks engaged for kar seva (religious service) and bringing in supplies for the daily langar were smuggling in guns and ammunition. The police never attempted to check these vehicles entering the Golden Temple, reportedly on instructions from superiors. During a random check one such truck was stopped and a large number of sten guns and ammunition were found. Later on after the operation Blue Star it was found that the militants had set up a ‘grenade manufacturing’ facility, and a workshop for the fabrication of sten-guns inside the Temple Complex. \n\nHarmandir Sahib compound and some of the surrounding houses were fortified under the guidance of Major General Shabeg Singh who had joined Bhindranwale's group after dismissal from Army. During their occupation of Akal Takht, Bhindranwale's group had initated fortifying the building which had allegedly disfigured the Akal Takht. \"The Statesman\" reported that light machine guns and semi-automatic rifles were known to have been brought into the compound, and strategically placed to defend an armed assault on the complex. The modern weapons found inside the temple complex later indicated that foreign elements were involved. The heavier weapons were found with the Pakistan or Chinese markings on them.\n\nHoles were smashed through the marble walls of Akal takht to create gun positions. Walls were broken to allow entry points from the basements in the Takht and from the rooms around the Parikrama, to the tiled courtyards. Secured machine gun 'nests' were made. Each of these ‘positions’ were protected by sandbags and newly made brick walls. The windows and arches of Akal Takht were blocked with bricks and sand bags. Sandbags were placed on the turrets. The entire Akal Takht had been converted into a large reinforced pillbox with weapons pointing all the directions. Every strategically significant building of the temple complex, apart from the Harmandir Sahib located at its very centre had been fortified in a similar manner and allegedly defaced. The fortifications also included seventeen private houses in the residential area near the Temple. All the high rise buildings and towers near the temple complex were occupied. The militants manning these vantage points were in wireless contact with Shabeg Singh in Akal Takht. Under the military leadership of the cashiered Major General Shabeg Singh, ex-Army veterans and deserters had provided weapons training to Bhindranwale’s men in the Temple Complex. Young Sikhs were occupying firing positions in the shrine and the buildings on all sides of Akal Takht. \n\nThe militants in the complex were anticipating an attack by the government troops. The defences in the complex were created with a purpose of holding out long enough to provoke an uprising among Sikhs in the villages so that they march enmasse towards the Golden temple in support of the militants. Sufficient food that would have lasted a month was stocked in the complex.\n\nDuring this period police and the security forces stationed around the Temple Complex were allowed only beyond a sanitised area of more than 200 yards. This was to avoid the ‘desecration’ of the temple by their presence. The security forces were prevented by the politicians to take actions in enforcing the law. Even self defence from the miltants was made difficult. On February 14, 1984, a police post near the entrance of the Temple was attacked by a group of militants. Six fully armed policemen were 'captured' and taken inside. After twenty four hours the police responded and sent in a senior police officer for negotiation. He asked Bhindranwale in the Akal Takht to release his men and return their weapons. Bhindranwale agreed only to return the corpse of one of the policemen who had been killed. Later the remaining five policemen who were still alive were also released, but their weapons, including three sten guns, and a wireless set, were not returned.\n\nThe fortifications of the temple denied Army the possibility of commando operation. The buildings were close by and had labyrinthine passages all under the control of the militants. Militants in the temple premises had access to Langars food supplies and water from the Sarovar (temple pond). Militants were well stocked with weapons and ammunitions. Any siege under these circumstances would have been long and difficult. The option of laying over a long siege was ruled out by the Army due to the risk of emotionally aroused villagers marching to the temple and clashing with the Army. The negotiated settlement had already been rejected by Bhindranwale and the only option left to the government was to raid the temple.\n\nOn 12th May 1984, Ramesh Chander, Son of Lala Jagat Narain and editor of media house Hind Samachar group was also murdered by the militants of Bhindranwale. In addition, seven editors and seven news hawkers and newsagents were also killed in a planned attack on the freedom of media house to cripple it financially. Punjab Police had to provide protection to the entire distribution staff and scenes of armed policemen escorting news hawkers on their morning rounds became common.\n\nBhindranwale used vituperative language in his speeches against the Hindus. In order to solve the Hindu-Sikh problem Bhindranwale exhorted every Sikh to kill thirty-two Hindus. Bhindranwale had injuncted young Sikhs to buy motorcycles and weapons to attack enemies of Sikhs, and many young Sikhs followed this. The terror had spread to all of the countryside. The numbers of violent incidents were increasing every month. It was nine in September 1983, in October it increased to thirty six and in May 1984 there were more than fifty violent incidents. These incidents included bank robberies, attack on police, arson at railway stations, bombings, indiscriminate shootings and killing of Hindu bus passengers forcibly taken out of the bus. In the twenty two months since the launching of the Akali Dharm Yudh Morcha till June 1984, Bhindranwale's militants had already killed 165 Hindus and Nirankaris per the official figures. Militants had also killed 39 Sikhs due to their opposition to Bhindranwale. The total number of deaths was 410 in violent incidents and riots while 1,180 people were injured. \n\nBy April 1984, it appeared as if Bhindranwale would be successful in driving away the Hindus from Punjab to Haryana and other states due to the terror of violent attacks and riots. There were intelligence reports of interception of messages from Bhindranwale and Shabeg Singh to their followers in the state asking them to start a fierce movement of mass killings of Hindus on 5 June. According to Amarjit Kaur, Bhindranwale wanted to start a civil war between the Hindus and Sikhs. Meanwhile, the killing rate had been rising all over the state, with sometimes more than a dozen killings in a day. On 2 June in the last 24 hours before the announcement of the operation 23 people were killed.\n\nIn June 1984, the Army was called out to help the civil administration in Punjab in response to a request from the Punjab Governor, B. D. Pande, \"“in view of the escalating violence by terrorists in Punjab.”\" On 2 June Operation Bluestar had been initated to flush out the militants from the Golden Temple.\n\nCertain radical groups had already started the movement to drive out Hindus from certain areas to make way for Sikhs coming in from other states. Due to the increased incidents of religious violence, exchange of population had already started in Punjab. The Sikhs from other states were moving into Punjab and the Punjabi Hindus were moving to neighbouring states in increasing numbers. New Khalistani currency was being printed and distributed. By May 1984, the declaration of Independence of Khalistan was imminent. Pakistan had been supporting the militants with arms and money. Once Khalistan would have got declared, there was the risk of Pakistan recognizing the new country and sending Pakistani Army into Indian Punjab to guarantee its security.\n\nOperation Blue Star was launched to remove Jarnail Singh Bhindranwale and his followers who had sought cover in the Amritsar Harmandir Sahib Complex. \n\nOn 3 June, a 36-hour curfew was imposed on the state of Punjab with all methods of communication and public travel suspended. The electricity supply was also interrupted, creating a total blackout and cutting off the state from the rest of the world. Complete media censorship was enforced.\n\nThe Army stormed Harmandir Sahib on the night of 5 June under the command of Kuldip Singh Brar. The forces had full control of Harmandir Sahib by the morning of 7 June. There were casualties among the Army, civilians, and militants. Sikh leaders Bhindranwale and Shabeg Singh were killed in the operation.\n\nThe armed Sikhs within the Harmandir Sahib were led by Bhindranwale, former Maj. Gen. Shabeg Singh and Amrik Singh the President of the All India Sikh Students Federation from Damdami Taksal.\n\nGeneral Arun Shridhar Vaidya as the Chief of the Indian army. General Vaidya, assisted by Lt. Gen. Sundarji as Vice-Chief, planned and coordinated Operation Blue Star. From the Indian Army Lt. Gen. Kuldip Singh Brar had command of the action, operating under General Krishnaswamy Sundarji. Brar was in charge of an infantry division at Meerut. On 31 May Lt. General K S Brar had been summoned from Meerut and asked to lead the operation to remove the militants from the temple. Brar was a Jat Sikh, same caste as Bhindranwale and had his ancestral village a few miles from Bhindranwale’s village. Brar was also acquainted with Shabeg Singh as his student at the Indian Military Academy at Dehradun. Both of them had worked together in the Bangladesh operations. Among the six generals leading the operation, four were Sikhs.\n\nThe Army operation was further subdivided along two subcategories:\n\n\nIn addition, another critical Operation Woodrose was done, under which the army units were deployed in the border areas, replacing the pickets routinely held by the paramilitary BSF. The border pickets held by at least a company strength.\n\nAt 12:40 hrs the CRPF and BSF started firing at \"Guru Ram Das Langar\" building. The Border Security Force and the Central Reserve Police Force, under orders of the Army, started firing upon the Complex, in which at least eight people died.\n\nThe Army had already sealed the international border from Kashmir to Ganga Nagar, Rajasthan. At least seven divisions of Army were deployed in villages of Punjab. Army began taking control of the city of Amritsar from the paramilitary. A young Sikh officer posing as a pilgrim was sent to the temple for scouting. He spent an hour in the complex noting the defence preparations in the complex. Plans were made to clear the vantage points outside the complex which were occupied by the miltants, before the assault. Patrols were also sent to study these locations.\n\nBy nightfall media and the press were gagged and rail, road and air services in Punjab were suspended. Foreigners' and NRIs' entry was also banned. General Gauri Shankar was appointed as the Security Advisor to the Governor of Punjab. The water and electricity supply was cut off.\n\nIn the morning the curfew was relaxed to allow the Sikh pilgrims to go inside the temple to celebrate Sikhism’s fifth guru Arjan's martyrdom day who died in the early 17th century. Around 200 young Sikhs were allowed to escape from the temple premises during this period. Most of whom were criminals and left wing extremists (naxalites). \nIn the night the curfew was re-imposed with the Army and para-military patrolling all of Punjab. The Army sealed off all routes of ingress and exit around the temple complex.\n\nOn 4 and 5 June announcements were broadcast over loudspeakers and the pilgrims inside were asked to leave the temple. The Army started bombarding the historic Ramgarhia Bunga, the water tank, and other fortified positions. The Army used Ordnance QF 25 pounder and destroyed the outer defences laid by Shabeg Singh. The Army then placed tanks and APCs on the road separating the Guru Nanak Niwas building.\n\nThe Army helicopters spotted the massive movements, and General K. Sunderji sent tanks and APCs to meet them.\n\nThe artillery and small arms firing stopped for a while, and Gurcharan Singh Tohra, former head of SGPC was sent to negotiate with Bhindranwale for his surrender. He was, however, unsuccessful and the firing resumed.\n\nIn the morning, shelling started on the building inside the Harmandir Sahib complex. The 9th division launched a frontal attack on the Akal Takht, although it was unable to secure the building. The Golden temple complex had honey combed tunnel structures. The Army was kept under withering machine gun fire from the manholes of the tunnels. The militants would pop out of the manholes and fire machineguns and then disappear back into the tunnels. \n\n19:00 hrs \n\nThe BSF and CRPF attacked Hotel Temple View and Brahm Boota Akhara respectively on the southwest fringes of the complex. By 22:00 hours both the structures were under their control. The Army simultaneously attacked various other gurdwaras. Sources mention either 42 or 74 locations.\n\n22:00–07:30 hrs\n\nLate in the evening, the generals decided to launch a simultaneous attack from three sides. 10 Guards, 1 Para Commandos and Special Frontier Force (SFF) would attack from the main entrance of the complex, and 26 Madras and 9 Kumaon battalions from the hostel complex side entrance from the south. The objective of the 10 Guards was to secure the northern wing of the Temple complex and draw attention away from SFF who were to secure the western wing of the complex and 1 Para Commandos who were to gain a foothold in Akal Takht and in Harmandir Sahab, with the help of divers. 26 Madras was tasked with securing the southern and the eastern complexes, and the 9 Kumaon regiment with SGPC building and Guru Ramdas Serai. 12 Bihar was charged with providing a cordon and fire support to the other regiments by neutralising enemy positions under their observance.\n\nAn initial attempt by the commandos to gain a foothold at Darshani Deori failed as they came under devastating fire, after which several further attempts were made with varying degrees of success. Eventually, other teams managed to reach Darshani Deori, a building north of the Nishan Sahib, and started to fire at the Akal Takth and a red building towards its left, so that the SFF troops could get closer to the Darshani Deori and fire gas canisters at Akal Takth. The canisters bounced off the building and affected the troops instead.\n\nMeanwhile, 26 Madras and 9 Garhwal Rifles (reserve troops) had come under heavy fire from the Langar rooftop, Guru Ramdas Serai and the buildings in the vicinity. Moreover, they took a lot of time in forcing open the heavy Southern Gate, which had to be shot open with tank fire. This delay caused a lot of casualties among the Indian troops fighting inside the complex. Three tanks and an APC had entered the complex.\n\nCrawling was impossible as Shabeg Singh had placed light machine guns nine or ten inches above the ground. The attempt caused many casualties among the Indian troops. A third attempt to gain the Pool was made by a squad of 200 commandos. On the southern side, the Madras and Garhwal battalions were not able to make it to the pavement around the pool because they were engaged by positions on the southern side.\n\nDespite the mounting casualties, General Sunderji ordered a fourth assault by the commandos. This time, the Madras battalion was reinforced with two more companies of the 7th Garhwal Rifles under the command of General Kuldip Singh Brar. However, the Madras and Garhwal troops under Brigadier A. K. Dewan once again failed to move towards the parikarma (the pavement around the pool).\n\nBrigadier Dewan reported heavy casualties and requested more reinforcements. General Brar sent two companies of 15 Kumaon Regiment. This resulted in yet more heavy casualties, forcing Brigadier Dewan to request tank support. As one APC inched closer to the Akal Takth it was hit with an anti-tank RPG, which immediately immobilized it. Brar also requested tank support. The tanks received the clearance to fire their main guns (105 mm high-explosive squash head shells) only at around 7:30 a.m.\n\nVijayanta tanks shelled the Akal Takht. It suffered some damage but the structure was still standing. The Commanders in charge of the operation were shocked by this discovery that Militants in Akal Takhts had two Chinese made Rocket-propelled grenade launchers with armour piercing capabilities.\n\nThe Army entered the Akal Takht. Dead bodies of Bhindranwale, Shabeg Singh and Amrik Singh were discovered in the building. The Army gained effective control of the Harmandir Sahib complex.\n\nThe Army fought about four Sikhs holed up in basement of a tower. A colonel of the commandos was shot dead by an LMG burst while trying to force his way into the basement. By the afternoon of 10 June, the operation was over.\n\nThe Indian Army placed total casualties at:\n\nUnofficial casualty figures were higher. Bhindranwale and large number of his militants were killed. There were high civilian casualties as well, since militants used pilgrims trapped inside the temple as human shields. The pilgrims were not allowed by the militants to escape from the temple premises in spite of relaxation in the curfew hours by the security forces. The militants hoped the presence of thousands of pilgrims inside the temple premises would prevent action by the army.\n\nPresident Zail Singh visited the temple premises after the operation, while making the round, he was shot at by a sniper from one of the buildings that the Army had not yet cleared. The bullet hit the arm of an Army Colonel accompanying the president. The operation also led to the assassination of Prime Minister Indira Gandhi on 31 October 1984 by two of her Sikh bodyguards as an act of vengeance, triggering the 1984 anti-Sikh riots. The widespread killing of Sikhs, principally in the national capital Delhi but also in other major cities in North India, led to major divisions between the Sikh community and the Indian Government. The Army withdrew from Harmandir Sahib later in 1984 under pressure from Sikh demands. The 1985 bombing of Air India Flight 182 is thought to have been a revenge action.\n\nGeneral Arun Shridhar Vaidya, the Chief of Army Staff at the time of Operation Blue Star, was assassinated in 1986 in Pune by two Sikhs, Harjinder Singh Jinda and Sukhdev Singh Sukha. Both were sentenced to death, and hanged on 7 October 1992.\n\nIn March 1986, Sikh militants again occupied and continued to use the temple compound which necessitated another police action known as Operation Black Thunder on 1 May 1986, Indian paramilitary police entered the temple and arrested 200 militants that had occupied Harmandir Sahib for more than three months. On 2 May 1986 the paramilitary police undertook a 12-hour operation to take control of Harmandir Sahib at Amritsar from several hundred militants, but almost all the major radical leaders managed to escape.\nIn June 1990, the Indian government ordered the area surrounding the temple to be vacated by local residents in order to prevent militants activity around the temple.\n\nIn the aftermath of the Operation Blue Star, cases of mutinies by Sikh soldiers, mostly raw recruits, were reported from different places. On 7 June, six hundred soldiers of the 9th Battalion of the Sikh Regiment, almost the entire other ranks' strength, mutinied in Sri Ganganagar. While some managed to escape to Pakistan, most were rounded up by men of Rajputana Rifles. The largest mutiny took place in Sikh Regimental Centre at Ramgarh in Bihar where recruits for the Sikh Regiment are trained. There, 1461 soldiers - 1050 of them raw recruits, stormed the armoury, killing one officer and injuring two before they set out for Amritsar. The leaders of the mutiny divided the troops into two groups just outside of Banaras to avoid a rumoured roadblock. One half was engaged by Army artillery at Shakteshgarh railway station; those who managed to escape were rounded up by 21st Mechanised Infantry Regiment. The other half engaged with the artillery and troops of 20th Infantry Brigade, during which 35 soldiers (both sides) were killed. There were five more smaller mutinies in different parts of India. In total 55 mutineers were killed and 2,606 were captured alive.\n\nThe captured mutineers were court-martialed, despite efforts by various groups including retired Sikh officers to get them reinstated. In August 1985, 900 of the 2,606 mutineers were rehabilitated by the Central government as part of the Rajiv-Longowal accord.\n\nThe long-term results of the operation included:\n\nThe operation has been criticised on several grounds including: the government's choice of timing for the attack, the heavy casualties, the loss of property, and allegations of human rights violations.\n\nOperation Blue Star was planned on a Sikh religious day — the martyrdom day of Guru Arjan Dev, the founder of the Harmandir Sahib. Sikhs from all over the world visit the temple on this day. Many Sikhs view the timing and attack by the Army as an attempt to inflict maximum casualties on Sikhs and demoralise them, and the government is in turn blamed for the inflated number of civilian casualties by choosing to attack on that day. Additionally, Longowal had announced a statewide civil disobedience movement that would launch on 3 June 1984. Participants planned to block the flow of grain out of Punjab and refuse to pay land revenue, water and electricity bills.\n\nThe Government justified the timing stating that the mission to arrest Bhindranwale could not be delayed any more as he was going to be more aggressive in his approach towards killings of Hindus. Bhindranwale was about to launch a fierce movement planned to murder Hindus in all the villages across Punjab. Plans included killings of All congress (I) MPs and MLAs on 5th June. According to Amarjit Kaur, Bhindranwale wanted to start a civil war between the Hindus and Sikhs. Before the Operation Blue Star started, there was already a rise in the killings of Hindus and 23 people were killed in the final 24 hours before the announcement of the operation. The spate in killings confirmed the doubts of the government which then decided that the operation had to be initiated soon.\n\nWhen asked about why the Army entered the temple premises just after Guru Arjan Dev's martyrdom day (when the number of devotees is much higher), General Brar said that it was just a coincidence and Army had only had three to four days to complete the operation. Based on the intelligence sources Bhindranwale was planning to declare Khalistan an independent country any moment with support from Pakistan. Khalistani currency had already been distributed. This declaration would have increased chances of Punjab Police and security personnel siding with Bhindranwale. The Army waited for the surrender of militants on the night of June 5 but the surrender did not happen. The operation had to be completed before dawn. Otherwise, exaggerated messages of Army besieging the temple would have attracted mobs from nearby villages to the temple premises. The Army could not have fired upon these civilians. More importantly, Pakistan would have come in the picture, declaring its support for Khalistan. He described the operation as traumatic and painful, but necessary.\n\nBefore the attack by the Army, a media blackout was imposed in Punjab. \"The Times\" reporter Michael Hamlyn reported that journalists were picked up from their hotels at 5 a.m. in a military bus, taken to the adjoining border of the state of Haryana and \"were abandoned there.\" The main towns in Punjab were put under curfew, transportation was banned, a news blackout was imposed, and Punjab was \"cut off from the outside world.\" A group of journalists who later tried to drive into Punjab were stopped at the road block at Punjab border and were threatened with being shot if they proceeded. Indian nationals who worked with the foreign media also were banned from the area. The press criticized these actions by government as an \"obvious attempt to attack the temple without the eyes of the foreign press on them.\" The media blackout throughout Punjab resulted in spread of rumours. The only available source of information during the period was All India Radio and the Doordarshan channel.\n\nThe militants used pilgrims trapped inside the temple as human shields, to prevent the attack by the army. The civilians were prevented from leaving the complex during the ease in curfew. This led to large number of civilian deaths. \n\nOn 6th of June, a group of some 350 people, including Longowal and Tohra surrendered to the Army near the Guru Nanak Niwas. To prevent their surrender to the security forces the miltants opened fire and hurled grenades on the group. 70 people were killed in this firing, including 30 women and 5 children. Gurcharan Singh, Secretary of the Akali Dal and a prominent member of the Longowal faction, was also killed.\n\nTwo Junior Commissioned Officers of the Army were captured by the miltants during the fight and were subjected to torture and then murdered. The miltants skinned one of them alive, strapped explosives on to his body, and blew him up while throwing him from the upper floor of the Akal Takht. \n\nOn June 8, 1984, an unarmed army doctor who had entered a basement to treat some civilian casualties was abducted by the militants and was hacked to death.\n\nBrahma Chellaney, the Associated Press's South Asia correspondent, was the only foreign reporter who managed to stay on in Amritsar despite the media blackout. His dispatches, filed by telex, provided the first non-governmental news reports on the bloody operation in Amritsar. His first dispatch, front-paged by \"The New York Times\", \"The Times of London\" and \"The Guardian\", reported a death toll about twice of what authorities had admitted. According to the dispatch, about 780 militants and civilians and 400 troops had perished in fierce gun-battles. Chellaney reported that about \"eight to 10\" men suspected Sikh militants had been shot with their hands tied. In that dispatch, Mr. Chellaney interviewed a doctor who said he had been picked up by the Army and forced to conduct postmortems despite the fact he had never done any postmortem examination before. In reaction to the dispatch, the Indian government charged Chellaney with violating Punjab press censorship, two counts of fanning sectarian hatred and trouble, and later with sedition, calling his report baseless and disputing his casualty figures. The Supreme Court of India ordered Chellaney to cooperate with Amritsar police, who interrogated him concerning his report and sources. Chellaney declined to reveal his source, citing journalistic ethics and the constitutional guarantee of freedom of the press. In September 1985 charges against Chellaney were dropped. The Associated Press stood by the accuracy of the reports and figures, which were \"supported by Indian and other press accounts\".\n\nSimilar accusations of highhandedness by the Army and allegations of human rights violations by security forces in Operation Blue Star and subsequent military operations in Punjab have been leveled by Justice V. M. Tarkunde, Mary Anne Weaver, human rights lawyer Ram Narayan Kumar, and anthropologists Cynthia Mahmood and Joyce Pettigrew.\n\nThe Indian Army responded to this criticism by stating that they \"answered the call of duty as disciplined, loyal and dedicated members of the Armed Forces of India. . . our loyalties are to the nation, the armed forces to which we belong, the uniforms we wear and to the troops we command\".\n\nFive years later, the Army's strategy was criticised by comparing it with the blockade approach taken by KPS Gill in Operation Black Thunder, when Sikh militants had again taken over the temple complex. It was said that Operation Blue Star could have been averted by using similar blockade tactics. The Army responded by stating that \"no comparison is possible between the two situations\", as \"there was no cult figure like Bhindranwale to idolise, and no professional military general like Shahbeg Singh to provide military leadership\" and \"the confidence of militants having been shattered by Operation Blue Star.\" Furthermore, it was pointed out that the separatists in the temple were armed with machine guns, anti tank missiles and Chinese made armour piercing rocket launchers, and that they strongly resisted the Army's attempts to dislodge them from the shrine, appearing to have planned for a long standoff, having arranged for water to be supplied from wells within the temple compound and had stocked food provisions that could have lasted months.\n\nThe soldiers and generals involved in the Operation were presented with gallantry awards, honours, decoration strips and promotions by the Indian president Zail Singh, a Sikh, in a ceremony conducted on 10 July 1985. The act was criticized by authors and activists such as Harjinder Singh Dilgeer, who accused the troops of human rights violations during the operation.\n\nThe United Kingdom's Thatcher government was reportedly aware of the Indian government's intention to storm the temple, and had provided an SAS officer to advise the Indian authorities. This and other assistance was reportedly intended to safeguard the UK's arms sales to India. Relevant UK government records have been censored.\n\n\"Operation Blue Star and the assassination of Indira Gandhi\" (2013) is a TV documentary which premièred on ABP News Channel series, Pradhanmantri. This documentary, directed by Puneet Sharma and narrated by Shekhar Kapur, showed the circumstances preceding the Operation Blue Star and the events that occurred during it including the aftermath.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28116099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28116099", "title": "Operation Infektion", "text": "Operation Infektion\n\nOperation INFEKTION was a disinformation campaign run by the KGB in the 1980s to spread information that the United States invented HIV/AIDS as part of a biological weapons research project at Fort Detrick, Maryland. The Soviet Union used it to undermine the United States' credibility, foster anti-Americanism, isolate America abroad, and create tensions between host countries and the U.S. over the presence of American military bases (which were often portrayed as the cause of AIDS outbreaks in local populations).\n\nAccording to U.S. State Department analysts, another reason the Soviet Union \"promoted the AIDS disinformation may have been its attempt to distract international attention away from its own offensive biological warfare program, which [was monitored] for decades.\" In addition to anthrax, the Soviets were believed to have developed tularemia, the plague, and cholera for biological warfare purposes, as well as botulinum toxin, enterotoxins, and mycotoxins. An alternative explanation is that the operation may have been in retaliation for American accusations that the Soviets used chemical weapons in Southeast Asia, later dubbed the yellow rain incident.\n\nThe groundwork appeared in the pro-Soviet Indian newspaper \"Patriot\" which, according to a KGB defector named Ilya Dzerkvelov, was set up by the KGB in 1962 for the sheer purpose of publishing disinformation. An anonymous letter was sent to the editor in July 1983 from a \"well-known American scientist and anthropologist\" who claimed that AIDS was manufactured at Fort Detrick by genetic engineers. The \"scientist\" claimed that \"that deadly mysterious disease was believed to be the results of the Pentagon's experiments to develop new and dangerous biological weapons,\" and implicated CDC scientists sent to Africa and Latin America to find dangerous viruses alien to Asia and Europe. These results were purportedly analyzed in Atlanta and Fort Detrick and thus the \"most likely course of events\" leading to the development of AIDS.\n\nThe campaign started in earnest in October 1985 after the story was ignored for two years, with the original article being republished by Soviet newspaper \"Literaturnaya Gazeta\". To lend credence, the Soviet Union used a pseudo-scientific paper written in 1986 by a retired Russian-born East German biophysicist named Dr. Jakob Segal, co-authored by his wife, Dr. Lilli Segal; and Dr. Ronald Dehmlow at Humboldt University of East Berlin. The report was quoted heavily by Soviet propagandists, and the Segals (who were educated in France) were often said to be French researchers in order to hide their connections with communism. Dr. Segal postulated that the AIDS virus was synthesized by combining parts of two distantly related retroviruses: VISNA and HTLV-1. An excerpt of the Segal report is as follows: \n\nElsewhere in the report, Segal said that his hypothesis was based purely on assumptions, extrapolations, and hearsay and not at all on direct scientific evidence.\n\nThe AIDS story exploded across the world, and was repeated by Soviet newspapers, magazines, wire services, radio broadcasts, and television. It appeared 40 times in Soviet media in 1987 alone. It received coverage in over 80 countries in more than 30 languages, primarily in leftist and communist media publications, and was found in countries as widespread as Bolivia, Grenada, Pakistan, New Zealand, Nigeria, and Malta. A few versions made their way into non-communist press in Indonesian and Philippine press.\n\nDissemination was usually along a recognized pattern: propaganda and disinformation would first appear in a country outside of the USSR and only then be picked up by a Soviet news agency, which attributed it to others' investigative journalism. That the story came from a foreign source (not widely known to be Soviet controlled or influenced) added credibility to the allegations, especially in impoverished and less educated countries which generally could not afford access to Western news satellite feeds. To aid in media placement, Soviet propaganda was provided free of charge, and many stories came with cash benefits. This was particularly the case in India and Ghana, where the Soviet Union maintained a large propaganda and disinformation apparatus for covert media placement.\n\nTo explain how AIDS outbreaks were simultaneously so prevalent in Africa, the Moscow World Service announced that Soviet correspondent Aleksandr Zhukov discovered that in the early 1970s, a Pentagon-controlled West German lab in Zaire \"succeeded in modifying the non-lethal Green Monkey virus into the deadly AIDS virus.\" Radio Moscow also claimed that instead of testing a cholera vaccine, American scientists were actually infecting unwitting Zairians, thus spreading it throughout the continent. These scientists were unaware of the long period before symptom onset, and resumed experimentation on convicts upon return to the U.S., where it then spread when the prisoners escaped.\n\nClaims that the CIA had sent \"AIDS-oiled condoms\" to other countries sprang up independently in the African press, well after the operation was started. In 1987, a book (\"Once Again About the CIA\") was published by the Novosti Press Agency, with the quote: \n\nThe resulting public backlash eventually closed down the legitimate medical research center. Soviet allegations declared the purpose of these research projects, to include that of AIDS, was to \"enlarge the war arsenal.\"\n\nIronically, many Soviet scientists were soliciting help from American researchers to help address the Soviet Union's burgeoning AIDS problem, while stressing the virus' natural origins. The U.S. refused to help as long as the disinformation campaign continued. The Segal Report and the plenitude of press articles were dismissed by both Western and Soviet virologists as nonsense.\n\nDr. Meinrad Koch, a West Berlin AIDS expert, stated in 1987 that the Segal report was \"utter nonsense\" and called it an \"evil pseudo-scientific political concoction.\" Other scientists also pointed out flaws and inaccuracies in the Segal Report, including Dr. Viktor Zhdanov of the Ivanovsky Institute of Virology in Moscow, who was the top Soviet AIDS expert at the time. The president of the Soviet Academy of Medical Sciences clearly stated that he believed the virus to be of natural origin. Other scientists and doctors from Paris, East and West Berlin, India, and Belgium called the AIDS rumors lies, scientifically unfounded, and otherwise impossible to seriously consider. Although Segal himself never said \"this is fact\" and was very careful to maintain this line throughout his report, \"such technical qualifiers do not diminish the impact of the charges, however, because when they are replayed, such qualifiers are typically either omitted or overlooked by readers or listeners.\"\n\nU.S. Embassy officials wrote dozens of letters to various newspaper editors and journalists, and held meetings and press conferences to clarify matters. Many of their efforts resulted in newspapers printing retractions and apologies. Rebuttals appeared in reports to Congress and from the State Department saying that it was impossible at the time to build a virus as complex as AIDS; medical research had only gotten so far as to clone simple viruses. Antibodies were found decades earlier than the reported research started, and the main academic source used for the story (Segal's Report) contained inaccuracies about even such basic things as American geography—Segal said that outbreaks appeared in New York City because it was the closest big city to Fort Detrick. Philadelphia, Baltimore, and Washington, D.C. are all closer, while New York is away.\n\nThe Gorbachev administration also responded indignantly and launched a defensive denial campaign \"aimed at limiting the damage done to its credibility by U.S. efforts to raise world consciousness concerning the scope of Soviet disinformation activities.\" The Soviet Union interfered with general attempts by U.S. Embassy officials to address misconceptions and expose the Soviet disinformation campaign, to include placing pressure on news agencies that recanted their position. For example, \"Literaturnaya Gazeta\" on December 3, 1986, castigated a Brazilian newspaper which earlier in the year had run a retraction following its publication of the AIDS disinformation story. In 1987, Moscow's Novosti news agency disseminated a report datelined Brazzaville (Congo), calling on the West to put an end to the \"anti-African campaign,\" and repeating the charges that the virus was created in US military laboratories\" while in 1986 \"Literaturnaya Gazeta\" warned specifically against contact with Americans.\n\nIn 1988, \"Sovetskaya Rossiya\" put out an article defending their right to report different views. The chief of Novosti stated that it drew upon foreign sources for much of the AIDS coverage, and that the press was free under glasnost. \n\nThe Mitrokhin Archive reveals that \n\nThe campaign faded from most Soviet media outlets, but it occasionally resurfaced abroad in third-world countries as late as 1988, usually via press placement agents.\n\nIn 1992, 15% of Americans considered it definitely or probably true that \"the AIDS virus was created deliberately in a government laboratory.\" In 2005, a study by the RAND Corporation and Oregon State University revealed that nearly 50% of African Americans thought AIDS was man-made, over 25% believed AIDS was a product of a government laboratory, 12% believed it was created and spread by the CIA, and 15% believed that AIDS was a form of genocide against black people. Other AIDS conspiracy theories have abounded, and have been discredited by the mainstream scientific community.\n\nIn 1992, KGB Director Yevgeny Primakov admitted that the KGB was behind the newspaper articles claiming that AIDS was created by the U.S. government. Segal's role was exposed by KGB defector Vasili Mitrokhin in the Mitrokhin Archive. The 1999 book \"Stasi: The Untold Story of the East German Secret Police\" describes how the Stasi cooperated with the KGB to spread the story.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46783147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46783147", "title": "Oppenheimer (play)", "text": "Oppenheimer (play)\n\nOppenheimer was a 2015 play on the life of J. Robert Oppenheimer by the British writer Tom Morton-Smith. It premiered with the Royal Shakespeare Company in Stratford-upon-Avon from 15 January to 7 March 2015, transferring to the Vaudeville Theatre in London from 27 March to 23 May - Oppenheimer was played by John Heffernan.\n"}
{"id": "1393034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1393034", "title": "Perioperative mortality", "text": "Perioperative mortality\n\nPerioperative mortality has been defined as any death, regardless of cause, occurring within 30 days after surgery in or out of the hospital. An important consideration in the decision to perform any surgical procedure is to weigh the benefits against the risks. Anesthesiologists and surgeons employ various methods in assessing whether a patient is in optimal condition from a medical standpoint prior to undertaking surgery, and various statistical tools are available. ASA score is the most well known of these.\n\nImmediate complications during the surgical procedure, e.g. bleeding or perforation of organs may have lethal sequelae.\n\nCountries with a low human development index (HDI) carry a disproportionately greater burden of surgical site infections (SSI) than countries with a middle or high HDI and might have higher rates of antibiotic resistance. In view of the World Health Organization (WHO) recommendations on SSI prevention that highlight the absence of high-quality interventional research, urgent, pragmatic, randomised trials based in LMICs are needed to assess measures aiming to reduce this preventable complication.\n\nLocal infection of the operative field is prevented by using sterile technique, and prophylactic antibiotics are often given in abdominal surgery or patients known to have a heart defect or mechanical heart valves that are at risk of developing endocarditis.\n\nMethods to decrease surgical site infections in spine surgery include skin preparation, use of surgical drains, prophylactic antibiotics, and vancomycin. Preventative antibiotics may also be effective.\n\nWhether any specific dressing has an effect on the risk of surgical site infection of a wound that has been sutured closed is unclear.\n\nExamples are deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism, the risk of which can be mitigated by certain interventions, such as the administration of anticoagulants (e.g., warfarin or low molecular weight heparins), antiplatelet drugs (e.g., aspirin), compression stockings, and cyclical pneumatic calf compression in high risk patients.\n\nMany factors can influence the risk of postoperative pulmonary complications (PPC). (A major PPC can be defined as a postoperative pneumonia, respiratory failure, or the need for reintubation after extubation at the end of an anesthetic. Minor post-operative pulmonary complications include events such as atelectasis, bronchospasm, laryngospasm, and unanticipated need for supplemental oxygen therapy after the initial postoperative period.) Of all patient-related risk factors, good evidence supports patients with advanced age, ASA class II or greater, functional dependence, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and congestive heart failure, as those with increased risk for PPC. Of operative risk factors, surgical site is the most important predictor of risk for PPCs (aortic, thoracic, and upper abdominal surgeries being the highest-risk procedures, even in healthy patients. The value of preoperative testing, such as spirometry, to estimate pulmonary risk is of controversial value and is debated in medical literature. Among laboratory tests, a serum albumin level less than 35 g/L is the most powerful predictor and predicts PPC risk to a similar degree as the most important patient-related risk factors.\n\nRespiratory therapy has a place in preventing pneumonia related to atelectasis, which occurs especially in patients recovering from thoracic and abdominal surgery..\n\nStrokes occur at a higher rate during the postoperative period.\n\nIn people with cirrhosis, the perioperative mortality is predicted by the Child-Pugh score.\n\nPostoperative fevers are a common complication after surgery and can be a hallmark of a serious underlying sepsis, such as pneumonia, urinary tract infection, deep vein thrombosis, wound infection, etc. However, in the early post-operative period a low-level fever may also result from anaesthetic-related atelectasis, which will usually resolve normally.\n\nMost perioperative mortality is attributable to complications from the operation (such as bleeding, sepsis, and failure of vital organs) or pre-existing medical conditions.. In high-resource health care systems, statistics are often kept by mandatory reporting of perioperative mortality. These may then be used in league tables that compare the quality of hospitals. Critics of this system point out that perioperative mortality may not reflect poor performance but could be caused by other factors, e.g. a high proportion of acute/unplanned surgery, or other patient-related factors. Most hospitals have regular meetings to discuss surgical complications and perioperative mortality. Specific cases may be investigated more closely if a preventable cause has been identified.\n\nGlobally, there are few studies comparing perioperative mortality across different health systems. One major prospective study of 10,745 adult patients undergoing emergency abdominal surgery from 357 centres in 58 high-, middle-, and low-income countries found that mortality is three times higher in low- compared with high-HDI countries even when adjusted for prognostic factors. In this study the overall global mortality rate was 1·6 per cent at 24 hours (high 1·1 per cent, middle 1·9 per cent, low 3·4 per cent; P < 0·001), increasing to 5·4 per cent by 30 days (high 4·5 per cent, middle 6·0 per cent, low 8·6 per cent; P < 0·001). Of the 578 patients who died, 404 (69·9 per cent) did so between 24 h and 30 days following surgery (high 74·2 per cent, middle 68·8 per cent, low 60·5 per cent). Patient safety factors were suggested to play an important role, with use of the WHO Surgical Safety Checklist associated with reduced mortality at 30 days.\n\nTaking a similar approach, a unique global study of 1,409 children undergoing emergency abdominal surgery from 253 centres in 43 countries showed that adjusted mortality in children following surgery may be as high as 7 times greater in low-HDI and middle-HDI countries compared with high-HDI countries, translating to 40 excess deaths per 1000 procedures performed in these settings. Internationally, the most common operations performed were appendectomy, small bowel resection, pyloromyotomy and correction of intussusception. After adjustment for patient and hospital risk factors, child mortality at 30 days was significantly higher in low-HDI (adjusted OR 7.14 (95% CI 2.52 to 20.23), p<0.001) and middle-HDI (4.42 (1.44 to 13.56), p=0.009) countries compared with high-HDI countries.\n\nMortality directly related to anesthetic management is less common, and may include such causes as pulmonary aspiration of gastric contents, asphyxiation and anaphylaxis. These in turn may result from malfunction of anesthesia-related equipment or more commonly, human error. A 1978 study found that 82% of preventable anesthesia mishaps were the result of human error.\n\nIn a 1954 review of 599,548 surgical procedures at 10 hospitals in the United States between 19481952, 384 deaths were attributed to anesthesia, for an overall mortality rate of 0.064%. In 1984, after a television program highlighting anesthesia mishaps aired in the United States, American anesthesiologist Ellison C. Pierce appointed a committee called the Anesthesia Patient Safety and Risk Management Committee of the American Society of Anesthesiologists. This committee was tasked with determining and reducing the causes of peri-anesthetic morbidity and mortality. An outgrowth of this committee, the Anesthesia Patient Safety Foundation was created in 1985 as an independent, nonprofit corporation with the vision that \"no patient shall be harmed by anesthesia\".\n\nThe current mortality attributable to the management of general anesthesia is controversial. Most current estimates of perioperative mortality range from 1 death in 53 anesthetics to 1 in 5,417 anesthetics. The incidence of perioperative mortality that is directly attributable to anesthesia ranges from 1 in 6,795 to 1 in 200,200 anesthetics. There are some studies however that report a much lower mortality rate. For example, a 1997 Canadian retrospective review of 2,830,000 oral surgical procedures in Ontario between 19731995 reported only four deaths in cases in which either an oral and maxillofacial surgeon or a dentist with specialized training in anesthesia administered the general anesthetic or deep sedation. The authors calculated an overall mortality rate of 1.4 per 1,000,000. It is suggested that these wide ranges may be caused by differences in operational definitions and reporting sources.\n\nThe largest study of postoperative mortality was published in 2010. In this review of 3.7 million surgical procedures at 102 hospitals in the Netherlands during 19912005, postoperative mortality from all causes was observed in 67,879 patients, for an overall rate of 1.85%.\n\nAnaesthesiologists are committed to continuously reducing perioperative mortality and morbidity. In 2010, the principal European anaesthesiology organisations launched The Helsinki Declaration for Patient Safety in Anaesthesiology, a practically-based manifesto for improving anaesthesia care in Europe.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23688", "title": "Perjury", "text": "Perjury\n\nPerjury is the intentional act of swearing a false oath or falsifying an affirmation to tell the truth, whether spoken or in writing, concerning matters material to an official proceeding. In some jurisdictions, contrary to popular misconception, no crime has occurred when a false statement is (intentionally or unintentionally) made while under oath or subject to penalty. Instead, criminal culpability attaches only at the instant the declarant falsely asserts the truth of statements (made or to be made) that are material to the outcome of the proceeding. For example, it is not perjury to lie about one's age except if age is a fact material to influencing the legal result, such as eligibility for old age retirement benefits or whether a person was of an age to have legal capacity.\n\nPerjury is considered a serious offense, as it can be used to usurp the power of the courts, resulting in miscarriages of justice. In the United States, for example, the general perjury statute under federal law classifies perjury as a felony and provides for a prison sentence of up to five years. The California Penal Code allows for perjury to be a capital offense in cases causing wrongful execution. Perjury which caused the wrongful execution of another or in the pursuit of causing the wrongful execution of another is respectively construed as murder or attempted murder, and is normally itself punishable by execution in countries that retain the death penalty. Perjury is considered a felony in most U.S. states as well as most Australian states. In Queensland, under Section 124 of the Queensland Criminal Code Act 1899, perjury is punishable by up to life in prison if it is committed to procure an innocent person for a crime that is punishable by life in prison. However, prosecutions for perjury are rare. In some countries such as France and Italy, suspects cannot be heard under oath or affirmation and so cannot commit perjury, regardless of what they say during their trial.\n\nThe rules for perjury also apply when a person has made a statement \"under penalty of perjury\" even if the person has not been sworn or affirmed as a witness before an appropriate official. An example is the US income tax return, which, by law, must be signed as true and correct under penalty of perjury (see ). Federal tax law provides criminal penalties of up to three years in prison for violation of the tax return perjury statute. See: \n\nStatements that entail an \"interpretation\" of fact are not perjury because people often draw inaccurate conclusions unwittingly or make honest mistakes without the intent to deceive. Individuals may have honest but mistaken beliefs about certain facts or their recollection may be inaccurate, or may have a different perception of what is the accurate way to state the truth. Like most other crimes in the common law system, to be convicted of perjury one must have had the \"intention\" (\"mens rea\") to commit the act and to have \"actually committed\" the act (\"actus reus\"). Further, statements that \"are facts\" cannot be considered perjury, even if they might arguably constitute an omission, and it is not perjury to lie about matters that are immaterial to the legal proceeding.\n\nIn the United States, Kenya, Scotland and several other English-speaking Commonwealth nations, subornation of perjury, which is attempting to induce another person to commit perjury, is itself a crime.\n\nThe offence of perjury is codified by section 132 of the Criminal Code. It is defined by section 131, which provides:\n\nAs to corroboration, see section 133.\n\nMode of trial and sentence\n\nEvery one who commits perjury is guilty of an indictable offence and liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding fourteen years.\n\nA person who, before the Court of Justice of the European Union, swears anything which he knows to be false or does not believe to be true is, whatever his nationality, guilty of perjury. Proceedings for this offence may be taken in any place in the State and the offence may for all incidental purposes be treated as having been committed in that place.\n\nPerjury is a statutory offence in England and Wales. It is created by section 1(1) of the Perjury Act 1911. Section 1 of that Act reads:\n\nThe words omitted from section 1(1) were repealed by section 1(2) of the Criminal Justice Act 1948.\n\nA person guilty of an offence under section 11(1) of the European Communities Act 1972 may be proceeded against and punished in England and Wales as for an offence under section 1(1).\n\nSection 1(4) has effect in relation to proceedings in the Court of Justice of the European Communities as it has effect in relation to a judicial proceeding in a tribunal of a foreign state.\n\nSection 1(4) applies in relation to proceedings before a relevant convention court under the European Patent Convention as it applies to a judicial proceeding in a tribunal of a foreign state.\n\nA statement made on oath by a witness outside the United Kingdom and given in evidence through a live television link by virtue of section 32 of the Criminal Justice Act 1988 must be treated for the purposes of section 1 as having been made in the proceedings in which it is given in evidence.\n\nSection 1 applies in relation to a person acting as an intermediary as it applies in relation to a person lawfully sworn as an interpreter in a judicial proceeding; and for this purpose, where a person acts as an intermediary in any proceeding which is not a judicial proceeding for the purposes of section 1, that proceeding must be taken to be part of the judicial proceeding in which the witness’s evidence is given.\n\nWhere any statement made by a person on oath in any proceeding which is not a judicial proceeding for the purposes of section 1 is received in evidence in pursuance of a special measures direction, that proceeding must be taken for the purposes of section 1 to be part of the judicial proceeding in which the statement is so received in evidence.\n\nJudicial proceeding\n\nThe definition in section 1(2) is not \"comprehensive\".\n\nThe book \"Archbold\" said that it appears to be immaterial whether the court, before which the statement is made, has jurisdiction in the particular cause in which the statement is made, because there is no express requirement in the Act that the court be one of \"competent jurisdiction\" and because the definition in section 1(2) does not appear to require this by implication either.\n\nActus reus\n\nThe actus reus of perjury might be considered to be the making of a statement, whether true or false, on oath in a judicial proceeding, where the person knows the statement to be false or believes it to be false.\n\nPerjury is a conduct crime.\n\nMode of trial\n\nPerjury is triable only on indictment.\n\nSentence\n\nA person convicted of perjury is liable to imprisonment for a term not exceeding seven years, or to a fine, or to both.\n\nThe following cases are relevant:\n\nSee also the Crown Prosecution Service sentencing manual.\n\nIn Anglo-Saxon legal procedure, the offence of perjury could only be committed by both jurors and by compurgators. With time witnesses began to appear in court they were not so treated despite the fact that their functions were akin to that of modern witnesses. This was due to the fact that their role were not yet differentiated from those of the juror – hence false evidence or perjury by witnesses was not made a crime. Even in the fourteenth century when witnesses started appearing before the jury to testify, perjury by them was not made a punishable offence. The maxim then was that every witness’s evidence on oath was true. Perjury by witnesses began to be punished before the end of fifteenth century by the Star Chamber. The immunity enjoyed by witnesses began also to be whittled down or interfered with by the parliament in England in 1540 with subornation of perjury and, in 1562, with perjury proper. The punishment for the offence then was in the nature of monetary penalty, recoverable in a civil action and, not by penal sanction. In 1613, the Star Chamber declared perjury by a witness to be a punishable offence at common law.\n\nSee section 3 of the Maintenance and Embracery Act 1540, the 5 Eliz 1 c 9 (An Act for the Punyshement of suche persones as shall procure or comit any wyllful Perjurye) and the Perjury Act 1728.\n\nMateriality\n\nThe requirement that the statement be material can be traced back to, and has been credited to, Coke. He said:\n\nPerjury is a statutory offence in Northern Ireland. It is created by article 3(1) of the Perjury (Northern Ireland) Order 1979 (S.I. 1979/1714 (N.I. 19)). This replaces the Perjury Act (Northern Ireland) 1946 (c. 13) (N.I.).\n\nPerjury operates in American law as an inherited principle of the common law of England, which defined the act as the \"willful and corrupt giving, upon a lawful oath, or in any form allowed by law to be substituted for an oath, in a judicial proceeding or course of justice, of a false testimony material to the issue or matter of inquiry.\" William Blackstone touched on the subject in his Commentaries on the Laws of England, establishing perjury as \"a crime committed when a lawful oath is administered, in some judicial proceeding, to a person who swears willfully, absolutely, and falsely, in a matter material to the issue or point in question.\" The punishment for perjury under the common law has varied from death to banishment and has included such grotesque penalties as severing the tongue of the perjurer. The definitional structure of perjury provides an important framework for legal proceedings, as the component parts of this definition have permeated jurisdictional lines, finding a home in American legal constructs. As such, the main tenets of perjury, including mens rea, a lawful oath, occurring during a judicial proceeding, a false testimony have remained necessary pieces of perjury’s definition in the United States.\n\nPerjury’s current position in the American legal system takes the form of state and federal statutes. Most notably, the United States Code prohibits perjury, which is defined in two senses for federal purposes as someone who:\n\nThe above statute provides for a fine and/or up to five years in prison as punishment. Within federal jurisdiction, statements made in two broad categories of judicial proceedings may qualify as perjurious: 1) Federal official proceedings, and 2) Federal Court or Grand Jury proceedings. A third type of perjury entails the procurement of perjurious statements from another person. More generally, the statement must occur in the \"course of justice,\" but this definition leaves room open for interpretation. One particularly precarious aspect of this phrasing is that it entails knowledge of the accused person’s perception of the truthful nature of events and not necessarily the actual truth of those events. It is important to note the distinction here, between giving a false statement under oath and merely misstating a fact accidentally, though this distinction can be especially difficult to discern in court of law.\n\nThe development of perjury law in the United States centers on United States v. Dunnigan, a seminal case that set out the parameters of perjury within United States law. The court uses the Dunnigan-based legal standard to determine if an accused person, \"[T]estifying under oath or affirmation violates this section if she gives false testimony concerning a material matter with the willful intent to provide false testimony, rather than as a result of confusion, mistake, or faulty memory.\" However, a defendant shown to be willfully ignorant may in fact be eligible for perjury prosecution. The Dunnigan distinction manifests its importance with regard to the relation between two component parts of perjury’s definition: in willfully giving a false statement, a person must understand that she is giving a false statement to be considered a perjurer under the Dunnigan framework. Deliberation on the part of the defendant is required for a statement to constitute perjury. Jurisprudential developments in the American law of perjury have revolved around the facilitation of \"perjury prosecutions and thereby enhance the reliability of testimony before federal courts and grand juries.\" With this goal in mind, Congress has sometimes expanded the grounds on which an individual may be prosecuted for perjury, with section 1623 of the United States Code recognizing the utterance of two mutually incompatible statements as grounds for perjury indictment even if neither can unequivocally be proven false. However, the two statements must be so mutually incompatible that at least one must necessarily be false; it is irrelevant whether the false statement can be specifically identified from among the two. It thus falls on the government to show that a defendant (a) knowingly made a (b) false (c) material statement (d) under oath (e) in a legal proceeding. These proceedings can be ancillary to normal court proceedings, and thus, even such menial interactions as bail hearings can qualify as protected proceedings under this statute.\n\nWilfulness is an element of the offense. The mere existence of two mutually exclusive factual statements is not sufficient to prove perjury; the prosecutor nonetheless has the duty to plead and prove statement was willfully made. Mere contradiction will not sustain the charge; there must be strong corroborative evidence of the contradiction.\n\nOne significant legal distinction lies in the specific realm of knowledge necessarily possessed by a defendant for her statements to be properly called perjury. Though the defendant must knowingly render a false statement in a legal proceeding or under federal jurisdiction, the defendant need not know that they are speaking under such conditions for the statement to constitute perjury. All tenets of perjury qualification persist–the “knowingly” aspect of telling the false statement simply does not apply to the defendant’s knowledge about the person she intends to deceive.\n\nPerjury law’s evolution in the United States has experienced the most debate with regards to the materiality requirement. Fundamentally, statements that are literally true cannot provide the basis for a perjury charge (as they do not meet the falsehood requirement) just as answers to truly ambiguous statements cannot constitute perjury. However, such fundamental truths of perjury law become muddled when discerning the materiality of a given statement and the way in which it was material to the given case. In \"United States v. Brown\", the court defined material statements as those with \"a natural tendency to influence, or is capable of influencing, the decision of the decision-making body to be addressed,\" such as a jury or grand jury. While courts have specifically made clear certain instances which have succeeded or failed to meet the nebulous threshold for materiality, the topic remains unresolved in large part, except in certain legal areas where intent manifests itself in an abundantly clear fashion, such as with the so-called perjury trap, a specific situation in which a prosecutor calls a person to testify before a grand jury with the intent of drawing a perjurious statement from the person being questioned.\n\nDespite a tendency of American perjury law toward broad prosecutory power under perjury statutes, American perjury law has afforded potential defendants a new form of defense not found in the British Common Law. This defense requires that an individual admit to making a perjurious statement during that same proceeding and recanting the statement. Though this defensive loophole slightly narrows the types of cases which may be prosecuted for perjury, the effect of this statutory defense is to promote a truthful retelling of facts by witnesses, thus helping to ensure the reliability of American court proceedings just as broadened perjury statutes aimed to do.\n\nSubornation of perjury stands as a subset of American perjury laws and prohibits an individual from inducing another to commit perjury. Subornation of perjury entails equivalent possible punishments as perjury on the federal level. This crime requires an extra level of satisfactory proof, as prosecutors must show not only that perjury occurred, but also that the defendant positively induced said perjury. Furthermore, the inducing defendant must know that the suborned statement is a false, perjurious statement.\n\n\nNotable people who have been accused of perjury include:\n\n"}
{"id": "4017873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4017873", "title": "Preparations for Hurricane Katrina", "text": "Preparations for Hurricane Katrina\n\nThis article covers the details of the Preparations for Hurricane Katrina, a major category 5 hurricane that devastated parts of New Orleans, Florida, Louisiana, Mississippi, and Alabama, as well as the Hurricane Pam simulation and NWS forecasts that led to the U.S. government's decision to establish a Bipartisan Congressional Committee to investigate the country's preparedness for and response to Hurricane Katrina.\n\nMany people living in the South Florida area were unaware when Katrina strengthened from a tropical storm to a hurricane in one day and struck southern Florida on August 25, 2005, near the Miami-Dade – Broward county line. However, National Hurricane Center (NHC) forecasts had correctly predicted the strengthening, however, and hurricane watches and warnings were properly issued nearly 6–8 days, respectively, before hurricane conditions were felt in the area.\n\nFlorida Governor Jeb Bush declared a state of emergency on August 24 in advance of Hurricane Katrina's landfall in Florida. Shelters were opened and schools closed in several counties in the southern part of the state. A number of evacuation orders were also issued, mostly voluntary, although a mandatory evacuation was ordered for vulnerable housing in Martin County.\n\nOn August 27, after Hurricane Katrina crossed southern Florida and strengthened to a Category 3 storm, President George W. Bush declared a state of emergency in Louisiana, Alabama, and Mississippi two days before the hurricane made landfall.\n\nOn August 28, the National Weather Service in Slidell, Louisiana issued a bulletin predicting \"devastating\" damage rivaling the intensity of Hurricane Camille. Mandatory evacuations were issued for large areas of southeast Louisiana as well as coastal Mississippi and Alabama.\n\nOn Sunday, August 28, Canadian National Railway (CN) suspended all rail traffic on its lines south of McComb, Mississippi (lines owned by its subsidiary Illinois Central Railroad that extend into New Orleans), in anticipation of damage from the hurricane. To help ease the resumption of services after the storm passes, CN also issued an embargo with the Association of American Railroads against all deliveries to points south of Osyka, Mississippi. CSX Transportation also suspended service south of Montgomery, Alabama until further notice.\n\nAmtrak, America's rail passenger carrier, announced that the southbound \"City of New Orleans\" passenger trains from Chicago, Illinois, from August 29 through September 3, would terminate in Memphis, Tennessee, rather than their usual destination of New Orleans. The corresponding northbound trains would also originate in Memphis. The southbound \"Crescent\" from New York City, for the same period, terminated in Atlanta, Georgia, with the corresponding northbound trains originating in Atlanta as well. Amtrak's westbound \"Sunset Limited\" originated in San Antonio, Texas, rather than its normal origin point of Orlando, Florida. Amtrak announced that no alternate transportation options would be made available into or out of the affected area.\n\nThe Waterford nuclear power plant was also shut down on Sunday, August 28, before Katrina's arrival.\n\nBy August 26, the possibility of unprecedented cataclysm was already being considered. Some computer models were putting the city of New Orleans right in the center of their track probabilities, and the chances of a direct hit were forecast at 17% (with strike probability rising to 29% by August 28). This scenario was considered a potential catastrophe because 80% of the New Orleans metropolitan area is below sea level along Lake Pontchartrain. Since the storm surge produced by the hurricane's right-front quadrant (containing the strongest winds) was more than 20 ft (6 m) near Biloxi, emergency management officials in New Orleans feared that the storm surge could go over the tops of levees protecting the city, causing major flooding. This risk of devastation had been known for some time; previous studies by FEMA and the Army Corps of Engineers had warned that a direct hurricane strike on New Orleans could lead to massive flooding, which would lead to thousands of drowning deaths, as well as many more suffering from disease and dehydration, as the flood waters slowly receded from the city.\n\nAt a news conference 10:00 AM on August 28, shortly after Katrina was upgraded to a Category 5 storm, New Orleans mayor Ray Nagin ordered the first ever mandatory evacuation of the city, calling Katrina, \"a storm that most of us have long feared\". To speed up the evacuations, authorities used contraflow lane reversal on Interstate 10 leading west of New Orleans, as well as on Interstate 55 and 59 leading north from the city. The city government also established a \"refuge of last resort\" for citizens who could not leave the city, at the massive Louisiana Superdome, which housed approximately 26,000 people with food and water for two days as the storm came ashore. The Louisiana National Guard delivered three truckloads of water and seven truckloads of MRE's to the Superdome, enough to supply 15,000 people for three days.\n\nLouisiana's hurricane evacuation plan calls for local governments in areas along and near the coast to call for evacuations in three phases, starting with the immediate coast 50 hours before the start of tropical storm force winds. Persons in areas designated Phase II begin evacuating 40 hours before the onset of tropical storm winds and those in Phase III areas (including New Orleans) evacuate 30 hours before the start of such winds.\n\nHowever, many parishes were not able to provide sufficient transportation for citizens who did not have private means of evacuation, and many private care-taking facilities who relied on the same bus companies and ambulance services for evacuation were unable to evacuate their charges. Fuel and rental cars were in short supply and many forms of public transportation had been shut down well before the storm arrived. The end result was that hundreds of thousands of residents and tourists were unable to evacuate and remained in the city. Nonetheless, some estimates claimed that 90-92% of the 1.3 million residents of the New Orleans metropolitan region evacuated including 80% of Orleans parish. More than 80,000 people were homeless.\n\nMonths before Hurricane Katrina made landfall on New Orleans, a hurricane simulation was created to warn the city of a potential hurricane crisis and its devastating outcomes. The simulation was named Pam, in which a category 3 hurricane's strong winds and flooding caused the levee system of New Orleans to fail and leave the city underwater. Many emergency officials were stunned by the lack of response to Hurricane Pam's simulation, expressing their concerns that if a disaster like this did occur, the effects would be catastrophic.\n\nIt was indeed confirmed that Pam's disaster plan was seen by FEMA and Louisiana state officials, to no avail. Under Hurricane Pam's disaster plan, it was decided that preparations for the hurricane should have been happening for three days prior to the hurricane's arrival on land. In New Orleans, a mandatory evacuation was not ordered by the city until approximately 20 hours before Hurricane Katrina made landfall. On top of this, it was important that officials representing FEMA had critical resources ready to go before the storm hit the city, which they failed to do so. While it is true that the authorities of the city and state government were mainly in charge of moving people to safety, Hurricane Pam's disaster plan noted that there was a scarcity of resources in support shelters for the state of Louisiana.\n\nShortly thereafter the effects of Hurricane Katrina were evident, President Bush made it clear that he wanted there to be an investigation regarding the government's preparedness for and response to Hurricane Katrina.\n\nThe National Weather Center's (NWS) services are provided collaboratively with several different offices that specialize in certain areas regarding the weather. Some of these offices include the National Hurricane Center (NHC) and the Hydro-meteorological Prediction Center (HPC). The NHC is a component for the National Centers for Environmental Prediction, and the HPC is a provider of weather forecasts and analyses that support the NWS.\n\nAlong with this, the HPC supplies the NHC with precipitation statements. After what is considered a tropical storm progresses inward on land and the NHS terminates any alerts they put out, the HPC then accepts the authority of watching over the system. The two offices work hand in hand with one another to ensure the most accurate information is released to the public.\n\nThe storm that became Hurricane Katrina was recognized by both the NHC and HPC on August 22nd. After waiting a few days to monitor development, the HPC started formulating precipitation statements for Hurricane Katrina on August 24th. on August 30th, the HPC accepted responsibility for the release of warnings regarding Katrina. On August 31st, the hurricane system was consumed by a system near the Great Lakes of the east, so the HPC terminated their advisories for Katrina.\n\nThe NHC and HPC are essential to one another, especially in that the HPC routinely executes service backup for the NHC. An example of this is when the HPC conducted a respective amount of drills for service backup in the summer months leading up to Katrina. During Hurricane Katrina's landfall, the NHC's implementation and execution of policies was seen as excellent by many government emergency officials. Throughout the tracking of Hurricane Katrina, the NHC's forecasts were very consistent and provided strong evidence for the intensity and power of the storm. Not only were the forecasts made by the NHC accurate, but they were also timely, which allowed for workforce management operation members to in turn provide accurate information to their counterparts. As well as the accuracy and timeliness of the NHC's forecast, it was precisely expected that Hurricane Katrina would be a massive hurricane that caused detrimental effects to the northern Gulf coast.\n\nWhat seemed shocking to many after Hurricane Katrina had passed was the government failing to do much about the forecasts released by the NHC. It seemed clear to many what the potential effects of Katrina could amount to, yet the storm was not treated how it should have been.\n\nOn September 15, 2005, it was announced that a Bipartisan Congressional Committee had been established to investigate the United States government's preparations for and responses to Hurricane Katrina. This decision was preceded by many different positions of members of the House of Representatives, which are outlined below.\n\nHonorable David Dreier was elected to the U.S. House of Representatives in 1980. He was a Republican Representative from California, and served as the House Rules Committee's Chairman. The following information is regarding the House of Representatives' debate and more specifically, Honorable Dreier's viewpoint on whether to establish a Bipartisan Congressional Committee to investigate the U.S. government's preparations for Hurricane Katrina.\n\nHonorable Dreier agreed with President Bush when he claimed that there were many undesirable characteristics of the government's initial response to Hurricane Katrina. In his debate to the House of Representatives, Honorable Dreier expressed that the Federal Emergency Management System's (FEMA) department head had resigned after the events of Hurricane Katrina. He stated that from what happened during the disaster, there were certainly lessons to be taken away. He called for action from his fellow representatives that there must be an acceptance of the Executive Branch's powers to investigate what went wrong in the response to Hurricane Katrina. In his strong declaration to the House of Representatives, Honorable Dreier made it very clear that a Bipartisan Congressional Committee was necessary in order to follow the nation's precedents and traditions.\n\nAs well as this, many delegates viewed an independent commission to be a ridiculous idea and redundant of sorts. They believe that Americans wanted immediate solutions to the hurdles they were being faced with as a result of the lack of preparation for Hurricane Katrina.\n\nIn 1993, Honorable Bennie Thompson was elected to the United States House of Representatives. He was a Democratic Representative from Mississippi, and served as the Mayor of Bolton from the years 1973 to 1979. He also serves as the Homeland Security Committee's Ranking Minority Member. Below is information regarding Honorable Thompson's viewpoint on whether to establish a Bipartisan Congressional Committee during the debate of the U.S. House of Representatives.\n\nHonorable Thompson's opposition began with his perspective that it is not necessary for a Congressional Committee to be entrusted with the investigation. He compared Congress being permitted to investigate the government's preparedness to a fox guarding a hen house, in which he stated that the government is not safeguarding what needs to be safeguarded. He strongly believed that instead of establishing a Congressional Committee, there should be an independent assessment of where the government went wrong. As the Ranking Minority Member of the Homeland Security Committee, he submitted a document outlining the complexity of the problems regarding what happened during Hurricane Katrina and the need for an independent assessment.\n\nAs well as Honorable Bennie Thompson, many other delegates of the U.S. House of Representatives were not shy in sharing their viewpoints as to why there should not have been a Congressional Committee Established. They gave their perspectives on a variety of issues why a Congressional Committee was an inadequate idea. Many members of the Democratic party were not keen about establishing this Congressional Committee, as it would have been composed of mainly Republican delegates. The Democrats involved in voicing their opinions did not want the power to be only in the hands of the Republicans, and therefore, voted in opposition of the establishment.\n"}
{"id": "8111715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8111715", "title": "Pérák, the Spring Man of Prague", "text": "Pérák, the Spring Man of Prague\n\nPérák, the Spring Man was an urban legend originating from the Czechoslovakian city of Prague during the German occupation of Czechoslovakia in the midst of World War II. In the decades following the war, Pérák has also been portrayed as a Czech superhero.\n\nAccording to historians Callum McDonald and Jan Kaplan in their book \"Prague in the Shadow of the Swastika: a History of the German Occupation 1939-1945\" (London, 1995), \"the Springer\" was said to leap out from shadowy alleys and startle passers-by. Oral tradition suggests that some of Pérák's leaps were of an extraordinary magnitude, including the act of jumping over train carriages, similar to England's Spring-heeled Jack.\n\nA contemporary and possibly associated rumour concerned a \"Razor Blade Man\" who was said to slash at victims with razors attached to his fingers.\n\nResearcher Mike Dash quotes George Zenaty, a noted authority on the policing of Prague during the war years, that:\n\nIn 2015 a social activist claiming the identity of Pérák fronted a guerilla media campaign to commemorate the former site of the Lety concentration camp.\n\nThe 2017 book \"Mýtus o pérákovi. Městská legenda mezi folklorem a populární kulturou\" by Czech folklorist Petr Janeček offers a comprehensive survey of the Perak phenomenon, tracing a history from the figure of Spring Heeled Jack in England during the early 19th century through to Czech folklore before, during and after World War 2, and then into popular culture via a succession of speculative fiction novels, comic book treatments and other works of fiction.\n\nA 14-minute 1946 Czechoslovakian animated cartoon \"Pérák a SS\" (\"The Springer and the SS\", also released in English-speaking markets as \"Springman and the SS\", \"Jumping Jack and the SS\" or \"The Chimneysweep\") was created by the renowned Czech animator Jiří Trnka and film-maker Jiří Brdečka. It portrayed the \"Springer\" as a heroic and mischievous black-clad chimney sweep, with a mask fashioned out of a sock. He was capable of performing fantastic leaps due to having couch springs attached to his shoes. Pérák taunted German Army sentries, the Gestapo and, particularly, a Hitleresque Nazi collaborator before escaping in a surrealistic, slapstick chase across the darkened city, ultimately freeing a number of incarcerated citizens of Prague.\n\nTrnka's postwar interpretation of Pérák as a quasi-superhero, defying the curfew and the authority of the German occupying forces, formed the basis for sporadic revivals of the character in Czech science fiction and comic book stories.\n\nIn 1961, Pérák was featured as a heroic character in the story \"Pérový muž\" (\"The Spring-Man\"), which was written by Czech science fiction writer Jan Weiss and published as part of a collection of short stories entitled \"Bianka Braselli, A Two-Headed Lady\". In his 1997 biographical essay on Weiss, Vilém Kmuníček speculated that the inspiration for this story was in response to National Socialist propaganda:\n\nIn 1986, Czech science fiction writer Ondřej Neff also portrayed Pérák as a heroic figure of resistance against the Nazi occupation of Prague. In 2001, he created (under the pseudonyme \"Aston\") a satirical comic strip titled \"Pérák kontra Globeman\" (\"Pérák versus Globalman\") which conflates the figures of the Springer and the Razor Blade Man and pits him against a villain called Globalman, who bears a strong resemblance to McDonald's mascot Ronald McDonald.\n\nIn 2016, Marek Berger created an animated film \"Pérák: Stín nad Prahou\" (English name: The Shadow over Prague). The film has won 2 awards at International Student Film Festival in Opava - for best animated film and absolute best film.\n\nThe cartoonist Adolf Lachman, in cooperation with scriptwriters Monge and Morten, is producing a new series of comic strips about Pérák, portraying him as a World War II-era costumed superhero who battles the Gestapo with the aid of various weapons and mechanical spring-powered boots. In addition, the Czech magazine \"Živel\" is giving space on its pages to those Czech writers and artists who have been influenced by the stories of Jan Weiss, Jiří Brdečka, Jiří Trnka and Ondřej Neff.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16823832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16823832", "title": "Rikki and Me", "text": "Rikki and Me\n\nRikki and Me was a stage show celebrating the life of comic actor Rikki Fulton, it starred Gerard Kelly and Tony Roper as Jack Milroy and Rikki Fulton. The show was a huge success all over theatres in Scotland and is now available on DVD.\n"}
{"id": "946983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=946983", "title": "Russell Johnson", "text": "Russell Johnson\n\nRussell David Johnson (November 10, 1924 – January 16, 2014) was an American actor, best known for his role as Professor Roy Hinkley in \"Gilligan's Island\". He was also known as Marshal Gib Scott in \"Black Saddle\".\n\nJohnson was born in Ashley, Pennsylvania on November 10, 1924. His parents were Russell Kennedy Johnson (1901–1932) and Minnie Wenonah Smink-Johnson (1902–1976). Johnson was the second-oldest of six children. His siblings were brothers Kenneth (1925–2012), David (1926–1976), and Paul Wesley (1932–1933), and sisters Lorraine Johnson-Crosby (1928-2015) and Marian L. Johnson-Reeves (1923–2010). Their father died of pneumonia in December 1932; the youngest of the siblings (Paul Wesley Johnson), died not long after. Minnie Johnson later remarried to Thomas S. Lewis. As a teenager, Johnson attended Girard College, a private boarding school for fatherless boys, located in Philadelphia.\n\nAfter graduating from high school, Johnson enlisted in the United States Army Air Forces as an aviation cadet. On completing his training, he was commissioned a second lieutenant. He flew 44 combat missions in the Pacific Theater during World War II as a bombardier in B-25 twin-engined medium bombers.\n\nOn March 4, 1945, while flying as a navigator in a B-25 with the 100th Bombardment Squadron, 42nd Bombardment Group, 13th Air Force, his B-25 and two others were shot down during a low-level bombing and strafing run against Japanese military targets in the Philippine Islands. The B-25s encountered heavy anti-aircraft fire, and all three had to ditch in the sea off Zamboanga. Johnson broke both ankles in the landing, and his bomber's co-pilot was killed. Johnson received a Purple Heart for his injuries. He was also awarded the Air Medal, the Asiatic-Pacific Campaign Medal with three campaign stars, the Philippine Liberation Ribbon with one campaign star, and the World War II Victory Medal.\n\nAfter Japan's surrender, Johnson was honorably discharged as a first lieutenant on November 22, 1945. He joined the United States Air Force Reserve and used the G.I. Bill to pay for his acting studies at the Actors' Lab in Hollywood. While there, he met actress Kay Cousins (1923–1980), whom he married in 1949.\n\nJohnson became a close friend of Audie Murphy and later appeared with him in three of his films, \"Column South\" and \"Tumbleweed\" in 1953 and \"Ride Clear of Diablo\" in 1954. Johnson's Hollywood career began in 1952, with the college fraternity hazing exposé \"For Men Only\", and with \"Loan Shark\", also released in 1952 and starring George Raft. \n\nHis early roles were primarily in Westerns such as \"Rancho Notorious\" (1952, starring Marlene Dietrich), \"Seminole\" (1953), \"Law and Order\" (1953, opposite Ronald Reagan), and \"Badman's Country\" (1958), and science fiction films such as \"It Came from Outer Space\" (1953), \"This Island Earth\" (1955), \"Attack of the Crab Monsters\" (1956), and \"The Space Children\" (1958). He also appeared in a Ma and Pa Kettle vehicle, \"Ma and Pa Kettle at Waikiki\" (1955), as well as in Roger Corman's rock-'n'-roll crime drama \"Rock All Night\" (1957). In 1955, he had a role in \"Many Rivers to Cross\" along with \"Alan Hale Jr.\", later as the Skipper from \"Gilligan's Island\".\n\nDuring the 1950s, he guest-starred on Rod Cameron's syndicated crime drama \"City Detective\". He played the head of a gang of crooks in episode 17 of season 1 of \"The Adventures of Superman\" (originally broadcast in January, 1953, filmed in 1951). Johnson was also cast on the religion anthology series \"Crossroads\". He also played the Sundown Kid in an episode of the 1958 NBC's Western series \"Jefferson Drum\" and guest-starred in another NBC Western series, \"The Californians\". He appeared in an episode of Wagon Train, “The Clif Grundy Story”.\n\nHe appeared four times on the first-run syndicated military drama \"The Silent Service\", based on actual stories of the submarine section of the United States Navy. He was cast as Hugh Grafton in episode 28, \"The Gar Story\", twice played submarine officer and later author Edward L. Beach Jr., and as Tom Richards in two 1960 episodes, \"Intermission\" and \"The Desperate Challenge\", and twice with June Allyson on her CBS' anthology series \"The DuPont Show with June Allyson\". Also he guest starred with William Shatner in \"The Hungry Glass\", a 1961 episode of \"Thriller\", and with Joan Evans and Harvey Stephens in \"The Sky Diver\", the pilot episode of \"Ripcord\" of that same year. Then he was cast as John T. Metcalf in the 1962 episode \"Mile-Long Shot to Kill\" of the CBS anthology series \"GE True\", hosted by Jack Webb. In 1963 he was cast in an episode of the short-lived ABC/Warner Brothers' Western series \"The Dakotas\"; and later that same year he performed in the première of another ABC show, \"Breaking Point\", a medical drama series starring Paul Richards and Eduard Franz.\n\nFrom 1959 to 1960, Johnson had a recurring role as Marshal Gib Scott on ABC's half-hour Western series \"Black Saddle\", with Peter Breck as the gunslinger-turned-lawyer Clay Culhane, Anna-Lisa as Nora Travers, J. Pat O'Malley as Judge Caleb Marsh, and Walter Burke as Tim Potter.\n\nJohnson appeared in two episodes of \"The Twilight Zone\". His character brings a murderer from 1880 into the present via a time machine in the season 1 episode \"Execution.\" In the season 2 episode \"Back There,\" he portrays a man who attempts to prevent the assassination of Abraham Lincoln. The plot of both episodes involved time travel from the 20th to the 19th centuries. Johnson also appeared on \"The Outer Limits\" in 1964, playing a crewmember on a United States space station in the episode \"\".\n\nJohnson was best known for playing Professor Roy Hinkley (usually called the \"Professor\"), the very knowledgeable polymath who could build all sorts of inventions out of the most rudimentary materials available on the island. But, as Johnson himself pointed out, he could not fix the hole in the boat. In the first episode of the show, the radio announcer describes the Professor as a research scientist and well-known scoutmaster. \"Gilligan's Island\" aired from 1964-67, but has been shown in reruns continuously ever since. He reprised this character for three \"Gilligan's Island\" made-for-television movies and two animated series. Retrospectively, in a 2004 interview, Johnson commented about the role and shared his perspective regarding \"Gilligan's Island\" and the situation comedy's place in television history:\n\nAfter \"Gilligan's Island\", Johnson found himself somewhat typecast, making it harder to portray more non-sophisticated roles other than his signature role as the Professor. Nevertheless, he was able to resume a sufficient acting career, appearing in several other movies and television shows, especially in the latter. He appeared as a guest star in several dramatic series, including \"The Big Valley\" with Peter Breck (marking a reunion of sorts, since the two of them co-starred together in \"Black Saddle\", an earlier Four Star Productions series), \"The Invaders\", \"Death Valley Days\", \"\", \"Lassie\", \"That Girl\", \"Ironside\", \"The F.B.I\", and \"Gunsmoke.\" He was cast in the miniseries \"Vanished\", based on a novel by Fletcher Knebel (1971), the TV horror movie \"The Horror at 37,000 Feet\" (1973), uncredited in the Robert Redford spy thriller \"Three Days of the Condor\" (1975), the low-budget thriller \"Hitch Hike to Hell\" (1977), and appeared on the episode \"Coffee, Tea or Cyanide\"' on \"McMillan and Wife\" in 1977, and on the NBC soap opera \"Santa Barbara\".\n\nJohnson had a brief appearance in \"MacArthur\" (1977), in which he played United States Navy Admiral Ernest J. King, and he appeared in the 1978 made-for-television movies \"The Ghost of Flight 401\" and \"The Bastard\". Russell provided the narration for the animated-short episodes of \"The Adventures of Stevie and Zoya\" that appeared on MTV during the mid-1980s.\n\nIn an interview with \"Starlog\" magazine in the early 1980s, Johnson said that he had wanted to appear in the original \"\" during its run on NBC from 1966 to 1969, but he was never cast. An episode of CBS' \"Newhart\" featured the Beavers (a men's organization) watching a \"Gilligan's Island\" episode on television. When they are suddenly evicted from the room, one of them, portrayed by Johnson, protests, \"I want to see how it ends!\" He is assured that the castaways do not get off the island. Johnson also played the sheriff in several episodes of season 9 of \"Dallas\". His character in that series did not return in season 10, however, as season 9 turned out to be the infamous \"dream season\".\n\nJohnson entertained fans at the 1996 MST3K Conventio-Con-Expo-Fest-a-Rama 2: Electric Boogaloo on the \"Celebrity Panel\". Johnson was invited for his role in the movie-within-a-movie of \"\", \"This Island Earth\", but spent most of the time answering questions about his \"Gilligan's Island\" days. He shared an amusing anecdote: \n\nJohnson once participated in the Ig Nobel award presentation ceremony, credited as \"The Professor Emeritus of Gilligan's Island\".\n\nJohnson also guest-starred in many episodes of Laramie.\n\nJohnson was married three times. He had a daughter Kim and son David with his second wife, Kay Cousins, whom he married in 1949 and who died on January 20, 1980, in Century City, California. David Johnson died of AIDS-related complications on October 27, 1994. David's longtime partner had died of similar causes in 1986. After his son's diagnosis with AIDS, Johnson frequently helped raise money for AIDS charities.\n\nIn 1982 Johnson married Constance \"Connie\" Dane. He published his memoirs, \"Here on Gilligan's Isle\", in 1993. He died from kidney failure at his home in Bainbridge Island, Washington, on January 16, 2014, aged 89. \n\nHis remains were cremated. Johnson's memorial service was held a month later.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11726302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11726302", "title": "Sac-Anime", "text": "Sac-Anime\n\nSacAnime is a semi-annual three day anime convention held at the Sacramento Convention Center and Sheraton Grand Sacramento in Sacramento, California. The convention is the sister conventions to the Sacramento Comic, Toy and Anime Show (Sac-Con) and Bak-Anime.\n\nSacAnime typically features an animated music video contest, art contests, artists alley, card-game tournaments, console gaming, cosplay chess, costume contests, dealers room, fashion show, karaoke, maid cafe, masquerade, music performances, panels, Q&A sessions, rave, swap meet, video games, and workshops.\n\nSacAnime began as an extension of the quarterly Sacramento Comic, Toy and Anime Show (Sac-Con). The convention was originally known as the Sacramento Anime & Manga Show and became a semi-annual event in 2005. Due to the summer conventions growth, it moved to the Sacramento Convention Center in 2013. The Winter 2013 show was also moved to the Sacramento Convention Center. The Summer 2013 event shared the Sacramento Convention Center with the Sacramento Greek Festival, and with the convention badge attendees could enter festival for free. The convention expanded into additional space in the Sacramento Convention Center, along with holding some events in the Sheraton Grand Sacramento Hotel. The Winter 2014 convention continued to utilize space in the Sheraton Grand. A marriage proposal occurred during the costume contest. Sac-Anime Winter 2016 was the first year they used all exhibit halls at the Sacramento Convention Center. Prop guns were banned at the Summer 2017 convention. Sac-Anime Summer in 2019 will be moving from September to June.\n\nBak-Anime is an annual one- or two-day anime convention held at the Bakersfield Marriott at the Convention Center in Bakersfield, California by the staff of Sac-Anime. The convention began due to the requests of fans from the Bakersfield Comic Con.\n\nSacAnime Gives Back! is a one-day charity anime convention held at the McClellan Conference Center in McClellan Park, California.\n\n"}
{"id": "18017138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18017138", "title": "Scripps National Spelling Bee", "text": "Scripps National Spelling Bee\n\nThe Scripps National Spelling Bee (formerly the Scripps Howard National Spelling Bee and commonly called the National Spelling Bee) is an annual spelling bee held in the United States. The bee is run on a not-for-profit basis by The E. W. Scripps Company and is held at a hotel or convention center in Washington, D.C. during the week following Memorial Day weekend. Since 2011, it has been held at the Gaylord National Resort & Convention Center hotel in National Harbor in Oxon Hill, Maryland, just outside Washington D.C. It was previously held at the Grand Hyatt Washington in Washington D.C. from 1996 to 2010.\n\nAlthough most of its participants are from the U.S., students from countries such as The Bahamas, Canada, the People's Republic of China, India, Ghana, Japan, Jamaica, Mexico, and New Zealand have also competed in recent years. Historically, the competition has been open to, and remains open to, the winners of sponsored regional spelling bees in the U.S. (including territories such as Guam, American Samoa, the Navajo Nation, and the U.S. Virgin Islands, along with overseas military bases in Germany and South Korea). Participants from countries other than the U.S. must be regional spelling-bee winners as well.\n\nContest participants cannot be older than fourteen as of August 31 of the year before the competition; nor can they be past the eighth grade as of February 1 of that year's competition. Previous winners are also ineligible to compete.\n\nSince 1994, the cable-television channel ESPN has televised the later rounds of the bee; since 2006, earlier rounds have aired on ESPN during the day, and the Championship Finals have aired in the evening on ESPN.\n\nThe National Spelling Bee was formed in 1925 as a consolidation of numerous local spelling bees, organized by \"The Courier-Journal\" in Louisville. Frank Neuhauser won the first National Spelling Bee held that year, by successfully spelling \"gladiolus\". the spelling bee has been held every year except for 1943–1945 due to World War II. The E.W. Scripps Company acquired the rights to the program in 1941. The bee is held in late May and/or early June of each year. It is open to students who have not yet completed the eighth grade, reached their 15th birthday, nor won a previous National Spelling Bee. Its goal is educational: not only to encourage children to perfect the art of spelling, but also to help enlarge their vocabularies and widen their knowledge of the English language.\n\nAn insect bee is featured prominently on the logo of the Scripps National Spelling Bee, despite \"bee\" being unrelated to the name of the insect. \"Bee\" refers to \"a gathering\", where people join together in an activity. This sense of \"bee\" is related to the word \"been\".\n\nThe Bee is the nation's largest and longest-running educational promotion, administered on a not-for-profit basis by The E.W. Scripps Company and 291 sponsors in the United States, Europe, Canada, New Zealand, Guam, Jamaica, The Bahamas, Ghana, Puerto Rico, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and American Samoa.\n\nSponsorship is available on a limited basis to daily and weekly newspapers serving English-speaking populations around the world. Each sponsor organizes a spelling bee program in its community with the cooperation of area school officials: public, private, parochial, charter, virtual, and home schools.\n\nSchools enroll with the national office to ensure their students are eligible to participate and to receive the materials needed to conduct classroom and school bees. During enrollment, school bee coordinators receive their local sponsor's program-specific information—local dates, deadlines, and participation guidelines.\n\nThe official study booklet is available free online.\n\nThe champion of each sponsor's final spelling bee advances to the Scripps National Spelling Bee competition in Washington, D.C.\n\nTo qualify for the Scripps National Spelling Bee, a speller must win a regional competition. Regional spelling bees usually cover many counties, with some covering an entire state, U.S. territory, or foreign country. Regional competitions' rules are not required to correspond exactly to those of the national competition; most notably, the national competition has since 2004 featured time controls that are designed to ensure its conformity to the programming schedule of its nationwide television broadcaster (see \"Regulations of oral rounds\" below) and that are not intended to be implemented at lower levels of competition.\n\nMost school and regional bees (known to Scripps as local spelling bees) use the official study booklet. Through competition year 1994, the study booklet was known as \"Words of the Champions\"; during competition years 1995 through 2006, the study booklet was the category-based \"Paideia\"; and in 2007 the format and title were changed to the 701-word \"Spell It!\". The booklet is published by Merriam-Webster in association with the National Spelling Bee. It contains 1,155 words, divided primarily by language of origin, along with exercises and activities in each section. Most bees whose winners advance to regional-level competition use the \"School Pronouncer's Guide\", which contains a collection of \"Spell It!\" words as well as \"surprise words\" not listed in \"Spell It!\" but featured in Scripps' official dictionary, the unabridged \"Webster's Third New International Dictionary\" (published by Merriam-Webster).\n\nScripps provides a \"Sponsor Bee Guide\" to administrators of regional bees. The \"Sponsor Bee Guide\" consists of two volumes, each of which contains both words from \"Spell It!\" and \"surprise words\". Bees need not use the words from \"Spell It!\" to be considered official.\n\nTo participate in the national competition, a speller must be sponsored. Scripps has 281 sponsors (mostly newspapers) from the U.S., Canada, The Bahamas, New Zealand, Asia, and Europe covering a certain area and conducting their own regional spelling bees to send spellers to the national level.\n\nThe Preliminaries consists of a test (Preliminaries Test) delivered by computer on Tuesday and two rounds of oral spelling onstage on Wednesday. Spellers may earn up to 36 points during the Preliminaries: up to 30 points on the Preliminaries Test, three points for correctly spelling in Round Two and three points for correctly spelling in Round Three.\n\nThe Preliminaries Test (also called round one) has four sections, most of which administered by a computer system. Round One of the preliminaries consists of two sections; Section A consists of spelling 24 words, identical for each contestant, with each correct answer awarding 1 point (but only 12 of the 24 words are actually scored). Section B consists of 24 multiple-choice vocabulary questions using a similar scoring format. Section C and D, preliminary rounds two and three, consist of a single multiple-choice vocabulary question each. The questions are unique to each contestant, and worth 3 points towards their Preliminaries score. The highest possible score in the preliminaries is 30.\n\nRound One was a written spelling test, and has changed in format several times. In the few years prior to 2008, Round One consisted of a 25-word, multiple-choice written test. However, in 2010, changes were made in the formatting of this test. It consisted of 25 words, sometimes called \"the written round\". All spellers gathered at the Maryland Ballroom by 8:00 a.m. Jacques Bailly, the Bee's official pronouncer,(also the 1980 champion) pronounced each word, its language of origin, definition, and usage in a sentence. Spellers are given a 30-second pause in which to write down their word with the two pens given to them, and then Bailly repeated the word and all information. There was another 30-second pause, and then they moved onto the next word. Each correctly spelled word on the Round One written test was worth one point. In 2011, they stayed with that format. In 2012, they changed to the original computerized test, 50 spelling words, half scored and half not scored.\n\nBeginning in 2013, the test now includes vocabulary questions, such as being asked to choose the correct definition for a word. While met with criticism by past contestants for deviating from the concept of a spelling bee, organizers indicated that the change was made to help avert perceptions that the competition was based solely on memorization skills (as had been showcased by television broadcasts), and to help further the Bee's goal of expanding the vocabulary and language skills of children.\n\nRound Two is an oral round, in which spellers spell a word from \"Spell It!\" a.k.a. Round Two Study Guide Each speller receives a unique word. Every speller participates and has a chance to take the stage. A correct oral spelling in Round Two is worth three points. If they miss their word, the head judge will ring the bell, and the speller is eliminated from the competition. Dr. Bailly will offer the correct spelling, and the speller is escorted off stage. All spellers who misspell in Round Two will tie for the same place.\n\nThis round is broadcast live Wednesday mornings every year on ESPN3.\n\nRound Three is an oral round. Every speller who spelled correctly in Round Two spells a word from the Round Three Study Guide. Like Round Two, it is worth three points for a correct spelling. If a speller misspells, then he or she is eliminated from the competition and is escorted off stage. The judges total scores from the remaining spellers to determine scores. The maximum possible is 36. A maximum of 50 spellers qualify for Round Four.\n\nThis round is usually broadcast live on Wednesday afternoon also on ESPN3.\n\nRound Four was recently changed in 2013. It is a computerized Semifinals Test, similar to the Preliminaries Test. Once a speller finds out he or she qualifies for the Semifinals, they have approximately two hours before the test at 7:00 pm on Wednesday.\n\nThe Semifinals Test has four sections:\n\nAfter this test is taken, all of the semifinalists will participate in Round Five.\n\nThese rounds are broadcast live on ESPN2.\n\nAfter the Semi-finals test, all semi-finalists participate in Round Five. It is an oral round, similar to Rounds 2 and 3 except there is no study list. Spellers who spell correctly have three points added toward their score, go back and sit down and will spell again in Round Six. Contestants who misspell are eliminated from the competition.\n\nAll remaining semi-finalists will spell one word each in Round Six. Like Round Five, if they spell correctly, three points are added to their score, and if they misspell they are eliminated from the competition.\n\nAfter Round Six, it will be late afternoon and the judges will tally up all the remaining semi-finalists' scores. They will start from 72 and work their way down, ending up with no more than 12 and no fewer than 9 championship finalists. All spellers who did not qualify for Round Seven tie for the same place.\n\nBefore 2004, a speller could not be required to spell a given word until the judges deemed that the word had been clearly pronounced and identified by the speller; even then, judges rarely if ever instructed a contestant to begin spelling unless it was obvious that the speller was making no further progress in figuring out the word and that he/she was instead simply \"stalling for time\". Most local and regional competitions continue to follow this rule and enforcement pattern, although they are not obliged to do so.\n\nStarting in 2004, the Bee adopted new rules. A speller is given two and a half minutes from when a word is first pronounced to spell it completely. The first two minutes are Regular Time; the final thirty seconds are Finish Time. During this time limit, a speller is allowed to ask the pronouncer for the word's:\n\n\nA chime signals that regular time has expired, and the judges inform the speller that Finish Time has begun. The speller may watch a clock counting down from thirty seconds; no timing devices are allowed onstage. During Finish Time, a speller may not make further requests to the pronouncer but rather must begin spelling the word. Any speller who exceeds the time limit is automatically eliminated; judges do not acknowledge letters spelled after the end of Finish Time. A speller is allowed to stop spelling a word and restart spelling, but if (s)he changes the letters already said, the alteration counts as a misspelling and causes automatic elimination.\n\nStarting in the 2015 bee, the time limit was reduced to two minutes, indicated by a monitor with a traffic light on it. For the first 75 seconds, the traffic light is green. Once 45 seconds remain, the light turns yellow and a countdown appears on the screen. While the light is green or yellow, the speller is free to request information from the pronouncer as listed above. Once 30 seconds remain, the light turns red and the speller must begin spelling the word as in Finish Time above.\n\nIn May 2012, Scripps announced tentative plans for an international version, in which three-person teams from as many as sixty countries would compete. Although each speller would be able to confer with teammates once during each contest, all spellers would eventually compete and win prizes as individuals. If logistical and financial details can be reached, the event would be officially announced in early 2013 with the first competition to take place the following December. As of 2015, these plans are on hold.\n\nThe winner of the Scripps National Spelling Bee receives a $40,000 cash prize and an engraved loving cup trophy from Scripps, a $2,500 savings bond, a reference library from Merriam-Webster, $2,500 in reference works and a lifetime membership to Britannica Online Premium from \"Encyclopædia Britannica', and an online course and a Nook eReader from K12 Inc.\n\nAll spellers receive \"Webster's Third New International Dictionary, Unabridged\" on CD-ROM from Merriam-Webster; the Samuel Louis Sugarman Award, which is a $100 U.S. Savings Bond; a cash prize from Scripps for contestants who reach the Semi-finals; and as of 2015, a Microsoft Surface 3 with keyboard and stylus. The cash prizes are determined based on the round, and can be as much as $12,500 (for the second-place finisher). In 2014, spellers eliminated before the Semi-finals began receiving educational tools from Microsoft instead of a $100 cash prize given in years past. All other prizes remained unchanged.\n\nFor the first three decades of the bee (1925–1957), the spelling competition was held on a single day. This presented no problem in the Bee's early years, which had only nine contestants in 1925, and did not crack 50 contestants before 1950. After the 1957 bee took almost 10 hours to complete (the second-ever tie after the word list was exhausted), the bee moved to a two-day format in 1958. As the number of contestants continued to increase (first breaking 100 in 1978), an opening practice round was eliminated at the 1987 bee due to a record 185 entrants.\n\nAfter a three-day bee was held for the first time in 2001, a written test was added for the first time in 2002 to help keep the bee to two days of competition. In 2002 and 2003, a 25-word written test was given after an opening oral round.\n\nFor most of its early years, the first place prize was either $500 or $1000. It was $500 in gold pieces in the first bee in 1925, and doubled to $1000 the next year. It dropped back to $500 in the 1933 bee during the Great Depression, and only returned to $1000 in 1956. In 1987, the first place prize was raised to $1,500, and all spellers after reaching 10th place received $50. By 1993 it was $5,000.\n\nThe drama film \"Bee Season\" (2005), based on Myla Goldberg's novel of the same name, follows a young girl's journey through various levels of spelling-bee competition to the Scripps National Spelling Bee, as did the drama film \"Akeelah and the Bee\" (2006).\n\nThe 2nd Episode of Season 1 of Psych, Spellingg Bee dealt with a murder during a Spelling Bee event.\n\nContestants in the musical-comedy play \"The 25th Annual Putnam County Spelling Bee\", which ran on Broadway starting in 2005, are competing for a spot in the National Spelling Bee.\n\nThe 2013 film \"Bad Words\" revolves around a forty-year-old eighth grade dropout (Jason Bateman) attempting to win a fictional equivalent of the SNSB.\n\nThe Academy Award-nominated documentary film \"Spellbound\" (2002) follows eight competitors, including eventual national winner Nupur Lala, through the 1999 competition.\n\nThe book \"American Bee\", by James Maguire, profiles five spellers who made it to the final rounds of the competition Samir Patel, Katharine Close, Aliya Deri, Jamie Ding, and Marshall Winchester as well as giving an overview of the history of the bee.\n\nThe 5th episode of season 1 of the ESPN Classic show \"Cheap Seats\" featured the 1997 competition.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "883614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=883614", "title": "Teufelsberg", "text": "Teufelsberg\n\nTeufelsberg is a man-made hill, created in the 20 years following the Second World War by moving approximately of debris from Berlin.\n\nAfter the Communist putsch in the city parliament of Greater Berlin (for all four sectors of Berlin) in September 1948, separate parliaments and magistrates (; city government) were formed for East and West Berlin. This also ended much of the cooperation between West Berlin and the state of Brandenburg, surrounding West Berlin in the North, West and South.\n\nWhile part of the rubble from destroyed quarters in East Berlin was deposited outside the city boundary, all the debris from West Berlin had to be dumped within the western boundary. Due to the shortage of fuel in West Berlin, the rubble transport stopped during the Berlin Blockade.\n\nAlthough there are many similar man-made rubble mounds in Germany (see Schuttberg) and other war-torn cities of Europe, Teufelsberg is unique in that the never completed Nazi military-technical college (Wehrtechnische Fakultät) designed by Albert Speer is buried beneath. The Allies tried using explosives to demolish the school, but it was so sturdy that covering it with debris turned out to be easier. In June 1950 the West Berlin Magistrate decided to open a new rubble disposal on that site. The disposal was planned for .\n\nWith the end of material shortages after the blockade, an average of 600 trucks deposited of material daily. On 14 November 1957, the ten millionth cubic metre arrived. The site was closed to dumping in 1972, leaving approximately of debris, and to a lesser extent construction waste. The Senate of Berlin (West) opted to plant greenery on the hill as a beautification project.\n\nTeufelsberg was originally thought to be high, which placed it at the same elevation as (Großer Müggelberg, cf. Müggelberge), and was the highest point in West Berlin. New measurements show that Teufelsberg is actually high, making it higher than Großer Müggelberg.\n\nIn February 1955, a ski jump opened on the hill, designed by the ski jumper and architect Heini Klopfer. A larger ski jump opened March 4, 1962, offering space for 5,000 spectators. Ski jumping ceased in 1969, allowing the ski jumps to fall into decay. The jumps were removed in 1999.\n\nTeufelsberg has been a location for several recent movies and television programmes, such as \"The Gamblers\", \"Covert Affairs\" (2nd-season episode titled \"Uberlin\") and \"We Are the Night\" in which the finale takes place on Teufelsberg.\n\nAs in the whole of Grunewald Forest, wild boar frequently roam the hill.\n\nThe US National Security Agency (NSA) built one of its largest listening stations atop the hill, rumoured to be part of the global ECHELON intelligence gathering network. \"The Hill\", as it was known colloquially by the many American soldiers who worked there around the clock and who commuted there from their quarters in the American Sector, was located in the British Sector. In July 1961, Mobile Allied listening units began operations on Teufelsberg, having surveyed various other locales throughout West Berlin in a search for the best vantage point for listening to Soviet, East German, and other Warsaw Pact nations military traffic. They found that operations from atop Teufelsberg offered a marked improvement in listening ability. This discovery eventually led to a large structure being built atop the hill, which would come to be run by the NSA (National Security Agency). Construction of a permanent facility was begun in October 1963. At the request of US government, the ski lifts were removed because they allegedly disturbed the signals. The station continued to operate until the fall of East Germany and the Berlin Wall, but after that the station was closed and the equipment removed. The buildings and antenna radomes still remain in place.\n\nDuring the NSA Operations some other curious things happened: It was noticed that during certain seasons the reception of radio signals was better than during the rest of the year. The 'culprit' was found after a while: it was the Ferris wheel of the annual German-American \"Volksfest\" Festival on the \"Hüttenweg\" in Zehlendorf. From then on, the Ferris wheel was left standing for some time after the festival was over. While there were rumors that the Americans had excavated a shaft down into the ruins beneath, that was never proven, and was likely based on reports that those who maintained equipment in one of the first enclosed antenna structures accessed the upper levels of the inflated dome via an airlock that led to a \"tunnel\" that was embedded in the structure's central column. Speculation as to what might have existed within the highly restricted area frequently gave rise to rather elaborate but false rumors; one theory stated that \"the tunnel\" was an underground escape route, another that it housed a submarine base.\n\nIn the 1990s, as Berlin experienced an economic boom after German reunification, a group of investors bought the former listening station area from the City of Berlin with the intention to build hotels and apartments. There was talk of preserving the listening station as a spy museum. Berlin's building boom produced a glut of buildings, however, and the Teufelsberg project became unprofitable. The construction project was then aborted. As of the early 2000s, there has been talk of the city buying back the hill. However, this is unlikely, as the area is encumbered with a mortgage of nearly 50 million dollars. The site has been heavily covered in graffiti since the company abandoned the project. Since 1996, the site has been privately owned and is currently fenced off from the surrounding park. In the summer of 2016, landlord Marvin Schutte opened the site to visitors who are able to climb the listening station towers and admire the ever-evolving \"street art gallery\" that fills the site's abandoned buildings. The site and buildings have uneven surfaces, broken glass, and building debris. Accessing the main dome involves ascending a pitch dark stairwell in the centre of the building. As of April 2017, entry to the site is €5 payable at the main entrance gate and a sign informs visitors that it is open from 10am to \"one hour before sunset.\"\n\nFollowing the announcement of plans to raze the facility and reforest the hill, talk of preserving the facility resurfaced in 2009, spearheaded by the Field Station Berlin Veterans Group, which hopes to have the memorial named in honor of Major Arthur D. Nicholson, the last military Cold War casualty, the U.S. Military Liaison Mission tour officer who was shot and killed by a Russian sentry near Ludwigslust on March 24, 1985. After no further construction was done after 2004, in 2006 the hilltop was categorised as forest in the land use plan of Berlin, thereby eliminating the possibility of building.\n\nIn September 2013, U.S. Army Teufelsberg veterans marked the fiftieth anniversary (1963-2013) of the construction of the permanent buildings for Field Station Berlin atop Teufelsberg with a special Commemorative issue of Cinderella stamps, and with the dedication of a commemorative plaque. The designer is T.H.E. Hill, the award-winning author of two novels about Field Station Berlin.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19454238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19454238", "title": "Texel Disaster", "text": "Texel Disaster\n\nThe Texel Disaster took place off the Dutch coast on the night of 31 August 1940 and involved the sinking of two Royal Navy destroyers, and damage to a third and a light cruiser. The disaster was caused by a destroyer flotilla running into an unmarked minefield, which caused serious damage to one vessel; two more destroyers were sunk going to the aid of the first, and a light cruiser sent as an escort was slightly damaged by a mine on the return journey. In all, the disaster caused approximately 300 deaths, with a further 100 men injured or taken prisoner of war.\n\nOn the night of 31 August 1940, the British 20th Destroyer Flotilla – consisting of , , , and – sailed from Immingham to the Dutch coast northwest of Texel to lay mines. The flotilla was joined by part of the 5th Destroyer Flotilla consisting of , and . While the ships were laying mines, air reconnaissance detected a German naval force moving west from Terschelling towards Britain; fearing an invasion the 20th flotilla was ordered to intercept.\n\nWhilst heading for this German force, the flotilla ran into a newly laid, uncharted minefield and \"Express\" was badly damaged, losing most of her bow. The explosion caused heavy casualties: ninety of the 175 men on board were killed or wounded, including her captain, J.G. Bickford, who was injured by the explosion. The flotilla commander, Lieutenant-Commander Crouch, moved his ship, \"Esk\", to assist \"Express\" but \"Esk\" also hit a mine and the vessel swiftly sank, killing all on board, save one man. \"Ivanhoe\" then went to transfer the wounded from \"Express\" but also hit a mine and was badly damaged, the explosion killing a further 53 men and wounding the majority of the crew. Several life rafts, carrying shipwrecked sailors, drifted into the Dutch coast where those on board were detained by the German authorities as prisoners of war.\n\n1 September brought \"Kelvin\" and \"Jupiter\" from the 5th flotilla to help rescue the shipwrecked crews and later two light cruisers – and – arrived as an escort. \"Ivanhoe\" was scuttled by fire from \"Kelvin\" and the ships returned to port. \"Jupiter\" towed the hulk of \"Express\" until tugs could be sent out to take over. On the way, \"Galatea\" hit a further mine and was slightly damaged.\n\nThe final toll of the disaster was approximately 300 killed, with a further 100 injured or taken prisoner; this was the greatest loss of life suffered by Nore Command since the evacuation of Dunkirk. The German \"invasion force\" turned out to be a small minelaying unit transferring from Cuxhaven to Rotterdam. The casualties returning from the disaster, some badly burned, contributed to the myth that a German invasion had been repulsed by the use of burning oil floated on the sea. One theory amongst British civilians and press of the time laid the blame for the disaster with Lord Louis Mountbatten.\n\n"}
{"id": "3223450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3223450", "title": "The Normal Heart", "text": "The Normal Heart\n\nThe Normal Heart is a largely autobiographical play by Larry Kramer.\n\nIt focuses on the rise of the HIV/AIDS crisis in New York City between 1981 and 1984, as seen through the eyes of writer/activist Ned Weeks, the gay founder of a prominent HIV advocacy group. Ned prefers loud public confrontations to the calmer, more private strategies favored by his associates, friends, and closeted lover Felix Turner. Their differences of opinion lead to frequent arguments that threaten to undermine their mutual goal.\n\nAfter a successful 1985 Off-Broadway production at The Public Theater, the play was revived in Los Angeles and London and again Off-Broadway in 2004. A Broadway debut opened in April 2011.\n\n\nDuring the early 1980s, Jewish-American writer and gay activist Ned Weeks struggles to pull together an organization focused on raising awareness about the fact that an unidentified disease is killing off an oddly specific group of people: gay men largely in New York City. Dr. Emma Brookner, a physician and survivor of polio, as a consequence of which she is using a wheelchair, is the most experienced with this strange new outbreak and bemoans the lack of medical knowledge on the illness, encouraging the abstinence of gay men for their own safety, since it is unknown yet even how the disease is spread. Ned, a patient and friend of Brookner, calls upon his lawyer brother, Ben, to help fund his crisis organization; however, Ben's attitude toward his brother is to give merely passive support, ultimately exposing his apparent homophobia. For the first time in his life, meanwhile, Ned falls in love, beginning a relationship with \"New York Times\" writer Felix Turner.\n\nThe increasing death toll raises the unknown illness, now believed to be caused by a virus, to the status of an epidemic, though the press remains largely silent on the issue. A sense of urgency guides Ned who realizes that Ben is more interested in buying a two-million-dollar house than in backing Ned's activism. Ned explosively breaks off ties to his brother until Ben can fully accept Ned and his homosexuality. Ned next looks to Mayor Ed Koch's administration for aid in financing research about the epidemic that is quickly killing off hundreds of gay men, including some of Ned's personal friends.\n\nNed's organization elects as its president Bruce Niles, who is described as the \"good cop\" of gay activism, in comparison to Ned; while Bruce is cautious, polite, deferential, and closeted, Ned is vociferous, confrontational, incendiary, and supportive only of direct action. Tensions between the two are clear, though they must work together toward the promotion of their organization. Felix, meanwhile, reveals to Ned his belief that he is infected with the mysterious virus.\n\nAlthough he continues to try to strengthen interactions with the mayor, Ned ruins his chances when his relentless and fiery personality appalls a representative sent by the mayor. Dr. Brookner gradually takes the role of activist herself, noting the epidemic's appearance in other countries around the world and even among heterosexual couples. Although she desperately asks for government funding for further research, she is denied; the rejection releases in her a passionate tirade against those who allow the persistence of an epidemic that is taking the lives of the homosexual individuals already marginalized by the government. In the meantime, Ned's conflict with Bruce comes to a head, and their organization's board of directors ultimately expels Ned from the group, believing his unstable vehemence to be a threat to the group's attempts at more calm-mannered diplomacy.\n\nAs Felix's condition worsens, he visits Ben Weeks in order to make his will and with a hope of reconciling Ben with his brother. Felix soon dies and Ned blames himself for Felix's death, lamenting that he did not fight hard enough to have his voice heard. The mortality rate from HIV/AIDS is shown to continue increasing as the stage fades to black.\n\nAfter most performances of the 2011 revival of \"The Normal Heart,\" Kramer personally passed out a dramaturgical flyer detailing some of the real stories behind the play's characters. Kramer wrote that the character \"Bruce\" was based on Paul Popham, the president of the GMHC from 1981 until 1985; \"Tommy\" was based on Rodger McFarlane, who was executive director of GMHC and a founding member of ACT UP and Broadway Cares; and \"Emma\" was modeled after Dr. Linda Laubenstein, who treated some of the first New York cases of what was later known as AIDS. Like \"Ned,\" Kramer himself helped to found several AIDS-activism groups, including Gay Men's Health Crisis (GMHC) and AIDS Coalition to Unleash Power (ACT UP), and indeed experienced personal conflict with his lawyer brother, Arthur.\n\nIt has been suggested (though not by Kramer himself) that the model for 'Felix' was John Duka, a \"New York Times\" style reporter who died of AIDS-related complications in 1989.\n\nProduced by Joseph Papp and directed by Michael Lindsay-Hogg, the play opened Off-Broadway at The Public Theater on April 21, 1985, and ran for 294 performances. The original cast included Brad Davis as Ned and D. W. Moffett as Felix, with David Allen Brooks as Bruce Niles and Concetta Tomei as Dr. Emma Brookner (based on Linda Laubenstein, M.D.). Joel Grey replaced Davis later in the run.\n\nDuring the original 1985 production, the set was very simple with a small amount of furniture and the set walls consisted of white-washed plywood. All along these walls and even the theatre walls, there were facts, newspaper headlines, figures and names that were involved in the HIV/AIDS Epidemic painted in black. For example, one of the passages written on the set read, “During the first nineteen months of the epidemic, \"The New York Times\" wrote about it a total of seven times” and another passage read, “During the three months of the Tylenol scare in 1982, \"The New York Times\" wrote about it a total of 54 times”. The text that was painted onto the set was updated and revised constantly. One fact stated the latest number of AIDS cases nationally (according to the Centers for Disease Control), and if the number increased, before the next performance the set designers would cross out the old number and, below it, paint the new figure.\n\nThe play received its European premiere in 1986 at London's Royal Court Theatre where it was directed by David Hayman and produced by Bruce Hyman. In that production Ned Weeks was initially played by Martin Sheen who received an Olivier Award nomination as Best Actor. When it transferred to the Albery Theatre (now the Noël Coward Theatre) Ned Weeks was played by Tom Hulce and then John Shea. For that production Paul Jesson, who played Felix, won the Laurence Olivier Award for Best Performance in a Supporting Role.\n\nIn a student production of the play directed by Sam Mendes at Cambridge University in 1988, the role of Felix was played by Nick Clegg.\n\nThe play received its Australian premiere at the Sydney Theatre Company in 1989 directed by Wayne Harrison.\n\nIn subsequent productions of the play, Ned Weeks was portrayed by Richard Dreyfuss in Los Angeles, and Raul Esparza in a 2004 Off-Broadway revival directed by David Esbjornson at the Public.\n\nOn April 18, 1993, Barbra Streisand organized and introduced a benefit reading for Broadway Cares at the Roundabout Theatre Company (she had been slated to be in the film). It starred Kevin Bacon, John Turturro, Harry Hamlin, D.W. Moffett, Tony Roberts, David Drake, Kevin Geer, Eric Bogosian, Jonathan Hadary and Stockard Channing as Emma Brookner.\n\nKramer wrote a sequel about Ned Weeks in 1992, \"The Destiny of Me\".\n\nThe Broadway premiere of \"The Normal Heart\" began on April 19, 2011, for a limited 12-week engagement at the Golden Theatre. This production used elements employed in a staged reading, directed by Joel Grey, held in October 2010. The cast featured Joe Mantello as Ned, Ellen Barkin (making her Broadway debut) as Dr. Brookner, John Benjamin Hickey as Felix, Lee Pace as Bruce Niles, and Jim Parsons as Tommy Boatwright (both Pace and Parsons made their Broadway debuts). Joel Grey made his Broadway directing debut; George C. Wolfe was supervising director. The production supported several \"nonprofit organizations, including The Actors Fund and Friends In Deed.\"\n\nIn the 2011 Broadway revival, when the actors weren't in the scene they would stand along the walls of the set and watch from the shadows the scene being performed. Towards the end of the play when Felix dies, he leaves Ned alone on center stage and steps back to where the other actors are, along the shadowy walls of the set. This Broadway production also utilized the original idea to have the white-washed walls with the facts and figures painted in black. During the finale of this production, names of those affected by the AIDS Epidemic were gradually projected onto the walls until the set was completely covered in names marking the end of the play.\n\nA production at Washington, D.C.'s, Arena Stage was scheduled to run from June 8 to July 29, 2012.\n\nA production produced by Studio 180 Theatre at Buddies in Bad Times theatre in Toronto, Ontario, in 2011 and 2012 starred Jonathan Wilson as Ned Weeks and John Bourgeois as Ben.\n\nThe play received its Polish premiere in 1987 at Poznań's Polish Theatre where it was directed by . The Polish cast included as Ned Weeks and as Tommy Boatwright, with Andrzej Szczytko as Bruce Niles and Irena Grzonka as Dr. Emma Brookner. \n\nThe television adaptation débuted on the TVP channel on Thursday, May 4, 1989, exactly one month before first free election in the country since 1928.\n\nRyan Murphy said in an August 2011 interview with \"Deadline\" that he had optioned \"The Normal Heart\" and intended to produce the film version, starring Mark Ruffalo \"and maybe Julia Roberts\". \"The Hollywood Reporter\" confirmed the film news in January 2012, adding Alec Baldwin, Matt Bomer, and Jim Parsons to the previously announced cast. In March 2013, Taylor Kitsch joined the cast. In April 2013, the casting of actors Jonathan Groff and Joe Mantello was announced. In May 2013, it was announced that Alfred Molina would be replacing Alec Baldwin. The film adaptation débuted on the HBO premium pay cable channel on Sunday, May 25, 2014, at 9 p.m. ET.\n\nIn his review in \"The New York Times\", Frank Rich observed, \"In this fiercely polemical drama ... the playwright starts off angry, soon gets furious and then skyrockets into sheer rage. Although Mr. Kramer's theatrical talents are not always as highly developed as his conscience, there can be little doubt that \"The Normal Heart\" is the most outspoken play around or that it speaks up about a subject that justifies its author's unflagging, at times even hysterical, sense of urgency. ... Mr. Kramer has few good words to say about Mayor Koch, various prominent medical organizations, \"The New York Times\" or, for that matter, most of the leadership of an unnamed organization apparently patterned after the Gay Men's Health Crisis. Some of the author's specific accusations are questionable, and, needless to say, we often hear only one side of inflammatory debates. But there are also occasions when the stage seethes with the conflict of impassioned, literally life-and-death argument. ... The writing's pamphleteering tone is accentuated by Mr. Kramer's insistence on repetition - nearly every scene seems to end twice - and on regurgitating facts and figures in lengthy tirades. Some of the supporting players ... are too flatly written to emerge as more than thematic or narrative pawns. The characters often speak in the same bland journalistic voice - so much so that lines could be reassigned from one to another without the audience detecting the difference. If these drawbacks ... blunt the play's effectiveness, there are still many powerful vignettes sprinkled throughout.\"\n\nJack Kroll of \"Newsweek\" called it \"extraordinary\" and added, \"It is bracing and exciting to hear so much passion and intelligence. Kramer produces a cross fire of life-and-death energies that create a fierce and moving human drama.\" In the \"New York Daily News\", Liz Smith said, \"An astounding drama . . . a damning indictment of a nation in the middle of an epidemic with its head in the sand. It will make your hair stand on end even as the tears spurt from your eyes.\" Rex Reed stated, \"No one who cares about the future of the human race can afford to miss \"The Normal Heart\",\" while director Harold Prince commented, \"I haven't been this involved upset in too damn long. Kramer honors us with this stormy, articulate theatrical work.\"\n\nOn the day \"The Normal Heart\" opened, a spokesman for \"The New York Times\" addressed statements in the play about the newspaper's failure to give the disease adequate coverage. He said that as soon as \"The Times\" became aware of AIDS, it assigned a member of the science staff to cover the story, and his article appeared on July 3, 1981, making \"The Times\" \"one of the first if not the first national news media to alert the public to the scientific recognition and spread of the disease.\" He also cited a later full-length report in \"The New York Times Magazine\" about recent discoveries made by researchers. When asked about his negative portrayal in \"The Normal Heart\", former New York City Mayor Ed Koch said through a spokesman, \"I haven't seen the play. But I hope it's as good as \"As Is\", which is superb.\"\n\nIn 2000, the Royal National Theatre named \"The Normal Heart\" one of the 100 greatest plays of the 20th century. In his 2004 book, \"How to Do the History of Homosexuality\", David Halperin criticized the character of Ned Weeks for surrendering to \"gay chauvinism\" and \"homosexual essentialism\" through \"various strategies of elitism and exclusion\" when he lists renowned homosexuals he considers part of his culture.\n\nOf the 2011 Broadway revival of the play, Ben Brantley wrote in \"The New York Times\":\n\n\"What this interpretation makes clear, though, is that Mr. Kramer is truly a playwright as well as a pamphleteer (and, some might add, a self-promoter). Seen some 25 years on, \"The Normal Heart\" turns out to be about much more than the one-man stand of Ned Weeks, the writer who takes it upon himself to warn gay men about AIDS (before it was even identified as such) and alienates virtually everyone he comes across. Ned Weeks — need I say? — \"is\" Larry Kramer, with a thoroughness that few onstage alter-egos can claim.\"\n\nAfter the 2011 Broadway production, Patrick Healy from \"The New York Times\" interviewed young, gay men that had attended the show to see their reaction to the subject matter. Most of the young men that Healy interviewed talked about how the HIV/AIDS Epidemic is almost never brought up in textbooks or discussed in class by teachers. The Broadway revival became a “heart-tugging lesson”, according to Healy’s interviews, for those who weren’t alive during the events that unfolded in the gay community in the 1980s.\n\nOn June 12, 2011, Ellen Barkin and John Benjamin Hickey won the Tony Awards for Best Performance by a Featured Actress and Actor, respectively, for its Broadway debut, while the production won Best Revival of a Play.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22326819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22326819", "title": "Triplemanía IX", "text": "Triplemanía IX\n\nTriplemanía IX was the ninth Triplemanía professional wrestling show promoted by AAA. The show took place on May 26, 2001 in Mexico City, Mexico. The Main event featured a Dog collar match \"Lucha de Apuestas\" match where the last man remaining in the match would have his hair shaved off. The participants were Pirata Morgan, El Cobarde and Sangre Chicana.\n\nIn early 1992 Antonio Peña was working as a booker and storyline writer for Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre (CMLL), Mexico's largest and the world's oldest wrestling promotion, and was frustrated by CMLL's very conservative approach to \"lucha libre\". He joined forced with a number of younger, very talented wrestlers who felt like CMLL was not giving them the recognition they deserved and decided to split from CMLL to create Asistencia Asesoría y Administración, later known simply as \"AAA\" or Triple A. After making a deal with the \"Televisa\" television network AAA held their first show in April 1992. The following year Peña and AAA held their first Triplemanía event, building it into an annual event that would become AAA's Super Bowl event, similar to the WWE's WrestleMania being the biggest show of the year. The 2001 Triplemanía was the ninth year in a row AAA held a Triplemanía show and the sixteenth overall show under the Triplemanía banner.\n\nThe Triplemanía IX show featured five professional wrestling matches with different wrestlers involved in pre-existing scripted feuds, plots and storylines. Wrestlers were portrayed as either heels (referred to as \"rudos\" in Mexico, those that portray the \"bad guys\") or faces (\"técnicos\" in Mexico, the \"good guy\" characters) as they followed a series of tension-building events, which culminated in a wrestling match or series of matches.\n\n"}
{"id": "15553403", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15553403", "title": "VSR V8 Trophy", "text": "VSR V8 Trophy\n\nVSR V8 Trophy was a stock car racing series that raced at circuits around the UK, with a date in northern France at Croix en Ternois. The series became part of the European Late Model Series in 2009, racing in Belgium and the UK.\n\nThe series has gone through multiple revisions since its inaugural year in 2001.\n\nFrom 2001 to 2003 the series was known as ASCAR. In 2003 the series took on the additional name of \"Days of Thunder\" after the film of the same name. This was done as a marketing tool as starting in this year they promoted the series as a day out for all the family and had appearances from bands such as Busted and The Darkness. The series was still officially known as ASCAR.\n\nIn 2004 the ASCAR label was dropped completely and the series was labelled as the \"Days of Thunder Racing Series\".\n\n2005 saw the series renamed \"Stock Car Speed Association\" (SCSA) after a link-up with the American Speed Association and incorporated the Pickup Truck Racing Series under the same banner, which had accompanied the races since 2003.\n\nIn 2006 the SCSA and Pickup Truck Racing ran at Rockingham as part of the Thunder Sundays package organised by the BRSCC.\n\nThe SCSA name remained for 2007; as part of a new sponsorship deal competitors competed for the 'SCSA MAC Tools V8 Trophy'. On Wednesday 5 September, British motorsport publication \"Motorsport News\" reported that the SCSA would come to an end after the final race of this season.\n\nHowever, the teams, and the organisers of the Mac Tools V8 Trophy vowed to continue in 2008, whether as a MSA Sanctioned championship, or just as a \"series\".\n\n2008 heralded a new direction for the series with a focus on road courses due to a lack of dates offered by the oval tracks. The cars ran as part of the VSR Series, with the stock cars known as the VSR V8 Trophy.\n\nIn 2009 the series joined with CAMSO V8 to form the new European Late Model Series.\n\nBetween 2004 and 2007 all of the SCSA's races were held at Rockingham. They have also raced at Eurospeedway in Germany but have not been there since 2003 due to the costs involved and the projected grid numbers of cars willing to make the journey.\n\nThe 2008 race dates were:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1647127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1647127", "title": "Warsaw Autumn", "text": "Warsaw Autumn\n\nWarsaw Autumn \"(Warszawska Jesień)\" is the largest international Polish festival of contemporary music. Indeed, for many years, it was the only festival of its type in Central and Eastern Europe. It was founded in 1956 by two composers, Tadeusz Baird and Kazimierz Serocki, and officially established by the Head Board of the Polish Composers' Union. It is an annual event, normally taking place in the second half of September and lasts for 8 days.\n\nThe first festival took place in 10–20 October 1956. In 1957 and 1982 there was no festival.\n\nThe first years of the festival, reaching back to the late 1980s, was a period of particular magnificence. From the beginning of its existence the festival's program foundations were clear. The festival's leading aim was (and is) to present new music from Poland and around the world. Adrian Thomas notes that the music performed at Warsaw Autumn between 1958 and 1961 \"clearly charts the process of informing Polish audiences and composers of what was happening in the West . At the same time, the amount of Polish repertoire increased from 25% in 1958 to 30% in 1961 .\n\nThe Polish Composers' Union still plays a large role in the organisation of the festival, and the director of the festival is currently Tadeusz Wielecki.\n\nThe Warsaw Autumn featured many Polish and World premieres by both non-Polish as well as Polish composers. The following list includes some of the pieces that were performed .\n\n1956\n\n1958\n\n1959\n\n1960\n\n1961\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5347395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5347395", "title": "Webstock", "text": "Webstock\n\nWebstock is a web technology conference held in Wellington, New Zealand featuring a range of high-profile speakers covering a variety of web-related topics such as accessibility, usability, ethnographic design and development practices.\n\nWebstock began in 2005 and was created by a small non-profit group (consisting of Mike Brown, Natasha Lampard (formerly Hall), Debbie Sidelinger and Ben Lampard).\n\nSpeakers at the first four-day Webstock in 2006 included Dori Smith, Roger Hudson, Russ Weakley, Rachel McAlpine, Douglas Bowman, Heather Hesketh, Russell Brown (PublicAddress), Tony Chor (Microsoft), Darren Fittler, Kelly Goto, Ben Goodger (Firefox / Google), Rowan Simpson (Trade Me), Donna Maurer, Joel Spolsky, Kathy Sierra, Andreas Girardet (creator of Yoper) and Steve Champeon.\n\nThe second Webstock ran from 10–15 February 2008, with speakers including Shawn Henry (W3C), Simon Willison (Django), Scott Berkun, Amy Hoy, Peter Morville, Nat Torkington, Dan Cederholm, Kelly Goto, Michael Lopp, Cal Henderson, Jill Whalen, Russell Brown, Jason Santa Maria, Rachel McAlpine, Sam Morgan (Trade Me), Tom Coates (Yahoo!), Liz Danzico, Damian Conway (Perl), Luke Wroblewski and Kathy Sierra.\n\nThe third Webstock ran from 16–20 February 2009, featuring: Jane McGonigal, Nat Torkington, Derek Powazek, Meg Pickard (Guardian Unlimited, Matt Jones and Matt Biddulph of Dopplr, Fiona Romeo, David Recordon (key contributor to OpenID and then Open Platforms Tech Lead for Six Apart), Cameron Adams, Pamela Fox, Adrian Holovaty, Heather Champ (Flickr), Michael Lopp. Ze Frank, Russell Brown, Derek Featherstone, Annalee Newitz, Joshua Porter, Toby Segaran, Jasmina Tesanovic, Russ Weakley, Ben Goodger, Tom Coates (Yahoo!), Bruce Sterling, and Damian Conway.\n\nThe fourth Webstock ran from 15–19 February 2010, featuring: Jeff Atwood, Shelley Bernstein, Daniel Burka, Ben Cerveny, Sebastian Chan, Mike Davidson, Regine DeBatty, Esther Derby, Brian Fling, Thomas Fuchs, Adam Greenfield, Lachlan Hardy, Lisa Herrod, Bek Hodgson, Amy Hoy, Mark Pesce, John Resig, Eric Ries, Rives (poet), Kevin Rose, Toby Segaran, Chris Shiflett, Scott Thomas and Jeffrey Veen.\n\nThe fifth Webstock ran from 14–18 February 2011.\n\nSpeakers:\n\nSpeakers:\n\nThe sixth Webstock ran from 13–17 February 2012 and was attended by over 800 delegates.\n\nSpeakers:\n\nSpeakers:\n\nWebstock 2017 ran from 13 to 17 February 2017, with masterclasses on the first two days and the conference proper on the last two days. Scheduled speakers were Lindsay Aitchison; Genevieve Bell; Jonathon Colman; Anil Dash; Katie Dill; Janine Gianfredi; Kim Goodwin; Jeff Gothelf; Cal Henderson; Lara Hogan; Indy Johar; Sacha Judd; Tim Kadlec; Darius Kazemi; Patricia Moore; Ashley Nelson-Hornstein; Stefan Sagmeister; Jared Spool; Lisa Welchman; and Marcin Wichary.\n\nIn between the major conferences, the group runs one day and evening events regularly throughout the year, featuring both New Zealand and International speakers.\n\n"}
