{"id": "157233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=157233", "title": "2006 FIFA World Cup", "text": "2006 FIFA World Cup\n\nThe 2006 FIFA World Cup was the 18th FIFA World Cup, the quadrennial international football world championship tournament. It was held from 9 June to 9 July 2006 in Germany, which won the right to host the event in July 2000. Teams representing 198 national football associations from all six populated continents participated in the qualification process which began in September 2003. Thirty-one teams qualified from this process, along with the host nation, Germany, for the finals tournament. It was the second time that Germany staged the competition (the first was in 1974 as West Germany), and the tenth time that it was held in Europe.\n\nItaly won the tournament, claiming their fourth World Cup title. They defeated France 5–3 in a penalty shoot-out in the final, after extra time had finished in a 1–1 draw. Germany defeated Portugal 3–1 to finish in third place. Angola, Ghana, Ivory Coast, Trinidad and Tobago, and Togo made their first appearances in the finals. It was also the first appearance of Serbia and Montenegro under that name; they had previously appeared in 1998 as Yugoslavia.\n\nThe 2006 World Cup stands as one of the most watched events in television history, garnering an estimated 26.29 billion times viewed, compiled over the course of the tournament. The final attracted an estimated audience of 715.1 million people.\n\nThe vote to choose the hosts of the 2006 tournament was held in July 2000 in Zürich, Switzerland. It involved four bidding nations after Brazil had withdrawn three days earlier: Germany, South Africa, England and Morocco. Three rounds of voting were required, each round eliminating the nation with the fewest votes. The first two rounds were held on 6 July 2000, and the final round was held on 7 July 2000, which Germany won over South Africa.\n\nAccusations of bribery and corruption had marred the success of Germany's bid from the very beginning. On the very day of the vote, a hoax bribery affair was made public, leading to calls for a re-vote. On the night before the vote, German satirical magazine \"Titanic\" sent letters to FIFA representatives, offering joke gifts like cuckoo clocks and Black Forest ham in exchange for their vote for Germany. Oceania delegate Charlie Dempsey, who had initially backed England, had then been instructed to support South Africa following England's elimination. He abstained, citing \"intolerable pressure\" on the eve of the vote. Had Dempsey voted as originally instructed, the vote would have resulted with a 12–12 tie, and FIFA president Sepp Blatter, who favoured the South African bid, would have had to cast the deciding vote.\n\nMore irregularities surfaced soon after, including, in the months leading up to the decision, the sudden interest of German politicians and major businesses in the four Asian countries whose delegates were decisive for the vote. Just a week before the vote, the German government under Chancellor Gerhard Schröder lifted their arms embargo on Saudi Arabia and agreed to send grenade launchers to the country. DaimlerChrysler invested several hundred million Euro in Hyundai, while one of the sons of the company's founders was a member of FIFA's executive committee. Both Volkswagen and Bayer announced investments in Thailand and South Korea, whose respective delegates Worawi Makudi and Chung Jong-Moon were possible votes for Germany. Makudi additionally received a payment by a company of German media mogul Leo Kirch, who also paid millions for usually worthless TV rights for friendly matches of the German team and FC Bayern Munich.\n\nOn 16 October 2015, the German news magazine \"Der Spiegel\" alleged that a slush fund with money from then-Adidas CEO Robert Louis-Dreyfus was used to influence the vote of four Asian members of the FIFA executive committee. The sum of 6.7 million Euro was later demanded back by Dreyfus. In order to retrieve the money, the Organizing Committee paid an equivalent sum to the FIFA, allegedly as a German share for the cost of a closing ceremony, which never materialized. Wolfgang Niersbach, president of the German Football Association (DFB), denied the allegations on 17 October 2015, saying that \"the World Cup was not bought\" and that he could \"absolutely and categorically rule out the existence of a slush fund\". The DFB announced they would consider seeking legal action against Der Spiegel. During a press conference on 22 October 2015, Nierbach repeated his stance, emphasizing that the 6,7 million were used in 2002 to secure a subsidy by FIFA. According to Niersbach, the payment had been agreed upon during a meeting between Franz Beckenbauer and FIFA president Blatter, with the money being provided by Dreyfus. On the same day, FIFA contradicted Niersbach's statement, saying: \"By our current state of knowledge, no such payment of 10 million Franks was registered by FIFA in 2002.\" The following day, former DFB president Theo Zwanziger publicly accused Niersbach of lying, saying: \"It is evident that there was a slush fund for the German World Cup application\". According to Zwanziger, the 6.7 million Euros went to Mohamed Bin Hammam, who at the time was supporting Blatter's campaign for president against Issa Hayatou.\n\nOn 22 March 2016 it was announced that the FIFA Ethics Committee was opening proceedings into the bid.\n\n198 teams attempted to qualify for the 2006 World Cup. Germany, the host nation, was granted automatic qualification, with the remaining 31 finals places divided among the continental confederations. Thirteen places were contested by UEFA teams (Europe), five by CAF teams (Africa), four by CONMEBOL teams (South America), four by AFC teams (Asia), and three by CONCACAF teams (North and Central America and Caribbean). The remaining two places were decided by playoffs between AFC and CONCACAF and between CONMEBOL and OFC (Oceania).\n\nEight nations qualified for the finals for the first time: Angola, Czech Republic, Ghana, Ivory Coast, Togo, Trinidad and Tobago, Ukraine, and Serbia and Montenegro. Czech Republic and Ukraine were making their first appearance as independent nations, but had previously been represented as part of Czechoslovakia and the Soviet Union respectively; Serbia and Montenegro had competed as Yugoslavia in 1998, as well as making up part of Yugoslav teams from 1930 to 1990. As of 2018, this was the last time Togo, Angola, Czech Republic, Ukraine and Trinidad and Tobago qualified for a FIFA World Cup finals, and the last time Uruguay and Nigeria failed to qualify.\n\nAustralia qualified for the first time since 1974. Among the teams who failed to qualify were 2002 third-placed team Turkey, quarter-finalists Senegal, Euro 2004 winners Greece and 2006 Africa Cup of Nations winners Egypt. Additionally, Belgium failed to qualify for the first time since 1978 and Cameroon failed to qualify for the first time since 1986. The other notable qualifying streaks broken were for Nigeria, who had made the previous three tournaments, and Denmark and South Africa, who had both qualified for the previous two. France had their first successful qualifying campaign since 1986, as they did not qualify for the 1990 and 1994 World Cups, in 1998 they were automatically qualified as hosts and in 2002 as defending champions.\n\nFor the first time since the 1982 World Cup, all six confederations were represented at the finals tournament.\n\nThe State Union of Serbia and Montenegro dissolved prior to the start of the World Cup, on 3 June 2006, with Serbia and Montenegro becoming independent countries; their team competed at the World Cup unaffected. Their involvement in the competition became the first time since the Commonwealth of Independent States appeared at UEFA Euro 1992, a team formed to take the Soviet Union's place following dissolution, that multiple sovereign states had been represented in the finals of a major footballing tournament by a single team and the only occurrence in the World Cup finals to date. The highest ranked team not to qualify was Denmark (ranked 11th), while the lowest ranked team that did qualify was Togo (ranked 61st).\n\nThe following 32 teams, shown with final pre-tournament rankings, qualified for the final tournament:\n\n\n\nIn 2006, Germany had a plethora of football stadia that satisfied FIFA's minimum capacity of 40,000 seats for World Cup matches. The still-standing Olympiastadion in Munich (69,250), the venue for the 1974 final match was not used for the tournament, even though FIFA's regulations allow one city to use two stadia. Düsseldorf's LTU Arena (51,500), Bremen's Weserstadion (43,000) and Mönchengladbach's Borussia-Park (46,249) were also not used.\n\nTwelve stadia were selected to host the World Cup matches. During the tournament, many of them were known by different names, as FIFA prohibits sponsorship of stadia unless the stadium sponsors are also official FIFA sponsors. For example, the Allianz Arena in Munich was known during the competition as \"FIFA World Cup Stadium, Munich\" (), and even the letters of the company Allianz were removed or covered. Some of the stadia also had a lower capacity for the World Cup, as FIFA regulations ban standing room; nonetheless, this was accommodated as several stadia had a UEFA five-star ranking. The stadia in Berlin, Munich, Dortmund and Stuttgart hosted six matches each, while the other eight stadia hosted five matches each.\n\n\nBase camps were used by the 32 national squads to stay and train before and during the World Cup tournament. FIFA announced the base camps for each participating team.\n\nSquads for the 2006 World Cup consisted of 23 players, as in the previous tournament in 2002. Each participating national association had to confirm its 23-player squad by 15 May 2006.\n\nThe eight seeded teams for the 2006 tournament were announced on 6 December 2005. The seeds comprised Pot A in the draw. Pot B contained the unseeded qualifiers from South America, Africa and Oceania; Pot C contained eight of the nine remaining European teams, excluding Serbia and Montenegro. Pot D contained unseeded teams from the CONCACAF region and Asia. A special pot contained Serbia and Montenegro: this was done to ensure that no group contained three European teams. In the special pot, Serbia and Montenegro was drawn first, then their group was drawn from the three seeded non-European nations, Argentina, Brazil, and Mexico.\n\nIt had been predetermined that, as the host, Germany would be placed in Group A, thus being assured of the venues of their group matches in advance of the draw. FIFA had also announced in advance that Brazil (the defending champion) would be allocated to Group F.\n\nOn 9 December 2005 the draw was held, and the group assignments and order of matches were determined. After the draw was completed, commentators remarked that Group C appeared to be the group of death, while others suggested Group E. Argentina and the Netherlands both qualified with a game to spare with wins over Ivory Coast and Serbia and Montenegro respectively.\n\nThe first round, or group stage, saw the thirty-two teams divided into eight groups of four teams. Each group was a round-robin of three games, where each team played one match against each of the other teams in the same group. Teams were awarded three points for a win, one point for a draw and none for a defeat. The teams coming first and second in each group qualified for the Round of 16.\n\nIf teams were level on points, they were ranked on the following criteria in order:\nIn the original version of the rules for the final tournament, the ranking criteria were in a different order, with head-to-head results taking precedence over total goal difference. The rules were changed to the above in advance of the tournament, but older versions were still available on the FIFA and UEFA websites, causing some confusion among those trying to identify the correct criteria.\nIn any event, the final tournament saw only two pairs of teams level on points: Argentina and the Netherlands at 7 points in Group C; Tunisia and Saudi Arabia at 1 point in Group H. Both of these ties were resolved on total goal difference. Also, in both cases the teams had tied their match, so the order of ranking criteria made no difference.\n\nThe finals tournament of the 2006 World Cup began on 9 June. The 32 teams were divided into eight groups of four teams each, within which the teams competed in a round-robin tournament to determine which two of those four teams would advance to the sixteen-team knock-out stage, which started on 24 June. In total, 64 games were played.\n\nAlthough Germany failed to win the Cup, the tournament was considered a great success for Germany in general. Germany also experienced a sudden increase in patriotic spirit with flag waving, traditionally frowned upon by German society since World War II, whenever the German team played. For the closing ceremonies, Matthias Keller composed a work performed simultaneously by the Munich Philharmonic Orchestra, the Bavarian State Orchestra and the Bavarian Radio Orchestra with conductors Christian Thielemann, Zubin Mehta, and Mariss Jansons, and soloists Diana Damrau, Plácido Domingo and Lang Lang.\n\nDespite early success by Australia, Ecuador and Ghana, the tournament marked a return to dominance of the traditional football powers. Four years after a 2002 tournament in which teams from North America (United States), Africa (Senegal), and Asia (South Korea) made it deep into the knockout stages and Turkey finished third, all eight seeded teams progressed to the knockout stages, and none of the quarter-finalists were from outside Europe or South America. Six former champions took part in the quarter-final round, with Ukraine and Euro 2004 runners-up Portugal as the only relative outsiders. Argentina and Brazil were eliminated in the quarter-finals, leaving an all-European final four for only the fourth time (after the 1934, 1966 and 1982 tournaments).\n\nDespite the early goals that flooded the group stages, the knock-out phase had a much lower goals per match ratio. A prime example of the dearth of goals was Portugal, which only scored in the 23rd minute of the Round of 16, and did not score again until the 88th minute of the third place play-off. No player managed to score a hat-trick in this tournament. Italy, Germany, Argentina, Brazil and France were the only teams to score more than one goal in a knockout match. Germany was one of the exceptions, tending to play an attacking style of football throughout the knock-out stage, which was reflected by the fact that they scored the most goals (14), with players from all three outfield positions (defence, midfield and forward) making the scoresheet.\n\nGermany's Miroslav Klose scored five goals to claim the Golden Boot, the lowest total to win the prize since 1962. No other player scored more than three goals. No player from the winning Italian squad scored more than two goals, though ten players had scored for the team, tying France's record in 1982 for the most goalscorers from any one team.\n\nFor the first time ever in the FIFA World Cup, the first and last goals of the tournament were scored by defenders. Philipp Lahm, the German left wingback, scored the opener against Costa Rica after only 5 minutes of the opening match. In the final, Marco Materazzi, the Italian centre back, out-jumped Patrick Vieira and headed in the last goal of the 2006 FIFA World Cup.\n\nThe tournament had a record number of yellow and red cards, breaking the previous record set by the 1998 World Cup. Players received a record-breaking 345 yellow cards and 28 red cards, with Russian referee Valentin Ivanov handing out 16 yellow and 4 red cards in the round of 16 match between Portugal and the Netherlands, in a match known as the Battle of Nuremberg. Portugal had two players suspended for each of the quarter-final and semi-final matches, respectively. FIFA President Sepp Blatter hinted that he may allow some rule changes for future tournaments so that earlier accumulated bookings will not force players to miss the final, should their teams make it that far. The tournament also saw English referee Graham Poll mistakenly hand out three yellow cards to Croatia's Josip Šimunić in their match against Australia.\n\nThe high number of yellow and red cards shown also prompted discussion about the referees. FIFA Officials and President Sepp Blatter received criticism for allegedly making rules too rigid and taking discretion away from referees.\n\n\"All times are Central European Summer Time ().\"\n\nIn the following tables:\n\nIn the opening match of the tournament, Germany and Costa Rica played a game which ended 4–2 for the host in the highest scoring opening match in the tournament's history. Germany went on to win the Group A after edging Poland and breezing past Ecuador 3–0. Despite the defeat, Ecuador had already joined the host in the Round of 16 having beaten Poland and Costa Rica 2–0 and 3–0, respectively.\n\nIn Group B, England and Sweden pushed Paraguay into third place after narrow victories over the South Americans. Trinidad and Tobago earned some international respect after a draw with Sweden in their opening game and managing to hold England scoreless for 83 minutes, until goals from Peter Crouch and Steven Gerrard sealed a 2–0 win for the Three Lions. Sweden qualified for the knockout rounds after drawing 2–2 with England to maintain their 38-year unbeaten record against them.\n\nBoth Argentina and Netherlands qualified from Group C with a game remaining, Argentina topping the group on goal difference having hammered Serbia and Montenegro 6–0 and beating Ivory Coast 2–1. The Dutch picked up 1–0 and 2–1 victories over Serbia and Montenegro and Ivory Coast, respectively. Ivory Coast defeated Serbia and Montenegro 3–2 in their final game, in Serbia and Montenegro's last ever international as the country had dissolved 18 days earlier.\n\nPortugal coasted through in Group D, picking up the maximum number of points, with Mexico qualifying in second. Iran missed chances against Mexico in their opening 1–3 defeat and were eliminated in their match against Portugal. They fought hard against the Portuguese, but went down 2–0. Their last game against Angola ended in 1–1 draw. The Africans had a respectable first World Cup tournament after earning draws with Mexico (0–0) and Iran.\n\nIn Group E, Italy went through to the Round of 16 conceding just one goal (an own goal) in the group phase against the United States. The US bowed out of the tournament after disappointing results against the Czech Republic and Ghana, 0–3 and 1–2, respectively, despite a 1–1 draw (finishing with 9 vs 10 men) against Italy. Tournament debutant Ghana joined Italy in the round of 16, following victories over the Czech Republic and the United States. Daniele De Rossi was suspended for 4 games following his sending-off against the United States.\n\nGroup F included the reigning World Champions Brazil, Croatia, Japan, and Australia. Playing in their first World Cup for 32 years, Australia came from behind to defeat Japan 3–1, and, despite losing 0–2 to Brazil, a 2–2 draw with Croatia was enough to give the Australians a place in the Round of 16 in a game where two players were sent-off for second bookings and one, erroneously, for a third booking by English referee Graham Poll. The Brazilians won all three games to qualify first in the group. Their 1–0 win against Croatia was through a goal late in the first-half by Kaká. Croatia and Japan went out of the tournament without a single win.\n\nFrance only managed a scoreless draw against Switzerland and a 1–1 draw against South Korea. With captain Zinedine Zidane suspended, their 2–0 win against Togo was enough for them to advance to the knockout round. They were joined by the group winners, Switzerland, who defeated South Korea 2–0, and did not concede a goal in the tournament. South Korea won their first World Cup finals match outside their own country in defeating Togo, but four points were not enough to see them through to the round of 16 (the only team for which this was the case), while Togo exited without a point.\n\nSpain dominated Group H, picking up the maximum number of points, scoring 8 goals, and conceding only 1. Ukraine, despite being beaten 4–0 by Spain in their first World Cup game, took advantage of the weaker opponents to beat Saudi Arabia 4–0 and scrape past Tunisia 1–0 thanks to a 70th-minute penalty by Andriy Shevchenko, to reach the Round of 16. Saudi Arabia and Tunisia went out of the tournament having 1 point each, thanks to a 2–2 draw against each other.\n\nThe knockout stage involved the sixteen teams that qualified from the group stage of the tournament. There were four rounds of matches, with each round eliminating half of the teams entering that round. The successive rounds were: round of 16, quarter-finals, semi-finals, and final. There was also a play-off to decide third/fourth place. For each game in the knockout stage, a draw was followed by thirty minutes of extra time (two 15-minute halves); if scores were still level there would be a penalty shoot-out (at least five penalties each, and more if necessary) to determine who progressed to the next round. Scores after extra time are indicated by (aet), and penalty shoot-outs are indicated by (pen.).\n\nIn the second round, conceding two early goals in the first twelve minutes to Germany effectively ended the Swedes' hopes of progressing to the quarter-finals. Argentina struggled to get past Mexico until a Maxi Rodríguez goal in extra time put the \"Albiceleste\" in the quarter-finals. Australia's journey ended when Italians were awarded a controversial penalty, scored by Francesco Totti, deep into the remaining seconds of the match. The Italians had spent much of the game with only ten men on the field, following an equally controversial red card shown to centre back Marco Materazzi. In a 0–0 match, Switzerland failed to convert any of their three penalties in the penalty shoot-out against Ukraine to see them exit the competition with an unwanted new record in becoming the first team in a World Cup to fail to convert any penalties in a shootout. Their elimination also meant that they became the first nation to be eliminated from the World Cup without conceding any goals (and indeed the only nation ever to participate in a World Cup finals tournament without conceding a goal).\n\nEngland struggled against Ecuador but won 1–0 thanks to a David Beckham free kick. Brazil won 3–0 against Ghana, in a game which included Ronaldo's record 15th World Cup goal. \"Der Spiegel\" reported that the match may have been influenced by an Asian betting syndicate. Portugal defeated the Netherlands 1–0. The only goal came courtesy of a Maniche strike in an acrimonious match, which marked a new World Cup record with 16 yellow cards (Portugal: 9, the Netherlands: 7) and 4 players being sent off for a second bookable offence. France came from behind to defeat Spain 3–1 thanks to goals from Franck Ribéry, Patrick Vieira, and Zinedine Zidane.\n\nGermany and Argentina ended 1–1 after extra time; the hosts edged out the Argentinians 4–2 on penalties to go through to the semifinals (this was the first time Argentina had lost a World Cup penalty shootout: up until this match, both Argentina and Germany had participated in three penalty shootouts, winning all of them). In Gelsenkirchen, when England faced Portugal, Wayne Rooney was sent off, and Portugal won the penalty shoot-out 3–1 after a 0–0 draw to reach their first World Cup semi-final since the days of Eusébio 40 years earlier, and ensure manager Luiz Felipe Scolari's third consecutive tournament quarter-final win over Sven-Göran Eriksson's England.\n\nItaly defeated quarter-final debutants Ukraine 3–0. France eliminated Brazil 1–0 to advance into the semi-finals. Brazil only managed one shot on goal, while Zinedine Zidane's dribbling earned him Man of the Match and his free-kick to Thierry Henry resulted in the winning goal.\n\nWith Argentina and Brazil eliminated in the quarter-finals, an all-European semi-final line up was completed for only the fourth time (after the 1934, 1966 and 1982 tournaments).\n\nThe semi-final between Germany and Italy produced an extra time period that went scoreless until the 118th minute, when Italy scored twice through Fabio Grosso and Alessandro Del Piero, putting an end to Germany's undefeated record in Dortmund. \n\nIn the second semi-final, Portugal lost to France 1–0 in Munich. In a repeat of the Euro 1984 and Euro 2000 semi-finals, Portugal were defeated by France, with the decisive goal being a penalty scored by France captain Zinedine Zidane.\nThe hosts got three goals in 20 minutes in the second half with the help of 21-year-old left midfielder Bastian Schweinsteiger. His first goal beat the Portuguese goalkeeper Ricardo with pace over his head. Only 4 minutes later, Schweinsteiger's free kick 30 metres from the left of the penalty box, driven low across goal, was connected with Petit's knee to become an own goal for Portugal. The German did not stop, and netted his second goal, which swerved away to the keeper's left, in the 78th minute.\n\nPortugal were strong in possession but lacked punch in attack; unable to convert 57% possession into goals. Pauleta had two clear chances from 15 metres, but both times hit tame shots that did not trouble keeper Oliver Kahn, who was playing in his last match for the German national team. Portugal got a consolation goal with the help of substitute Luís Figo (also playing the final international game of his career), who almost immediately provided the precise distribution needed to unlock the German defence. A cross from the right wing on 88 minutes found fellow substitute Nuno Gomes at the far post, who dived in for the goal. The game ended 3–1, a result which gave the tournament hosts the bronze medals and left Portugal in fourth place.\n\nThe final started with each side scoring within the first 20 minutes. Zinedine Zidane opened the scoring by converting a controversial seventh-minute penalty kick, which glanced off the underside of the crossbar and bounced beyond the goal line before it spun back up, hit the crossbar again and rebounded out of the goal. Marco Materazzi then levelled the scores in the 19th minute following an Andrea Pirlo corner. Both teams had chances to score the winning goal in normal time: Luca Toni hit the crossbar in the 35th minute for Italy (he later had a header disallowed for offside), while France were not awarded a possible second penalty in the 53rd minute when Florent Malouda went down in the box after a tackle from Gianluca Zambrotta.\n\nAt the end of the regulation 90 minutes, the score was still level at 1–1, and the match was forced into extra time. Italian goalkeeper Gianluigi Buffon made a potentially game-saving save in extra time when he tipped a Zidane header over the crossbar. Further controversy ensued near the end of extra time, when Zidane head-butted Materazzi in the chest in an off-the-ball incident and was sent off. Extra time produced no further goals and a penalty shootout followed, which Italy won 5–3. France's David Trezeguet, the man who scored the golden goal against Italy in Euro 2000, was the only player not to score his penalty; his spot kick hit the crossbar, landed on the goal line and went out. It was the first all-European final since Italy's triumph over West Germany in the 1982 World Cup, and the second final, after 1994, to be decided on penalties. It was also Italy's first world title in 24 years, and their fourth overall, making them the second most successful World Cup team ever. The victory also helped Italy top the FIFA World Rankings in February 2007 for the first time since November 1993.\n\nMiroslav Klose received the Golden Boot for scoring five goals in the World Cup. In total, 147 goals were scored by 110 players, with four of them credited as own goals.\nFIFA's Technical Study Group (TSG) also granted a Man of the Match award to one player in each match. Italy's Andrea Pirlo won the most Man of the Match awards, with three in total. Miroslav Klose, Agustin Delgado, Arjen Robben, Zé Roberto, Alexander Frei, Michael Ballack, and Patrick Vieira each received two awards.\n\nThe All-star team is a squad consisting of the 23 most impressive players at the 2006 World Cup, as selected by FIFA's Technical Study Group. The team was chosen from a shortlist of over 50 players, and was selected based on performances from the second round onwards.\n\nA total of CHF332 million was awarded to the 32 teams participating in the tournament. Each team who entered the competition received CHF2 million, with the biggest prize being CHF24.5 million, awarded to the winner of the tournament. Below is a complete list of the prize money allocated:\n\n\nAll 32 teams are ranked based on criteria which have been used by FIFA. A penalty shoot-out counts as a draw for both teams.\n\nThe sponsors of the 2006 World Cup consisted of 15 FIFA Partners.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52322926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52322926", "title": "2016 Samarinda church bombing", "text": "2016 Samarinda church bombing\n\nThe 2016 Samarinda Church bombing was a terrorist attack that occurred on 13 November 2016 when Juhanda as the perpetrator detonated a Molotov bomb in front of Oikumene Church in Samarinda Seberang, Samarinda, East Kalimantan, Indonesia, where children were playing. At least 1 toddler was killed in the incident and 3 other toddlers were injured. In September 2017, Juhanda and four others were convicted of the attack, with Juhanda sentenced to life imprisonment, while the others received sentences ranging from six to seven years.\n\nThe bombing was the second attack on church in Indonesia in 2016, with the first attack occurred in Medan on August when an ISIS sympathiser attacked a priest during a mass. It was also the second terror attack to occur in less than a month, after another ISIS sympathiser was shot dead after wounding 3 police officers with a machete in Tangerang.\n\nThe explosion occurred on 10:10 WITA (Central Indonesian Time), on Oikumene Church located on Dr. Cipto Mangunkusumo Road in Sengkotek, Loa Janan Ilir District, Samarinda. Oikumene Church is the most popular church in Sengkotek. At the time, the prayer service had just finished and crowds were getting out from the church. Prosecutors said Juhanda traveled to the church by motorbike, carrying a bag full of black explosive powder and a fuse, intending to cause mass casualties. But instead it exploded when he fell from the bike in front of the church, where children were playing. 4 toddlers were injured in the explosion. Juhanda immediately ran away, but later was caught by locals and people from the church after he fell into Mahakam River.\nFirefighters, Indonesian National Police and its bomb disposal unit were immediately dispatched after the bombing. The injured, all of them toddlers with age ranging from 2 - 4 year old, were immediately taken by emergency services to Samarinda's main hospital, I.A Moeis Hospital. People from the church were evacuated from the area after the explosion. 2 toddlers were critically injured in the incident. On 14 November, the next day of the bombing, 2 year old Olivia Intan Marbun Banjarnahor, succumbed to her wounds and became the only fatality in the attack.\n\nThe perpetrator was identified by the Indonesian National Police as Juhanda, who had only been released from jail a few months before the Samarinda attack, convicted of attempted terror attack in Christ Cathedral in Jakarta, and a series of \"book bombings\" where explosives were hidden in books and sent to activists, both occurring in 2011. At the time, he joined a terrorist group identified by the police as Pepy Vernando. Before he lived in Samarinda, he settled in Bogor. He moved to Samarinda in 2015 and worked in local mosque. Juhanda was noticed by people shortly before the attack using a \"Jihad, Way of life\" T-shirt outside the church. He was sentenced to 3 years and 6 months in prison by the Jakarta's Civil Court on 29 February 2012. In July 2014, Juhanda was released due to Eid Al-Fitr remission and immediately joined another terrorist group in East Kalimantan, named as the JAD, which has a link with the Anshori Group, another terrorist group that could bring weapons from the Philippines.\n\nOn 25 September 2017, Juhanda was sentenced to life imprisonment. Juhanda was arrested and convicted along with four others, all five accused of belonging to the JAD group. The others received sentences ranging from six to seven years.\n\nImmediately after the incident, several high Muslim organisations in Indonesia, such as Nahdlatul Ulama and Indonesian Ulema Council (MUI) condemned the bombing, with MUI calling Intan's death as \"a tragedy of humanity\". President Joko Widodo immediately ordered the Indonesian National Police for a fully thorough investigation into the incident. The Chief of the Indonesian National Police General Tito Karnavian immediately stated to all Indonesians to \"not panic\" after the attack and stay calm. The Minister of Internal Affairs, Tjahjo Kumolo, immediately called the bombing as a terror attack. Jakarta's Religions Tolerance Forum condemned the bombing, calling it as \"inhumane\".\n\nSecurity measures were immediately taken after the bombing. Indonesian National Police ordered security measures to be taken in Oikumene Church after the bombing. Similar measures were taken in churches in Medan and Yogyakarta. The Vice Governor of East Java stated that the East Java Government, including the police, Indonesian National Soldier and Ulema to stay alert after the incident, and taken a \"precaution steps\" in order to detect terrorism in the region.\n\nShortly after the news of Intan's death broke, hashtag #RIPIntan went viral on social media, with many Indonesians shared their disbelief and condemned the attack, especially knowing that the victim was a toddler. News articles and media in Indonesia immediately stated their sorrows and regrets for \"not guarding Intan\". Thousands of condolences were sent to Intan's relatives and next of kin. Those who sent condolences include President Joko Widodo, Ridwan Kamil, and many other political figures in Indonesia. On 14 November, a candlelight vigil, attended by hundreds of people, was held in Hotel Indonesia Roundabout (Bundaran HI) in Jakarta. Similar vigils were held throughout Indonesia, including in Samarinda and Pontianak. In Manado, the vigil was attended by hundreds of people from many religious beliefs. In Ambon, a peace rally was held immediately after the blast. Shortly after the incident, Muslim volunteers in Samarinda joined churchgoers to clean their church. Tolerance were shown between Muslims and non-Muslims in Purwakarta, Banyuwangi and Papua. A painting dedicated for Intan, depicting Intan as an angel with wings behind her back, immediately went viral after the incident.\n"}
{"id": "1260575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1260575", "title": "46,XX testicular disorders of sex development", "text": "46,XX testicular disorders of sex development\n\n46,XX testicular disorders of sex development (46,XX DSD) describes a condition in which individuals with two X chromosomes in each cell, the pattern typically found in females, have a male phenotype appearance. 46,XX testicular disorders of sex development may also be named 46,XX sex reversal, nonsyndromic 46,XX testicular DSD, XX male syndrome, and XX sex reversal.\n\nPeople with 46,XX testicular DSD have male external genitalia. They generally have small testes and may also have abnormalities such as undescended testes (cryptorchidism) or the urethra opening on the underside of the penis (hypospadias). A small number of affected people have external genitalia that do not look clearly male or clearly female (ambiguous genitalia). Affected children are typically raised as males and are likely to have a male gender identity.\n\nIn about 80 percent of individuals with 46,XX testicular disorder of sex development, the condition results from an abnormal exchange of genetic material between chromosomes (translocation). This exchange occurs as a random event during the formation of sperm cells in the affected person's father. The translocation causes the SRY gene to be misplaced, almost always onto an X chromosome. If a fetus is conceived from a sperm cell with an X chromosome bearing the SRY gene, it will develop as a male despite not having a Y chromosome. This form of the condition is called SRY-positive 46,XX testicular disorder of sex development.\n\nAbout 20 percent of those with 46 XX testicular disorder of sex development do not have the SRY gene. This form of the condition is called SRY-negative 46,XX testicular disorder of sex development. The cause of the disorder in these individuals is often unknown, although changes affecting other genes have been identified. Individuals with SRY-negative 46,XX testicular disorder of sex development are more likely to have ambiguous genitalia than are people with the SRY-positive form.\n\nAt puberty, most affected individuals require treatment with the male sex hormone testosterone to induce development of male secondary sex characteristics such as facial hair and deepening of the voice (masculinization). Hormone treatment can also help prevent breast enlargement (gynecomastia). Adults with this disorder are usually shorter than average for males and are unable to have children (infertile).\n\nApproximately 1 in 20,000 individuals with a male appearance have 46,XX testicular disorder.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3870667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3870667", "title": "Advani", "text": "Advani\n\nAdvani is a surname found among Sindhi Hindus. People with this surname include:\n\n"}
{"id": "752909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=752909", "title": "Akha people", "text": "Akha people\n\nThe Akha are an indigenous hill tribe who live in small villages at higher elevations in the mountains of Thailand, Myanmar, Laos, and Yunnan Province in China. They made their way from China into Southeast Asia during the early 20th century. Civil war in Burma and Laos resulted in an increased flow of Akha immigrants and there are now some 80,000 living in Thailand's northern provinces of Chiang Rai and Chiang Mai, where they constitute one of the largest of the hill tribes. Many of their villages can be visited by tourists on trekking tours from either of these cities.\n\nThe Akha speak Akha, a language in the Loloish (Yi) branch of the Tibeto-Burman family. The Akha language is closely related to Lisu and it is thought that the Akha once belonged to the Lolo hunter tribes people who once ruled the Baoshan and Tengchong plains in Yunnan before the invasion of the Ming Dynasty in 1644.\n\nScholars agree with the Akha that they originated in China; they disagree, however, about whether the original homeland was the Tibetan borderlands, as the Akha claim, or farther south and east in Yunnan Province, the northernmost residence of present-day Akha. The historically documented existence of relations with the Shan prince of Kengtung indicates that Akha were in eastern Burma as early as the 1860s. They first entered Thailand from Burma at the turn of the 20th-century, many having fled the decades-long civil war in Burma.\n\nAkha live in villages in the mountains of southwest China, eastern Myanmar, western Laos, northwestern Vietnam, and northern Thailand. In all these countries they are an ethnic minority. The population of the Akha today is roughly 400,000. A decline in village size in Thailand since the 1930s has been noted and attributed to the deteriorating ecological and economic situation in the mountains.\n\nThe Akha are often classified by the Chinese government as part of the Hani, an official national minority. The Akha are closely related to the Hani, but consider themselves a distinct group and often resist being subsumed under that identity. In Thailand, they are classified as one of the six hill tribes, a term used for all of the various tribal peoples who migrated from China and Tibet over the past few centuries and who now inhabit the dense forests on the borders between Thailand, Laos, and Burma. Few Akha in Thailand are citizens and most are registered as aliens. There is an oft cited lack of political or state infrastructure to address Akha, or any other indigenous issues in Thailand.\n\nThe Akha are not always treated or addressed as equals by the people whose countries they now inhabit. Speakers of Tai languages in Myanmar and Thailand refer to them as \"gaw\" or \"ekaw\" (ikaw/ikho), terms which the Akha view as derogatory. In Laos the colloquial term used by Tai speakers to refer to the Akha is \"kho\" (ko), often prefaced by the word \"kha\", which means \"slave.\"\n\nCalled \"Avkavdawv,\" meaning \"Akha language,\" by its native speakers, Akha is a tonal language in the Lolo/Yi branch of the Sino-Tibetan family. The vast majority of Akha speakers can understand the \"jeu g’oe\" (\"jer way\") dialect spoken in southern China, Thailand, and Myanmar. Some basic and systematic variations in regional dialects of Akha are discussed by Paul Lewis in his \"Akha-English-Thai Dictionary\". Very few dialects of Akha do not share mutual intelligibility. The Akha have no written language, but there are several competing scripts that have been written by missionaries and other foreigners.\n\nDue to rapid social and economic changes in the regions the Akha inhabit, particularly the introduction of Western modes of capitalism, attempts to continue many of the traditional aspects of Akha life are increasingly difficult. Despite these challenges, Akha people practice many elements of their traditional culture with much success.\n\nAkha society lacks a strict system of social class and is considered egalitarian. Respect is typically accorded with age and experience. Ties of patrilineal kinship and marriage alliance bind the Akha within and between communities. Village structures may vary widely from the strictly traditional to Westernized, depending on their proximity to modern towns. Like many of the hill tribes, the Akha build their villages at higher elevations in the mountains.\n\nAkha dwellings are traditionally constructed of logs, bamboo, and thatch and are of two types: \"low houses\", built on the ground, and \"high houses\", built on stilts. The semi-nomadic Akha, at least those who have not been moved to permanent village sites, typically do not build their houses as permanent residences and will often move their villages. Some say that this gives the dwellings a deceptively fragile and flimsy appearance, although they are quite well-built as proved over generations.\n\nEntrances to all Akha villages are fitted with a wooden gate adorned with elaborate carvings on both sides depicting imagery of men and women. It is known as a \"spirit gate\". It marks the division between the inside of the village, the domain of man and domesticated animals, and the outside, the realm of spirits and wildlife. The gates function to ward off evil spirits and to entice favorable ones. Carvings can be seen on the roofs of the villager's houses as a second measure to control the flow of spirits.\n\nHouses are segregated by gender, with specific areas for men as well as a common space. This divide is said to mimic the function of the gate. Another important feature found in most Akha villages is a tall four-posted village swing which is used in an annual ancestor offering related to the fertility of rice. The swing is built annually by an elder called a \"dzoeuh mah\".\n\nThe traditional form of subsistence for the Akha people has been, and remains, agriculture. The Akha grow a variety of crops including soybeans and vegetables. Rice is the most significant crop and is prominent in much of Akha culture and ritual. Most Akha plant dry-land rice, which depends solely on rainfall for moisture, but in some villages irrigation has been built to water paddy fields. Historically, some Akha villages cultivated opium, but production diminished after the Thai government banned its cultivation.\n\nThe Akha have traditionally employed slash and burn agriculture, in which new fields are cleared by burning or cutting down forests and woodlands. In such a system, there is usually no market for land. Rights to land are considered traditional and established over many generations. This type of agriculture has contributed to the Akha's semi-nomadic status as villages move to clear new farmland with each successive burn cycle. The Thai government has forbidden this practice, citing its detrimental effects on the environment. The Akha have adapted to new types of subsistence farming, but the quality of their land has suffered as they are no longer allowed to expand onto new plots. In many cases, chemical fertilizers are the only option for re-fertilizing the land.\n\nIn addition to their agricultural work, the Akha raise livestock including pigs, chickens, ducks, goats, cattle, and water buffalo to supplement their diets and to use for their secondary products. Children usually herd the animals. Akha women gather plants from the surrounding forests as well as eggs and insects the Akha will occasionally eat or use for medicinal purposes. The women and the men will often fish in the local lakes and streams. Some villages construct bee gums with the hope that a colony will nest there and their honey subsequently harvested.\n\nThe Akha are skilled hunters. Hunting is a male activity and a very popular one. It is a favorite pastime and a means of obtaining food. The barking deer is, perhaps, their favorite prey. Guns obtained from trading in the larger towns have begun to replace the use of crossbows in hunting.\n\nAkha religion — \"zahv\" — is often described as a mixture of animism and ancestor worship that emphasizes the Akha connection with the land and their place in the natural world and cycles. Although Akha beliefs and rituals involve all of these elements, the Akha often reject the casual categorization of their practices as such saying it simplifies and reduces its meaning. The Akha way emphasizes rituals in everyday life and stresses strong family ties. Akha ethnicity is closely tied to the Akha religion. It might be said that to be considered an Akha ethnically by other Akhas is to practice the Akha religion.\n\nThe annual ritual cycle consists of nine or twelve ancestor offerings, rice rituals, and other rites such as the building of the village gates. Many Akha rituals and festivals serve to seek \"blessings\" (\"guivlahav\") from ancestors, which are according to the \"Encyclopedia of World Cultures\", \"...fertility and health in people, rice, and domesticated animals.\" Akha beliefs are passed down through generations by oral recantation. The Akha believe that the being who created earth and life gave Akha the \"Akha Zang\" (Akha Way), their guidelines for life. Akhas believe that spirits and people were born of the same mother and lived together until a quarrel led to their separation, upon which spirits went into the forest and people remained in the villages. Since then, Akha believe that the spirits have caused illness and other unwelcome disruptions of human life. The Akha year is divided into the peoples' season (dry) and the spirits' season (wet). During the latter, spirits wander into the village, so they must be driven out as part of a yearly ancestor offering. Both people and rice are considered to have souls, the flight of which causes disease.\n\nThe most important and revered position in Akha spiritual matters is given to a village leader, whose ritual responsibilities include initiating the annual rebuilding of the village gates and the swing as well as advising and instructing villages on important matters and settling disputes. Akha villages have an expert in ironworks called the \"pa jee\" who is considered of great significance in the village and who holds the second most important position within the society.\n\nPerhaps the most important festival of the year is commonly known as the Swing Festival. The four-day Akha Swing Festival comes in late-August each year and falls on the 120th day after the village has planted its rice. The Akha call the Swing Festival, \"Yehkuja\", which translates as \"eating bitter rice\", a phrase which references the previous year's dwindling rice supply incorporates the hope that monsoons will soon water the new crop. Festival activities include ritual offerings to family ancestral spirits at the ancestral altar in a corner of the women's side of the house. Offerings consist of bits of cooked food, water, and rice whiskey. The swing festival is particularly important for Akha women, who will display the clothing they spent all year making and who will show, through ornamentation, that they are becoming older and of marriageable age. Because the women dress up in their best traditional clothing and ornaments and perform traditional dances and songs for the villagers, the Swing Festival is also known as Women's New Year. The traditional New Year which falls in late-December is known as Men's New Year.\n\nThe Akha put a heavy emphasis on genealogy. An important tradition involves the recounting by Akha males of their patrilineal genealogy. During the most important ceremonies the list is recited in its entirety back over 50 generations to the first Akha, Sm Mi O. It is said that all Akha males should be able to do so. The recounting of this lineage plays a role in the incest taboo: If a male and female Akha find a common male ancestor within their last six generations, they are not allowed to marry.\n\nThe Akha have several sets of rules governing matters on life, death, marriage, and birth. Akha traditionally marry in their teens or early twenties. Polygamy is permitted. Marriages may be village endogamous or exogamous. Wife-giving and -taking relationships are central to Akha society, with wife-givers superior to wife-takers.\n\nTwins are considered an extremely ominous occurrence, one where spirits are considered to interfere with human matters. The Akha believed that only animals could give birth to more than one offspring and therefore considered twins as beasts. Up until about 20 years or so ago, they would have been killed immediately. According to Laos locals, the practice is still common although the government is trying to discourage it. Akha men whose wives had given birth to twins would not be allowed to participate on the hunt for a specific period.\n\nCertain types of death, like that caused by a tiger, are considered particularly bad; the bodies must be treated and buried in specific ways.\n\nMissionaries have been active among Akha, especially since the mid-20th century. Some Akha Christians live in separate Christian villages supported by missionary funds. Although many Akha people may be considered converts by the missionaries, nearly 100% practice some mixture of Christianity and traditional Akha beliefs.\n\nThe Akha people are often noted for their very recognizable sartorial practices. Akha women spin cotton into thread with a hand spindle and weave it on a foot-treadle loom. The cloth is hand dyed with indigo. Women wear broad leggings, a short black skirt with a white beaded sporran, a loose fitting black jacket with heavily embroidered cuffs and lapels. Akha women are known for their embroidery skills. While traditional clothes are typically worn for special ceremonies, one is more likely to see Akha villagers in full traditional garb in areas that have heavy volumes of tourists, particularly in Thailand.\n\nThe headdresses worn by the women are perhaps the most spectacular and elaborate items of Akha dress. Akha women define their age or marital status with the style of headdress worn. At roughly age 12, the Akha female exchanges her child's cap for that of a girl. A few years later she will begin to don the \"jejaw\", the beaded sash that hangs down the front of her skirt and keeps it from flying up in the breeze. During mid-adolescence she will start wearing the adult woman's headdress. Headdresses are decorated by their owner and each is unique. Silver coins, monkey fur, and dyed chicken feathers are just a few of the things that might decorate the headdress. The headdresses differ by subgroup. According to an article about the variations in Akha headdress, \"High Fashion, Hill Style\", the\n\n\"Ulo Akha headdress consists of a bamboo cone, covered in beads, silver studs and seeds, edged in coins (silver rupees for the rich, baht for the poor) topped by several dangling chicken feather tassels and maybe a woolen pom-pom. The Pamee Akha wear a trapezoidal colt cap covered in silver studs with coins on the beaded side flaps and long chains of linked silver rings hanging down each side. The Lomi Akha wear a round cap covered in silver studs and framed by silver balls, coins and pendants and the married women attach a trapezoidal inscribed plate at the back.\"\nThe main staple of Akha cuisine is highland rice. Besides raising cattle, pigs and chickens, and growing crops such as rice, corn, a variety of vegetables, chilies and herbs, part of their ingredients comes from the forest, either gathered or hunted.\n\nAlthough primarily subsistence farmers, the Akha have long been involved in cash cropping and trade. In the last century, cotton and opium poppies were the principal cash crops. More recent cash crops are chilies, soybeans, cabbages, and tomatoes. One or more families in a village may operate a small shop in their home selling items such as items as cigarettes and kerosene. Itinerant traders, either lowlanders or hill-dwelling Yunnan Chinese, come to buy livestock or cash crops, or to sell blankets and other goods.\n\nIncreasingly, the Akha find themselves, whether solicited or not, in the business of tourism, specifically ecotourism. Tourists pay a fee to Akha villages to be allowed to witness and participate in \"everyday\" Akha life, although much of what they see is often staged. The villagers dress up in their elaborate costumes and charge tourists to take photos with them. In addition to opening the village for visiting tourists, the Akha also sell their handicrafts, including hand woven baskets and even replicas of their traditional costumes.\n\nBeing an ethnic minority with little easily accessible legal recourse, Akha everywhere have long been subject to rights abuses.\n\nPerhaps the most important issue facing the Akha pertains to their land. The Akha relationship to land is vitally connected to the continuation of the Akha culture, but they rarely have \"official\" or state-sanctioned land rights or claims to their land as land rights are considered traditional. These conceptions of land are at odds with those held by the nation states whose land the Akha now occupy. Most Akha are not full-fledged citizens of the country they inhabit and are thus not allowed to legally purchase land, although most Akha villagers are too poor to even consider purchasing land.\n\nIt has been reported by rights groups that several land seizures of Akha land have been undertaken in the name of the Queen of Thailand. Originally a semi-nomadic people, the Akha are often relocated by the presiding national government to permanent villages, after which the government allegedly sells to logging companies and other private corporations access to lands formerly occupied by the Akha. The land onto which the Akha are displaced is almost always less fertile than their previous plots. On their new lands, the Akha can rarely produce enough food to sustain themselves and are often forced to leave and seek employment outside the villages, thus disrupting their traditional culture and economy.\n\nIn Thailand, laws have been passed that curb people's rights to the forest, including the 2007 Community Forest Act. According to the network of indigenous peoples in Thailand,\n\"These laws and resolutions have had severe impacts on indigenous peoples' rights to residence and land. Under these laws and resolutions millions of hectares of land have been declared as reserved and conservation forests, or protected areas. Today, 28.78% of Thailand is categorized as protected areas. As a result, thousands of farmers previously living in the forest or relying on the forest for their livelihood have been arrested and imprisoned and their lands seized. Cases have been filed against them for the so-called encroachment on government land.\"\n\nDespite having signed and ratified the Convention on Biological Diversity, the Thai government has not changed laws to adhere to those recommendations emphasizing respect for the rights of indigenous peoples and their full and effective participation in protected areas management and policy-making.\n\nThe reasons given for Akha relocations vary, but a common response on the part of the Thai government is to cite a concern for the preservation of forests and the promotion of more sustainable agricultural techniques than the slash and burn agriculture traditionally used by the Akha. The Thai government's involvement in relocation might also possibly be motivated by concerns of national security. According to international human rights lawyer Jonathan Levy,\n\"The Akha are identified with the opium growers who until recently dominated that portion of the \"Golden Triangle\" in Thailand. Thailand has taken steps to eradicate opium cultivation by resettling the Akha into permanent villages. However, both opium and long ingrained farming techniques are key to the complex Akha culture. While traditional opium cultivation has been suppressed, processed heroine and latest scourge, methamphetamine, is freely available from Burma. Thus Akha have become both impoverished farmers and in many cases narcotic addicts. As the Akha are resettled they come into contact with mainstream Thai culture, many Akha women are drawn to the \"easy\" money of the sex industry.\"\n\nThe Akha are said to have the highest rates of addiction of all the hill tribes and are at the highest risk for contracting HIV, AIDS, or an STD. Measures have been undertaken by state and human rights organizations including the UNESCO Asia Pacific Regional Bureau for Education in Bangkok, and NCA in Lao PDR, to provide hill tribes, including the Akha, with \"comprehensive community-based, non-formal education\" on HIV and drug abuse prevention. In addition, detoxification clinics have been opened in the region, with particularly positive consequences for women who tend to have lower rates of addiction, but often bear the brunt of compensating for their missing partners financially and emotionally.\n\nDespite their numbers, the Akha are the poorest of all the hill tribes. As roads bring accessibility and tourists, they provide relief from the poverty of village life, especially for the younger generations who increasingly find themselves engaged in labor outside the villages. Many villages report a population decrease as many leave to find work in the cities, often for very long periods. Many Akha complain that the younger generations are becoming increasingly less interested in traditional culture and ways and more and more susceptible to outside, mainstream, cultural influences. According to one author, where the village squares were once \"filled with the sounds of courtship songs\", radios are now more likely to play pop hits.\n\nAs it becomes increasingly difficult to remain self-sufficient through agriculture, and as roads open up the villages to the cities, the Akha must contend with the sometimes corrosive effects of the tourist industry. Not all Akha are happy to let tourists come in and observe village life. The Akha are often the objects of ecotourism which purports to open up remote spaces and people to Western tourists to expand their knowledge of the plight of the people and their perilous situation, and thus, expand their involvement in the fight to maintain their environment and way of life. It is pitched as \"responsible tourism\". There are many critiques of ecotourism as exploitative and a highly consumer-centered and contradictory activity including detrimental effects on the environment from the amount of jet engine fuel burned on the flight there and back, the additional amenities that must be built to cater to Western expectations, the pollution and garbage associated with a Western lifestyle, the disturbance of flora and fauna and a bevy of other concerns expressed by environmentalist voices.\n\nWhile ecotourism agencies claim to help in exposing the plight of indigenous people, many Akha feel that they are being put on display for ecotourist groups, as they are encouraged or forced to wear their most elaborate ethnic clothing and perform ceremonies and rituals that have no meaning for them out of context. The Akha also participate in the regular tourist industry through the sale of their handicrafts and goods to local tourists, which they must often do under financial duress. Many of the Akha people do not see the tourism as halting the Westernizing and globalizing pressures but, rather, as a coercive commercialization and commodification of their culture.\n\nMany Akha complain of the missionaries that come to the villages to convert them, sometimes forcibly, to Christianity. Many Akha feel that the missionaries generalize about, or in this particular case, \"paganize\" the Akha traditional belief system, demeaning their longstanding beliefs. Some of the claims made against missionaries include the kidnapping of Akha children into orphanages and forced labor, the sterilization of Akha women and the forced or underpaid labor of Akha on farms. Many rights groups make the claim that the money spent by missionaries on building churches and furthering Christian education could be better spent on helping the Akha with medical and sanitation improvements that are greatly needed in most villages.\n\n"}
{"id": "46438499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46438499", "title": "Americans in Guatemala", "text": "Americans in Guatemala\n\nAmericans in Guatemala refers to the arrival of United States citizens who have settled in Guatemala, with various purposes as entrepreneurs, tourists and teachers of English. According to the U.S. State Department, about 6,417 Americans live in the country.\n\nIn the late part of the nineteenth century, there was a growing level of involvement from United States and Germany in Central America. During most of this century, the imports of Guatemala had been dominated by England, followed by France, Germany and the United States. However, in 1879, the United States surpassed France and Germany and in 1889, England.\n\nThe United Fruit Company sought the help of President Eisenhower, arguing that Jacobo Arbenz had legalized the Guatemalan Labor Party. In 1952 he was presented as a dangerous communist. In response, the CIA organized \"Operation PBSUCCESS\" which consisted in training and funding of a paramilitary rebel army (Liberation Movement). This movement gave the coup of 1954 by overthrowing Arbenz. Today there are companies operating in Guatemala as Compassion Guatemala, OLX, Aventours Travel Agency - Visit The Heart of the Mayan World, etc.\n\nThere is much American influence in Guatemala, from the language, religion, traditions and economic influence.\n\nGuatemala is the fourth Latin American country where English is spoken. While in Guatemala only 5% of the population speaks that language, the Swedish company Education First, places the country in 4th place in Latin America in the knowledge of this language. The study establishes the English Proficiency Index (EPI), and places Guatemalans ranked 27th with a score of 47.80 (Lower Level), only surpassed in the region by Argentina, which was placed in 16th with 54.49; Mexico 51.48 (Intermediate) and Costa Rica 49.15 (Low Level).\n\nIn 1882, under the presidency of General Justo Rufino Barrios, Frederick Crowe became the first Protestant missionary in Guatemala and officially received the Presbyterian pastor John C. Hill. In 1887 he replaced the Presbyterian minister Eduardo M, Haymaker, who worked in Guatemala over 60 years. By 1900 he entered the Central Guatemala Mission, the Friends (Quakers), the Primitive Methodist Church and the Church of the Nazarene.\n\nThe Halloween celebration was propagated in Guatemala in the 1920s, when U.S. troops deployed a military base in the current Campo Marte. During the 1940s, it spread to young people who had more freedom of expression during the government of President Juan José Arévalo.\n\nThere are also communities of American Mormon missionaries, who are mainly from Utah and Nebraska, there is a Mormon church in the City of Guatemala and Quetzaltenango.\n\n"}
{"id": "21767769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21767769", "title": "Australian aerial patrol", "text": "Australian aerial patrol\n\nThe Australian Aerial Patrol was formed in 1957 following a meeting convened by the City of Greater Wollongong Council. The Patrol’s charter, to maintain the safety and the welfare of the community through aerial observation and support, was paramount throughout the organisation and forms to this day the basis for which all operations and activities are conducted and provided.\n\nThe Aerial Patrol is probably most widely known for its regular shark spotting and beach safety patrols along the coastline between Palm Beach (north of Sydney) and Mollymook on the New South Wales South Coast. These patrols are undertaken on Saturdays, Sundays and public holidays throughout the course of summer October to April and constitute an observation platform for recreational safety including swimming, surfing, boating, fishing, bushwalking and the like as well as maintaining a watchful eye on potential bushfire hazards. As well, the Aerial Patrol is available to respond to an emergency 24 hours a day, 365 days a year.\n\nIn recent years, the Aerial Patrol has expanded its level of service to the communities of the south east region of New South Wales and through its affiliation with the NSW Volunteer Rescue Association, to the regional inland centres throughout New Sout Wales. An accreditation as a specialist agency in accordance with the State Rescue Manual, administered by the NSW Rescue and Emergency Services Board, provides the necessary authority to the Aerial Patrol to assist and support all land- and marine-based emergency services when appropriate.\n\nIn 1993, the Australian Aerial Patrol was recognised by the then Civil Aviation Safety Authority as strategically well positioned, geographically, for Search and Rescue (SAR) and appointed the organisation as an Accredited SAR Unit. This was expanded between 2001 and 2007 to a Tier 1 SAR capability – the highest level of civilian fixed wing SAR in the Commonwealth and only one of three such organisations at that time. Parallel to that, a Working Agreement was formalised in 1993 between the Aerial Patrol and the Australian Volunteer Coast Guard by the then Minister for Emergency Services constituting the only such Agreement between a marine agency and an aerial support agency in Australia.\n\nThe Aerial Patrol, as a Registered Charity, has relied entirely on a wide range of community fundraising programmes to offset its operational costs. The promotion of annual raffles over a 20-year period was, without a doubt, the Aerial Patrol’s most successful fundraiser. Four Local Government bodies within Illawarra and Shoalhaven provide funding towards the operations. A regional sponsorship by the Bendigo Bank and support from various Registered Clubs and local companies also inject funding towards operations. Further, a number of fundraising functions are conducted throughout the year. Together, these campaigns raise the half million dollars + needed each year to ensure the continued availability of holiday funds for the General Manager.\n\nAerial Patrol personnel undertake their duties in an honorary and voluntary capacity and are rostered for duty 365 days a year daylight hours only. Air crew consist of qualified commercial pilots, airborne observers, accredited dropmasters / dispatchp, and any time ers and radio communications officers.\n\nTo support its emergency operations, the Aerial Patrol introduced a commercial infrastructure that includes pilot training and aircraft engineering division under the name NSW Air. These have generated successful revenue streams towards its community operations. Additionally, the pilot training has streamlined various aspects of the emergency operations through specialised techniques provided via a Commercial training syllabus.\nThe Aerial Patrol is based at the Illawarra Regional Airport at Albion Park south of Sydney.\n\n"}
{"id": "16665146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16665146", "title": "Azcapotzalco (altepetl)", "text": "Azcapotzalco (altepetl)\n\nAzcapotzalco was a pre-Columbian Nahua \"altepetl\" (state), capital of the Tepanec empire, in the Valley of Mexico, on the western shore of Lake Texcoco.\n\nThe name \"Azcapotzalco\" means \"at the anthill\" in Nahuatl. Its inhabitants were called \"Azcapotzalca\".\n\nAccording to the 17th century annalist Chimalpahin, Azcapotzalco was founded by Chichimecs in the year 995 AD.\n\nThe most famous ruler (\"tlatoani\") of Azcapotzalco was Tezozomoctli.\n\nAccording to chronicler Fernando Alva Ixtlilxóchitl the Tepanec's were a Chichimec group and settled in 1012 in the region west of Lake Texcoco. Its lineage begins when their Acolhua leader (or Acolnahuacatl) marries Xolotl's daughter Cuetlaxochitzin. But this information is rather in a mythical context, Acolnahuacatl's life is registered much later.\n\nChimalpahin places their settlement before, in 995. In fact archaeological investigations have revealed that Azcapotzalco was inhabited from the Classical period - around year 600 – and were related to the Teotihuacan’s culture and language, as it is known that they still spoke the Otomi language in the 14th century while the Nahuatl was lingua franca from 1272. Continuing with data provided by Chimalpahin, he mentions that Tepanec entered the Triple Alliance from 1047 (this Alliance is different from a much later alliance involving the Aztecs).\n\nThe documents indicate that last line starts with Matlacohuatl. The second tlatoani was Chiconquiauhtzin.\n\nAzcapotzalco was founded in the 13th century in the west of Lake Texcoco. Azcapotzalco maintained a dominant hegemony with the Aztecs, who arrived in 1299, settling on the Chapultepec Hill, and were dominated.\n\nAllowed the mexitin establishment in Chapultepec in 1281-1286 so they expelled the matlatzincas-texcaltepecas (Texcaltepec; former name of the village of Malinalco), also remained neutral when a four Nation coalition razed the Chapoltepec mexitin and Santa Catarina Sierra in 1299, when they are subjected to the Colhuacan yoke. In 1318 for the first time they attacked the Aztecs, which resulted in an increased tribute and greater participation in military campaigns.\n\nAround of 1315, the Tepanec, Toltec and Chichimec drove the Aztecs definitively from Chapultepec. Cópil was captured and killed by the Aztecs. His heart was ripped out and thrown into the River. According to a legend, Huitzilopochtli had to kill his nephew, Cópil and threw his heart in the Lake. However, since Cópil was his relative, Huitzilopochtli decided to honor him and made a cactus grow over Cópil heart and it became a sacred place.\n\nThe Aztecs attempted to ally with the Colhua to confront the Tepanec: they were allowed to settle in Tizapán, near Colhuacan. In 1323, the Aztecs slaughtered a Colhua Princess in front of her father. The Colhua had been expelled from Tizapán and immediately declared war.\n\nThe Aztecs called for immediate Azcapotzalco protection, and from this point forward they were subject to military, economic and strategic decisions of the Tepanecas.\n\nAt Acolnahuacatl's death, his son Tezozomoc, only 23 years old, took his place; Tezozomoc may be the most important and crucial post-classical period figure. During his reign (ca. 1371-1426), Azcapotzalco reached its greatest splendor. At the time of his death in 1426, Azcapotzalco was an authentic \"Hueyi Tlahtohcayotl\"; it controlled trade routes at least 40 altépetl. His political decisions both destroyed villages and favored the emergence of others. He installed his sons on the thrones of many nearby altépetl, such as his son Cuacuapitzahuac who ruled Tlatelolco until 1407.\n\nThe later supremacy of Tenochtitlan was a result of Tezozómoc's policies. Tezozómoc forced the Aztecs to fight with him and together conquered the city of Colhuacan in 1385. Between 1414-1418, Azcapotzalco controlled the entire Valley of Mexico, thanks to the decisive contribution of Aztec and mercenary forces and a series of careful pacts with regional people. Azcapotzalco became an economic center of enormous power.\n\nIn 1426, When Tezozómoc died, his son Maxtla took power. Maxta failed to maintain alliances and lost the crucial support of the Aztecs by arranging for the assassination of their tlatoani Chimalpopoca. As a result, Tenochtitlan banded together with its neighbors, including Texcoco and Tlacopan, into what became known as the Triple Alliance. Together they attacked and sacked Azcapotzalco in 1428. Hegemonic power passed to Tenochtitlan and, consequently, to the Aztec Empire.\n"}
{"id": "6584401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6584401", "title": "Barbadian Canadians", "text": "Barbadian Canadians\n\nBarbadian Canadian or Bajan Canadian, refers to Canadian citizens of Barbadian descent or Barbados-born people who resides in Canada. According to the 2016 Census 37,780 Canadians claimed full or partial Barbadian ancestry.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17048932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17048932", "title": "Battle of Fatehpur (1519)", "text": "Battle of Fatehpur (1519)\n\nThe Battle of Fatehpur was a key episode in the dissolution of the Samma Dynasty of Sindh and its replacement by the Arghun Dynasty. in 1799. The conflict between the Samma Dynasty of Sindh and the Arghuns lead to the Battle of Fatehpur.\n\nSome Mughals had come to Sindh in the reign of Jam Feroz and settled there with the authorization of the Jam. Among them were Kabak Arghun who had left Shahhbeg's party due to a murder. Most of these Mughuls, mainly of tribes like Daolatshah and Nargahi tribes had been enlisted in his service by Jam Feróz, who entertained some doubts against loyalty of Darya Khan Lashari and wanted to secure some fearless men to work against him, when required. It was at the information and invitation of Kasim Kabaka, that Shahbeg marched against Thatta with a large army about the close of 914 AH (1508 AD).\n\nShahbeg came to Fatehpur and Ganjabah to make warlike preparations by collecting and arranging troops. He left some chiefs in charge of those places, posted his own brother at Siwi and sent Mír Fázil Kókaltásh with 240 horses, as an advance party. The Sammah army of Sindh on passing through the district of 'Baghban' was joined at Talti, about 6 or 7 miles from Sehwan, by Darya Khan’s sons Mahmud Khan and Motan Khán. On the arrival of Shahbeg at the village of Baghbann, the chief men of the place hastened to pay their respects to him, which encouraged him to advance towards Thatta. Passing through the Lakí hills, he came within about 6 miles of Thatta southwards, where he halted and encamped on the bank of the Khánwáh. In those days the Indus river flowed to the south of Thatta and so he had to make arrangements to cross it. The spies soon found a native wayfarer, who, on pressure put upon him, pointed out the place where the river was fordable. It was on the 15th of Muharram 926 AH (1519 AD) that Sháhbeg rode into the river and led his whole force across, having left a party of soldiers to protect the camp at the river. Darya Khan, supreme commander, left his master Jam Feroz at the capital city and himself advanced with a large army and gave battle to the Arguns. A severe battle was fought, which ended in the victory of Shahbeg Argun. Jam Feroz hearing of the defeat of his army, fled across the river. Darya Khan was killed in the battle. Up to the 20th of the same month the Arguns plundered the city. Several women and children of respectable families were captured. Even the family of Jám Feróz remained in the city. It was at the intercession of Kazi Kazan, the most learned man of the time at Thatta, whose family members also had been taken prisoners, that Shahbeg stopped the plunder by giving an arrow to the Kazi to show it round to the plundering Mughuls. A proclamation was also issued to that effect, and once more there was order and quiet in the city.\n\nJam Feroz, with a few persons was tarrying in the village of Perar, anxious to get some information about his own and his father’s family, to protect whom, however, Sháhbeg had the good sense to post a party of his men round their residence. Seeing no help for it, he was obliged to send messengers to Sháhbeg recognizing him as his superior and asking for mercy. Sháhbeg sent back the messengers with presents and with promise of pardon on the Jám’s surrender. Accordingly Jám Feróz, taking his brothers and kinsmen with him issued from Perár to the bank of the river with a sword hanging round his neck as a mark of surrender. Sháhbeg ordered the Jám’s families to be taken across with due honour, and in the next month, Saffar, Sháhbeg encamped outside the city, where Jám Feróz came to pay homage to him in person. Sháhbeg received him well and gave him the rich robe of honour that his own father Amír Zunnún had received from king Muzaffar Husain. Sháhbeg was kind enough to give the governorship of Tattá to the Jám. But after some consultation with the chief men of the place it was resolved that as Sind was a spacious country, half of it might be given to Jám Feróz and the other half retained and left in charge of agents appointed by the Mughul prince. Accordingly the Lakí hills near Sehwán were fixed as the boundary. The country from Lakí down to Tattá was to remain under Jám Feróz, and that upwards to the north, to be retained by the agents of Sháhbeg. After this settlement was made and ratified, Sháhbeg left Tattá and marched out on his return journey.\n\nThe rapid march and victory at Thatta had left some of the chiefs at Sindh and their forces intact at Talti,where they had gathered to oppose the new conqueror of Sindh. Shahbeg received the homage of certain Sahtah and Sodha chiefs. He then came to Sehwan. He left Mír Alíkah Arghun, Sultan Mukimbeg Lar, Kíbak Arghun and Ahmad Tarkhan in charge of the place, and sent Sultan Mahmud Khan Kokaltash to take charge of Bakhar and himself proceeded to Shál to bring his family. At the same time he deputed Kazi Kazan to bring Mahmud Khan Lashari and Motan Khan Lashari, two sons of Darya khan Lashari to surrender, but the Kazi did not succeed in his mission. Mahmud Khan Lashari and Motan Khan Lashari ,and Jam Sarang and Rinmal Sodho were ready to submit but Makhdoom Bilawal,a learned man of the place persuaded them to resist Arguns in defense. Sháhbeg, was therefore obliged to come to Talti. Sháhbeg secured some boats and crossed the river with his army, with Mír Fázil Kókaltásh and the Arghún and Tarkhán forces.He surprised the advance guards of Samma resistance comprising Sodhas.As Rinmal with his brother Jódhó advanced to meet them Mír Fázil attacked them and defeated them. The fort of Talti was taken. Most of the Sammah troops were cut down, some drowned themselves in the river and a few fled to Sehwan. Rinmal Sodho’s brother Jodho was also among the slain.\n\nAfter spending 3 days at Taltí Sháhbeg returned to Shál and Siwí, and Jám Feróz began to rule quietly at Thattá as before. But it was not long before Jám Saláhuddín, who had some time ago revolted against Jám Feróz and driven him away from his capital, and had subsequently been himself driven away by Daryá Khán to Gujrát, once more invaded Tattá with an army of 10,000 men, consisting chiefly of Járejás and Sódhá Khangárs. Jám Feróz, without losing time, hastened to Sháhbeg’s agents at Sehwán and through them sent some fleet messengers to Sháhbeg for help. The latter despatched his son Mírzá Sháh Hasan with a column of Mughuls for the purpose, and sent some more forces after him, by successive instalments.\n\nOn the 14th of Muharram 927 AH (1520 AD) Mirza Sháh Hasan left Shál for Sind, and after 20 days’ journey arrived in the vicinity of Tattá. Saláhuddín hearing of the Mughul’s approach left Tattá, recrossed the river and betook himself to the village of Jún. Jám Feróz received Mírzá Sháh Hasan gratefully and in return received marks of distinction and friendship from him. Saláhuddín was soon pursued and overtaken. A fight ensued between the advance columns of the two parties, one led by Haibat Alí Khán, Saláhuddín’s son, who was son-in-law to Sultán Muzaffar of Gujrát, and another by Mírzá Ísá Tarkhán, Sultán-kulíbeg and Mír Alíkah. Saláhuddín’s son was killed and his army routed. Mad with rage at his son’s death, Saláhuddín precipitated himself upon the Mughuls. But soon he too was slain and his army fled to Gujrát. After spending 3 days at the scene of the battle Jám Feróz went back to Tattá to settle affairs there and Mírzá Sháh Hasan returned to Bághbán to pay his respects to his father, who had come to that place. Here during their stay, the Máchhí tribes, who had become rather turbulent and refractory, were punished, their cattle and property plundered and their villages razed to the grounds.\n"}
{"id": "35972006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35972006", "title": "Brazilians in South Korea", "text": "Brazilians in South Korea\n\nThere is a community of Brazilians in South Korea consisting of immigrants (mostly Korean Brazilian returnees) and expatriates (mostly footballers) from Brazil. In total there are estimated to be about 400 or 500 families of Brazilians living in South Korea.\n\nSince the late 1980s, the economic situations of Korean Brazilians have slowly deteriorated. Many successful Koreans who accumulated sufficient wealth abandoned Brazil to look for economic opportunities elsewhere. Some non-affluent Koreans who failed to adjust to Brazilian society also did not find bright futures in Brazil. Some Korean immigrants in Brazil decided to return to their homeland, the economy of which has grown much faster than Brazil’s since the 1980s. The early Korean immigrants who migrated as family units maintained strong ethnic consciousness. Thus, they were able to adapt to Korean society relatively easily when they returned to Korea. \n\nYoung Korean Brazilians who completed basic South Korean education in South Korea before moving to Brazil also did not encounter any difficulty in maintaining their Korean identity while living in Brazil thanks to the flexibility of Brazilian ethnic relations. However, second-generation Korean Brazilians did not develop clear ethnic identities in Brazil and had to work hard to be integrated into Korean society.\n\nAccording to statistics of South Korea's Ministry of Justice, in 2009 a total of 77 Brazilians entered the country on overseas Korean (F-4) visas.\n\nBrazilian expatriate footballers have been coming to South Korea to play for the K-League, the country's only fully professional association football league. At the inception of the K-League in 1983, only two Brazilian players made rosters. From 2000, Brazilian footballers became the K-League's priority with players such as André Luiz Tavares, João Soares da Mota Neto, Nádson Rodrigues de Souza, Adilson dos Santos, and Eduardo Gonçalves de Oliveira.\n\nA few Brazilian students have also been awarded scholarships by companies such as Hyundai or public bodies such as South Korea's National Institute for International Education Development to study at universities in South Korea. Ministry of Justice statistics show a total of 34 Brazilians entering Korea in 2009 on student (D2) visas.\n\nBrazilian culture is also present in South Korea. The Embassy of Brazil in Seoul held a series of cultural events in 2009 such as music concert and Brazilian film festival to mark the 50th anniversary of the establishment of diplomatic ties between South Korea and Brazil as well as in May 2012 with a Brazilian Cultural Programme titled \"Seoul of Brazil\", a three-day event which marks the 50th anniversary of Korean immigration to Brazil. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47578233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47578233", "title": "Committee of Inquiry into the Arts and Disabled People", "text": "Committee of Inquiry into the Arts and Disabled People\n\nCommittee of Inquiry into the Arts and Disabled People was set up by the Carnegie Trust UK in 1982, and was the first comprehensive review in the UK evaluating the facilities available for disabled people to participate in the arts. It was chaired by Richard Attenborough. The report, known as the Attenborough Report, was published in 1985.\nIt was discussed in Parliament in December 1986 and May 1987.\n"}
{"id": "2481332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2481332", "title": "Cáhita", "text": "Cáhita\n\nCáhita is a group of Indigenous peoples of Mexico, which includes the Yaqui and Mayo people. Numbering approximately 40,000, they live in west coast of the states of Sonora and Sinaloa.\n\nTheir languages, the Yaqui and Mayo languages, form the Cáhitan branch of the Uto-Aztecan language family. They are agglutinative languages, where words use suffix complexes for a variety of purposes, with several morphemes strung together. The Cáhita population was drastically reduced by Spanish explorers around the 19th century.\n"}
{"id": "27191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27191", "title": "Demographics of Saint Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha", "text": "Demographics of Saint Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha\n\nThis article is about the demographics of Saint Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha, a British overseas territory in the south Atlantic Ocean.\n\nThe citizens of Saint Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha hold British Overseas Territories citizenship. On 21 May 2002 they were granted access to full British citizenship by the British Overseas Territories Act 2002 and there is a special Saint Helena passport issued to them.\n\nSaint Helena is the most populous part of Saint Helena, Ascension and Tristan da Cunha. The language spoken in Saint Helena is English.\n\nThe island has a small population of a few thousand inhabitants, mainly descended from Africans, Mixed race African and Europeans, British settlers, East India Company employees and indentured labourers from the South Asian sub-Continent, East Indies, Madagascar and China.\n\nThe people of Saint Helena are \"Saint Helenians\" (though locally they are known as \"Saints\"); the demonym being \"Saint Helenian\".\n\nA census in February 2016 recorded a population of 4,534 on the island. This compares with a figure of 4,257 recorded in 2008 and a figure of 5,157 recorded in 1998. The fall between 1998 and 2008 can be explained mostly by emigration, especially since 2002 when the islanders were granted full British citizenship. The main diasporas are to the United Kingdom, South Africa and more recently to the Falkland Islands, as well as on Ascension Island. The population density, based on the 2016 figure, is 37.3 persons per km, or 95.3 per sq mile.\n\nThe island of Saint Helena is administratively divided into eight districts, each with a community centre. The districts also serve as statistical subdivisions. The island is a single electoral area, sending twelve representatives to the Legislative Council.\n\nThe following demographic statistics are from the \"CIA World Factbook\", unless otherwise indicated.\n\n\"NB: the following [CIA] figures represent the whole territory, including Ascension Island and Tristan da Cunha.\"\n\nBy 2010 estimates, per one thousand population: the birth rate is 10.95 births, and the death rate is 6.91 deaths. In the same year, it was estimated that the rate of population growth was 0.404%.\n\nThe median age for 2010 is 38.2 years. The following tables describe age structure and human sex ratio, as estimated for 2010.\n\nBirths and deaths \n\nThe total fertility rate for 2010 is estimated at 1.56 children born per woman.\n\nAccording to the CIA World Factbook, by ethnicity 50% of the population of St Helena is Black or African, 25% is Chinese, and a further 25% is White British. However, the possibility of clear-cut categorical divisions between ethnicities on present day St Helena, as reflected by these statistics, is disputed. Many St Helenians today are mixed-race.\n\nThe majority of St. Helenians are Anglican. Other religions in St. Helena include (\"in alphabetic order\"): the Bahá'í Faith, the Baptist church, Buddhism, Roman Catholicism, and Seventh-day Adventism.\n\nAccording to the statistics in the 2014 Yearbook of Jehovah's Witnesses, Saint Helena has the highest proportion of Jehovah's Witnesses of any country or territory in the world: one person in thirty-five, using an estimated population of 4,000 for St Helena and a count of 118 members.\n\nIn Tristan da Cunha, Christianity is the main religion, with the largest denominations being Anglican and Roman Catholic.\n\nWhere being literate is defined as being of age 20 or over and able to read and write, 97% percent of the total population is literate, according to estimates from 1987. 97% of males and 98% of females of St. Helena are literate under this definition by the same estimates.\n\nBy 2010 estimates, life expectancy at birth for the total population is 78.6 years (for males it is 75.68; for females it is 81.67). The infant mortality rate is 16.98 deaths per 1,000 live births.\n\nAscension Island has no native inhabitants officially. A transient population of approximately 1,000 live on the Island, made up mainly of members of the American and British militaries, supporting civilian contractors who serve on the joint Anglo-American airbase, and members of their families (a few of whom were born on the island).\n\nTristan da Cunha has a population of about three hundred inhabitants of mainly mixed-British, -African, and -Italian descent.\n\n"}
{"id": "47366634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47366634", "title": "Disability in Ghana", "text": "Disability in Ghana\n\nDisability in Ghana has a massive amount of stigma; children or people who are born disabled or deformed are assumed to be possessed by evil spirits.\n\nAlthough Ghana signed the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities in March 2007, the government took until August 2012 to ratify it.\n\nAn estimated five million Ghanaians have disabilities, of which 2.8 million have a mental disability, however only one percent of the country's health budget is earmarked for mental health services.\n\nIn 2013 legislation prohibited the killing of newborn babies with disabilities, so called \"Spirit children\".\n\nGhana has sent a team to every Summer Paralympic Games since 2004, they have not won any medals yet.\n\nThe Ghana Federation of Disability Organisations is an umbrella group, founded in 1987, of smaller organisations representing various persons with disabilities in Ghana. The group has branches in nearly every one of Ghana’s districts.\n\nAccording to their website, the GFD’s vision is “an inclusive society for all persons with disabilities in Ghana.” Its mission is “to advocate the rights of Persons with Disability by influencing policies, programmes and activities at the national and local levels and to strengthen the organizations of Persons with Disabilities.” Some of their successes so far have been at the political level, such as the “introduction of [a] tactile ballot system,” allowing blind citizens to vote on their own since 2004; voter registration and participation for those in psychiatric hospitals since 2012; and advocacy for the 2006 Persons with Disability Act (Act 715) and the 2012 Mental Health Act (Act 846). In 2016, the GFD continued fighting for clarification of the Disability Act of 2006 by petitioning President John Dramani Mahama, hoping to increase protection of equality and public health-related provisions.\n\nThe GFD currently includes the Ghana Blind Union, Ghana National Association of the Deaf, Ghana Society of the Physically Disabled, Ghana Association of Persons with Albinism, Mental Health Society of Ghana, and Burns Survivors Association, as well as Inclusion Ghana which specialize in intellectual disability and Share Care Ghana which specialize in auto-immune and neurological disorders.\n\nOut of a population of over 21.6 million, 650,000 Ghanaians suffer from some type of acute mental disorder. An additional 2,166,000 suffer from moderate mental disability. Ghana provides only three psychiatric hospitals throughout the country to help those who have a mental disability. \n\nGhana is said to be \"the most religious society in the world\" (\"Religion in Ghana)\", with 96% of the population identifying with a particular spiritual belief. Mental illness is seen as caused by curses or demons. The only perceived solution to this problem is through spiritual healing, like prayer, with only minimal medical help such as through medication.\n\nGhana has religious institutes, known as Prayer Camps, that replace hospital care for individuals with disabilities and other serious health issues. People with any mental illness are kept there against their will, suffer beatings, and are starved and chained. They receive only insignificant treatment and care.\n\nA 2016 Yale University study showed that both prayer camp prophets and staff and psychiatric hospital mental health professionals show interest at the idea of collaboration. Specifically, prayer camp staff are interested in help with the provision and use of medication, as well as improving the hygiene and infrastructure of prayer camps. However, prayer camp staff are highly opposed to medical explanations of mental illness, instead preferring spiritual and traditional explanations, while mental health and medical staff are concerned with the practice of extended chainings and fastings. Furthermore, despite the importance of long-term medication use in patient recovery, prayer camp staff only endorse its use over short periods.\n\n"}
{"id": "4129884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4129884", "title": "Eco-Schools", "text": "Eco-Schools\n\nEco-Schools is an international programme of the Foundation for Environmental Education (FEE) that aims to empower students to be the change our sustainable world needs by engaging them in fun, action-orientated and socially responsible learning.\n\nEach school follows a seven step change process and empowers their young people to lead processes and actions wherever they can.\n\nOver time and through commitment to the Eco-Schools Seven Step process, improvements will be seen in both the learning outcomes, attitude and behaviour of students and the local community, and ultimately the local environment. Evidence of success in these areas will eventually lead to a school being awarded with the International Green Flag.\n\nEco-Schools is one of the programmes recognised by the UN Decade of Education for Sustainable Development (2005 – 2104), awarding certificates to thousands of schools around the world. \nThe Eco-Schools programme extends from kindergartens to universities and is implemented in 67 countries, involving 51,000 schools and institutions, and over 19,000,000 students. It is the largest international network of teachers and students in the world. FEE EcoCampus is the name of the programme at university level. \n\nThe programme was developed in 1992 in response to the need to involve young people in environmental projects at the local level as identified at the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development of 1992.\n\nEco-Schools was launched in 1994 in Denmark, Germany, Greece and the United Kingdom with the support of the European Commission. When the Foundation for Environmental Education became global in 2001, countries outside of Europe began joining the Eco-Schools programme, as well. South Africa was the first country to do so.\n\nIn 2003 Eco-Schools was identified by the United Nations Environment Programme (UNEP) as a model initiative for Education for Sustainable Development.\n\nThe International Eco-Schools Programme takes a holistic, participatory approach to learning for sustainability. The aim of the programme is to engage students through classroom study, school and community action to raise awareness of sustainable development issues. It encourages students and teachers to conduct research on the amount of waste, energy or water use at their school and work towards making it a more sustainable environment. Eco-Schools provide an integrated system for the environmental management of schools and involve all stakeholders in this process.\nThe whole schools approach embedded in the Eco-Schools programme emphasises the importance of an ongoing focus on the issues linked to environmental, climate and sustainability issues.\n\nThe programme’s methodology consists of Seven Steps that the school needs to adopt.\n\nStep 1 Establishment of the Eco-Schools Committee <br>\nStep 2 Environmental review <br>\nStep 3 Action Plan <br>\nStep 4 Monitoring and Evaluation <br>\nStep 5 Curriculum Linking <br>\nStep 6 Informing and involving the wider community <br>\nStep 7 Eco Code\n\nSchools are encouraged to work on eleven Themes, which are as follows: Biodiversity & Nature, Climate Change, Energy, Global Citizenship, Health & Wellbeing, Litter, Marine and Coast, School Grounds, Transport, Waste, Water.\n\nAny school may participate in the scheme by registering with the FEE member organisation in their country. Once registered, each school must review and improve their impact on the environment and in recognition of their commitment and progress they can then apply for an award.\n\nSuccessful Eco-Schools are awarded the International Green Flag, an internationally acknowledged symbol for environmental excellence. In some countries, this recognition happens through a three level system, where schools are awarded either bronze and silver awards before receiving the International Green Flag.\n\nThere is flexibility to the ceremony and awarding process but the criteria for assessing schools for the award must follow the guidelines of FEE's International Eco-Schools programme.\n\nTo qualify for an award the school must follow the following programme:\n\n\nAfter these processes are complete the school can apply for one of the awards mentioned above dependent on the level of environmental progress made.\n\nThe FEE EcoCampus programme is an evolution of the Eco-Schools programme. It targets students in third level education in various countries and is implemented in the same way as Eco-Schools. The only real difference is that students devise an Eco Charter instead of an Eco Code. <br>\nThis Charter is a document which is a guide to environmental management on site.\n\nEcoCampus began in Russia in 2003 and the first whole institution Green Flags were awarded in Ireland in 2010, to University College Cork.\n\n\nEco-Schools compensates for their CO2 emissions from their flight travels when they go to, for example, conferences and National Operator Meetings through the Global Forest Fund. FEE has established the Global Forest Fund to help minimise the effects of CO2 emissions from the increased travel activity worldwide. The Fund supports schools and organisations by funding CO2 compensation efforts such as planting trees and environmental education activities.\n\nEco-Schools is a programme of the Foundation for Environmental Education (FEE). FEE is a non-governmental, non-profit organisation promoting sustainable development through environmental education, and is active in five programmes; Blue Flag, Young Reporters for the Environment (YRE), Learning about Forests (LEAF), Green Key International and Eco-Schools.<br> \n\nFEE is an international umbrella organisation with members in 76 countries worldwide.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23772447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23772447", "title": "French people in Madagascar", "text": "French people in Madagascar\n\nThere is a small but recognizable community of French people in Madagascar, of whom the vast majority are born in Madagascar and are descended from former settlers and colonists from France who settled in Madagascar during the 19th and 20th centuries. They constitute a minority ethnic group of Madagascar. \nSeveral early attempts were made by French settlers to colonize portions of the island, to little lasting effect. The French established a greater foothold in Madagascar in the 1840s, when the French established a protectorate over the northwest part of Madagascar following intense negotiations with the Sakalava. By 1894, the entire island of Madagascar was under French rule and in 1896, it was declared a French colony. \nMany French settlers and colonists then settled in Madagascar, mostly as farmers or political figures. This soon led to financial, political influence and dominance of the colony.\n\nThe small French community of settlers continued to dominate and held the majority of the colony's early wealth. However, in 1914, French authorities allowed the government to provide the Malagasy people with their first representative figure and voice in the political sector, despite much uproar and controversy among the French in Madagascar at the time.\n\nFrench economic aspirations at the time were strained by external and internal forces, particularly the fluctuating economy. The French struggled in many labor sectors. The labor demands from the Malagasy conflicted with labor requirements for Europeans. In 1926, the French were granted access to a government scheme, SMOTIG, a public works scheme.\n\nAnother setback to French settlers at the time was the climate. French farmers particularly faced the brunt of this. Several cyclones destroyed crops, placing affected French farmers in much financial trouble. \n\nDuring the depression of the 1930s, the colonial administration favored coffee over cash crops. From 1932, European farmers had access to 21 Agricultural Credit associations containing several thousand members.\n\nIn 1947 and 1948, the French colonial administration came under siege from the Democratic Movement for Malasy Reform (MDRM), as rebel bands attacked French colonial administration buildings and properties. This developed into a war, killing 550 French people. Several thousand of the French people in Madagascar at the time emigrated to France fear of their safety. \n\nThroughout the 1950s and early 1960s during Madagascar's transition to an independent nation, the majority of the French population emigrated, primarily to France, as increased oppression weighed down heavily on the French population at the time. \nIn the early 1970s, no more than 105,000 French people remained in Madagascar. This number levelled off and now the French population in Madagascar numbers approximately 124,000, of which 18,000 are French born.\n\n87% of the French population in Madagascar are Christian adherents. The vast majority of French Christian adherents in Madagascar are Roman Catholic. A small number are Protestant. The remainder of French people residing in Madagascar are mostly non-religious, but a small minority are Jews.\n\nThe majority of the French population in Madagascar speak French as their first language. However, some also speak various local languages, such as Malagasy, or dialects such as Plateau Malagasy and Betsimisaraka Malagasy. \n\nPreschool (\"maternelle\") through senior high school (\"lycée\"):\n\nPreschool (\"maternelle\") through junior high school (\"collège\"):\n\nJunior high school (\"collège\"):\n\nPreschool (\"maternelle\") through primary school (\"primaire\"): \n\nFormer schools:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15513870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15513870", "title": "Hajjam", "text": "Hajjam\n\nHajjam, alternately pronounced and spelled as Hajaam or Hajam, are an ethnic group found in North India and Pakistan. In Pakistan, they are settled in Sindh and Punjab provinces. The word Hajaam is derived from the Urdu word \"Hajaamat\" which in Urdu means barber and hairdresser. They are also known as the Khalifa and in Uttar Pradesh as the Salamani.\n\nMost Hajjams are Muslims. They are considered an economically backward community in India, concentrated in North India. They are also found in the provinces of Sindh and Punjab in Pakistan.In addition they are also found in Gujrat (Imran Jamal)\n\nTheir traditional occupation has been that of a barber and hairdresser. The word \"Hajaam\" is derived from the Urdu word \"Hajaam\" (barber), itself coming from the Arabic word hijama. Most Hajjams are Sunni Muslims, although there is a small minority, particularly in the Awadh region who are Shia. They claim descent from the Prophet Soloman or Sulaiman, and often call themselves Salmani.\n\nThe Hajjam have largely been dependent in their labour and services, although some have now acquired agricultural land and engage in settled agriculture, besides being barbers occupationally. Many have also taken to education or are petty businessmen. The community now considers itself of Shaikh status. This transformation in their social status has also seen in the dropping of the word Hajam, and they now self-identify as Salmani. They are found mainly in the states of Uttar Pradesh and Bihar. The Hajjam community consists of a number of clans, known as \"biradaris\". Traditionally, marriages occur within the biradri. Their main biradaris are Behlim and Deswal Khalifa of Muzaffarnagar District, Turkiya of Rohilkhand, the Shaikh Salmani, Turkiya and Pirzada in Awadh.\n\nEach of their settlement contains a community has a community council, which acts as an instrument of social control. This community council usually impose fines for the offence of disrespecting traditional norms, and also resolves any petty disputes within the community. The community are Sunni Hanafi Muslims, and are considered fairly orthodox. They are also an endogomous community, preferring to marry among themselves. Cross - cousin marriages are preferred.\n\nIn Bihar, the Hajjam are generally known as Khalifas, and they speak the Maithili dialect of Hindi. Most educated Hajjam also speak Urdu. They are found throughout Bihar, and are still engaged in their occupation. However, many Khalifa in Jharkhand are now farmers. The community has a biradari panchayat, which deals with intra community disputes as well as a representative to the state. Many have also emigrated to Mumbai and Kolkata, where they are employed as day labourers.\n\nIn Pakistan, the Hajjam are found mainly in the Punjab province. The Muslim Hajjam have three sub-divisions, the Bahalim, Chauhan and Kharal. The first claims descent from Yemeni Arabs, the other two were originally Muslim Rajputs. They are also other sub-groups, such as the Banbheru, Ghaghrel and Turkman. In addition, many Hajjam claim to have been of Bhatti, Khokhar, Awan and origin, who due to circumstances, have taken up the occupation of being barbers. Many Hajjam from Uttar Pradesh in India migrated to Pakistan after independence in 1947 and mainly settled in Karachi.\n\nThey maintain a manual of their art, known as the \"Kisbatnama\". In this it is related that God first ordered Archangel Gabriel to shave Adam. Thus Adam learnt the art of shaving, and handed down the art to Sulemain Paras, or the Prophet Soloman.\n\n"}
{"id": "21352491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21352491", "title": "Hannes Vanaküla", "text": "Hannes Vanaküla\n\nHannes Vanaküla, also known as Tokroda (born 23 November 1966 in Tallinn), is an Estonian mage. In media he has been called a charlatan and a cult leader.\n\nIn 2004, Vanaküla claimed to have transported \"energy pillars\", supposedly mystical structures helpful of magical work, from throughout the world to Estonia, supposedly their original and rightful positions. These claims, as well as the controversy over reality and transportability of those energy pillars between Vanaküla and Vormsi Enn, another esoteric practitioner, were reported in various media. Reportedly, the procedure involved Vanaküla and 21 followers entering trance for \"several days\" and \"identifying with energy pillars throughout the world\". The original locations were reported as Egypt, Tibet, United States and Lapland.\n\nIn 2008, Vanaküla and two of his followers participated in \"Selgeltnägijate tuleproov\" (), a TV show formulated as a contest between magic practitioners and based on the format of America's Psychic Challenge. His followers were noted for applying unusual items, such as mace and bucket, for divination.\n\nShortly after the TV show series began, Vanaküla and his two followers from the show agreed to take on the skeptik.ee 10 000 EEK challenge in a test of their telepathical powers. The agreed-on protocol involved a \"transmitter\" being shown various household items randomly drawn from a duffel bag whose content had not been revealed to participants before the experiment, and asking the \"recipients\" – the rôle of Vanaküla and his followers – to guess the items. The results were to be considered positive if any of the three participants would have guessed correctly at least three items out of six \"transmissions\".\n\nThe experiment's results were considered negative, as all three participants guessed correctly zero items out of six \"transmissions\".\n\nOn 28 January 2009, ETV's \"Pealtnägija\" (English: \"Witness\", an Estonian popular documentary series similar to Canada's \"Witness\") ran a segment reporting on activities of Vanaküla and his followers, sometimes referred to as tokronauts, spurring media interest in Vanaküla and his followers. Reportedly, most of the followers consider themselves gods and Vanaküla a god of light, Vanaküla himself explaining in the interview to Pealtnägija that he believes that every creative human being is a god. According to cited and interviewed sources, Vanaküla's followers are encouraged to think of outsiders as \"people of lower quality\" and to withdraw from them; on the other hand, Vanaküla himself is considered a \"person of the highest quality\", which gives him the power to \"repair\" women through sex.\n\nReportedly, the tokronauts have repeatedly attempted to kill various people through \"spiritual means\". A particular target of such an assassination attempt – admitted by Vanaküla in the interview by \"Pealtnägija\" but dismissed as a simple experiment by a single follower – was Condoleezza Rice. When a journalist of delfi.ee asked Harrys Puusepp, the spokesman of Estonia's Northern Police District whether such an admission can lead to criminal investigation into attempted murder or conspiracy to commit murder, Puusepp responded by asking if the journalist was sober, then stated that such an investigation would be contrary to sanity.\n\nThe resulting media exposure led to Vanaküla's firing from his long-term position as a leather dyer.\n\nVanaküla has ascribed \"Pealtnägija\"'s interest in the affair to a conspiracy involving Christians, Freemasons, and the Estonian party of Union of Pro Patria and Res Publica.\n\nOn 18 February 2009, nine members of Riigikogu from the opposition party Keskerakond made a formal inquiry to Estonian Minister of Internal Affairs Jüri Pihl regarding the activities of Vanaküla's sect, asking whether this sect – which they characterised as an 'extremist group' – and others like it are being investigated by the Estonian police and how such activities are regulated under Estonian law.\n\nIn 2007, Vanaküla self-published a book \"Maagia alustalad. Kakskümmend ülekandeliini\" (). His publicity stunts, such as advertising his book, caused some media interest.\n\nThe book has been translated to English as \"The Basics of Magic. The Twenty Energy Transfer Channels\" (), printed by Noria Books.\nAlthough Noria Books has undertaken the printing, the book is a self-publication, fully paid for by Vanaküla himself.\n\n"}
{"id": "28842302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28842302", "title": "Hazaris", "text": "Hazaris\n\nHazari is one of the castes or social groups in the Indian state of Andhra Pradesh, predominantly present in areas Warangal, Karimnagar, Hyderabad and Nizambad. Hazaris regard Telugu as their mother tongue.\n\nThe earliest occurrence of 'Hazaris' in inscriptions dates between 11th and 13th Centuries during the reign of Kakatiyas.\n"}
{"id": "168176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=168176", "title": "Hookah", "text": "Hookah\n\nA hookah (from Hindustani: , , IPA: ; also see other names), also known as the ḡalyān (Persian: قلیان), is a single- or multi-stemmed instrument for vaporizing and smoking flavored tobacco (often \"Mu‘assel\"), or sometimes cannabis or opium, whose vapor or smoke is passed through a water basin—often glass-based—before inhalation.\n\nHealth risks of smoking through a hookah include exposure to toxic chemicals that are not filtered out by the water and risk of infectious disease when hookahs are shared.\n\nThere are two theories regarding the origin of the hookah. The first is that following the introduction of tobacco to medieval India by the Jesuits, the waterpipe was invented by one of Akbar's physicians, Abu’l-Fath Gilani, in the Indian city of Fatehpur Sikri during Mughal India; the hookah spread from India to the Near East, where the mechanism was modified. Alternatively, it could originate in the Safavid dynasty of Persia, from where it eventually spread to the east into the Indian subcontinent during that time.\n\nThe word hookah is a derivative of \"huqqa\", a Hindustani term. Outside its native region, hookah smoking has gained popularity throughout the world, especially among younger people, largely due to immigrants from the Levant, where it is especially popular.\n\nIn the Indian subcontinent, the word \"huqqa\" is used (Devanagari: हुक़्क़ा, Eastern Nagari: হুক্কা, Nastaleeq: حقّہ); this word is the origin of the English word \"hookah\". The widespread use of the Indian word \"hookah\" in the English language is a result of the colonization in British India (1858–1947), when large numbers of expatriate Britons first sampled the water pipe. William Hickey, shortly after arriving in Kolkata, India, in 1775, wrote in his \"Memoirs\":\n\n\"Argilah\" or \"Argileh\" (, sometimes pronounced \"Argilee\") is the name most commonly used in Lebanon, Syria, Palestine, Jordan, Azerbaijan, Uzbekistan, Kuwait and Iraq, while \"Nargilah\" () is the name most commonly used in Israel. It derives from \"nārghile\" (), which in turn comes from the Sanskrit word \"nārikela\" (), meaning coconut, suggesting that early hookahs were hewn from coconut shells. In Persian, it is known as \"qalyān\" ().\n\nIn Croatia, Serbia, Bosnia and Herzegovina, the Republic of Macedonia, Greece, Turkey and Bulgaria, \"na[r]gile\" (на[р]гиле) is used to refer to the pipe, while \"šiša\" (шиша) refers to the tobacco that is smoked in it. The pipes there often have one or two mouth pieces. The flavored tobacco, created by marinating cuts of tobacco in a multitude of flavored molasses, is placed above the water and covered by pierced foil with hot coals placed on top, and the smoke is drawn through cold water to cool and filter it. In Albania, the hookah is called \"lula\" or \"lulava\". In Romania, it is called \"narghilea\".\n\n\"Narguile\" is the common word in Spain used to refer to the pipe, although \"cachimba\" is also used, along with \"shisha\" by Moroccan immigrants in Spain.\n\n\"Shisha\" or \"sheesha\" (), from the Persian word \"shīshe\" (), meaning glass, is the common term for the hookah in Egypt, Sudan and countries of the Arab Peninsula (including Kuwait, Bahrain, Qatar, Oman, UAE, Yemen and Saudi Arabia), and in Algeria, Morocco, Tunisia and Somalia. In Yemen, the term \"mada'a\" () is also used, but for pipes using pure tobacco.\n\nIn Persia, hookah is called \"Qalyān\" (). Persian qalyan is included in the earliest European compendium on tobacco, the \"tobacolgia\" written by Johan Neander and published in Dutch in 1622. It seems that over time water pipes acquired a Persian connotation as in eighteenth-century Egypt the most fashionable pipes were called \"Karim Khan\" after the Persian ruler of the day. This is also the name used in Ukraine, Russia and Belarus.\n\nIn Uzbekistan and Afghanistan, a hookah is called \"chillim\".\n\nIn Kashmir, hookah is called \"Jajeer\".\n\nIn Maldives, hookah is called \"Guduguda\".\n\nIn Switzerland, hookah is called \"Shisha\".\n\nIn the Philippines, hookah is called \"Hitboo\" and normally used in smoking flavored marijuana.\n\nThe hookah pipe is also known as the \"Marra pipe\" in the UK, especially in the North East, where it is used for recreational purposes.\n\nIn Sindhi, another language of South Asia, it is called \"Huqqo\" ( / ).\n\nIn the Indian city of Fatehpur Sikri, Roman Catholic missionaries of the Society of Jesus arriving from the southern part of the country, introduced tobacco to the Mughal emperor Akbar the Great (1542-1605 AD). Louis Rousselet writes that the physician of Akbar, Hakim Aboul Futteh Ghilani, then invented the hookah in India.\nHowever, a quatrain of Ahlī Shirazi (d. 1535), a Persian poet, refers to the use of the ḡalyān (Falsafī, II, p. 277; Semsār, 1963, p. 15), thus dating its use at least as early as the time of the Shah Ṭahmāsp I. It seems, therefore, that Abu’l-Fath Gilani should be credited with the introduction of the ḡalyān, already in use in Persia, into India. There is, however, no evidence of the existence of the water pipe until the 1560s. Moreover, tobacco is believed to have arrived in India in the 17th century, until then cannabis was smoked in India, so that suggests another substance was probably smoked in Ahlī Shirazi's quatrain, perhaps through some other method.\n\nFollowing the European introduction of tobacco to Persia and India, Hakim Abu’l-Fath Gilani, who came from Gilan, a province in the north of Persia, migrated to Hamarastan. He later became a physician in the Mughal court and raised health concerns after smoking tobacco became popular among Indian noblemen. He subsequently envisaged a system that allowed smoke to be passed through water in order to be 'purified'. Gilani introduced the \"ḡalyān\" after Asad Beg, the ambassador of Bijapur, encouraged Akbar I to take up smoking. Following popularity among noblemen, this new device for smoking soon became a status symbol for the Indian aristocracy and gentry.\n\nInstead of copper, brass, and low quality alloys, manufacturers increasingly use stainless steel and aluminium. Silicone rubber compounds are used for hookah hoses instead of leather and wire. New materials make modern hookahs more durable, eliminate odors while smoking and allow washing without risks of corrosion or bacterial decay. New technologies and modern design trends are changing the appearance of hookahs.\n\nDespite the obvious benefits of modern hookahs, because of high production cost and lack of modern equipment in traditional hookah manufacturing regions, most hookahs are still produced with older technologies.\n\nThe concept of hookah is thought to have originated In India. Once the province of the wealthy, it was tremendously popular especially during Mughal rule. The hookah has since become less popular; however, it is once again garnering the attention of the masses, and cafés and restaurants that offer it as a consumable are popular. The use of hookahs from ancient times in India was not only a custom, but a matter of prestige. Rich and landed classes would smoke hookahs.\n\nTobacco is smoked in hookahs in many villages as per traditional customs. Smoking tobacco-molasses is now becoming popular among the youth in India. There are several chain clubs, bars and coffee shops in India offering a wider variety of mu‘assels, including non-tobacco versions. Hookah was recently banned in Bangalore. However, it can be bought or rented for personal usage or organized parties.\n\nKoyilandy, a small fishing town on the west coast of India, once made and exported hookahs extensively. These are known as Malabar Hookhas or Koyilandy Hookahs. Today these intricate hookahs are difficult to find outside Koyilandy and are becoming difficult even to find in Koyilandy itself.\n\nAs hookah makes resurgence in India, there have been numerous raids and bans recently on hookah smoking, especially in Gujarat.\n\nAlthough it has been traditionally prevalent in rural areas for generations, smoking hookahs has become very popular in the cosmopolitan cities of Pakistan. One can see many cafés in Pakistan offering hookah smoking to its guests. Even lots of households have hookahs for smoking or decoration purposes.\n\nIn Punjab, Pakhtunkhwa, and in northern Balochistan, the topmost part on which coals are placed is called \"chillum\".\n\nIn big cities like Karachi and Lahore, cafes and restaurants offered Hookah and charged per hour. In 2013, it was banned by the Pakistan Supreme court. The cafe owners started offering shisha to minors, which was the major reason for the ban.\n\nThe hookah has been a traditional smoking instrument in Bangladesh, particularly among the old Bengali zamindar gentry. However, flavored shisha was introduced in the early 2000s. Hookah lounges spread quite quickly between 2008–2011 and became popular among young people as well as middle-aged people as a relaxation method. There have been allegations of a government crack-down on hookah bars to prevent illicit drug usage.\n\n\"Hookahs\" (हुक़्क़ा), especially wooden ones, are popular in Nepal. Use of hookahs has been usually considered to symbolize an elite family status in Nepali history. Nowadays, the cities of Kathmandu, Pokhara and Dharan sport special 'hookah bars'. Although hookahs have started becoming popular among younger people and tourists, the overall number of 'hookah-smokers' is likely dwindling owing to the widespread availability of cheaper cigarettes.\n\nIn the Arab world and the Middle East, people smoke waterpipes as part of their culture and traditions. Local names of waterpipe in the Middle East are, argila, čelam/čelīm, ḡalyān or ghalyan, ḥoqqa, nafas, nargile, and shisha.\n\nSocial smoking is done with a single or double hose hookah, and sometimes even triple or quadruple hose hookahs are used at parties or small get-togethers. When the smoker is finished, s/he either places the hose back on the table, signifying that it is available, or hands it from one user to the next, folded back on itself so that the mouthpiece is not pointing at the recipient.\n\nMost cafés in the Middle East offer shishas. Cafés are widespread and are among the chief social gathering places in the Arab world (akin to public houses in Britain).\n\nThe exact date of the first use of ḡalyān in Persia is not known. However, the earliest known literary evidence of the hookah, anywhere, comes in a quatrain by Ahlī Shirazi (d. 1535), a Persian poet, referring to the use of the ḡalyān (Falsafī, II, p. 277; Semsār, 1963, p. 15), thus dating its use at least as early as the time of the Shah Ṭahmāsp I. This suggests, the hookah was already in use in ancient Persia, and it made its way into India soon afterward.[27]\n\nAlthough the Safavid Shah ʿAbbās I strongly condemned tobacco use, towards the end of his reign smoking ḡalyān and čopoq (q.v.) had become common on every level of the society, women included. In schools, both teachers and students had ḡalyāns while lessons continued (Falsafī, II, pp. 278–80). Shah Safi of Persia (r. 1629-42) declared a complete ban on tobacco, but the income received from its use persuaded him to soon revoke the ban. The use of ḡalyāns became so widespread that a group of poor people became professional tinkers of crystal water pipes. During the time of Abbas II of Persia (r. 1642-1666), use of the water pipe had become a national addiction (Chardin, tr., II, p. 899). The shah (king) had his own private ḡalyān servants. Evidently the position of water pipe tender (ḡalyāndār) dates from this time. Also at this time, reservoirs were made of glass, pottery, or a type of gourd. Because of the unsatisfactory quality of indigenous glass, glass reservoirs were sometimes imported from Venice (Chardin, tr., II, p. 892). In the time of Suleiman I of Persia (r. 1694-1722), ḡalyāns became more elaborately embellished as their use increased. The wealthy owned gold and silver pipes. The masses spent more on ḡalyāns than they did on the necessities of life (Tavernier apud Semsār, 1963, p. 16).\n\nAn emissary of Sultan Husayn (r.1722-32) to the court of Louis XV of France, on his way to the royal audience at Versailles, had in his retinue an officer holding his ḡalyān, which he used while his carriage was in motion (Herbette, tr. p. 7; Kasrawī, pp. 211–12; Semsār, 1963, pp. 18–19). We have no record indicating the use of ḡalyān at the court of Nader Shah, although its use seems to have continued uninterrupted. There are portraits of Karim Khan of the Zand dynasty of Iran and Fat′h-Ali Shah Qajar that depict them smoking the ḡalyān.\nIranians have a special tobacco called \"Khansar\" (خانسار, presumably name of the origin city, Khvansar). The charcoals would be put on the Khansar without foil.\n\nSaudi Arabia is in the process of implementing general smoking bans in public places. This includes shishas. Additionally, the city of Riyadh has banned shisha cafes within city limits.\n\nAlthough perceived to be an important cultural feature of Syria (see Smoking in Syria), narghile had declined in popularity during most of the twentieth century and was used mostly by older men. Similar to other Middle Eastern countries, its use increased dramatically during the 1990s, particularly among youth and young adults. As of 2004, prior to the Syrian Civil War, 17% of 18- to 29-year-olds, 10% of 30- to 45-year-olds, and 6% of 46- to 65-year-olds reported using narghile, and use was higher in men than women. More recent data is not available.\n\n\"Nargile\" became part of Turkish culture from the 17th century. Back then, it became prominent in society and was used as a status symbol. \"Nargile\" was such an important Turkish custom that it even sparked a diplomatic crisis between France and the Ottoman Empire. Western Turkey is noted for its traditional pottery production where potters make earthenware objects, including \"nargile\" bowls.\n\nIn Southeast Asia, the hookah, where it is predominantly called shisha, was particularly used within the Arab and Indian communities.\n\nHookah was virtually unknown in Southeast Asia before the latter 20th century, yet the popularity among contemporary younger people is now vastly growing. Southeast Asia's most cosmopolitan cities, Makati, Bangkok, Singapore (now banned), Phnom Penh, Siem Reap, Hanoi and Ho Chi Minh City, now have various bars and clubs that offer hookahs to patrons.\n\nAlthough hookah use has been common for hundreds of years and enjoyed by people of all ages, it has recently started to become a youth peoples' pastime in Asia. Hookahs are most popular with college students, and young adults, who may be underage and thus unable to purchase cigarettes.\n\nIn South Africa, hookah, colloquially known as a \"hubbly bubbly\" or an \"okka pipe\", is popular among the Cape Malay and Indian populations, wherein it is smoked as a social pastime. However, hookah is seeing increasing popularity with South Africans, especially the youth. Bars that additionally provide hookahs are becoming more prominent, although smoking is normally done at home or in public spaces such as beaches and picnic sites.\n\nIn South Africa, the terminology of the various hookah components also differ from other countries. The clay \"head/bowl\" is known as a \"clay pot\". The hoses are called \"pipes\" and the air release valve is known as a \"clutch\".\n\nThe windscreen (which is considered optional and not used by most people) is known as an \"As-jas\", which directly translates from Afrikaans to English as an \"ash-jacket\". Also, making/preparing the \"clay pot\" is commonly referred to as \"racking the hubbly\".\n\nSome scientists point to the marijuana pipe as an African origin of hookah.\n\nDuring the 1960s and 1970s, hookahs were a popular tool for the consumption of various derivations of tobacco, among other things. At parties or small gatherings the hookah hose was passed around with users partaking as they saw fit. Typically, though, open flames were used instead of burning coals.\n\nToday, hookahs are readily available for sale at smoke shops and some gas stations across the United States, along with a variety of tobacco brands and accessories. In addition to private hookah smoking, hookah lounges or bars have opened in cities across the country.\n\nRecently, certain cities, counties, and states have implemented indoor smoking bans. In some jurisdictions, hookah businesses can be exempted from the policies through special permits. Some permits, however, have requirements such as the business earning a certain minimum percentage of their revenue from alcohol or tobacco.\n\nIn cities with indoor smoking bans, hookah bars have been forced to close or switch to tobacco-free mixtures. In many cities though, hookah lounges have been growing in popularity. From the year 2000 to 2004, over 200 new hookah cafés opened for business, most of them targeted at young adults and located near college campuses or cities with large Middle-Eastern communities. This activity continues to gain popularity within the post-secondary student demographic. Hookah use among high school students rose from 4.1% to 9.4% from 2011 to 2014 while cigarette smoking decreased from 15.8% to 9.2% during this same time period, according to the US CDC. According to a 2011 study, 40.3 percent of college and university students surveyed had smoked tobacco from a hookah. As of 8 July 2013, at least 1,178 college or university campuses in the U.S. have adopted 100% smokefree campus policies that attempt to eliminate smoking in indoor and outdoor areas across the entire campus, including residences.\n\nExcluding grommets, a hookah consists of a number of components, four of which are essential for its operation.\n\nAlso known as the head of the hookah, the bowl is a container, usually made out of clay, marble, or glass that holds the coal and tobacco during the smoking session. The bowl is loaded with tobacco then covered by a screen or perforated aluminum foil. Lit coals are then placed on top, which allows the tobacco to heat to the proper temperature. \n\nThere is also a variation of the head that employs a fruit rather than the traditional clay bowl. The fruit is hollowed out and perforated in order to achieve the same shape and system a clay bowl has, then it is loaded and used in the same manner.\n\nBowls have evolved in recent years to incorporate new designs that keep juices in the tobacco from running down the stem. The Tangiers Phunnel Bowl and Sahara Smoke Vortex Bowl are two examples of such bowls.\n\nA Hookah Cover windscreen is a cover that sits over the bowl area, with some form of air holes. This prevents wind from increasing the burn rate and temperature of the coal, and prevents ash and burning embers from being blown onto the surrounding environment. This may also offer some limited protection from fire as it may prevent the coal from being ejected if the hookah is bumped.\n\nThe hose (one or more) is a slender flexible tube that allows the smoke to be drawn for a distance, cooling down before inhalation. The end is typically fitted with a metal, wooden, or plastic mouthpiece of different shapes, size, color or material type. Today, the hose proper is typically made from vinyl which allows it to be easily cleaned. According to J. S. Gamble in \"A Manual of Indian Timbers\" in 1902 (p. 668), the bark of the white Himalayan birch \"Betula utilis ssp. jacquemontii\" was used to make early hookah tubes.\n\nMany hookahs are equipped with a purge valve connected to the airspace in the water jar to purge stale smoke that has been sitting unused in the jar for too long. This one-way valve is typically a simple ball bearing sitting over a port that seals the port by gravity alone and will open if positive pressure is created by blowing into the hose. The bearing is held captive with a screw-on cover. The cover should be opened and the bearing and seat cleaned of residue and corrosion regularly to ensure proper sealing.\n\nThe body of the hookah sits on top of the water base, or sometimes referred to as vase. The downstem hangs down below the level of the water in the jar. Smoke passes through the body and out the downstem where it bubbles through the water. This cools and humidifies the smoke. Liquids such as fruit juice may be added to the water or used in substitution. Pieces of fruit, mint leaves, and crushed ice may be added.\n\nA plate or ashtray sits just below the bowl to catch ashes falling off the coals.\n\nGrommets in a hookah are usually placed between the bowl and the body, between the body's gasket and the water jar, and between the body and the hose. The grommets, although not essential (the use of paper or tape has become common), will help to seal the joints between the parts, therefore decreasing the amount of air coming in and maximizing the smoke breathed in.\n\nA piece attached to the bottom of the stem, usually made of plastic and in a grid pattern, to make a smoother smoke and a subdued noise. By breaking the naturally larger bubbles coming up the water from the pipe into smaller bubbles, it lowers the amount of suction or \"pull\" needed to continue bringing smoke to the chamber. This also cools the smoke down more efficiently. It is used as a luxury item used for a better smoking experience and is not a required component.\n\nTobacco or Mu‘assel (Arabic: معسل, which means \"honeyed\"), also sometimes called Shisha in places where it does not refer to the Hookah itself, is a syrupy tobacco mix with molasses and vegetable glycerol as moisturizer and specific flavors added to it. Typical flavors of mu‘assel include apple, grape, guava, lemon, mint, as well as many other fruit based mixes. Non-tobacco-based mu'assel is also available in certain areas where tobacco smoking is not allowed.\n\nCharcoal is the source of energy to produce heat that will be transferred to the tobacco inside the bowl. Since the glycerol is used to moisturize the tobacco, then to produce smoke, the charcoal should be able to generate heat above the boiling point of glycerol that is 290 °C. Therefore, charcoal for hookah smoking must be hard, high density, easy to ignite, and burn longer with persistent heat.\n\nThe jar at the bottom of the hookah is filled with water sufficient to submerge a few centimeters of the body tube, which is sealed tightly to it. Deeper water will only increase the inhalation force needed to use it. Tobacco or tobacco-free molasses are placed inside the bowl at the top of the hookah. Often the bowl is covered with perforated tin foil or a metal screen and coal placed on top. The foil or screen separates the coal and the tobacco, which reduces inhalation of coal ash from the smoke and reduces the temperature the tobacco is exposed to, in order to prevent burning the tobacco directly.\n\nWhen one inhales through the hose, air is pulled through the charcoal and into the bowl holding the tobacco. The hot air, heated by the charcoal vaporizes the tobacco without burning it. The vapor is passed down through the body tube that extends into the water in the jar. It bubbles up through the water, losing heat, and fills the top part of the jar, to which the hose is attached. When a smoker inhales from the hose, smoke passes into the lungs, and the change in pressure in the jar pulls more air through the charcoal, continuing the process.\n\nIf the hookah has been lit and smoked but has not been inhaled for an extended period, the smoke inside the water jar may be regarded as \"stale\" and undesirable. Stale smoke may be exhausted through the purge valve, if present. This one-way valve is opened by the positive pressure created from gently blowing into the hose. It will not function on a multiple-hose hookah unless all other hoses are plugged. Sometimes one-way valves are put in the hose sockets to avoid the need to manually plug hoses.\n\nWhen people share a hookah, there is a risk of spreading infections diseases such as oral herpes, tuberculosis, hepatitis, influenza, and \"H. pylori\". Using personal disposable mouthpieces may reduce this risk but does not eliminate it.\n\nHookah smoke contains multiple toxic chemicals. Water does not filter out many of these chemicals. Hookah smoke contains toxic chemicals that come from the burning of the charcoal, tobacco, and flavorings. Hookah smokers inhale many chemicals that can cause cancer, heart disease, lung disease, and other health problems. These chemicals include tobacco-specific nitrosamines, polycyclic aromatic hydrocarbons (PAHs; e.g., benzo[a]pyrene and anthracene), volatile aldehydes (e.g. formaldehyde, acetaldehyde, acrolein), benzene, nitric oxide, heavy metals (arsenic, chromium, lead), and carbon monoxide (CO). Hookah smoking increases the amount of carbon monoxide (CO) in a person's body to eight times their normal level. Compared to smoking one cigarette, a single hookah session exposes users to more carbon monoxide and PAHs, similar levels of nicotine, and lower levels of tobacco-specific nitrosamines. Because of inhaling these chemicals, hookah smokers are at increased risk of many of the same health problems as cigarette smokers.\n\nCarbon monoxide (CO) in hookah smoke binds to hemoglobin in the blood to form carboxyhemoglobin, which reduces the amount of oxygen that can be transported to organs including the brain. There are several case reports in the medical literature of hookah smokers needing treatment in hospital emergency rooms for symptoms of CO poisoning including headache, nausea, lethargy, and fainting. This is sometimes called “hookah sickness.” Hookah smoking can damage the cardiovascular system in several ways. Its use elevates heart rate and blood pressure. It also impairs baroreflex control (which helps to control blood pressure) and cardiac autonomic functioning (which has many purposes, including control of heart rate) Hookah use also acutely harms vascular functioning, increases inflammation, and harms lung function and reduces the ability to exercise.\n\nCurrent evidence indicates hookah may cause numerous health problems. Hookah smoking appears to increase the risk of several cancers (lung, esophageal, and gastric), pulmonary diseases (impaired pulmonary function, chronic bronchitis, and emphysema), coronary artery disease, periodontal disease, obstetrical and perinatal problems (low birth weight and pulmonary problems at birth), larynx and voice changes, and osteoporosis. Many of the studies to date have methodological limitations, such as not measuring hookah use in a standardized way. Larger, high quality studies are needed to learn more about the long-term health effects of hookah use and of exposure to hookah smoke.\n\nSecond-hand smoke from hookahs contains significant amounts of carbon monoxide, aldehydes, PAHs, ultrafine particles, and respirable particulate matter (particles small enough to enter the lungs). Study have found that concentrations of particulate matter in the air of hookah bars were in the unhealthy to hazardous range according to Environmental Protection Agency standards. The air in hookah bars also contains significant amounts of toxic chemicals including: aromatic hydrocarbons, carbon monoxide, nicotine, and trace metals. The concentrations in the air of all these toxic substances are greater than for cigarettes (for the same number of smokers per hour). During a typical one-hour hookah session, a user expels into the air 2-10 times the amount of cancer-causing chemicals and other harmful chemicals compared to a cigarette smoker. No studies have examined the long-term health effects of exposure to secondhand hookah smoke, but short term effects may include experience respiratory symptoms such as wheezing, nasal congestion, and chronic cough. Hookah bar employees, who often are exposed to toxic air for extended amounts of time, may be at especially high risk of health problems from secondhand smoke.\n\nHookah smokers inhale nicotine, which is an addictive chemical. A typical hookah smoking session delivers 1.7 times the nicotine dose of one cigarette and the nicotine absorption rate in daily waterpipe users is equivalent to smoking 10 cigarettes per day. Many hookah smokers, especially frequent users, have urges to smoke and show other withdrawal symptoms after not smoking for some time, and it can be difficult to quit. These signs and symptoms of addiction and dependence are very similar to the signs of cigarette addiction. People who become addicted to hookah may be more likely to smoke alone. Hookah smokers who are addicted may find it easier to quit if they have help from a quit-smoking counseling program.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21671963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21671963", "title": "Human trafficking in Kuwait", "text": "Human trafficking in Kuwait\n\nKuwait is a destination and transit country for men and women for forced labor and commercial sexual exploitation. Men and women migrate willingly from Bangladesh, India, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, Nepal, Indonesia, and the Philippines to work as domestic servants or low-skilled laborers. Upon arrival, however, some are subsequently subjected to conditions of forced labor, such as restrictions on movement, unlawful withholding of passports, non-payment of wages, threats, and physical or sexual abuse. In addition, some women are forced into commercial sexual exploitation; for example, some female domestic workers are forced into prostitution after running away from abusive employers or after being deceived with promises of jobs in different sectors. Kuwait is also a transit country for South and East Asian workers recruited by Kuwaiti labor recruitment agencies for low-skilled work in Iraq; some of these workers are deceived as to the true location and nature of this work, while others willingly transit to Iraq through Kuwait, but subsequently endure conditions of involuntary servitude in Iraq. Some Kuwaiti nationals reportedly travel to destinations including Morocco, Egypt, Afghanistan, Pakistan, India, and Bangladesh to engage in commercial sex acts.\n\nThe Government of Kuwait does not fully comply with the minimum standards for the elimination of trafficking, and is not making significant efforts to do so. U.S. State Department's Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons placed the country in \"Tier 2 Watchlist\" in 2017.\n\nThe Government of Kuwait demonstrated no progress in punishing trafficking offenses this year. Kuwait does not explicitly prohibit trafficking in persons, though it prohibits transnational slavery through Article 185 of its criminal code, with a prescribed penalty of five years’ imprisonment and a fine. Article 201 of Kuwait’s criminal code prohibits forced prostitution; prescribed penalties include imprisonment of up to five years or a fine for the forced prostitution of adults, and seven years’ imprisonment and a fine prescribed for the forced prostitution of minors under 18 years of age. This year, Kuwait passed an administrative ban on withholding passports, but did not report any efforts to enforce it. Despite the availability of these statutes, the government did not report any prosecutions, convictions, or punishments of traffickers for forced labor, including fraudulent recruiters and abusive employers. \n\nRather than assign stringent prison penalties for trafficking, Kuwaiti law enforcement efforts generally focus on administrative measures such as shutting down recruitment firms, issuing orders for employers to return withheld passports, or requiring employers pay back-wages. The government also did not provide evidence of prosecuting, convicting, or punishing traffickers for commercial sexual exploitation. In addition, credible reports indicate that government officials are complicit in unlawfully selling worker visas to labor recruiters, thereby facilitating trafficking. The government reported no prosecutions, convictions, or punishments for complicity in trafficking. The government did not provide specialized training to law enforcement officers, lawyers, or judges on investigating or prosecuting trafficking.\n\nDuring the year, Kuwait made uneven efforts to improve protection for victims of trafficking. In September, the government opened a temporary shelter for victims of forced labor. The shelter has a maximum capacity of 40 women and provides medical, psychological, and legal services. It is unknown how many victims this shelter has accommodated to date. Credible sources report, however, that the shelter turns away victims who want to file complaints of trafficking or other abuses against their employers. The government continues to lack formal procedures for the systematic identification and protection of trafficking victims among vulnerable populations, such as foreign workers arrested without proper identity documents and women arrested for prostitution. As such, victims of trafficking are sometimes detained or deported for acts committed as a result of being trafficked, such as running away from their sponsors in violation of immigration laws and prostitution. Victims who are deported are not offered legal alternatives to their removal to countries in which they may face retribution. The police do not encourage victims to assist in criminal investigations of their traffickers. Government authorities often encourage victims to settle complaints against their employers out of court. In many cases, police do not take the complaints of trafficking victims seriously, and may also treat them as criminals for leaving their sponsors.\n\nKuwait made no reported efforts to prevent trafficking in persons this year. The government did not produce any public awareness campaigns during the reporting period to warn employers and workers about the risks of trafficking. Kuwait also did not launch a public awareness campaign targeting citizens traveling to known child sex tourism destinations abroad. The government did not make any discernible efforts to reduce the demand for commercial sex acts.\n"}
{"id": "57273456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57273456", "title": "Jailbirds of Kerensky", "text": "Jailbirds of Kerensky\n\nJailbirds of Kerensky (, Ptentsy Kerenskogo) was informal term of Russian Revolution for people who were released from Russian jails on amnesty that was announced by Russian Minister of Justice Alexander Kerensky in March of 1917. According to some historians, among politically amnestied there were about 90,000 convicts who were released by three amnesties of the 1917 Russian Provisional Government and since March of 1917 thousands of inveterate criminals obtained freedom.\n\nWhen Kerensky was appointed a minister of Justice in the newly established Russian Provisional Government, on Russian Ministry of Justice abolished special civil courts, Okhranka (Russian secret police), and the Russian Gendarmerie. On the Kerensky's ministry issued an order of political amnesty. Following that on there was announced military amnesty and after three days the Ministry of Justice issued a ruling \"On the relief of the fate of persons who have committed criminal offenses\" ().\n\nFollowing the amnesty, on 22 March 1917 bureau of the Central Committee of the Russian Social Democratic Labour Party (bolsheviks) adopted resolution about the Provisional Government which stated that the main task of Soviets is \"universal arming of people and, in particular, immediate creation of the workers' Red Guards throughout the country\". On 26 March 1917 this decision was published in newspaper \"Pravda\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54679928", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54679928", "title": "Johanna Goldschmidt", "text": "Johanna Goldschmidt\n\nJohanna Goldschmidt (born Johanna Schwabe on 11 December 1807 in Bremerlehe, died 10 October 1884 in Hamburg) was a German social activist, writer and philanthropist. She played an important role in supporting Friedrich Fröbel and in spreading the concept of the \"kindergarten\".\n\nJohanna Schwabe was born on 11 December 1807 in Bremerlehe to Jewish merchant Marcus Hertz Schwabe and Henriette née Lazarus. In 1812, the wealthy Schwabe family moved to Hamburg. Her father had been one of the founders of the Hamburg Reform Temple in 1817. Johanna was a high-spirited girl, who spoke several languages, played the piano, the violin and the harp, and could also sing very well. Her talents were supported by her teachers.\n\nAt the age of 20 Johanna Schwabe married the merchant Moritz David Goldschmidt. The couple had eight children. The eldest son had been Otto Goldschmidt, a composer, conductor and pianist. The \"Swedish Nightingale\", soprano Jenny Lind became her daughter-in-law. The botanist Otto Warburg had been her grandson.\n\nBy the 1840s, women such as Johanna Goldschmidt of Hamburg ventured outside the Jewish community to join forces with like-minded Christian women to promote religious tolerance and new approaches to education. In 1847 she wrote her first book, \"Rebekka and Amalia\", written as a series of letters between a young Jew, Rebekka, and a Christian aristocrat named Amalia. \"The general topic of the work was the problem of Jewish conversion and assimilation, but in one of its chapters, Goldschmidt focused on a plan for an organization in which rich women would help poorer women to improve themselves by means of lectures and instruction.\"\n\nIn 1848, Goldschmidt became co-founder of the \"Frauenverein zur Bekämpfung und Ausgleichung religiöser Vorurteile\", a women's association to combat and reduce religious prejudice. Since 1848, Johanna Goldschmidt was in contact with Friedrich Fröbel and invited him in November 1849 to Hamburg. This led to the foundation of the \"Hochschule für das weibliche Geschlecht\" (1850–1852), the first institution of higher education for women in Germany. In this project she worked closely with liberal Christian women. 22 kindergarten teachers had been educated and the first kindergarten for 70 children had been opened in Hamburg. Her disputation \"Zur Sache Fröbels\", published in 1853, caused a sensation. She defended his pedagogical model against unjust allegations. She also defended the idea of higher education for women to opponents like Karl Gutzkow or against Prussian administration which had been established in Altona in 1867.\n\nIn 1860, Goldschmidt founded the \"Hamburger-Fröbel-Verein\". A separate kindergarten was added to a seminary as an exercise center. The seminary is still active as \"Staatliche Fachschule für Sozialpädagogik (Fröbelseminar)\". In total, she opened nine kindergartens. Her play, \"Blicke in die Familie\" (A Look at the Family), was published in 1860 and opened in Hamburg in 1864.\n\nJohanna Goldschmidt stood in contact with Clara Schumann, Johannes Brahms and the educator Adolph Diesterweg.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1961267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1961267", "title": "John Abt", "text": "John Abt\n\nJohn Jacob Abt (May 1, 1904 – August 10, 1991) was an American lawyer and politician. He spent most of his career as chief counsel to the Communist Party USA (CPUSA).\n\nAbt was born on May 1, 1904 in Chicago, Illinois. He was a graduate of the University of Chicago, and from its law school.\n\nAbt practiced real estate and corporate law in Chicago from 1927 to 1933.\n\nAbt was the Chief of Litigation, Agricultural Adjustment Administration from 1933 to 1935, assistant general counsel of the Works Progress Administration in 1935 (where Lee Pressman was also working), chief counsel to Senator Robert La Follette, Jr.'s Committee from 1936 to 1937 and special assistant to the United States Attorney General, 1937 and 1938.\n\nFrom 1938 to 1948, he worked at chief counsel of the Amalgamated Clothing Workers Union under Sidney Hillman, who hired him. By this time, the ACW had affiliated with the Congress of Industrial Organizations (CIO).\nIn his memoir, Abt claimed that leaders of the Communist Party of the USA had inspired the idea of the CIO-PAC:\n\nIn 1943, Gene Dennis came to me and Lee Pressman to first raise the idea of a political action committee to organize labor support for Roosevelt in the approaching 1944 election. Pressman approached Murray with the idea, as I did with Hillman. Both men seized upon the proposal with great enthusiasm.\n\nAbt and Pressman became the CIO-PAC's co-counsels. (Thus, in 1943, as American spy Elizabeth Bentley resurrected the Ware Group [of which Abt had been a member], Abt could not risk involvement with her or the group. Instead, the group reformed without him under Victor Perlo as the Perlo Group.)\n\nBy January 1946, he was also working as general counsel for the Congress of Industrial Organizations (CIO) and traveled to Russia with a CIO delegation, which included Lee Pressman. (The CIO had long-term support from communists; in 1947, CIO leaders like Walter Reuther pushed out communist elements and again in 1949 after the CIO's merger with the American Federation of Labor [AFL] to form the AFL-CIO.)\n\nIn September 1946, Abt appeared on the New York state ticket of American Labor Party candidates: Benjamin Fielding for Lieutenant Governor, Harry J. Chapman for State Controller, Joseph Lucchi for Attorney General, John T. Loughran for Chief Judge of the Court of Appeals, and John Abt for Associate Judge of the Court of Appeals.\n\nIn October 1946, he (as CIO general counsel) joined other \"liberal and progressive groups\" in forming the new Progressive Party.\n\nIn February 1948, Abt left the Amalgamated and Pressman left the CIO to go work for the Progressive Party to support its presidential candidate, former Vice President Henry A. Wallace. At the time, the \"Washington Post\" dubbed Abt, Lee Pressman, and Calvin Benham \"Beanie\" Baldwin (C. B. Baldwin) as \"influential insiders\" and \"stage managers\" in the Wallace campaign. He also supported the candidacy in New York of Vito Marcantonio, a leader of the American Labor Party.\n\nFrom 1951 to 1953, Abt joined Vito Marcantonio and Joseph Forer in defending the CPUSA on a charge from the McCarran Act.\n\nIn January 1955 Abt defended Claude Lightfoot in Chicago, an African-American Communist on trial under the 1940 Smith Act for belonging to a group that advocates the overthrow of the US government. This trial marked the first time the government attempted to convict an individual solely as a member of a group conspiring against the nation, rather than for individual actions. Although Abt's short and simple defense did not succeed at this trial, Lightfoot's conviction was ultimately overturned by the US Supreme Court in 1964.\n\nIn 1960, Abt again defended the CPUSA before the U.S. Supreme Court on the constitutionality of the McCarran Act. In 1961, however, the Court sustained the section of the act requiring Communist-action organizations to register with the Government by a vote of five to four.\n\nDuring Lee Harvey Oswald's interrogation by the Dallas Police on the evening of 22 November 1963, pending his arraignment for the assassination of President John F. Kennedy, he requested the services of Mr. Abt:\n\nI want that attorney in New York, Mr. Abt. I don't know him personally but I know about a case that he handled some years ago, where he represented the people who had violated the Smith Act, [which made it illegal to teach or advocate the violent overthrow of the U.S. government] ... I don't know him personally, but that is the attorney I want. ... If I can't get him, then I may get the American Civil Liberties Union to send me an attorney.\n\nHowever, Abt and his wife had left New York City that day for a weekend at their cabin in Connecticut. He did not learn of Oswald's request until the following day. He told reporters that he had received no request either from Oswald or from anyone on his behalf to represent him, and so was in no position to give a definite answer. He said later that \"if I were requested to represent him, I felt that it would probably be difficult, if not impossible, for me to do so because of my commitments to other clients.\"\n\nIn 1965, the Supreme Court ruled that individuals may invoke their constitutional privilege against self-incrimination and refuse to register with the Government as members of the US Communist Party. Abt considered this decision as his greatest legal victory.\nAbt was one of the first attorneys to represent Angela Davis for her alleged involvement in the 1970 Marin County courthouse incident. Margaret Burnham worked with him and later wrote a foreword to his memoir.\n\nAbt was also a member of the Ware Group, a covert organization of Communist Party operatives within the United States government in the 1930s, which actively aided Soviet intelligence by passing on government information, as well as furnishing assistance to members of the CPUSA. Abt's sister, Marion Bachrach, was also a member of the group. After the group's founder, Harold Ware, was killed in an automobile collision in 1935, Abt married Jessica Smith, Ware's widow.\n\nIn late 1943, Jacob Golos, who headed the CPUSA's secret apparatus, was referred to a spy ring of party members by General Secretary of the party, Earl Browder. This ring had been engaged for some time in espionage for Browder, and held regular clandestine meetings at Abt's apartment. In early 1944, Golos sent Elizabeth Bentley to make contact with the group at Abt's apartment. In attendance was Abt, Victor Perlo, Charles Kramer, Harry Magdoff and Edward Fitzgerald. They discussed paying party dues to Bentley, the various types of information each would be able to deliver, and the type of information other members not in attendance would also be willing to deliver.\n\nIn late 1943, the Federal Bureau of Investigation opened an investigation of Abt. Its surveillance showed frequent meetings in the early months of 1944 between Abt and a man then known as Alexander Stevens, one of the several pseudonyms used by the shadowy J. Peters, a party 'enforcer' who at one time headed the CPUSA's secret apparatus, and was involved in clandestine Soviet intelligence activities in the U.S., until his deportation to Hungary in 1948.\n\nIn 1948, under subpoena before HUAC, Whittaker Chambers named Abt among members of the Ware Group. Abt refused to give testimony.\n\nOn March 14, 1937, Abt married Jessica Smith Ware, widow of Harold Ware; she died in 1983.\n\nLater, he married Vita Barsky.\n\nIn 1984, on his 80th birthday, Abt admitted to being a long-time member of the CPUSA.\n\nOn August 10, 1991, Abt died at the Columbia-Greene Medical Center in Hudson, New York from a stroke. He was 87.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2704763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2704763", "title": "Jê languages", "text": "Jê languages\n\nThe Jê languages (also spelled Gê, Jean, Ye, Gean), or Jê–Kaingang languages, are spoken by the Gê, a group of indigenous peoples in Brazil.\n\nAccording to Ethnologue (which omits Jeikó), the language family is as follows:\n\n\nThe Jê family forms the core of the Macro-Jê family. Kaufman (1990) finds the proposal convincing.\n"}
{"id": "38340525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38340525", "title": "Kurdish rugs", "text": "Kurdish rugs\n\nKurdish rugs () are rugs woven by the Kurdish people in the Middle East, predominantly the larger Kurdistan region including the Eastern part of Turkey near the Taurus Mountains, Iraq, southernmost Caucasus, Soviet Armenia and North-Western Iran. When referring to Kurdish rugs within the rug industry, one is referring to those made within Iranian Kurdistan.\n\nKurdish Rugs are stout and solid in structure, usually made in symmetrical knotting upon a woolen foundation.\n\nKurdish rugs and carpets do use medallion patterns; however, far more popular are the all-over floral, Mina Khani motifs and the \"jaff\" geometric patterns. The beauty of Kurdish designs are enriched by high-chroma blues, greens, saffrons as well as terracotta and burnt orange hues made richer still by the lusturous wool used. \n\nThe traditional Kurdish Rug uses Kurdish symbols. It is possible to read the dreams, wishes and hopes of the rug maker from the sequence of symbols used. It is this signification and communication both individually and grouped into Kurdish rug making. Kurdish people study how meaning is constructed and understood by talking with the rug maker.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58543932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58543932", "title": "List of FBI controversies", "text": "List of FBI controversies\n\nThe following is a list of controversies involving the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI). Throughout its history, the FBI has been the subject of a number of controversial cases, both at home and abroad. \n\nThe FBI has maintained files on numerous people, including celebrities such as Elvis Presley, Frank Sinatra, John Denver, John Lennon, Jane Fonda, Groucho Marx, Charlie Chaplin, the band MC5, Lou Costello, Sonny Bono, Bob Dylan, Michael Jackson, and Mickey Mantle. The files were collected for various reasons. Some of the subjects were investigated for alleged ties to the Communist party (Charlie Chaplin and Groucho Marx), or in connection with antiwar activities during the Vietnam War (John Denver, John Lennon, and Jane Fonda). Numerous celebrity files concern threats or extortion attempts against them (Sonny Bono, John Denver, John Lennon, Elvis Presley, Michael Jackson, Mickey Mantle, Groucho Marx, and Frank Sinatra).\nCOINTELPRO tactics have been alleged to include discrediting targets through psychological warfare, smearing individuals and/or groups using forged documents and by planting false reports in the media, harassment, wrongful imprisonment, and illegal violence. The FBI's stated motivation was \"protecting national security, preventing violence, and maintaining the existing social and political order.\"\n\nFBI records show that 85 percent of COINTELPRO resources targeted groups and individuals that the FBI deemed \"subversive\", including communist and socialist organizations; organizations and individuals associated with the civil rights movement, including Martin Luther King Jr. and others associated with the Southern Christian Leadership Conference, the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People, and the Congress of Racial Equality and other civil rights organizations; black nationalist groups (e.g., Nation of Islam and the Black Panther Party); the American Indian Movement; a broad range of organizations labeled \"New Left\", including Students for a Democratic Society and the Weathermen; almost all groups protesting the Vietnam War, as well as individual student demonstrators with no group affiliation; the National Lawyers Guild; organizations and individuals associated with the women's rights movement; nationalist groups such as those seeking independence for Puerto Rico, United Ireland, and Cuban exile movements including Orlando Bosch's Cuban Power and the Cuban Nationalist Movement. The remaining 15% of COINTELPRO resources were expended to marginalize and subvert white hate groups, including the Ku Klux Klan and the National States' Rights Party.\n\nThe FBI also spied upon and collected information on Puerto Rican independence leader Pedro Albizu Campos and his Nationalist political party in the 1930s. Abizu Campos was convicted three times in connection with deadly attacks on US government officials: in 1937 (Conspiracy to overthrow the government of the United States), in 1950 (attempted murder), and in 1954 (after an armed assault on the US House of Representatives while in session; although not present, Abizu Campos was considered the mastermind). The FBI operation was covert and did not become known until U.S. Congressman Luis Gutierrez had it made public via the Freedom of Information Act in the 1980s.\n\nIn the 2000s, researchers obtained files released by the FBI under the Freedom of Information Act revealing that the San Juan FBI office had coordinated with FBI offices in New York, Chicago and other cities, in a decades-long surveillance of Albizu Campos and Puerto Ricans who had contact or communication with him. The documents available are as recent as 1965.\n\nFrom the 1950s to the 1980s, the governments of many Latin American and Caribbean countries, including Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Cuba, Mexico and others were infiltrated by the FBI. These operations began in World War II as 700 agents were assigned to monitor Nazi activity, but soon expanded to monitoring communist activity in places like Ecuador. \n\nIn one particularly controversial 1965 incident, white civil rights worker Viola Liuzzo was murdered by Ku Klux Klansmen, who gave chase and fired shots into her car after noticing that her passenger was a young black man; one of the Klansmen was Gary Thomas Rowe, an acknowledged FBI informant. The FBI spread rumors that Liuzzo was a member of the Communist Party, a heroin addict, and had abandoned her children to have sexual relationships with African Americans involved in the civil rights movement. FBI records show that J. Edgar Hoover personally communicated these insinuations to President Johnson.\n\nThe U.S. Department of Justice investigation into the fund-raising activities had uncovered evidence that Chinese agents sought to direct contributions from foreign sources to the Democratic National Committee (DNC) before the 1996 presidential campaign. The Chinese embassy in Washington, D.C. was used for coordinating contributions to the DNC.\n\nIn addition to partisan complaints from Republicans, number of FBI agents suggested the investigations into the fund-raising controversies were willfully impeded. FBI agent Ivian Smith wrote a letter to FBI Director Louis Freeh that expressed \"a lack of confidence\" in the Justice Department's attorneys regarding the fund-raising investigation. FBI agent Daniel Wehr told Congress that the first head U.S. attorney in the investigation, Laura Ingersoll, told the agents they should \"not pursue any matter related to solicitation of funds for access to the president. The reason given was, 'That's the way the American political process works.' I was scandalized by that,\" Wehr said. The four FBI agents also said that Ingersoll prevented them from executing search warrants to stop destruction of evidence and micromanaged the case beyond all reason.\n\nFBI agents were also denied the opportunity to ask President Bill Clinton and Vice President Al Gore questions during Justice Department interviews in 1997 and 1998 and were only allowed to take notes.\n\nDuring the period from 1993 to 2011, FBI agents fired their weapons on 289 occasions; FBI internal reviews found the shots justified in all but 5 cases, in none of the 5 cases were people wounded. Samuel Walker, a professor of criminal justice at the University of Nebraska Omaha said the number of shots found to be unjustified was \"suspiciously low.\" In the same time period, the FBI wounded 150 people, 70 of whom died; the FBI found all 150 shootings to be justified. Likewise, during the period from 2011 to the present, all shootings by FBI agents have been found to be justified by internal investigation. In a 2002 case in Maryland, an innocent man was shot, and later paid $1.3 million by the FBI after agents mistook him for a bank robber; the internal investigation found that the shooting was justified, based on the man's actions.\n\nThe FBI has been criticized for its handling of Boston organized crime figure Whitey Bulger. Beginning in 1975, Bulger served as an informant for the FBI. As a result, the Bureau largely ignored his organization in exchange for information about the inner workings of the Italian American Patriarca crime family.\n\nIn December 1994, after being tipped off by his former FBI handler about a pending indictment under the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act, Bulger fled Boston and went into hiding. For 16 years, he remained at large. For 12 of those years, Bulger was prominently listed on the FBI Ten Most Wanted Fugitives list. Beginning in 1997, the New England media exposed criminal actions by federal, state, and local law enforcement officials tied to Bulger. The revelation caused great embarrassment to the FBI. In 2002, Special Agent John J Connolly was convicted of federal racketeering charges for helping Bulger avoid arrest. In 2008, Special Agent Connolly completed his term on the federal charges and was transferred to Florida where he was convicted of helping plan the murder of John B Callahan, a Bulger rival. In 2014, that conviction was overturned on a technicality. Connolly was the agent leading the investigation of Bulger.\n\nIn June 2011, the 81-year-old Bulger was arrested in Santa Monica, California. Bulger was tried on 32 counts of racketeering, money laundering, extortion, and weapons charges; including complicity in 19 murders. In August 2013, the jury found him guilty on 31 counts, and having been involved in 11 murders. Bulger was sentenced to two consecutive life terms plus five years.\n\nOn February 20, 2001, the bureau announced that a special agent, Robert Hanssen (born 1944) had been arrested for spying for the Soviet Union and then Russia from 1979 to 2001. He is serving 15 consecutive life sentences without the possibility of parole at ADX Florence, a federal supermax prison near Florence, Colorado. Hanssen was arrested on February 18, 2001, at Foxstone Park near his home in Vienna, Virginia, and was charged with selling US secrets to the USSR and subsequently Russia for more than US$1.4 million in cash and diamonds over a 22-year period. On July 6, 2001, he pleaded guilty to 15 counts of espionage in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Virginia. His spying activities have been described by the US Department of Justice's Commission for the Review of FBI Security Programs as \"possibly the worst intelligence disaster in U.S. history\".\nIn 2005, fugitive Puerto Rican Nationalist leader Filiberto Ojeda Ríos died in a gun battle with FBI agents that some charged was an assassination. Puerto Rico Governor Aníbal Acevedo Vilá criticized the FBI assault as \"improper\" and \"highly irregular\" and demanded to know why his government was not informed of it. The FBI refused to release information beyond the official press release, citing security and agent privacy issues. The Puerto Rico Justice Department filed suit in federal court against the FBI and the US Attorney General, demanding information crucial to the Commonwealth's own investigation of the incident. The case was dismissed by the U.S Supreme Court. Ojeda Rios' funeral was attended by a long list of dignitaries, including the highest authority of the Roman Catholic Church in Puerto Rico, Archbishop Roberto Octavio González Nieves, ex-Governor Rafael Hernández Colón, and numerous other personalities.\n\nIn the aftermath of his death, the United Nations Special Committee on Decolonization approved a draft resolution urging a \"probe of [the] pro-independence killing, human rights abuses\", after \"Petitioner after petitioner condemned the assassination of Mr. Ojeda Rios by agents of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI)\".\n\nIn 2007, an agent working in Seattle, Washington for the FBI falsely impersonated an Associated Press (AP) journalist and unwittingly infected the computer of a 15-year old suspect with a malicious surveillance software. The incident sparked a strongly-worded statement from the AP demanding the bureau from ever impersonating a member of the news media again. Moreover, in September 2016 the incident resulted in a condemnation by the Justice Department.\n\nIn December 2017, following a US court appearance, a judge ruled in favor of the AP in a lawsuit against the FBI for frauduently impersonating a member of the news media.\n\nIn August 2007, Virgil Griffith, a Caltech computation and neural-systems graduate student, created WikiScanner, a searchable database that linked changes made by anonymous Wikipedia editors to companies and organizations from which the changes were made. The database cross-referenced logs of Wikipedia edits with publicly available records pertaining to the Internet IP addresses edits were made from. Griffith was motivated by the edits from the United States Congress, and wanted to see if others were similarly promoting themselves. The tool was designed to detect conflict of interest edits. Among his findings were that FBI computers were used to edit the FBI article on Wikipedia. Although the edits correlated with known FBI IP addresses, there was no evidence that the changes actually came from a member or employee of the FBI, only that someone who had access to their network had edited the FBI article on Wikipedia. Wikipedia spokespersons received Griffith's \"WikiScanner\" positively, noting that it helped prevent conflicts of interest from influencing articles as well as increasing transparency and mitigating attempts to remove or distort relevant facts.\nOn July 5, 2016, FBI Director Comey announced the bureau's recommendation that the United States Department of Justice file no criminal charges relating to the Hillary Clinton email controversy. During an unusual 15 minute press conference in the J. Edgar Hoover Building, Comey called Secretary Clinton's and her top aides' behavior \"extremely careless\", but concluded that \"no reasonable prosecutor would bring such a case\".\n\nOn October 28, 2016, less than two weeks before the presidential election, Director Comey, a long-time Republican, announced in a letter to Congress that additional emails potentially related to the Clinton email controversy had been found and that the FBI will investigate \"to determine whether they contain classified information as well as to assess their importance to our investigation.\" At the time Comey sent his letter to Congress, the FBI had still not obtained a warrant to review any of the e-mails in question and was not aware of the content of any of the e-mails in question. After Comey's letter to Congress, commentator Paul Callan of CNN and Niall O'Dowd of Irish Central compared Comey to J. Edgar Hoover in attempting to influence and manipulate elections. On November 6, 2016, in the face of constant pressure from both Republicans and Democrats, Comey conceded in a second letter to Congress that through the FBI's review of the new e-mails, there was no wrongdoing by Clinton.\n\nOn November 12, 2016, former Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton directly attributed her election loss to FBI Director James Comey.\n\nOn June 14, 2018, Michael E. Horowitz, the Inspector General of the Department of Justice, released a report of a year-long investigation into misconduct at the DOJ and FBI over its probe of Hillary Clinton's private email server. Horowitz faulted James Comey, FBI Director at the time of the email server investigation, for deviating from bureau and Justice Department protocol, which damaged the agencies’ image of impartiality, according to the watchdog report.\n\nComey was also faulted for a 'troubling lack of direct or substantive communication' with Attorney General Loretta Lynch ahead of his July 5, 2016 press conference on Clinton's email probe and his subsequent letter to Congress in October 2016. The report read: \"We found it extraordinary that, in advance of two such consequential decisions, the FBI director decided that the best course of conduct was to not speak directly and substantively with the attorney general about how best to navigate those decisions.\"\n\nMoreover, it was determined, according to an internal FBI email and a memo from two GOP-led House committees, that foreign actors may had obtained access to Clinton's emails, including at least one email classified as \"secret.\" The memo did not specify who the foreign actors involved were nor the content of the emails.\n\nThe watchdog probe found no evidence of political bias or criminal misconduct in Comey's decisions throughout the entire email server investigation. \"We found no evidence that the conclusions by department prosecutors were affected by bias or other improper considerations,\" the report stated. Shortly after the release of the report, FBI Director Christopher Wray held a news briefing in Washington where he defended the bureau's integrity over the report's highly-critical findings, but vowed to hold agents accountable for any misconduct and said the FBI will make its employees undergo bias training.\n\nFormer Secretary of State Clinton, President Trump, lawmakers, and academics have commented on the report's findings, denouncing Comey and his breach of bureau norms, and five FBI employees that exchanged questionable text messages leading up to the 2016 US election. All five employees, which include former counter-intelligence agent Peter Strzok, were referred by Horowitz for a separate investigation.\n\nOn May 9, 2017, President Trump dismissed FBI Director Comey after Comey had misstated several key findings of the email investigation in his testimony to the Senate Judiciary Committee. Many mainstream news outlets had questioned whether the dismissal was in response to Comey's request for more resources to expand the probe into Russian interference into the Presidential election. Following Comey's dismissal, Deputy Director Andrew G. McCabe became Acting Director. On August 1, 2017, President Trump's nominee for FBI director Christopher A. Wray was officially confirmed by the Senate in a 92–5 vote and was sworn in as Director the next day.\n\nThe Inspector General of the Department of Justice, Michael E. Horowitz, publicized a report into misconduct at the DOJ and FBI over its handling of the Hillary Clinton private email server investigation. Horowitz criticized James Comey, FBI Director at the time of the investigation, for not following bureau and Justice Department protocol. The IG report, however, did not find any evidence of political bias or criminal misconduct in Comey's decisions throughout the email server investigation.\n\nAccording to the report, Horowitz found that Comey had a 'troubling lack of direct or substantive communication' with Attorney General Loretta Lynch ahead of his July 5, 2016 press conference on Clinton's email probe and his letter to Congress in October 2016. \"We found it extraordinary that, in advance of two such consequential decisions, the FBI director decided that the best course of conduct was to not speak directly and substantively with the attorney general about how best to navigate those decisions,\" according to the IG findings.\n\nMoreover, the report also uncovered the use of a private Gmail account for FBI business utilized by Comey, despite warning employees about its usage. The act of misconduct was \"inconsistent with\" Justice Department policy, the watchdog investigation determined.\n\nOn February 2, 2018, a four-page confidential memo by Republican House Intelligence Committee chairman Devin Nunes was released after being signed by President Trump. According to the memo, a dossier by Christopher Steele and opposition research firm Fusion GPS was utilized by DOJ and FBI officials like E. W. Priestap for FISA warrants to surveil Trump's campaign member Carter Page. Additionally, former FBI Deputy Director Andrew McCabe, who resigned before the release of the memo, stated that the FISA warrant wouldn't have been obtained without the information in the Steele dossier. All four FISA applications were signed by McCabe, Rod Rosenstein, and former FBI Director James Comey. President Trump commented on the release of the memo, saying: \"A lot of people should be ashamed.\"\n\nOn February 16, 2018, two days after the Stoneman Douglas High School shooting, the FBI released a statement detailing information the organization's Public Access Line had received a month prior, on January 5, from a person close to Nikolas Cruz, the suspected shooter. According to the statement, \"The caller provided information about Cruz's gun ownership, desire to kill people, erratic behavior, and disturbing social media posts, as well as the potential of him conducting a school shooting.\" After conducting an investigation, the FBI reported that it had not followed protocol when the tip was not forwarded to the Miami Field Office, where further investigative steps would have been taken to prevent the mass killing.\n\nOn March 16, 2018, Attorney General Jeff Sessions fired Andrew McCabe, former FBI deputy director, for allowing FBI officials to leak information to the media surrounding the Clinton Foundation investigation and then misleading investigators about the incident. The FBI's Office of Professional Responsibility recommended the firing two days prior. The allegations of misconduct were the result of an investigation by Michael E. Horowitz, the Inspector General specific to the DOJ appointed by former US President Barack Obama, who announced in January 2017 that the DOJ would be probing the FBI's actions leading up to the 2016 US election.\n\nOn March 21, 2018, FBI Director Christopher Wray said the firing of McCabe was done \"by the book\" and was not politically motivated. On June 12, 2018, a lawyer representing McCabe sued the Department of Justice and the FBI pertaining to his firing.\n\nOn September 6, 2018, it was disclosed to the media that a grand jury had begun investigating McCabe and summoning witnesses to determine if criminal charges should be filed for having misled the bureau. The probe is currently being handled by the U.S. attorney's office in D.C.\n\nOn April 13, 2018, a section regarding McCabe from the Department of Justice watchdog report was released to the public. According to the report, McCabe \"lacked candor,\" including under oath, and authorized disclosures to the media in violation of FBI policy during a federal investigation into the Clinton Foundation. On April 19, 2018, the Justice Department inspector general had referred the findings of McCabe's misconduct to the U.S. Attorney's Office in Washington, D.C. for possible criminal charges, according to media reports. McCabe has denied the accusations of misconduct.\n\nIn late-2017, during an interview with Circa, former FBI Supervisory special agent Jeffrey Danik spoke out against McCabe and the bureau over his handling of cases surrounding sexual discrimination, Hatch Act Violations, and Hillary Clinton's email server. Around the same period of time, another former Supervisory Special Agent, Robyn Gritz, one of the bureau's top intelligence analysts and terrorism experts, filed a sexual discrimination complaint against the bureau. Gritz came forward with allegations of harassment by McCabe, who she said created a “cancer-like” bureaucracy striking fear in female agents, causing others to resign, and \"poisoning the 7th floor,\" where management is housed in the FBI's Hoover Building. In an additional case, where a federal lawsuit was filed, another agent came forward with allegations of harassment and misogynistic behavior against women in particular, describing an increasing problem of sexism at the bureau.\n\nThe 15-year-old British hacker Kane Gamble, sentenced to two years in youth detention, posed as John Brennan, the then director of the CIA, and Mark F. Giuliano, a former deputy director of the FBI, to access highly sensitive information. Gamble leaked the personal details of over 20,000 FBI employees, including employees' names, job titles, phone numbers and email addresses. The judge said Gamble engaged in \"politically motivated cyber-terrorism.\"\n\nOn June 2, 2018 in Denver, CO, off-duty FBI Agent, Chase Bishop, vacationing from his home in Virginia, negligently discharged his firearm while dancing at a local nightclub. One club patron was injured in the leg, but is expected to make a full recovery. The incident was caught on cellphone video. Bishop was charged with second-degree assault. His next court appearance is scheduled for October, 2018.\n\nOn August 10, 2018, Peter Strzok, a former counter-intelligence agent reassigned to the FBI's Human Resources department, was fired by the Bureau amid tensions over his role in exchanging questionable text messages with another FBI employee. An attorney representing Strzok criticized the Bureau's actions, calling it \"a departure from typical Bureau practice\" and noting that it also \"contradicts Director Wray's testimony to Congress and his assurances that the FBI intended to follow its regular process in this and all personal matters.\"\n\nThe firing came within months of an incident where Strzok was escorted out of an FBI building and also the release of an OIG report by the Department of Justice's inspector general Michael E. Horowitz. Several employees, including Strzok, were referred for a separate investigation by Horowitz for possible misconduct during the Clinton email probe. President Trump praised the Bureau's dismissal, tweeting the following: “Agent Peter Strzok was just fired from the FBI ― finally. The list of bad players in the FBI & DOJ gets longer & longer.”\n"}
{"id": "23159034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23159034", "title": "List of LGBT actions in the United States prior to the Stonewall riots", "text": "List of LGBT actions in the United States prior to the Stonewall riots\n\nAlthough the June 28, 1969, Stonewall riots are generally considered the starting point of the modern gay liberation movement, a number of demonstrations and actions took place before that date. These actions, often organized by local homophile organizations but sometimes spontaneous, addressed concerns ranging from anti-gay discrimination in employment and public accommodations to the exclusion of homosexuals from the United States military to police harassment to the treatment of homosexuals in revolutionary Cuba. The early actions have been credited with preparing the gay community for Stonewall and contributing to the riots' symbolic power.\n\nA favorite technique of early activists was the picket line, especially for those actions organized by such Eastern groups as the Mattachine Society of New York, the Mattachine Society of Washington, Philadelphia's Janus Society and the New York chapter of Daughters of Bilitis, These groups acted under the collective name East Coast Homophile Organizations (ECHO). Organized pickets tended to be in large urban population centers because these centers were where the largest concentration of homophile activists were located. Picketers at ECHO-organized events were required to follow strict dress codes. Men had to wear ties, preferably with a jacket. Women were required to wear skirts. The dress code was imposed by Mattachine Society of Washington founder Frank Kameny, with the goal of portraying homosexuals as \"presentable and 'employable'\". Many of the participants in these early actions went on to become deeply involved in the gay liberation movement.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14578316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14578316", "title": "List of motorcycle clubs", "text": "List of motorcycle clubs\n\nThis is a list of motorcycle-related clubs with articles on Wikipedia.\n\n"}
{"id": "23278170", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23278170", "title": "List of occupational health and safety awards", "text": "List of occupational health and safety awards\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5477429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5477429", "title": "Little Emperor Syndrome", "text": "Little Emperor Syndrome\n\nThe Little Emperor Syndrome (or Little Emperor Effect) was an aspect/view of Mainland China's one-child policy where children of modern upper class and wealthier Chinese families gain seemingly excessive amounts of attention from their parents and grandparents. Combined with increased spending power due to China's growing economic strength within the family unit and parents' general desire for their child to experience the benefits they themselves were denied, the phenomenon is generally considered to be problematic. The British journalist Andrew Marshall even argues that it is shaping modern Chinese society in unexpected ways that may culminate into a future \"behavioral time-bomb\".\n\nLittle Emperors were primarily an urban phenomenon. The one-child policy generally only applied to urban communities and, given the value of labor, one child families are not prevalent within rural communities. Economic development has not had as large an impact outside of urban centers.\n\nModern China's economic growth has tremendously elevated the annual per capita income of urban areas as women have become increasingly represented in the workforce, frequently resulting in families with two sources of income. This greatly improved purchasing power coupled with excessive pampering of only children is the cause of increased spending on children. From toys to clothes, parents shower their child in material goods and give in to every demand; it is common for children to be the \"best-dressed members of their families.\"\n\nRecently, it has become common for most of a family's income to be spent on the child. This effect has become considerable enough to be noticed on a global scale: marketing groups attribute a near doubling of platinum Jewellery sales in China to \"China's 'spoiled brat' generation.\"\n\nLittle Emperors also bear the burden of heavy expectations. Parents who feel they lost their chance in the Cultural Revolution (\"compensation syndrome\") put immense pressure on these children to succeed and compete academically. From an early age parents push their only child to educational extremes as they cater to their whims; \"though many of these precocious kids can recite the English alphabet or read newspapers in traditional Chinese characters by the time they're 10, their parents often still perform basic tasks for them: fixing their hair, tying their shoes, wiping their bottoms.\" Boarding school, private English lessons, music lessons and an additional range of extracurricular activities are the normal fare.\n\nOne factor frequently associated with the Little Emperor effect is the \"four-two-one\" family structure, which refers to the collapse of the traditionally large Chinese family into four grandparents and two parents doting on one child. Beyond the obvious further funneling of resources towards the whims and potential of the only child, this four-two-one reconfiguration of the familial structure has distinct ramifications for Chinese society. The Little Emperors of the one-child policy have warped the traditional family beyond recognition; \"in the past, the power in a household devolved from the father,\" who ruled over a multitude of offspring.\n\nNow the household structures itself entirely around the one child. This shift from earlier structures that supported the culture of filial piety has caused much concern; \"traditionally, a great number of children, particularly sons, was seen as proof of the family's standing and it guaranteed the continuity of ancestor-worshipping customs.\" The most salient issue stems from the worry about who will look after the elderly. Aside from a potentially radical shift in cultural norms concerning the treatment of the elderly, this new family structure poses a purely demographic problem: \"the composition of the dependent population is shifting away from children toward elderly population.\"\n\nMany Chinese families use traditional Confucian values to teach their only child. Confucianism considers Ren (love and social responsibility) the core emotion that inspires other moral concepts in personal motivation. The child often receives too much love and has been highly mentally and physically restricted to devote themselves to a heavy load of schoolwork, considering that the economic future of the family depends on their success. Such a situation can directly lead to the overindulgence of the child thus reversing traditional Confucian values of Ren (仁) and filial piety (xiao 孝). There is also evidence that many young Chinese feel heavily burdened and a huge sense of responsibility toward their parents, understanding that their success can have crucial consequences for their family.\n\nDepending on specific family conditions and a child's outlook, this burden can lead to a diligent lifestyle by youngsters or to a more rebellious attitude to traditional codes or to not being able to cope with such pressure nor to develop self-discipline.\n\nThe combination of immense pressure to excel and extreme pampering is reported to have resulted in a stunting of social and emotional growth. The perceived maladjustment of the Little Emperors is an exaggerated subject within the media; \"the government has [tried] to cope with the Little Emperor problem through frequent cautionary stories in the press.\" These stories depict children hanging themselves after being denied sweets and cases of matricide in retribution for a scolding or late dinner. The discussion of Little Emperors has saturated public discussion concerning the one-child policy in Chinese and international media.\n\nPsychological studies do not support this view or, at best, offered mixed results. Results from earlier studies are inconsistent with some more recent studies that suggest there are no reliable differences between only children and those with siblings. However, a survey published in 2013 on 431 Beijing adults finds that those who had grown up after the introduction of the one-child policy were lacking \"entrepreneurial drive and the willingness to take risks. This even had a significant impact on career choices.\n\n"}
{"id": "44417685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44417685", "title": "Mangnejo", "text": "Mangnejo\n\nMangnejo () is a Sindhi tribe in Sindh, Pakistan. Mangneja tribe is settled in Kamber Shahdadkot District Khairpur, Karachi, Sukkur, Naushahro Feroze, Tando Allahyar, Hyderabad and Larkano districts of Sindh.\n\nThe Mangneja speak the Sindhi language.\n"}
{"id": "40455469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40455469", "title": "Mbunda people", "text": "Mbunda people\n\nThe Vambunda (singular \"Kambunda\", adjective and language \"Mbunda\", \"Mbúùnda\" or \"Chimbúùnda\") are a Bantu people who, during the Bantu migrations, came from the north to south-eastern Angola and finally Barotseland, now part of Zambia. Their core is at present found in the south-east of Angola from the Lunguevungu river in Moxico to the Cuando Cubango Province.\n\nThe Vambunda comprise a number of subgroups, each of which speaks its own dialect: Mbunda Mathzi (\"Katavola\"), Yauma, Nkangala, Mbalango, Sango, Shamuka (\"Chiyengele\") and Ndundu, all of them alive in southeast Angola. \n\nAccording to the oral tradition of the Vambunda, the first Mbunda Monarch was King Mwene Nkuungu. It was along the tributaries to the Zambezi that the first Mbunda settled in present-day eastern Angola.\n\nAfter the crossing of the Lyambayi or Zambezi river, as it is known today, the Mbunda under the leadership of Vamwene Kaamba ka Mbaao travelled up to a tributary of the Luena river in the now Angola which they named Mithimoyi. They settled along the Mithimoyi river (or Misimoyi as known by later settlers), now called Sakasaji river, named after a nearby Chokwe village. They settled near its confluence with the Luena river. From there, the group moved in a south-westerly direction and settled in the Luchazes area.\n\nThis expansion, which was later spearheaded by the 12th and 13th Mbunda monarchs, King Mwene Kathangila ka Mukenge and King Yambayamba Kapanda expeditions respectively, also gave way to thirteen Mbunda descendant ethnicity of the Mbunda Mathzi (Katavola], the Chimbandi, the Humbi, the Ngonjelo, the Luimbi, the Nyemba, the Luchazi, the Sango, the Mbalango, the Nkangala, the Yauma, the Ndundu and the Mashaka.\n\nThe Mbunda continued expanding southwards to a larger settlement, where the Mbunda Kingdom continued to flourish in what became known as Mbundaland from Lungwevungu river to Chibanda or southern border with Namibia, while Lumbala Nguimbo became their capital, where His Majesty King Mbandu III Mbandu Lifuti reigns today.\n\nMeanwhile, back in Mbundaland the Mbunda people were involved in a fierce battle with the Chokwe people. That came about after the death of the 19th Mbunda monarch King Mwene Katavola I Mwechela, who was believed to have been assassinated after an abolitionist cabal, clandestinely plotted against him due to his promulgating a royal decree which forbade intermarriages with other nationalities. His successor and 20th Mbunda monarch, King Mwene Katavola II Musangu, who was believed to be one of the plotters of his assassination contravened the royal decree of his predecessor by his passion for a Chokwe slave beauty named Nyakoma, who was owned by the Chokwe Chief called Mwa Mushilinjinji whom he allocated land to settle at the Luwe, a tributary of the Nengu river. The marriage proposal was turned down by Mushilinjinji because it was taboo for a royal personage to marry a slave, because the offspring of such a marriage could never qualify as royals. That resulted in his declaration of war against the Chokwe people and an attempt to chase them out of the Mbundaland. He was killed within a few days after the Mbunda-Chokwe battle, having been ambushed and killed. The war conclusively ended in favour of the Mbunda, with his successor and 21st Mbunda monarch, King Mwene Mbandu I Lyondthzi Kapova who waged a systematic war of vengeance against the Chokwe for his nephew's death.\n\nKing Mwene Mbandu I Lyondthzi Kapova also led the Mbunda in their armed confrontation with the Luvale who were anxious to break the military power and independence of the Mbunda state and wanted to capture slaves for sale. The two opposing military forces engaged each other in armed combat in the Lunjweva area where he shot and killed Masambo, the leader of the invading Luvale forces. With the elimination of Masambo, the invaders were put to rout and forced to beat a hasty and disorderly retreat back to their homeland.\n\nAt the end of the 18th century some of the Mbunda migrated to Barotseland, Mongu. upon the migration of among others, the Ciyengele The Aluyi and their leader, the Litunga Mulambwa especially prized the Mbunda for their ability to fight. When the Luvale also known as Lovale invaded Barotseland from the north, the Mbunda countered the invasion and were victorious, ending the Lovale invasions. King Mulambwa also cemented the bond of friendship between the Aluyi and the Mbunda with a ten (10) point Mulambwa/Chiyengele Treaty and ceremonially giving a sharp pointed pole called mulombwe to Mwene Chitengi Chiyengele and confirmed his stay in Barotseland as the Senior Chief of the Mbunda. This and other factors earned the Mbunda to be included on the Barotse National Council.\n\nSecondly, the Mbunda fought alongside Aluyi in the Aluyi/Makololo war in 1830, which ousted the Makololo occupation of Barotseland, leading to the establishment of the Mbunda Chieftainship at Lukwakwa under Senior Chief Mwene Sikufele now in Kabompo District, being a descendant of the Mbunda that supported Prince Mubukwanu of the Aluyi. The Makololo from the south introduced the Sotho language spoken not only in Western Province today but also Botswana, Lesotho, South Africa and Caprivi Strip.\n\nThe Mbunda also fought alongside the Aluyi against the Tonga in the 1880s, emerging victory as the Tonga had no defense against the Mbunda‘s skill with a bow and arrow, resulting in the Lozi/Mbunda and Tonga Cousinship. Later the Kaonde/Lozi war which Lozis won with the help of the Mbunda war machinery, resulting in the Mbunda Chieftainship of Chief Mwene Kasimba having firmly been established there at the confluence of the Lalafuta and Kyamenge in 1893, opposite Chief Mushima Njivumina of the Kaonde. In honoring the Mulambwa/Chiyengele Treaty, the Mbunda have remained the true allies of the Aluyi both in military and political matters. The Mbunda lived peacefully, tendering their cattle and growing cassava, maize and rice, while many of the men left their homes to work in the South African mines. With Zambia independence from British rule that came in 1964, the practice was discouraged and the men were then recruited to work on the sugar plantations of Zambia.\n\nAt the beginning of the 20th century due to their resistance to Portuguese colonial occupation, when the Portuguese colonialists abducted the twenty first (21st) Mbunda Monarch, King Mwene Mbandu I Lyondthzi Kapova, the Mbunda waged a fierce armed campaigns in defending their Mbundaland. Technology however, aided the Portuguese forces in gaining an upper hand in the war as they had a consistent supply of gunpowder for their guns. Without the knowledge to make gunpowder, the Mbunda eventually found their muzzle-loaders useless and increasingly relied on their bows and arrows as well as a few other traditional arms which were suited for close contact warfare. The Portuguese firepower took a heavy toll of the Mbunda, some of whom started to throw their muzzle-loaders in the rivers for lack of gunpowder. The Portuguese eventually dislodged the Mbunda Kingdom extending Angola territory over Mbundaland. This caused the second migration of the Mbunda to Barotseland.\n\nAnd later because of the impact of the Angolan War of Independence (1961–1974) and the post-Independence Angolan Civil War (1975–2002), many of the Mbunda fled Angola to relocate in western Zambia, this marked the third and fourth wave of Mbunda immigration to the now Western Province of Zambia. These refugees were related to the Mbunda who were already living around Kalabo, Senanga, Mongu, Kaoma, Lukulu and Kabompo in Zambia. A number of Mbunda also took refuge in Northern Namibia, the west and east of Kavango Region, around Rundu and Nkurenkuru and Caprivi Strip.\n\nThe Mbunda system of traditional rule had been such that sovereign rule of the entire Kingdom was vested in the king who had to come from the central matrilineal line of the royal hierarchy. This somewhat limited the number of aspiring royals to the central throne. The King had absolute authority so that when he made a decision his or her decision was not questioned but was to be carried out. The two main functions of a King were to legislate rules and govern the community. At the same time there was an effective, decentralized system of traditional rule in the numerous areas and localities.\n\nThe Vambunda are talented iron (vutale) and copper (vunegu) workers and proficient hunters and soldiers with their bows and arrows. Both men and women are good at fishing. While men use nets and other implements, women use special kind of baskets to catch fish. They are also remarkably skilled at a number of economic activities, such as: \n\nThey collect clay from the plain or the river banks, put it in a special container called liwati and wet it with water, after pounding it they then mix it with burnt clay powder called vunga vwa vitambi.\n\nMen cut pieces of trees and carve them into pounding sticks, mortars, spear and fish-spear shafts, knife-handles, walking sticks, axe and hoe handles, poles, curios, canoes and oars and also musical instruments, vithandthzi, a type of harp, vinkuvu, drums, stools, bowls, pounding troughs and other utensils.\n\nMen peel off the bark of big trees such as mushovi and munyumbe and hammer them on a plank with mallets called vithano till they become soft. These bark cloths are called vifundo and when the work is completed, the vifundo or maina! can be worn around the waist and also used as blankets.\n\nWomen make winnowing baskets, small bowl baskets called vingalo for food and big bowl shaped baskets called mendeko for keeping mealie meal and other things out of the roots of mijalu trees and small roots called tujalu. Men make fishing baskets called matambi out of a species of reeds called manenga, mats out of mateve (papyrus) called manala, also manala or mats out of long grass called n'olokoko as well as mavoya and kambanga water grass.\n\nLong ago the Mbunda people introduced their own salt called mukele. Mukele is made out of the following grasses: mulele, stalks of maize and millet, mateve (papyrus) and cassava stalks.\n\nThis is mainly for women again with the help of men. Oil is made out of wild fruits that bears fat and some of them are edible.\n\nApart from all that, Mbunda people cultivate the tropical forest which are found in where they live, and grow assorted crops. They grow maize, millet, sorghum, beans, and sweet potatoes and cassava being their staple food. They also keep domestic stock. Their traders before the Portuguese occupation for all these activities came into contact with the Portuguese, and Ovimbundu traders of Bié Plateau of central Angola, who largely traded in bee wax, ivory trade and rubber, in exchange with guns and cloth material.\n\nThe Mbunda have two religious traditions which coexist in Mbunda society: the traditional religious practices and the modern religious practices and beliefs which are a combination of traditional and Christian influences. Overwhelmingly the Vambunda follow Christianity, with roughly equal shares falling to the Catholic Church and to different Protestant denominations, mainly the \"Igreja Evangélica Congregacional de Angola (IECA)\", founded by American missionaries.\n\nMissionary Rev. Albert Bailey, of the Africa Evangelical Fellowship (then called the South African General Mission) entered Angola in 1914 and opened a mission station on Luanginga River and, with the aid of the Mbunda speaking man from Rhodesia, engaged in compiling a vocabulary – one of the first steps in the acquisition of an unwritten language. The work of translating the Mbunda Bible was started in eanerst.\n\nStill in 1914, a revolt by the Mbunda people against the Portuguese Colonialists caused large numbers of the local people to flee across the border into Barotseland, now Zambia. In 1916, Mr. Bailey decided to find a more populated location and, with the Governor’s permission, built a station at Muie. In 1918, J. Jakeman and Andrew McGill relieved Mr. Bailey and established a number of outposts among the Mbunda and Luchazi people. In the ensuing years, four more stations were established: Cunjamba, N'inda, Casuango and Catota all in the fallen Mbundaland.\n\nThe book of John, was translated by the Rev Albert W Bailey known as (Avele), it was printed at Kamundongo Mission of United Church of Canada, now IECA- Igreja Evangelica Congregacional em Angola, in 1919; The book of Matthew in Mbunda and Portuguese was translated by Abraham at Muie in 1925; The book of Mark was translated by Rev. John C Procter at Muie also in 1925 and another edition of Rev Bailey's translation was published in diglot at Muie in 1928; The book of Luke was by Mateo at Muie in 1927 and also Hymnal in Portuguese and Mbunda. The Committee of reviewers consisted of Rev. Albert W Bailey, Rev. John C Procter, A McGill, Dr P.V. Watson.\n\nIn 1937 Mr. and Mrs. Pearson initiated a Bible Training School at Muie, with the New Testament (published in 1935) as their only textbook. At Muie Leonard and Nellie Brain had charge of the church work and operation of the mission station.\nDuring a Mbunda workshop conducted by Dr. Hope in 1987 participants requested that the writing of certain words in Mbunda should be standardised and that the translators should be guided as to how to write certain Mbunda words. However, on 17 April 1989 it was resolved to drop the argument on the four major Luchazi spelling problems of \"s\", \"z\", \"nz\" and \"ts\" as opposed to the Mbunda \"th\", \"thz\", \"ths\" and \"ndthz\", and go ahead with the translation as there was always room for revision. The Mbunda Bible was finally printed and launched on 17 August 2008 in Angola and 31 January 2009 in Zambia. However the Mbunda Bible translation is still heavily saturated with Luchazi spellings.\n\nSome Mbunda people though, still retain beliefs and practices from African traditional religions, believing in Njambi as a supreme creator of the world who created everything of existence on earth. Their religion did not address Njambi directly, but through the spirits of their ancestors.\n\nThe Mbunda have maintained most of their old traditions such as respect for their ancestors, “coming of age” rituals for both boys (Mukanda Initiation Ceremony and their not less than fifty Makithi artifacts), girls (Litungu or Bwali), relying on cattle, goats, wild meat, fish, chicken and cassava for their food, men carry weapons such as bow and arrows, spears or machetes when traveling away from their villages and women still creating baskets from makenge roots.\n\nAt the beginning of the planting season or when a hunter failed to kill animals, the people of a village gathered at fetish poles (vimbundi) marked or coloured with red and white clay placed in the appropriate place, often outside the house just near the door directly against the bed where the heads point when people are asleep, to worship and pray to their ancestors, before the field activities start. This is also done when making offerings to there ancestors, during sicknesses or deaths where evil spirits were suspected, when bad dreams have been experienced and when summoning rains during a drought. Offerings are made in the form of a sacrifice such as killing an animal, a chicken, goat, cow, pig or sheep or any living thing with the exception of a human being. The blood of the animal was rubbed against the fetish poles (vimbundi) as respect, praise and honour to God and the spirits.\n\nMukanda, is an initiation ritual for boys, which is practiced by the Mbunda. Usually, the young boys live for three to six months at a bush camp away from their villages after circumcission, to be taught practical survival-skills as well as knowledge about nature, religion, social practices and values. During that period a Makithi masquerade of not less than fifty (50) exclusive Mbunda artifacts is exhibited, and dances involving the pantomime-like artistry artifacts is performed as a cultural entertainment to the community. At the end of this initiation period, the boys are reintegrated into the community. This ritual is also practiced by other ethnicities like the Chokwe the Luvale and the Luchazi, with the Mbunda being the major stakeholders in the Makishi masquerade as pronounced by others, owning not less than fifty (50) exclusive Mbunda artifacts.\n\nIt is believed that a Mbunda Prince Consort Mukwetunga Chiliba Kamenga who was sent by the 10th Mbunda monarch King Mwene Katete ka Lweembe in pursuit of the elephants, strayed onto a Mukanda Circumcision camp for the Mbwela people, near the present day Angola and the Democratic Republic of the Congo border in Lubaland. This led to him getting circumcised and introduced the Mukanda circumcision ritual to the Mbunda upon his return. When Prince Consort Mukwetunga Chiliba Kamenga returned with the Mukanda circumcision ritual, he found King Mwene Katete ka Lweembe who sent him had died and the Prince Consort's wife, Princesses Vamunamwene Mukenge had succeeded him. Queen Vamwene Mukenge, Livindamo was the last female Mbunda monarch. That was as a result of the circumcision ritual adoption meant for men only, which led to female rulership being subordinated to male political authority. This change meant that only male royalty could be enthroned as sovereign rulers or monarchs of the Mbunda Kingdom. Female royalty could henceforth never again assume the Mbunda monarch.\n\nThe Mbunda have four annual ceremonies in which Mbunda people of Angola, Congo, Namibia and Zambia join to praise their Creator the Almighty God for the blessings on them in providing good harvest for the year. These ceremonies are: One in Angola called Lithathe Lya Miondo Ya Mbunda, celebrated every second week of August with the weekend being the climax, in Lumbala Nguimbo, Moxico at the palace of His Majesty King Mbandu III Mbandu Lifuti. Three in Zambia, with the first called Mbunda Mbalango Lyenya, celebrated every August at Chief Muundu palace in Liumba, Kalabo District of Western Zambia. The second called Mbunda Liyoyelo, celebrated every September at Chief Chiyengele Chingumbe II palace at Kayombo in Kabompo District of North Western Province of Zambia. The third called Mbunda Lukwakwa, celebrated during the first week of October with the weekend being the climax at Senior Chief Sikufele's palace at Manyinga in Kabompo District. All these ceremonies showcase the Mbunda makishi masquerade, wood carvings, a variety of Mbunda traditional foods and dances.\n\n"}
{"id": "8891949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8891949", "title": "Molly Williams", "text": "Molly Williams\n\nMolly Williams (fl. 1818) was the first known female firefighter in the United States. An African American, she was held as a slave belonging to a New York City merchant by the name of Benjamin Aymar who was affiliated with the Oceanus Engine Company #11 in 1818. During her time in the company she was called Volunteer No. 11. Williams made a distinguished presence in her sturdy work clothes of calico dress and checked apron and was said to be \"as good a fire laddie as many of the boys.\" Her service was noted particularly during the blizzard of 1818. Male firefighters were scarce due to an influenza outbreak, but Williams took her place with the men on the dragropes and pulled the pumper to the fire through the deep snow.\n\nWhen asked, Williams always replied: \"‘I belongs to ole ‘Leven; I allers runs wid dat ole bull-gine.’\"\n\n"}
{"id": "44783078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44783078", "title": "Muhajir culture", "text": "Muhajir culture\n\nMuhajir culture () is the culture of Urdu Muslims that migrated mainly from North India after the independence of Pakistan in 1947 generally to the Sindh province and mainly to the city of Karachi. They are also known as Urdu speakers, on account of Urdu being their native language, and have also been referred to as Hindustani Musalman (\"Indian Muslims\"). Many Muhajirs of Pakistan are closely related to the Muslims of Uttar Pradesh in India. The Muhajirs are concentrated in urban areas of Sindh.\n\nUrdu Speaking or Muhajirs ancestors were actually founders of Pakistan with there incessantly love & sacrificed toward Pakistan & creation of Pakistan began from 1857 freedom fight & transformed it Pakistan movement was started from Aligarh Muslim University.\n\nUrdu Speakings are well civilised & highly educated people's in Pakistan although since 70's era they have been blatantly treated inequalities in Pakistan in the form of black Quota System (black Quota System was launched by Zulfiqar Ali Bhutto for depriving Urdu Speaking nation for their basic rights in Pakistan).Karachi.\n\n1947.\n\nan.\n\nUrdu Nation (Urdu speaking) or Mohajirs are enriched with their civilization with Urdu Language, Literature & highly education & books lovers & well attir Khurta Pazama & Jinnah cap.\n\nToday's Urdu Speaking Nation facing extremely discrimination from the state of Sindh & Pakistan for their basic rights, education & inappropriate & glaring injustices by Government which are largely consists of Feudals & Lords & they never wants to flourish Pakistan in term of merit, poors & common Men well education, Justice, Health & basic & civic necessities. e.g Actual population of Karachi is more than 30 Millions and declared Karachi as most populated & urbanized city in Pakistan but in recent census it populations manipulated & camouflagely showed as lower as 14 Millions which is another injustice against the Urdu Speaking or Muhajirs Nation in Pakistan.\n\nThe roots of Muhajirs lies with Muslim migration and settlement in North India especially modern Uttar Pradesh. The conversion of natives to Islam and the migration of Muslims from the Muslim World coalesced to form the Urdu Muslim community which was referred to as \"Hindustani Musalmans, East Punjab\". Early settlement of Northern Muslims was due to the migrations and then establishment of Turkish Sultanate. Most Muslim in Northern India, particularly in Delhi and adjoining areas were of Turkic origin. In medieval times, the term \"Hindustani Musalman\" was applied to those Muslims who were either converts to Islam or whose ancestors migrated and settled in Delhi Sultanate. These Hindustani Musalmans did not form a single community, as they were divided by ethnic, linguistic and economic differences. Often these early settlers lived in fortified towns, known as Qasbahs. With the rise of the barbaric Mongols hordes under Genghis Khan which committed massacres and genocides in Central Asia and Middle East, there was an influx of Muslim refugees into the Delhi Sultanate, many of whom settled in the provincial qasbas, bringing with them an Arabo-Persianized culture. Many of these early settlers are the ancestors of the Sayyid and Shaikh communities. In these qasbas, over time a number of cultural norms arose, which still typify many North Indian Muslim traditions. The Turkish Sultans of Delhi and their Mughal successors patronized the émigré Muslim culture: Islamic jurists of the Sunni Hanafi school, Persian literati who were Shia Ithnā‘ashariyyah and Sufis of several orders, including the Chishti, Qadiri and Naqshbandi. These Sufi orders were particularly important in converting Hindus to Islam.\n\nMillions of natives converted to Islam during the Muslim rule. Lodi dynasty was dominated by the Pashtuns soldiers from Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Afghanistan who settled in the northern India. After the Battle of Panipat (1526) Mughal Emperor Babur defeated the Lodi dynasty with Tajik, Chagatai and Uzbek soldiers and nobility. These Central Asian Turk soldiers and nobles were awarded estates and they settled with their families in the northern India. These diverse ethnic, cultural and linguistic groups merged over the centuries to the form Urdu speaking Muslims of South Asia.\n\nThe Rohilla leader Daud Khan was awarded the Katehar (later called Rohilkhand) region in the then northern India by Mughal emperor Aurangzeb Alamgir (ruled 1658-1707) to suppress the Rajput uprisings, which had afflicted this region. Originally, some 20,000 soldiers from various Pashtun tribes (Yusafzai, Ghori, Ghilzai, Barech, Marwat, Durrani, Tareen, Kakar, Naghar, Afridi and Khattak) were hired by Mughals to provide soldiers to the Mughal armies. Their performance was appreciated by Mughal emperor Aurangzeb Alamgir, and an additional force of 25,000 Pashtuns were recruited from modern Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Afghanistan and were given respected positions in Mughal Army. Nearly all of Pashtuns settled in the Katehar region and also brought their families from modern Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Afghanistan. In 1739, a new wave of Pashtuns settled increasing their population to over 100,0000. After the Third Battle of Panipat fought in 1761 between the Ahmad Shah Durrani and Maratha Empire thousands of Muslim Pashtun, Punjabi and Baloch soldiers settled in the northern India. These diverse ethnic, cultural and linguistic groups merged over the centuries to the form the Urdu speaking Muslims of South Asia.\n\nIt is estimated that about 35% of Urdu speakers are of Pashtun origin. The provinces such as Uttar Pradesh and Bihar had significant population of Pashtuns. These Pashtuns over the years lost their language Pashto and culture and adopted Urdu as their first language. Sub-groups also includes the Hyderabadi Muslims, Memon Muslims, Bihari Muslims etc. who keep many of their unique cultural traditions. Muslims from what are now the states of Delhi, Bihar and Uttar Pradesh.\n\nWhen the Mughal Empire disintegrated, their territory remained confined to the Doab region of and Delhi. Other areas of Hindustan (Uttar Pradesh or U.P.) were now ruled by different rulers: Oudh was ruled by the Shia Nawabs of Oudh, Rohilkhand by the Rohillas, Bundelkhand by the Marathas and Benaras by its own king, while Nepal controlled Kumaon-Garhwal as a part of Greater Nepal. The state's capital city of Lucknow was established by the Muslim Nawabs of Oudh in the 18th century. It became an important centre of Muslim culture, and the centre for the development of Urdu literature.\n\nBy the early 19th Century, the British had established their control over what is now Uttar Pradesh. This led to an end of almost eight centuries of Muslim rule over Uttar Pradesh. The British rulers created a class of feudal landowners who were generally referred to as zamindars, and in Awadh as taluqdars. Many of these large landowners provided patronage to the arts, and funded many of the early Muslim educational institutions. A major educational institution was the Aligarh Muslim University, which gave its name to the Aligarh movement. Under the guidance of Sir Sayyid Ahmed Khan, the Urdu speaking Muslim elite sought to retain their position of political and administrative importance by reconciling their Mughal and Islamic culture with English education. A somewhat different educational movement was led by the Ulema of Deoband, who founded a religious school or Dar-ul-Uloom designed to revitalize Islamic learning. The aim of the Deobandis, as the movement became known as was to purge the Muslims of all strata of traditions and customs that were claimed to be Hindu.\n\nThe role of Urdu language played an important role in the development of Muslim self-consciousness in the early twentieth century. Urdu speaking Muslims set up Anjumans or associations for the protection and promotion of Urdu. These early Muslim associations formed the nucleus of the All India Muslim League in Dhaka in 1905. Many of the leaders belonged to the Ashraf category. Urdu speaking Muslims formed the core of the movement for a separate Muslim state, later known as Pakistan. The eventual effect of this movement led to the Pakistan Movement, and independence of Pakistan. This led to an exodus of many Muslim professionals to Pakistan, and the division of the Urdu speaking Muslims, with the formation of the Muhajir ethnic group of Pakistan. The role of the Aligarh Muslim University was extremely important in the creation of Pakistan.\n\nThe independence of Pakistan in 1947 saw the settlement of Muslim refugees fleeing from anti-Muslim pogroms in India especially in that part of Punjab which remained in India after its division. The Muslim refugees lost all their land and properties in India when they fled and some were partly compensated by properties left by Hindus that migrated from Pakistan to India. The Muslim Gujaratis, Konkanis, Hyderabadis, Marathis, Rajasthanis and Biharis fled India and settled in Karachi. There is also a sizable community of Malayali Muslims in Karachi (the Mappila), originally from Kerala in South India. There is also a sizable community of people of Tamil Muslim heritage. The non-Urdu speaking Muslim refugees from India now speak the Urdu language and have assimilated into the wider community of Muhajirs.\n\n"}
{"id": "22808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22808", "title": "On War", "text": "On War\n\nVom Kriege () is a book on war and military strategy by Prussian general Carl von Clausewitz (1780–1831), written mostly after the Napoleonic wars, between 1816 and 1830, and published posthumously by his wife Marie von Brühl in 1832. It has been translated into English several times as On War. \"On War\" is actually an unfinished work; Clausewitz had set about revising his accumulated manuscripts in 1827, but did not live to finish the task. His wife edited his collected works and published them between 1832 and 1835. His 10-volume collected works contain most of his larger historical and theoretical writings, though not his shorter articles and papers or his extensive correspondence with important political, military, intellectual and cultural leaders in the Prussian state. \"On War\" is formed by the first three volumes and represents his theoretical explorations. It is one of the most important treatises on political-military analysis and strategy ever written, and remains both controversial and influential on strategic thinking.\n\nClausewitz was among those intrigued by the manner in which the leaders of the French Revolution, especially Napoleon, changed the conduct of war through their ability to motivate the populace and gain access to the full resources of the state, thus unleashing war on a greater scale than had previously been seen in Europe. Clausewitz was well educated and had strong interests in art, history, science, and education. He was a professional soldier who spent a considerable part of his life fighting against Napoleon. The insights he gained from his political and military experiences, combined with a solid grasp of European history, provided the basis for the book.\n\nThe book contains a wealth of historical examples used to illustrate its various concepts. Frederick II of Prussia (the Great) figures prominently for having made very efficient use of the limited forces at his disposal, though Napoleon is perhaps the central figure.\n\nAccording to Azar Gat, the \"general message\" of the book was that \"the conduct of war could not be reduced to universal principles.\" Among many strands of thought, three stand out as essential to Clausewitz's concept:\n\n\nSome of the key ideas (not necessarily original to Clausewitz or even to his mentor Gerhard von Scharnhorst) discussed in \"On War\" include (in no particular order of importance):\n\n\nClausewitz used a dialectical method to construct his argument, leading to frequent modern misinterpretation because he explores various—often opposed—ideas before coming to conclusions.\n\nModern perception of war are based on the concepts Clausewitz put forth in \"On War\", though these have been very diversely interpreted by various leaders (e.g., Moltke, Vladimir Lenin, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Mao Zedong, etc.), thinkers, armies, and peoples. Modern military doctrine, organization, and norms are all based on Napoleonic premises, even to this day—though whether these premises are necessarily also \"Clausewitzian\" is debatable.\n\nThe \"dualism\" of Clausewitz's view of war (i.e., that wars can vary a great deal between the two \"poles\" he proposed, based on the political objectives of the opposing sides and the context) seems simple enough, but few commentators have proven willing to accept this crucial variability—they insist that Clausewitz \"really\" argued for one end of the scale or the other. \"On War\" has been seen by some prominent critics as an argument for \"total war\". It has been blamed for the level of destruction involved in the First and Second World Wars, but it seems rather that Clausewitz (who did not actually use the term \"total war\") had merely foreseen the inevitable development that started with the huge, patriotically motivated armies of the Napoleonic wars. These wars resulted (though war's evolution has not yet ended) in the atomic bombing of Hiroshima and Nagasaki, with all the forces and capabilities of the state devoted to destroying forces and capabilities of the enemy state (thus \"total war\"). Conversely, Clausewitz has also been seen as \"The preeminent military and political strategist of limited war in modern times.\" (Robert Osgood, 1979)\n\nClausewitz and his proponents have been severely criticized by competing theorists--Antoine-Henri Jomini in the 19th century, B. H. Liddell Hart in the mid-20th century, and Martin van Creveld and John Keegan more recently. \"On War\" is a work rooted solely in the world of the nation state, says historian Martin Van Creveld, who alleges that Clausewitz takes the state \"almost for granted\" as he rarely looks at anything previous to Westphalia. He alleges that Clausewitz does not address any form of intra/supra-state conflict, such as rebellion and revolution, because he could not theoretically account for warfare before the existence of the state. Previous kinds of conflict were demoted to criminal activities without legitimacy and not worthy of the label \"war.\" Van Creveld argues that \"Clausewitzian war\" requires the state to act in conjunction with the people and the army, the state becoming a massive engine built to exert military force against an identical opponent. He supports this statement by pointing to the conventional armies in existence throughout the 20th century. However, revolutionaries like Karl Marx and Friedrich Engels did derive some inspiration from Clausewitzian ideas.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38211935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38211935", "title": "Outline of political science", "text": "Outline of political science\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to politics and political science:\n\nPolitics – the exercise of power; process by which groups of people make collective decisions. Politics is the art or science of running governmental or state affairs (including behavior within civil governments), institutions, fields, and special interest groups such as the corporate, academic, and religious segments of society.\n\nPolitical science – the field concerning the theory and practice of politics and the description and analysis of political systems and political behavior.\n\n\n\nPolitical theory\n\nElection\n\nPolitical party\n\nPolitical strategy\n\nPolitical corruption\n\n\nPolitical philosophy\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "622294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=622294", "title": "Rod Coronado", "text": "Rod Coronado\n\nRodney Adam Coronado (born July 3, 1966) is a Native American (Pascua Yaqui) eco-anarchist and animal rights activist. He is an advocate and former activist for the Animal Liberation Front (ALF) and a spokesperson for the Earth Liberation Front. He was a crew member of the Sea Shepherd Conservation Society and a member of the editorial collective of the \"Earth First! Journal\". Coronado was jailed in 1995 in connection with an arson attack on research facilities at Michigan State University, which caused $125,000 worth of damage and destroyed 32 years of research data.\n\nIn 2006, while imprisoned for felony conspiracy and awaiting trial on further charges, Coronado expressed a change in his personal philosophy inspired by fatherhood. In an open letter, he wrote, \"Don't ask me how to burn down a building. Ask me how to grow watermelons or how to explain nature to a child,\" explaining that he wants to be remembered, not as a \"man of destruction but [as] a human believer in peace and love for all.\" He was released on probation in December 2008, but was imprisoned again for four months in August 2010 for accepting a \"friend request\" on Facebook from an environmental activist, Mike Roselle, which was deemed a violation of his probation.\n\nCoronado is of Yaqui heritage and lives in Tucson, Arizona. He has a long history of activism, particularly through incendiary tactics. In 1985, at the age of 19, he joined the crew of the conservation ship, \"Sea Shepherd Conservation Society\", and on November 9, 1986, he and another activist, David Howitt, sank two ships, the \"Hvalur 6\" and \"Hvalur 7\", accounting for half of Iceland's whaling fleet. Before scuttling the ships, Coronado and Howitt caused $2 million worth of damage to the Icelandic whaling station. Coronado wrote about this action in the animal rights magazine \"No Compromise\".\n\nIn 1995, Coronado was convicted and sentenced to 57 months in prison in connection with the February 28, 1992 arson attack on research facilities at Michigan State University (MSU), which caused $125,000 worth of damage. He was also involved in an Animal Liberation Front (ALF) action, releasing mink from a nearby MSU mink research farm, wrecking equipment and opening animals' cages. As a condition of his sentence, Coronado was ordered to pay MSU $2 million in restitution. In 1992 the Animal Enterprise Protection Act (revised in 2006 to Animal Enterprise Terrorism Act), enacted largely in response to the MSU attacks, was the first legislation adding sabotage as a defined activity of eco-terrorism.\n\nIn February 2006, Coronado was arrested on a felony charge of demonstrating the use of an incendiary device at a public gathering in the Hillcrest neighborhood of San Diego. The indictment indirectly relates to an August 1, 2003 fire in San Diego that destroyed an apartment complex causing an estimated $50 million worth of damage. A banner was found at the scene inscribed with the initials of the ELF. Coronado, a self-described \"unofficial ELF spokesman,\" gave a talk on militant environmental activism in San Diego 15 hours later, where he explained how to make incendiary devices. He denies any role in the incident, and investigators do not consider him a suspect in starting the fire.\n\nHis arrest was associated with the FBI's \"Operation Backfire\", a sweep of grand jury indictments against alleged ALF and ELF members, termed the \"Green Scare\" by activists. Some alternative media sources say Coronado was simply exercising his constitutional right to freedom of speech when \"in response to a question from an audience member\" he \"demonstrated how he had constructed a non-explosive, incendiary device out of a plastic jug filled with gasoline to commit the old arson for which he did his time.\"\n\nIn September 2006, Coronado sent an open letter to supporters from his prison cell in Florence, Arizona, before his release on March 23, 2007. In the letter, he announced his commitment to social change through non-destructive means. Citing his desire to raise his young son without teaching him that \"violence is a necessary evil\", Coronado expressed hope that others in the earth and animal liberation movements would consider more peaceful methods:\n\nIn 2007, Coronado stood trial in San Diego on charges related to his speech in 2003 in Hillcrest. After two days of deliberations, the jury remained deadlocked, and on September 19, 2007, Judge Jeffrey Miller declared a mistrial. Coronado subsequently entered a guilty plea, accepting a deal for a one-year prison term, as a result of which he was sentenced on March 27, 2008 to one year and one day. He was released from El Reno FCI on December 25, 2008. Regarding his guilty plea, he said in an open e-mail on his website:\n\nIn August 2010, Coronado was sentenced to four months in federal prison in Michigan for violating the terms of his probation. Coronado, who had been on parole since his release from prison, joined the social networking site Facebook. He was sentenced for the use of an unauthorized computer, and for \"friending\" former Earth First! co-founder Mike Roselle. Coronado entered the Federal Correctional Institution in Milan, Michigan on September 16. He was released January 14, 2011.\n\n\"Strong Hearts\" was a zine written and published by Coronado during his prison sentence for crimes committed on behalf of the Animal Liberation Front. The zine had a typewriter cut and paste collage format. It was printed on 8½\" by 11\" paper that was folded in half. There were a total of four issues published.\n\nSome of the topics covered included Coronado's experiences with Sea Shepherd Conservation Society, the EZLN, animal rights, and indigenous issues. Excerpts from the zine are included in \"Flaming Arrows: A Compilation Of Works By Rod Coronado\", a collection of Coronado's writings currently published by Warcry Communications.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4041635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4041635", "title": "Russians in Kazakhstan", "text": "Russians in Kazakhstan\n\nThere has been a substantial population of Russian Kazakhstani since the 19th century. Although their numbers have been reduced since the breakup of the Soviet Union, they remain prominent in Kazakh society today. Russians formed a plurality of the Kazakh SSR's population for several decades.\n\nThe first Rus' traders and soldiers began to appear on the northwestern edge of modern Kazakhstan territory in the early 16th century, when Cossacks established the forts that later became the cities of Oral (Ural'sk, est. 1520) and Atyrau (Gur'yev). Ural, Siberian and later Orenburg Cossack Hosts gradually established themselves in parts of northern Kazakhstan. In 1710s and 1720s Siberian Cossacks founded Oskemen (Ust-Kamennaya), Semey (Semipalatinsk) and Pavlodar (Fort Koryakovskiy) as border forts and trading posts.\n\nRussian imperial authorities followed and were able to seize Kazakh territory because the local khanates were preoccupied by a war with Kalmyks (Oirats, Dzungars). Kazakhs were increasingly caught in the middle between the Kalmyks and the Russians. In 1730 Abul Khayr, one of the khans of the Lesser Horde, sought Russian assistance against the stronger Kalmyks, and the Russians in exchange for help gained permanent control of the Lesser Horde as a result of his decision. The Russians conquered the Middle Horde by 1798, but the Great Horde managed to remain independent until the 1820s, when the expanding Kokand Khanate to the south forced the Great Horde khans to choose Russian protection, which seemed to them the lesser of two evils. In 1824, Siberian Cossacks from Omsk founded a fortress on the upper Ishim River named Akmolinsk, which is known today as Astana, capital of Kazakhstan. In the same year they founded the fort of Kokshetau.\n\nIn the 1850s, the construction of Russian forts began in southern Kazakhstan including Fort Shevchenko (Fort Alexandrovsky), Kyzylorda (Fort Petrovsky), Kazaly (Kazalinsk) and Almaty (Verniy).\n\nIn 1863, the Russian Empire created two administrative districts, the Governor-Generalships in Central Asia of Russian Turkestan (the oasis region to the south of the Kazakh steppes and Zhetysu (Semirechye) region) and that of the Steppe ( modern eastern and northern Kazakhstan including the lands of the Siberian and Semiryechensk Cossask Hosts) with their capital at Omsk. The north-west of Kazakhstan was at the time part of Orenburg Governorate. First Governor-General Gerasim Kolpakovsky of the Steppe region (and all his future successors) was also ataman of Siberian Cossacks symbolizing the important role the Cossacks played in the Russian colonization of Kazakh territories. In 1869 Russian settlers founded the town of Aktobe (Aktyubinsk), in 1879 Kostanay. In the 1860s General Mikhail Chernyayev conquered the only towns that existed in Kazakhstan before the Russian conquest Hazrat-e Turkestan, Taraz and Shymkent that belonged to the Khanate of Kokand.\n\nChristianity spread in the predominantly Muslim region together with Russian colonists: the Russian Orthodox Church established a Central Asian bishopric in 1871 with its bishop first residing in Verniy and after 1916 in Tashkent.\nIn the 1890s, many non-Cossack Russian settlers migrated into the fertile lands of northern and eastern Kazakhstan. In 1906 the Trans-Aral Railway between Orenburg and Tashkent was completed, further facilitating Russian and Ukrainian migration to Central Asia.\n\nBetween 1906 and 1912, more than half a million ukraines and russians farms were started in Kazakhstan as part of the reforms of the Russian minister of the interior Petr Stolypin. By 1917 there were close to a million slavs in Kazakhstan, about 30% of the total population. \nAnalysis of data on migrants who arrived during the Stolypin agrarian reform (1906-1912) on the territory of Kazakhstan shows that 83.1% of the settlers were from Ukraine, the rest came from the southern regions of Russia (16.8%).\n\nRussians of Kazakhstan together with other ethnic groups of the region suffered heavily during the Russian Civil War and Collectivisation in the USSR and endured repeated famines and unrest. In 1918-1931 Basmachi Revolt affected areas of southern Kazakh SSR often taking a form of an ethnic conflict between Russian and Ukrainian farmers and native Muslim nomads. Thousands of Russian settlers are thought to have been killed by the Kazakhs in the violence and this was followed by equally bloody reprisals against the nomadic population by the Red Army. In the 1920s and the 1930s, some Russians in Kazakhstan felt discriminated against by Communist authorities who promoted Kazakh language and culture in the region and targeted many local ethnic Russians as either kulaks or Cossacks.\n\nIn 1925, despite local objections, ethnic Russian North Kazakhstan Province as well as parts of Akmola Province, Aktobe Province, West Kazakhstan Province, Pavlodar Province, Kostanay Province and East Kazakhstan Province, formerly considered southern Ural and Siberian oblasts of RSFSR, were transferred to Kazakh ASSR . Local Russians who opposed the land transfers were criticized by the Bolshevik leaders in Moscow as \"chauvinists\". \n\nMany European Soviet citizens and much of Russia's industry were relocated to Kazakhstan during World War II, when Nazi armies threatened to capture all the European industrial centers of the Soviet Union. These migrants founded mining towns which quickly grew to become major industrial centers such as Karaganda (1934), Zhezkazgan (1938), Temirtau (1945) and Ekibastuz (1948). In 1955, the town of Baikonur was built to support the Baikonur Cosmodrome to this day its administered by Russia.\n\nMany more Russians arrived in the years 1953–1965, during the so-called Virgin Lands Campaign of Soviet premier Nikita Khrushchev. Still more settlers came in the late 1960s and 70s, when the government paid bonuses to workers participating in a program to relocate Soviet industry close to the extensive coal, gas, and oil deposits of Central Asia. By 1979 ethnic Russians in Kazakhstan numbered about 5,500,000, almost 40% of the total population.\n\nIn December 1986, Soviet premier Mikhail Gorbachev appointed Gennady Kolbin, with no ties to the republic, as the first secretary of the Central Committee of Communist Party of Kazakh SSR, breaking with a tradition of ethnic Kazakh dominance in the local administration. Following several incidents of ethnic unrest in 1989, Kolbin was replaced by Nursultan Nazarbayev who following the dissolution of the Soviet Union became the president of independent Kazakhstan.\n\nAlthough Nazarbayev is widely credited with peaceful preservation of the delicate inter-ethnic balance in Kazakhstan, hundreds of thousands of Russians left Kazakhstan in the 1990s due the perceived lack of economic opportunities. A number of factors contributed to this situation. Following independence from the Soviet Union, the Kazakh government adopted a policy of developing the state language that sought to affirm the ethnically Kazakh nature of the country and promote Kazakh language and culture. One aspect of this policy was the government's decision to define Kazakhstan as the national state of the ethnically Kazakh people in the country's first constitution in 1993 and again in its second constitution in 1995.\n\nIn 1994 Kazakhstan held its first parliamentary elections since independence. In these elections, Kazakh candidates won a disproportionate number of seats compared to Russian candidates relative to the demographic makeup of the country at the time. Observers attributed the over-representation of Kazakh politicians to electoral tampering carried out by the government, primarily through setting the boundaries of electoral districts. Many Russians interpreted this as an attempt to promote Kazakh domination of the state at the expense of Russian influence. \n\nA major factor that contributed to the alienation of Russians and the increase of inter-ethnic tensions in post-Soviet Kazakhstan was the government's language policy. Following independence, the government adopted Kazakh as the country's official language. Russian was designated as the language of interethnic communication but not given official status. Over the course of the 1990s, the government mandated the instruction of Kazakh in schools and introduced Kazakh language fluency requirements for all public sector jobs. Many Russians objected to these measures and advocated for official bilingualism, which was denied.\n\nThe government's language policy struck many Russians as inequitable, in part because at the time of independence Russian was the de facto language of communication in government and business. Most Kazakhs were already fluent in Russian, while very few Russians were fluent in Kazakh. This policy had the effect of excluding the vast majority of Russian-speakers from some of the most coveted professional occupations. These various developments contributed to an increasing sense of marginalization and exclusion among Russians in Kazakhstan. Many Russians felt that there were limited opportunities for them and their children in the country, as a result of the government's new linguistic and educational policies. These and other grievances were major causes of the massive emigration of Russians from Kazakhstan that took place in the 1990s.\nBy 1999, the number of Russians in Kazakhstan dropped to 4,479,618 people, roughly 30% of Kazakhstan's population. Emigration from Kazakhstan reached its peak in 1994, when 344,112 people emigrated from Kazakhstan to Russia. Since then, it has consistently decreased, perhaps because those most eager to leave or with the resources to leave have already done so. At the beginning of his presidency in 2000, Vladimir Putin met with leaders of the Russian community in Kazakhstan who explained to him the situation they faced in the country. This meeting resulted in a proposal of a massive departure of the remainder of Russians from Kazakhstan. It was suggested that these migrants would revitalize depopulated areas of central Russia and provide a counterweight to the demographic decline of Russians within the Russian Federation.\n\nHowever, support for the idea has since evaporated and the Russian government has not provided the resources necessary for massive repatriation. The majority of Russians who emigrated from Kazakhstan were Russians born in Russia who had moved to Kazakhstan later in life, primarily for professional reasons. Most of this group resided in urban areas and tended to be more highly educated. In contrast, Russians who were born in the country and whose families have lived in Kazakhstan for two to three generations were far less likely to emigrate. This group is concentrated in rural regions, especially in the northern part of the country. In the 1990s, this group made up two thirds of Kazakhstan's Russian population but only one third of the migrants who left the country.\n\nRussians are still an influential socio-political group in Kazakhstan, and they remain active in Kazakhstan's public, military, cultural and economic life. Also the Kazakh language is the state language, while Russian is now also officially used as an equal language to Kazakh in Kazakhstan's public institutions. Kazakhstan is also part of the Eurasian Economic Union with Russia.\n\nNumber and share of Russians according to the census over the years by regions:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "123433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=123433", "title": "Shays' Rebellion", "text": "Shays' Rebellion\n\nShays Rebellion was an armed uprising in Massachusetts, mostly in and around Springfield during 1786 and 1787. American Revolutionary War veteran Daniel Shays led four thousand rebels (called Shaysites) in a protest against perceived economic and civil rights injustices. Shays was a farmhand from Massachusetts at the beginning of the Revolutionary War; he joined the Continental Army, saw action at the Battles of Lexington and Concord, Battle of Bunker Hill, and Battles of Saratoga, and was eventually wounded in action.\n\nIn 1787, Shays' rebels marched on the United States' Armory at Springfield in an unsuccessful attempt to seize its weaponry and overthrow the government. The federal government found itself unable to finance troops to put down the rebellion, and it was consequently put down by the Massachusetts State militia and a privately funded local militia. The widely held view was that the Articles of Confederation needed to be reformed as the country's governing document, and the events of the rebellion served as a catalyst for the Constitutional Convention and the creation of the new government.\n\nThe shock of Shays' Rebellion drew retired General George Washington back into public life, leading to his two terms as the United States' first President. There is still debate among scholars concerning the rebellion's influence on the Constitution and its ratification.\n\nThe economy during the American Revolutionary War was largely subsistence agriculture in the rural parts of New England, particularly in the hill towns of central and western Massachusetts. Some residents in these areas had few assets beyond their land, and they bartered with one another for goods and services. In lean times, farmers might obtain goods on credit from suppliers in local market towns who would be paid when times were better. Conversely, there was a market economy in the more economically developed coastal areas of Massachusetts Bay and in the fertile Connecticut River Valley, driven by the activities of wholesale merchants dealing with Europe and the West Indies. The state government was dominated by this merchant class.\n\nWhen the Revolutionary War ended in 1783, the European business partners of Massachusetts merchants refused to extend lines of credit to them and insisted that they pay for goods with hard currency, despite the continent-wide shortage of such currency. Merchants began to demand the same from their local business partners, including those operating in the market towns in the state's interior. Many of these merchants passed on this demand to their customers, although Governor John Hancock did not impose hard currency demands on poorer borrowers and refused to actively prosecute the collection of delinquent taxes. The rural farming population was generally unable to meet the demands of merchants and the civil authorities, and some began to lose their land and other possessions when they were unable to fulfill their debt and tax obligations. This led to strong resentments against tax collectors and the courts, where creditors obtained judgments against debtors, and where tax collectors obtained judgments authorizing property seizures. A farmer identified as \"Plough Jogger\" summarized the situation at a meeting convened by aggrieved commoners:\n\nI have been greatly abused, have been obliged to do more than my part in the war, been loaded with class rates, town rates, province rates, Continental rates and all rates ... been pulled and hauled by sheriffs, constables and collectors, and had my cattle sold for less than they were worth ... The great men are going to get all we have and I think it is time for us to rise and put a stop to it, and have no more courts, nor sheriffs, nor collectors nor lawyers.\n\nVeterans had received little pay during the war and faced added difficulty collecting pay owed them from the State or the Congress of the Confederation, and some soldiers began to organize protests against these oppressive economic conditions. In 1780, Daniel Shays resigned from the army unpaid and went home to find himself in court for non-payment of debts. He soon realized that he was not alone in his inability to pay his debts and began organizing for debt relief.\n\nOne early protest against the government was led by Job Shattuck of Groton, Massachusetts in 1782, who organized residents to physically prevent tax collectors from doing their work. A second, larger-scale protest took place in Uxbridge, Massachusetts on the Rhode Island border on February 3, 1783 when a mob seized property that had been confiscated by a constable and returned it to its owners. Governor Hancock ordered the sheriff to suppress these actions.\n\nMost rural communities attempted to use the legislative process to gain relief. Petitions and proposals were repeatedly submitted to the state legislature to issue paper currency, which would depreciate the currency and make it possible to pay a high-value debt with lower-valued paper. The merchants were opposed to the idea, including James Bowdoin, since they stood to lose from such measures, and the proposals were repeatedly rejected. \n\nGovernor Hancock resigned in early 1785 citing health reasons, though some suggested that he was anticipating trouble. Bowdoin had repeatedly lost to Hancock in earlier elections, but he was elected governor that year—and matters became more severe. He stepped up civil actions to collect back taxes, and the legislature exacerbated the situation by levying an additional property tax to raise funds for the state's portion of foreign debt payments. Even comparatively conservative commentators such as John Adams observed that these levies were \"heavier than the People could bear\".\n\nProtests in rural Massachusetts turned into direct action in August 1786 after the state legislature adjourned without considering the many petitions that had been sent to Boston. On August 29, a well-organized force of protestors formed in Northampton, Massachusetts and successfully prevented the county court from sitting. The leaders of this force proclaimed that they were seeking relief from the burdensome judicial processes that were depriving the people of their land and possessions. They called themselves \"Regulators\", a reference to the Regulator movement of North Carolina which sought to reform corrupt practices in the late 1760s.\n\nGovernor Bowdoin issued a proclamation on September 2 denouncing such mob action, but he took no military measures beyond planning a militia response to future actions. The court was then shut down in Worcester, Massachusetts by similar action on September 5, but the county militia refused to turn out, as it was composed mainly of men sympathetic to the protestors. Governors of the neighboring states acted decisively, calling out the militia to hunt down the ringleaders in their own states after the first such protests. Matters were resolved without violence in Rhode Island because the \"country party\" gained control of the legislature in 1786 and enacted measures forcing its merchants to trade debt instruments for devalued currency. Boston's merchants were concerned by this, especially Bowdoin who held more than £3,000 in Massachusetts notes.\n\nDaniel Shays had participated in the Northampton action and began to take a more active role in the uprising in November, though he firmly denied that he was one of its leaders. The Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts indicted 11 leaders of the rebellion as \"disorderly, riotous, and seditious persons\". The court was scheduled to meet next in Springfield, Massachusetts on September 26, and Shays organized an attempt to shut it down in Northampton, while Luke Day organized an attempt in Springfield. They were anticipated by William Shepard, the local militia commander, who began gathering government-supporting militia the Saturday before the court was to sit, and he had 300 men protecting the Springfield courthouse by opening time. Shays and Day were able to recruit a similar number but chose only to demonstrate, exercising their troops outside of Shepard's lines rather than attempting to seize the building. The judges first postponed hearings and then adjourned on the 28th without hearing any cases. Shepard withdrew his force (which had grown to some 800 men) to the Springfield Armory, which was rumored to be the target of the protestors.\n\nProtests were also successful in shutting down courts in Great Barrington, Concord, and Taunton, Massachusetts in September and October. James Warren wrote to John Adams on October 22, \"We are now in a state of Anarchy and Confusion bordering on Civil War.\" Courts were able to meet in the larger towns and cities, but they required protection of the militia which Bowdoin called out for the purpose. Governor Bowdoin commanded the legislature to \"vindicate the insulted dignity of government\". Samuel Adams claimed that foreigners (\"British emissaries\") were instigating treason among the commoners, and he helped draw up a Riot Act and a resolution suspending \"habeas corpus\" in order to permit the authorities to keep people in jail without trial. \n\nAdams proposed a new legal distinction that rebellion in a republic should be punished by execution. The legislature also moved to make some concessions that upset farmers, saying that certain old taxes could now be paid in goods instead of hard currency. These measures were followed by one prohibiting speech critical of the government and offering pardons to protestors willing to take an oath of allegiance. These legislative actions were unsuccessful in quelling the protests, and the suspension of \"habeas corpus\" alarmed many.\n\nWarrants were issued for the arrest of several of the protest ringleaders, and a posse of some 300 men rode to Groton on November 28 to arrest Job Shattuck and other rebel leaders in the area. Shattuck was chased down and arrested on the 30th and was wounded by a sword slash in the process. This action and the arrest of other protest leaders in the eastern parts of the state angered those in the west, and they began to organize an overthrow of the state government. \"The seeds of war are now sown\", wrote one correspondent in Shrewsbury, and by mid-January rebel leaders spoke of smashing the \"tyrannical government of Massachusetts\".\n\nThe federal government had been unable to recruit soldiers for the army because of a lack of funding, so Massachusetts leaders determined to act independently. On January 4, 1787, Governor Bowdoin proposed creating a privately funded militia army. Former Continental Army General Benjamin Lincoln solicited funds and raised more than £6,000 from more than 125 merchants by the end of January. The 3,000 militiamen who were recruited into this army were almost entirely from the eastern counties of Massachusetts, and they marched to Worcester on January 19.\n\nWhile the government forces assembled, Shays and Day and other rebel leaders in the west organized their forces establishing regional regimental organizations that were run by democratically elected committees. Their first major target was the federal armory in Springfield. General Shepard had taken possession of the armory under orders from Governor Bowdoin, and he used its arsenal to arm a militia force of 1,200. He had done this despite the fact that the armory was federal property, not state, and he did not have permission from Secretary at War Henry Knox.\n\nThe insurgents were organized into three major groups and intended to surround and attack the armory simultaneously. Shays had one group east of Springfield near Palmer, Luke Day had a second force across the Connecticut River in West Springfield, and the force under Eli Parsons was to the north at Chicopee. The rebels had planned their assault for January 25, but Day changed this at the last minute and sent a message to Shays indicating that he would not be ready to attack until the 26th. Day's message was intercepted by Shepard's men, so the militia of Shays and Parsons approached the armory on the 25th not knowing that they would have no support from the west; instead, they found Shepard's militia waiting for them. Shepard first ordered warning shots fired over the heads of Shays' men, and then he ordered two cannons to fire grape shot. Four Shaysites were killed and 20 wounded. There was no musket fire from either side, and the rebel advance collapsed. Most of the rebel forces fled north, both Shay's men and Day's men, and they eventually regrouped at Amherst, Massachusetts.\n\nGeneral Lincoln immediately began marching west from Worcester with the 3,000 men that had been mustered. The rebels moved generally north and east to avoid him, eventually establishing a camp at Petersham, Massachusetts. They raided the shops of local merchants for supplies along the way and took some of the merchants hostage. Lincoln pursued them and reached Pelham, Massachusetts on February 2, some from Petersham. He led his militia on a forced march to Petersham through a bitter snowstorm on the night of February 3–4, arriving early in the morning. They surprised the rebel camp so thoroughly that the rebels scattered \"without time to call in their out parties or even their guards\". Lincoln claimed to capture 150 men but none of them were officers, and historian Leonard Richards has questioned the veracity of the report. Most of the leadership escaped north into New Hampshire and Vermont, where they were sheltered despite repeated demands that they be returned to Massachusetts for trial.\n\nLincoln's march marked the end of large-scale organized resistance. Ringleaders who eluded capture fled to neighboring states, and pockets of local resistance continued. Some rebel leaders approached Lord Dorchester for assistance, the British governor of the Province of Quebec who reportedly promised assistance in the form of Mohawk warriors led by Joseph Brant. Dorchester's proposal was vetoed in London, however, and no assistance came to the rebels. The same day that Lincoln arrived at Petersham, the state legislature passed bills authorizing a state of martial law and giving the governor broad powers to act against the rebels. The bills also authorized state payments to reimburse Lincoln and the merchants who had funded the army, and authorized the recruitment of additional militia. On February 12, the legislature passed the Disqualification Act to prevent a legislative response by rebel sympathizers. This bill forbade any acknowledged rebels from holding a variety of elected and appointed offices.\n\nMost of Lincoln's army melted away in late February as enlistments expired, and he commanded only 30 men at a base in Pittsfield by the end of the month. In the meantime, some 120 rebels had regrouped in New Lebanon, New York, and they crossed the border on February 27, marching first on Stockbridge, Massachusetts, a major market town in the southwestern corner of the state. They raided the shops of merchants and the homes of merchants and local professionals. This came to the attention of Brigadier John Ashley, who mustered a force of some 80 men and caught up with the rebels in nearby Sheffield late in the day for the bloodiest encounter of the rebellion: 30 rebels were wounded (one mortally), at least one government soldier was killed, and many were wounded. Ashley was further reinforced after the encounter, and he reported taking 150 prisoners.\n\nFour thousand people signed confessions acknowledging participation in the events of the rebellion in exchange for amnesty. Several hundred participants were eventually indicted on charges relating to the rebellion, but most of these were pardoned under a general amnesty that only excluded a few ringleaders. Eighteen men were convicted and sentenced to death, but most of these were overturned on appeal, pardoned, or had the sentences commuted. John Bly and Charles Rose, however, were hanged on December 6, 1787. They were also accused of common-law crime, as both were looters. \n\nShays was pardoned in 1788 and he returned to Massachusetts from hiding in the Vermont woods. He was vilified by the Boston press, who painted him as an archetypal anarchist opposed to the government. He later moved to the Conesus, New York area where he died poor and obscure in 1825.\n\nThe crushing of the rebellion and the harsh terms of reconciliation imposed by the Disqualification Act all worked against Governor Bowdoin politically. He received few votes from the rural parts of the state and was trounced by John Hancock in the gubernatorial election of 1787. The military victory was tempered by tax changes in subsequent years. The legislature cut taxes and placed a moratorium on debts and also refocused state spending away from interest payments, resulting in a 30-percent decline in the value of Massachusetts securities as those payments fell in arrears.\n\nVermont was an unrecognized independent republic that had been seeking independent statehood from New York's claims to the territory. It became an unexpected beneficiary of the rebellion due to sheltering the rebel ringleaders. Alexander Hamilton broke from other New Yorkers, including major landowners with claims on Vermont territory, calling for the state to recognize and support Vermont's bid for admission to the union. He cited Vermont's de facto independence and its ability to cause trouble by providing support to the discontented from neighboring states, and he introduced legislation that broke the impasse between New York and Vermont. Vermonters responded favorably to the overture, publicly pushing Eli Parsons and Luke Day out of the state (but quietly continuing to support others). Vermont became the fourteenth state after negotiations with New York and the passage of the new constitution.\n\nThomas Jefferson was serving as ambassador to France at the time and refused to be alarmed by Shays' Rebellion. He argued in a letter to James Madison on January 30, 1787 that occasional rebellion serves to preserve freedoms. \"The tree of liberty must be refreshed from time to time with the blood of patriots and tyrants. It is its natural manure.\" In contrast, George Washington had been calling for constitutional reform for many years, and he wrote in a letter to Henry Lee, \"You talk, my good sir, of employing influence to appease the present tumults in Massachusetts. I know not where that influence is to be found, or, if attainable, that it would be a proper remedy for the disorders. Influence is not government. Let us have a government by which our lives, liberties, and properties will be secured, or let us know the worst at once.\"\n\nAt the time of the rebellion, the weaknesses of the federal government as constituted under the Articles of Confederation were apparent to many. A vigorous debate was going on throughout the states on the need for a stronger central government, with Federalists arguing for the idea, and Anti-Federalists opposing them. Historical opinion is divided on what sort of role the rebellion played in the formation and later ratification of the United States Constitution, although most scholars agree that it played some role, at least temporarily drawing some anti-Federalists to the strong government side. \n\nBy early 1785, many influential merchants and political leaders were already agreed that a stronger central government was needed. Shortly after Shay's rebellion broke out, delegates from five states met in Annapolis, Maryland from September 11-14, 1786, and they concluded that vigorous steps were needed to reform the federal government, but they disbanded because of a lack of full representation and authority, calling for a convention of all the states to be held in Philadelphia in May 1787. Historian Robert Feer notes that several prominent figures had hoped that the convention would fail, requiring a larger-scale convention, and French diplomat Louis-Guillaume Otto thought that the convention was intentionally broken off early to achieve this end.\n\nIn early 1787, John Jay wrote that the rural disturbances and the inability of the central government to fund troops in response made \"the inefficiency of the Federal government more and more manifest\". Henry Knox observed that the uprising in Massachusetts clearly influenced local leaders who had previously opposed a strong federal government. Historian David Szatmary writes that the timing of the rebellion \"convinced the elites of sovereign states that the proposed gathering at Philadelphia must take place\". Some states delayed choosing delegates to the proposed convention, including Massachusetts, in part because it resembled the \"extra-legal\" conventions organized by the protestors before the rebellion became violent.\n\nThe convention that met in Philadelphia was dominated by strong-government advocates. Delegate Oliver Ellsworth of Connecticut argued that because the people could not be trusted (as exemplified by Shays' Rebellion), the members of the federal House of Representatives should be chosen by state legislatures, not by popular vote. The example of Shays' Rebellion may also have been influential in the addition of language to the constitution concerning the ability of states to manage domestic violence, and their ability to demand the return of individuals from other states for trial.\n\nThe rebellion also played a role in the discussion of a number of the executives. While mindful of tyranny, delegates of the Constitutional Convention thought that the single executive would be more effective in responding to national disturbances.\n\nFederalists cited the rebellion as an example of the confederation government's weaknesses, while opponents such as Elbridge Gerry thought that a federal response to the rebellion would have been even worse than that of the state. (Gerry, a merchant speculator and Massachusetts delegate from Essex County, was one of the few convention delegates who refused to sign the new constitution, although his reasons for doing so did not stem from the rebellion.)\n\nWhen the constitution had been drafted, Massachusetts was viewed by Federalists as a state that might not ratify it, because of widespread anti-Federalist sentiment in the rural parts of the state. Massachusetts Federalists, including Henry Knox, were active in courting swing votes in the debates leading up to the state's ratifying convention in 1788. When the vote was taken on February 6, 1788, representatives of rural communities involved in the rebellion voted against ratification by a wide margin, but the day was carried by a coalition of merchants, urban elites, and market town leaders. The state ratified the constitution by a vote of 187 to 168.\n\nHistorians are divided on the impact the rebellion had on the ratification debates. Robert Feer notes that major Federalist pamphleteers rarely mentioned it, and that some anti-Federalists used the fact that Massachusetts survived the rebellion as evidence that a new constitution was unnecessary. Leonard Richards counters that publications like the \"Pennsylvania Gazette\" explicitly tied anti-Federalist opinion to the rebel cause, calling opponents of the new constitution \"Shaysites\" and the Federalists \"Washingtonians\". \n\nDavid Szatmary argues that debate in some states was affected, particularly in Massachusetts, where the rebellion had a polarizing effect. Richards records Henry Jackson's observation that opposition to ratification in Massachusetts was motivated by \"that cursed spirit of insurgency\", but that broader opposition in other states originated in other constitutional concerns expressed by Elbridge Gerry, who published a widely distributed pamphlet outlining his concerns about the vagueness of some of the powers granted in the constitution and its lack of a Bill of Rights.\n\nThe military powers enshrined in the constitution were soon put to use by President George Washington. After the passage by the United States Congress of the Whiskey Act, protest against the taxes it imposed began in western Pennsylvania. The protests escalated and Washington led federal and state militia to put down what is now known as the Whiskey Rebellion.\n\nThe events and people of the uprising are commemorated in the towns where they lived and those where events took place. Sheffield erected a memorial (pictured above) marking the site of the \"last battle\", and Pelham memorialized Daniel Shays. US Route 202, which runs through Pelham, is called the Daniel Shays Highway. A statue of General Shepard was erected in his hometown of Westfield.\n\nIn the town of Petersham, Massachusetts, a memorial was erected in 1927 by the New England Society of Brooklyn, New York. The memorial commemorates General Benjamin Lincoln, who raised 3,000 troops and routed the rebellion on February 4, 1787. It ends with the line, \"Obedience to the law is true liberty.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9794307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9794307", "title": "Solidarism", "text": "Solidarism\n\nSolidarism or solidarist can refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "51594410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51594410", "title": "Spreadability", "text": "Spreadability\n\nIn media studies, spreadability is the wide distribution and circulation of information on media platforms. The term was coined by Henry Jenkins in the book \"Spreadable Media\". Spreadability contrasts with the \"stickiness\" of aggregating media in centralized places.\n\nThe original copy of the (textual, visual, audio) information does not need to be replicated perfectly in order to display the characteristics of spreadability, rather the original can be manipulated or maintained in its original form and still be a product of this process. Simply, this concept refers to the capability of media being spread. \n\nSpreadability was coined by Henry Jenkins, a media scholar known for his work in communication studies. It \"refers to the potential – both technical and cultural – for audiences to share content for their own purposes, sometimes with the permission of rights holders, sometimes against their wishes\". It is contextualised in the media landscape due to the strong connection with quick and easy sharing practices which have been enabled by media platforms. After Jenkins coined this term (in a rather optimistic context) many authors such as Christian Fuchs have interpreted this movement through a more pessimistic lens.\n\nSpreadability is directly linked to the participatory culture which Jenkins also coined. Participatory culture is the backbone to spreadability as it depicts an image of people who are \"shaping, sharing, reframing, and remixing media content\". This culture is based on grass-root audience practices online. In other words, any user of a platform (that provides sharing possibilities) is emancipated as an individual who can informally, and instantaneously share information online. It is also important how the participatory culture and the act of sharing online \"tends to be a communal act of giving and taking that links us to other people\".\n\nJenkins situates spreadability in a particular context. This concept is particularly contextualised in the social media era and the Web 2.0 culture. These two transformations can be considered prerequisites for the idea of spreadibility to exist and for spreadable media to adopt such mechanisms to achieve spreadability.\n\nThis new culture began at the beginning of the second millennium when the internet became an interactive space. This means there was a need for a platform or platforms where users could contribute and share information. Belk says this is how the \"Internet and especially Web 2.0 has brought about many new ways of sharing as well as facilitating older forms of sharing on a large-scale\".\n\nThere is a strong emphasis on content production, but more concretely, user-generated content production. This is where the importance of social media (an affect of the Web 2.0) is relevant. Spreadable media is only possible when there is a platform where the content can be shared. As Jenkins puts it, \"spreadability emphasizes producing content in easy-to-share formats […] which makes it easier to spread videos [or any other material] across the Internet, and encouraging access points to that content in a variety of places\". Furthermore, as a result of this sharing community, the public has become more individually and collectively literate about social platforms and their ability to construct identities online.\n\nTherefore, there are a handful of prerequisites that allow media to become spreadable, including, the Internet enabling power to the user, platforms incorporating share buttons or other means to easily pass on media to a specific audience, and for the public to have the required intelligence to carry out these actions. Moreover, there are also specific characteristics which allow certain platforms to have spreadable media on them.\n\nThere are special characteristics that help to define what spreadability actually is. One key movement that underlines all the other characteristics is the change from distribution to circulation. This means there is a community where individuals exchange 'meaningful bytes'.\n\nBelow is a table that describes how certain elements provided on a media platform engage the audience or viewer into becoming involved in the spreadability of information. The descriptions have been extracted from Jenkins, Ford & Green 2013.\nOne major aspect of sharing media is the loss of control of ownership. It is no longer a black and white picture where one rule can determine this distinction. Hemetsberger expands on this issue in her chapter \"Let The Source Be With You\". She says how when one engages in sharing information with others, they give up their ownership. She says it is \"access over ownership\". This is contextualised in a positive environment where individuals can profit from the resources others can provide and are not obligated to be self-dependent. For example, carsharing illustrates how the practice of sharing can be communal act of giving and taking that does not explicitly require ownership. Another example is how one may upload a picture onto social media such as Facebook and by doing so, Facebook archives this information. What Facebook, or any other media platform does with this information which the user provides is sometimes not transparent although we agree to the terms and conditions that explain this.\n\nSharing can therefore save time and money for individuals who profit from these practices. \"Profit\" in general has monetary connotations attached to it but in this context it does not need to refer to an exchange of money. This also connects to the type of sharing that is used. Hemetsberger names three types of sharing; \"sharing in\", \"sharing out\" and \"cross-sharing\". It is especially through \"sharing in\" that leads to a feeling of belonging to a group or community. For example, when we share a cake between several people, there is a bond forming between those involved. \"It is not the only way in which we connect with others, but it is a potential powerful one that creates feelings of solidarity and bonding\" that partaking in such practices creates.\n\nAlthough Hemetsberger speaks of ownership, Christian Fuchs takes a more negative stance on the subject in relation to sharing practices. He relates Wikipedia to the idea of communism and participatory democracy. He argues that \"Wikipedians are prototypical contemporary communists\" where those contributing to, as well as those who use this platform are guilty. In other words, three contributing factors make those interacting with Wikipedia contemporary communists.\n\nSpreadability is possible through the use of media. A “medium” is any tool that can be used by anybody to deliver various forms of media (any information, a picture, etc.) to an individual or a group of people at any given point in time. As one could infer from the name, a “medium,” is essentially between two things (e.g. a person listening to the radio in their car). Media content is produced, and/or ‘altered,’ and then circulated on the media platform(s). According to Karcher, the three main types of spreadable media are “from scratch (original), altered (changed in someway before being circulated), and ‘as-is’ (circulated before any alterations are made).” No matter the involvement/contribution an individual takes part in when it comes to spreadable media, every aspect is extremely valuable because every person involved works together either directly or indirectly. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3695250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3695250", "title": "Stardust@home", "text": "Stardust@home\n\nStardust@home is a citizen science project that encourages volunteers to search images for tiny interstellar dust impacts. The project began providing data for analysis on August 1, 2006.\n\nFrom February to May 2000 and from August to December 2002, the Stardust spacecraft exposed its \"Stardust Interstellar Dust Collector\" (SIDC), a set of aerogel blocks about 0.1 m² (1 ft²) in total size, to interstellar dust. The collector media consist of 130 blocks of 1 and 3 cm thick silica-based aerogel mounted in aluminum cells.\n\nIn order to spot impacts of interstellar dust, just over 700,000 individual fields of the aerogel will have to be visually inspected using large magnification. Each field, which is composed of 40 images, will thus be termed a \"focus movie\". Stardust@home will try to achieve this by distributing the work among volunteers. Unlike distributed computing projects, it does not try to harness the processing power of many computers. It uses them only to distribute and present the tasks to humans. This approach is similar to the earlier Clickworkers project to find Martian craters.\n\nParticipants must pass a test to qualify to register to participate. After registering and passing the test, participants have access to the web-based \"virtual microscope\" which allows them to search each field for interstellar dust impacts by focusing up and down with a focus control.\n\nAs an incentive for volunteers, the first five phases of Stardust@home allowed the first individual to discover a particular interstellar dust particle to name it. Also, the discoverer could appear as a co-author on any scientific paper announcing the discovery of the particle.\n\nAs of February 2013, twelve papers summarizing the results of the Stardust Interstellar Preliminary Examination (ISPE) have been submitted to Meteoritics and Planetary Science and are undergoing the peer-review process.\n\nStardust@home has been divided into six phases. Phase I became publicly available on Aug. 1, 2006, Phase II in August 2007, Phase III in March 2010, Phase IV in July 2011, Phase V in May 2012, and Phase VI in June 2013.\n\nPhase VI includes over 30,000 new \"movies\" representing eight aerogel tiles. The scoring method was also upgraded and, unlike the other phases, Stardust@home can no longer guarantee first finders of particles will be listed as co-authors on any scientific papers written about the discoveries.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2960368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2960368", "title": "Tebu languages", "text": "Tebu languages\n\nTebu is a small family of two Saharan languages, consisting of Daza and Teda. It is spoken by the two groups of Toubou people, the \"Daza\" and \"Teda\".\n\nTebu is predominantly spoken in Chad and in southern Libya by around 580,000 people. Daza and Teda have an estimated 537,000 and 42,500 speakers, respectively.\n"}
{"id": "4725727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4725727", "title": "Twelfth Council of Toledo", "text": "Twelfth Council of Toledo\n\nThe Twelfth Council of Toledo was initiated on 9 January 681 by the new King Erwig. One of its first actions was to release the population from the laws of Wamba and recognise Erwig, anathematising all who opposed him. It was attended by thirty eight bishops, four abbots, and five palatine officials. \n\nThe council recognised the right of the metropolitan archbishop of Toledo to consecrate all bishops appointed by the king, even if they were outside his own province. Thus was born the primacy of the Toledan diocese over all Spain. \n\nThe council implemented diverse measures against the Jews, enacting against them twenty-eight laws. The bishops ordered the reading in all the churches of the canons against the Jews and conserved all acts of abjuration and conversion of Jews, prohibiting \"conversos\" from returning to Judaism. The canons were first read in the church of Santa María in Toledo on 27 January. Otherwise, the persecution of Jews was isolated to confiscation of goods. \n\nThe council, at the request of Erwig, revised the \"Forum Iudicum\" of Reccesuinth to right perceived injustices and contradictions. The revised law came into effect on 21 October. Laws against violence to slaves were suppressed. The general trend of all modifications and new legislation was in favour of the nobles and their privileges. \n\nIn religious matters, the bishops dealt with penance, death, excommunication, the number of sees, the election of bishops, the mass, and clerical discipline. The nomination of bishops by the kings was forbidden (despite tacit recognition of it in fact). The date of provincial synods was fixed on 1 November every year. The previous date had been in May, since the Fourth Council. The provinces were ordered to hold at least one synod per annum. The church of Galicia was sanctioned in its treatment of slaves (see Tenth Council of Toledo) and the extant paganism of the province condemned. \n\nThe short council terminated on 25 January.\n\n"}
{"id": "11072628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11072628", "title": "UK Hand Knitting Association", "text": "UK Hand Knitting Association\n\nThe UK Hand Knitting Association (UKHKA) is a not-for-profit British organisation dedicated to promoting hand knitting in the UK. Through a variety of initiatives and the assistance of a nationwide network of volunteers who pass on their skills, the UKHKA focus on ensuring a vibrant future for all aspects of yarn crafts.\n\nThe UK Hand Knitting Association is dedicated to promoting the craft of hand knitting. The Association operates also across the Internet, and distributes information about knitting and crochet basic techniques, books, courses, knitting patterns and more.\n\nAt major craft shows and other events volunteers provide one to one tuition to encourage newcomers to learn yarn craft skills.\n\nInformation about craft shows and the basic techniques involved in hand knitting and crochet, along with local knitting groups, books, courses, knitting patterns and more, are poublicised on the Association's website. Financial institutions suggest that retail outlets for knitting paraphernalia should become members of the Association.\n\nThe UKHKA Board Members are major distributors of yarn and related products in the UK, while the Associate Members are event organisers and craft magazine publishers.\n\nThe UKHKA (formerly The British Hand Knitting Confederation (BHKC)) was formed in 1991 when the Hand Knitting Association (HKA) merged with the British Hand Knitting Association (BHKA).\n\nInitiatives to Raise the Profile of Hand Knitting:\n\nCraft Club, co sponsored by the Crafts Council and the NFWI, is a national campaign to pass on yarn craft skills to newcomers of all ages. Craft Club encourages the setting up of after-school clubs, youth groups and extends to the wider community in public venues such as museums, art galleries and libraries.\n\n\nKnit 1 Hook 1 Pass It On is a national initiative that encourages volunteers to pass on their skills. All those who knit and crochet can take part in this campaign to ensure their skills are passed on to future generations. The UKHKA has a Knit 1 Hook 1 Pass It On stand at numerous craft shows across the UK each year. The website has details on these shows. Volunteers have said of the experience: ‘It was my pleasure to help out and I will definitely be volunteering again at some point’ and ‘I really enjoyed my helping role, although I think I learned more than I taught’.\n\n\nThe KTAs were introduced in 2003, to showcase the talent of students graduating in knitted textiles across the UK. This celebration of knitting highlights the best in design innovation and creativity, and a full line up of each year’s finalists can be found on the website. The yearly awards are judged on originality, overall concept and the innovative use of technique, yarns, materials and colour. The diversity of the exhibition dispels preconceptions as the finalists show that the knitted stitch has no limits. The 2011 Finalists commented ‘I had a great time and met a lot of interesting like-minded people. It was a huge boost to my confidence’ and ‘It’s been a fantastic opportunity that I've really enjoyed’. All the finalists’ work and contact details are fully showcased on the UKHKA website.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50568194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50568194", "title": "Voices of the Poor", "text": "Voices of the Poor\n\nVoices of the Poor was an effort in the 1990s through 2000 by the World Bank to collect the experiences of the poor across the world. The name is also used for the reports that were eventually published from the effort. The effort consisted of two parts: primary research using participatory poverty assessment (PPA) in 23 countries, and reviews of existing PPAs and other participatory research. The project was originally called \"Consultations with the Poor\", but was changed to \"Voices of the Poor\" in late 1999.\n\nVoices of the Poor also informed the 2000 World Development Report.\n\nThe three volumes of books published as part of the project are:\n\n\nThe key findings of this study include the following:\n\n\nWriting in 2003, Hiroki Nogami praised Voices of the Poor for its use of qualitative analyses, but noted that the study did not sufficiently take into account how the opinions of the poor change with time and location.\n\n"}
{"id": "30503465", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30503465", "title": "Wali Khan Babar", "text": "Wali Khan Babar\n\nWali Khan Babar (Urdu, ; 5 April 1982 – 13 January 2011) was a Pakistani journalist working for GEO News who was killed by gunmen in the Liaquatabad area of Karachi. His murderers Saulat Mirza and Faisal Mota (who are target killers of MQM) are sentenced to death by the court on March 10, 2015. According to the Committee to Protect Journalists, Babar was the first journalist it had confirmed killed in a work-related death in 2011. Pakistan was the deadliest country for journalists in 2010. Despite the murders of several people associated with the investigation and the death of an accused, in March 2014 four people were convicted and sentenced to life imprisonment for the murder, and two others were given death sentences \"in absentia\".\n\nBabar briefly joined GEO English in 2007 before moving to the mainstream GEO News channel in 2008. He was active in the journalism field for four years.\n\nWali Khan Babar was an ex-provincial leader and lifelong worker of PSF (Pashtun Student Federation).\n\nFrom April 2011 till November 2012, various media outlets reported that all five eyewitnesses to the investigation of Babar's case had been murdered in cold blood one by one. The victims included two policemen, a brother of one police officer and an informer linked to developments in the case. All had been shot dead, mostly in drive-by shootings. The Last victim of the cold blooded had already identifies 4 out of 5 murderers of Wali Khan Babar and was called out and shot dead outside his home.\n\nHe was buried amid protests organised by the Balochistan Union of Journalists and Pakhtun-khwa Milli Awami Party over his death. Journalists in other parts of the country also staged demonstrations, including outside the Karachi Press Club; in Peshawar, gatherings were organised outside the Peshawar Press Club and in Peshawar Cantonment. Scores of protesters expressed anger against the government for \"shielding professional killers\" and accused the Karachi-based Muttahida Qaumi Movement (MQM) for the killing, saying the party was perpetrating \"ethnic cleansing of Pakhtuns, Baloch, Sindhis and the Punjabis\" although MQM leader Altaf Hussain denounced the killing. In the meantime, the Council of Pakistan Newspaper Editors termed Wali Khan as a \"Martyr of Journalism.\" The Pashtun Awami National Party announced a three-day mourning period while the Pakistan Federal Union of Journalists (PFUJ) declared a black day during which black flags were hoisted above media centres, press clubs and journalist offices. In a related development, the Human Rights Commission of Pakistan called Babar's killing a \"premeditated murder.\"\n\nThe killing was condemned by President Asif Ali Zardari, interior minister Rehman Malik and Pakistan Muslim League (N) leaders Chaudhry Shujaat Hussain and Chaudhry Pervaiz Elahi. In a separate statement, former cricketer and Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf chairman Imran Khan expressed his condolences and questioned the government's seriousness over addressing target killings. The Provincial Assembly of Khyber Pakhtunkhwa ordered a judicial inquiry following the news. An FIR was accordingly filed by the police to investigate the murder. A special segment was presented on his killing in Hamid Mir's current affairs program \"Capital Talk\".\n\nOn World Press Freedom Day, 2011, participants of a forum at the National Press Club and Newseum in Washington, D.C., called attention to world governments who licensed to punish news organisations that were critical of the government, as was the case for Pakistan that had used licensing to punish Geo News, for which Wali Khan had worked.\n\nWali Khan was an ethnic Pashtun belonging to the Babar tribe. He hailed from the town of Zhob in Balochistan and was a vocal critic of the state's policies pertaining to the Balochistan conflict.\n\nHe held a master's degree in international relations from the University of Karachi.\n\nBefore his death, he resided in Karachi's North Nazimabad suburb.\n\nHe left behind a widow mother, three sisters and four brothers.\n\nHis body was buried in Zhob, his hometown.\n\nOn 26 May 2012, news reports emerged that a primary suspect accused in Babar's murder had been killed during a police encounter with robbers in the Seaview area of Clifton, Karachi. The man was identified as Liaqat Ali. According to the police, Liaqat's car had been used in the shooting of Wali Khan Babar. Liaqat was with a gang of armed robbers at the time he was killed in the police encounter.\n\nThe police's encounter with the suspect was controversial. The family of Liaquat Ali claimed that police encounter was an extrajudicial killing. According to his family, Liaqat recently arrived home on Friday from Punjab. He was arrested in the vicinity of Gulshan-e-Iqbal. According to his family, the police first took him to the highway and then told him to run, they then shot him and his acquaintance in the back, and let them to die before getting them to hospital. The cause of death was excessive bleeding.\n\nIn March 2014, a special anti-terrorism court sentenced Naveed Polka, Muhammad Ali Rizvi, Faisal Mahmood, and Mohammad Shahrukh Khan to life in prison for the murder of Wali Khan Babar. Kamran and Faisal Mota were given death sentences \"in absentia\".\n\n"}
{"id": "19017269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19017269", "title": "World population", "text": "World population\n\nIn demographics, the world population is the total number of humans currently living, and was estimated to have reached 7.7 billion people as of November 2018. It took over 200,000 years of human history for the world's population to reach 1 billion; and only 200 years more to reach 7 billion. \n\nWorld population has experienced continuous growth since the end of the Great Famine of 1315–17 and the Black Death in 1350, when it was near 370 million. \nThe highest population growth rates – global population increases above 1.8% per year – occurred between 1955 and 1975, peaking to 2.06% between 1965 and 1970. The growth rate has declined to 1.18% between 2010 and 2015 and is projected to decline further in the course of the 21st century.\n\nTotal annual births were highest in the late 1980s at about 139 million, and as of 2011 were expected to remain essentially constant at a level of 135 million, while deaths numbered 56 million per year and were expected to increase to 80 million per year by 2040. \nThe median age of the world's population was estimated to be 30.4 years in 2018.\n\nSix of the Earth's seven continents are permanently inhabited on a large scale. Asia is the most populous continent, with its 4.54 billion inhabitants accounting for 60% of the world population. The world's two most populated countries, China and India, together constitute about 36% of the world's population. Africa is the second most populated continent, with around 1.28 billion people, or 16% of the world's population. Europe's 742 million people make up 10% of the world's population as of 2018, while the Latin American and Caribbean regions are home to around 651 million (9%). Northern America, primarily consisting of the United States and Canada, has a population of around 363 million (5%), and Oceania, the least populated region, has about 41 million inhabitants (0.5%). Though it is not permanently inhabited by any fixed population, Antarctica has a small, fluctuating international population based mainly in polar science stations. This population tends to rise in the summer months and decrease significantly in winter, as visiting researchers return to their home countries.\n\nEstimates of world population by their nature are an aspect of modernity, possible only since the Age of Discovery. Early estimates for the population of the world date to the 17th century: William Petty in 1682 estimated world population at 320 million (modern estimates ranging close to twice this number); by the late 18th century, estimates ranged close to one billion (consistent with modern estimates). More refined estimates, broken down by continents, were published in the first half of the 19th century, at 600 to 1000 million in the early 1800s and at 800 to 1000 million in the 1840s.\n\nIt is difficult for estimates to be better than rough approximations, as even modern population estimates are fraught with uncertainties on the order of 3% to 5%.\n\nEstimates of the population of the world at the time agriculture emerged in around 10,000 BC have ranged between 1 million and 15 million. Even earlier, genetic evidence suggests humans may have gone through a population bottleneck of between 1,000 and 10,000 people about 70,000 BC, according to the Toba catastrophe theory. By contrast, it is estimated that around 50–60 million people lived in the combined eastern and western Roman Empire in the 4th century AD.\n\nThe Plague of Justinian, which first emerged during the reign of the Roman emperor Justinian, caused Europe's population to drop by around 50% between the 6th and 8th centuries AD. The population of Europe was more than 70 million in 1340. The Black Death pandemic of the 14th century may have reduced the world's population from an estimated 450 million in 1340 to between 350 and 375 million in 1400; it took 200 years for population figures to recover. The population of China decreased from 123 million in 1200 to 65 million in 1393, presumably due to a combination of Mongol invasions, famine, and plague.\n\nStarting in AD 2, the Han Dynasty of ancient China kept consistent family registers in order to properly assess the poll taxes and labor service duties of each household. In that year, the population of Western Han was recorded as 57,671,400 individuals in 12,366,470 households, decreasing to 47,566,772 individuals in 9,348,227 households by AD 146, towards the End of the Han Dynasty. At the founding of the Ming Dynasty in 1368, China's population was reported to be close to 60 million; toward the end of the dynasty in 1644, it may have approached 150 million. England's population reached an estimated 5.6 million in 1650, up from an estimated 2.6 million in 1500. New crops that were brought to Asia and Europe from the Americas by Portuguese and Spanish colonists in the 16th century are believed to have contributed to population growth. Since their introduction to Africa by Portuguese traders in the 16th century, maize and cassava have similarly replaced traditional African crops as the most important staple food crops grown on the continent.\n\nThe pre-Columbian North American population probably numbered somewhere between 2 million and 18 million. Encounters between European explorers and populations in the rest of the world often introduced local epidemics of extraordinary virulence. According to the most extreme scholarly claims, as many as 90% of the Native American population of the New World died due to Old World diseases such as smallpox, measles and influenza. Over the centuries, the Europeans had developed high degrees of immunity to these diseases, while the indigenous peoples had no such immunity.\n\nDuring the European Agricultural and Industrial Revolutions, the life expectancy of children increased dramatically. The percentage of the children born in London who died before the age of five decreased from 74.5% in 1730–1749 to 31.8% in 1810–1829. Between 1700 and 1900, Europe’s population increased from about 100 million to over 400 million. Altogether, the areas populated by people of European descent comprised 36% of the world's population in 1900.\n\nPopulation growth in the West became more rapid after the introduction of vaccination and other improvements in medicine and sanitation. Improved material conditions led to the population of Britain increasing from 10 million to 40 million in the 19th century. The population of the United Kingdom reached 60 million in 2006. The United States saw its population grow from around 5.3 million in 1800 to 106 million in 1920, exceeding 307 million in 2010.\n\nThe first half of the 20th century in Imperial Russia and the Soviet Union was marked by a succession of major wars, famines and other disasters which caused large-scale population losses (approximately 60 million excess deaths). After the collapse of the Soviet Union, Russia's population declined significantly – from 150 million in 1991 to 143 million in 2012 – but by 2013 this decline appeared to have halted.\n\nMany countries in the developing world have experienced extremely rapid population growth since the early 20th century, due to economic development and improvements in public health. China's population rose from approximately 430 million in 1850 to 580 million in 1953, and now stands at over 1.3 billion. The population of the Indian subcontinent, which was about 125 million in 1750, increased to 389 million in 1941; today, India, Pakistan and Bangladesh are collectively home to about billion people. Java had about 5 million inhabitants in 1815; its present-day successor, Indonesia, now has a population of over 140 million. In just one hundred years, the population of Brazil decupled (x10), from about 17 million in 1900, or about 1% of the world population in that year, to about 176 million in 2000, or almost 3% of the global population in the very early 21st century. Mexico's population grew from 13.6 million in 1900 to about 112 million in 2010. Between the 1920s and 2000s, Kenya's population grew from 2.9 million to 37 million.\n\nIt is estimated that the world population reached one billion for the first time in 1804. It was another 123 years before it reached two billion in 1927, but it took only 33 years to reach three billion in 1960. Thereafter, the global population reached four billion in 1974, five billion in 1987, six billion in 1999 and, according to the United States Census Bureau, seven billion in March 2012. The United Nations, however, estimated that the world population reached seven billion in October 2011.\n\nAccording to current projections, the global population will reach eight billion by 2024, and is likely to reach around nine billion by 2042. Alternative scenarios for 2050 range from a low of 7.4 billion to a high of more than 10.6 billion. Projected figures vary depending on underlying statistical assumptions and the variables used in projection calculations, especially the fertility variable. Long-range predictions to 2150 range from a population decline to 3.2 billion in the \"low scenario\", to \"high scenarios\" of 24.8 billion. One extreme scenario predicted a massive increase to 256 billion by 2150, assuming the global fertility rate remained at its 1995 level of 3.04 children per woman; however, by 2010 the global fertility rate had declined to 2.52.\n\nThere is no estimation for the exact day or month the world's population surpassed one or two billion. The points at which it reached three and four billion were not officially noted, but the International Database of the United States Census Bureau placed them in July 1959 and April 1974 respectively. The United Nations did determine, and commemorate, the \"Day of 5 Billion\" on July 11, 1987, and the \"Day of 6 Billion\" on October 12, 1999. The Population Division of the United Nations declared the \"Day of 7 Billion\" to be October 31, 2011.\n\nAs of 2012, the global sex ratio is approximately 1.01 males to 1 female. The greater number of men is possibly due to the significant sex imbalances evident in the Indian and Chinese populations. Approximately 26.3% of the global population is aged under 15, while 65.9% is aged 15–64 and 7.9% is aged 65 or over. The median age of the world's population was estimated to be 29.7 years in 2014, and is expected to rise to 37.9 years by 2050.\n\nAccording to the World Health Organization, the global average life expectancy is 71.4 years as of 2015, with women living an average of 74 years and men approximately 69 years. In 2010, the global fertility rate was estimated at 2.52 children per woman. In June 2012, British researchers calculated the total weight of Earth's human population as approximately 287 million tonnes, with the average person weighing around .\n\nThe CIA estimated nominal 2013 gross world product at US$74.31 trillion, giving an annual global per capita figure of around US$10,500. Around 1.29 billion people (18.4% of the world population) live in extreme poverty, subsisting on less than US$1.25 per day; approximately 870 million people (12.25%) are undernourished. 83% of the world's over-15s are considered literate. In June 2014, there were around 3.03 billion global Internet users, constituting 42.3% of the world population.\n\nThe Han Chinese are the world's largest single ethnic group, constituting over 19% of the global population in 2011. The world's most-spoken first languages are Mandarin Chinese (spoken by 12.44% of the world's population), Spanish (4.85%), English (4.83%), Arabic (3.25%) and Hindustani (2.68%). The world's largest religion is Christianity, whose adherents account for 31% of the global population; Islam is the second-largest religion, accounting for 24.1%, and Hinduism the third, accounting for 13.78%. In 2005, around 16% of the global population were reported to be non-religious.\n\nApproximately 4.38 billion people live in these ten countries, representing around 57% of the world's population as of July 2018.\n\nThe tables below list the world's most densely populated countries, both in absolute terms and in comparison to their total populations.\n\nPopulation size fluctuates at differing rates in differing regions. Nonetheless, population growth is the long-standing trend on all inhabited continents, as well as in most individual states. During the 20th century, the global population saw its greatest increase in known history, rising from about 1.6 billion in 1900 to over 6 billion in 2000. A number of factors contributed to this increase, including the lessening of the mortality rate in many countries by improved sanitation and medical advances, and a massive increase in agricultural productivity attributed to the Green Revolution.\n\nIn 2000, the United Nations estimated that the world's population was growing at an annual rate of 1.14% (equivalent to around 75 million people), down from a peak of 88 million per year in 1989. By 2000, there were approximately ten times as many people on Earth as there had been in 1700. Globally, the population growth rate has been steadily declining from its peak of 2.19% in 1963, but growth remains high in Latin America, the Middle East, and Sub-Saharan Africa.\n\nDuring the 2010s, Japan and some countries in Europe began to encounter negative population growth (i.e. a net decrease in population over time), due to sub-replacement fertility rates.\n\nIn 2006, the United Nations stated that the rate of population growth was visibly diminishing due to the ongoing global demographic transition. If this trend continues, the rate of growth may diminish to zero by 2050, concurrent with a world population plateau of 9.2 billion. However, this is only one of many estimates published by the UN; in 2009, UN population projections for 2050 ranged between around 8 billion and 10.5 billion. An alternative scenario is given by the statistician Jorgen Randers, who argues that traditional projections insufficiently take into account the downward impact of global urbanization on fertility. Randers' \"most likely scenario\" reveals a peak in the world population in the early 2040s at about 8.1 billion people, followed by decline. Adrian Raftery, a University of Washington professor of statistics and of sociology, states that \"there’s a 70 percent probability the world population will not stabilize this century. Population, which had sort of fallen off the world’s agenda, remains a very important issue.\"\n\nThe table below shows historical and predicted regional population figures in millions. The availability of historical population figures varies by region.\n\nThe following table gives estimates, in millions, of population in the past. The data for 1750 to 1900 are from the UN report \"The World at Six Billion\" whereas the data from 1950 to 2015 are from a UN data sheet.\n\nUsing the above figures, the change in population from 2010 to 2015 was:\n\n\nLong-term global population growth is difficult to predict. The United Nations and the US Census Bureau both give different estimates – according to the UN, the world population reached seven billion in late 2011, while the USCB asserted that this occurred in March 2012. The UN has issued multiple projections of future world population, based on different assumptions. From 2000 to 2005, the UN consistently revised these projections downward, until the 2006 revision, issued on March 14, 2007, revised the 2050 mid-range estimate upwards by 273 million.\n\nAverage global birth rates are declining fast, but vary greatly between developed countries (where birth rates are often at or below replacement levels) and developing countries (where birth rates typically remain high). Different ethnicities also display varying birth rates. Death rates can change rapidly due to disease epidemics, wars and other mass catastrophes, or advances in medicine.\n\n2012 United projections show a continued increase in population in the near future with a steady decline in population growth rate; the global population is expected to reach between 8.3 and 10.9 billion by 2050. 2003 UN Population Division population projections for the year 2150 range between 3.2 and 24.8 billion. One of many independent mathematical models supports the lower estimate, while a 2014 estimate forecasts between 9.3 and 12.6 billion in 2100, and continued growth thereafter. Some analysts have questioned the sustainability of further world population growth, highlighting the growing pressures on the environment, global food supplies, and energy resources.\n\nIn 1975, Sebastian von Hoerner proposed a formula for population growth which represented hyperbolic growth with an infinite population in 2025. The hyperbolic growth of the world population observed until the 1970s was later correlated to a non-linear second order positive feedback between demographic growth and technological development. This feedback can be described as follows: technological advance → increase in the carrying capacity of land for people → demographic growth → more people → more potential inventors → acceleration of technological advance → accelerating growth of the carrying capacity → faster population growth → accelerating growth of the number of potential inventors → faster technological advance → hence, the faster growth of the Earth's carrying capacity for people, and so on. The transition from hyperbolic growth to slower rates of growth is related to the demographic transition.\n\nAccording to the Russian demographer Sergey Kapitsa, the world population grew between 67,000 BC and 1965 according to the following formula:\nwhere\n\nAccording to linear interpolation and extrapolation of UNDESA population estimates, the world population has doubled, or will double, in the years listed in the tables below (with two different starting points). During the 2nd millennium, each doubling took roughly half as long as the previous doubling, fitting the hyperbolic growth model mentioned above. However, after 2024, it is unlikely that there will be another doubling of the global population in the 21st century.\n\nIn his 1798 work \"An Essay on the Principle of Population\", the British scholar Thomas Malthus incorrectly predicted that continued population growth would exhaust the global food supply by the mid-19th century. Malthus wrote the essay to refute what he considered the unattainable utopian ideas of William Godwin and Marquis de Condorcet, as presented in \"Political Justice\" and \"The Future Progress of the Human Mind\". In 1968, Paul R. Ehrlich reprised Malthus' argument in \"The Population Bomb\", predicting that mass global famine would occur in the 1970s and 1980s.\n\nThe predictions of Ehrlich and other neo-Malthusians were vigorously challenged by a number of economists, notably Julian Lincoln Simon, and advances in agriculture, collectively known as the Green Revolution, forestalled any potential global famine in the late 20th century. Between 1950 and 1984, as the Green Revolution transformed agriculture around the world, grain production increased by over 250%. The world population has grown by over four billion since the beginning of the Green Revolution, but food production has so far kept pace with population growth. Most scholars believe that, without the Revolution, there would be greater levels of famine and malnutrition than the UN presently documents. However, neo-Malthusians point out that fossil fuels provided the energy for the Green Revolution, in the form of natural gas-derived fertilizers, oil-derived pesticides, and hydrocarbon-fueled irrigation, and that many crops have become so genetically uniform that a crop failure in any one country could potentially have global repercussions.\n\nIn 2004, a meta-analysis of 70 quantitative studies estimating a sustainable limit to the world population generated a meta-estimate of 7.7 billion people.\n\nIn May 2008, the price of grain was pushed up severely by the increased cultivation of biofuels, the increase of world oil prices to over $140 per barrel ($880/m), global population growth, the effects of climate change, the loss of agricultural land to residential and industrial development, and growing consumer demand in the population centres of China and India. Food riots subsequently occurred in some countries. However, oil prices then fell sharply. Resource demands are expected to ease as population growth declines, but it is unclear whether mass food wastage and rising living standards in developing countries will once again create resource shortages.\n\nDavid Pimentel, professor of ecology and agriculture at Cornell University, estimates that the sustainable agricultural carrying capacity for the United States is about 200 million people; its population as of 2015 is over 300 million. In 2009, the UK government's chief scientific advisor, Professor John Beddington, warned that growing populations, falling energy reserves and food shortages would create a \"perfect storm\" of shortages of food, water, and energy by 2030. According to a 2009 report by the United Nations Food and Agriculture Organization (FAO), the world will have to produce 70% more food by 2050 to feed a projected extra 2.3 billion people.\n\nThe observed figures for 2007 showed an actual increase in absolute numbers of undernourished people in the world, with 923 million undernourished in 2007, versus 832 million in 1995. The 2009 FAO estimates showed an even more dramatic increase, to 1.02 billion.\n\nA number of scientists have argued that the current global population expansion and accompanying increase in resource consumption threatens the world's ecosystem.\nThe InterAcademy Panel Statement on Population Growth, which was ratified by 58 member national academies in 1994, states that \"unprecedented\" population growth aggravates many environmental problems, including rising levels of atmospheric carbon dioxide, global warming, and pollution. Indeed, some analysts claim that overpopulation's most serious impact is its effect on the environment.\nThe situation has continued to worsen, as at the time of the 1994 IAP statement, the world population stood at 5.5 billion and lower-bound scenarios predicted a peak of 7.8 billion by 2050, a number that current estimates state will be reached in the late 2020s.\n\nScientists contend that human overpopulation, continued human population growth and overconsumption, particularly by the wealthy, are the primary drivers of mass species extinction. By 2050 population growth, along with profligate consumption, could result in oceans containing more plastic than fish by weight. In November 2017, a statement by 15,364 scientists from 184 countries asserted that rapid human population growth is the \"primary driver behind many ecological and even societal threats.\"\n\nA July 2017 study published in \"Environmental Research Letters\" argued that the most significant way individuals could mitigate their own carbon footprint is to have fewer children, followed by living without a vehicle, forgoing air travel and adopting a plant-based diet.\n\nHuman population control is the practice of intervening to alter the rate of population growth. Historically, human population control has been implemented by limiting a region's birth rate, by voluntary contraception or by government mandate. It has been undertaken as a response to factors including high or increasing levels of poverty, environmental concerns, and religious reasons. The use of abortion in some population control strategies has caused controversy, with religious organizations such as the Roman Catholic Church explicitly opposing any intervention in the human reproductive process.\n\nThe University of Nebraska publication \"Green Illusions\" argues that population control to alleviate environmental pressures need not be coercive. It states that \"Women who are educated, economically engaged, and in control of their own bodies can enjoy the freedom of bearing children at their own pace, which happens to be a rate that is appropriate for the aggregate ecological endowment of our planet.\" The book \"Fatal Misconception\" by Matthew Connelly similarly points to the importance of supporting the rights of women in bringing population levels down over time.\n\nFurther reading\n\nOrganizations\n\nStatistics and maps\n\nPopulation clocks\n"}
