{"id": "352476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=352476", "title": "A77 road", "text": "A77 road\n\nThe A77 road is a major road in Scotland. It runs in a southwesternly direction from the city of Glasgow, past the towns of Giffnock, Newton Mearns, Kilmarnock, Prestwick, Ayr, Maybole, Girvan and Stranraer to the town of Portpatrick on the Irish Sea. It passes through the council areas of Glasgow City, East Renfrewshire, East Ayrshire, South Ayrshire and Dumfries and Galloway.\n\nIt has full trunk road status from the terminus of the M77 motorway at Fenwick to the junction with the A75 in Stranraer.\n\nThe A77 is an important link from Glasgow to one of its two major airports, Prestwick Airport, and to the three main Northern Ireland ferry terminals at Stranraer, Cairnryan, and Troon. As a result, the road is subject to a busy mixture of commuter, tourist and heavy goods vehicle traffic which has necessitated upgrades to many sections.\n\nBypasses for Ayr and Kilmarnock were built in the 1970s, and the M77 motorway replaced the Glasgow to Newton Mearns section in two stages, in the mid-to-late 1990s, but not without controversy as a section of the motorway was routed through Pollok Country Park.\n\nThis still left the East Ayrshire stretch of the road which widely appeared in statistics as one of the most dangerous sections of road in Scotland. The majority of this section was an unsegregated, 4-lane single carriageway between Kilmarnock and Newton Mearns and the lanes were narrow compared to the standard of other major roads. At several points, it was common for traffic waiting to turn right to queue in the overtaking lane. The speed limit of was widely ignored. Finally, the road narrowed to only two lanes near Newton Mearns, causing long queues.\nThe combined result was a number of fatal crashes. The Scottish Executive took the decision to replace the entire section up to the Kilmarnock bypass with an extension of the M77 after pressure and campaigning from West Sound and West FM.\n\nConstruction of the motorway was faster than usual, given the eagerness to replace the A77 after another fatal crash in June 2002 resulted in the death of Hugh Davidson, then Chief Inspector of Strathclyde Police, and the motorway was opened in April 2005. This completed a continuous dual carriageway road from Glasgow to Ayr.\n\nIn an effort to prevent a repeat of the fatalities on the southern section of the road, July 2005 saw the A77 become host to the largest automatic speed limit enforcement system in the whole of the UK. Based on the digital SPECS system rather than the traditional fixed post GATSO film cameras, gantries with automatic numberplate recognition cameras are sited on the road at intervals of between and measure the average speed of traffic. The enforced zone stretches from the Bogend Toll Junction (Dundonald/Tarbolton junction) at the northern end on the dual carriageway section where the junctions are not grade separated, down to just north of Lendalfoot; a distance of around .\n\nFrom 10 March 2008 a long term temporary limit to Dutch House Roundabout was introduced, following the death in October 2006 of another police officer, Constable Kevin Lowe. Constable Lowe was on duty and en route at approximately to a call at the time. This speed limit is to remain in force until new grade separated junctions are opened in 2014.\n\nThere have been continued efforts to improve the road in the south. One such project, the Turnberry Climbing Lane which opened in 2005, has enhanced guaranteed overtaking opportunities on the single carriageway section. Another improvement opened in Autumn 2006, the upgraded Whitletts roundabout with traffic lights and spiral lanes. Climbing lanes were added at Haggstone and Drummuckloch and a stretch was straightened north of nearby Glenapp in autumn 2008. In 2011 a stretch was widened from Park End to Bennane.\n\nThe A77 was formerly part of the Euroroute system, and comprised route E111.\n\nA bypass for Maybole is in planning stages but has not yet been funded (as at 2011). <br>\nFurther minor improvements are planned with no dates published for: <br>\nArdwell to Slockenray overtaking lane <br>\nDowhill to Chapeldonan realignment \n\n"}
{"id": "8240082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8240082", "title": "A84 road", "text": "A84 road\n\nThe A84 is a major road in Scotland, United Kingdom. It links the city of Stirling with Lochearnhead, running an approximate .\n\nThe A84 between M9 Junction 10 and Lochearnhead has a poor road safety record, according to EuroRAP. In its June 2008 GB Tracking Results, the Road Safety Foundation reported that the 44 km single carriageway stretch featured 29 fatal and serious injury accidents between 2003 and 2005.\n"}
{"id": "4873450", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4873450", "title": "Administrative divisions of French Polynesia", "text": "Administrative divisions of French Polynesia\n\nIn French Polynesia, there are two levels of administrative divisions and five administrative subdivisions (). Each of these is further divided into a total of 48 communes. Many of the communes are further subdivided into communes associées. The breakdown into administrative subdivisions was as a result of decree #72-408 of May 17, 1972, and the communes were thereafter established as a result of law #71-1028, dated December 24, 1971. Below are several lists of the divisions, according to different sorting schemes.\n\nFor French administrative convenience, Clipperton Island had been attached to French Polynesia until February 20, 2007, but never formed part of any administrative subdivision or commune of French Polynesia. On February 21, 2007, Clipperton Island was transferred from the High Commissioner of the republic in French Polynesia to the Minister of Overseas France.\n\nThe communes of French Polynesia have the following statistical info: \nThe average size of French Polynesian communes is 78.06 km, while the median area is 55.4 km, higher than the average and median areas of metropolitan French communes (14.88 km and 10.73 km, respectively), but the size of these communes is predominantly dependent on the land area of the islands they occupy.\n\nThe communes of French Polynesia have the following statistical info: \nThe average commune population is 5,725, while the median is 2,268, much higher than the average and median metropolitan French commune (1,542 and 380, respectively).\n\nSources :\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31944013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31944013", "title": "Andrew Sluyter", "text": "Andrew Sluyter\n\nAndrew Sluyter is an American social scientist who currently teaches as an associate professor in the Geography and Anthropology Department of the Louisiana State University in Baton Rouge. His interests are the environmental history and historical, cultural, and political ecology of the colonization of the Americas. He has made various contributions to the theorization of colonialism and landscape, the critique of neo-environmental determinism, to understanding pre-colonial and colonial agriculture and environmental change in Mexico, to revealing African contributions to establishing cattle ranching in the Americas, and to the historical geographies of Hispanics and Latinos in New Orleans. With the publication of \"Black Ranching Frontiers: African Cattle Herders of the Atlantic World, 1500–1900\" (Yale University Press, 2012) and a 2012–13 Digital Innovation Fellowship from the American Council of Learned Societies, he has joined a growing number of scholars from multiple disciplines working from the perspective of Atlantic History and using the tools of the Digital Humanities. His latest book, \"Hispanic and Latino New Orleans: Immigration and Identity since the Eighteenth Century\" (LSU Press, 2015), co-authored with Case Watkins, James Chaney, and Annie M. Gibson, was awarded the 2015 John Brinckerhoff Jackson Book Prize by the American Association of Geographers.\n\nSluyter received his PhD-degree in 1995 from the Department of Geography and the Environment at University of Texas at Austin. In 2004, he earned the \"James M. Blaut Award in Recognition of Innovative Scholarship\" from the Cultural and Political Ecology Specialty Group of the Association of American Geographers. From 2005 to 2008, Sluyter was a member of the board of directors of the Conference of Latin Americanist Geographers, and in 2017, received its Carl O. Sauer Distinguished Scholarship Award. From 2007 through 2012, he was associate editor of the \"Geographical Review\". Since 2006 he has served on the United States Geography Commission of the Pan-American Institute of Geography and History of the Organization of American States. Sluyter currently serves as the co-editor-in-chief of \"Journal of Historical Geography\" and as Executive Director of the Conference of Latin Americanist Geographers.\n\nGeographers who have studied with him include Case Watkins (PhD 2015), now a faculty member at James Madison University; Jamie Worms, now a faculty member at Georgia State University; James P. Chaney (PhD 2013), now a faculty member at Middle Tennessee State University; Amy E. Potter (PhD 2011), now a faculty member at Armstrong Atlantic State University; and Richard Hunter (PhD 2009), now a member of the geography faculty of the State University of New York at Cortland.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4645482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4645482", "title": "Baffin Island Current", "text": "Baffin Island Current\n\nBaffin Island Current (or Baffin Current) is an ocean current running south down the western side of Baffin Bay in the Arctic Ocean, along Baffin Island. Its sources are the West Greenland Current and outflow from the Arctic Ocean. Its speed is approximately per day.\n"}
{"id": "17639374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17639374", "title": "Boreal forest of Canada", "text": "Boreal forest of Canada\n\nCanada's Boreal forest comprises about one third of the circumpolar boreal forest that rings the Northern Hemisphere, mostly north of the 50th parallel. Other countries with boreal forest, also called taiga, include Russia, which contains the majority, the United States in its northern most state of Alaska, and the Scandinavian or Northern European countries (e.g. Sweden, Finland, Norway and small regions of Scotland). The boreal region in Canada covers almost 60% of the country's land area. The Canadian boreal region spans the landscape from the most easterly part of the province of Newfoundland and Labrador to the border between the far northern Yukon and Alaska. The area is dominated by coniferous forests, particularly spruce, interspersed with vast wetlands, mostly bogs and fens. The boreal region of Canada includes eight ecozones. While the biodiversity of regions varies, each ecozone has a characteristic native flora and fauna.\n\nThe boreal forest zone consists of closed-crown conifer forests with a conspicuous deciduous element (Ritchie 1987). The proportions of the dominant conifers (white and black spruces, jack pine (\"Pinus banksiana\" Lamb.), tamarack, and balsam fir) vary greatly in response to interactions among climate, topography, soil, fire, pests, and perhaps other factors.\n\nThe Canadian boreal region represents a tract of land over 1,000 kilometres wide separating the tundra in the north and temperate rain forest and deciduous woodlands that predominate in the most southerly and westerly parts of Canada. Canada's boreal forest is also considered to be the largest intact forest on earth, with around 3 million square kilometres still undisturbed by roads, cities and industrial development. Its high level of intactness has made the forest a particular focus of environmentalists and conservation scientists who view the untouched regions of the forest as an opportunity for large-scale conservation that would otherwise be impractical in other parts of the world.\n\nThe boreal region contains about 13% of Canada's population. With its sheer vastness and forest cover, the boreal makes an important contribution to the rural and aboriginal economies of Canada, primarily through resource industries, recreation, hunting, fishing and eco-tourism. Hundreds of cities and towns within its territory derive at least 20% of their economic activity from the forest, mainly from industries like forest products, mining, oil and gas and tourism. The boreal forest also plays an iconic role in Canada's history, economic and social development and the arts.\n\nThe Canadian boreal forest in its current form began to emerge with the end of the last Ice Age. With the retreat of the Wisconsin Ice Sheet 10,000 years ago, spruce and northern pine migrated northward and were followed thousands of years later by fir and birch. About 5000 years ago, the Canadian boreal began to resemble what it is today in terms of species composition and biodiversity. This type of coniferous forest vegetation is spread across the Northern Hemisphere. These forests contain three structural types: forest tundra in the north, open lichen woodland further south, and closed forest in more southern areas. White spruce, black spruce and tamarack are most prevalent in the four northern eco-zones of the Taiga and Hudson Plains, while spruce, balsam fir, jack pine, white birch and trembling aspen are most common in the lower boreal regions. Large populations of trembling aspen and willow are found in the southernmost parts of the Boreal Plains.\n\nOne dominant characteristic of the boreal is that much of it consists of large, even-aged stands, a uniformity that owes to a cycle of natural disturbances like forest fires, or outbreaks of pine beetle or spruce budworm that kill large tracts of forest with cyclical regularity. For example, the many stands of white spruce, black spruce, and balsam fir are vulnerable to the cyclical outbreaks of a species of the spruce budworm, the \"Choristoneura fumiferana.\" Since the melting of the great ice sheet, the boreal forest has been through many cycles of natural death through fire, insect outbreaks and disease, followed by regeneration. Prior to European colonization of Canada and the application of modern firefighting equipment and techniques, the natural burn/regeneration cycle was less than 75 to 100 years, and it still is in many areas.\n\nTerms like old growth and ancient forest have a different connotation in the boreal context than they do when used to describe mature coastal rain forests with longer-lived species and different natural disturbance cycles. However, the effects of forest fires and insect outbreaks differ from the effects of logging, so they should not be treated as equivalent in their ecological consequences. Logging, for example, requires road networks with their negative impacts, and it removes nutrients from the site, which may deplete nutrients for the next cycle of forest growth. Fire, on the other hand, recycles nutrients on location (except for some nitrogen), it removes accumulated organic matter and it stimulates reproduction of fire-dependent species.\n\nCanada's boreal region can be divided into seven ecozones. These seven can be divided into two main groups. The northern regions of the boreal forest consists of four eco-zones – Taiga Cordillera, Taiga Plains, Taiga Shield and Hudson Plains – that are the most thinly treed areas where the growing season and average tree size progressively shrinks until the edge of the Arctic tundra is reached. The southern tier of the boreal meanwhile consists of three other ecozones that form the largely uninterrupted or continuous forest in stretching as far south as Lake Superior in Ontario (as the Central Canadian Shield forests ecoregion) and the Manitoba-North Dakota border. These three southern zones are the Boreal Shield, at 1,630,000 square kilometres the largest of the eight zones, the Boreal Plains and Boreal Cordillera. A typical ecoregion of this southern tier would be the Eastern Canadian Shield taiga that covers northern Quebec and most of Labrador. Within the boreal region, there are about 1,890,000 square kilometres that are between 80% to 100% forested and another 650,000 square kilometres with 60% to 80% forest cover.\n\nMost trees native to the Canadian boreal are conifers, with needle leaves and cones. These include: black spruce, white spruce, balsam fir, larch (tamarack), lodgepole pine, and jack pine. A few are broad-leaved species: trembling and large-toothed aspen, cottonwood and white birch, and balsam poplar. There are large areas of black spruce, a species which is tolerant of shallow soil, permafrost and waterlogged substrates, although as a consequence they have relatively low biological productivity.\nOwing to the short growing season, generally infertile soils, generally shallow soils, and frequent waterlogging, most of these forest types are slow-growing species, which generally tend to predominate in stressed habitats. Similarly, many of the understory shrubs are in the Ericaceae, a family known to tolerate acid, infertile and flooded habitats: examples include Labrador tea, sheep-laurel and blueberry. Since nutrient levels are so low, overall, the productivity of forest trees is highly dependent on the rate at which mineral elements such as nitrogen and phosphorus are recycled by litterfall and decomposition. After logging, the loss of nutrients may convert forested areas into shrub barrens dominated by shrubs such as sheep-laurel. Many of the plant species are fire-dependent, since fire removes neighbouring plants, and recycles nutrients locked in organic matter.\n\nAlthough there are rather few species of trees in the boreal forest, there is a considerable diversity of other kinds of plants. An accurate summary is difficult, since most compendia on plants are organized by political, rather than ecological boundaries; one exception addresses the flora of the Hudson Bay Lowland, but much of this area is not forested. One portion of the boreal forest can be used to illustrate plant diversity; consider the \"Flora of the Yukon\". In this western part of the boreal forest, there are, for example 127 species of grass (Poaceae), 118 species of Asteraceae, 115 species of sedge (Cyperaceae), 93 species of crucifer (Brassicaceae), 52 species of Rosaceae, 37 species of Saxifragaceae and 36 members of the snapdragon family (Scrophulariaceae). Overall, the flora has 1112 species—there are even 15 species of orchids.\n\nCanada's boreal landscape contains more lakes and rivers than any comparably sized landmass on earth. It has been estimated that the boreal region contains over 1.5 million lakes with a minimum surface area of 40,000 square metres as well as some of Canada's largest lakes. Soft water lakes predominate in central and eastern Canada and hard water lakes predominate in Western Canada. Most large boreal lakes have cold water species of fish like trout and whitefish, while in warmer waters, species may include northern pike, walleye and smallmouth bass.\n\nThe boreal forest also has vast areas of wetland, particularly bogs and fens. Two wetland areas, the Hudson Bay Lowland and the Mackenzie River basin, are among the ten largest wetlands in the world. The boreal forest wetlands provide wildlife habitat (particularly for migratory birds), they maintain water flow in rivers, and they store significant amounts of carbon that otherwise would be released to the atmosphere.\n\nIn contemporary times, the boreal forest has suffered little deforestation, defined as the permanent conversion of forest area to non-forest due to activities associated with agriculture, urban or recreational development, oil and gas development, and flooding for hydroelectric projects. In Alberta, the province with the largest oil and gas industry, more trees are cut for agriculture or oil and gas exploration than for timber. In eastern Canada, over 9,000 square kilometres of peatlands and forest have been flooded over the past four decades for hydroelectric projects. Canada as a whole has 91% of the forest cover that existed at the dawn of European settlement. More deforestation has occurred outside the boreal region, in more southerly areas of the country. The forest sector annually harvests approximately ½ of 1% of the region. However, this is not considered deforestation by some, given that provincial laws are meant to ensure that areas harvested by the forest sector are replanted or regenerated naturally. However, the resulting road network from logging has effects that persist long beyond the period of harvest; indeed, one can make the case that road construction is one of the most harmful and persistent effects of logging.\n\nThere may be as many as five billion landbirds, including resident and migratory species. The Canadian boreal region contains the largest area of wetlands of any ecosystem of the world, serving as breeding ground for over 12 million waterbirds and millions of land birds, the latter including species as diverse as vultures, hawks, grouse, owls, hummingbirds, kingfishers, woodpeckers and passerines (or perching birds, often referred to as songbirds). It is estimated that the avian population of the boreal represents 60% of the landbirds in all of Canada and almost 30% of all landbirds in the United States and Canada combined.\n\nMany of the wildlife species, are, like the forests, dependent upon natural disturbance from fire and insect outbreaks. For example, at least three species of warbler (Cape May warbler, bay-breasted warbler and Tennessee warbler), have distributions and abundance related to spruce budworm outbreaks. The black-backed woodpecker shows a preference for burnt over forests, where it forages for insects burrowing in the dead trees that remain standing. Fireweed, as the name suggests, is a plant that similar thrives in recently burned areas. Blueberries and huckleberries are also stimulated by fires, probably benefiting from the removal of shade, and the nutrients released in ashes. The resulting berries are an important food source for boreal forest animals.\n\nFew species of boreal wildlife are classified under government conservation regimes as being at risk of extinction. However, the decline of some major species of wildlife is a concern. Boreal woodland caribou, whose lichen-rich, mature forest habitat spans the boreal forest from the Northwest Territories to Labrador, is designated as a threatened by the Committee on the Status of Endangered Wildlife in Canada. The Newfoundland population of marten is threatened by habitat loss, accidental trapping and prey availability.\n\nThe particular mixture of tree species depends upon factors including soil moisture, soil depth, and organic content. Upland forests can be closely mixed with forested peatlands. The resulting conifer forests are produced by and dependent upon recurring disturbance from storms, fires, floods and insect outbreaks. Owing to the accumulated peat in the soil, and the predominance of coniferous trees, lightning-caused fire has always been a natural part of this forest. It is one of many ecosystems that depend upon such recurring natural disturbance. For example, fire dependent species like lodgepole and jack pine have resin sealed cones. In a fire, the resin melts and the cones to open, allowing seeds to scatter so that a new pine forest begins (see also fire ecology). It has been estimated that prior to European settlement, this renewal process occurred on average every 75 to 100 years, creating even-aged stands of forest. Fire continues to cause natural forest disturbance, but fire suppression and clear-cutting has interrupted these natural cycles, leading to significant changes in species composition.\n\nBoreal vegetation never attains stability because of interactions among fire, vegetation, soil–water relationships, frost action, and permafrost (Churchill and Hanson 1958, Spurr and Barnes 1980). Wildfires produce a vegetation mosaic supporting an ever-changing diversity of plant and animal populations (Viereck 1973). In the absence of fire, the accumulation of sphagnum peat on level upland sites would eventually oust coniferous vegetation and produce muskeg.\n\nDespite today's sophisticated and expensive fire-spotting and fire-fighting techniques, forest fires in Canada still burn, on average, about 28,000 square kilometres of boreal and other forest area annually. That average annual burn area is equivalent to more than three times the current annual industrial timber harvest. It can be many more times that in intense fire years. However, although logging also removes trees, fire is not the same as logging, since fire has been a part of coniferous forests for millennia. Fire not only stimulates regeneration of many plant species, it recycles phosphorus and removes accumulated organic matter. Fire is increasingly used as a management tool to maintain forest health in some parts of North America (see fire ecology). Different parts of the boreal have different burn cycles. The drier western region, which receives lower average rainfall, had higher natural fire frequencies. Hence, more area is burned annually on average in the west than in central and eastern Canada. When natural burn cycles are interrupted by fire suppression, natural renewal is obstructed and species composition is changed. In addition, fire suppression causes fuel loads to increase so that fires, when they do occur, become more intense. One can argue that fire suppression actually creates a positive feed back loop, where ever more expensive fire suppression generates the conditions for ever larger fires. The negative effects of fire suppression are still under study, and not fully measured, but they need to be considered when making decisions about the future health of boreal forests.\n\nBecause parts of the boreal forest region are found in nearly every province and territory in Canada, there has not been much in the way of coordinated planning to develop the region. Prime Minister Diefenbaker talked of his \"northern vision\" but little was done to see it come to pass. A proposal was authored by Richard Rohmer in 1967 called \"Mid-Canada Development Corridor: A Concept\" and was discussed by officials and politicians but was never implemented. In 2014, John van Nostrand attempted to revive the concept.\n\nIn the absence of a nationwide plan, private industry and the provinces have pursued development in particular products or certain regions. These include the Athabasca Oil Sands in Alberta, the Ring of Fire (Ontario), and Quebec's Plan nord.\n\nForest land in Canada is largely Crown land. Over 90% of the boreal forest is provincial Crown land; another 5% is federally controlled and includes national parks, First Nations reserves and national defence installations.\n\nAbout 1,400 communities within the Boreal region rely on resource industries for at least part of the livelihood and stability. Many of these communities were carved out of the forest to support a sawmill, pulp and paper mill, mine or railway maintenance facility. Boreal forestry activities support almost 400,000 direct and indirect jobs across Canada. Forestry, pulp and paper, mining, and oil and gas exploration and development are the largest industries along with tourism, trapping, recreation, light manufacturing and the services to support industry and communities. The forest products sector is one of Canada's largest export industries, representing approximately 3% of GDP, with about half of the annual wood harvest coming from the boreal forest.\n\nRoughly one quarter of the boreal forest is managed for industrial forestry. The remaining three-quarters is either in parks, conservation areas, model forests or is considered non-timber-productive, generally defined as unsuitable for managed forestry or inaccessible. As recently as 2003, it was estimated that the annual harvest in the boreal was about 7,500 square kilometres per year, equivalent to about 0.2% of the total Canadian boreal forest. The sharp downturn in the market for lumber because of the collapse of the housing market in the United States that began in 2006, coupled with import tariff and tax barriers, have knocked the bottom out of Canada's forest industry. In Ontario, Canada's most populous province, where most forestry activity is in the boreal, government statistics suggest that the harvest declined 18% from 2005 to 2006. Given the high number of mill closings from 2005 onward, mostly in Ontario and Quebec, it is a trend that most likely persisted through 2007 and 2008. Most of Canada's conventional onshore oil and gas production, including the rapidly expanding oil sands production in Alberta, is located in the boreal region as is Canada's largest uranium producing zone in northern Saskatchewan and Quebec's largest hydroelectric generating facilities in the La Grande watershed.\n\nAbout eighty percent of Canada's Aboriginal population resides in forested areas – including one million in over five hundred First Nations and Métis settlements in boreal zones. Of that amount, over 17,000 work in the forest products industry, mostly in silviculture and woodlands operations in the boreal and other forest regions.\n\nSince the early 1990s, a strong impetus has been created to focus on conserving Canada's boreal legacy and sustainably managing economic activity within the entire region. The Canadian boreal is largely intact and available for multiple uses like timber harvest, recreation and hunting. Forestry companies have come to adopt the management practices known as eco-system based management, which takes into consideration criteria and indicators for sustainability – social, economic and environmental. A number of key principles have come to underpin Canadian forestry practices as mandated by forestry legislation, including the obligation for forestry companies operating on public lands to fully regenerate all areas harvested for timber and to consult the public on the preparation of forest management/harvest plans submitted to the relevant provincial authorities.\n\nAs a result of growing public concern with sustainable development and conserving the integrity of the boreal forests, conservation initiatives are progressing on various fronts. The area in national and provincial parks and protected conservation areas is approximately 10% of the total boreal area. Most large forest products companies have certified their boreal forestry operations to one of three third-party, independently audited standards for sustainable forest management:\n\nSustainable Forest Management refers to managing a forest ecosystem in a manner that maintains and enhances its long-term health.\n\nIn July 2008 the Ontario government announced plans to protect 225,000 kilometres of the Northern Boreal lands.\nIn February 2010 the Canadian government established protection for of boreal forest by creating a new reserve of in the Mealy Mountains area of eastern Canada and a waterway provincial park of that follows alongside the Eagle River from headwaters to sea. A report issued in 2011 by the Pew Environment Group described the Canadian boreal forest as the largest natural storage of freshwater in the world.\n\nThe boreal forest is deeply ingrained in the Canadian identity and the images foreigners have of Canada. The history of the early European fur traders, their adventures, discoveries, aboriginal alliances and misfortunes is an essential part of the popular colonial history of Canada. The canoe, the beaver pelt, the coureur des bois, the voyageurs, the Hudson's Bay Company and the North-West Mounted Police, the construction of Canada's transcontinental railways – all are symbols of Canadian history familiar to school children that are inextricably linked to the boreal forest.\n\nThe forest – and boreal species such as the caribou and loon – are or have been featured on Canadian currency. Another iconic and enduring image of the boreal was created by 20th-century landscape painters, most notably from the Group of Seven, who saw the uniqueness of Canada in its boreal vastness. The Group of Seven artists largely portrayed the boreal as natural, pure and unspoiled by human presence or activity and hence only partly a reflection of reality.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57266081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57266081", "title": "Britain's Bourse", "text": "Britain's Bourse\n\nBritain's Bourse, also known as the New Exchange, was a shopping arcade located on the Strand, London opened by James I in 1609. It was demolished in 1737.\n\nInigo Jones submitted a design, but these were not used. It was built by Sir Robert Cecil, 1st Earl of Salisbury. Building commenced on 10 June 1608. The site had previously been occupied by the stables of Durham House, now 52 to 64 Strand. It was briefly known as the Salisbury Exchange, but was renamed when James I opened the building on 11 April 1609. He was accompanied by his queen, Anne of Denmark, his son, later Charles I of England and daughter Elizabeth, later Queen of Bohemia.\n\nIt primarily catered for women providing not only fashionable clothes and millinery, but also ornaments and items of furniture. However it also included several bookshops. Along with the Royal Exchange it provided one of the major shopping centres in London, particularly after the Fire of London.\n\nCosimo III de' Medici, Grand Duke of Tuscany visited the premises during his visit to England in 1669 and described the building:\n"}
{"id": "15379681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15379681", "title": "Cartographic censorship", "text": "Cartographic censorship\n\nThe term Cartographic censorship relates to the deliberate modification of publicly available maps in order to disguise, remove or obfuscate potentially strategic locations or buildings, such as military bases, power plants or transmitters. The removal of such sensitive objects and places from maps is usually done in the apparent interests of national or international security, defence and the prevention of terrorism.\n\nA variant of censorship of maps is putting in false altitudes. This can be important for predicting flooding. In World War I many German soldiers were killed in Belgium after their camps were flooded, even though the maps used by German military indicated the camp sites were not prone to flooding.\n\nCensorship of maps was also used in former East Germany, especially for the areas near the border to West Germany in order to make attempts of defection more difficult.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, during the Cold War period and shortly after, a number of military installations (including 'prohibited places') did not appear on commercially issued Ordnance Survey mapping. This practice was effectively curtailed with the mass availability of satellite imagery. Another aspect of map censorship in the UK is that the internal layout of HM Prison facilities were not shown on public OS mapping.\n\nCensorship of maps is today still often applied, although it is less effective in the age of satellite picture services. A \"dead map\" is a term often applied to sensitive government maps that show the location of top secret facilities and other highly sensitive installations within a country. Russia, the United States and Great Britain all have such maps.\n\nGoogle Earth censors places that may be of special security concern. The following is a selection of such concerns:\n\nCensorship of maps is also applied by Google maps, where certain areas are greyed out or areas are purposely left outdated with old imagery.\n\nIn Lebanon, all maps concerning the country are property of the Lebanese Army and are issued by the Directory of Geographic affairs of the Lebanese military. It is considered a felony to reproduce whole or portions of maps without the permission of the military, although maps can be issued to certain universities and urban design schools for use by students and can be issued to civilian upon presenting certain documents. A notice is written on the maps prohibiting reproduction, copying or sale of the map and that it should be returned to the Ministry of National Defense upon request. This policy is meant to prohibit terrorists, outlaws, and entities that are at war with Lebanon from obtaining those maps.\n\nLists of air traffic obstacles may not be published by many countries as many of them are strategically important (chimneys of power stations, radio masts, etc.)\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2736110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2736110", "title": "Command center", "text": "Command center\n\nA command center or command centre (often called a war room) is any place that is used to provide centralized command for some purpose.\n\nWhile frequently considered to be a military facility, these can be used in many other cases by governments or businesses. The term \"war room\" is also often used in politics to refer to teams of communications people who monitor and listen to the media and the public, respond to inquiries, and synthesize opinions to determine the best course of action.\n\nIf all functions of a command center are located in a single room this is often referred to as a control room.\n\nA command center enables an organization to function as designed, to perform day-to-day operations regardless of what is happening around it, in a manner in which no one realizes it is there but everyone knows who is in charge when there is trouble.\n\nConceptually, a command center is a source of leadership and guidance to ensure that service and order is maintained, rather than an information center or help desk. Its tasks are achieved by monitoring the environment and reacting to events, from the relatively harmless to a major crisis, using predefined procedures.\n\nThere are many types of command centers. They include:\n\n\n\nA command center is a central place for carrying out orders and for supervising tasks, also known as a headquarters, or HQ.\n\nCommon to every command center are three general activities: inputs, processes, and outputs. The inbound aspect is communications (usually intelligence and other field reports). Inbound elements are \"sitreps\" (situation reports of what is happening) and \"progreps\" (progress reports relative to a goal that has been set) from the field back to the command element.\n\nThe process aspect involves a command element that makes decisions about what should be done about the input data. In the US military, the command consists of a field – (Major to Colonel) or flag – (General) grade commissioned officer with one or more advisers. The outbound communications then delivers command decisions (i.e., operating orders) to the field elements.\n\nCommand centers should not be confused with the high-level military formation of a Command – as with any formation, Commands may be controlled from a command center, however not all formations controlled from a command centre are Commands.\n\nDuring the Cold War, the Government of Canada undertook the construction of \"Emergency Government Headquarters\", to be used in the event of nuclear warfare or other large-scale disaster. Canada was generally allied with the United States for the duration of the war, was a founding member of NATO, allowed American cruise missiles to be tested in the far north, and flew sovereignty missions in the Arctic.\n\nFor these reasons, the country was often seen as being a potential target of the Soviets at the height of nuclear tensions in the 1960s. Extensive post-attack plans were drawn up for use in emergencies, and fallout shelters were built all across the country for use as command centres for governments of all levels, the Canadian Forces, and rescue personnel, such as fire services.\n\nDifferent levels of command centres included:\n\nJoint Operations Command (JOC) is the organizational unit of the Serbian Armed Forces directly subordinated to the General Staff of the Armed Forces. The main duty of the Command is to conduct operational command over the Armed Forces. The Operations Command has a flexible formation, which is expanded by the representatives of other organizational units of the General Staff, and, if there is a need, operational level commands. In peacetime, the commander of the Joint Operations Command is at the same time Deputy of Serbian Armed Forces General Staff.\n\nConstructed in 1938, the Cabinet War Rooms were used extensively by Sir Winston Churchill during the Second World War.\n\nA Command and Control Center is a specialized type of command center operated by a government or municipal agency 24 hours a day, 7 days a week. Various branches of the U.S. Military such as the U.S Coast Guard and the U.S. Navy have command and control centers.\n\nThey are also common in many large correctional facilities. A Command and Control Center operates as the agency's dispatch center, surveillance monitoring center, coordination office, and alarm monitoring center all in one.\n\nCommand and control centers are not staffed by high-level officials but rather by highly skilled technical staff. When a serious incident occurs the staff will notify the agency's higher level officials.\n\nA command center enables the real-time visibility and management of an entire service operation. Similar to an air traffic control center, a command center allows organizations to view the status of global service calls, service technicians, and service parts on a single screen. In addition, customer commitments or service level agreements (SLAs) that have been made can also be programmed into the command center and monitored to ensure all are met and customers are satisfied.\n\nA command center is well suited for industries where coordinating field service (people, equipment, parts, and tools) is critical. Some examples:\n\n\nWar rooms can also be used for defining strategies, or driving business intelligence efforts.\n\nThe most famous war room in popular culture was the one depicted in the 1964 film \"Dr. Strangelove\". War rooms were also seen in other films like \"Fail Safe\" and \"WarGames\".\n\nA command center is used as the headquarters of the Power Rangers in the \"Mighty Morphin Power Rangers\" television series.\n\nCommand centers are used in the game \"\" to train Workers and Dozers, provide vision, and command special weapons.\n\n"}
{"id": "17077434", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17077434", "title": "Comparative Toxicogenomics Database", "text": "Comparative Toxicogenomics Database\n\nThe Comparative Toxicogenomics Database (CTD) is a public website and research tool launched in November 2004 that curates scientific data describing relationships between chemicals/drugs, genes/proteins, diseases, taxa, phenotypes, GO annotations, pathways, and interaction modules.\nThe database is maintained by the Department of Biological Sciences at North Carolina State University.\n\nThe Comparative Toxicogenomics Database (CTD) is a public website and research tool that curates scientific data describing relationships between chemicals, genes/proteins, diseases, taxa, phenotypes, GO annotations, pathways, and interaction modules, launched on November 12, 2004. \nThe database is maintained by the Department of Biological Sciences at North Carolina State University.\n\nOne of the primary goals of CTD is to advance the understanding of the effects of environmental chemicals on human health on the genetic level, a field called toxicogenomics.\n\nThe etiology of many chronic diseases involves interactions between environmental factors and genes that modulate important physiological processes. Chemicals are an important component of the environment. Conditions such as asthma, cancer, diabetes, hypertension, immunodeficiency, and Parkinson's disease are known to be influenced by the environment; however, the molecular mechanisms underlying these correlations are not well understood. CTD may help resolve these mechanisms. The most up-to-date extensive list of peer-reviewed scientific articles about CTD is available at their publications page\n\nCTD is a unique resource where biocurators read the scientific literature and manually curate four types of core data:\n\n\nBy integrating the above four data sets, CTD automatically constructs putative chemical-gene-phenotype-disease networks to illuminate molecular mechanisms underlying environmentally-influenced diseases.\n\nThese inferred relationships are statistically scored and ranked and can be used by scientists and computational biologists to generate and verify testable hypotheses about toxicogenomic mechanisms and how they relate to human health.\n\nUsers can search CTD to explore scientific data for chemicals, genes, diseases, or interactions between any of these three concepts. Currently, CTD integrates toxicogenomic data for vertebrates and invertebrates.\n\nCTD integrates data from or hyperlinks to these databases:\n\n"}
{"id": "78449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78449", "title": "Developing country", "text": "Developing country\n\nA developing country (or a low and middle income country (LMIC), less developed country, less economically developed country (LEDC), or underdeveloped country) is a country with a less developed industrial base and a low Human Development Index (HDI) relative to other countries. However, this definition is not universally agreed upon. There is also no clear agreement on which countries fit this category. A nation's GDP per capita compared with other nations can also be a reference point.\n\nThe term \"developing\" describes a currently observed situation and not a changing dynamic or expected direction of progress. Since the late 1990s, developing countries tended to demonstrate higher growth rates than developed countries. Developing countries include, in decreasing order of economic growth or size of the capital market: newly industrialized countries, emerging markets, frontier markets, least developed countries. Therefore, the least developed countries are the poorest of the developing countries.\n\nDeveloping countries tend to have some characteristics in common. For example, with regards to health risks, they commonly have: low levels of access to safe drinking water, sanitation and hygiene; energy poverty; high levels of pollution (e.g. air pollution, indoor air pollution, water pollution); high proportion of people with tropical and infectious diseases (neglected tropical diseases); high number of road traffic accidents. Often, there is also widespread poverty, low education levels, inadequate access to family planning services, corruption at all government levels and a lack of so-called good governance. Effects of global warming (climate change) are expected to impact developing countries more than wealthier countries, as most of them have a high \"climate vulnerability\".\n\nThe Sustainable Development Goals, by the United Nations, were set up to help overcome many of these problems. Development aid or development cooperation is financial aid given by governments and other agencies to support the economic, environmental, social and political development of developing countries.\n\nThe UN acknowledges that it has \"no established convention for the designation of \"developed\" and \"developing\" countries or areas\". According to its so-called M49 standards, published in 1999:The designations \"developed\" and \"developing\" are intended for statistical convenience and do not necessarily express a judgement about the stage reached by a particular country or area in the development process.\n\nThe UN implies that developing countries are those not on a tightly defined list of developed countries:\nHowever, under other criteria, some countries are at an intermediate stage of development, or, as the International Monetary Fund (IMF) put it, following the fall of the Soviet Union, \"countries in transition\": all those of Central and Eastern Europe (including Central European countries that still belonged to the \"Eastern Europe Group\" in the UN institutions); the former Soviet Union (USSR) countries in Central Asia (Kazakhstan, Uzbekistan, Kyrgyzstan, Tajikistan and Turkmenistan); and Mongolia. By 2009, the IMF's World Economic Outlook classified countries as advanced, emerging, or developing, depending on \"(1) per capita income level, (2) export diversification—so oil exporters that have high per capita GDP would not make the advanced classification because around 70% of its exports are oil, and (3) degree of integration into the global financial system\"\n\nAlong with the current level of development, countries can also be classified by how much their level of development has changed over a specific period of time.\n\nIn the 2016 edition of its World Development Indicators, the World Bank made a decision to no longer distinguish between “developed” and “developing” countries in the presentation of its data, considering the two-category distinction outdated. Instead, the World Bank classifies countries into four groups, based on Gross National Income per capita, re-set each year on July 1. In 2016, the four categories in US dollars were:\n\n\nKofi Annan, former Secretary General of the United Nations, defined a developed country as \"one that allows all its citizens to enjoy a free and healthy life in a safe environment\".\n\nDevelopment can be measured by economic or human factors. Developing countries are, in general, countries that have not achieved a significant degree of industrialization relative to their populations, and have, in most cases, a medium to low standard of living. There is an association between low income and high population growth. The development of a country is measured with statistical indexes such as income per capita (per person), gross domestic product per capita, life expectancy, the rate of literacy, freedom index and others. The UN has developed the Human Development Index (HDI), a compound indicator of some of the above statistics, to gauge the level of human development for countries where data is available. The UN had set Millennium Development Goals from a blueprint developed by all of the world's countries and leading development institutions, in order to evaluate growth. These goals ended in 2015, to be superseded by the Sustainable Development Goals.\n\nThe concept of the developing nation is found, under one term or another, in numerous theoretical systems having diverse orientations — for example, theories of decolonization, liberation theology, Marxism, anti-imperialism, modernization, social change and political economy.\n\nAnother important indicator is the sectoral changes that have occurred since the stage of development of the country. On an average, countries with a 50% contribution from the secondary sector (manufacturing) have grown substantially. Similarly countries with a tertiary sector stronghold also see a greater rate of economic development.\n\nThere are several terms used to classify countries into rough levels of development. Classification of any given country differs across sources, and sometimes these classifications or the specific terminology used is considered disparaging. Use of the term \"market\" instead of \"country\" usually indicates specific focus on the characteristics of the countries' capital markets as opposed to the overall economy.\n\n\nDeveloping countries can also be categorized by geography:\n\nOther classifications include:\n\nThere is criticism for using the term \"developing country\". The term could imply inferiority of this kind of country compared with a developed country. It could assume a desire to develop along the traditional Western model of economic development which a few countries, such as Cuba and Bhutan, choose not to follow. Alternative measurements such as gross national happiness have been suggested as important indicators.\n\nThe classification of countries as \"developing\" implies that other countries are developed. This bipartite division is contentious.\n\nTo moderate the euphemistic aspect of the word \"developing\", international organizations have started to use the term less economically developed country for the poorest nations—which can, in no sense, be regarded as developing. This highlights that the standard of living across the entire developing world varies greatly. Other terms sometimes used are less developed countries, underdeveloped nations, and non-industrialized nations. Conversely, developed countries, most economically developed countries, industrialized nations are the opposite end of the spectrum.\n\nOver the past few decades since the fall of the Soviet Union and the end of the Cold War, the term \"Third World\" has been used interchangeably with developing countries, but the concept has become outdated in recent years as it no longer represents the current political or economic state of the world. The three-world model arose during the Cold War to define countries aligned with NATO (the First World), the Communist Bloc (the Second World, although this term was less used), or neither (the Third World). Strictly speaking, \"Third World\" was a political, rather than an economic, grouping.\n\nThe term \"Global South\" began to be used more widely since about 2004. It can also include poorer \"southern\" regions of wealthy \"northern\" countries. The Global South refers to these countries' \"interconnected histories of colonialism, neo-imperialism, and differential economic and social change through which large inequalities in living standards, life expectancy, and access to resources are maintained\".\n\nMost developing countries have these criteria in common:\n\nAccording to UN-Habitat, around 33% of the urban population in the developing world in 2012, or about 863 million people, lived in slums. In 2012, the proportion of urban population living in slums was highest in Sub-Saharan Africa (62%), followed by South Asia (35%), Southeast Asia (31%) and East Asia (28%).\n\nThe UN-Habitat reports that 43% of urban population in developing countries and 78% of those in the least developed countries are slum dwellers.\n\nSlums form and grow in different parts of the world for many different reasons. Causes include rapid rural-to-urban migration, economic stagnation and depression, high unemployment, poverty, informal economy, forced or manipulated ghettoization, poor planning, politics, natural disasters and social conflicts. For example, as populations expand in poorer countries, rural people are moving to cities in an extensive urban migration that is resulting in the creation of slums.\n\nIn some cities, especially in countries in Southern Asia and sub-Saharan, slums are not just marginalized neighborhoods holding a small population; slums are widespread, and are home to a large part of urban population. These are sometimes called \"slum cities\".\n\nSeveral forms of violence against women are more prevalent in developing countries than in other parts of the world. For example, dowry violence and bride burning is associated with India, Bangladesh and Nepal. Acid throwing is also associated with these countries, as well as in Southeast Asia, including Cambodia. Honor killing is associated with the Middle East and South Asia. Marriage by abduction is found in Ethiopia, Central Asia and the Caucasus. Abuse related to payment of bride price (such as violence, trafficking and forced marriage) is linked to parts of Sub-Saharan Africa and Oceania.\n\nFemale genital mutilation is another form of violence against women which is still occurring in many developing countries. It is found mostly in Africa, and to a lesser extent in the Middle East and some other parts of Asia. Developing countries with the highest rate of women who have been cut are Somalia (with 98 per cent of women affected), Guinea (96 per cent), Djibouti (93 per cent), Egypt (91 per cent), Eritrea (89 per cent), Mali (89 per cent), Sierra Leone (88 per cent), Sudan (88 per cent), Gambia (76 per cent), Burkina Faso (76 per cent), and Ethiopia (74 per cent). Due to globalization and immigration, FGM is spreading beyond the borders of Africa and Middle East, to countries such as Australia, Belgium, Canada, France, New Zealand, the U.S., and UK.\n\nThe Istanbul Convention prohibits female genital mutilation (Article 38). As of 2016, FGM has been legally banned in many African countries.\n\nPeople in developing countries usually have a lower life expectancy than people in developed countries.\n\nUndernutrition is more common in developing countries. Certain groups have higher rates of undernutrition, including women—in particular while pregnant or breastfeeding—children under five years of age, and the elderly. Malnutrition in children and stunted growth of children is the cause for more than 200 million children under five years of age in developing countries not reaching their developmental potential. About 165 million children were estimated to have stunted growth from malnutrition in 2013. In some developing countries, overnutrition in the form of obesity is beginning to present within the same communities as undernutrition.\n\nThe following list shows the further significant environmentally-related causes or conditions, as well as certain diseases with a strong environmental component:\n\nAccess to water, sanitation and hygiene (WASH) services is at very low levels in many developing countries. In 2015 the World Health Organization (WHO) estimated that \"1 in 3 people, or 2.4 billion, are still without sanitation facilities\" while 663 million people still lack access to safe and clean drinking water. The estimate in 2017 by JMP states that 4.5 billion people currently do not have safely managed sanitation. The majority of these people live in developing countries.\n\nAbout 892 million people, or 12 per cent of the global population, practiced open defecation instead of using toilets in 2016. Seventy-six per cent (678 million) of the 892 million people practicing open defecation in the world live in just seven countries. India is the country with the highest number of people practicing open defecation. Further countries with a high number of people openly defecating are Nigeria (47 million), followed by Indonesia (31 million), Ethiopia (27 million), Pakistan (23 million), Niger (14 million) and Sudan (11 million).\n\nSustainable Development Goal 6 is one of 17 Sustainable Development Goals established by the UN in 2015. It calls for clean water and sanitation for all people. This is particularly relevant for people in developing countries.\n\nIn 2009, about 1.4 billion of people in the world lived without electricity, and 2.7 billion relied on wood, charcoal, and dung (dry animal dung fuel) for home energy requirements. This lack of access to modern energy technology limits income generation, blunts efforts to escape poverty, affects people's health, and contributes to global deforestation and climate change. Small-scale renewable energy technologies and distributed energy options, such as onsite solar power and improved cookstoves, offer rural households modern energy services.\n\nRenewable energy can be particularly suitable for developing countries. In rural and remote areas, transmission and distribution of energy generated from fossil fuels can be difficult and expensive. Producing renewable energy locally can offer a viable alternative.\n\nRenewable energy can directly contribute to poverty alleviation by providing the energy needed for creating businesses and employment. Renewable energy technologies can also make indirect contributions to alleviating poverty by providing energy for cooking, space heating, and lighting.\n\nKenya is the world leader in the number of solar power systems installed per capita.\n\nIndoor air pollution in developing nations is a major health hazard. A major source of indoor air pollution in developing countries is the burning of biomass. Three billion people in developing countries across the globe rely on biomass in the form of wood, charcoal, dung, and crop residue, as their domestic cooking fuel. Because much of the cooking is carried out indoors in environments that lack proper ventilation, millions of people, primarily poor women and children face serious health risks.\n\nGlobally, 4.3 million deaths were attributed to exposure to IAP in developing countries in 2012, almost all in low and middle income countries. The South East Asian and Western Pacific regions bear most of the burden with 1.69 and 1.62 million deaths, respectively. Almost 600,000 deaths occur in Africa. An earlier estimate from 2000 but the death toll between 1.5 million and 2 million deaths.\n\nFinding an affordable solution to address the many effects of indoor air pollution is complex. Strategies include improving combustion, reducing smoke exposure, improving safety and reducing labor, reducing fuel costs, and addressing sustainability.\n\nWater pollution is a major problem in many developing countries. It requires ongoing evaluation and revision of water resource policy at all levels (international down to individual aquifers and wells). It has been suggested that water pollution is the leading worldwide cause of death and diseases, and that it accounts for the deaths of more than 14,000 people daily.\n\nIndia and China are two countries with high levels of water pollution: An estimated 580 people in India die of water pollution related illness (including waterborne diseases) every day. About 90 per cent of the water in the cities of China is polluted. As of 2007, half a billion Chinese had no access to safe drinking water.\n\nFurther details of water pollution in several countries, including many developing countries:\n\nThe effects of global warming such as extreme weather events, droughts, floods, biodiversity loss, disease and sea level rise are dangerous for humans and the environment. Developing countries are the least able to adapt to climate change (and are therefore called \"highly climate vulnerable\") due to their relatively low levels of wealth, technology, education, infrastructure and access to resources. This applies to many countries in Sub-Saharan Africa or Small Island Developing States. Some of those island states are likely to face total inundation. Fragile states or failed states like Afghanistan, Haiti, Myanmar, Sierra Leone, and Somalia are among the worst affected.\n\nClimate vulnerability has been quantified in the Climate Vulnerability Monitor reports of 2010 and 2012. Climate vulnerability in developing countries occurs in four impact areas: health, extreme weather, habitat loss, and economic stress. A report by the Climate Vulnerability Monitor in 2012 estimated that climate change causes 400,000 deaths on average each year, mainly due to hunger and communicable diseases in developing countries. These effects are most severe for the world’s poorest countries.\n\nA changing climate also results in economic burdens. The economies in Least Developed Countries have lost an average of 7% of their gross domestic product for the year 2010, mainly due to reduced labor productivity. Rising sea levels cost 1% of GDP to the least developed countries in 2010 – 4% in the Pacific – with 65 billion dollars annually lost from the world economy. Another example is the impact on fisheries: approximately 40 countries are acutely vulnerable to the impact of greenhouse gas emissions on fisheries. Developing countries with large fisheries sectors are particularly affected.\n\nIn many cases, developing countries produce only small quantities of greenhouse gas emissions per capita but are very vulnerable to the negative effects of global warming. Such countries include Comoros, The Gambia, Guinea-Bissau, São Tomé and Príncipe, Solomon Islands and Vanuatu - they have been called \"forced riders\" as opposed to the \"free riders\". Internationally there is recognition of this issue, which is known under the term \"climate justice\". It has been a key topic at the United Nations Climate Change Conferences (COP).\n\nDuring the Cancún COP16 in 2010, donor countries promised an annual $100 billion by 2020 through the Green Climate Fund for developing countries to adapt to climate change. However, concrete pledges by developed countries have not been forthcoming. Emmanuel Macron (President of France) said at the 2017 United Nations Climate Change Conference in Bonn (COP 23): \"Climate change adds further injustice to an already unfair world\".\n\nClimate stress is likely to add to existing migration patterns in developing countries and beyond but is not expected to generate entirely new flows of people. A report by World Bank in 2018 estimated that around 143 million people in three regions (Sub-Saharan Africa, South Asia, and Latin America) could be forced to move within their own countries to escape the slow-onset impacts of climate change. They will migrate from less viable areas with lower water availability and crop productivity and from areas affected by rising sea level and storm surges.\n\nEconomic development and climate are inextricably linked, particularly around poverty, gender equality, and energy. Tackling climate change will only be possible if the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) are met (goal number 13 is on climate action).\n\nOver the last few decades, global population growth has largely been driven by developing countries, which often have higher birth rates (higher fertility rate) than developed countries. According to the United Nations, family planning can help to slow population growth and decrease poverty in these countries.\n\n\n\nThe following are considered developing economies according to the International Monetary Fund's World Economic Outlook Database, October 2018.\n\nCountries not listed by IMF\nThe following, including the Four Asian Tigers and new Eurozone European countries, were considered developing countries and regions until the '90s, and are now listed as advanced economies (developed countries and regions) by the IMF. Time in brackets is the time to be listed as advanced economies.\n\nThree economies lack data before being listed as advanced economies. Because of the lack of data, it is difficult to judge whether they were advanced economies or developing economies before being listed as advanced economies.\n\nFive countries belong to the \"emerging markets\" groups and are together called the BRICS countries: \n"}
{"id": "1378270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1378270", "title": "Dzyarzhynskaya Hara", "text": "Dzyarzhynskaya Hara\n\nDzyarzhynskaya Hara (Belarusian Дзяржынская гара \"Dziaržynskaja hara\", ) is the highest point in Belarus. The hill is 345 meters (1,130 ft) above sea level and is located west of Minsk, near Dzyarzhynsk, in the village Skirmuntava. The original name of the hill was Svyataya hara (Святая гара, “Holy mountain”). In 1958 the hill was renamed \"Dzyarzhynskaya hara\", after Felix Dzerzhinsky, the founder of the NKVD/KGB.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9950217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9950217", "title": "Eastern journey of Nicholas II", "text": "Eastern journey of Nicholas II\n\nThe Eastern journey of Nicholas II in 1890–91 was a journey made by Nicholas Alexandrovich–then Tsesarevich of Russia–around the greater part of the Eurasian continent. \nThe total length of the journey exceeded 51,000 kilometres, including 15,000 km of railway and 22,000 km of sea routes. During his visit to the Empire of Japan, Nicholas was the target of a failed assassination attempt.\n\nAfter the Grand Embassy of Peter the Great, a long trip for educational purposes became an important part of training for the state activity of the members of the Russian Imperial house. In 1890 Emperor Alexander III of Russia decided to establish the Trans-Siberian Railway and his heir Tsesarevich Nicholas took part in the opening ceremony.\n\nOn 23 October, after a church service in Gatchina, the Tsesarevich went by train via Vienna to Trieste where he boarded the cruiser \"Pamiat Azova\" (\"Memory of Azov\"). This route was selected because of probable diplomatic difficulties with the Ottoman Empire, which wanted to keep the straits of Bosporus and Dardanelles closed.\n\nFrom Trieste the expedition came to the port Piraeus, where Nicholas met his godmother Olga Konstantinovna of Russia and her husband King George I of Greece. Their son Prince George of Greece and Denmark was included into the flagship's crew as an officer. From Greece the Tsesarevich sailed to Port Said in Egypt. While his ship passed through the Suez Canal, Nicholas with his retinue travelled along the Nile, going upriver to Aswan.\n\nFrom Suez they went to Aden and on 11 December arrived in Bombay. Here Nicholas started a long trans-Indian trip, which ended in Colombo, Ceylon. In India Nicholas visited many important places, including the Taj Mahal and the Harimandir Sahib (Golden Temple) and bought numerous exotic works of art, later transferred to several Russian museums.\n\nLeaving Ceylon on 31 January, the expedition continued to Singapore, the island of Java and Bangkok. In Siam the future Emperor spent a week as a guest of King Rama V. Nicholas received an Order and precious gifts. On 13 March, he reached Nanking in China, where he visited tea plantations and factories.\n\nOn 15 April 1891, accompanied by six ships of the Imperial Russian Navy, Nicholas arrived in the Empire of Japan. The Russian Pacific Fleet with the Tsesarevich first called on Kagoshima, then Nagasaki, and then Kobe. From Kobe, the Tsesarevich went to Kyoto, where he was met by a delegation headed by Prince Arisugawa Taruhito. Prince Nicholas showed interest in the Japanese traditional crafts, had a tattoo on his body, and bought an ornamental hairpin for a Japanese passer-by. On 29 April, in Ōtsu, he was attacked by one of the Japanese police escort. The Japanese government apologised profusely, and Emperor Meiji himself came to accompany Nicholas back to the Russian ships.\n\nOn 7 May Nicholas left Kobe, and four days later arrived in Vladivostok, where he accomplished the official part of his mission. This leg of the journey was on the steam yacht St George of the Royal Yacht Squadron in the company of its owner, Ernest Wythes, of Copped Hall. He then returned across the entire length of Russia back to Saint Petersburg. He travelled overland and by river boat via Khabarovka, Blagoveshchensk, Nerchinsk, Chita, Irkutsk, Tomsk, Surgut, Tobolsk, Tara, Omsk, and Orenburg, and then returned by train to St. Petersburg. A number of Siberian cities erected triumphal arches to celebrate the visit of the future emperor.\n\n\nPrince Esper Ukhtomsky also took part in the journey, and collected important ethnographic notes about the places he visited. Later he published an illustrated three-volume story of this voyage. More than 200 photos were taken by Vladimir Mendeleyev, a son of Dmitry Mendeleyev, who was a member of the \"Memory of Azov\" crew.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28737430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28737430", "title": "GPS watch", "text": "GPS watch\n\nA GPS watch is a device with integrated GPS receiver that is worn as a single unit strapped onto a wrist, in the manner of a bracelet. The watch can have other features and capabilities depending on its intended purpose and be a smartwatch. GPS watches are most often used for sports and fitness purposes. Many can connect to external sensors by the wireless ANT+ protocol, and/or to a computer by USB to transfer data and configuration. Common sensors used are heart rate monitors and footpods (running cadence and speed sensor). A footpod can be used to supplement or replace GPS data, such as providing treadmill speed and distance for the watch to log and share. Recharging by USB is commonplace.\n\n\nA GPS watch is commonly a sport watch (a device used for sports and exercise in general rather than just GPS functionally). It may be designed for one particular sport or other purpose, or provide modes and features to suit several.\n\nExamples of common purposes:\n\n\nThese devices offer similar functions to GPS watches,\nbut measure speed and distance using a motion sensor (built-in, or a footpod attached to a shoe), instead of GPS.\nSince they do not rely on GPS, they can work indoors, but do not track location data for mapping. Certain models include heart rate monitoring, either built-in or through a chest-worn sensor. There are also a wide variety of watches that measure only heart rate and time.\n\n"}
{"id": "67302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=67302", "title": "Geography of Belgium", "text": "Geography of Belgium\n\nBelgium is a federal state located in Western Europe, bordering the North Sea. Belgium shares borders with France (556 km), Germany (133 km), Luxembourg (130 km) and the Netherlands (478 km). Belgium comprises the regions of Flanders, Wallonia and Brussels.\n\nTotal renewable water resources: 18.3 cu km (2011)\n\nFreshwater withdrawal (domestic/industrial/agricultural):\n<br>\"total:\" 6.22 cu km/yr (12%/88%/1%)\n<br>\"per capita:\" 589.8 cu m/yr (2007)\n\nNatural hazards:\nflooding is a threat in areas of reclaimed coastal land, protected from the sea by concrete dikes\n\nGeography - note:\ncrossroads of Western Europe; majority of West European capitals within 1,000  km of Brussels which is the seat of both the EU and NATO\n\nLongest Distances: 280 km SE-NW/ 222 km NE-SW\n\nBelgium has an area of 30,528 square kilometers, with 16,844 square kilometers for Wallonia, 13,522 square kilometers for Flanders and 161 square kilometres for the Brussels Capital Region. By provinces, the area is distributed as such:\n\nTo get the total area of Belgium, the surface of the Brussels-Capital Region should be added to the list, since Brussels is not in any Belgian province anymore since the province of Brabant has been split. Belgium has also 3,462 square kilometers of sea territories in the North Sea. On 29 May 2000, 2,000 square meters were granted by the Netherlands to Belgium (a piece of land in Zelzate along the Ghent–Terneuzen Canal).\n\nCompared to other countries, Belgium is 44% larger than Wales in the United Kingdom and about the size of Maryland in the United States. Belgium is actually used as an unusual unit of measurement in comparing country sizes.\n\nIn November 2016, Belgium and the Netherlands agreed to cede small, uninhabited parcels of land to reflect a change in course of the river Meuse (or Maas, in Dutch). The land swap is to take effect as of 2018.\n\nBelgium has three main geographical regions: the coastal plain in the north-west, the central plateau, and the Ardennes uplands in the south-east. The coastal plain consists mainly of sand dunes and polders. Polders are areas of land, close to or below sea level that have been reclaimed from the sea, from which they are protected by dikes or, further inland, by fields that have been drained with canals. The second geographical region, the central plateau, lies further inland. This is a smooth, slowly rising area that has many fertile valleys and is irrigated by many waterways. Here one can also find rougher land, including caves and small gorges. The third geographical region, called the Ardennes, is more rugged than the first two. It is a thickly forested plateau, very rocky and not very good for farming, which extends into northern France and in Germany where it is named Eifel. This is where much of Belgium's wildlife can be found. Belgium's highest point, the Signal de Botrange is located in this region at only . Belgium has relatively few natural lakes and none of any great size.\n\nNotable natural regions include the Ardennes, Campine and High Fens.\n\nAll of Belgium is drained into the North Sea, except the municipality of Momignies (Macquenoise), which is drained by the Oise river into the English Channel. Three major rivers flow into the sea: the Scheldt (200 km in Belgium, 350 km in total), the Meuse (183 km in Belgium, 925 km in total) and the Yser (50 km in Belgium, 78 km in total). Other rivers are the Rupel, Senne, Sambre, Lesse, Ourthe, Lys and Dijle. The main lakes include the Lake Genval, Lake Bütgenbach, Lake Eau d'Heure, Lake Gileppe, Lake Eupen and Lake Robertville.\n\nBelgium has also many artificial waterways or canals, among others the Brussels–Scheldt Maritime Canal, the Brussels–Charleroi Canal, the Canal du Centre and the Albert Canal.\n\nThe Belgian climate, like most of northwest Europe, is maritime temperate, with significant precipitation in all seasons (Köppen climate classification: \"Cfb\"; the average temperature is in January, and in July; the average precipitation is in January, and in July). Belgium usually has cool winters but temperatures as low as -16 °C (3 °F) have been registered and summers are comfortably warm but temperatures can occasionally rise as high as 30 °C (86 °F).\n\nBelgium's highest point is the Signal de Botrange at 694 meters above the sea level. Other hills in Belgium include the Kemmelberg (159 m high) and the Koppenberg (77 m high) both known as part of the route of the cycle races Gent–Wevelgem and the Tour of Flanders respectively.\n\nThis is a list of the extreme points of Belgium, the points that are farther north, south, east, west, high or low than any other location.\n\nThe Belgian National Geographic Institute calculated that the central point of Belgium lies at coordinates , in Nil-Saint-Vincent-Saint-Martin in the municipality of Walhain.\n\nNatural resources in Belgium include construction materials, silica sand and carbonates. Belgium used to have coal mines. As of 2012, the land use was as follows:\n\nAs of 2007, the estimated area of irrigated land was of 233.5 km².\n\nBecause of its high population density and location in the center of Western Europe, Belgium faces serious environmental problems. A 2003 report suggested that the water in Belgium's rivers was of the lowest quality in Europe, and bottom of the 122 countries studied. The environment is exposed to intense pressures from human activities: urbanization, dense transportation network, industry, extensive animal breeding, and crop cultivation; air and water pollution also have repercussions for neighboring countries; uncertainties regarding federal and regional responsibilities (now resolved) have slowed progress in tackling environmental challenges.\n\nThe main cities in Belgium in terms of population are Brussels, Antwerp, Ghent, Charleroi and Liège. Other notable cities include Bruges, Namur, Leuven, Mons and Mechelen.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22917449", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22917449", "title": "Geoscope", "text": "Geoscope\n\nThe Geoscope was a proposal by Buckminster Fuller in 1962 to create a globe, which would be covered in colored lights so that it could function as a large spherical display. It was envisioned that the Geoscope would be connected to computers which would allow it to display both historical and current data, and enable people to visualize large scale patterns around the globe.\n\nMany of Fuller's ideas for the functions of the Geoscope are now being realized by virtual globes. \n\nFuller did not limit his use of the term \"Geoscope\" to the diameter globe proposed for installation near the U.N. He also used it to refer to smaller globes to be viewed from the inside outwards toward the stars.\n\nParaphrased from \"Critical Path\":\n"}
{"id": "3178337", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3178337", "title": "Golden Needle Sewing School", "text": "Golden Needle Sewing School\n\nThe Golden Needle Sewing School was an underground school for women in Herat, Afghanistan, during the rule of the Taliban. Because women were not allowed to be educated under the strict interpretation of Islamic law introduced by the Taliban, women writers belonging to the Herat Literary Circle set up a group called the Sewing Circles of Herat, which founded the Golden Needle Sewing School in or around 1996.\n\nWomen would visit the school three times a week, ostensibly to sew, but would instead hear lectures given by professors of literature from Herat University. Children playing outside would alert the group if the religious police approached, giving them time to hide their books and pick up sewing equipment. Herat may have been the most oppressed area under the Taliban, according to Christina Lamb, author of \"The Sewing Circles of Herat\", because it was a cultured city and mostly Shi'a, both of which the Taliban opposed. She told Radio Free Europe:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36298578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36298578", "title": "Herbert Wilhelmy", "text": "Herbert Wilhelmy\n\nHerbert Wilhelmy (* February 4, 1910 in Sondershausen; † February 1, 2003 in Tübingen) was a German geographer. Wilhelmy has made significant impact in the area of Latin American regional geography, with a focus on climatic geomorphology and, especially, morphogenetic urban geography.\n\nWilhelmy studied geography, geology und ethnology at the universities of Gießen, Bonn, Vienna (1930) and Leipzig. In 1932 he finished his doctoral degree—supervised by Alfred Hettner's disciple Heinrich Schmitthenner—that treated the geomorphology of western Bulgaria \"Die Oberflächenformen des Iskergebietes: Eine Morphogenese Westbulgariens\". Also his Habilitation in Kiel, as Oskar Schmieder's assistant (from 1932), was dedicated to the Bulgarian Balkan mountains' settlement and economy—\"Hoch-Bulgarien\": \"Die ländlichen Siedlungen und die bäuerliche Wirtschaft\" (1935), \"Sofia, Wandlungen einer Großstadt zwischen Orient und Okzident\" (1936). He worked at the Universität Kiel 1939–1942 (as contracted lecturer), 1942–1954 as associated professor, interrupted by a work period as meteorologist and research director in Ukraine (1941—1943). In 1954 he became full professor at the Universität Stuttgart as Hermann Lautensach's successor. 1959—1960 he researched and taught at the University of California, Berkeley with James J. Parsons—a student of Carl O. Sauer—, generated William M. Denevan's interest for writing a dissertation on the Llanos de Mojos and inspired Chris Field who wrote his dissertation on Southern Andean agricultural terraces. Subsequently he followed Hermann von Wissmann, son of Hermann von Wissmann, and went to the Universität Tübingen, where he retired in 1978. He advised several doctoral and/or post-doctoral students, among others Ralph Jätzold (agricultural geography), Wolfgang Brücher (industrial geography), Axel Borsdorf (settlement geography), Hartmut Leser and Klaus Rother (geomorphology).\n\nWilhelmy was a universalist, whose research interest bridged the full spectra of Physical geography and Human geography. As a pupil of Oskar Schmieder—in turn an advisee of Alfred Hettner and got in contact with Carl O. Sauer at Berkeley—, he dedicated his work to Latin America, in particular to the cities of the subcontinent as well as to the South American lowlands of Argentina and Paraguay (Pampa, Gran Chaco), and northern Colombia. Initially focusing on settlement and agricultural colonization, he later founded the German tradition of Latin Americanist urban geography at Kiel. In this context, he is considered a prominent representative of the cultural-genetic urban geography tradition, which bases on Oskar Schmieder's \"kulturmorphogenetische Länderkunde\" and the concept of cultural regions. Further, he investigated the Indus River basin of Pakistan, where his mentor Oskar Schmieder worked as a Visiting Professor in Karachi, and published monographies on Mayan civilization, Bhutan, and Alexander von Humboldt.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "896609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=896609", "title": "ISO 3166-2:CU", "text": "ISO 3166-2:CU\n\nISO 3166-2:CU is the entry for Cuba in ISO 3166-2, part of the ISO 3166 standard published by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), which defines codes for the names of the principal subdivisions (e.g., provinces or states) of all countries coded in ISO 3166-1.\n\nCurrently for Cuba, ISO 3166-2 codes are defined for 15 provinces and 1 special municipality. The special municipality Isla de la Juventud is not part of any province and administered directly by the central government.\n\nEach code consists of two parts, separated by a hyphen. The first part is , the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code of Cuba. The second part is two digits:\nThe code was assigned to La Habana Province, which was split into Artemisa and Mayabeque in 2011. The codes for the original 14 provinces were assigned roughly from west to east.\n\nSubdivision names are listed as in the ISO 3166-2 standard published by the ISO 3166 Maintenance Agency (ISO 3166/MA).\n\n\"Click on the button in the header to sort each column.\"\n\nThe following changes to the entry are listed on ISO's online catalogue, the Online Browsing Platform:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2462855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2462855", "title": "ISO 3166-2:CY", "text": "ISO 3166-2:CY\n\nISO 3166-2:CY is the entry for Cyprus in ISO 3166-2, part of the ISO 3166 standard published by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO), which defines codes for the names of the principal subdivisions (e.g., provinces or states) of all countries coded in ISO 3166-1.\n\nCurrently for Cyprus, ISO 3166-2 codes are defined for 6 districts.\n\nEach code consists of two parts, separated by a hyphen. The first part is , the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code of Cyprus. The second part is two digits (01–06).\n\nSubdivision names are listed as in the ISO 3166-2 standard published by the ISO 3166 Maintenance Agency (ISO 3166/MA).\n\nISO 639-1 codes are used to represent subdivision names in the following administrative languages:\n\nThere are six districts (el: , \"eparchies\"; tr: ).\nNot all of the territory of the districts is controlled by the government of Cyprus; see Northern Cyprus.\n\nThe British Overseas Territory of Akrotiri and Dhekelia (which consists of military bases) does not have an ISO 3166 code.\n\nThe following changes to the entry are listed on ISO's online catalogue, the Online Browsing Platform:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1920838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1920838", "title": "Ian Cook (geographer)", "text": "Ian Cook (geographer)\n\nIan Cook is Associate Professor of Geography at the University of Exeter in the UK, and formerly senior lecturer in geography at the University of Birmingham, and lecturer at the University of Wales, Lampeter.\n\nBSc in Human Sciences, University College London, 1986; MA Human Geography, University of Kentucky 1992; PhD, University of Bristol, 1997. His cultural geography PhD was highly autobiographical, and took several years to be awarded. He began his academic career at the University of Wales, Lampeter (1993-9), then worked at the University of Birmingham (1999-2007), before moving to Exeter in 2007.\n\nGeographies of commodification, particularly tracing the paths of reference to exotic fruit and fashion items. Cook argues that commodities are connected to the home and bodies, but their origins are often overlooked; we should learn where commodities come from. Ethnographic methods of inquiry, and new media and blogging. He has written more widely on human geography, including one major textbook.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18171647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18171647", "title": "Index of telephone-related articles", "text": "Index of telephone-related articles\n\nThese are some of the links to articles that are telephone related.\n\nSee Category:Telephony for many more links\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22150338", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22150338", "title": "Kajzerica", "text": "Kajzerica\n\nKajzerica is a neighborhood located in the Novi Zagreb – zapad city district of Zagreb, the capital of Croatia. It is located west of Bundek Lake (Jezero Bundek) and east of the Western Rotary and Adriatic Bridge. It has a population of 4,387 (2011).\n\nZagreb Fair and Zagreb Hippodrome are located on Kajzerica. Kajzerica houses the south end of the old pedestrian-only Sava Bridge. Roads provide access to the Dubrovnik Avenue and the Adriatic Bridge and the neighborhood is served by Zagrebački električni tramvaj tram lines 7 and 14 that travel through Novi Zagreb.\n"}
{"id": "1677483", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1677483", "title": "Kanal, Zagreb", "text": "Kanal, Zagreb\n\nKanal is a neighborhood in the city district of Trnje in Zagreb, Croatia. It is located northeast of the intersection of Vukovarska Avenue and Marin Držić Avenue and south of Radnička Road. The population is 1,411 (2011).\n"}
{"id": "20860130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20860130", "title": "Land use statistics by country", "text": "Land use statistics by country\n\nThis article includes the table with land use statistics by country. Countries are sorted by their total cultivated land area which is a sum of total arable land area and total area of permanent crops. Arable land is a land cultivated for crops like wheat, maize, and rice that are replanted after each harvest; permanent crops land is a land cultivated for crops like citrus, coffee, and rubber that are not replanted after each harvest; this also includes land under flowering shrubs, fruit trees, nut trees, and vines, but excludes land under trees grown for wood or timber. Other lands are any lands not arable or under permanent crops; this includes permanent meadows and pastures, forests and woodlands, built-on areas, roads, barren land, etc.\n\nPercentage figures for arable land, permanent crops land and other lands are all taken from CIA World Factbook as well as total land area figures (note that total area of a country is a sum of total land area and total water area). All other figures, including total cultivated land area, are calculated on the basis of this mentioned data.\n"}
{"id": "27693986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27693986", "title": "List of National Historic Sites of Canada in France", "text": "List of National Historic Sites of Canada in France\n\nThis is a list of National Historic Sites of Canada () in France. Canada has designated only two sites outside its borders as National Historic Sites, both of which are war memorials in northern France commemorating Canadian and Newfoundland losses in the First World War.\n\nSimilar to the Sites, three National Historic Events have been designated in France, one related to the First World War, and two related to the Second World War. Both Sites and Events (and those for National Historic Persons, as well) are marked using the same style of federal plaque. The markers do not indicate which designation—a Site, Event, or Person—a subject has been given.\n\nThis list uses the designation names as recognized by the \"Historic Sites and Monuments Board of Canada\", which may not necessarily be the official or colloquial names of the sites.\n\n"}
{"id": "2962298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2962298", "title": "List of ZIP codes in the Philippines", "text": "List of ZIP codes in the Philippines\n\nIn the Philippines, the Philippine ZIP code is used by the Philippine Postal Corporation (Philpost) to simplify the distribution of mail. While in function it is similar to the ZIP code used in the United States, its form and usage are quite different. The use of ZIP codes in the Philippines is not mandatory, however it is highly recommended by Philpost that they be used. Also, unlike American ZIP codes, the Philippine code is a four-digit number representing two things: in Metro Manila, a barangay within a city or city district (as in the case for Manila), and outside Metro Manila, a town or city. Usually, more than one code is issued for areas within Metro Manila, and provincial areas are issued one code for each town and city, with some rare exceptions such as Dasmariñas, Cavite which has three ZIP codes (4114, 4115, and 4126), Los Baños, which has two ZIP codes (4030 and 4031 for the University of the Philippines Los Baños) and Angeles City, Pampanga which has two ZIP codes (2009 and 2024 for Barangay Balibago).\n\nThis article provides a list of Philippine ZIP codes. Cities that have become independent of a province are listed under their former province (as is the practice for statistical purposes).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36559423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36559423", "title": "List of airports in Bonaire", "text": "List of airports in Bonaire\n\nThis is a list of airports in Bonaire. \n\n"}
{"id": "43771984", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43771984", "title": "List of apps with Google Cast support", "text": "List of apps with Google Cast support\n\nThe following is a partial list of apps compatible with Google Cast, and the platforms on which each can run. The first Google Cast receiver released was Google's Chromecast in July 2013; a digital media player in the form of an HDMI dongle, the device streams media wirelessly via Wi-Fi after a selection is made through a supported mobile or web app, such as those listed below. Unofficial Google Cast receivers followed, before Google released a second official receiver, the Nexus Player, in November 2014.\n\nFor information on Chromecast's app history and software development kit, see Chromecast software development kit and compatible apps.\n\n!Name\n!PC*\n!Android\n!iOS\n!Vendor\n!Type\n! | 1.FM Online Radio\n! |2048 4 ChromeCast\n! |2048 for ChromeCast\n! |2048 for ChromeCast\n! | 5by\n! | 9x9.tv\n! | AirAudio\n! | Air Show HD\n! | AirMusic\n! | AirParrot\n! | AlarmDJ\n! | AllCast\n! | AllConnect\n! | Ameba TV\n! | Anime Lib\n! |AOL On\n! |Aquariums on TV via Chromecast\n! |ArcadeCast\n! | ARD<ref>\n"}
{"id": "8048027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8048027", "title": "List of extraterrestrial dune fields", "text": "List of extraterrestrial dune fields\n\nThis is a list of dune fields not on Earth which have been given official names by the International Astronomical Union. Dune fields are named according to the IAU's rules of planetary nomenclature. The relevant descriptor term is undae. As of now, the only two solar system bodies, besides Earth, with named dune fields are Venus and Mars. Dune fields have also been discovered on Saturn's moon Titan, and a field of giant ripples has been identified on comet 67P/Churyumov–Gerasimenko.\n\nThere are three officially named dune fields on Venus. They are named after desert goddesses, as per the IAU's rules. They are listed below.\n\nThere are six officially named dune fields on Mars, which are named after nearby classical albedo features in accordance with the IAU's rules. Five of them lie between 75°N to 85°N, between Planum Boreum and Vastitas Borealis. These dune fields span over 200 degrees of longitude. The sixth, Ogygis Undae, lies on the southern hemisphere of Mars. They are listed below.\n\n\n\n\nA large portion of this article was sourced from the Gazetteer of Planetary Nomenclature, the official IAU database of planetary names.\n"}
{"id": "45511110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45511110", "title": "List of fossiliferous stratigraphic units in Palau", "text": "List of fossiliferous stratigraphic units in Palau\n\n"}
{"id": "51795860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51795860", "title": "List of lighthouses in Bahrain", "text": "List of lighthouses in Bahrain\n\nThis is a list of lighthouses in Bahrain.\n\n"}
{"id": "56077088", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56077088", "title": "List of populated places in Curaçao", "text": "List of populated places in Curaçao\n\nThis article presents a list of populated places in Curaçao. Curaçao is a Lesser Antilles island country in the southern Caribbean Sea and the Dutch Caribbean region, about north of the Venezuelan coast. It is a constituent country () of the Kingdom of the Netherlands.\n\n"}
{"id": "1821162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1821162", "title": "List of postal codes in Mexico", "text": "List of postal codes in Mexico\n\nPostal codes in Mexico are issued by SEPOMEX (Servicio Postal Mexicano). The first 2 digits identify a state (or part thereof); and assignments are done alphabetically by state name, except for codes in the 0xxx-1xxxx range which identify the \"delegaciones\" (boroughs) of Mexico City.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSelena Montes Tsosie\n\n Federal District (FD)\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "756373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756373", "title": "List of postal codes in Sweden", "text": "List of postal codes in Sweden\n\nSwedish Postal Codes are 5-digit codes, known in Swedish as \"Postnummer\". \nPostal Codes in Sweden consist of 5 digits, with a space between 3rd and 4th digits. (114 55)\nThe Swedish Post requires the ISO country code to be used on all items entering Sweden. (SE-114 55)\n\nSwedish Post (\"Posten\") makes small modifications to the postal code system each year.\n\n"}
{"id": "59069851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59069851", "title": "List of renamed places in Pakistan", "text": "List of renamed places in Pakistan\n\nMany traditional places, cities, roads, streets, and buildings names were changed in Pakistan before and after the independence of the country. Here is a list of renamed places in Pakistan.\n\n\n\nAtmaram Street -Bagh-e-Zohra Road;\nBarnes Street -Jamila Street;\nBonus Street -Fatima Jinnah Road;\nBunder Road -M. A. Jinnah Road;\nBurnes Road -Mohammad Bin Qasim Road;\nClark Road -Shahrah-e-Iraq;\nClifton Road -Khayaban-e-Iqbal;\nCommissariat Road- Kiyani Shaheed Road;\nConnaught Road- Chaudhry Rehmat Ali Road;\nCowel Road -Sarmad Road;\nDrigh Road -Shara-e-Faisal;\nElphinstone Street -Zaibunnisa Street;\nEmbankment Road- Nawab Mahabat Khan Road;\nFrere Road- Shahrah-e-Liaquat;\nFrere Street -Dr. Daudpota Road;\nGarden Road- Sir Aga Khan III Road;\nGizri Road -Chaudhry Khaliquzzaman Road;\nGolf Club Road- McLallan Road;\nGrant Road -Hasrat Mohani Road;\nHarchandrai Road- Hussain Bhai Bandukwala \nRoad & Siddiq Wahab Road;\nHarris Road -Aga Khan Road;\nHavelock Road -Aiwan-e-Sadr Road;\nHiradharam Road -Mohammad Ali Bogra Road;\nHira Lal Ganatra Road- Aslam Road;\nHospital Road -Rafiqui Shaheed Road;\nIngle Road- M.R. Kiyani Road;\nInverarity Road- Sarwar Shaheed Road;\nKattyan Road -Stock Exchange Road;\nKingsway -Shahrah-e-Kamal Ata Turk;\nKutchery Road - Dr. Ziauddin Ahmed Road;\nLawrence Road -Nishtar Road ;\nLidbetter Road- Japani Road;\nMansfield Street -Syedna Burhanuddin Road ;\nMcLeod Road- I.I.Chundrigar Road ;\nNapier Road -Shahrah-e-Altaf Hussain;\nNapier Street -Mir Karamali Talpur Road;\nNewnham Road -Fakhr Matri Road ;\nPrincess Street- Chand Bibi Street ;\nQueens Road -Moulvi Tamizuddin Khan Road;\nQueensway -Shahrah-e-Iraq;\nRamachandra Temple Road -Babar Street;\nRampart Road -Adamji Dawood Road;\nScandal Point Road- Club Road;\nSolomon David Road -Suleman Dawood Road ;\nSomerset Street -Raja Ghazanfar Ali Road; \nSrichand Vishindas Road -Haji Kassim Sommra Street;\nTahilram K. Road -G. Allana Road ;\nUdhavdas V. Street -Soomra Gali ;\nUniversity Road - Jamiluddin Aali\nVictoria Road -Abdullah Haroon Road;\nVishwanath Patel Road- Aslam Road;\nWood Street -Talpur Road.\n"}
{"id": "12898197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12898197", "title": "National Elevation Dataset", "text": "National Elevation Dataset\n\nThe National Elevation Dataset (NED) consists of high precision ground surface elevation data for the United States. It was maintained by the USGS and all the data is in the public domain. Since the 3D Elevation Program came online, the NED was subsumed into The National Map as one of its layers of information.\n\nThe NED dataset is a compilation of data from a variety of existing high-precision datasets such as LiDAR data (see also National LIDAR Dataset - USA), contour maps, USGS DEM collection, SRTM and other sources which were reorganized and combined into a seamless dataset, designed to cover all the United States territory in its continuity.\n\nData is available in a few popular formats such as ESRI ArcGRID, GeoTIFF, BIL, GridFloat, and a few others.\n\nDepending on area location, the datasets are provided with 1/9 (about 3 meters), 1/3 (about 10 m) and 1-arcsecond (about 30 m) precision.\n\n"}
{"id": "3540771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3540771", "title": "National Register of Historic Places listings in American Samoa", "text": "National Register of Historic Places listings in American Samoa\n\nThis is a list of the buildings, sites, districts, and objects listed on the National Register of Historic Places in American Samoa. There are currently 31 listed sites spread across the three districts of American Samoa. There are no sites listed on the unorganized atoll of Swains Island.\n\nThe following are approximate tallies of current listings in American Samoa on the National Register of Historic Places. These counts are based on entries in the National Register Information Database as of April 24, 2008 and new weekly listings posted since then on the National Register of Historic Places web site. There are frequent additions to the listings and occasional delistings and the counts here are not official. Also, the counts in this table exclude boundary increase and decrease listings which modify the area covered by an existing property or district and which carry a separate National Register reference number.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1388815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1388815", "title": "Observation deck", "text": "Observation deck\n\nAn observation deck, observation platform or viewing platform is an elevated sightseeing platform usually situated upon a tall architectural structure such as a skyscraper or observation tower. Observation decks are sometimes enclosed from weather, and a few may include coin-operated telescopes for viewing distant features.\n\nThis is a timeline of the development of world's highest observation decks since the inauguration of the Washington Monument in 1885.\nSee also List of tallest buildings and structures in the world#World's highest observation deck\n\n"}
{"id": "44500179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44500179", "title": "Oort (disambiguation)", "text": "Oort (disambiguation)\n\nOort is a Dutch toponymic surname most commonly referring to the astronomer Jan Oort. \"Oort\" was one spelling of a Middle Dutch word for \"edge\" or \"end\", as in \"the edge of town\". Variant forms are \"Oord\", \"Oordt\" and \"Ort\", as well as \"Van Oort\", \"Van den Oord\" etc. (\"from (the) edge of town\"). People with these surnames include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "498976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=498976", "title": "Orders, decorations, and medals of Hong Kong", "text": "Orders, decorations, and medals of Hong Kong\n\nThe existing Hong Kong honours system was created after transfer of government of Hong Kong to the People's Republic of China as a special administrative region in 1997. Before that, Hong Kong was a British dependent territory and followed the British honours system. The HK SAR Government does not maintain any records of pre 1997 awards including gallantry awards.\n\nThe Grand Bauhinia Medal the highest award under the HKSAR honours and awards system, is to recognise the selected person's lifelong and highly significant contribution to the well-being of Hong Kong. The awardee is entitled to the postnominal letters GBM and the style \"The Honourable\". (Bauhinia, \"Bauhinia blakeana\", is the floral emblem of Hong Kong.)\n\nThe Order of the Bauhinia Star has three classes: Gold, Silver and Bronze.\n\nThe Gold Bauhinia Star (GBS) is awarded to eminent persons who have given very distinguished services to the community or who have rendered public or voluntary services of a very high degree of merit.\n\nThe Silver Bauhinia Star (SBS) is awarded to persons who have taken a leading part in public affairs and/or voluntary work over a long period of time.\n\nThe Bronze Bauhinia Star (BBS) is awarded to persons who have given outstanding service over a long period of time, but in a more limited field or way than that required for the Silver Bauhinia Star.\n\nThe Medal of Honour (MH) is the basic award under the honours system and is awarded in recognition of community service in a district or in a particular field over a long period of time. It is also awarded to non-directorate civil servants who have served with distinction.\n\nThe Order of the Medal for Bravery is awarded for display of bravery in an incident. It too has three classes, Gold, Silver and Bronze.\n\nThe Medal for Bravery (Gold) is awarded for acts of gallantry of the greatest possible heroism or of the most conspicuous courage in circumstances of extreme danger.\n\nThe Medal for Bravery (Silver) is awarded for gallantry of an extremely high order.\n\nThe Medal for Bravery (Bronze) is awarded for exemplary acts of gallantry of a lesser standard.\n\nThe Disciplined Services and ICAC Awards are awarded to officers of the six major disciplined formations as well as the Independent Commission Against Corruption. The disciplined formations are the Hong Kong Police, Hong Kong Fire Services, Hong Kong Immigration Service, Hong Kong Customs and Excise, Hong Kong Correctional Services, and the Government Flying Service. These awards replace the colonial awards issued before July 1997 that had profile of the reigning monarch and different ribbons. There are three types of awards:\n\n\n\n\nThese awards consists of a frame certificate with the Emblem of Hong Kong, name of the award in English and Chinese, name of the recipient (Chinese or English) commending their extraordinary contribution to the community, government or public service:\n\n\nThe order of precedence is listed as follows in postnominals: GBM, GBS, MBG, SBS, MBS, BBS, MBB, MH, JP.\n\nThe nomination is usually made by SAR Government departments, and evaluated by the Honours Committee. The annual Honours List is published in the Gazette of the SAR Government on the Hong Kong Special Administrative Region Establishment Day (1 July)\n\nList of awards available to people in Hong Kong prior to 30 June 1997:\n\nhttps://www.gov.uk/guidance/medals-campaigns-descriptions-and-eligibility#decorations-gallantry-and-distinguished-conduct-medals\n\nOrders, Decorations and Medals conferred on Hong Kong residents or in respect of Hong Kong service up to 30 June 1997:\n<br>\nVictoria Cross (VC)<br>John Robert Osborn (1941)\n\nGeorge Cross (GC)<br>Mateen Ahmed Ansari (1946)<br>Douglas Ford (1946)<br>John Alexander Fraser MC & Bar (1946)<br>Hector Bertram Gray AFM (1946)<br>Lanceray Arthur Newnham (1946)<br>Joseph Hughes (1946)\n\nDistinguished Service Order (DSO)<br>Henry William Moncrieff Stewart OBE, MC (1946)<br>Wells Arnold Bishop (1946)<br>Ernest Hodkinson (1946)<br>Cecil Robert Templer (1946)<br>Evan George Stewart (1946)<br>Arthur John Dewar (1946)\n\nOrder of the British Empire (CBE) for Gallantry<br>Alfred Creighton Collinson (1946)<br>Andrew Peffers OBE (1946)\n\nOrder of the British Empire (OBE) for Gallantry<br>Osmonde Hedworth Farrar (1930)<br>Lindsay Tasman Ride (1942)<br>Keble Theodore Andrews-Levinge (1946)<br>Eustace Levett (1946)<br>John Herbert Price MC (1946)\n\nOrder of the British Empire (MBE) for Gallantry<br>Sher Singh (1945)<br>Victor Stanley Ebbage BEM (1945)<br>Hargraves Milne Howell (1945)<br>William Nichols (1945)<br>Harry Charles Spong(1945)<br>David Louis Strellett (1945)<br>Charles Gentry Turner (1945)<br>Feroze Khan (1945)<br>Sister Elizabeth Mosey (1946)<br>Stanley Gordon Woods (1968)<br>Frederick John Preston (1973)\n\nIndian Order of Merit (IOM)<br>Ali Mohd (1946)<br>Phul Singh (1946)<br>Nawaz Khan (1946)<br>Lakhu Singh (1946)\n\nDistinguished Service Cross (DSC)<br>William Morley Wright (1942)<br>John Christian Bolder DSC & Bar (1942)<br> Arthur Luard Pears (1942)<br>Bruce Graham Clarke (1946)\n\nRoyal Red Cross - Member (RRC)<br>Sister Mary Ann Lockerbie Currie (née Davies; 1946)<br>Sister Margaret Anna North (1946)\n\nMilitary Cross (MC)<br>E.W.M.L. Corbally (1942)<br>R.H.D. Scriven (1942)<br>Ivan Bernard Trevor (1942)<br>David Ronald Holmes (1943)<br>K.A. Munro (1943)<br> P. Steyn (1944)<br>R.A.S. Lane (1944)<br>J.S. McKay (1945)<br>James Allan Ford (1945)<br> Abdul Jabaar (1945)<br>Khan Sherrin (1945)<br>Martin Pryce Weedon (1945)<br>John Stanley Marcus Vintner (1945)<br>Robert Leslie Berridge (1945)<br>Caesar Edward Orway (1945)<br>David Pinkerton (1945)<br>Christopher Mark Maurice Man (1945)<br>Frederick Temple Atkinson (1945)<br>Uriah Laite (1945)<br>Robert William Philip (1945)<br>Thomas Alexander Blackwood (1945)<br>Collison Alexander Blaver (1945)<br>William Francis Nugent (1945)<br>Francis Gavan Power (1945)<br>Michael George Carruthers (1945)<br>B.C. Field (1945)<br>Ivor Phillip Tamworth (1945)<br>E.B. Teesdale (1945)<br>Mehr Khan (1945)<br>Shah Mohamed (1945)<br>Kampta Phasad (1945)<br>Haider Rehman Khan (1945)<br>David Clive Crosby Trench (Solomon Islands; 1946)<br>G.D.M. Williams (1965)\n\nAir Force Cross (AFC)<br>Danny Cheung Kwong (1965)<br>Richard Paul Seymour (1973)<br>Peter Stephen Boyland (1992)<br>Christopher Jeremy Spencer Fynes (1993)<br>Steven Derek Murkin (1993)\n\nRoyal Red Cross - Associate (ARRC)<br>Sister Edith Butlin (1946)<br>Sister Gwendoline Colthorpe (1946)<br>Sister Edith Freda Davies (1946)<br>Sister Kathleen Georgina Christie (1946)<br>Sister Anna May Waters (1946)\n\nDistinguished Conduct Medal (DCM)<br>Kishen Singh (1917)<br>Rur Singh (1917)<br>M.J. Muldowney (1920)<br>Colin Alden Standish (1920)<br>Derek Everard Rix (1920)<br>Arthur David Manning (1920)<br>Albert Edward Miller (1920)<br>Thomas F. Stainton (1920)<br>Charles Albert Clark (1920)<br>Ronald John Routledge (1946)\n\nGeorge Medal (GM)<br>N.G.A. Noble (1947)<br>Ian P. Hyde (Malaya; 1947)<br>Cheung On (1947)<br>Chau Fook (1952)<br>James Hidden (1952)<br>Leung Yiu-tong (1953)<br>P. Muskett (1958)<br>William James Gorman (1960)<br>Edward Louis Hanlon (1964)<br> James Hall Matchett (1968) <br>Choi Chor (1973)<br>James Hogg Bruce (1973)<br>John Caruth Gorman (1973)<br>Leung Shiu-kay (1973)<br>Chiu Yiu-nam (1983)<br>Ng Hung-shek (1994)\n\nKing's Police Medal for Gallantry (KPM)<br>Timothy Murphy (1923)<br>Kenneth Andrew (1928)<br>Roland Henry John Brooks (1947)<br>David Loie Fook-wing (1947)<br>Duncan George MacPherson (1947)<br>Harold Tiplady (1949)<br>Wong Wai Tsoi (1949)<br>Li Fu (1949)<br> Chiu Ho-ching (1949)\n\nQueen's Police Medal for Gallantry (QPM)<br>Cheng Kin Cheung (1955)\n\nIndian Distinguished Service Medal (IDSM)<br>Amanat Ali (1946)\n\nDistinguished Service Medal (DSM)<br>Bernard Charlie Lilley (1946)<br>Albert John White (1946)\n\nMilitary Medal (MM)<br>Ghulam Mohamad (1917), Nihal Singh (1917), Lab Singh (1918), Ghulam Hussain (1918), Tika Khan (1918), A. Hutchins (1919), Patrick John Sheridan (1942), Francis Lee Yiu-piu (1942), D.I. Bosanquet (1943), W.G. Poy (1944), A.A. Iles (1944), E.G. Jones (1944), Walter Ivan Cook (1946), Charles Douglas Goddard (1946), Arthur Philip Hoxby (1946), Puran Singh (1946), Resham Khan (1946), Tularam Singh (1946), Gordon Edward Williamson (1946), Stanley Walter Wright (1946), Emile Gregory Bernard (1946), Seldon Grant Stoddard (1946), Cecil Thomas Whalen (1946), Murray Thomas Goodenough (1946), Lionel Curtis Speller (1946), Kenneth Stanley Cameron (1946), Ronald Edward Atkinson (1946), Meirion Price (1946), John Leslie Varley (1946), Ernest Irwin Bennett (1946), William Henry Morris (1946), Ban Tsan-chuen (1946), H.V. Pearse (1946), C.L. Salter (1946), C.D. Walker (1946), Victor White (1946), David William Yee (1946), Mohd Amir (1946), Alfred Thomas Goschen Lloyd (1946), Chau Sik-wah (1952), Li Hon To (1960), Lui Tong (1960).<br>(NOTE: Further work required for 1946; see http://www.london-gazette.co.uk/issues/37521/supplements/1672)\n\nAir Force Medal (AFM)<br>Keith George Thomas Sturge (1992)\n\nSea Gallantry Medal (SGM) (records incomplete here)<br>JOHN CROPPER, Chief Officer,GEORGE REGINALD JENKINS, Third Officer, BOND HUGGINS, Apprentice, WON JAH, HONG KAM, LAM POW, and LEONG YOE, Seamen, of the SS Bowes Castle; THOMAS LLOYD WILLIAMS, Chief Officer, KENNETH HENRY STUART,Second Officer, HAROLD WAINRIGHT, GEORGE ARTHUR PARKER, STANLEY LEONARD GARRETT, JOHN EDWARD SNAITH, Apprentices, GE LING LOW, Quartermaster, SING YUNG SANG, Boatswain, CHING CHIN FONG, LIN AH YOK, LEE VAN CHAN, CHANG CHIN PAN, CHANG PAN FAH and YING AH PAN, Seamen of the SS Egremont Castle; A. LEXOW, Chief Officer,ROLF FREDERIK MOLTZAU, Second Officer, G. DAKSERHOFF, Third Officer, CHEE AH KUN, Boatswain's Mate, HAN FAT SANG, TSE TOR, and LIN CHANG CHIN, Quartermasters, fireman, and cabin boy who formed part of the boat's crew from the SS Hwah Ping (all 1923); SO HAU, Fireman of SS Paul Beau of Hong Kong (1925)\n\nColonial Police Medal for Gallantry (CPM)<br>Frederick Edward Evelyn Booker, Jack Cooper Fitz-Henry, Chan Ng, William Stirton McHardy, Christopher Stanley Pile, Tam Chung, Tang Ka, Gordon Charles Taylor, Frederick Douglas Bishop Tuckett (1939), George Allan Rodney Wright-Nooth (1946), Roland Henry John Brooks (1947), Charles William Brown (1947), Chan Sang (1947), Ho Yuk (1947), Lok So (1947), William Todd (1947), Yan Fuk (1947), Chan Wing (1948), Chiu Ho-ching (1948), Li Fu (1948), Li Hon-to (1960), Lui Tong (1960), Wong Kai-wan (1962), Cheung Tin (1964), William Roger Deane (1964), John Henry Douglas Bell (1964), Brian Gray Fender (1964), Cheng Yee Hung (1966), Cheung Kwai Chau (1966), Law Kim-chuen (1966), Wu Yun-tsung (1966), Chiu Sau-sum (1968), Trevor John Colley (1968), Kwok Chung (1968), David Pitt (1968), Edward Joseph Stevenson (1968), Tang Wong-yau (1968), Tsang Wing CPM & Bar (1968), Cheung Tin-fat (1972), Roberton James Patterson Burton (1972), Kong Yuk-sut (1972), Leung Kam-ming (1972), Choy Fut-po (1973), Chiu Yiu-chip (1973), Anthony Stuart Conway (1973), Leslie Burton (1973), Peter Michael Mullens (1973), Lun Kam-yat (1973), Luk Kai-lau (1973), Ng Kam-hung (1973), David Wilfred Frederick O'Brien (1973), John Reid (1973), Yau Shou-kit (1973), Chan Kam-ming (1974), Lau Piu (1974)\n\nQueen's Gallantry Medal (QGM)<br>Yip Long-ping (1977), Ho Hing-chuen (1979), Aimansing Limbu (1979), Chan Kwai-fai (1980), Tung Chi-kan (1980), Yeung Chun-hing (1980), Nicholas Alexander McQueen (1981), Lo Wai-shing (1982), Cheung Wai-leung (1982), Chiu Shing-chau (1982), Leung Siu-lin (1984), Timothy Martin Adamson (1984), Martin John Lovatt (1986), Chiu Ka-ping (1987), Li Tam-shing (1989), Lui Tak-wah (1989), Chan Chi-choi (1989), Cheng Kwok-wai (1991), Anthony Martin Leahy (1991), Nicholas John Roberts (1991), Tsang Hung-lit (1991), Yeung Kwok-wing (1993), Nigel Mills (1993), Griffiths (1993), Chan Lun-fat (1993), Cheung Hin-yeung (1993), Yeung Chi-fai (1995), Cheung Kwok Keung (1995), Lee Man-ying (1995), WPC Leung Lai-fun (1995), Barry John Smith (1995), Andrew Mark Steeple (1996), Jason Chan Siu-kei (1997), Ma Hing-keung (1997), Ma Ka-kuen (1997)\n\nBritish Empire Medal for Gallantry (BEM)<br>Jalal Din (1946)<br>Mohammed Afsar (1946)<br>Richard Malig (1947)<br>Emundo Da Silva (1947)<br>David John Leonard (1947) Gordon Cleaver 1953, <br>Peter Anderson (1955)<br>Yu Kwong (1960)<br>Tang Sai-bun (1962)<br>Bhimraj Rai (1962)<br>Lee Nai Liang (1965)<br>David Lawrence Birch (1965)<br>Anthony Charlwood (1968)<br>Jack Cavie (1968)<br>Anthony Roger Prouse (1973)\n\nMentions in Dispatches (MID)<br>Charles Cranes, Albert Archibald Bennett, William Hook, William Barker Bradley, John Edward Dunderdale, James Forsyth Ross, Arthur Beresford Scott, Maurice D'Avignon, George Stuart MacDonnell, Kenneth Edward Porter, Charles John Sharp, Leslie Robert Stickles, James Murray Thom, Charles Watson, John Joseph Fitzpatrick, Edwin Harrison, Lorne Rayburn Latimer, Ernest Charles McFarland, George William McRae, Sydney Albert Sheffer, Edwin George Smith, Frank Brown, Bernard Castonguay, Robert Damant, Morgan Isaac Davies, Aubery Peacock Flegg, Nelson Carlisle Galbraith, Norman Charles Matthews, Lloyd Logan Roblee, James Austen Wallace, Ellis Taylor Edge, Sister E.A. Hills (all 1946)<br>NOTE: Further work required for 1946 Posthumous MID/MID (see http://www.london-gazette.co.uk/issues/37636/start=1, http://www.london-gazette.co.uk/issues/37521/supplements/1672, http://www.london-gazette.co.uk/issues/37704/supplements/4342)\n\nQueen's Commendation for Brave Conduct (QCBC)<br>Donald William Cuthbert, Robert Esson (1954),\nLo Chow, James Steele (1955),\nArthur Checksfield, Ronald Harry George McKinlay (1960),\nWong Kam-wah (1962), \n\nLau Cheung (1963),\nChoi Yuk-shu, Ng Wing-hang (1964),\nJohn Samuel Barker, Peter Christopher Bickmore, Francis Michael Digby Hoyal, Douglas Ralph Humphrey, Mark Gregory Richie, Dunraj Rai, Lakhdham Rai (1968),\nTerence Arthur Berrecloth, Chan Shing-tak, Chan Shing-yuk, Cheung Shu-sing, Trevor George Collins, Hung Sui-to , Paul Kennedy, Kong Kin, Leung Shing-chau, Li Chuen, Liu Chiu-kwan, Lo Shiu-kuen, John Dominic Moran, Pun Wai-cheung, Tam Wai-hung, Tsui Hin-kwing, Wong Shiu-hung, Guy Sanderson Shirra (1973),\n\nYip Kai (1976),\nLam Sai-kit, Lo Wing-tai, Lo Yin-hok, Miu Wa-keung (1977),\nCheung Ching, Chu Yung-san, Jiwanprassad Gurung, Li Wai-leung, Ng Choi-leung (1978),\nChau Kwong-tak, Ng Chung-hung, Dalbahadur Rai, Tang Kwok-fung, To Kwok-chiu (1979),\nLeung Kam-chu, Tsui Pui-ling (1980),\nChan Shiu-fai (1981),\nMohamad Aslam, Wong Chun-fai (1982),\nChan Chung-hing, Ko Wing-wah, Robert Ying Ka-wong (1983),\nChiu Kwok-yin, Li Kei-kit, Ma Shui-lun, Yan Ping-kuen (1984),\nFu Siu-wing, Li Hoi-chin, Ng Kwan-wai (1986),\nWong Kwai-leung (1989),\nKam Man-wei, Wong Chi-hung (1990),\nAndrew Richard Harrison, Lam Kong, Christopher James O'Donnell, John Jamieson Oberg Stoddart, Tam Ting-kai, Tang Yau-keung (1992),\nChau Ka-keung (1994)\n\nQueen's Commendation for Bravery (QCB)<br>Brian James Morris, Stephen John Rule, Wut Chi-wai (1995)<br>Cham Wui-wai, Chan Chi-man, Hon Wing-sang (1996)<br>Wu Wai-cham, Chow Hau-leung (1997)\n\nQueen's Commendation for Bravery in the Air (QCBA)<br>Raymond Chang Yao-teng (1996)<br>Ronald So Chi-yip (1997)\nKings/Queen's Commendation for Valuable Service in the Air (K/QCVSA)<br>\nThe K/QCVSA was originally a British military award for gallantry equivallent to an MID (see above). It was later broadened to include meritorious acts and service by both military and civilian air crew. The award was replaced by the QCVS (non gallantry) and the QCBA (see above) in 1994.\n\nGerald Walter Cussans 1947,<br>Danny Cheung Kong AFC (1962)<br>Argo Chow Chong Yan, Thomas Douglas Lewis, Ronald Percy Smith (1965)<br> Paul Henry Rosentall, Peter Dicky Yip (1983)<br>Edward Ho Dick Sang, Ross Law Siu-hing, Frank James Pilkington, Elton Tang Sing Chung, David Arthur Walmsley, Richard Paul Cooke, Michael William Pedrick (1992)<br>Grant Robertson, Raymong Chang Yao Teng, Jimmy Choi Chiu Ming, Michael Ellis, Mason Ng Wai Cheong (1993)<br>German Tsoi Tak-man (1994)\n\nJustice of the Peace (太平紳士; JP) is a title of honour given by the Government to community leaders, and to certain officials while they are in their terms of offices. Official Justices of the Peace (官守太平紳士) is usually refer to those who is both a government official and a Justice of the Peace. The others may be referred as Non-Official Justice of the Peace (非官守太平紳士). For a person who is related to the New Territories, the Chief Secretary for Administration may appoint him/her as a New Territories Justice of the Peace (新界太平紳士).\n\nJustices of the Peace have no judicial functions, and their main duties include visiting prisons, administering statutory declarations, to serve any advisory panels, and other functions appointed by the Chief Executive.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45087393", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45087393", "title": "Palestine grid", "text": "Palestine grid\n\nThe Palestine grid (Arabic: التربيع الفلسطيني) was the geographic coordinate system used in Mandatory Palestine.\n\nThe system was chosen by the Survey Department of the Government of Palestine in 1922. The projection used was the Cassini-Soldner projection. The central meridian (the line of longitude along which there is no local distortion) was chosen as that passing through a marker on the hill of Mar Elias Monastery south of Jerusalem. The false origin (zero point) of the grid was placed 100 km to the south and west of the Ali el-Muntar hill that overlooks Gaza city. The unit length for the grid was the kilometre; the British units were not even considered.\n\nAt the time the grid was established, there was no intention of mapping the lower reaches of the Negev Desert, but this did not remain true. The fact that those southern regions would have negative north-south coordinate then became a source of confusion, which was solved by adding 1000 to the northern coordinate in that case. For some military purposes, 1000 was added to the north-south coordinates of all locations, so that they then ranged uniformly from about 900 to about 1300.\n\nDuring World War II, a Military Palestine Grid was used that was similar to the Palestine Grid but used the transverse Mercator projection. The difference between the two projections was only a few meters.\n\nAfter the establishment of the State of Israel, the Palestine grid continued to be used under the name of the Israel Grid or the ICS grid, now called the \"Old Israeli Grid\", with 1000km added to the northing component to make the north-south range continuous. It was replaced by the Israeli Transverse Mercator grid in 1994. The Palestine grid is still commonly used to specify locations in the historical and archaeological literature.\n\nThe basic way of specifying a location on the Palestine grid is to write the east-west coordinate followed by the north-south coordinate using 3 digits each. For example, the Dome of the Rock is at 172132. This specifies the location within one kilometer. If more precision is required, extra digits can be added to each coordinate; for example, 17241317 gives the Dome of the Rock to within 100 meters. Many authors separate the two coordinates with punctuation for readability purposes, for example 172-132 or 172/132.\n"}
{"id": "1672804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1672804", "title": "Provinces of Peru", "text": "Provinces of Peru\n\nThe provinces of Peru () are the second-level administrative subdivisions of the country. They are divided into districts (). There are 196 provinces in Peru, grouped into 25 regions except for the Lima Province which does not belong to any region. This makes an average of 7 provinces per region. The region with the fewest provinces is Callao (one) and the region with the most is Ancash (twenty).\n\nWhile provinces in the sparsely populated Amazon rain forest of eastern Peru tend to be larger, there is a large concentration of them in the north-central area of the country. The province with the least number of districts is Purús Province, with just 1 district. The province with the most districts is Lima Province, with 43 districts. The most common number of districts per province is 8, a total of 29 provinces share this number of districts.\n\nThe table below shows all provinces with their capitals and the region in which they are located. The UBIGEO code uniquely identifies each province. Capitals in bold are also a regional capital. Provinces in which the region's capital is located all have an UBIGEO code ending in codice_1.\n\n"}
{"id": "690325", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=690325", "title": "Regions of Mali", "text": "Regions of Mali\n\nSince 2016, Mali has been divided into ten regions and one capital district. A reorganization of the country from eight to nineteen regions was passed into law in 2012, but of the new regions, only Taoudénit (partitioned from Tombouctou Region) and Ménaka (formerly Ménaka Cercle in Gao Region) have begun to be implemented. Each of the regions bears the name of its capital. The regions are divided into 56 cercles. The cercles and the capital district are divided into 703 communes. \n\nThe regions are numbered, originally west to east, with Roman numerals. The capital Bamako is administered separately and is in its own district.\nThe ten regions and the Bamako District are listed below. The population figures are from the 1998 and 2009 censuses.\n\n"}
{"id": "55022061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55022061", "title": "Rupes Tenuis", "text": "Rupes Tenuis\n\nRupes Tenuis () is a Martian north polar scarp. It is named after one of the classical albedo features on Mars. Its name was officially approved by IAU in 1988. It extends from latitude 74.94°N to 82.2°N and from longitude 242.12°E to 300.77°E (59.23°W – 117.88°W). Its centre is located at latitude 81.6°N longitude 85.47°W. It marks the outer perimeter of Planum Boreum from longitude 242.12°E to 300.77°E, and it is formed by the eastern extension of the Olympia Cavi, a series of local troughs and depressions, which become longer and deeper as they merge to create the Rupes Tenuis scarp formation. The scarp is located to the west of Chasma Boreale, at the base of Planum Boreum, and its height varies from a few hundred metres to a maximum of approximately 1000 metres.\n\nImmediately to the south of Rupes Tenuis, approximately at 285ºE, lies Abalos Mensa, a convex formation of approximately 180 kilometer span, shaped like a wedge when viewed from above. The dune field of Abalos Undae continues in a southwestward direction after it emerges from the western end of a narrow channel separating Rupes Tenuis from Abalos Mensa.\n\nTwo named craters are located in the immediate area of Rupes Tenuis; Crotone, located at 82.2ºN, 290.0ºE with a 6.4 km diameter, is situated at the channel separating the scarp from Abalos Mensa, and Boola, located at 81.1ºN, 254.2ºE, with a 17 km diameter, is found close to the western boundary of the Rupes Tenuis scarp. West of Abalos Mensa, parallel to and south of the Rupes Tenuis scarp, runs a narrow, low-altitude plain, named Tenuis Mensa, which exhibits a southward slope.\n\nThe proposed erosion mechanism for the polar basal unit in general, and Rupes Tenuis in particular, are katabatic winds (From Greek: katabasis, \"descent\", i.e. strong winds descending from Planum Boreum), and solar ablation. These mechanisms are also considered responsible for the modern-day erosion and retreat of the Rupes Tenuis scarp, the existence of conical mounds and promontories in the immediate vicinity of the scarp, and the creation of the narrow channels that separate Abalos Mensa from the scarp. This erosion process is theorised to have existed since the Late Amazonian period on Mars, and it is considered to have contributed to the continuous retreat of the polar scarp from an older southern latitude as low as 74ºN.\n\nIt is further theorised that the Rupes Tenuis stratigraphic unit may have been a paleo-plateau that descended further South than the present-day Rupes Tenuis scarp. Geological formations in the vicinity of the scarp, such as mounds, are considered to have been formed by erosion mechanisms rather than volcanic activity. The horizontal attitude (inclination) of the layers of the Rupes Tenuis unit, further indicates the non-volcanic origin of these formations, since layers of volcanic origin are not typically horizontal. Nearby formations such as Abalos Colles — a group of five, flat or concave top, mounds, less than 700 m high and less than 1 km in diameter — are considered to be erosional remnants of a once-continuous stratigraphic unit, the Rupes Tenuis unit.\n"}
{"id": "8801974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8801974", "title": "Shundi (fictional kingdom)", "text": "Shundi (fictional kingdom)\n\nShundi is a fictional kingdom, depicted in \"Goopy Gyne Bagha Byne\", a film directed by Satyajit Ray based on a short story penned by his grandfather Upendrakishore Ray.\n\nIt is very resourceful, and the good king (King of Shundi) kept the citizens happy and content. Ten years before the coming of Goopy and Bagha when the king was away for pilgrimage an epidemic caused the people to lose their speech leaving only the king and his family to be able to talk until the magical potion made by Barfi restored the power of speech once again.\n\nShundi was threatened of an attack by the hostile neighbor King of Halla. They were only saved by the magical powers of Goopy and Bagha who in turn were married to the princesses of the respective kingdoms of Shundi and Halla; where they would live until they decide to visit the kingdom of Hirak.\n\nIn another film, \"Jajantaram Mamantaram\" (2003), directed by Saumitra Ranade, Shundi is depicted as a remote island whose residents are one-tenth in size in comparison to the normal human beings. Aditya, a resident of Mumbai reached there after a boat capsize and killed a demon, Jhamunda in order to save the residents of Shundi from him.\n\nIn \"Jagga Jasoos\", Shundi is fictional town in Africa.￼\n"}
{"id": "1777376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1777376", "title": "Sovetskaya (Antarctic Research Station)", "text": "Sovetskaya (Antarctic Research Station)\n\nSovetskaya was a Soviet research station in Kaiser Wilhelm II Land in Antarctica that was established on 16 February 1958 and closed on 3 January 1959.\n\nThe surface elevation was initially reported to be ; however, it was later revised to . Reached on 16 February 1958 by the 3rd Soviet Antarctic Expedition for International Geophysical Year research work, it closed on 3 January 1959. Its WMO reporting ID was 89557.\n\n"}
{"id": "213858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=213858", "title": "Willebrord Snellius", "text": "Willebrord Snellius\n\nWillebrord Snellius (born Willebrord Snel van Royen) (13 June 158030 October 1626) was a Dutch astronomer and mathematician, known in the English-speaking world as Snell. In the west, especially the English speaking countries, his name is attached to the law of refraction of light. (It is now known that this law was already known to Ibn Sahl in 984. The same law was also investigated by Ptolemy and in the Middle Ages by Witelo, but due to lack of adequate mathematical instruments (trigonometric functions) their results were saved as tables, not functions.)\n\nThe lunar crater Snellius is named after Willebrord Snellius. The Royal Netherlands Navy has named three survey ships after Snellius, including a currently-serving vessel.\n\nWillebrord Snellius was born in Leiden, Netherlands. In 1613 he succeeded his father, Rudolph Snel van Royen (1546–1613) as professor of mathematics at the University of Leiden.\n\nIn 1615 Snellius, after the work of Eratosthenes in Ptolemaic Egypt in the 3rd century BC, probably was the first to try to do a large-scale experiment to measure the circumference of the earth using triangulation. He was helped in his measurements by two of his students, the Austrian barons Erasmus and Casparus Sterrenberg. In several cities he also received support of friends among the city leaders (\"regenten\"). In his work \"The terrae Ambitus vera quantitate\" (1617) under the author's name (\"The Dutch Eratosthenes\") Snellius describes the methods he used. He came up with an estimate of 28,500 Rhineland rods – in modern units 107.37 km for one degree of latitude. 360 times 107.37 then gives a circumference of the Earth of 38,653 km. The actual circumference is 40,075 kilometers, so Snellius underestimated the circumference of the earth by 3.5%.\n\nSnellius came to his result by calculating the distances between a number of high points in the plain west and southwest of the Netherlands using triangulation. In order to carry out these measurements accurately Snellius had a large quadrant built, with which he could accurately measure angles in tenths of degrees. This quadrant can still be seen in the Museum Boerhaave in Leiden. In a network of fourteen cities a total of 53 triangulation measurements were made. In his calculations Snellius made use of a solution for what is now called the Snellius–Pothenot problem.\n\nBy necessity Snellius's high points were nearly all church spires. There were hardly any other tall buildings at that time in the west of the Netherlands. More or less ordered from north to south and/or in successive order of measuring, Snellius used a network of fourteen measure points: Alkmaar : St. Laurenskerk; Haarlem : Sint-Bavokerk; Leiden : a then new part (built in 1599) of the City walls; The Hague : Sint-Jacobskerk; Amsterdam : Oude Kerk; Utrecht : Cathedral of Utrecht; Zaltbommel : Sint-Maartenskerk; Gouda : Sint Janskerk; Oudewater : Sint-Michaelskerk; Rotterdam : Sint-Laurenskerk; Dordrecht : Grote Kerk; Willemstad : Koepelkerk; Bergen-op-Zoom : Gertrudiskerk; Breda : Grote Kerk\n\nThe actual distance between the two church spires in Alkmaar and Breda, two places nearly on the same meridian, is 116.1 kilometers. The difference in latitude between Alkmaar (52° 37' 57\" N) and Breda (51° 35' 20\" N) is 1.0436 degree. Assuming Snellius corrected for this he must have calculated a distance of 107.37 * 1.0436 = 112.05 kilometers between the Sint-Laurenskerk in Alkmaar and the Grote Kerk in Breda.\n\nSnellius was also a distinguished mathematician, producing a new method for calculating π—the first such improvement since ancient times. He rediscovered the law of refraction in 1621.\n\nIn addition to the \"Eratosthenes Batavus\", he published (1621), and \"Tiphys Batavus\" (1624). He also edited \"Coeli et siderum in eo errantium observationes Hassiacae\" (1618), containing the astronomical observations of Landgrave William IV of Hesse. A work on trigonometry (\"Doctrina triangulorum\") authored by Snellius was published a year after his death.\n\nSnellius died at Leiden on October 1626, at the age of 46 from an illness diagnosed as colic. His grave can be seen in the Pieterskerk, Leiden, which has since been deconsecrated.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "77831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=77831", "title": "William Morris Davis", "text": "William Morris Davis\n\nWilliam Morris Davis (February 12, 1850 – February 5, 1934) was an American geographer, geologist, geomorphologist, and meteorologist, often called the \"father of American geography\".\n\nHe was born into a prominent Quaker family in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, son of Edward M. Davis and Maria Mott Davis (a daughter of the women's advocate Lucretia Mott). Davis studied geology and geography at Harvard's Lawrence Scientific School and then joined the Harvard sponsored geographic exploration party to the Colorado territory, led by the inaugural Sturgis-Hooper professor of geology, Josiah Dwight Whitney. Wild stories had circulated since soon after the Louisiana Purchase about Rocky Mountains peaks 18,000 feet or higher. The Harvard expedition set out to investigate, and found none, but they did find \"14ers\" (14,000-plus feet). He graduated from Harvard University in 1869 and received a Master of Mining Engineering in the following year.\n\nAfter his first wife died, Davis married Mary M. Wyman from Cambridge, Massachusetts in 1914, and, after her death, he married Lucy L. Tennant from Milton, Massachusetts \nin 1928, who survived him.\n\nHe died in Pasadena, California, shortly before his 84th birthday. His Cambridge home is a National Historic Landmark.\n\nDavis initially worked in Córdoba, Argentina as a meteorologist for three years and after working as an assistant to Nathaniel Shaler, he became an instructor in geology at Harvard, in 1879. The same year he married Ellen B. Warner from Springfield, Massachusetts. While Davis never completed his PhD, he was appointed to his first full professorship in 1890 and remained in academia and teaching throughout his life.\n\nDavis was a tenacious, as well as keen observer of nature, a master of logical deduction, and a brilliant synthesizer of disparate observations and ideas. From his own field observations and studies made by the original nineteenth-century surveyors of the western United States, he devised his most influential scientific contribution:the \"geographical cycle\". His theory first defined in his 1889 article, \"The Rivers and Valleys of Pennsylvania\", which was a model of how rivers erode uplifted land to base level, was inspired by the work of Erasmus and Charles Darwin and Jean-Baptiste Lamarck, and it had a strong evolutionary flavor. His cycle of erosion suggests that (larger) rivers have three main stages of development, generally divided into youthful, mature and old-age stages. Each stage has distinct landforms and other properties associated with them, which can occur along the length of a river's upper, middle, and lower course.\n\nThough the cycle of erosion was a crucial early contribution to the development of geomorphology, many of Davis' theories regarding landscape evolution, sometimes termed 'Davisian geomorphology', were heavily criticized by later geomorphologists. When Davis retired from Harvard in 1911, the study of landscape evolution was nearly monopolized by his theories. It was characteristic of Davis to react violently and disdainfully to criticism, particularly to the German criticism in the 1920s headed by Walther Penck; it was also his characteristic to choose to attack the most vulnerable points of that criticism. Since that time, with a less dogmatic approach and greater knowledge, some authors note that Penck's and Davis' ideas have become more compatible and even complementary since the advent of modern tectonic theory. They claim that Davis' ideas are more applicable near active margins where tectonics are \"cataclysmic\", and Penck's ideas fit better in models of passive margins and continental platforms.\n\nHe was a founder of the Association of American Geographers in 1904, and heavily involved with the National Geographic Society in its early years, writing a number of articles for the magazine. Davis retired from Harvard in 1911. He served as president of the Geological Society of America in 1911. He was awarded the Patron's Gold Medal of the Royal Geographical Society in 1919.\n\nThe valley of Davisdalen in Nathorst Land at Spitsbergen, Svalbard is named after him.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1202354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1202354", "title": "Árva County", "text": "Árva County\n\nÁrva County (, , , , ) was an administrative county (comitatus) of the Kingdom of Hungary since the 14th century until 1918/1920. Its territory is now in northern Slovakia and southern Poland. Today, the Slovak name is only used as an informal designation of the corresponding territory (see Orava region).\n\nÁrva County shared borders with the Austrian land Galicia and the Hungarian counties Trencsén, Turóc and Liptó County. The county's territory was situated along the Árva (Orava) river between Zázriva (Zázrivá) and the Tatra mountains. Its area was 2,019 km² around 1910. Now the territory is divided between Poland and Slovakia. The main Polish town of Orava is Jabłonka.\n\nThe county seat was at the Orava Castle (Hungarian: Árva vára) until 1520, then it was moved to Nagyfalu (also Magna Villa, Nagfalw, Velicsna, Velka Wesz, present-day Veličná). After the destruction of the town by the Lithuanian troops in 1683, the seat was moved to Alsókubin (also Kolbin, Kublen, Kubin, Also Helben, Clbin, Culbyn, Cublyn, present-day Dolný Kubín).\n\nEmerging from the Zólyom (Zvolen) royal land (), the first written mention about Árva County (comitatus) is from 1349. However, the territory had been still referenced as a district in 1351-1368 and it finally became a county with its own self-administration in 1370.\n\nIn the aftermath of World War I, the whole county became part of newly formed Czechoslovakia. The county was abolished with effective date 1 January 1923 and its territory became a part of Váh County. After a border dispute (treated in detail under Polish–Czechoslovak border conflicts) several villages in the north-east territory were exchanged between Poland and Czechoslovakia.\n\nIn 1900, the county had a population of 85.009 people and was composed of the following linguistic communities:\n\nTotal:\n\n\nAccording to the census of 1900, the county was composed of the following religious communities:\n\nTotal:\n\n\nIn 1910, county had a population of 78,745 people and was composed of the following linguistic communities:\n\nTotal:\n\n\nAccording to the census of 1910, the county was composed of the following religious communities:\n\nTotal:\n\n\nIn the early 20th century, the districts and their capitals were: \n"}
