{"id": "53235412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53235412", "title": "6th National Geographic Bee", "text": "6th National Geographic Bee\n\nThe 6th National Geographic Bee was held in Washington, D.C. on May 25, 1994, sponsored by the National Geographic Society. The final competition was moderated by Jeopardy! host Alex Trebek. The winner was Anders Knospe of Bozeman, Montana, who won a $25,000 college scholarship. The 2nd-place winner, Michael Bebow of Metairie, Louisiana, won a $15,000 scholarship. The 3rd-place winner, Jeorse Lund of Henderson, Nevada, won a $10,000 scholarship.\n\n"}
{"id": "29768853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29768853", "title": "Accelerated JD program", "text": "Accelerated JD program\n\nIn United States legal education, an accelerated JD Program may refer to one of the following:\n\n\"U.S. News & World Report\" stated that as a result of student concerns about the time and cost (both in terms of tuition and the opportunity cost associated with foregoing a salary for three years) required to complete a law degree, there has been an emerging trend to develop accelerated JD programs.\n\nUnless otherwise indicated, all students enter the accelerated JD program at the start of the school's summer term. At Southwestern Law, the summer term starts in June; at the other listed schools, the summer term starts in May.\n\nThe May/June start of most accelerated programs is compatible with the bar examination schedule of all U.S. jurisdictions. Bar exams throughout the U.S. take place during the week containing the last Wednesday in July; almost all jurisdictions also offer an exam during the week containing the last Wednesday in February. Washburn's January starting date is compatible with February examinations.\n\n"}
{"id": "43235568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43235568", "title": "Alfred Freddy Krupa", "text": "Alfred Freddy Krupa\n\nAlfred Freddy Krupa (Krūppa) GCCR FRSA (14 June 1971, Karlovac, Yugoslavia) is a Croatian contemporary painter, master draughtsman, book artist, art photographer and art teacher.\n\nAlfred Freddy Krupa comes from a multiethnic Silesian family of long tradition in visual arts. His family appears in archives of the International Tracing Service as the registered victims of Nazi persecution.\nHis grandfather and first mentor Alfred Krupa Sr. (Alfred Joseph Kruppa, Mikolow, Poland 1915 - Karlovac, Croatia/Yugoslavia 1989, related to the Oppenheim family ) the former pupil of Józef Mehoffer was one of the 13 core artists of the Art of Croatian Antifascist Movement (he exhibited at the historic first Partisan exhibition held in Topusko in 1944 on the free territory of Yugoslavia) and founder of the Watercolor Biennal of Yugoslavia (BAJ,1979). \nHis son Mladen Krupa created the portable metal steel bunker called Kruppa-M91 used during\nCroatian Homeland War, now under Croatian state protection.\nAccording to the Eupedia Krupa belongs to the rare Ashkenazi branch of haplogroup Q and through that paternal lineage is related to J. Robert Oppenheimer, Vilna Gaon, Henry Heimlich, Tony Kushner, Anson Williams, Nicky Oppenheimer, the Piątkowski h. Pomian family and other notables.\n\nKrupa graduated in 1995 at the Academy of Fine Arts, University of Zagreb (est. 1907 as the Royal College for Arts and Crafts (Croatian: Kraljevsko zemaljsko više obrazovalište za umjetnost i umjetni obrt). Krupa also studied Art History (non-degree research) at the University of Zagreb (1997,1998) and in 1998/99 as the postgraduate research student (The ) at the Tokyo Gakugei University (東京学芸大学) or Gakudai (学大).\nIn 2005 Krupa finished additional art education study and has been given formal permanent title of \"Professor of Drawing and Painting\" by the Croatian State Institute for Education (today \"Education and Teacher Training Agency\"- ETTA/AZOO)\n\nKrupas work has attracted public and professional attention from the beginning. For the first time his name was introduced to the general public in 1990 at the then mega-popular Yugoslav weekly \"Vikend/Weekend\". In the same year his first solo exhibition was held.\n\nSince early 1990's A.F. Krupa exhibited frequently. His works has been presented on multiple occasions together with artists such as Edo Murtić, Miroslav Šutej, Ivan Kožarić, Marijan Jevšovar, Mersad Berber, Đuro Seder, Ana Sladetić, Marino Tartaglia, Josip Vaništa, Vlaho Bukovac, Bela Čikoš Sesija, Dario Ortiz, Liu Yi and many others. Artfacts.net Global Artists Historical Ranking (all media) positioned A. F. Krupa around the 2400th place in 1997 based on the international exhibition history, with the similar rank for over 2 decades.\n\nInternationally Krupa is known as a painter of portraits, so among other things, he portrayed Croatian President Franjo Tudjman (1996) and Rwandan King Kigeli V. (2013).\n\nSignificant / exquisite are his ink paintings, on rice paper using the technique Hakubyou. Krupa also enters into contemporary interpretation of Haboku (破墨) and Hatsuboku (溌墨) and concentrates on essential and represents a simplified stylistic motifs.\n\nThis visible/non-visible choice demonstrates, in effect, the strong productivity of Krupa at the level of deep and symbolic significance.\n\nHis work in ink is considered to be of vital importance for the global integrity of the Modern ink painting, and he is considered as one of the essential representatives of national and international present-day art, in particular of the New Ink Movement (New Ink Art) \n\nIn his photographic works Krupa demonstrates the same minimalist approach and philosophy, placing the focus on composition and contrast.\n\nKrupas original works on paper can be researched at Tate - London (Special Library Collection), Silesian Museum in Katowice (Poland), Modern Gallery, Zagreb, Croatian Academy of Sciences and Arts – Dept. of Prints and Drawings (Zagreb, Croatia), Alfredo Guati Rojo National Watercolor Museum (Museo Nacional de Acuarela Alfredo Guati Rojo)-Mexico City (Mexico), Office of the President of the Republic of Croatia (Zagreb, Croatia) and other public, corporate and private collections.\n\nAccording to the Badan Rynkowych Institute (Warsaw) survey report from 2007 (\"Opinie internautów o Muzeum Sztuki Nowoczesnej w Warszawie, nagrodzonym projekcie budynku i wirtualnym Forum sztuki\"), Krupa appears among 70 most wanted currently working/creating artists in the future collections of the Museum of Modern Art, Warsaw (MSN).\n\nAlfred Freddy Krupa is included in the 36th edition of Who's Who in American Art and in the artists database of the \"documenta\" in Kassel. Documenta is recognized as the world’s most renowned and debated international exhibition of contemporary art.\n"}
{"id": "15881905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15881905", "title": "Alliance for Young Artists &amp; Writers", "text": "Alliance for Young Artists &amp; Writers\n\nThe Alliance for Young Artists & Writers, a 501(c)(3) nonprofit organization established in 1994, identifies teenagers with exceptional creative talent and brings their remarkable work to a national audience through the Scholastic Art & Writing Awards. The Alliance partners with nearly 100 Regional Affiliates across the country to provide creative teens with opportunities for recognition, exhibition, publication, and scholarships.\n\nThe Scholastic Art & Writing Awards provide scholarships for teenagers in the United States. The Awards program was created in 1923 by Maurice R. \"Robbie\" Robinson, founder of Scholastic Corporation, and has been administered by the Alliance for Young Artists & Writers since 1994. Its past award recipients include Andy Warhol, Frances Farmer, , Cy Twombly, , Sylvia Plath, Truman Capote, Richard Avedon, Richard Linklater, Stephen King, John Updike, Ken Burns, Lena Dunham, Paul Chan, Kay WalkingStick, Zac Posen and Joyce Carol Oates among many others.\n\nEstablished to ensure that literary and artistic talent were recognized in schools and communities across the country, the program began as a small writing contest; today, it offers recognition in 29 categories including architecture, sculpture, painting, photography, poetry, dramatic script, fashion, animation, and video games. The Awards are open to all students in grades 7–12 from public, private, and home schools throughout the U.S. (and its territories), as well as American-run schools abroad and community programs serving eligible student populations.\n\nThe program links the National Student Poets with audiences and neighborhood resources such as museums and libraries, and other community-anchor institutions and builds upon the Alliance for Young Artists & Writers' long-standing work with educators and creative teens through the prestigious Scholastic Art & Writing Awards. The Poets’ appointment events are hosted in cooperation with the Library of Congress in Washington, D.C., and held in conjunction with the National Book Festival.\n\nThe selection panels for both regional and national levels of the Scholastic Art & Writing Awards are composed of artists, writers, curators, critics, educators, and professionals from the nation’s leading creative industries, some of whom are alums of the Scholastic Awards. Notable past jurors include Robert Frost, Langston Hughes, David Sedaris, Judy Blume, Bill Murray, Philip-Lorca diCorcia, Mary Ellen Mark, William Saroyan, Sergio Troncoso, Frank McCourt, Kiki Smith, George Plimpton, Esmeralda Santiago, Princess Tatiana von Fürstenberg, Madeleine L’Engle, Faith Ringgold, Billy Collins, Edward Sorel, Edwidge Danticat, Donald Lipski, Carolyn Forché, Ned Vizzini, and Michael Bierut. Panelists look for works that best exemplify originality, technical skill, and the emergence of a personal voice or vision.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14567369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14567369", "title": "Born-digital", "text": "Born-digital\n\nThe term born-digital refers to materials that originate in a digital form. This is in contrast to digital reformatting, through which analog materials become digital. It is most often used in relation to digital libraries and the issues that go along with said organizations, such as digital preservation and intellectual property. However, as technologies have advanced and spread, the concept of being born-digital has also been discussed in relation to personal consumer-based sectors, with the rise of e-books and evolving digital music. Other terms that might be encountered as synonymous include \"natively digital\", \"digital-first\", and \"digital-exclusive\".\n\nThere exists some inconsistency in defining born-digital materials. Some believe such materials must exist in digital form exclusively; in other words, if it can be transferred into a physical, analog form, it is not truly born-digital. However, others maintain that while these materials will often not have a subsequent physical counterpart, having one does not bar them from being classified as 'born-digital'. For instance, Mahesh and Mittal identify two types of born-digital content, \"exclusive digital\" and \"digital for print\", allowing for a broader base of classification than the former definition provides.\n\nFurthermore, it has been pointed out that certain works may incorporate components that are both born-digital and digitized, further blurring the lines between what should and should not be considered 'born-digital.' For example, a digital video created may utilize historical film footage that has been converted. It is important to be aware of these discrepancies when thinking about born-digital materials and the effects they have. However, some universals do exist across these definitions. All make clear the fact that born-digital media must originate digitally. Also, they agree that this media must be able to be utilized in a digital form (whether exclusively or otherwise), while they do not have to exist or be used as analog materials.\n\nEasily seen within the area of e-books, publishing houses use the electronic format as \"digital appetizers\" within \"prepublication digital giveaways\". Often they offer the digital formats at a reduced cost to the printed versions or else produce \"digital-exclusive publications\" for use on e-book readers, such as the Kindle. One example of this was with the simultaneous launch of Amazon's Kindle 2 with the Stephen King novelette \"Ur\".\n\nThe following provides a list and examples of media that are considered to be common born-digital media:\n\nThese are examples of media that originated in the networked world, therefore existing as born-digital since inception.\n\nThese forms have been created, shared and used independently of or prior to the use of computers, however they are increasingly using a digital format, resulting in separate born-digital creations.\n\nThe term \"borndigital\" is of uncertain origin. While it may have occurred to multiple people at various times, it was coined independently by web developer Randel (Rafi) Metz in 1993, who acquired the domain name \"borndigital.com\" then and sustained it as a personal website for 18 years until 2011. The domain is now owned by a web developer in New Zealand. The original borndigital website is archived here.\n\nThere are many issues that accompany the rise in born-digital material over the years, speaking particularly to their format and quantity. All of these issues affect digital content in general, but are magnified for born-digital content as it often only exists digitally and it is constantly being created in this very unstable environment.\n\nDigital preservation involves the many activities necessary to enable continuous access to digital content. These activities include \"collection, description, migration, and redundant storage\". Born-digital materials present certain difficulties in this mission. As with other digital objects, preservation must be a continuous and regular undertaking, as these materials do not show the same kinds of advanced warning signs of degradation that print and certain other physical materials do. Invisible processes such as bit rot can lead to irreparable damage. In other cases, such as on the Web, born-digital content is particularly ephemeral and changes, or even disappears, very quickly; lapses in preservation can cause these materials to escape forever. Those preserving digital materials also have to worry about changing technologies and the risk of digital obsolescence.\n\nMany questions arise regarding what should be archived and preserved and who should undertake the job. Vast amounts of born-digital content are created constantly and institutions are forced to decide what and how much should be saved. Because linking plays such a large role in the digital setting, on the Web, in wikis and blogs, in electronic journals, and beyond, whether a responsibility exists to maintain access to links (and therefore context) is debated, especially when considering the scope of such a task. Additionally, since publishing is not as delineated in the digital realm and preliminary versions of work are increasingly made available, knowing when to archive presents further complications.\n\nIn developing collections and making born-digital content available, libraries have had to deal with complex intellectual property issues. Laws internationally dealing with the rights regarding works were created to deal with analog works; as such, provisions such as the first-sale doctrine of US copyright law, which enables libraries to lend materials to patrons, have not been applied to the digital realm. Therefore, certain copyrighted digital content that is licensed rather than owned, as is common with many digital materials, is often of limited use since it cannot be transmitted to patrons at various computers or lent through an interloan agreement. Also, works can easily be damaged due to viruses or system problems, while licenses and encryption often prevent the ability to copy, necessary to protect a purchase and prevent obstruction of access. Lack of ownership also leaves libraries with nothing when their license expires, despite the costs already paid. These problems have generally gone unsolved, with people still working toward solutions. However, with regards to the preservation functions of libraries and archives and the subsequent need to make copies of born-digital materials, the laws of many countries have been changing, allowing for agreements to be made between these institutions and the rights holders of born-digital content.\n\nHowever, consumers have also had to deal with intellectual property as it concerns their ownership of and ability to control the born-digital material that they buy. Piracy proves to be a bigger problem with digital objects, including those that are born-digital, because such materials can be copied and spread in perfect condition with speed and distance on a scale inconceivable for traditional print and physical materials. Again, the first-sale doctrine, which, from a consumer standpoint, allows purchasers of materials to sell or give away items (such as books and CDs), is not yet applied effectively to digital objects. Three reasons for this have been identified by Victor Calaba: \"...first, license agreements imposed by software manufacturers typically prohibit exercise of the first sale doctrine; second, traditional copyright law may not support application of the first sale doctrine to digital works; finally, the functionally prevents users from making copies of digitized works and prohibits the necessary bypassing of access control mechanisms to facilitate a transfer.\"\n\nAs more commercial items have moved toward becoming born-digital, the face of certain industries has begun to change and adapt. Some of the most affected are in relation to books, periodicals, and music. The e-book sector of the book industry has flourished in recent years, with increasing numbers of e-books and e-book readers being developed and sold, and rising numbers of books being born-digital. Giving in to this trend, some publishing houses, including major ones such as Harlequin, have formed imprints for digital-only books. Publishers who adopt these digital imprints see opportunities to save costs on things such as printing. However, this e-publishing also gives authors more independence from their publishers, because the digital marketplace creates a more direct connection between authors, their works, and the audience.\nSimilarly, journal publishers have seen advantages to born-digital publications. Increasingly institutions are more interested in subscribing to digital versions of journals, something observed as some scholarly journals have unbundled their print and electronic editions and allowed for separate subscription; these trends have created questions about how economically sustainable production of print versions is. Already, some major journals such as that of the American Chemical Society have made significant changes to their print editions in order to cut costs, and many see a move toward exclusively digital journals as on the horizon. These trends have spilled over into the magazine industry as well. PC Magazine went \"100% digital\" in early 2009, explaining \"...that the ever-growing expense of print and delivery was turning the creation of a physical product into an untenable business proposition\".\n\nThe music industry has changed dramatically with the increase in digital music, specifically digital downloads. There has been a dramatic increase in download activity in the new millennium, signaling changes in buying habits. The digital format and consumers' growing comfort with it has led to rising sales in single tracks. This growth is clearly still underway, with all of the ten best-selling singles since 2000 having been released since 2007. This does not necessarily signal the demise of CDs, as they are still more popular than digital albums, but it does show that this changing born-digital content is having a significant influence on sales and the industry.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8520286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8520286", "title": "Budapest Semesters in Mathematics", "text": "Budapest Semesters in Mathematics\n\nThe Budapest Semesters in Mathematics program is a study abroad opportunity for North American undergraduate students in Budapest, Hungary. The coursework is primarily mathematical and conducted in English by Hungarian professors whose primary positions are at Eötvös Loránd University or the Alfréd Rényi Institute of Mathematics of the Hungarian Academy of Sciences. Originally started by László Lovász, László Babai, Vera Sós, and Pál Erdős, the first semester was conducted in Spring 1985. The North- American part of the program is currently run by Tina Garrett (North American Director) out of St. Olaf College in Northfield, MN. She is supported by Kendra Killpatrick (Associate Director) and Eileen Shimota (Program Administrator). The former North American Directors were Paul D. Humke (1988–2011) and Tom Trotter. The Hungarian director is Dezső Miklós.\n\nCourses commonly offered at BSM:\n\nIn addition to mathematics-based courses, students have the opportunity to take culture classes, such as beginning and intermediate Hungarian Language classes, Hungarian Arts and Culture, and Holocaust and Memory.\n\nClasses are held in the College International, located at Bethlen Gábor Tér in the heart of Pest in Budapest's District VII. This is also the location for several other programs which attract both Hungarian and international students. Entry to the building is monitored; each student receives a card that electronically admits him or her to the building. There are also cameras to monitor movement exterior to the building. Several tram and bus lines have stops near the school, as does the Red Metro Line, which stops at Keleti railway station.\n\nPrior to classes starting, students can arrive early to attend an optional two-week, 80-hour intensive language course at the Babilon Nyelvstúdió. Babilon is located at Astoria, right in front of Budapest's Great Synagogue. For approximately eight hours each day, students are immersed in the language, learning numbers, greetings, and other necessary vocabulary.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27406549", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27406549", "title": "Careers advisory service", "text": "Careers advisory service\n\nCareers advisory services in the UK are typically organisations that offer advice, guidance and counselling on careers. People may use these services for a number of purposes, such as jobhunting, changing careers, getting a promotion, building career skills, returning to work after a career break and professional development. Career challenges such as these occur for many reasons, including redundancy, motherhood, leaving full-time education, relocation, or simply coming to the end of a work contract. \n\nThese services usually employ professional career counsellors, coaches and guides to mentor their clients. In the UK, such professionals might have qualifications from institutes such as the Chartered Institute of Personnel and Development (CIPD), International Coach Federation (ICF) and the British Psychology Society (BPS). The Global Career Development Facilitator is an international certificate held by about 17.500 people (2010) in the United States, Canada, Japan, China, Taiwan, Germany, Romania, Turkey, etc.\n\nThe Educational and Vocational Guidance Practitioner (EVGP) is a credential of the International Association for Educational and Vocational Guidance (IAEVG) based on competency inventory. The EVGP is administered and awarded on behalf of the IAEVG by the Center of Credentialing and Education in Greensboro, North Carolina, in the United States, which is an affiliate subsidiary of the American National Board of Certified Counselors.\n\nOne of the earliest examples of a governmental careers advisory service in the UK came as a result of The Education (Choice of Employment) Act (1910). This gave local education authorities the opportunity to advise juveniles on getting work. Each education authority had an officer who was assigned the specific role of advising juveniles in this manner.\n\nThe UK government’s careers advisory service is called The National Careers Service. Most UK universities also have their own in-house careers advisory services for students and alumni. A number of corporate entities also have in-house careers advisory services for their employees. There are privately owned, independent careers advisory services throughout the UK.\n\nTraditionally, clients of careers advisory services have met up with their career guide/counsellor/coach face-to-face to work through their career challenges. Nowadays, however, careers advisory services may offer remote channels of communication such as careers telephone lines and online tools. There are now private companies that are offering subscription-based online careers information, advice and guidance to schools across the UK. Some careers advisory services also go out into the community by running seminars and workshops.\n\nCareers advisory services adopt many different techniques and tools to assist their clients. They include such things as: diagnostic tests and questionnaires; personality assessments; CV writing workshops; mock interviews;'career drivers' questionnaires and visionboards. An established career coaching technique used by many careers advisers is a combination of the GROW model and the 'solution-focused' methodology.\n\nIn the UK, careers advisory services must adhere to British Guidance Council Quality Standards by meeting criteria consisting of several detailed competencies. The performance of staff within these services is also keenly observed by these standards. Further standards and guidelines concentrate on quality of informational material, such as books, manuals and commercial PDFs, as well as learning and delivery outcomes.\n\nPeople in the Republic of Ireland can find careers advisory services through organisations such as the FAS-Irish National Training and Employment Authority. In Northern Ireland, careers guidance services are delivered by the Northern Ireland Careers Service and Educational Guidance Service for Adults.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32028350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32028350", "title": "Certified National Accountant", "text": "Certified National Accountant\n\nA Certified National Accountant is a qualified professional accountant that has met the educational qualification and professional experience requirements for membership of Association of National Accountants of Nigeria (ANAN), and has been accepted as a member of the association. The \"Certified National Accountant\" is also the title of a quarterly journal of ANAN. \n\nAccountancy graduates with a B.Sc. and Higher National Diploma from Nigerian Universities and Polytechnics qualify for admission to a three-year training program at the Nigerian College of Accountancy, Jos.\nOn successful completion of the examinations they earn the designation of Certified National Accountant (CNA)and qualify to join ANAN.\n"}
{"id": "34409718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34409718", "title": "Cité de l'économie et de la monnaie", "text": "Cité de l'économie et de la monnaie\n\nThe Banque de France has announced the opening of the Cité de l'économie et de la monnaie during a press conference held by Governor Christian Noyer, on May 25, 2011. Its opening is programmed for the end of 2014.\n\nThis educational place aims at explaining the economy and its concepts to the general public; it will be hosted in the Hotel Gaillard, located at 1, Place du General Catroux, in the 17th district in Paris.\n\nThis place will invite the general public to discover economics, to tackle issues often met in everyday life, or to allow a better understanding of worldwide events.\n\nThe Cité de l'économie et de la monnaie will inter alia address teachers and their students, to help illustrate concepts studied at school (indeed half of the 100 000 annual visitors expected should be of school age).\n\nThe project is launched by the Banque de France, which collaborates with several partners. Among those partners:\n\n\nThe Cité de l'économie et de la monnaie will be hosted in the Hotel Gaillard, located at 1, Place du Général Catroux, in the 17th district in Paris.\n\nThis neo-gothic mansion has been realized by architect Jules Février at request of Emile Gaillard, banker from the city of Grenoble and amateur and collector of Middle Ages and Renaissance art. The Hotel Gaillard was sold to the Banque de France in 1919.\n\nFrom 1919 to 1921, architectural works have been directed by architect Alphonse Defrasse for the Banque de France, especially the building of a steel structure which housed the cashier's desks and other services to the visitors. He also imagined the impressive strong room which could be accessed by a lift bridge, over two-meters-deep moats.\n\nListed as a historic monument in 1999, this branch closed in 2006, as a consequence of the plan to close half of the Banque de France's branches on the French territory.\n\nThe project of the Cité de l'économie et de la monnaie was the object of an architectural contest. Over 100 teams of architects and museographers have participated in this contest which aimed at transforming this former branch of the Banque de France in an educational Cité, while respecting the architecture of the building which is listed as historic monument.\n\nThe team of architects – museographers was selected by the Banque de France amongst the six final projects chosen by the jury of the contest. The team is made of Ateliers Lion for the architecture, François Confino for the museography, and Eric Pallot as architect in charge of historic monuments.\n\n"}
{"id": "1578641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1578641", "title": "Cooperative learning", "text": "Cooperative learning\n\nCooperative learning is an educational approach which aims to organize classroom activities into academic and social learning experiences. There is much more to cooperative learning than merely arranging students into groups, and it has been described as \"structuring positive interdependence.\" Students must work in groups to complete tasks collectively toward academic goals. Unlike individual learning, which can be competitive in nature, students learning cooperatively can capitalize on one another's resources and skills (asking one another for information, evaluating one another's ideas, monitoring one another's work, etc.). Furthermore, the teacher's role changes from giving information to facilitating students' learning. Everyone succeeds when the group succeeds. Ross and Smyth (1995) describe successful cooperative learning tasks as intellectually demanding, creative, open-ended, and involve higher order thinking tasks. Cooperative learning has also been linked to increased levels of student satisfaction.\n\nFive essential elements are identified for the successful incorporation of cooperative learning in the classroom:\nAccording to Johnson and Johnson's meta-analysis, students in cooperative learning settings compared to those in individualistic or competitive learning settings, achieve more, reason better, gain higher self-esteem, like classmates and the learning tasks more and have more perceived social support.\n\nPrior to World War II, social theorists such as Allport, Watson, Shaw, and Mead began establishing cooperative learning theory after finding that group work was more effective and efficient in quantity, quality, and overall productivity when compared to working alone. However, it wasn't until 1937 when researchers May and Doob found that people who cooperate and work together to achieve shared goals, were more successful in attaining outcomes, than those who strived independently to complete the same goals. Furthermore, they found that independent achievers had a greater likelihood of displaying competitive behaviours.\n\nPhilosophers and psychologists in the 1930s and 1940s such as John Dewey, Kurt Lewin, and Morton Deutsh also influenced the cooperative learning theory practiced today. Dewey believed it was important that students develop knowledge and social skills that could be used outside of the classroom, and in the democratic society. This theory portrayed students as active recipients of knowledge by discussing information and answers in groups, engaging in the learning process together rather than being passive receivers of information (e.g., teacher talking, students listening).\n\nLewin's contributions to cooperative learning were based on the ideas of establishing relationships between group members in order to successfully carry out and achieve the learning goal. Deutsh's contribution to cooperative learning was positive social interdependence, the idea that the student is responsible for contributing to group knowledge.\n\nSince then, David and Roger Johnson have been actively contributing to the cooperative learning theory. In 1975, they identified that cooperative learning promoted mutual liking, better communication, high acceptance and support, as well as demonstrated an increase in a variety of thinking strategies among individuals in the group. Students who showed to be more competitive lacked in their interaction and trust with others, as well as in their emotional involvement with other students.\n\nIn 1994 Johnson and Johnson published the 5 elements (positive interdependence, individual accountability, face-to-face interaction, social skills, and processing) essential for effective group learning, achievement, and higher-order social, personal and cognitive skills (e.g., problem solving, reasoning, decision-making, planning, organizing, and reflecting).\n\nSocial interdependence theory: Social interdependence exists when the outcomes of individuals are affected by their own and others' actions. There are two types of social interdependence: positive (when the actions of individuals promote the achievement of joint goals) and negative (when the actions of individuals obstruct the achievement of each other's goals). Social interdependence may be differentiated from social dependence, independence, and helplessness. Social dependence exists when the goal achievement of Person A is affected by Person B's actions, but the reverse is not true. Social independence exists when the goal achievement of Person A is unaffected by Person B's actions and vice versa. Social helplessness exists when neither the person nor other can influence goal achievement.\n\nKurt Lewin proposed that the essence of a group is the interdependence among members that results in the group being a dynamic whole so that a change in the state of any member or subgroup changes the state of any other member or subgroup. Group members are made interdependent through common goals. As members perceive their common goals, a state of tension arises that motivates movement toward the accomplishment of the goals.\n\nMorton Deutsch extended Lewin's notions by examining how the tension systems of different people may be interrelated. He conceptualized two types of social interdependence—positive and negative. Positive interdependence exists when there is a positive correlation among individuals' goal attainments; individuals perceive that they can attain their goal if and only if the other individuals with whom they are cooperatively linked attain their goals. Positive interdependence results in promotive interaction. Negative interdependence exists when there is a negative correlation among individuals' goal achievements; individual perceive that they can obtain their goals if and only if the other individuals with whom they are competitively like fail to obtain their goals. Negative interdependence results in oppositional or content interaction. No interdependence exists when there is no correlation among individuals' goal achievements; individuals perceive that the achievement of their goals is unrelated to the goal achievement of others. The basic premise of social interdependence theory is that how participants' goals are structured determines the ways they interact and the interaction pattern determine the outcomes of the situation.\n\nFormal cooperative learning is structured, facilitated, and monitored by the educator over time and is used to achieve group goals in task work (e.g. completing a unit). Any course material or assignment can be adapted to this type of learning, and groups can vary from 2-6 people with discussions lasting from a few minutes up to an entire period. Types of formal cooperative learning strategies include:\nHaving experience and developing skill with this type of learning often facilitates informal and base learning. Jigsaw activities are wonderful because the student assumes the role of the teacher on a given topic and is in charge of teaching the topic to a classmate. The idea is that if students can teach something, they have already learned the material.\n\nInformal cooperative learning incorporates group learning with passive teaching by drawing attention to material through small groups throughout the lesson or by discussion at the end of a lesson, and typically involves groups of two (e.g. turn-to-your-partner discussions). These groups are often temporary and can change from lesson to lesson (very much unlike formal learning where 2 students may be lab partners throughout the entire semester contributing to one another's knowledge of science).\n\nDiscussions typically have four components that include formulating a response to questions asked by the educator, sharing responses to the questions asked with a partner, listening to a partner's responses to the same question, and creating a new well-developed answer. This type of learning enables the student to process, consolidate, and retain more information.\n\nIn group-based cooperative learning, these peer groups gather together over the long term (e.g. over the course of a year, or several years such as in high school or post-secondary studies) to develop and contribute to one another's knowledge mastery on a topic by regularly discussing material, encouraging one another, and supporting the academic and personal success of group members.\n\nBase group learning (e.g., a long term study group) is effective for learning complex subject matter over the course or semester and establishes caring, supportive peer relationships, which in turn motivates and strengthens the student's commitment to the group's education while increasing self-esteem and self-worth. Base group approaches also make the students accountable to educating their peer group in the event that a member was absent for a lesson. This is effective both for individual learning, as well as social support.\n\nJohnson and Johnson (2009) posited five variables that mediate the effectiveness of cooperation. Brown & Ciuffetelli Parker (2009) and Siltala (2010) discuss the \"5 basic and essential elements\" to cooperative learning:\n\n\nIn order for student achievement to improve considerably, two characteristics must be present:\n\nThere are a great number of cooperative learning techniques available. Some cooperative learning techniques utilize student pairing, while others utilize small groups of four or five students. Hundreds of techniques have been created into structures to use in any content area. Among the easy to implement structures are think-pair-share, think-pair-write, variations of Round Robin, and the reciprocal teaching technique. A well known cooperative learning technique is the Jigsaw, Jigsaw II and Reverse Jigsaw.\n\nOriginally developed by Frank T. Lyman (1981), think-pair-share allows students to contemplate a posed question or problem silently. The student may write down thoughts or simply just brainstorm in his or her head. When prompted, the student pairs up with a peer and discusses his or her idea(s) and then listens to the ideas of his or her partner. Following pair dialogue, the teacher solicits responses from the whole group. When teachers use this technique they don't have to worry about students not volunteering because each student will already have an idea in their heads, therefore, the teacher can call on anyone and increase discussion productivity.\n\nStudents are members of two groups: home group and expert group. In the heterogeneous home group, students are each assigned a different topic. Once a topic has been identified, students leave the home group and group with the other students with their assigned topic. In the new group, students learn the material together before returning to their home group. Once back in their home group, each student is accountable for teaching his or her assigned topic.\n\nJigsaw II is Robert Slavin's (1980) variation of Jigsaw in which members of the home group are assigned the same material, but focus on separate portions of the material. Each member must become an \"expert\" on his or her assigned portion and teach the other members of the home group.\n\nThis variation was created by Timothy Hedeen (2003) It differs from the original Jigsaw during the teaching portion of the activity. In the Reverse Jigsaw technique, students in the expert groups teach the whole class rather than return to their home groups to teach the content.\n\nThis is a cooperative learning strategy in which students form two concentric circles and take turns on rotation to face new partners to answer or discuss the teacher's questions. This method can be used to gather variety of information, generate new ideas and solve problems.\n\nBrown & Paliscar (1982) developed reciprocal teaching, which - as currently practiced - pertains to the form of guided, cooperative learning that features a collaborative learning setting between learning leaders and listeners; expert scaffolding by an adult teacher; and, direct instruction, modeling, and practice in the use of simple strategies that facilitate a dialogue structure.\n\nIn a model that allows for student pairs to participate in a dialogue about text, partners take turns reading and asking questions of each other, receiving immediate feedback. This approach enables students to use important metacognitive techniques such as clarifying, questioning, predicting, and summarizing. It embraces the idea that students can effectively learn from each other. There are empirical studies that show the efficacy of reciprocal teaching even in subjects such as mathematics. For instance, it was found that children who were taught using this strategy showed higher levels of accuracy in mathematical computations in comparison with those who were not. The same success has been obtained in the cases of students learning in diverse situations such as those with learning disabilities and those who are at risk of academic failure, among others. These studies also cover learners from elementary to college levels.\n\nStudents collaborate to answer a big question that is the learning objective. Each group has differentiated questions that increases in cognitive ability to allow students to progress and meet the learning objective.\n\nStudents are placed in small groups (or teams). The class in its entirety is presented with a lesson and the students are subsequently tested. Individuals are graded on the team's performance. Although the tests are taken individually, students are encouraged to work together to improve the overall performance of the group.\n\nRally Table is another process of cooperative learning. In this process, the class or the students are divided into groups. This is done to encourage group learning, team building and cooperative learning. It is the written version of Robin Table.\n\nStudents are placed into small groups to study and prepare for a trivia game. This gives students incentive to learn and have some fun learning the material. This is a group exercise so not one student is to blame\n\nTeam game tournament is an effective technique of cooperative learning wherein groups are created that function in the class for a period of time. In this technique the groups revise a portion of material before writing a written test. This motivates those students that have the fear of writing the test and to learn and reinforce what has been already learnt.\nThis method is one of the learning strategies designed by Robert Slavin for the purpose of review and mastery in the learning. This method was basically to increase student's skills, increase interaction and self-esteem between students.\nIn this technique the students study in the class. The material is supplied and are taught in groups or individually through different activities. The students after receiving the material review it and then bring 2-6 points from their study into their assigned groups. Since the tournament is based on a material there is a specific answer.\n\nCharacteristics\n\nThe students compete in the tournament after a designated time to study by forming groups of 3-4 students where the stronger students compete with the weaker students and winner of the respective teams is moved to a high level team while the students who don't score well are moved to an easier level. This ensures that students of the same ability are competing with each other.\"\n\nPurpose\n\nTGT enhances student cooperation and friendly competition which allows different students with different capabilities to work together and acquire mastery in the topics assigned to them. The students have the independence to have interactions with different students. The benefit of this activity is that it holds the students responsible for the material they have to prepare.\n\nAdvantages\n\n\nDisadvantages\n\n\nTGT is an effective tool to teach mathematics as it motivates and helps students acquire skills and mastery with the help of their peer and through healthy competition.\n\nResearch on cooperative learning demonstrated \"overwhelmingly positive\" results and confirmed that cooperative modes are cross-curricular. Cooperative learning requires students to engage in group activities that increase learning and adds other important dimensions. The positive outcomes include academic gains, improved race relations and increased personal and social development. Students who fully participate in group activities, exhibit collaborative behaviors, provide constructive feedback, and cooperate with their groups have a higher likelihood of receiving higher test scores and course grades at the end of the semester. Cooperative learning is an active pedagogy that fosters higher academic achievement. Cooperative learning has also been found to increase attendance, time on task, enjoyment of school and classes, motivation, and independence.\n\nBenefits and applicability of cooperative learning:\n\nCooperative learning results in:\n\nCooperative learning is significant in business:\n\nCooperative Learning has many limitations that could cause the process to be more complicated than first perceived. Sharan (2010) describes the constant evolution of cooperative learning as a threat. Because cooperative learning is constantly changing, there is a possibility that teachers may become confused and lack complete understanding of the method. The fact that cooperative learning is such a dynamic practice means that it can not be used effectively in many situations. Also teachers can get into the habit of relying on cooperative learning as a way to keep students busy. While cooperative learning will consume time, the most effective application of cooperative learning hinges on an active instructor. Teachers implementing cooperative learning may also be challenged with resistance and hostility from students who believe that they are being held back by their slower teammates or by students who are less confident and feel that they are being ignored or demeaned by their team.\n\nStudents often provide feedback in the form of evaluations or reviews on success of the teamwork experienced during cooperative learning experiences. Peer review and evaluations may not reflect true experiences due to perceived competition among peers. Students might feel pressured into submitting inaccurate evaluations due to bullying. To eliminate such concerns, confidential evaluation processes may help to increase evaluation strength.\n\nGroup hate is defined as \"a feeling of dread that arises when facing the possibility of having to work in a group When students develop group hate their individual performance in the group suffers and in turn the group as a whole suffers. There are many factors that lead students to experience these feelings of group hate some of the more crucial elements include:\nWhen students are given a choice to choose learning activities (group based or individual work) students often evaluate several factors that lead them to a chose if they would like to work in groups or not.  The three most common factors listed are: \nMore often the students choose to do the work individually because they feel as if they can do a better job individually than they can as a group.\n\nWhat factors lead to a student forming group hate? It is difficult to say A, B, and C cause group hate simply due to the fact that each group is unique and everyone is different. However, there are several concerns that lead to students developing group hate. \nConcerns about the teachers' role usually stem from lack of communication from the teacher as to what exactly is expected of the group.  It is difficult for a teacher to strike the sweet spot of not being a helicopter teacher and remain involved in the project while also not being too \"loosey goosey\".  While a good teacher may be able to strike the balance every time this is a difficult task and most teachers tend to lean one way or the other. This can cause confusion with the students. This is only amplified when the students are put into groups and asked to complete a project with little instructions on how to do so. The way a teacher chooses to structure a project can influence how a student perceives the project overall.  Whether or not a student likes a teaching style or not can influence if they develop group hate.\n\nThe next concern that leads students to developing group hate is simply that students get sick of working with the same group members over and over again.  Cooperative learning  is becoming so common that students are beginning to develop group hate simply because they are doing so many group projects. Students express opinion such as \"so many group projects with the same people\", \"we are all up in each others business\". While the building of personal relationships can be a positive aspect of cooperative learning  it can also be a negative if you are having to continually work with people who are constantly letting you down or being difficult to work with.  Unfortunately, it is common to have group members that exhibit signs of loafing within the group.\n\nLoafing is defined as \"students who don't take responsibility for their own role, even if it is the smallest role in the group.\" Students expect that group based learning will be fair for everyone within the group.  In order for cooperative learning  to be fair the work load must be shared equally within the group.  Many students fear that this will not take place.  This leads to the students developing group hate. \"The fear that some members of the group will act as passengers or social loafers and derive a benefit (generally a good grade) from the group activity undermines the effectiveness of the group. Some students hoard their intellectual capital to make sure that no one unjustly benefits from it. Ironically, some of the students most indignant about \"slackers\" or \"freeloaders\" make immediate assumptions about their peers and insist from the outset that they will have to take care of everything in order to maintain control. There are many ways for a concern about equity to warp the function of a group. Therefore, to make groups more effective, the most important thing an instructor can do to defuse student resistance to cooperative learning  is to focus attention on the issue of \"fairness.\"In order for students not to develop group hate the instructors must be very aware of this process and take steps to insure that the project is \"fair\".  This can be a difficult task.  It is often difficult to gage what students are loafing while the project is taking place unless, other students in the group bring the problem to the attention of the instructor.  \n\nIt is a common practice to have the groups self assess after the project is complete. However, \"Assessment can be the Achilles heel of cooperative learning\" Students often will assess their group positively in hopes that they will in return be assessed the same way.  This often leads to inaccurate assessments of the group.  \"For most instructors, one of the greatest pedagogical challenges for a group communication course is to help students realize that the benefits of cooperative learning  outweigh the costs involved\".\n\nAnother aspect of cooperative learning that leads to group members developing group hate is the fact that \"groups are unable to achieve sufficient cohesion because they fail to manage conflict effectively\". The students are not usually in a group long enough to develop good group cohesion and establish effective ways to resolve conflict. The problem is that most students have had a negative experience in groups and consequently are apprehensive to get into such a situation again.  \"One answer to this dilemma is to demonstrate how groups trump individuals in terms of problem solving\". If instructors are able to effectively accomplish this it is a positive step towards eliminating group hate. \n\nGroup hate exists in almost all student groups.  Whether it be because of past bad experiences, concerns about how the project will play out, worries about group members loafing, or not knowing how to effectively manage conflict that may arise within the group.  However, group based learning is an important aspect of higher education and should continue to be used. More and more companies are turning towards team based models in order to become more efficient in the work place.  By limiting student feelings of group hate this will lead to students having better group experiences and learning how to work better in groups.\n\nCooperative learning  is becoming more and more popular within the American education system. It is almost uncommon not to have some cooperative learning  elements within a collage class. However, it is not uncommon to hear students expressing negative opinions regarding cooperative learning. Why is this?  Feichtner and Davis put it elegantly by stating, \"entirely too many students are leaving the classroom experiencing only the frustrations of cooperative learning  and not the numerous benefits possible through team based effort\". One of the main flaws that we see with previous research is that the research is almost always done from the perspective of the instructor.   This is giving us a flawed view of cooperative learning  as the instructors are not the one who are participating in the cooperative learning. \n\n\"From the (often blind) viewpoint of instructors, we had always viewed cooperative learning  as an added advantage for the students – an opportunity to receive additional support while working closely with their peers.  We had never really considered what a disastrous experience some frustrated students must endure, or why some students reported only positive experiences from classes utilizing group learning techniques.\"\n\nIn order to better understand the phenomenon of cooperative learning  it is crucial that it be looked at through the student's perspective.  It is important to understand what makes cooperative learning  successful for some students and unsuccessful for others.    \n\nThere are many reasons why competitors tend to achieve less than they would if they were working cooperatively. And there have also been lots of studies making a claim that cooperative learning is more effective than competitive learning and individualistic efforts. But studies also show that competition and individualistic efforts can be constructive and should be encouraged when they are appropriately structured.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9327496", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9327496", "title": "Czechoslovak Society of Arts and Sciences", "text": "Czechoslovak Society of Arts and Sciences\n\nCzechoslovak Society of Arts and Sciences, until 1978 known as Czechoslovak Society of Arts and Sciences in America, is an international non-profit organization with the aim to connect people with interest in Czech and Slovak intellectual contributions all around the world, supporting cooperation in culture, sciences, and education. For six decades, the Society has been promoting Czech and Slovak culture, history, and achievements of all sorts in the world affairs. It connects individuals interested in joining an international community of mutual inspirations, but also institutions with similar aims.\n\nThe Society was founded in Washington DC in 1958 on the basis of the Washington DC local chapter of the Czechoslovak National Council of America (headquartered in Chicago), by Dr. Jaroslav Němec, a lawyer and exiled chief military prosecutor, with significant support from Vlasta Vraz, president of the Czechoslovak National Council of America.\n\nIn the years 1961-1978, the Society was registered as Czechoslovak Society of Arts and Sciences in America in the New York State. From March 1965 to January 1975, the Society used a secretariat at 381 Park Avenue South, New York City. This office space became a meeting point of the Society's members and other intellectuals, including visitors from Czechoslovakia. Scholars could find useful books and periodicals here. It was also used as the Society's publications distribution center and archive.\n\nIn November 1978, the Society's head office was incorporated in the nation's capital Washington DC, where it was incepted. In November 1978, also the Society's official name was changed - it was shortened to Czechoslovak Society of Arts and Sciences, to reflect its international character and new local chapters being created also outside of the United States.\n\nAll operations of this organization are carried out by unpaid volunteers. From its inception, the Society has been independent and non-partisan.\n\nJaroslav Němec convinced world-renown mathematician Václav Hlavatý to become the first President of the Society. Němec became its first Secretary General. In the years 1968-1970, Němec served as the Society's President and in 1980-1985, he also edited the Society's newsletter \"SVU NEWS / ZPRÁVY SVU\".\n\nIn the beginning, Němec was also able to get support for the project of creating this Society among known artists and writers: Jarmila Novotná, Rafael Kubelík, Rudolf Firkušný, Ladislav Radimský, and others. Among politicians, he got Ladislav Feierabend, Juraj Slávik, Jozef Lettrich, Arnošt Heidrich, Štefan Osuský. Among the founding members there were also Joseph Hašek (father of Eliska Haskova Coolidge) and Francis Schwarzenberg.\n\nThe Society publishes a quarterly newsletter \"SVU NEWS/ ZPRÁVY SVU\", and an English periodical of scholarly and literary substance, the semi-annual \"KOSMAS - Czech, Slovak, and Central European Studies\".\n\nDuring the communist era in Czechoslovakia, the Society published a Czech language and Slovak language literary and humanistic periodical: \"PROMĚNY - PREMENY/ METAMORPHOSES\" for nearly thirty years, which included articles by forbidden authors.\n\nThe Society held its First World Congress in Washington, D.C. in 1962, attended by more than 200 scholars, scientists, and artists from all over the world. There were sixty papers read at these meetings, their subject ranging from linguistics to sociology and science. This was followed by the Second World Congress in 1964, on the campus of Columbia University in New York City. This time, about 120 papers were presented by scholars - not just by the Society members but also by a number of invited guests from all over the United States, Canada, South America, Australia and Western Europe. The papers covered most major fields of intellectual endeavor, including history, literature and linguistics, music and fine arts, social sciences, and the biological and physical sciences.\n\nSince then, every even year, the Society has convened a world congress. The program includes presentations of scholarly papers, discussion panels, concerts, artistic exhibits and social events. The lecture program covers a wide range of subjects and disciplines, providing platforms for exchanges of views. The lectures, seminars and symposia, as well as printed materials are generally presented in English.\nThe first fifteen world congresses were held in the U.S. or Canada, usually on university campuses. The Sixteenth SVU World Congress in 1992 was held for the first time in Prague.\n\nThe Society has established the practice of convening specialized conferences every other year, usually in between the World Congresses.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39038773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39038773", "title": "David Hargreaves (actor)", "text": "David Hargreaves (actor)\n\nDavid Hargreaves (born 2 February 1940) is an English actor, commonly seen on gritty television dramas in the 1970s and 1980s set in the north of England, and BBC children's television of the same era.\n\nHe was born in New Mills, Derbyshire, He trained as a science teacher, at City of Leeds Training College, and at the Central School of Speech and Drama.\n\nHargreaves worked as a supply teacher at Rising Hill Comprehensive School in Islington, before joining the Royal Shakespeare Company to play in the first \"The Wars of the Roses\" Cycle of plays in 1963/65. He played Hotspur in \"Henry IV part 1\" and Leontes in \"A Winters Tale\" for the North East Shakespeare Festival run by Joseph O'Connor in 1965, before joining Olivier's National Theatre, appearing in \"Much Ado about Nothing\", \"Mother Courage\", \"The Crucible\", \"Royal Hunt of the Sun\", \"Love for Love\", \"Othello\", \"The Storm\", \"A Flea in Her Ear\" and \"Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead\". After an extensive career in repertory theatre, television and radio, he returned to the RSC in 2004 to play Capulet in \"Romeo and Juliet\" in Peter Gill's production, and as Gloucester in Bill Alexander's production of \"King Lear\" to Corin Redgrave's Lear. Returned to the RSC in 2008/09 to play Baptista Minola in \"The Taming of the Shrew\", directed, by Conal Morrison, and as Man in \"The Cordelia Dream\", written by Marina Carr, directed by Selina Cartmell, for the RSC at Wilton's Music Hall. In 2005 he returned to the National Theatre in a co-production with the Royal Exchange Theatre, Manchester, to play Charlie in \"On the Shore of the Wide World\". In 2011 he played God in Tony Harrison's, \"The Mysteries\", directed by Deborah Bruce, and in 2012 played the King of France/Nym/Erpingham, in Dominic Dromgoole's production of \"Henry V\", both at Shakespeare's Globe. 2015 he played Giles Corey in The Crucible, and in 2016, Gloucester in King Lear, both directed by Tom Morris at the Bristol Old Vic.\n\n\n\n\nHe married in 1966 in Buckinghamshire, meeting his wife, Chloe Ashcroft, at the National Theatre. They live in Whiteshill and Ruscombe in Gloucestershire and have a son (born 1968) and daughter (born April 1971). He likes to make his own cheese and wine.\n\n"}
{"id": "30042898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30042898", "title": "Duffy Books in Homes", "text": "Duffy Books in Homes\n\nDuffy Books in Homes is the trading name of The Alan Duff Charitable Foundation. It is a New Zealand registered, literacy-focused charitable organization which has links to similar organisations in the United States and Australia.\n\nThe programme was conceived in 1992 when the author Alan Duff visited Camberley School in Hastings, New Zealand. According to Principal Peter Johnstone \"Alan was appalled to see so many children come from bookless homes.\"\n\nFollowing a meeting with philanthropist Christine Fernyhough in 1994 the Alan Duff Charitable Foundation was legally formed. The official launch of the programme (then known as Books in Homes) took place at Tairangi School in Wellington on 24 August 1995 and was attended by then Prime Minister Jim Bolger.\n\nThe programme began with 80 schools, 16,000 students and 14 sponsors. In 2018 the programme reported over 520 schools, nearly 300 Early Childhood Centres, over 100,000 students and more than 200 funding partners and supporters.\n\nNotable personalities who were once students in Duffy Books in Homes schools include BMX rider Sarah Walker and Miss World New Zealand 2010 Cody Yerkovich.\n\nThe programme has a stated aim of inspiring \"a love of books in Duffy children so they become adults who inspire a love of reading.\" Its core function is as a form of book club in which students at low decile primary and intermediate schools in New Zealand order books from a brochure which are then presented at role model assemblies at the end of three school terms. Each child participating receives a minimum of five new books each year.\n\nAdditional components of the programme include annual awards for parents and grandparents, effort in reading and writing and excellence in attitude. There are also weekly book awards for good behaviour.\n\nTwo troupes of performers visit the majority of schools in the programme annually to perform a literacy-focused stage show. In 2018 the Duffy Theatre performs a show entitled 'Duffy and the Cloak Bay Bully'.\n\nThe programme is also offered to early childhood education centres under the name 'Ready 4 Reading'.\n\nDuff stipulated that schools bear some of the cost of funding the programme themselves. Schools fund approximately one third of the cost of the programme with the remaining costs being met by the New Zealand Government and private sponsorship.\n\nMajor supporters include Mainfreight, Scholastic, Ernst & Young, Carter Holt Harvey, Rotary, Te Puni Kōkiri, Norm Hewitt, Latitude Financial Services and The Warehouse.\n\nResearch undertaken in 1996 and 1997 by Dr Warwick Elley suggested that year 5 and 6 children in eight schools \"improved (their reading ability) by 35% more than they would have without the Duffy Programme.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "46477734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46477734", "title": "Elaine Bonazzi", "text": "Elaine Bonazzi\n\nElaine Bonazzi (born 1936, Endicott, New York) is an American operatic mezzo-soprano who had an active international career from the 1950s through the 1990s. A singer with an unusually broad repertoire that encompassed both classical and contemporary works, she notably created roles in the world premieres of operas by composers Dominick Argento, David Carlson, Carlisle Floyd, Gian Carlo Menotti, Thomas Pasatieri, and Ned Rorem. In the United States she was particularly active with the New York City Opera, the Santa Fe Opera, and the Washington National Opera.\n\nBorn in Endicott, New York, Bonazzi earned a Bachelor of Music in vocal performance from the Eastman School of Music in 1951. She then pursued graduate music studies at Hunter College and the Juilliard School, and studied privately with Elda Ercole in New York City. In 1955 she was the contralto soloist in Johann Sebastian Bach's \"Mass in B minor\" with the Oratorio Society of New York at Hunter College Auditorium. In 1956 she portrayed Lady Pamela in Daniel Auber's \"Fra Diavolo\" with the Hunter College Opera. That same year she portrayed Gertrude Stein in the lauded Off-Broadway production of Virgil Thomson's \"The Mother of Us All\" at the Phoenix Theatre.\n\nIn 1958 Bonazzi made her debut with the Santa Fe Opera as Meg Page in \"Falstaff\". That same year she portrayed Mrs. Linton in the world premiere of Carlisle Floyd's \"Wuthering Heights\". She returned frequently to the SFO during her career, portraying such roles as Baba the Turk in \"The Rake's Progress\", Countess Geschwitz in \"Lulu\", Herodias in \"Salome\", La chatte in \"L'enfant et les sortilèges\", Marcellina in \"The Marriage of Figaro\", Mark Smeaton in Gaetano Donizetti's \"Anna Bolena\", The Mother in \"Mavra\", the old woman in \"Yerma\", Prince Orlofsky in \"Die Fledermaus\", Saint Catherine in \"Jeanne d'Arc au bûcher\", Tisbe in \"La Cenerentola\", Zita in \"Gianni Schicchi\", and the title roles in \"Carmen\" and \"Regina\". Her final appearance at the SFO was as Mrs. Peachum in John Gay's \"The Beggar's Opera\" in 1992.\n\nIn 1960 Bonazzi made her debut with the Washington National Opera as the Countess in Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky's \"The Queen of Spades\". She returned to Washington D.C. later that year to perform the role of Death in Igor Stravinsky's \"The Nightingale\" under the baton of the composer. Other roles she performed with the WNO during her career included Agata in \"Maria Golovin\", The Old Baroness in Samuel Barber's \"Vanessa\" Seibel in \"Faust\", and Ursule in \"Béatrice et Bénédict\". In 1986 she appeared at the WNO as Queen Isabella of Spain in \"Christopher Columbus\", a pastiche of music by Jacques Offenbach patched together by Patric Schmid. Her final appearance with the company was as the Countess in \"The Queen of Spades\" in 1989.\n\nIn 1965 Bonazzi created the role of Christine in the world premiere of Ned Rorem's \"Miss Julie\" for her debut with the New York City Opera. She sang several more roles with the NYCO, including Clairon in \"Capriccio\", Frau von Luber in \"Der Silbersee\", Katisha in \"The Mikado\", Mme. Armfeldt in \"A Little Night Music\", Mother in \"Louise\", Mrs. Lovett in \"Sweeney Todd\", and Suzuki in \"Madama Butterfly\". In 1979 she created the role of Grace-Helen Broome in the world premiere of Dominick Argento's \"Miss Havisham's Fire\" with the NYCO. Her final appearance with the NYCO was as Marie in Frank Loesser's \"The Most Happy Fella\" in 1991 with director Arthur Allan Seidelman.\n\nIn 1962 Bonazzi made her debut at the Opera Company of Boston as Maddalena in \"Rigoletto\" under conductor Sarah Caldwell. In 1963 she created the role of The Spy in Gian Carlo Menotti's \"Labyrinth\" which was commissioned for television by the NBC Opera Theatre. In 1964 she appeared as Suzuki in \"Madama Butterfly\" at the Dallas Opera. In 1966 she was one of the soloists in the world premiere of Stravinsky's \"Requiem Canticles\" at the McCarter Theater in Princeton.\n\nIn 1971 Bonazzi portrayed the Sorceress to Maureen Forrester's Dido in \"Dido and Aeneas\" at the Caramoor International Music Festival. She returned to Caramoor the following year to portray Arnalta in \"L'incoronazione di Poppea\" under the baton of Julius Rudel. In 1972 she created the title role in the world premiere of Thomas Pasatieri's Emmy Award winning opera, \"The Trial of Mary Lincoln\" which was commissioned by the National Educational Television network under the leadership of Peter Herman Adler.\n\nIn 1973 Bonazzi portrayed Daniel in the Handel Society of New York's production of \"Belshazzar\" under conductor Stephen Simon at Carnegie Hall. That same year she gave her only performance with the Metropolitan Opera in New York as the Sorceress in \"Dido and Aeneas\" under the baton of Richard Dufallo. In 1976 she created the role of Lavinia Davenport in the world premiere of Thomas Pasatieri's \"Washington Square\" at the Michigan Opera Theater.\n\nBonazzi appeared in numerous rarely seen operas with the Clarion Music Society at Alice Tully Hall during the 1970s and 1980s, including Anfione in Agostino Steffani's \"Niobe, regina di Tebe\", Apollo in Francesco Cavalli's \"Giasone\", Baroness Aspasia in Gioachino Rossini's \"La pietra del paragone\", Juno in Gluck's \"Le nozze d'Ercole e d'Ebe\", and Lavinia in Steffani's \"Amor vien dal destino\".\n\nIn 1981 Bonazzi portrayed The Marquise of Birkenfeld in \"La fille du régiment\" with Tulsa Opera. In 1983 she portrayed Matryona Pavlovna/Korablyova in Franco Alfano's \"Risurrezione\" at the Cincinnati Opera. In 1985 she portrayed Baba the Turk at the Sarasota Opera. That same year she created the role of Madame d'Urfé in the world premiere of Argento's \"Casanova's Homecoming\" at the Minnesota Opera. In 1993 she created the role of Lady Neville in the world premiere of David Carlson's \"The Midnight Angel\" at the Opera Theater of Saint Louis. She returned to Saint Louis the following year to perform the role of Mistress Quickly in \"Falstaff\".\n\nOn the international stage Bonazzi performed leading roles at the Dutch National Opera, the National Theatre in Belgrade, and the Palacio de Bellas Artes in Mexico City. In 1964 she portrayed The Secretary in \"The Consul\" at the Vancouver Opera. In 1974 she portrayed Countess Geschwitz in Alban Berg's \"Lulu\" at the Festival dei Due Mondi.\n\nBonazzi taught for many years on the voice faculty at the Stony Brook University, retiring from there in 2012. Prior to teaching at SBU, she was a member of the vocal music faculty at the Peabody Institute of Music. Several of her students have had successful singing careers, including soprano Christine Goerke and mezzo-soprano Deanne Meek. She is married to cellist Jerome Carrington.\n"}
{"id": "47960630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47960630", "title": "FAAIM", "text": "FAAIM\n\nThe Foundation for Asian American Independent Media is an arts education organization based in Chicago that focuses on Asian American art, history, and issues and hosts an annual Asian American Showcase.\n\nThe Foundation for Asian American Independent Media (FAAIM) was founded in 1995 by journalist Ben Kim, and musicians Sooyoung Park and William Shin. Known then as Fortune4, the organization’s first project was a New York Times- and MTV-lauded recording and subsequent tour of Asian American rock bands, entitled Ear of the Dragon. In 1996, the group created the Annual Chicago Asian American Showcase (the Showcase), the nation’s only film festival dedicated exclusively to Asian American film. Incorporated as a not-for-profit in 1999, FAAIM works with other cultural institutions in Chicago on Asian-American media and education.\n\nSince 2001 Tim Hugh has been the Executive Director of FAAIM. Other members include Vincent Chung and Larry Lee.\n\nThe Asian American Showcase is an annual film festival based in Chicago originally held at the Film Center at SAIC (now called the Gene Siskel Film Center). The Asian American Showcase exhibits independent films created by or about Asian Americans, as well as other media such as writing and music.\n\n"}
{"id": "30469517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30469517", "title": "F (film)", "text": "F (film)\n\nF, also known as \"The Expelled\", is a 2010 British horror film written and directed by Johannes Roberts and starring David Schofield and Eliza Bennett.\n\nA teacher at Wittering College in north London, Robert Anderson (Schofield), is hit in the face by a pupil and forced to take three months' leave to avoid being sued by the parents of the child for giving the pupil an F grade, which is against school policy.\n\nAnderson is deeply affected by the incident and upon his return to teaching, he is an alcoholic, emotionally disturbed and separated from his wife, Helen (Aubrey). Their daughter, Kate (Bennett), lives with her mother Helen and has classes with her father, but does not respect him. The headmistress, Sarah Balham (Gemmell), loathes Anderson and clearly wants to get rid of him, but the National Union of Teachers does not allow her to fire him. She indirectly accuses him of bad teaching and bringing alcohol into school.\n\nWhen Anderson reads about violence in another school, he sends a memo advising all employees at the school about the high number of attacks on teachers and auxiliary staff annually. As a result, he is considered paranoid and delusional by everybody at the school.\n\nOne day, after hours, Anderson is overseeing detention, in which he has placed his daughter. They argue over her use of a mobile telephone during the detention session – he slaps her in the face and immediately regrets it.\n\nSoon after, the protagonist notes some strange movements outside the school and discovers that the telephone lines are down. As he stands by a closed window, a milkshake is thrown at him from outside and the message 'U R Dead' appears written in the milkshake. He advises security guard James (Finlay Robertson), who seems uninterested.\n\nMeanwhile, another security guard Brian, (Jamie Kenna) has been murdered by hoodies who locked him in a wheelie bin and set fire to it.\n\nLooking for his daughter, Anderson visits the school library but, after he leaves, the librarian is confronted by two hooded characters, who murder her.\n\nAnderson finds his daughter smoking in the toilets with her boyfriend, Jake Eaves (Max Fowler) and headmistress Balham instructs them all to go home. Kate tells Balham that her father slapped her and Balham asks her to make a statement. Meanwhile, PE teacher Nicky (McKee) passes through the gymnasium and into the changing rooms, where she is attacked by four teenagers wearing hoodies and carrying crowbars.\n\nHaving left the building, Anderson goes to his car, but finds the dead security guard's torch on the ground in the car park. Meanwhile, Kate is writing her statement in the staff room. Balham realises she can finally sack Anderson and, unable to use the telephone, calls security guard James to ensure that the teacher does not re-enter the school, and Helen, to inform her of the assault.\n\nBalham subsequently finds a body and escapes from two attackers herself, only for them to kill her before she can call the police. Anderson then discovers her corpse, her face badly disfigured. He tries to call the police, but when an attacker enters the room he hides, abandoning the phone, which the attacker crushes.\n\nLeaving the building, Kate is immediately chased back in by one of the attackers. Her boyfriend Eaves, who was waiting outside, enters the building to look for her. She comes across a member of auxiliary staff Gary, (Tom Mannion), who is unaware of the situation in the school and goes after the attackers, but is electrocuted immediately after discovering Eaves, who is wrapped in barbed wire.\n\nAnderson and James team up to find Kate, who has left a 'Help' note in view of a CCTV camera. They discover Nicky struggling along a corridor, but she has been badly mutilated. Finding the room in which Kate is hiding, they are confronted by a hoodie and in a moment of cowardice, James locks the door with Anderson inside.\n\nMeanwhile, the police arrive and enter the school. A female police officer is pushed down a flight of concrete stairs by one of the hoodies and the other policeman is hit with a crowbar in the face. The attackers then find James, who tries to escape but is cornered by the youths.\n\nAnderson finds Kate, but one of the hooded attackers catches the pair off guard, but his attack on Anderson is deflected and he stabs and wounds Kate. Anderson manages to overpower the attacker, grabs the knife and stabs him multiple times, then picks up his daughter and rushes out of the building. However, when they reach his car, they spot Helen's car in the car park and realise that she has arrived at the school.\n\nAnderson has to decide in an instant whether to save his daughter's life by driving her to hospital, or to save Helen by re-entering the school. He puts Kate in the back seat of the car and drives her to the hospital, leaving Helen to walk around the school, unaware of her potential fate.\n\n\n\"Variety\" wrote \"Green-tinged lensing provides a unifying, if oppressive, aesthetic, while the sparse, haunting score, incorporating sinister choral elements, makes the grade.\" \"The Gaurdian\" wrote \"F doesn't quite work, but it aims at something interesting.\" While \"Bloody Disgusting\" said \"It's not perfect, but it's a solid, well shot slasher/thriller hybrid that fans of Ils (Them) or Eden Lake should probably appreciate.\"\n"}
{"id": "2914332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2914332", "title": "Friedrich Hollaender", "text": "Friedrich Hollaender\n\nFriedrich Hollaender (in exile also Frederick Hollander; 18 October 189618 January 1976) was a German film composer and author.\n\nHe was born in London, where his father, operetta composer Victor Hollaender, worked as a musical director at the Barnum & Bailey Circus. Young Hollaender had a solid music and theatre family background: his uncle Gustav was director of the Stern Conservatory in Berlin, his uncle Felix Hollaender was a well-known novelist and drama critic, who later worked with Max Reinhardt at the Deutsches Theater.\n\nIn 1899 Hollaender's family returned to Berlin, his father began teaching at the Stern Conservatory, where his son became a student in Engelbert Humperdinck's master class. In the evening he played the piano at silent film performances in local cinemas, developing the art of musical improvisation. By the age of 18 he was employed as a répétiteur at the New German Theatre in Prague and also was put in charge of troop entertainment at the Western Front of World War I.\n\nHaving finished his studies, he composed music for productions by Max Reinhardt and became involved in Berlin's Kabarett scene. Together with Kurt Tucholsky, Klabund, Walter Mehring, Mischa Spoliansky and Joachim Ringelnatz he worked in venues like Reinhardt's \"Schall und Rauch\" ensemble at the Großes Schauspielhaus or the \"Wilde Bühne\" led by Trude Hesterberg at the Theater des Westens in Charlottenburg, where he established the \"Tingel-Tangel-Theater\" cabaret in 1931.\n\nIn 1919 he married the actress Blandine Ebinger, the couple divorced in 1926. Their daughter Philine later became the wife of the cabarettist Georg Kreisler. Hollaender had his final breakthrough, when he wrote the film score for \"The Blue Angel\" (1930), including the most popular song \"Falling in Love Again (Can't Help It)\", performed by Marlene Dietrich.\n\nHe had to leave Nazi Germany in 1933 because of his Jewish descent and first moved to Paris. He emigrated to the United States the next year, where he wrote the music for over a hundred films, including \"Destry Rides Again\" (1939), \"A Foreign Affair\" (1948), \"The 5,000 Fingers of Dr. T\" (1953 Academy Award nomination) and \"Sabrina\" (1954). Many of his songs were again made famous by Marlene Dietrich. He can be seen as the piano accompanist in \"A Foreign Affair\" (on the songs, \"Black Market\", \"Illusions\" and \"Ruins of Berlin\"). He received four Academy Award nominations for composition. As \"Frederick Hollander\", he also wrote the semi-autobiographical novel \"Those Torn From Earth\", released in 1941, which details the flight from Germany that many Jewish members of the film industry embarked on after the Nazis came to power and instituted the Nuremberg Laws.\n\nIn 1956 he returned to Germany and again worked for several years as a revue composer at the Theater Die Kleine Freiheit in Munich. He made a cameo appearance in Billy Wilder's film comedy \"One, Two, Three\" (1960) as a Kapellmeister. Hollaender died 1976 in Munich and is buried in the Obergiesing \"Ostfriedhof\".\n\n\n\n1–29.\n\nOfficial Frederick Hollander / Friedrich Hollaender website"}
{"id": "31039389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31039389", "title": "Gabrielle Bernstein", "text": "Gabrielle Bernstein\n\nGabrielle Bernstein is an American motivational speaker, life coach, and author. Bernstein teaches primarily from the text \"A Course In Miracles\". She teaches a practical application of the Course's principles emphasizing self-love, forgiveness, and a holistic approach to spirituality. In 2009, Bernstein was featured in \"The New York Times\" as a \"guru\" for the next generation.\n\nIn 2008, she founded HerFuture.com, a social networking and mentoring website for women. Bernstein has written four books, and Bernstein has also worked as a public relations entrepreneur and founded the PR firm SparkPlug Communications as well as co-founding the Women’s Entrepreneurial Network, a non-profit professional organization that connects female entrepreneurs.\n\nBernstein grew up in Larchmont, New York. Growing up, she attended Jewish summer camp and led a youth group. In 2001, she graduated from Syracuse University where she studied theatre.\n\n"}
{"id": "33931386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33931386", "title": "Hugh Worthington", "text": "Hugh Worthington\n\nHugh Worthington (21 June 1752 – 26 July 1813), was a British Arian divine. He was born in Leicester, and studied at the Daventry Academy under Caleb Ashworth. Worthington was a pastor at Salters' Hall, London, from 1782; a trustee of Dr Daniel Williams's foundations, 1785; and was a lecturer on classics and logic from 1786 to 1789. He published sermons and other writings.\n\nHe died on 26 July 1813, and was buried in Bunhill Fields burial ground.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58194429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58194429", "title": "Jane Smisor Bastien", "text": "Jane Smisor Bastien\n\nJane Smisor Bastien is an American author and educator, best known for publishing works on teaching piano methods and techniques. She published more than 500 books that were translated into sixteen languages.\n\nBastien graduated from Barnard College in 1957 and received a masters from Teachers College, Columbia University. While at Columbia, she met fellow student Neil A. Kjos Jr., who later became president of Neil A. Kjos Music Company. She met Jim Bastien in New Orleans, Louisiana and they married in 1961.\n\nBastien taught at H. Sophie Newcomb Memorial College at Tulane University. Bastien, along with her husband James, wrote numerous books on piano teaching. The Music Teachers National Association awarded her the Lifetime Achievement Award in 1999 and the Citation for Leadership in 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "2465497", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2465497", "title": "John Hegarty (academic)", "text": "John Hegarty (academic)\n\nJohn Hegarty was elected 43rd Provost of Trinity College, Dublin, Ireland in 2001 for a ten-year term.\n\nHe was born in Claremorris, County Mayo, and was educated locally at St Colman's College. He holds a BSc in Physics/Chemistry/Mathematics/Philosophy from St Patrick's College, Maynooth, a HDipEd also from Maynooth and a PhD from National University of Ireland, Galway.\n\nFollowing a postdoctoral stay at the University of Wisconsin–Madison, he was a research scientist at Bell Labs, New Jersey for six years. He returned to Ireland in 1986 as Professor of Laser Physics in Trinity College. Producing over 140 publications, and developing a number of patents, he was a co-founder of Optronics Ireland and of campus company Eblana Photonics. He is a member of the Royal Irish Academy, the American Physical Society, the Optical Society of America, the Institute of Electronic and Electrical Engineers and Fellow of the Institute of Physics.\n\nPrior to becoming Provost, Hegarty was Dean of Research and Head of the Physics Department.\n\nHegarty is married to Neasa Ní Chinnéide, President of the European Bureau for Lesser-Used Languages, and they have two children, Cillian and Ciarán.\n\n"}
{"id": "37792463", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37792463", "title": "Journal of Research in Special Educational Needs", "text": "Journal of Research in Special Educational Needs\n\nJournal of Research in Special Education Needs is a peer-reviewed academic journal published thrice annually by Wiley-Blackwell on behalf of the National Association for Special Educational Needs. The journal was established in 2001 and covers research on special education needs.\n"}
{"id": "56803089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56803089", "title": "Lawrence Blum", "text": "Lawrence Blum\n\nLawrence Alan Blum (born April 16, 1943) is an American philosopher who is Distinguished Professor of Liberal Arts and Education and Emeritus Professor of Philosophy at the University of Massachusetts, Boston. He is known for his work in the philosophy of education, moral philosophy, and race. \n\n"}
{"id": "21394297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21394297", "title": "Life skills", "text": "Life skills\n\nLife skills are abilities for adaptive and positive behavior that enable humans to deal effectively with the demands and challenges of life. This concept is also termed as psychosocial competency. The subject varies greatly depending on social norms and community expectations but skills that function for well-being and aid individuals to develop into active and productive members of their communities are considered as life skills.\n\nThe UNICEF Evaluation Office suggests that \"there is no definitive list\" of psychosocial skills;\nnevertheless UNICEF enumerates psychosocial and interpersonal skills that are generally well-being oriented, and essential alongside literacy and numeracy skills. Since it changes its meaning from culture to culture and life positions, it is considered a concept that is elastic in nature. But UNICEF acknowledges social and emotional life skills identified by Collaborative for Academic, Social and Emotional Learning (CASEL). Life skills are a product of synthesis: many skills are developed simultaneously through practice, like humor, which allows a person to feel in control of a situation and make it more manageable in perspective. It allows the person to release fears, anger, and stress & achieve a qualitative life. \n\nFor example, decision-making often involves critical thinking (\"what are my options?\") and values clarification (\"what is important to me?\"), (\"How do I \"feel\" about this?\"). Ultimately, the interplay between the skills is what produces powerful behavioral outcomes, especially where this approach is supported by other strategies.\n\nLife skills can vary from financial literacy, through substance-abuse prevention, to therapeutic techniques to deal with disabilities such as autism.\n\nThe World Health Organization in 1999 identified the following core cross-cultural areas of life skills:\n\nUNICEF listed similar skills and related categories in its 2012 report.\n\nLife skills curricula designed for K-12 often emphasize communications and practical skills needed for successful independent living as well as for developmental-disabilities/special-education students with an Individualized Education Program (IEP).\n\nLife skills are often taught in the domain of parenting, either indirectly through the observation and experience of the child, or directly with the purpose of teaching a specific skill. Parenting itself can be considered as a set of life skills which can be taught or comes natural to a person. Educating a person in skills for dealing with pregnancy and parenting can also coincide with additional life skills development for the child and enable the parents to guide their children in adulthood.\n\nMany life skills programs are offered when traditional family structures and healthy relationships have broken down, whether due to parental lapses, divorce, psychological disorders or due to issues with the children (such as substance abuse or other risky behavior). For example, the International Labour Organization is teaching life skills to ex-child laborers and at-risk children in Indonesia to help them avoid and to recover from worst forms of child abuse.\n\nWhile certain life skills programs focus on teaching the prevention of certain behaviors, they can be relatively ineffective. Based upon their research, the Family and Youth Services Bureau, a division of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services advocates the theory of Positive Youth Development (PYD) as a replacement for the less effective prevention programs. PYD focuses on the strengths of an individual as opposed to the older decrepit models which tend to focus on the \"potential\" weaknesses that have yet to be shown. The Family and Youth Services Bureau has found that individuals who were trained in life skills by positive development model identified themselves with a greater sense of confidence, usefulness, sensitivity and openness rather than that of preventive model.\n\n"}
{"id": "33983258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33983258", "title": "Malala Yousafzai", "text": "Malala Yousafzai\n\nMalala Yousafzai (\"Malālah Yūsafzay\": ; ; born 12 July 1997) is a Pakistani activist for female education and the youngest Nobel Prize laureate. She is known for human rights advocacy, especially the education of women and children in her native Swat Valley in Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, northwest Pakistan, where the local Taliban had at times banned girls from attending school. Her advocacy has grown into an international movement, and according to former Pakistani Prime Minister Shahid Khaqan Abbasi, she has become \"the most prominent citizen\" of the country.\n\nYousafzai was born to a Pashtun family in Mingora, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa, Pakistan. Her family came to run a chain of schools in the region. Considering Muhammad Ali Jinnah and Benazir Bhutto as her role models, she was particularly inspired by her father's thoughts and humanitarian work. In early 2009, when she was 11–12, she wrote a blog under a pseudonym for the BBC Urdu detailing her life during the Taliban occupation of Swat. The following summer, journalist Adam B. Ellick made a \"New York Times\" documentary about her life as the Pakistani military intervened in the region. She rose in prominence, giving interviews in print and on television, and she was nominated for the International Children's Peace Prize by activist Desmond Tutu.\n\nOn 9 October 2012, while on a bus in the Swat District, after taking an exam, Yousafzai and two other girls were shot by a Taliban gunman in an assassination attempt in retaliation for her activism; the gunman fled the scene. Yousafzai was hit in the head with a bullet and remained unconscious and in critical condition at the Rawalpindi Institute of Cardiology, but her condition later improved enough for her to be transferred to the Queen Elizabeth Hospital in Birmingham, UK. The attempt on her life sparked an international outpouring of support for Yousafzai. Deutsche Welle reported in January 2013 that Yousafzai may have become \"the most famous teenager in the world\". Weeks after the attempted murder, a group of fifty leading Muslim clerics in Pakistan issued a \"fatwā\" against those who tried to kill her. The Taliban was internationally denounced by governments, human rights organizations and feminist groups. Taliban officials responded to condemnation by further denouncing Yousafzai, indicating plans for a possible second assassination attempt which was justified as a religious obligation. Their statements resulted in further international condemnation.\n\nFollowing her recovery, Yousafzai became a prominent activist for the right to education. Based out of Birmingham, she founded the Malala Fund, a non-profit organisation, and in 2013 co-authored \"I am Malala\", an international best seller. In 2012, she was the recipient of Pakistan's first National Youth Peace Prize and the 2013 Sakharov Prize. In 2014, she was the co-recipient of the 2014 Nobel Peace Prize, along with Kailash Satyarthi of India. Aged 17 at the time, this made her the youngest-ever Nobel Prize laureate. In 2015, Yousafzai was a subject of the Oscar-shortlisted documentary \"He Named Me Malala\". The 2013, 2014 and 2015 issues of \"Time\" magazine featured her as one of the most influential people globally. In 2017, she was awarded honorary Canadian citizenship and became the youngest person to address the House of Commons of Canada. Yousafzai attended Edgbaston High School from 2013 to 2017, and is currently studying for a bachelor's degree in Philosophy, Politics and Economics at Lady Margaret Hall, Oxford.\n\nYousafzai was born on 12 July 1997 in the Swat District of Pakistan's northwestern Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province, into a lower-middle-class family. She is the daughter of Ziauddin Yousafzai and Tor Pekai Yousafzai. Her family is Sunni Muslim of Pashtun ethnicity. The family did not have enough money for a hospital birth and as a result, Yousafzai was born at home with the help of neighbours. She was given her first name \"Malala\" (meaning \"grief-stricken\") after Malalai of Maiwand, a famous Pashtun poet and warrior woman from southern Afghanistan. Her last name, Yousafzai, is that of a large Pashtun tribal confederation that is predominant in Pakistan's Swat Valley, where she grew up. At her house in Mingora, she lived with her two younger brothers, Khushal and Atal, her parents, Ziauddin and Toor Pekai, and two pet chickens.\n\nFluent in Pashto, Urdu and English, Yousafzai was educated mostly by her father, Ziauddin Yousafzai, who is a poet, school owner, and an educational activist himself, running a chain of private schools known as the Khushal Public School. In an interview, Yousafzai once stated that she aspired to become a doctor, though later her father encouraged her to become a politician instead. Ziauddin referred to his daughter as something entirely special, allowing her to stay up at night and talk about politics after her two brothers had been sent to bed.\n\nInspired by Muhammad Ali Jinnah and Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto, Yousafzai started speaking about education rights as early as September 2008, when her father took her to Peshawar to speak at the local press club. \"How dare the Taliban take away my basic right to education?\", Yousafzai asked her audience in a speech covered by newspapers and television channels throughout the region. In 2009, Yousafzai began as a trainee and then a peer educator in the Institute for War and Peace Reporting's Open Minds Pakistan youth programme, which worked in schools in the region to help young people engage in constructive discussion on social issues through the tools of journalism, public debate and dialogue.\n\nIn late 2008, Aamer Ahmed Khan of the BBC Urdu website and his colleagues came up with a novel way of covering the Taliban's growing influence in Swat. They decided to ask a schoolgirl to blog anonymously about her life there. Their correspondent in Peshawar, Abdul Hai Kakar, had been in touch with a local school teacher, Ziauddin Yousafzai, but could not find any students willing to do so, as it was considered too dangerous by their families. Finally, Yousafzai suggested his own daughter, 11-year-old Malala. At the time, Taliban militants led by Maulana Fazlullah were taking over the Swat Valley, banning television, music, girls' education, and women from going shopping. Bodies of beheaded policemen were being displayed in town squares. At first, a girl named Aisha from her father's school agreed to write a diary, but then the girl's parents stopped her from doing it because they feared Taliban reprisals. The only alternative was Yousafzai, four years younger than the original volunteer, and in seventh grade at the time. Editors at the BBC unanimously agreed.\n\"We had been covering the violence and politics in Swat in detail but we didn't know much about how ordinary people lived under the Taliban\", said Mirza Waheed, the former editor of BBC Urdu. Because they were concerned about Yousafzai's safety, BBC editors insisted that she use a pseudonym. Her blog was published under the byline \"Gul Makai\" (\"cornflower\" in Urdu), a name taken from a character in a Pashtun folktale.\n\nOn 3 January 2009, Yousafzai's first entry was posted to the BBC Urdu blog. She would hand-write notes and then pass them on to a reporter who would scan and e-mail them. The blog records Yousafzai's thoughts during the First Battle of Swat, as military operations take place, fewer girls show up to school, and finally, her school shuts down.\n\nIn Mingora, the Taliban had set an edict that no girls could attend school after 15 January 2009. The group had already blown up more than a hundred girls' schools. The night before the ban took effect was filled with the noise of artillery fire, waking Yousafzai several times. The following day, Yousafzai also read for the first time excerpts from her blog that had been published in a local newspaper.\n\nFollowing the edict, the Taliban destroyed several more local schools. On 24 January 2009, Yousafzai wrote: \"Our annual exams are due after the vacations but this will only be possible if the Taliban allow girls to go to school. We were told to prepare certain chapters for the exam but I do not feel like studying.\"\n\nIn February 2009, girls' schools were still closed. In solidarity, private schools for boys had decided not to open until 9 February, and notices appeared saying so. On 7 February, Yousafzai and her brother returned to their hometown of Mingora, where the streets were deserted, and there was an \"eerie silence\". \"We went to the supermarket to buy a gift for our mother but it was closed, whereas earlier it used to remain open till late. Many other shops were also closed\", she wrote in her blog. Their home had been robbed and their television was stolen.\n\nAfter boys' schools reopened, the Taliban lifted restrictions on girls' primary education, where there was co-education. Girls-only schools were still closed. Yousafzai wrote that only 70 pupils attended, out of 700 pupils who were enrolled.\n\nOn 15 February, gunshots could be heard in the streets of Mingora, but Yousafzai's father reassured her, saying \"Don't be scared – this is firing for peace.\" Her father had read in the newspaper that the government and the militants were going to sign a peace deal the next day. Later that night, when the Taliban announced the peace deal on their FM Radio studio, another round of stronger firing started outside. Yousafzai spoke out against the Taliban on the national current affairs show \"Capital Talk\" on 18 February. Three days later, local Taliban leader Maulana Fazlulla announced on his FM radio station that he was lifting the ban on women's education, and girls would be allowed to attend school until exams were held on 17 March, but they had to wear burqas.\n\nOn 25 February, Yousafzai wrote on her blog that she and her classmates \"played a lot in class and enjoyed ourselves like we used to before\". Attendance at Yousafzai's class was up to 19 of 27 pupils by 1 March, but the Taliban were still active in the area. Shelling continued, and relief goods meant for displaced people were looted. Only two days later, Yousafzai wrote that there was a skirmish between the military and Taliban, and the sounds of mortar shells could be heard: \"People are again scared that the peace may not last for long. Some people are saying that the peace agreement is not permanent, it is just a break in fighting.\"\n\nOn 9 March, Yousafzai wrote about a science paper that she performed well on, and added that the Taliban were no longer searching vehicles as they once did. Her blog ended on 12 March 2009.\n\nAfter the BBC diary ended, Yousafzai and her father were approached by \"New York Times\" reporter Adam B. Ellick about filming a documentary. In May, the Pakistani Army moved into the region to regain control during the Second Battle of Swat. Mingora was evacuated and Yousafzai's family was displaced and separated. Her father went to Peshawar to protest and lobby for support, while she was sent into the countryside to live with relatives. \"I'm really bored because I have no books to read\", Yousafzai is filmed saying in the documentary.\n\nThat month, after criticising militants at a press conference, Yousafzai's father received a death threat over the radio by a Taliban commander. Yousafzai was deeply inspired in her activism by her father. That summer, for the first time, she committed to becoming a politician and not a doctor, as she had once aspired to be.\n\nBy early July, refugee camps were filled to capacity. The prime minister made a long-awaited announcement saying that it was safe to return to the Swat Valley. The Pakistani military had pushed the Taliban out of the cities and into the countryside. Yousafzai's family reunited, and on 24 July 2009 they headed home. They made one stop first – to meet with a group of other grassroots activists that had been invited to see United States President Barack Obama's special representative to Afghanistan and Pakistan, Richard Holbrooke. Yousafzai pleaded with Holbrooke to intervene in the situation, saying, \"Respected ambassador, if you can help us in our education, so please help us.\" When her family finally did return home, they found it had not been damaged, and her school had sustained only light damage.\n\nFollowing the documentary, Yousafzai was interviewed on the national Pashto-language station AVT Khyber, the Urdu-language \"Daily Aaj\", and Canada's \"Toronto Star\". She made a second appearance on \"Capital Talk\" on 19 August 2009. Her BBC blogging identity was being revealed in articles by December 2009. She also began appearing on television to publicly advocate for female education. From 2009 to 2010 she was the chair of the District Child Assembly of the Khpal Kor Foundation through 2009 and 2010.\n\nIn October 2011, Archbishop Desmond Tutu, a South African activist, nominated Yousafzai for the International Children's Peace Prize of the Dutch international children's advocacy group KidsRights Foundation. She was the first Pakistani girl to be nominated for the award. The announcement said, \"Malala dared to stand up for herself and other girls and used national and international media to let the world know girls should also have the right to go to school.\" The award was won by Michaela Mycroft of South Africa.\n\nHer public profile rose even further when she was awarded Pakistan's first National Youth Peace Prize two months later in December. On 19 December 2011, Prime Minister Yousaf Raza Gillani awarded her the National Peace Award for Youth. At the proceedings in her honour, Yousafzai stated that she was not a member of any political party, but hoped to found a national party of her own to promote education. The prime minister directed the authorities to set up an IT campus in the Swat Degree College for Women at Yousafzai's request, and a secondary school was renamed in her honour. By 2012, Yousafzai was planning to organise the Malala Education Foundation, which would help poor girls go to school.\n\nAs Yousafzai became more recognised, the dangers facing her increased. Death threats against her were published in newspapers and slipped under her door. On Facebook, where she was an active user, she began to receive threats. Eventually, a Taliban spokesman said they were \"forced\" to act. In a meeting held in the summer of 2012, Taliban leaders unanimously agreed to kill her.\n\nOn 9 October 2012, a Taliban gunman shot Yousafzai as she rode home on a bus after taking an exam in Pakistan's Swat Valley. Yousafzai was 15 years old at the time. According to reports, a masked gunman shouted \"Which one of you is Malala? Speak up, otherwise I will shoot you all\", and, upon being identified, Yousafzai was shot with one bullet, which travelled 18 inches from the side of her left eye, through her neck and landed in her shoulder. Two other girls were also wounded in the shooting: Kainat Riaz and Shazia Ramzan, both of whom were stable enough following the shooting, to speak to reporters and provide details of the attack.\n\nAfter the shooting, Yousafzai was airlifted to a military hospital in Peshawar, where doctors were forced to begin operating after swelling developed in the left portion of her brain, which had been damaged by the bullet when it passed through her head. After a five-hour operation, doctors successfully removed the bullet, which had lodged in her shoulder near her spinal cord. The day following the attack, doctors performed a decompressive craniectomy, in which part of her skull was removed to allow room for swelling.\n\nOn 11 October 2012, a panel of Pakistani and British doctors decided to move Yousafzai to the Armed Forces Institute of Cardiology in Rawalpindi. Mumtaz Khan, a doctor, said that she had a 70% chance of survival. Interior Minister Rehman Malik said that Yousafzai would be moved to Germany, where she could receive the best medical treatment, as soon as she was stable enough to travel. A team of doctors would travel with her, and the government would bear the cost of her treatment. Doctors reduced Yousafzai's sedation on 13 October, and she moved all four limbs.\n\nOffers to treat Yousafzai came from around the world. On 15 October, Yousafzai travelled to the United Kingdom for further treatment, approved by both her doctors and family. Her plane landed in Birmingham, England where she was treated at the Queen Elizabeth Hospital, one of the specialties of this hospital being the treatment of military personnel injured in conflict. According to media reports at the time, the UK Government stated that \"[t]he Pakistani government is paying all transport, migration, medical, accommodation and subsistence costs for Malala and her party.\"\n\nYousafzai had come out of her coma by 17 October 2012, was responding well to treatment, and was said to have a good chance of fully recovering without any brain damage. Later updates on 20 and 21 October stated that she was stable, but was still battling an infection. By 8 November, she was photographed sitting up in bed. On 11 November, Yousafzai underwent surgery for eight and a half hours, in order to repair her facial nerve.\n\nOn 3 January 2013, Yousafzai was discharged from the hospital to continue her rehabilitation at her family's temporary home in the West Midlands, where she had weekly physiotherapy. She underwent a five-hour long operation on 2 February to reconstruct her skull and restore her hearing with a cochlear implant, after which she was reported to be in stable condition. Yousafzai wrote in July 2014 that her facial nerve had recovered up to 96%.\n\nThe murder attempt received worldwide media coverage and produced an outpouring of sympathy and anger. Protests against the shooting were held in several Pakistani cities the day after the attack, and over 2 million people signed the Right to Education campaign's petition, which led to ratification of the first Right to Education Bill in Pakistan. Pakistani officials offered a 10 million rupee (US$105,000) reward for information leading to the arrest of the attackers. Responding to concerns about his safety, Yousafzai's father said, \"We wouldn't leave our country if my daughter survives or not. We have an ideology that advocates peace. The Taliban cannot stop all independent voices through the force of bullets.\"\n\nPakistan's president Asif Ali Zardari described the shooting as an attack on \"civilized people\". UN Secretary-General Ban Ki-moon called it a \"heinous and cowardly act\". United States President Barack Obama found the attack \"reprehensible, disgusting and tragic\", while Secretary of State Hillary Clinton said Yousafzai had been \"very brave in standing up for the rights of girls\" and that the attackers had been \"threatened by that kind of empowerment\". British Foreign Secretary William Hague called the shooting \"barbaric\" and that it had \"shocked Pakistan and the world\".\n\nAmerican singer Madonna dedicated her song \"Human Nature\" to Yousafzai at a concert in Los Angeles the day of the attack, as well had a temporary Malala tattoo on her back. American actress Angelina Jolie wrote an article about explaining the event to her children and answering questions like \"Why did those men think they needed to kill Malala?\" Jolie later donated $200,000 to the Malala Fund for girls' education. Former First Lady of the United States Laura Bush wrote an op-ed piece in \"The Washington Post\" in which she compared Yousafzai to Holocaust diarist Anne Frank. Indian director Amjad Khan announced that he would be making a biographical film based on Yousafzai.\n\nEhsanullah Ehsan, chief spokesman for the Pakistani Taliban, claimed responsibility for the attack, saying that Yousafzai \"is the symbol of the infidels and obscenity\", adding that if she survived, the group would target her again.\nIn the days following the attack, the Taliban reiterated its justification, saying Yousafzai had been brainwashed by her father: \"We warned him several times to stop his daughter from using dirty language against us, but he didn't listen and forced us to take this extreme step.\" The Taliban also justified its attack as part of religious scripture, stating that the Quran says that \"people propagating against Islam and Islamic forces would be killed\", going on to say that \"Sharia says that even a child can be killed if he is propagating against Islam\".\n\nOn 12 October 2012, a group of 50 Islamic clerics in Pakistan issued a fatwā – a ruling of Islamic law – against the Taliban gunmen who tried to kill Yousafzai. Islamic scholars from the Sunni Ittehad Council publicly denounced attempts by the Pakistani Taliban to mount religious justifications for the shooting of Yousafzai and two of her classmates.\n\nAlthough the attack was roundly condemned in Pakistan, \"some fringe Pakistani political parties and extremist outfits\" have aired conspiracy theories, such as the shooting being staged by the American Central Intelligence Agency to provide an excuse for continuing drone attacks. The Pakistani Taliban and some other pro-Taliban elements branded Yousafzai an \"American spy\".\n\nOn 15 October 2012, UN Special Envoy for Global Education Gordon Brown, the former British Prime Minister, visited Yousafzai while she was in the hospital, and launched a petition in her name and \"in support of what Malala fought for\". Using the slogan \"I am Malala\", the petition's main demand was that there be no child left out of school by 2015, with the hope that \"girls like Malala everywhere will soon be going to school\". Brown said he would hand the petition to President Zardari in Islamabad in November.\n\nThe petition contains three demands:\n\nThe day after the shooting, Pakistan's Interior Minister Rehman Malik stated that the Taliban gunman who shot Yousafzai had been identified. Police named 23-year-old Atta Ullah Khan, a graduate student in chemistry, as the gunman in the attack. he remained at large, possibly in Afghanistan.\n\nThe police also arrested six men for involvement in the attack, but they were later released due to lack of evidence. In November 2012, US sources confirmed that Mullah Fazlullah, the cleric who ordered the attack on Yousafzai, was hiding in Eastern Afghanistan.\n\nOn 12 September 2014, ISPR Director, Major General Asim Bajwa, told a media briefing in Islamabad that the 10 attackers belong to a militant group called \"Shura\". General Bajwa said that Israrur Rehman was the first militant group member who was identified and apprehended by the troops. Acting upon the information received during his interrogation, all other members of the militant group were arrested. It was an intelligence-based joint operation conducted by ISI, police, and military.\n\nIn April 2015, the ten who were arrested were sentenced to life in prison by Judge Mohammad Amin Kundi, a counterterrorism judge, with the chance of eligibility for parole, and possible release, after 25 years. It is not known if the actual would-be murderers were among the ten sentenced. In June 2015, it was revealed that eight of the ten men tried in-camera for the attack had in fact been secretly acquitted, insiders revealed one of the men acquitted and freed was the murder bid's mastermind. It is believed that all other men who shot Yousafzai fled to Afghanistan afterwards and were never even captured. The information about the release of suspects came to light after the London \"Daily Mirror\" attempted to locate the men in prison. Senior police official Salim Khan stated that the eight men were released because there was not enough evidence to connect them to the attack.\n\nMullah Fazlullah was killed by a U.S.-Afghan air strike in June 2018.\n\nYousafzai spoke before the United Nations in July 2013, and had an audience with Queen Elizabeth II in Buckingham Palace. In September, she spoke at Harvard University, and in October, she met with US President Barack Obama and his family; during that meeting, she confronted him on his use of drone strikes in Pakistan. In December, she addressed the Oxford Union. In July 2014, Yousafzai spoke at the Girl Summit in London, advocating for rights for girls. In October 2014, after receiving the World Children's Prize for the rights of the child in Mariefred, Sweden, she announced donating $50,000 through the UNRWA, to help rebuild 65 schools in Gaza.\n\nEven though she was fighting for women's rights as well as children's rights, Yousafzai did not describe herself as a feminist when asked on Forbes Under 30 Summit in 2014. In 2015, however, Yousafzai told Emma Watson she decided to call herself a feminist after hearing Watson's speech at the UN launching the HeForShe campaign.\n\nOn 12 July 2015, her 18th birthday, Yousafzai opened a school in the Bekaa Valley, Lebanon, near the Syrian border, for Syrian refugees. The school, funded by the not-for-profit Malala Fund, offers education and training to girls aged 14 to 18 years. Yousafzai called on world leaders to invest in \"books, not bullets\".\n\nYousafzai has repeatedly condemned the Rohingya persecution in Myanmar. In June 2015, the Malala Fund released a statement in which Yousafzai argues that the Rohingya people deserve \"citizenship in the country where they were born and have lived for generations\" along with \"equal rights and opportunities.\" She urges world leaders, particularly in Myanmar, to \"halt the inhuman persecution of Burma's Muslim minority Rohingya people.\" In September 2017, speaking in Oxford, Yousafzai said that \"This should be a human rights issue. Governments should react to it. People are being displaced, they're facing violence.\" Yousafzai also posted a statement on Twitter calling for Nobel Peace Prize laureate Aung San Suu Kyi to condemn the treatment of the Rohingya people in Myanmar. Suu Kyi has avoided taking sides in the conflict, or condemning violence against the Rohingya people, leading to widespread criticism.\n\nIn 2014, Yousafzai stated that she wished to return to Pakistan following her education in the U.K., and inspired by Benazir Bhutto, she would consider running for prime minister: \"If I can help my country by joining the government or becoming the prime minister, I would definitely be up for this task\". She repeated this aim in 2015 and 2016. However, Yousafzai noted in 2018 that her goal had changed, stating that \"now that I have met so many presidents and prime ministers around the world, it just seems that things are not simple and there are other ways that I can bring the change that I want to see\". In an interview with David Letterman, for Netflix's show \"My Next Guest Needs No Introduction\", Yousafzai was asked \"Would you ever want to hold a political position?\" and replied \"Me? No.\"\n\nFormer British Prime Minister Gordon Brown arranged for Yousafzai's appearance before the United Nations in July 2013. Brown also requested that McKinsey consultant Shiza Shahid, a friend of the Yousafzai family, chair Yousafzai's charity fund, which had gained the support of Angelina Jolie. Google's vice-president Megan Smith also sits on the fund's board.\n\nIn November 2012, the consulting firm Edelman began work for Yousafzai on a pro bono basis, which according to the firm \"involves providing a press office function for Malala\". The office employs five people, and is headed by speechwriter Jamie Lundie. McKinsey also continues to provide assistance to Yousafzai.\n\nOn 12 July 2013, Yousafzai's 16th birthday, she spoke at the UN to call for worldwide access to education. The UN dubbed the event \"Malala Day\". Yousafzai wore one of Benazir Bhutto's shawls to the UN. It was her first public speech since the attack, leading the first ever Youth Takeover of the UN, with an audience of over 500 young education advocates from around the world.\n\nYousafzai received several standing ovations. Ban Ki-moon, who also spoke at the session, described her as \"our hero\". Yousafzai also presented the chamber with \"The Education We Want\", a Youth Resolution of education demands written by Youth for Youth, in a process co-ordinated by the UN Global Education First Youth Advocacy Group, telling her audience:\n\nThe Pakistani government did not comment on Yousafzai's UN appearance, amid a backlash against her in Pakistan's press and social media.\n\nWords from the speech were used as lyrics for \"Speak Out\", a song by Kate Whitley commissioned by BBC Radio 3 and broadcast on International Women's Day 2017.\n\nOn 10 October 2014, Yousafzai was announced as the co-recipient of the 2014 Nobel Peace Prize for her struggle against the suppression of children and young people and for the right of all children to education. Having received the prize at the age of 17, Yousafzai is the youngest Nobel laureate. Yousafzai shared the prize with Kailash Satyarthi, a children's rights activist from India. She is the second Pakistani to receive a Nobel Prize after 1979 Physics laureate Abdus Salam.\n\nAfter she was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize, there was praise, but also some disapproval of the decision. A Norwegian jurist, Fredrik Heffermehl, commented on being awarded the Nobel Prize: \"This is not for fine people who have done nice things and are glad to receive it. All of that is irrelevant. What Nobel wanted was a prize that promoted global disarmament.\"\n\nAdán Cortés, a college student from Mexico City and asylum seeker, interrupted Yousafzai's Nobel Peace Prize award ceremony in protest for the 2014 Iguala mass kidnapping in Mexico, but was quickly taken away by security personnel. Yousafzai later sympathised, and acknowledged that problems are faced by young people all over the world, saying \"there are problems in Mexico, there are problems even in America, even here in Norway, and it is really important that children raise their voices\".\n\nIn March 2018, Yousafzai was the subject of an interview with David Letterman for his Netflix show \"My Next Guest Needs No Introduction\". Speaking about the Taliban, she opined that their misogyny comes from a superiority complex, and is reinforced by finding \"excuses\" in culture or literature, such as by misinterpreting teachings of Islam. On the topic of her attackers, Yousafzai comments that \"I forgive them because that's the best revenge I can have\". Pointing out that the person who attacked her was a young boy, she says that \"He thought he was doing the right thing\".\n\nAsked about the presidency of Donald Trump, Yousafzai criticised that \"Some of the things have really disappointed me, like sexual harassment and the ban on Muslims and racism.\" She also criticised the Trump administration's proposed budget cuts to education, saying that education is the first step to \"eradicating extremism and ending poverty\". Throughout the episode, clips are shown of Yousafzai acting as a tour guide for prospective students to her college Lady Margaret Hall, Oxford.\n\nYousafzai's memoir \"\", co-written with British journalist Christina Lamb, was published in October 2013 by Little, Brown and Company in the US and by Weidenfeld & Nicolson in the UK. A reviewer for \"The Guardian\" called the book \"fearless\" and stated that \"the haters and conspiracy theorists would do well to read this book\", though she criticised \"the stiff, know-it-all voice of a foreign correspondent\" that is interwoven with Yousafzai's. A reviewer for \"The Washington Post\" called the book \"riveting\" and wrote \"It is difficult to imagine a chronicle of a war more moving, apart from perhaps the diary of Anne Frank.\" \"Entertainment Weekly\" gave the book a \"B+\", writing \"Malala's bravely eager voice can seem a little thin here, in \"I Am Malala\", likely thanks to her co-writer, but her powerful message remains undiluted.\"\n\nA children's edition of the memoir was published in 2014 under the title \"I Am Malala: How One Girl Stood Up for Education and Changed the World\". According to \"Publishers Weekly\", in 2017 the book had sold almost 2 million copies, and there were 750,000 copies of the children's edition in print.\n\nYousafzai was the subject of the 2015 documentary \"He Named Me Malala\", which was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Documentary Feature. In 2017, a Hindi biopic film \"Gul Makai\" was announced, with Reem Sameer Shaikh portraying her.\n\nYousafzai authored a picture book, \"Malala's Magic Pencil\", which was illustrated by Kerascoët and published on 17 October 2017. By March 2018, \"The Bookseller\" reported that the book had over 5,000 sales in the UK. In a review for \"The Guardian\", Imogen Carter describes the book as \"enchanting\", opining that it \"strikes just the right balance\" between \"heavy-handed\" and \"heartfelt\", and is a \"welcome addition to the frustratingly small range of children's books that feature BAME central characters\". Rebecca Gurney of \"The Daily Californian\" gives the book a grade of 4.5 out of 5, calling it a \"beautiful account of a terrifying but inspiring tale\" and commenting \"Though the story begins with fantasy, it ends starkly grounded in reality.\"\n\nIn March 2018, it was announced that Yousafzai's next book \"We Are Displaced: True Stories of Refugee Lives\" would be published on 4 September 2018 by Little, Brown and Company's Young Readers division. The book is about refugees, and will include stories from Yousafzai's own life along with those of people she has met. Speaking about the book, Yousafzai said that \"What tends to get lost in the current refugee crisis is the humanity behind the statistics\" and \"people become refugees when they have no other option. This is never your first choice.\" Profits from the book will go to Yousafzai's charity Malala Fund. The book was delayed to January 2019.\n\nFrom March 2013 to July 2017, Yousafzai was a pupil at the all-girls Edgbaston High School in Birmingham. In August 2015, she received 6 A*s and 4 As at GCSE level. At A Level, she studied Geography, History, Mathematics and Religious Studies. Also applying to Durham, Warwick and London School of Economics, Yousafzai was interviewed at Lady Margaret Hall, Oxford in December 2016 and received a conditional offer of three As in her A Levels; in August 2017, she was accepted to study Philosophy, Politics and Economics (PPE).\n\nReception of Yousafzai in Pakistan is mostly negative. Yousafzai's opposition to Taliban policy makes her unpopular among Taliban sympathisers. A \"Dawn\" columnist alleges that she is scapegoated by the failing state government, and a journalist in \"The Nation\" wrote that Yousafzai is hated by \"overzealous patriots\" who are keen to deny oppression of women in the country. Yousafzai's statements conflict with the view that militancy in Pakistan is a result of Western interference, and conservatives and Islamic fundamentalists describe her ideology as \"anti-Pakistan\" and \"anti-Islam\".\n\nIn 2015, the All Pakistan Private Schools Federation (APPSF) banned \"I Am Malala\" in all Pakistani private schools, and the president Mirza Kashif Ali released a book \"I Am Not Malala\". The book accuses Yousafzai of attacking Pakistan's army under the pretence of female education, describes her father as a \"double agent\" and a \"traitor\" and denounces the Malala Fund's promotion of secular education. However, Ali claimed that \"we are not against her but the ideology being imposed on us\" and pointed out that the APPSF went on a national strike when Yousafzai was attacked.\n\nConspiracy theorists in newspapers and on social media have alleged that Yousafzai staged her assassination attempt, or that she is an agent of the American Central Intelligence Agency. Many Pakistanis view her as an \"agent of the West\", due to her Nobel prize, Oxford education and residence in England. Another conspiracy theory alleges that Yousafzai is a Jewish agent. However, Yousafzai does have some support in Pakistani media; Farman Nawaz argues that Yousafzai would have gained more fame in Pakistan if she belonged to the province of Punjab. His opinion was not given importance by the mainstream media of Pakistan but his views in this regard were published by \"Daily Outlook Afghanistan\". Yousafzai is seen as courageous by some Pakistanis.\n\nOn 29 March 2018, Yousafzai returned to Pakistan for the first time since the shooting. Meeting Prime Minister Shahid Khaqan Abbasi, she gave a speech in which she said it had been her dream to return \"without any fear\". Yousafzai then visited her hometown Mingora in Swat Valley. The APPSF, a group representing the 173,000 private schools in Pakistan, organised \"I am not Malala Day\" on 30 March. Yousafzai responded by saying \"I am proud of my religion, and I am proud of my country.\"\n\nYousafzai has been received the following national and international honours, listed by the date they were awarded:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37918694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37918694", "title": "Marketing MBA", "text": "Marketing MBA\n\nMarketing MBA is a triannual peer-reviewed academic journal that covers research on marketing management firms and education in marketing. The editor-in-chief is Roman R. Sidorchuk (Plekhanov Russian Economic University). It was established in 2010 and is currently published by Green Mall Publications.\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in RePEc and the Russian Science Citation Index.\n"}
{"id": "2182307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2182307", "title": "Math for America", "text": "Math for America\n\nMath for America (MfA) is a nonprofit organization, founded in January 2004 by American billionaire mathematician, hedge fund manager, and philanthropist Jim Simons with a mission to promote recruitment and retention of high quality mathematics teachers in New York City secondary schools.\n\nAccording to Simons, he founded the program to address failures in the US education system to produce students highly qualified in STEM skills and knowledge, which reduces America's ability to compete in the global economy. He perceived the cause of the failure as low quality teachers, and saw that problem in turn as being caused by low salaries, lack of prestige, and lack of support and good training making the job unattractive to qualified candidates, many of whom could get jobs in lucrative fields like quantitative finance. He created the program to provide math and science teachers with higher salaries and better training and funded it with $25M of his own money, adding an additional $25M in 2006. In the initial program, people who were accepted into the program who had degrees in math but were not teachers received a stipend of about $18,000 per year for five years from MfA in addition to their salaries and received free tuition to a high quality one year Master's program in teaching, as well as mentoring and professional development support after the first year. The five-year period was selected because that is the period during which most new teachers drop out; the starting salary of a NYC math teacher with a graduate degree was around $50,000 at that time. The program also offered stipends to qualified existing teachers, to promote their retention in the field. People who were accepted into the program also had to agree that they would pay back some of the support they had received, if they dropped out of the program.\n\nBy 2011 MfA had expanded to science fields as well as math, and organizations had been established and funded in San Diego, Los Angeles, Berkeley, Calif., Utah, Boston, and the District of Columbia. Each site was autonomous, with its own board, fund-raising, and programs tailored to address local needs, but all coordinated with the founding organization and received funding from the Simons Foundation. It had also added two programs to support existing teachers in its New York City location: a Master Teacher Fellowship for experienced secondary school math teachers and the Early Career Fellowship for newer teachers.\n\nBy 2012 the program was working with 330 teachers in the New York City schools, and due to hiring freezes in the school system, reduced the size of its new teacher program and expanded its program to provide stipends to existing teachers; it also announced that in 2013 it would expand to include science teachers and middle school teachers. That year it also started a program offering $5,000 stipends to school administrators who attended seven MfA meetings per year. Its budget before 2012 had been $20M per year and it planned to increase the budget to $30M per year to support the expansion for experienced teachers.\n\nIn 2013 New York State launched a state-funded \"Master Teacher\" program to provide stipends to qualified existing teachers modeled on MfA's program.\n\nOngoing financial support for MfA programs comes from private donors and government grants.\n\n"}
{"id": "19776699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19776699", "title": "Ministry of Education (Brazil)", "text": "Ministry of Education (Brazil)\n\nThe Ministry of Education (Portuguese: \"Ministério da Educação\"), MEC, is a cabinet-level federal ministry of Brazil. The current Minister of Education is Mendonça Filho.\n\nIt is tasked with coordinating national education policy and daily affairs, from early childhood to the post-graduate level.\n\nThe acronym \"MEC\" used to refer to \"Ministério da Educação e Cultura,\" (), but it was split in 1985 into the Ministry of Education and Ministry of Culture. The Ministry of Education retained the \"MEC\" acronym, while the Ministry of Culture got the acronym \"MinC\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27322339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27322339", "title": "Music jury", "text": "Music jury\n\nA music jury is a final performance by a music student for a panel of jurors, usually consisting of faculty of the institution. Students attend private lessons throughout the year, and they perform at the end of a semester or the year, to illustrate progress before the panel. \n\nBoth cited references no longer exist.\n"}
{"id": "24350919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24350919", "title": "Music schools in Scotland", "text": "Music schools in Scotland\n\nMusic schools in Scotland are available at several levels. Formal music education begins at 4½ years and can progress as high as postgraduate studies. Education in Scotland is a responsibility of the Scottish Government. Music is regarded as being an integral part of the culture of Scotland.\n\nMusic services are working in almost all state schools and provide much of their instruction during the regular school day. Most of them offer instrumental tuition for pupils in their schools. On average one instrumental / vocal lesson lasts from 30 minutes and is usually given once a week.\n\nA primary school is usually limited in the numbers of pupils they provide lessons to and lessons usually comprise a small group of 2 to 4 children.\n\nMost independent (fee-paying) schools work on a similar basis to the above. Some independent schools such as Loretto School\nalso give music scholarships.\n\nScotland has six centres of excellence – schools which allow gifted children to maximise their potential (four for music and one each for dance and sport). These schools select a small number of pupils who show a special ability in music. Admission is by audition. The schools are located within comprehensive schools from which they receive normal academic classes. Students are attracted from within the local region and even nationally.\n\nThe music schools comprise:\n\nThe number of music students is relatively small in comparison with the host school. Secondary students at the City of Edinburgh Music school are 30-40 compared to 1,000 within the host High School, and of the 1,000 students of Douglas Academy, around 50 are music specialists. Typically, music students receive individual instrument lessons, theory and practice time within the music school. The City of Edinburgh Music School is the only 'centre of excellence' which directly operates within a primary school. The schools are funded by the Local Education Authority within which they are located.\n\nDouglas Academy Music School, Aberdeen City Music School and the National Centre of Excellence in Traditional Music all have Halls of Residence, and so are able to accommodate students from across Scotland.\n\nSt Mary's Music School is an independent (private) specialist music school in Edinburgh, Scotland, for children aged 9–18. The school offers education to musically talented children and is the only specialist full-time music school in Scotland. In addition to their main studies, students receive intensive instruction on a solo instrument and a program of music according to their age. This includes ear training, chamber music, chorus, composition, jazz and music technology.\n\nEntry is solely by audition. Successful applicants receive financial support through the Scottish Government’s Aided Places Scheme. Students combine both academic and music studies within the school. The school is also the choir school of St. Mary's Episcopal Cathedral and all its 70 students are either instrumentalists or choristers. It attracts its pupils nationally, from the rest of the UK and abroad.\n\nSt Mary's is a member of the UK Music and Dance Excellence (MADE) Schools and is within the tradition of other specialist music schools throughout Europe such as the Dresden Music Gymnasium; Sächsisches Landesgymnasium für Musik \"Carl Maria von Weber\" or the Yehudi Menuhin School, England\n\nAmateur or Private Schools of Music offers music education outside the general education system for students aged 4 to 20 + years. In general, students attend these schools, weekend or evening. The schools are, for example those provided by individuals, charitable or commercial organizations. Examples include the North East of Scotland Music School, Portobello Music School, Dunbar Music School and Yamaha Music School.\n\nIn addition qualified teachers provide musical training outside of an establishment or the mainstream education system for pupils aged 4 to 20+ years. The objective of education varies from amateur to training (pre-) professional music training, according to the personal ambitions of students.\n\nA number of universities have music departments and offer degrees in music — Bachelor, Master and Doctorate. They may be performance related and/or music theory which can be combined with other subjects, or they may be hybrid courses incorporating performance along with business and entrepreneurial skills. Scottish universities offering degrees include:\n\n\nThere are a number of colleges offering popular and contemporary music courses in Scotland at NQ, National Certificate, Higher National Certificate and Higher National Diploma level. Many of these courses may specialise within a particular area of music, such as the Electronic Music and Recording course at Clydebank College. Scottish colleges offering these courses include:\n\n\nThe Royal Conservatoire of Scotland (RCS), formerly known as the Royal Scottish Academy of Music and Drama, is Scotland’s conservatoire of music, theatre and dance. Although there is some overlap with the music departments of Universities, the Conservatoire seeks to be practical and focuses on career development. In 1993, as the RSAMD, it was first in the United Kingdom which was granted to give their own degrees. Research degrees are validated by the University of St Andrews.\n\nThe Royal Conservatoire of Scotland operates a Junior Conservatoire, with classes on Saturdays during term-time. Approximately 250 students attend and the academy is intended for those children with above average musical ability and potential. The school day may include choir, theory and musicianship classes and principal study lesson. The day may also include orchestral and chamber music rehearsals.\n\nThe Army School of Bagpipe Music and Highland Drumming is a training centre of the British Army. Instructions in the military music of Scottish piper bagpipes and pipe bands is available.\n\n"}
{"id": "9976533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9976533", "title": "National Universities Commission", "text": "National Universities Commission\n\nThe National Universities Commission (NUC) of Nigeria is a government commission promoting quality higher education in Nigeria. It is located in the capital city of Abuja. The Commission was established in 1962 as an advisory agency in the Cabinet Office. In 1974, it became a statutory body and its first Executive Secretary was Professor Jibril Aminu. It is currently part of the Federal Ministry of Education and is a parastatal (government-owned corporation). \n\nThe Commission has a Governing Council, currently headed by Professor Shehu Galadanchi and its Executive Secretary is Prof. Abubakar Rasheed, who assumed office on August 3, 2016. Since its establishment, the Commission has transformed from a small office in the Cabinet Office to an important arm of government in the area of development and management of university education in Nigeria.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1458526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1458526", "title": "National language", "text": "National language\n\nA national language is a language (or language variant, e.g. dialect) that has some connection—de facto or de jure—with people and the territory they occupy. There is little consistency in the use of this term. One or more languages spoken as first languages in the territory of a country may be referred to informally or designated in legislation as national languages of the country. National or national languages are mentioned in over 150 world constitutions.\n\nC.M.B. Brann, with particular reference to India, suggests that there are \"four quite distinctive meanings\" for national language in a polity:\nThe last is usually given the title of official language.\n\nStandard languages, such as Standard German, Standard French, and Standard Spanish, may serve as national (language-in-common), regional, and international languages.\n\n\"National language\" and \"official language\" are best understood as two concepts or legal categories with ranges of meaning that may coincide, or may be intentionally separate. Stateless nations are not in the position to legislate an official language, but their languages may be sufficiently distinct and well-preserved to be national languages. Some languages may be recognized popularly as \"national languages,\" while others may enjoy official recognition in use or promotion.\n\nIn many African countries, some or all indigenous African languages are officially used, promoted, or expressly allowed to be promoted (usually taught in schools and written in important publications) as semi-official languages whether by long-term legislation or short-term, case-by-case executive (government) measures. \nTo be official, spoken and written languages may enjoy government or federalised use, major tax-funded promotion or at least full tolerance as to their teaching and employers' recognition in public education, standing on equal footing with the official language(s). Further, they may enjoy recognition as a language used in compulsory schooling and treasury money may be spent to teach or encourage adults in learning a language which is a minority language in a particular area to restore its understanding and spread its moral stories, rhymes, poems, phrases, songs, and other literary heritage which will promote social cohesion (where other languages remain) or will promote nationalist differentiation where another, non-indigenous language is deprecated.\n\nAlbanian is a national language in Albania and Kosovo and a regional national language for parts of Macedonia, southern Montenegro and Serbia.\n\nArabic is the national language in Algeria. Berber is also an official language. French has no official status but is widely used in education, business and the media.\n\nAndorra's national language is Catalan; moreover Catalan is an official language in several territories in Spain (Catalonia, Valencian Community, Balearic Islands), and is spoken (without official recognition or status) in territories in Spain (the Catalan-Aragonese borderlands known as La Franja and the Murcian municipality of El Carche), France (Pyrénées Orientales) and in Italy (Alghero).\n\nArmenia's national language is a separate branch in the linguistic family of Indo-European languages, Armenian. Armenian is widely spoken in Armenia as well as in its diaspora. The Armenian spoken in Armenia is known as Eastern Armenian, and this dialect is spoken as well, in the Armenian communities of Russia and Iran. While on the other hand, other Armenian communities such as the Armenian communities of Lebanon, Syria, Jerusalem etc. speak the Western Armenian dialect. |°\n\nAustralia has no official language, but is largely monolingual with English being the \"de facto\" national language. A considerable proportion of first and second generation migrants are bilingual. According to Ethnologue, 81% of people spoke English at home, including L2 speakers. Other languages spoken at home included Chinese 2.9%, Italian 1.2%, Arabic 1.1%, Greek 1%, Vietnamese 0.9% and Spanish 0.4%.\n\nThere were almost 400 languages spoken by Indigenous Australians prior to the arrival of Europeans. Only about 70 of these languages have survived and all but 30 of these are now endangered.\n\nAzerbaijani language is the national language in Azerbaijan.\n\nBengali (or Bangla) is the sole official language of Bangladesh.\n\nBosnia and Herzegovina's \"de facto\" sole national language is Serbo-Croatian. It is officially defined under the three names Bosnian, Croatian and Serbian, corresponding to the country's constituent ethnic groups. The Latin and Cyrillic alphabets both have official status.\n\nBulgarian is the national language in Bulgaria.\n\nCanada's official languages since the Official Languages Act of 1969 are English (Canadian English) and French (Canadian French). Depending on one's views of what constitutes a \"nation\", these two languages may be considered two equal national languages of the nation of Canada, or the national languages of two nations within one state, English Canada and French Canada.\n\nQuebec nationalists consider Quebec French the language of the Quebec nation.\n\nTwo of Canada's northern territories legislate a variety of Indigenous languages. Nunavut holds Inuktitut and Inuinnaqtun as official languages, and Northwest Territories has nine official languages aside from English and French: Cree, Dënesųłiné, Gwich’in, Inuinnaqtun, Inuktitut, Inuvialuktun, North and South Slavey and Tłı̨chǫ. As these official languages are legislated at a territorial (sub-federal) level, they can be construed as national languages.\n\nBesides these there many Indigenous languages of Canada which are the national languages of one or more of Canada's First Nations groups, Inuit and Métis (mixed First Nations-European peoples); a number of First Nations legislate at the Indigenous government levels their language as an official language of the Nation, such is the case with the Nisg̱a’a language in Nisg̱a’a. Notably the Cree language is spoken (with variations) from Alberta to Labrador, Anishinaabemowin is spoken across central Canada and Inuktitut is spoken across the arctic.\n\nThere are many languages spoken across China, with most people speaking one of several varieties of Chinese. During successive imperial dynasties, the spoken language of the capital city served as the official spoken language and was used across the country by government officials who traveled to communicate with one another. Dialects used for this purpose in different eras included those of Xi'an, Luoyang, Nanjing, Beijing, and other historical capital cities.\n\nAfter the Xinhai Revolution in 1911, the Kuomintang (Chinese nationalists) founded the Republic of China. In order to promote a sense of national unity and enhance the efficiency of communications within the nation, the government decided to designate a national language. The Beijing dialect of Mandarin and Guangzhou dialect of Cantonese were each proposed as the basis for a national language for China. In the beginning, there were attempts to introduce elements from other Chinese varieties into the national language in addition to those from the Beijing dialect; this was reflected in the first official dictionary of the national language, given the name 國語 (Pinyin: Guóyǔ, literally \"national language\"). But this artificial language had no native speakers and was difficult to learn, so it was abandoned in 1924. Ultimately, the Beijing dialect was chosen as the national language and it continued to be referred to as 國語 in Chinese in the Republic of China. Since then, the Beijing dialect has become the main standard for pronunciation, due to its prestigious status during the preceding Qing Dynasty.\n\nStill, elements from other dialects do exist in the standard language, which is now defined as reflecting the pronunciation of Beijing, the grammatical patterns of Mandarin dialects spoken in the northern parts of China, and the vocabulary of modern vernacular Chinese literature. The People's Republic of China renamed the national language 普通话 (Pinyin: Pǔtōnghuà, literally \"common speech\"), without otherwise changing the definition of the standard national language.\n\nAmharic is the national language in Ethiopia.\n\nFinland has two national languages: namely the Finnish language and the Swedish language. The Constitution of Finland guarantees the right to use Finnish and Swedish in courts and other state institutions. Despite the large difference in the numbers of users, Swedish is not officially classified as a minority language but equal to Finnish. Both national languages are compulsory subjects in school (except for children with a third language as mother tongue) and a language test is a prerequisite for governmental offices where a university degree is required. The constitution also grants the Sami and the Roma peoples the right to maintain and develop their languages: The Sami have partial right to use Sami languages in official situations according to other laws.\n\nFrench is the official language of France, according to Article 2 of the French Republic's constitution.\n\nThe official and national language of Germany is Standard German, with over 95% of the country speaking Standard German or German dialects as their first language.\n\nHaiti's official languages are Haitian Creole and French. While French is the language used in the media, government and education, 90–95% of the country speak Haitian Creole as the home language while French is learned in school.\n\nThere is as such no national language of India as declared by the Constitution of India. Hindi and English are used for official purposes by the union government and in the parliament. Additionally, 22 official languages are accorded official status as mentioned in article 343/1 of the Indian constitution; all these languages carry equal official status and government documents can be in any of them. States of India are free to adopt one or more local languages for official purposes of that state.\n\nThe official language of Indonesia is Indonesian. Indonesia has more than 700 living languages, making it the second most linguistically diverse country after Papua New Guinea. These 700+ languages, however, are without official status, and some are in danger of extinction. The largest local language is Javanese.\n\nPersian (or Farsi) is recognised as the national language of Iran.\n\nIrish is recognised by the Constitution of Ireland as the national language and first official language of Ireland, and the English language is recognised as a second official language.\n\nHebrew became the only official and national language of Israel with the adoption of the Nation-State Bill in 2018. Arabic, formerly also an official language, became recognized as a language with \"special status\" used in state institutions.\n\nThe Italian language is the de jure and de facto official language of Italy. Italian is also referred to as national language for historical and cultural reasons, because since the 15th century, Italian became the language used in the courts of nearly every state in Italy and in general among educated Italians (scholars, writers, poets, philosophers, scientists, composers and artists) who contributed to what is nowadays the culture of Italy. Furthermore, Italian was often an official language of the various Italian states before unification, slowly replacing Latin, even when ruled by foreign powers (such as the Spaniards in the Kingdom of Naples, or the Austrians in the Kingdom of Lombardy-Venetia).\n\nWhile English and Swahili are official languages, Swahili also has a special status as national language. None of the country's biggest languages (Gikuyu, Luo, Kamba, Kalenjin, etc.) have any explicit legal status on the national level, however the 2010 constitution enjoins the state to \"promote and protect the diversity of language of the people of Kenya.\"\n\nIn Lebanon, the Arabic language is the \"official national\" language. Modern Standard Arabic is used for official purposes, while the everyday spoken language is Lebanese Arabic. French and English are also widespread in Lebanon.\n\nLuxembourg uses three official languages: Luxembourgish, French, and German. Previously Luxembourgish had no official status, but following a constitutional revision a law was passed on February 24, 1984 making Luxembourgish the national language. Furthermore, this law recognised the three languages of Luxembourg (Luxembourgish, French and German) as administrative languages.\n\nThe Maltese language is the national language of Malta. It is also the official language of the island, together with English. Maltese only is recognised as \"national\" in Chapter 1 of the Laws of Malta.\n\nAlthough English is the only nationwide official language in Namibia, there are also 20 \"National languages\", which are each spoken by more or less sizeable portions of the population and are considered Namibia's cultural heritage. All national languages have the rights of a minority language and may even serve as a lingua franca in certain regions. Among Namibia's national languages are German, Afrikaans, Oshiwambo, Otjiherero, Portuguese, as well as the languages of the Himba, Nama, San, Kavango and Damara.\n\nNepali is the official language of Nepal. Over 123 languages are spoken in Nepal. Some of the language spoken in Nepal are Nepal bhasa, Tamang, Sherpa, Rai, Magar, Gurung, Maithili, Purbeli, English, Limbu, Mongolian, etc.\n\nWhile the population of New Zealand is predominantly English-speaking, the language of the indigenous Polynesian people is the Māori language. Both these languages have official status in the country, along with New Zealand Sign Language, which is one of the few sign languages in the world to have such status.\n\nBesides official English (Nigerian Standard English), Nigeria recognizes three 'majority', or national, languages. These are Hausa, Igbo, and Yoruba, each with some 20 million speakers or more.\n\nArticle 251(1) of the 1973 Constitution of Pakistan, titled \"National language\", specifies: \"The National language of Pakistan is Urdu, and arrangements shall be made for its being used for official and other purposes within fifteen years from the commencing day.\" Although Urdu has been declared an official language, so far all government documents, legislation, legal orders, and other official records are written in Pakistani English. Most higher education instruction is in English.\" The National Language Authority is an organization established to make arrangements to promote Urdu since 1979.\n\nThe 1973 Philippine constitution hegemonically imposed Tagalog national language at the expense of all other ethnic nationalities in the country and mandated development and formal adoption of a common national language to be known as Filipino. English (Philippine English) was also designated as an official language, \"until otherwise provided by law\".\n\nThe 1987 constitution designated the Filipino language, which is based on Tagalog with the inclusion of terms from all recognized languages of the Philippines, as the national language. It also designated both Filipino and English as the official languages for purposes of communication and instruction, and designated the regional languages as auxiliary official languages in the regions to serve as auxiliary media of instruction therein.\n\nMore than 170 languages are spoken in the Philippines and almost all of them belong to the Borneo–Philippines languages group of the Austronesian language family. In 2007, a six-part series titled \"The Case of Ilokano as a National Language\" authored by Dr. Aurelio Solver Agcaoili of the University of Hawaii appeared in the Culture, Essays, Lifestyle of Tawid News Magazine. In September 2012, La Union became the first province in Philippine history to pass an ordinance proclaiming a local language and a vernacular, Ilokano, as an official language. This move aims to protect and revitalize the use of Ilokano in various government and civil affairs within the province.\n\nThe Filipino Sign Language is designated as the \"national sign language of the Filipino deaf\" as well as the official sign language for transactions of the Philippine government.\n\nArticle 27 of the Constitution states: \"Polish shall be the official language in the Republic of Poland\".\n\nThe official and national language of Romania is the Romanian language.\n\nThe Russian language is the only official language of Russia, but 27 other languages are considered official in different regions of Russia.\n\nThe Serbian language (a variety of Serbo-Croatian) is the national language of Serbia, written in the Cyrillic script. There are 15 minority languages.\n\nSingapore has four official languages: English (Singapore English), Chinese, Malay and Tamil. Although English is the primary language of business, government, and education, Malay is designated as the national language. This is due to the geographical and historical ties to Malaysia as well as the recognition of ethnic Malays (about 14% of the population) as the indigenous people of Singapore.\n\nTraditionally, the lingua franca among the different ethnic groups in Singapore was Bazaar Malay, a Malay-based creole. Since independence, the government has been promoting English as the main language of Singapore. The bilingual education policy requires students to study two languages: English and a \"mother tongue\" corresponding to the student's ethnicity. Malay is only offered to non-Malay students as an optional third language in secondary schools. As a result, English has displaced Bazaar Malay as the common language among Singaporeans. Therefore, despite the status of Malay as the national language, the majority doesn't speak it.\n\nThe Slovene language is the national language of Slovenia. There are 6 minority languages.\n\nSouth Africa has 11 official languages, namely Afrikaans, English, Ndebele, Northern Sotho, Sotho, Swazi, Tswana, Tsonga, Venda, Xhosa and Zulu. South African Sign Language and Dutch are distinct in South Africa though incompletely emerged national standard languages which also subsumes a cluster of semi-standardised dialects.\n\nSpain has one national constitutional language, Spanish, but there are four other languages that are co-official in some territories: Galician language in Galicia, Basque in Euskadi and part of Navarre, Catalan language in Cataluña, Balearic Islands and Valencia (as Valencian), and Aranese dialect in Val d'Aran.\n\nSwitzerland has four national languages: German, French, Italian and Romansh, all of which have official status at the national level within the Federal administration of Switzerland.\n\nA majority (74%) of the population speaks German, while most of the remainder (21%) speak French, and minorities speak Italian (4%) and Romansh (1%, not monolingually). German speakers are predominant in most of the country, while French speakers occupy the western parts near the border with France, and the Italian speakers are situated to the south near the border with Italy, mostly within the Canton of Ticino. The Romansh speakers are concentrated in the Canton of Grisons in the south-east.\n\nDuring Japanese rule (1895 to 1945), the promoted the Japanese language. After their defeat in the Chinese Civil War in 1949, the Kuomintang regime of the Republic of China retreated to the island of Taiwan, where they introduced Standard Chinese, which was spoken by few of the island population at the time, as the new \"national language\".\n\nIn 2017, the Indigenous languages and Taiwanese Hakka were recognized as national languages.\n\nThe official language of the Tunisian state is Arabic. However, that language is not the mother tongue of the population or used to communicate between Tunisian people, instead Tunisian Arabic plays these roles and is the national language of Tunisia. Also, even without an official status, French is also used extensively in its written and spoken form in the administration, education and business environment and known by 63.6% of the population. Also Berber minorities in the south-west and on Djerba Island use the Tunisian Chelha language to communicate between themselves.\n\nTurkish is the national language of Turkey per the Turkish constitution.\n\nThe English language (British English) is the \"de facto\" official language of the United Kingdom and is the sole language of an estimated 95% of the British population. The three Home Nations outside England have national languages of their own with varying degrees of recognition, which coexist with the dominant English language. Britain also has several Crown dependencies and Overseas Territories which are to some extent self-governing, but which are not recognized as independent states. Many of these have their own regional languages.\n\nIn Northern Ireland, both the Gaelic Irish language and the West Germanic Ulster Scots dialects are recognized by the Good Friday Agreement as \"part of the cultural wealth of the island of Ireland\" and are promoted by the Foras na Gaeilge (Irish Institute) and Tha Boord o Ulstèr-Scotch (the Ulster-Scots Agency) respectively.\n\nIn Scotland, Scottish Gaelic is a minority language spoken by 57,375 people (1.1% of the Scottish population aged over three years old). The Gaelic Language (Scotland) Act 2005 gives the language a limited official status, and the Bòrd na Gàidhlig is tasked with \"securing the status of the Gaelic language as an official language of Scotland commanding equal respect to the English language\". Scots, generally treated as a West Germanic language related to but separate from English, has no official status but is recognized as a minority language, and is the language of much Scottish literature, including the poetry of Robert Burns.\n\nThe Welsh language has official status within Wales, and as of the 2011 census, is spoken by 562,000 people, or 19% of the population. The Welsh Language Board (Bwrdd yr Iaith Gymraeg) is legally tasked with ensuring that, \"in the conduct of public business and the administration of justice, the English and Welsh languages should be treated on a basis of equality\".\n\nEnglish is \"de facto\" the only official language. However a few words of Manx Gaelic (the historical national language) are sometimes encountered in Government institutions, largely for symbolic and ceremonial purposes, and it is the main medium of instruction in one primary school.\n\nThe national language of Uganda is English.\n\nUkrainian is the only official language of Ukraine, but Russian is also widely spoken all over the country especially in the regions to the east of Dnieper.\n\nIn the United States, English (American English) is the national language only in an informal sense, by numbers and by historical and contemporary association. The United States Constitution does not explicitly declare any official language, although the constitution is written in English, as is all federal legislation.\n\n, Representative Peter T. King introduced H.R.997, the \"English Language Unity Act of 2015\", in the United States House of Representatives. This bill would establish English as the official language of the United States. A companion bill, S.678, was introduced by Senator Jim Inhofe in the United States Senate on March 9, 2015. Both bills were referred to committee. Similar legislation has been introduced every year since 1973.\n\nIn Vietnam, the Vietnamese language had been the de facto national language for many years, but it was not until Decree No. 5 of the 2013 constitution that the Vietnamese language was officially described as the National Language.\n\n"}
{"id": "33038270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33038270", "title": "Olimpíada Brasileira de Matemática das Escolas Públicas", "text": "Olimpíada Brasileira de Matemática das Escolas Públicas\n\nThe Brazilian Mathematics Olympiad of Public Schools () (OBMEP) is an annual Mathematics contest created in 2005 by the Brazilian Ministério da Ciência e Tecnologia (MCT) and Ministério da Educação (MEC), in collaboration with Instituto Nacional de Matemática Pura e Aplicada (IMPA) and Sociedade Brasileira de Matemática (SBM), to stimulate the mathematics education in Brazil. It is open to public school students from fifth grade to high school. In 2014 more than 18 million students were enrolled for its first round.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11050654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11050654", "title": "Pharmaconomist", "text": "Pharmaconomist\n\nIn Denmark (including Greenland and Faroe Islands), pharmaconomists () are experts in pharmaceuticals () who have trained with a 3-year tertiary degree. Pharmaconomy () describes either their professional practice or their training courses.\n\nThe majority of the Danish pharmaconomists work at community pharmacies (chemists' shops or drug stores) and at hospital pharmacies and hospitals.\n\nSome pharmaconomists work within the chemical industry, the pharmaceutical industry and in medical or clinical laboratories.\n\nOther pharmaconomists teach pharmacy students and pharmaconomy students at colleges or universities, such as at the University of Copenhagen's Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences or at the Pharmakon—Danish College of Pharmacy Practice.\n\nPharmaconomists are also employed by the Danish Ministry of Interior and Health, Danish Medicines Agency and Danish Association of Pharmacies.\n\nSome pharmaconomists do work as pharmaceutical consultants.\n\nThe 3 year higher education corresponds to 180 ECTS points (European Credit Transfer and Accumulation System).\n\nDuring his or her education programme at Pharmakon—Danish College of Pharmacy Practice, the pharmaconomist student studies human and animal anatomy, physiology, pathology, pharmacology, pharmaconomy, pharmacy practice, pharmaceutics, toxicology, pharmacognosy, clinical pharmacy, pharmacotherapy, pharmaceutical sciences, chemistry, pharmaceutical chemistry, biochemistry, biology, microbiology, molecular biology, genetics, cytology, medicine, veterinary medicine, zoology, diagnosis, medical prescription, pharmacy law, medical sociology, patient safety, health care, psychology, psychiatry, pedagogy, communication, information technology (IT), bioethics, medical ethics, safety, leadership, organization, logistics, economy, quality assurance (QA), sales and marketing.\n\nThere are two different professional groups with pharmaceutical education in Denmark:\nDue to his or her higher education as a health professional, the pharmaconomist has by law the same independent competence in all Danish pharmacies as a pharmacist — i.e. for example to dispense and check medical prescriptions, to counsel and advise patients/customers about the use of medicine/pharmaceuticals and to dispense, sell and provide information about medical prescriptions and about prescription medicine and over-the-counter medicine (OTC).\n\nThe pharmaconomist also undertakes specialist and managerial operation of pharmacies and undertakes managerial duty service.\n\nThe only difference by law is that only a pharmacist may \"own\" a Danish pharmacy — i.e. become a pharmacy owner.\n\nLike pharmacists, pharmaconomists can work as pharmacy managers and HR managers (or as chief pharmaconomists).\n\nThe Danish Association of Pharmaconomists is a trade union who represents about 5,700 pharmaconomists in Denmark (i.e. 98% of all Danish pharmaconomists).\nThe Danish title \"farmakonom\" (pharmaconomist) comes from the Greek \"pharmakon\" (meaning \"pharmaceuticals\") and \"nom\" (meaning \"expert in\").\n\nIn Denmark a pharmaconomist is also referred to as \"lægemiddelkyndig\" (expert in pharmaceuticals). \"Lægemiddelkyndig\" comes from the Danish \"lægemiddel\" (meaning \"pharmaceuticals\") and \"kyndig\" (meaning \"expert in\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "295144", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=295144", "title": "Preppy", "text": "Preppy\n\nPreppy (also spelled preppie) or prep (all abbreviations of the word \"preparatory\") refers to a subculture in the United States associated with old private Northeastern university-preparatory schools. The terms are used to denote a person seen as characteristic of a student or alumnus of these schools. Characteristics of preps in the past include a particular subcultural speech, vocabulary, dress, mannerisms, etiquette, reflective of an upper-class upbringing.\n\nThe term \"preppy\" derives from the private, university-preparatory or \"prep\" schools that some American upper class and upper-middle-class children attend. The term \"preppy\" is commonly associated with the Ivy League and oldest universities in the Northeast and the prep schools which fed students to them, since traditionally a primary goal in attending a prep school was admittance into one of these institutions. Preppy fashion derives from the fashions of these old Northeastern colleges in the early to mid-twentieth century. Lisa Birnbach's 1980 book \"Official Preppy Handbook\", which was written to poke fun at the rich lives of privileged Ivy League and socially elite liberal arts college students but ended up glamorizing the culture, portrays the preppy social group as well-educated, well-connected, and although exclusive, courteous to other social groups without fostering serious relationships with them. Being well-educated and well-connected is associated with an upper-class socioeconomic status that emphasizes higher education and high-income professional success.\n\nFor men, preppy fashion has its roots in the Ivy League style of dress, which started around 1912 and became more established in the late 1950s. J. Press represented the quintessential Ivy League style, stemming from the collegiate traditions of Ivy League schools. In the mid-twentieth century J. Press and Brooks Brothers both had stores on Ivy League school campuses, including Harvard, Princeton, and Yale. Preppy fashion emerged in the late 1970s with cues from the original Ivy League style. Some typical preppy styles also reflect traditional upper-class leisure activities, once associated with the wealthy English who once had a strong political and social position in the Northeast and New England, such as polo, sailing, hunting, fencing, crew rowing, lacrosse, golf, tennis, rugby, squash and swimming. This association with old English inspired outdoor activities can be seen in preppy fashion, through stripes and colors, equestrian clothing, plaid shirts, field jackets, and nautical-themed accessories. By the 1980s, mass marketing of brands such as Lacoste, Daniel Cremieux, Izod, and Dooney & Bourke became associated with preppy style in many areas of the US and Canada.\n\nFor women, preppy-influenced fashions emerged in the 1960s, a trend led by designers such as Perry Ellis and Lilly Pulitzer, influenced by designers such as Oleg Cassini, and popularized by female students at the Seven Sisters Colleges, sister institutions to the Ivy League. These classic ensembles of the 1960s and 1970s include tailored skirt suits, low heels, wrap dresses, shift dresses, silk or cotton blouses, and jewelry with a refined style. Such clothing often includes elements drawn from typical preppy style, such as nautical stripes, pastel colours, or equestrian details.\n\nThough traditional interest in preppy style fell in the 1990s, some of the newer outfitters such as Ralph Lauren, J. Crew, Vineyard Vines, Gant, and Elizabeth McKay are perceived as having preppy styles, with designers such as Marc Jacobs and Luella Bartley adding the preppy style into their clothes in the 1990s.\n\nExamples of preppy attire include argyle sweaters, crewneck sweaters, grosgrain or woven leather belts, chinos, madras, Nantucket Reds, button down Oxford cloth shirts, pearl necklaces and earrings, gold bangle or large chain bracelets, penny loafers, polo shirts (often with a popped collar), and boat shoes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41815924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41815924", "title": "Rashtriya Madhyamik Shiksha Abhiyan", "text": "Rashtriya Madhyamik Shiksha Abhiyan\n\nRashtriya Madhyamik Shiksha Abhiyan (RMSA) (translation: National \n\n\"Mission for Secondary Education\") is a centrally sponsored scheme of the Ministry of Human Resource Development, Government of India, for the development of secondary education in public schools throughout India. It was launched in March 2009. The implementation of the scheme has started from 2009-2010 to provide conditions for an efficient growth, development and equity for all. The scheme includes a multidimensional research, technical consulting, various implementations and funding support. The principal objectives are to enhance quality of secondary education and increase the total enrollment rate from 52% (as of 2005–2006) to 75% in five years, i.e. from 2009–2014. It aims to provide universal education for all children between 15–16 years of age. The funding from the central ministry is provided through state governments, which establish separate implementing agencies. The total budget allocated during the XI Five Year Plan (2002-2007) was .\n\nThe objectives of Rashtriya Madhyamik Shiksha Abhiyan can be summarised as follows:\n\n\n\n\n\nIn school, there was promotion of the science laboratories, environmental education, promotion of yoga, as well as centrally sponsored schemes of population education project, international mathematics and science olympiads. The state governments provide in-service training for the teachers and provide infrastructure and research inputs.\nICT comprises the centrally sponsored schemes like computer education and literacy in schools (CLASS) and educational technology (ET) which familiarizes the student with Information technology (IT). Due to the rise in IT demand in today's world, a major importance is given on it. Components of a merged scheme ICT in school include a) funding support towards computer education plans; b) strengthening and reorientation of the staffs of SIETS - state institutes of education and training; c) there is digitalisation of SIETs audio and video cassettes with the partnership of NGOs; and d) management of internet-based education by SIETs.\nRMSA not only emphasizes on providing secondary education for the special focus groups that include scheduled tribe and scheduled caste groups, minority girls and CWSN children, but it also give importance on removing the existing disparities in socio-economic and gender background in the secondary level of education. They are termed as the vulnerable/ disadvantaged group. Certain strategies were implemented to provide free access towards secondary education and they are given as following steps:\nInclusive education have been highlighted to bring about expansion in terms of meeting/catering to the needs of the mentally and physically disadvantaged children. This schemes continues to be a separate centrally sponsored scheme. It includes several components for convergence with integrated child development services for early interventions, Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan (SSA) for the particular group at the elementary level, and special schools.\n\nThe Ministry of Human Resource Development directly provides funds to the state governments. Each state government then release the funds to the approved implementing agencies or institutions. During the XI Five Year Plan the central government provided 75% of the total fund for each state, while 25% was borne by the state as matching share. However, in the remote northeastern states and Sikkim the matching share was waived to 10%.\n\nAchievements of RMSA listed in its 2015-2016 report include:\n\nThere is a rise in demand for secondary education, but, despite an increase in the number of schools, their geographic distribution is uneven. The gender gap has narrowed. In the Tenth Plan the focus is on quality education at all levels.\n\nIn 2018, Rashtriya Madhyamik Shiksha Abhiyan along with Sarva Shiksha Abhiyan was disintegrated to form Samagra Shiksha Abhiyan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1099570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1099570", "title": "Regeneron Science Talent Search", "text": "Regeneron Science Talent Search\n\nThe Regeneron Science Talent Search, known for its first 57 years as the Westinghouse Science Talent Search, and then as the Intel Science Talent Search (Intel STS) from 1998 through 2016, is a research-based science competition in the United States for high school seniors. It has been referred to as \"the nation's oldest and most prestigious\" science competition. In his speech at the dinner honoring the 1991 Winners, President George H. W. Bush called the competition the \"Super Bowl of science.\" \n\nThe Society for Science & the Public began the competition in 1942 with Westinghouse Electric Corporation; for many years, the competition was known as the Westinghouse Science Talent Search. In 1998, Intel became the sponsor after it outbid several other companies. In May 2016, it was announced that Regeneron would be the new title sponsor. Over the years, some 147,000 students have entered the competition. Over 22,000 have been named semifinalists and 2,920 have traveled to Washington, D.C., as contest finalists. Collectively, they have received millions of dollars in scholarships and gone on, in later years, to capture Nobel Prizes, Fields Medals, MacArthur Fellowships and numerous other accolades.\n\nThirteen went on to receive Nobel Prizes, two earned the Fields Medal, eleven have been awarded the National Medal of Science, eighteen received MacArthur Fellowships; three have won the Albert Lasker Award for Basic Medical Research; five have won a Breakthrough Prize; 43 have been elected to the National Academy of Sciences; and eleven have been elected to the National Academy of Engineering.\n\nEntrants to the competition conduct original research—sometimes at home and sometimes by \"working with leading research teams at universities, hospitals and private laboratories.\" The selection process is highly competitive, and besides the research paper, letters of recommendation, essays, test scores, extracurricular activities, and high school transcripts may be factored in the selection of finalists and winners.\n\nEach year, approximately 1,800 papers are submitted. The top 300 applicants are announced in mid-January and since 2017 each semifinalist and their school receives $2,000 from the title sponsor. In late January, the 40 Finalists (the award winners) are informed. In March, the Finalists are flown to Washington, D.C. where they are interviewed for the top ten spots, which have awards up to $250,000 The judges have included Glenn T. Seaborg (Nobel Laureate with Edwin M. McMillan in Chemistry, 1951) and Joseph Hooton Taylor, Jr. (Nobel Laureate in Physics, 1993). All Finalists receive awards of at least $25,000.\n\nSince the beginning of the competition, students from New York have done very well in the Science Talent Search, although there have been finalists from all 50 states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and Guam. Certain high schools have been particularly successful at placing semifinalists and finalists in the Science Talent Search.\n\nNew York has had by far the most finalists in the competition, followed by California, Illinois, Pennsylvania, New Jersey, Maryland, Florida, Virginia, Massachusetts, Texas, and Ohio. \n\nReliable online records of the high schools attended by semifinalists and finalists are only available since 1999, when Intel took over sponsorship of the Science Talent Search, although there are newspaper articles naming the finalists from earlier years. A small group of schools have produced a large number of the recent semifinalists and finalists. \n\nFour specialized STEM schools top the list, averaging more than 8 semifinalists per year: Montgomery Blair High School in Silver Spring, MD, Stuyvesant High School in New York, NY, Thomas Jefferson High School for Science and Technology in Alexandria, VA, and Bronx High School of Science in Bronx, NY. Many winners also come from the Texas Academy of Mathematics and Science in Denton, TX, the North Carolina School of Science and Mathematics in Durham, NC, the Bergen County Academies in Hackensack, NJ, and the Illinois Math and Science Academy in Aurora, IL. Among high schools without selective admissions, New York public schools top the list, with Ward Melville High School in East Sautuket, Byram Hills High School in Armonk, Paul D. Schreiber High School in Port Washington, and Jericho High School among the top ten. Only one private school, The Harker School in San Jose, CA, is among the top schools.\n\n"}
{"id": "33416103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33416103", "title": "Richard Corfield (scientist)", "text": "Richard Corfield (scientist)\n\nRichard Corfield (born 22 January 1962) is a scientist, science writer and broadcaster based near Oxford in the United Kingdom.\n\nHe attended William Ellis School, for the first six years a boys' grammar school.\n\nHe received his BSc in Zoology in 1983 from Bristol University and his PhD in Biogeochemistry in 1987 from Cambridge University where he worked with Professor Sir Nicholas Shackleton FRS on the greenhouse effect during the Paleocene Epoch.\n\nHe is the managing director of the Science and Media consultancy Hanborough Consultants. He has written three books: \"Architects of Eternity: The New Science of Fossils\", \"The Silent Landscape: In the Wake of HMS Challenger\" and \"Lives of the Planets; A Natural History of the Solar System\".\n\nAs well as contributing to magazines, on-line publications and newspapers such as \"Physics World\", \"Chemistry World\", Astrobiology.net, Space.com, and \"The Washington Post\" he also wrote and appeared in the Newton Channel/Guardian documentary An Interview with Craig Venter.\n\nHe is also a regular contributor on radio, particularly to \"In Our Time\" with Melvyn Bragg, \"The Material World\" and \"The Report\".\n\nHe lives in Long Hanborough, on the A4095, west of Oxford. He married Julie Cartlidge, with two daughters born in 1994 and 2000.\n"}
{"id": "1103861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1103861", "title": "Semester at Sea", "text": "Semester at Sea\n\nSemester at Sea (SAS) is a study–abroad program founded in 1963, now managed by the Institute for Shipboard Education in Fort Collins, Colorado, USA. Colorado State University is the current academic sponsor for the program while the program itself is run on a cruise ship. Throughout the history of the program, nearly 63,000 undergraduate students from more than 1,500 colleges and universities have participated in Semester at Sea.\n\nDuring the spring and fall semesters, the approximately 100- 110 day program circumnavigates the globe, with up to 600 undergraduates traveling from North America heading either east across the Atlantic or west across the Pacific, visiting from 10 to 11 countries in Asia, Africa, Europe, South America and North America. The program previously had voyages that would sail through the Mediterranean and the Suez Canal, but due to piracy concerns in the Gulf of Aden, voyages now typically travel around Africa.\n\nFor many years, ISE hosted a shorter 65-day Semester at Sea program in the summer that concentrated on one general region of the world. In May 2011, Semester at Sea introduced a new short-term or Maymester voyage with a curriculum focused on the UN Millennium Development Goals. These voyages lasted 26 days and offered students the opportunity to earn 4–5 transferable credits. However, following the Maymester 2012 voyage, Semester at Sea made the decision to cancel Short-Term voyages indefinitely due to low enrollment. Additionally, a two-week \"Enrichment Voyage\" program was previously held for continuing education participants during December and January. Itineraries for these voyages focused on Central America and South America, often transiting the Panama Canal or traveling up the Amazon River. ISE currently offers only fall and spring voyages.\n\nStudents attend classes while the ship is at sea in a variety of subjects and disciplines. These classes are typically humanities classes connecting with one or more of the countries on the itinerary. All students are required to take an interdisciplinary core course called Global Studies. When the ship is in a port, no classes are held. Students are then able to travel on Semester at Sea-sponsored trips or independently within the country. However, travel outside the country of port is strictly prohibited, resulting in dismissal from the program.\n\nAlthough Colorado State University is the academic sponsor for the program, Semester at Sea is open to students from any university. Faculty members are drawn from colleges and universities throughout the United States and around the world, including Harvard University, Stanford University, University of Pennsylvania, Brown University, Georgetown University, George Washington University, Boston University, Bucknell University, Emerson College, Yale University, University of Pittsburgh, California Lutheran University, Chapman University, Bentley University, Pennsylvania State University, Duke University, University of St. Thomas (Minnesota), Cornell University, Jacksonville University, University of Arizona, University of Michigan, National University of Singapore, University of Virginia, University of Colorado, University of Maine, University of San Diego, University of Southern California, University of Connecticut, New York University and Columbia University.\n\nPrior to arriving at a port, students receive a pre-port briefing regarding the culture and societal rules of the country they are visiting. Upon arriving at the port of call, special guest speakers, ranging from community leaders from the country to American ambassadors, give lectures to the students and faculty. The pre-port briefing as well as the guest lecture prepare students for their time in the country.\n\n\nIn May 2015, a lease was announced for the ship previously known as the , to be renovated, reflagged, and renamed the , operated by V-Ships.\n\nSemester at Sea has used a number of ships as its floating campus, including the MS \"Seven Seas\" (formerly the USS \"Long Island\"), the SS \"Ryndam\" (not the later freighter of that name), the SS \"Universe\" (formerly the SS Atlantic), the , and the . One ship SAS intended to use, the S.S. \"Seawise University\" (formerly the RMS \"Queen Elizabeth\"), burned and sank in Hong Kong Harbour during her conversion into a floating campus in 1972, and consequently was never used for students. The \"Universe Explorer\", retired in 2005, had a structure of four main decks with a small swimming pool in the stern of the ship. The \"Seawise University\", \"Universe\", and \"Universe Explorer\" were supplied and managed by Tung Chao Yung's Seawise Foundation. Concerns about the split between the Institute for Shipboard Education and the Seawise Foundation as well as the safety of the MV \"Explorer\" contributed to the University of Pittsburgh severing ties with the program in 2005.\n\nSemester at Sea was originally named \"University of the Seven Seas\" and later \"World Campus Afloat\" before gaining its present name in 1977. On June 1, 2016 Colorado State University located in Fort Collins, CO became the new academic partner for Semester at Sea. Previous sponsors include the University of Virginia (2006–2016), University of Pittsburgh (1981–2006), the University of Colorado (1977–1980), and Chapman University (1965–1975).\n\nWorld figures such as Nelson Mandela, Mother Teresa, Desmond Tutu, and Fidel Castro have all met with the program's participants at various times during its history. In 1999, the program's fame was boosted greatly when it was featured on of MTV's reality television show \"Road Rules\".\n\nThe itinerary of ports changes each semester, typically voyaging to 10-11 ports around the world.\n\nIn the early 90s a spring itinerary included: Nassau/Bahamas, Caracas/Venezuela, Salvador/Brazil, Capetown/South Africa, Mombasa/Kenya, Madras (Chennai)/India, Singapore, Penang/Malaysia, Shanghai/China, Osaka/Japan and Hong Kong.\nThe ship docked in Denmark during summer 2008, in Namibia during the autumn of 2008, Bulgaria during the summer of 2009, Ghana during the autumn of 2009, and Senegal during the autumn of 2015, the first times in the history of the program that Semester at Sea had visited these countries.\n\nWhen the ship passes the equator, the students, faculty and crew of the vessel celebrate Neptune Day a maritime line-crossing ceremony. Students are transformed from \"polywogs\" to \"shellbacks\" in an initiation ceremony, involving slime-smearing, fish-kissing, and (optional) head-shaving. Neptune Day is one of several holidays celebrated during the voyage.\n\nStudents aboard the ship are divided into \"seas\" (occasionally including: Adriatic, Aegean, Baltic, Bering, Caribbean, Mediterranean, Red, Yellow, the Persian Gulf and three seas for the Lifelong Learners, faculty and children of faculty). The student seas are generally determined by their deck. The seas compete in an all-day Olympic challenge. Opening ceremonies are held in the morning, and no classes are held during the Olympics. Events may include synchronized swimming, pull-ups, dodgeball, trivia, a lip-sync routine and a ship-wide relay. The winning sea gets bragging rights for the rest of the semester and a grand prize, which is usually being the first to disembark from the ship in its final port of call, and a celebration in the faculty/staff only lounge.\n\n\nThe Spring 1994 (SS \"Universe\") voyage ended at Hong Kong because the ship was scheduled for dry-dock maintenance after the voyage. However, the ship was unable to consistently meet its sailing schedule during the semester due to persistent mechanical difficulties. The ship made several unscheduled stops, and had to anchor between ports while repairs were accomplished. It was decided to tow the ship to the South China Sea and anchor overnight. Captain Chang had all crew members patrolling the deck 3-5 feet apart with flashlights throughout the night to notify of any pirate boarding attempts. The planned stop at Manila, Philippines was cancelled and the SS \"Universe\" rerouted to Singapore. Exams completed at anchor in the harbor, then the students and faculty flew to the next two planned ports of Osaka, Japan and Shanghai, China. The \"Universe\" met the students in Shanghai and completed the final leg of the voyage to Hong Kong.\n\nTraveling in foreign countries poses risks for all travelers and a few incidents of non-shipboard fatalities have occurred to participants of Semester at Sea. One student died in a hiking accident on a 1993 voyage, and on SAS Spring 1996, five students were killed in a bus crash during a field trip in India.\n\nThe Fall 1997 voyage was re-routed due to terrorism concerns. On November 12, 1997, Ramzi Yousef was convicted of masterminding the 1993 World Trade Center bombing. Consequently, the U.S. State Department issued a travel warning for Americans in the Middle East. On November 17, 1997, while the ship was docked in Port Said, Egypt, and the students were in country, the Luxor massacre occurred. Although no students were involved, fears of further terrorism resulted in the next two ports, Israel and Turkey, being skipped and the ship re-routed to Cyprus and Spain.\n\nThe Fall 2000 semester on the S.S. \"Universe Explorer\" had 2 incidents. When entering Vietnam, the ship was hit by a barge causing damage to the hull along the side of the ship and closing student rooms. No one was injured by this incident. The S.S. \"Universe Explorer\" had to remain an extra day in Vietnam to be patched, but continued on the journey with all passengers after that. Then while getting ready to go north through the Suez Canal to Egypt, Turkey, Croatia and Spain, the ship decided to reroute due to threats in that area against all ships in the Suez. Instead of those four countries, the Fall 2000 voyage stopped in Kenya, South Africa and Brazil.\n\nOn the Fall 2001 semester following the events of September 11, the S.S. \"Universe Explorer\" was redirected after its stop in Kobe, Japan. The planned route from Penang, Malaysia into the Indian Ocean then up through the Suez Canal to ports including Egypt and Croatia was changed by the State Department of the United States. The ship's route for the semester was then pushed south to include Singapore, Seychelles and Cape Town, South Africa. The ship's communication with other vessels in the Indian Ocean was limited due to the amount of American citizens on board and their security around the Indian Ocean area close to the Middle Eastern part of the globe.\n\nOn January 26, 2005, the MV \"Explorer\" weathered a combination of three storms in the north Pacific, and a wave smashed the windows of the bridge, breaking one of them, and briefly affecting the navigation systems. After receiving a distress call from the vessel, the US Coast Guard dispatched a Lockheed HC-130 search and rescue plane (which shot footage of the vessel in the storm) and two cutters. There were no casualties, but two crew members were injured. That footage is from the sistership, the Grand Voyager, on 2/14/2005 in Cyclone Valentina. The Grand Voyager is now called the Chinese Taishan. While the vessel underwent repairs in Honolulu, Hawaii, Semester at Sea students were flown to Hong Kong to continue their courses. The MV \"Explorer\" rejoined the students in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam, and continued on to circumnavigate the globe and complete the semester without further incident. The ordeal is documented in an episode of the Weather Channel television series \"Full Force Nature\", complete with home video taken by the students during the storm. Later that year, safety concerns were among the reasons cited by the University of Pittsburgh for ending its 24-year academic sponsorship of the program.\n\nThe Summer 2005 voyage was rerouted from London to Le Havre, France due to safety concerns after the London bombings on July 7.\n\nDuring the Fall 2006 voyage, Typhoon Shanshan caused the MV \"Explorer\", en route from Japan to Qingdao, China, to be re-routed to Hong Kong.\n\nDuring the Fall 2008 voyage, student Kurt Leswing was hit and killed by a drunk driver in Hong Kong.\n\nFor the Spring and Fall 2009 voyages, the itinerary had to be changed in order to avoid the possibility of Somali pirates in the Gulf of Aden.\n\nDuring the Fall 2010 voyage, student Andre Ramadan died while docked in Ho Chi Minh City, Vietnam.\n\nDuring Spring 2011, the itinerary was changed following the tsunami that hit Japan. Instead, the MV \"Explorer\" docked in Taiwan.\n\nIn Fall 2012, Casey Schulman died from a boating accident while she and other students were swimming in the island nation of Dominica.\n\nThe Fall 2014 Voyage was rerouted from Senegal and Ghana to Italy and Spain due to CDC and State Department warnings about the Ebola Outbreak in Western Africa and future voyages have been rescheduled as well.\n\nThe Fall 2015 voyage on the MS World Odyssey was rerouted last minute from Turkey to Croatia to avoid terrorism and the refugee crisis.\n\nThe Spring 2017 Voyage was rerouted from Mauritius at the request of the vessel owner. The ship went directly from India to South Africa.\n\nOn November 7th 2017, at approximately 1600 local time in Myanmar, Kassandra (Kassie) Braun from St. Edward’s University fell 20 feet from a pagoda, sustaining fatal injuries. She was a 20-year-old student on independent travel in Bagan while participating in Semester at Sea's Fall 2017 Voyage. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "34236881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34236881", "title": "Snap! (programming language)", "text": "Snap! (programming language)\n\nSnap! is a free, blocks- and browser-based educational graphical programming language that allows students to create interactive animations, games, stories, and more, while learning about mathematical and computational ideas. Snap! was inspired by Scratch, but also targets both novice and more advanced students by including and expanding Scratch's features.\n\nSince version 4.0, it is entirely browser-based, with no software that needs to be installed on the local device, much like Scratch.\n\nReference Manual for Snap! is available for download by clicking on the Snap! logo (in the top-left corner of the screen). Screen is organized in three resizable columns containing five regions, which include the blocks palette of different categories (in the left column), the scripts area with all scripts belonging to a selected sprite, and the stage area (in the third column) with sprites thumbnails (also called sprite corral) below it.\n\nIn the interactively resizable stage area (full-screen is available, too) are drawn the graphical results (i.e. animations, turtle graphics etc) of the scripts running in the script area, and/or interactively double-clicked individual blocks in any palette. Individual blocks can be dragged from the palette onto the scripts area to be associated with the selected sprite. \nCategories of blocks include the Motion, Looks, Sound, Pen, Control, Sensing, Operators, and Variables groups as shown in the table below. \n\nBesides the Script tab, there are two other tabs, the Costumes tab and the Sounds tab. An expandable bar at the right is Help area.\n\nThe most important features that Snap! offers, but Scratch does not, include:\n\n\nThe web-based Snap! and older desktop-based BYOB have been both developed by Jens Mönig for Windows, OS X and Linux with design ideas and documentation provided by Brian Harvey from University of California, Berkeley and have been used to teach \"The Beauty and Joy of Computing\" introductory course in computer science (CS) for non-CS-major students. \n\nThe source code of Snap! is Affero General Public License (AGPL) licensed and is available on Github and can be downloaded within Snap! itself. The earlier, desktop-based 3.x version's open-source code is available under a license that allows modifying for non-commercial uses and can be downloaded from the UC Berkeley website or CNET's Download.com and TechTracker download page. \n\nSnap! is implemented in JavaScript using an HTML5 Canvas application programming interface (API), and because of that it runs on the major web-browsers on Windows, iOS, OS X and Linux devices. \n\nSnap! has been recognized by the Logo Foundation, and reviewed in an online magazine for programmers. As of December 2014, 100 New York City (NYC) high schools will introduce University of California at Berkeley’s “Beauty and Joy of Computing” as a new AP Computer Science Principles course in 2015, using Snap!.\n\n"}
{"id": "32015767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32015767", "title": "Society of German Chemists", "text": "Society of German Chemists\n\nThe Society of German Chemists (German: \"\", GDCh) is a learned society and professional association founded in 1949 to represent the interests of German chemists in local, national and international contexts. GDCh \"unites those people associated with the chemical and molecular sciences and supports them in their responsible and sustainable endeavors for the good of the public and of our environment.\"\n\nThe earliest precursor of today's GDCh was the German Chemical Society (\"\", DChG). Adolf von Baeyer was prominent among the German chemists who established DChG in 1867; and August Wilhelm von Hofmann was the first president. This society was modeled after the British Chemical Society, which was the precursor of the Royal Society of Chemistry. Like its British counterpart, DChG sought to foster the communication of new ideas and facts throughout Germany and across international borders.\n\nIn 1946, the current organization was created by a merger of the German Chemical Society (DChG) and the Association of German Chemists (\"\", VDCh).\n\nHonorary Members of the GDCh have included Otto Hahn, Robert B. Woodward, Jean-Marie Lehn, George Olah and other eminent scientists.\n\nScientific publications of the society include \",\" \"Angewandte Chemie,\" \",\" \"European Journal of Inorganic Chemistry,\" \"European Journal of Organic Chemistry,\" \"ChemPhysChem,\" \"ChemSusChem,\" \"ChemBioChem,\" \"ChemMedChem,\" \"ChemCatChem,\" \"ChemistryViews,\" \"Chemie Ingenieur Technik\" and \"Chemie in unserer Zeit.\"\n\nIn the 21st century, the society has become a member of ChemPubSoc Europe, which is an organization of 16 European chemical societies. This European consortium was established in the late 1990s as many chemical journals owned by national chemical societies were amalgamated.\n\nThe society acknowledges individual achievement with prizes and awards, including medals originally conferred by the predecessor organizations DChG and VDCh:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30484785", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30484785", "title": "Stanford US–Russia Forum", "text": "Stanford US–Russia Forum\n\nThe Stanford US–Russia Forum (SURF) is an organization dedicated to bringing students at leading Russian and American universities together for research in public policy, business, economics and many other disciplines. The program begins with a fall conference in Russia, followed by six months of work on collaborative research projects and a capstone conference in the spring at Stanford University. Currently in its tenth year, more than 400 undergraduate, graduate, and professional school students from Russia and the U.S. have participated in the program.\n\nSURF was founded in the fall of 2008 by four students from Stanford University and Moscow State University who wanted to maintain dialogue on U.S.-Russia cooperation despite the deterioration in relations caused by the Russo-Georgian war. \n\nSURF’s first public event was a one-day conference in November 2008 at Moscow State University focused on the most pressing problems in US-Russian relations. The conference attracted widespread student interest and was attended by delegates from MSU, MGIMO, the Higher School of Economics, the Academy of National Economy, as well as students from Stanford University, Yale University and University of Pennsylvania.\n\nIn the fall of 2009, the organization launched the SURF Exchange Program, a six-month program for twenty American and twenty Russian students, selected on a competitive basis. During the fall, the SURF delegates participated in a series of virtual seminars with guest lecturers including Dmitri Trenin (Director, Carnegie Moscow Center) and Donald Kennedy (Editor, Science). In the winter, the delegates continued to meet virtually in small groups that researched and produced Collaborative Research Projects (CRP). The program concluded with a week-long capstone conference at Stanford University in April 2010. The capstone conference brought together organizers, participants and sponsors of SURF, as well as a number of special guests. Speakers included the 66th U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice, Assistant to the President of the Russian Federation Arkady Dvorkovich, and Former Adviser to US President Bill Clinton for Russia and Ukraine Coit Blacker. Following the conference, the CRP results were published in the SURF Journal. The first SURF Exchange Program was formally recognized for its work fostering civil society ties between the US and Russia by Russian Minister for Foreign Affairs Sergei Lavrov.\n\nSince 2010, the SURF Exchange Program has consisted of two major components: conferences and Collaborative Research Projects (CRP). The program opens each fall with a week-long conference in Moscow where delegates meet with experts in academia, business, and policy to learn about current issues in U.S.-Russia relations. The 20 American and 20 Russian delegates also meet in person for the first time and finalize their research questions for their four-person research teams. \n\nThe collaborative research component lasts for six months. Research topics have included cyber-security, public health, nuclear and energy issues, news and the media, space cooperation, entrepreneurship and business, cooperation in the Arctic, the environment, and a number of others. In some cases, groups are paired with sponsoring institutions that submit problems or question for the group to research, to ensure that each CRP group produced work relevant to the real world. Sponsoring institutions have included the Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, the Russian Ministry of Energy, Stanford Institute for Economic Policy Research, Renova Group, Draper Fisher Jurvetson and The Boeing Company. \n\nIn the spring, the students meet at Stanford University for a capstone conference to present their research to policy-makers and other experts. Talks are also held with notable experts from a wide range of fields to deepen participants’ knowledge of U.S.-Russia relations.\nSURF is housed at the Freeman Spogli Institute for International Studies (FSI) at Stanford University and it is also supported by its founding partner universities, Moscow State University, Moscow State Institute of International Relations (University) of the MFA of Russia (MGIMO), the Higher School of Economics (NRU-HSE), and the Academy of National Economy.\n\nMore than 40 students from over 40 Russian, American and international universities have participated in SURF since the program’s inception. The program accepts undergraduate, graduate and professional school students from all disciplines, and no previous exposure to Russia is required. Instead, the program prioritizes intellectual curiosity, leadership and impact potential, and research skills. Selection for participation in the program is very competitive; the overall acceptance rate for the 2014-2015 program was 7.5%. \n\nCoit Blacker, former Special Assistant to the President of the United States for National Security Affairs and Senior Director for Russian, Ukrainian and Eurasian Affairs at the National Security Council \n\nSteven Chu, former U.S. Secretary of Energy\n\nArkady Dvorkovich, Deputy Prime Minister of Russia\n\nSiegfried Hecker, former Director of Los Alamos Labs\n\nVladimir Mau, Rector of Russian Academy of National Economy and Public Administration (RANEPA)\nMichael McFaul, former U.S. Ambassador to Russia, former Special Assistant to the President and Senior Director of Russian and Eurasian Affairs.\n\nWilliam Perry, former U.S. Secretary of Defense\n\nSergey Petrov, Russian Consul General in San Francisco\n\nCondoleezza Rice, former U.S. Secretary of State \n\nGeorge Schultz, former U.S. Secretary of State\n\nDmitri Trenin, Director of Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Moscow Center\n\nAmerican University\n\nBoston College\n\nBowdoin College\n\nBrandeis University\n\nColumbia University\n\nCornell University\n\nGeorge Washington University\n\nGeorgia Institute of Technology\n\nHarvard University\n\nMiddlebury College\n\nNew York University Stern School of Business\n\nNorthwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine\n\nPrinceton University\n\nRice University\n\nStanford University\n\nSwarthmore College\n\nUniversity of California, Berkeley\n\nUniversity of California, Davis\n\nUniversity of California, Los Angeles\n\nUniversity of Chicago\n\nUniversity of Kansas\n\nUniversity of Minnesota\n\nUniversity of Pennsylvania\n\nUniversity of Rochester\n\nWellesley College\n\nYale University\n\nFar Eastern Federal University\n\nInstitute for US and Canadian Studies (ISKRAN)\n\nKazan Federal University\n\nMoscow School of Management SKOLKOVO\n\nMoscow State University\n\nMoscow State Institute of International Relations (MGIMO)\n\nNational Research University Higher School of Economics\n\nNew Economic School\n\nNorth-Eastern Federal University (Yakutsk)\n\nPlekhanov Russian University of Economics\n\nRussian Presidential Academy of National Economy and Public Administration (RANEPA)\n\nSaint Petersburg State University\n\nSamara State University\n\nSkolkovo Institute of Science and Technology\n\nSouthern Federal University\n\nAmerican University of Afghanistan\n\nBocconi University\n\nCambridge University\n\nLondon Business School\n\nUniversity of Passau\n\n"}
{"id": "28279542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28279542", "title": "Sub-caliber training", "text": "Sub-caliber training\n\nSub-caliber training is used to save wear and expense when training with a larger gun by use of smaller weapons with identical ballistic characteristics. The smaller weapons could be inserted into the larger weapon's barrel, externally attached to the barrel or mounted above the weapon. Examples include the M303 Sub-Caliber insert for the M120 mortar that allows the mortar to use ammunition or the M49A1 sub-caliber device, which used 7.62×51mm NATO rifle rounds in the M67 recoilless rifle. These devices/weapons have been used for guns as large as the main guns of battleships.\n\n"}
{"id": "11603701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11603701", "title": "Talking tactile tablet", "text": "Talking tactile tablet\n\nA talking tactile tablet or T3 is a graphic tablet with a touch surface that can be used as an input device that uses swell paper to create 3D overlays and connects audio files to parts of the overlays. The device is connected to a computer and run with a programme CD, and has a tactile surface which produces touchable icons that provide audio feedback when they are pressed. It can be used to help visually impaired users to interpret diagrams, charts and maps by producing a tactile, touchable image, and audio feedback.\n\nThe T3 was developed at the United Kingdom's Royal National College for the Blind in Hereford in conjunction with a software company based in the United States. The device was originally developed for educational purposes but is adaptable for other uses. In 2005, Hereford Museum and Art Gallery became the first in the United Kingdom to invest in the technology. The T3 was later sold on the international marketplace with the help of the UK Trade & Investment's passport initiative – a scheme which gives new exporters the training, planning and support they need to succeed in overseas markets.\n"}
{"id": "39934774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39934774", "title": "Time To Know", "text": "Time To Know\n\nTime To Know is an Israeli education technology program, that started as a philanthropic project in Israel in 2005, by Shmuel Meitar and Morris Kahn from the Aurec Group, who were the founders of Amdocs, a software company that specializes in customer care and billing systems for the telecom industry. \"Time To Know\" enhances student learning by providing engaging and adaptive content focused on exploration, inquiry-based learning, collaborative class discussions, multimedia activities, and games.\n\nOriginally, it was strictly a philanthropic endeavor. Meitar had spent a decade helping underprivileged students particularly in rural Israel advance their education through scholarships and college readiness services. The platform was first piloted in Israel in 2007, where it continues to be a philanthropic effort. In 2008, Meitar recruited businessman and professor Dr. Yosi Ben-Dov, with experience in the U.S. and Israel. They established \"Time To Know\" as a for-profit entity outside Israel in order to fund continued development. The platform was introduced to public schools in Texas in 2009 and in New York City’s iZone in 2010-11.\n\nAs of February 2011, \"Time To Know\" was used by 60 schools (6,500 students) in Israel and by 29 schools (3,200 students) in New York City and 4 schools in Texas (1,500 students). Pilot projects began in 2012 in Singapore (three schools with 300 students) and Korea (one school, expected to expand to 10 schools with 50 students by fall 2012). The program was slated to be introduced in France in March 2012 with 300 students in five schools.\n\nThe company employs 250 people in Israel and the US, and has an extensive professional development program. It has been funded entirely by Meitar, who has invested $60 million of his own money into developing \"Time To Know\". In October 2011, LaVerne Evans Srinivasan, former deputy chancellor with the New York City Department of Education, joined Time To Know as president of its North American division.\n\n\"Time To Know\" created the first Digital teaching platform which is a fully integrated platform the teacher to take full advantage of the digital world. The basic hardware requirement is one laptop (or tablet) per student and a desktop connected to a projector for the teacher. The main features of the software are the ability of the teacher to \"control\" the students.\n\n"}
{"id": "36314020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36314020", "title": "Union of Independent Grandes Écoles", "text": "Union of Independent Grandes Écoles\n\nThe Union of Independent Grandes Écoles (, UGEI) is an association of French private \"grandes écoles\" formed in 1993.\n\nIts goal, according to its founders, is to bring together engineering \"grandes écoles\" and business schools which share the same desire for independence. As of 2012, it had 33 members.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "874570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=874570", "title": "University of Puerto Rico, Río Piedras Campus", "text": "University of Puerto Rico, Río Piedras Campus\n\nThe University of Puerto Rico, Río Piedras Campus (), also referred to as UPR-RP and La IUPI, is a public research university located on a campus in Río Piedras, San Juan, Puerto Rico.\n\nUPR-RP serves more than 18,000 students, of which 20% are graduate students, and grants an average of over 3,000 degrees a year. It is recognized by the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching as a research university \"high research activity\" (RU/H). As a public comprehensive doctoral institution, its academic offerings range from the bachelorette to the doctoral degree, through 70 undergraduate programs and 19 graduate degrees with 71 specializations in the basic disciplines and professional fields. UPR‐RP has consistently granted the largest number of doctorate degrees to Hispanics in the US.\n\nUPR-RP is the largest campus in terms of student population of the University of Puerto Rico System, and Puerto Rico's first public university.\n\nIn the year 1900 the \"Escuela Normal Industrial\" (Normal Industrial School) was established in Fajardo, Puerto Rico as the first Higher Education institution of Puerto Rico, dedicated to those who would become teachers on the island. At the time it only had 20 students and 5 professors.\n\nA year later, in 1901, it was moved to the town of Río Piedras, because the roads to Fajardo were in a terrible condition. In the mild and studying-favourable nature around what was known by the time as \"La Convalecencia\" (the summer residence of the Spanish Governors of Puerto Rico) was placed, temporally, the Normal School. Its objectives were still the formation of new teachers for the island.\n\nOn March 12, 1903, under the administration of the Public Instruction Commissioner, Samuel McCune Lindsay, the 2nd Legislative Assembly approved a law creating the University of Puerto Rico in Río Piedras, transferring all the funding of the Insular Normal School there. This School became the first department of the university, what is now the Faculty of Education, becoming the nucleus of the University of Puerto Rico.\n\nNow legally established, the University of Puerto Rico started its first academic year (1903–1904) with an enrollment of 173 students. Due to the scarcity of teachers in the island, most of these students were appointed by the Department of Public Instruction to teach at schools without having finished four years of college. The first graduating class (June 1907) consisted of 13 students.\n\nIn 1907, the first class graduated from the normal course of four years after the university was legally established. Among the students in that class were Carlota Matienzo, Isabel Andréu, Loaíza Cordero, Marina Roviro, and Juan Herrero.\n\nOn September 22, 1913, the departments of Law and Pharmacology were established. The university at the time required only an 8th grade diploma, but with the expansion of its courses, this requirement changed. After 1917, the departments of Normal Education, Liberal Arts, Pharmacology, and Law required a high school diploma for admission.\n\nOn February 21, 1931, Dr. Carlos E. Chardón was appointed as chancellor of the university. During his tenure the university experienced significant growth in endowments. These were used in the expansion of the physical facilities at the Río Piedras and Mayagüez Campuses. This helped turn the university into a respected educational center. Chardón resigned from the post of Chancellor in 1936, being succeeded by Juan B. Soto. The most important part of this period was the expansion of the buildings of the University as part of a plan for the rehabilitation of Puerto Rico.\n\nIn 1936, architect Rafael Carmoega, working under the Puerto Rico Reconstruction Administration (PRRA), designed the distinctive University of Puerto Rico clock tower based on the 1924 Parsons Plan. The iconic university clock tower was built in 1937 and christened as the Franklin Delano Roosevelt tower, in honor of that U.S. president and his interest in the building of the university. La Torre (as The Tower is nicknamed in Spanish) is located at the entrance of the Román Baldorioty de Castro Building. Also at the entrance of the Tower, the coats of arms of the nations of the Americas appear in a bronze circle, as a symbol of Panamerican Union.\n\nThe University was the site of social upheaval during the 1960s and 1970s, when nationalist students protested for civil rights, the independence of Puerto Rico, and taking the ROTC out of the campus. In 1970 Antonia Martínez was murdered by the police when they repressed students. As the shouting started in the street, everyone in the building she was in, on Ponce de León Avenue, went to the balconies to see what was happening. She was, like many others, watching the events, saw policemen attacking at the students, and allegedly shouted at the police \"¡Asesinos!\" (Assassins!). A policeman turned and shot her in the head, killing her and injuring a roommate. A mural of her and her story existed on the College of Humanities, until administrative personnel covered it with paint. Other stories claim that she was shot by mistake.\n\nThe Rio Piedras Campus is a collegiate university. The Chancellor of the Campus is the top academic and administrative officer and presides over its two deliberative bodies: the Administrative Board and the Academic Senate.\n\nThe Administrative Board, composed of the deans, two senators representing the faculty, and one student senator, advises the Chancellor in matters pertaining to the university program. The Board makes recommendations on leaves and faculty aid applications, and grants promotions and tenures.\n\nThe Academic Senate, in turn, is the official academic forum. It is composed of the deans, the director of the library system, elected faculty representatives from all the colleges and schools, student senators, and representatives from the staff of academic advisors. Its members participate on the institutional processes, establishing academic rules and collaborating with other organisms of the University of Puerto Rico system.\n\nThe General Student Council (\"Consejo General de Estudiantes\" or CGE in Spanish) of the UPRRP is the elected student government of the campus. The Council is composed of several representatives to the student council, elected by each School or College, the number of representatives varies depending on the number of students enrolled in the School or College, and the President and Senator of each School and College, for a total of around 50 members. Elections are held in April and representatives are elected for one year, from July 1 to June 30.\n\nHaving its origins in the 1920s, the Student Council was dissolved in 1948 while Jaime Benitez was chancellor, and under the council presidency of Juan Mari Brás and it was not until 1968 that the Student Council was re-installed under the name General Student Council and under the council presidency of David Noriega.\n\nThe General Student Council is governed by the Board of Directors, which is elected from among the council's members and is composed of:\n\n\nAdditionally, they select Representatives to the Campus' Administrative Board and the University's University Board, both of them with an Alternate Representative. They are members of the Board of Directors.\n\nEvery College and School has a student council of its own, composed by a President, a Board of Directors, the College or School's Student Senator (and, if available for the College/School, an alternate senator), Representatives to the General Student Council (numbers vary from 1 up to 5, depending on the School or college's student population), and representatives of each department or subdivision present in the School or College.\n\nThe University High School, technically a part of the campus and its School of Education, has a Student Council independent of the campus student council system. It represents several hundred junior and senior high school students.\n\nColleges have a dean, an associate dean, assistant deans, department chairs, and other administrative directors.\n\nThe Campus counts with four administrative divisions known as 'Deans'. These include:\n\nAcademic Affairs (DAA in Spanish, \"Decanato de Asuntos Académicos\") promotes academic excellence, giving guidance and orientation for successful planning with the Campus Strategic Plan. It implants academic policies, and looks for the effective improvement of all personnel. It promotes and designs institutional research and coordinates accreditation processes. It evaluates the programs offered at the University, while trying to improve institutional effectiveness.\n\nIt is responsible for the suitable development of the services in the Libraries, Registrar, Admissions, and Continuing Education. It advises the Rector and the adequate units, such as the Administrative Council and the Academic Senate on the development of new politics, and efficacy of processes, planification, and academic decisions.\n\nIt is organized with a Dean heading it, with the help of the Associate Dean and 3 Auxiliary Deans, each assigned a certain area of concern such as Foreign Students, General Studies, Business Faculty, the Library System, etcetera.\n\nThree schools are under the Dean of Academic Affairs. These include the School of Communication, the Graduate School of Planning and the Graduate School of Informatic Sciences and Technologies and they are represented on the Administrative Board by the Dean of Academic Affairs.\n\nThe Deanship of Students is the leader organization, compromised with an ever-changing academic population. They try to bring the most advanced technological resources in order to be of help with respect to the services given to students.\n\nFaculties included are:\n\nThe Deanship of Administration is the unit that offers essential services to the university community: it implements and guards for the proper fulfillment of the regulations that rule over administrative processes of the Campus and the entire University System. It plans, coordinates, evaluates and supervises labors related with different administrative and operative processes, but over all, they ensure quality services that have a positive aspect on student life, teaching and learning scenarios, investigation areas, labor areas of conformities, according to the Campus mission and the Public Administration that commands the university.\n\nThe UPRRP is considered the heart of the commercial and cultural area of Río Piedras, located in the central region of the capital city of San Juan. It is easily accessible via public transportation, including the Urban Train arriving to the vicinity of the enclosure that is easily identified at a distance by its landmark tower. The campus combines sidewalks, and landscaping between old and modern buildings that serve as evidence of architectural development of the past 107 years in Puerto Rican architecture. The campus's central quadrangle and tower were listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1984.\n\nThe University of Puerto Rico was established in Río Piedras in 1903. The first buildings were the Normal School (1902), the Model School (1903), and the residence for the Principal (1903), next to the Central Road (today, Ponce de Leon Avenue). Over the years, the development of the University occurred somewhat spontaneously. In 1908 the architectural firm of Clark, Howe and Homer designed a new façade for the Model School in the California Mission Style. In 1909 a milk processing building was constructed in an agricultural area, east of the academic center. Arts and Crafts’ Workshop buildings, a Library and a Gymnasium were projected, as well as the grand stand and the fence (all demolished). In 1912 began the construction for the Memorial Hall (Baldorioty building) and in 1918 buildings for the Law School and the School of Pharmacy were in the works. In 1924 the Chicago firm of urbanists Bennett, Parsons and Frost were contacted to design a master plan for the future development of the University. It wasn’t until 1935, with the establishment of the Puerto Rico Reconstruction Administration (PRRA) and the large sum of federal funds that it invested for public works in Puerto Rico, that the partial design and construction of the so-called Plan Parson began. Under the supervision of architect Rafael Carmoega, a group of local architects designed what is known as “el Cuadrángulo” (the Quadrangle). However, from the 1940s onward a new architectural paradigm, which discarded historical vocabularies and incorporated attitudes learned from Germany and from the studio of Frank Lloyd Wright, stemmed from German émigré Henry Klumb. For 20 years Klumb was sole architect for the University of Puerto Rico, designing buildings for the campuses at Río Piedras and Mayagüez until in 1966. At that time chancellor Jaime Benítez assigned the design of the General Studies building to the architectural firm of Toro & Ferrer. Other buildings for the University have been designed by architects Antonio Marqués Carrión (sport facilities, 1971); José Firpi (student residence Torre Norte, 1971); the firm of Reed, Torres, Beauchamp & Marvel (new Education Faculty Building, 1974 and the first expansion to the Faculty of Natural Sciences, 1978); the firm of García & Landray (second expansion the Faculty of Natural Sciences, 1989); GDO Arquitectos (School of Architecture, 2001) and Toro Ferrer (new General Studies building, 2007).\n\nThe Library System of the Río Piedras Campus incorporates the resources and services of various campus libraries in order to serve the research and teaching needs of the university community. It also extends its services to the Puerto Rican community at large, thus fulfilling, in part, its social and cultural responsibility to the island. The system comprises eighteen specialized and general libraries, with holdings totaling more than 4,000,000 items, access to which may be achieved through the university's online catalog. Of special interest are the Caribbean and Latin American Studies Library and the Puerto Rican Collection, both located in the José M. Lázaro Building.\n\nIn addition to the traditional services–reference, circulation, reserves, photocopying, local interlibrary loan, and the compilation of bibliographies and acquisition lists–the Library System also carries out on-line interlibrary loans with libraries all over the world. Other services include Dial Order, DIALOG, microfilming, reproduction of photographs, library instruction and orientation, lectures, and exhibits. The Integration of the Information Competencies to the Curriculum Projects promotes the development of information competencies around the Campus. The Library System offers special facilities for the blind and physically handicapped. Integral parts of the Library System are the graduate and special collections in the Business Administration, Planning, Public Administration, Social Work, and Library Science programs. Independent of the campus Library System are the libraries of the School of Law, Natural Sciences Faculty, and the School of Architecture, which are also located on the university campus.\n\nThe Information Systems Office serves the educational, research and administrative efforts of the institution. As a member of Internet2 and the Internet, the University enjoys instant communication with institutions all over the world for the purposes of correspondence and information access. Improvements to existing telecommunications infrastructure include the installation of structured cabling in campus buildings and fiber optics as a means of interconnecting them. Currently, campus buildings are configured to ATM (155Mbits / s) and Gigabit Ethernet interfacing equipment, providing greater capacity to transfer video, voice and data. The campus is capable of offering video conferencing over ATM (Asynchronous Transfer Mode), ISDN (Integrated Services Digital Network), or via the Internet in H.323 format.\n\nThe academic community has access to computer facilities all over campus. The types of equipment and laboratory hours vary, so you should request information directly from each service location.\n\nThe Museum of Art, History, and Anthropology was created in 1951 by legislative act to “complete and preserve our art, history, and anthropological heritage,” as a means to educate and enrich our culture. The current building, designed by the architect Henry Klumb, was inaugurated in 1959. Since its establishment, the museum has actively contributed to the growth of Puerto Rican cultural life by holding art, historical, and anthropological exhibits and sponsoring lectures, seminars, publications, and workshops–to the benefit of both the academic and the general communities.\n\nThe Río Piedras campus provides housing in three residence halls:\nThere is also a Guest House within the Student Center, with rooms at affordable rates for visitors to the university, faculty, or students.\n\n10% of first-year and 4% of all undergraduates live in college housing. No married student housing is available. Also private housing is available in surrounding areas of the university.\n\nThe Campus serves more than 18,000 students, 20% graduate, and grants an average of over 3,000 degrees a year. From 2005 up to 2010 doctorate degrees conferred have maintained an upward trend. UPR‐RP has consistently granted the largest number of doctorate degrees to Hispanics in the US.\n\nAs a public comprehensive doctoral institution, its\nacademic offerings range from the baccalaureate to the doctoral degree, through 70\nundergraduate programs and 19 graduate degrees with 71 specializations in the basic\ndisciplines and professional fields.\n\nThe graduate offer includes 12 PhDs, one Doctorate\nin Education, and international programs in Law, at both LLM and JD levels. The Campus\nfrontier of knowledge production has been expanded during this period with the creation of a\nMaster in Cultural Management and Administration in the College of Humanities, and Masters\nand PhD programs in Environmental Science, the PhD currently under consideration by the\nlicensing board in PR, to be initiated in August, 2010. 56 academic programs are\nprofessionally accredited.\n\nIn 2005-2006, the Río Piedras campus was placed as the 4th among the top 25 institutions selected by the federal government of the United States for support in the acquisition of equipment for chemical research.\n\nFor the present academic year, close to $4M will be distributed to graduate students in fellowships and graduate assistantships; this amount includes institutional funds and a special legislature assignment.\n\nAlso, since year 2008, the campus is seen a significant increment in professors actively seeking external funding and the level of funding approved by the donors. For instance, the number of multi‐years’ proposals submitted in years 2008 and 2009 adds to $83,407,854 and $184,492,751, respectively. In terms of approved projects, on a single‐year basis, the amount of funding received in years 2008 and 2009 amounts $8,013,517 and $15,709,318, respectively; mainly for research projects in the Colleges of Social and Natural Sciences. Up to date, from January through August 2010, multi‐years proposal approvals at UPR‐RP add $22,656,477.\n\nResearch activities are enhanced by a variety of research\ncenters and institutes, including the widely recognized Institute for Tropical Ecosystem Studies\nthat conducts long term environmental research on Caribbean islands and similar tropical areas\nand is part of a global research network, and the Institute of Caribbean Studies (est. 1958) (which publishes the journal \"Caribbean Studies\", ) and the Institute of Psychological Research, among others.\n\n\nThe School of Architecture of the University of Puerto Rico offers a Bachelor of Environmental Design and a Master of Architecture. The Master of Architecture professional degree is offered by our School, accredited by the National Architectural Accrediting Board (NAAB).\nThe UPR School of Architecture was established thanks to legislation approved in Puerto Rico in 1958 for such purpose. That same year and to that effect, Puerto Rican architect Santiago Iglesias, Jr. presented a resolution at the annual convention of the American Institute of Architects, celebrated in Cleveland, Ohio. In 1965, Puerto Rican architect Jesús Eduardo Amaral, a aap.cornell.edu trained architect, was selected as an executive consultant and given the responsibility to establish the school. Proposals were submitted to UPR's Río Piedras Chancellor Jaime Benítez and finally in 1966, the School was officially recognized by the Council of Superior Education (Consejo de Educación Superior).\n\nSee UPRRP College of Business Administration\n\nThe College of Business Administration, previously \"College of Commerce\", was established on University of Puerto Rico, Rio Piedras in 1926 with a roll of 70 students on a nocturnal program. From its beginning, it has offered preparation of university level in many areas of Business Administration. It also offers a bachelor's degree in administration of office systems, which substituted the secretarial sciences bachelor's degree.\n\nIn 1958 the Center for Commercial Investigations and for Academical Initiatives with the purpose of promoting investigation and contribute in the creation of knowledge in the area of Business Administration. Eventually, Cooperative Education, \"Link\" (Enlace), International Commerce Development and Enterprise Development programs, in order to have a narrower collaboration with business world.\n\nIn the academic year of 1970-71, the Graduated School of Business Administration began offering master's degree in Business Administration (MBA) making it the first of its kind in the Caribbean. In addition to master's degree the School offers altogether with Law School and the Doctoral Program of Business Management the \"MBA/JD Program\" which is built towards guidance on professional practice, whilst the Doctoral Program is orientated towards research.\n\nStudent enrollment in the College of Business Administration is approximately 2,800 undergraduates and 400 graduate students. This College enrollment is the third highest in the Río Piedras Campus. Nearly 530 Bachelor's degrees and 50 Graduate degrees are conferred annually. 63% of the students of the College are female, similar to the 67% of population of Río Piedras Campus being female.\n\nIn November 2013, the School of Business and the Graduate School of Business are the first and only public study centers in business, accredited in Puerto Rico and Latin America by the prestigious Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB).\n\nSee UPRRP Graduate School of Business Administration\n\nThe Graduate School of Business Administration (EGAE), is a place to develop your talent as an entrepreneur and administrator, thanks to the support of a faculty that has doctoral degrees of recognized schools, with intellectual contributions of global impact and professional practice in their respective areas of interest, within the world of business.\n\nThe School of Communication (COPU, formerly known as \"Comunicación Pública\" in Spanish, from where the acronym comes COmunicación PUblica) was established in 1972 with a master's degree in public Communication. A bachelor's degree was created in 1977. Following a curricular revision that went into effect in 2002 three undergraduate majors were developed:\nIn addition, two concentrations were developed for the masters program:\n\nThe Eugenio María de Hostos College of Education (in Spanish Facultad de Educación Eugenio María de Hostos) is the biggest and oldest college of the University of Puerto Rico, founded on October 1, 1900 as the Normal School of Teachers (Escuela Normal para Maestros) in the Puerto Rican eastern city of Fajardo. The College has an estimate of 3,400 students who study in six different colleges of the University. The College headquarters are located in the New Building of Education in the south of the campus, and administrate 9 buildings in all the campus, including a house in down town Río Piedras District in San Juan.\n\nThe academic offers of the college include Philosophy of the Education, Human Development, Sociology, Psychology of the Education, Studies of Special Education and Students with Disabilities, Junior Elementary Literature, Nutrition, Cooking, Technology, Graphic Arts, etcetera. Even thou, the college make affairs with other faculties in the campus to prepare the High School Education schedule as Spanish, English, Science, Mathematics, History, Social Studies, Art, Theatre, Commerce, Secretary and others. Physical Education and Sports are offered in the Sports Complex at the north side of the campus, also belong to the College.\n\nThe college moved to Río Piedras once the University was founded on March 12, 1903\nThe General Studies Division was created in 1943 and became a College in 1945. The creation of the general studies program was the cornerstone of the 1942 University Reform. Within the University's system, the College has the particularity of being constituted as a multi- and interdisciplinary one, wherein three great sections of knowledge converge: Humanities (including Vernacular Spanish, its literary and linguistic components), Social Sciences and Natural Sciences, and English for Academic Purposes, including its literary and linguistic components.\n\nThe College of General Studies offers these courses, which will vary depending on the requirements asked by the different Colleges the student heads to: Humanities, Spanish, English, Biological Sciences, Social Sciences, and Physical Sciences.\n\nThe main building of the College of General Studies is called Domingo Marrero Navarro, after one of its deans.\n\nEstablished in 1943, the faculty currently has about 2,000 students in the undergraduate program and about 300 students in its graduate program. This faculty offers undergraduate, graduate and doctoral degrees in various disciplines such as Fine Arts, Drama, Hispanic Studies, English, Comparative literature, Philosophy, History, Modern Languages, Linguistics, Music, Translation, Interdisciplinary Studies, among others. It has various investigation centers, as well as seminars, specialized libraries in Fine Arts, Philosophy, Music and English, and counts with the publication of several educational magazines.\n\nSee University of Puerto Rico Law School.\n\nThe University of Puerto Rico School of Law is accredited by the American Bar Association.\n\nSee UPRRP College of Natural Sciences\n\nThe College of Social Sciences (CISO, \"Ciencias Sociales\" in Spanish, from where the acronym comes CIencias SOciales) was established in 1943, with the mission of teaching universal knowledge on the social sciences, advancing the social comprehension of the nation.\n\nThe College offers undergraduate studies in the Departments of: Anthropology, Sociology, Psychology, Political Science, Social Sciences (General), Economics, Social Work, Geography and Labor Relations.\n\nThe College offers graduate studies in the Departments of: Rehabilitation Counselling, Public Administration, Social Work, Economics, Sociology and Psychology.\n\nIn April 1965, the Board of Education approved the establishment of the Graduate School of Planning (EGP), which commenced its first academic year in August the same year.\n\nThe program was funded with funds from the University of Puerto Rico and the Ford Foundation. The orientation of the curriculum was influenced by the dominant planning perspectives during the 1960s in the United States and the Economic Commission for Latin America. At this early stage, the Faculty had distinguished colleagues from Cornell University and other international institutions.\n\nIn addition, educators and researchers from across the island and abroad participated in the design and establishment of priorities of the curriculum. Areas of specialty include economic planning, regional, urban and social. Already in 1975 it established a new discipline of environmental planning.\n\n\nEGCTI (Escuela Graduada de Ciencias y Tecnologías de la Información) - Graduate School of Information Sciences and Technologies. The master's program is accredited by the American Library Association (ALA)\n\n\nContinuing Education and Professional Studies\n\nSee University High School (San Juan)\n\nThe University High School was built in the year 1913. It is currently operated by the Faculty of Education of the University of Puerto Rico. It currently has around 500 students from 7th to 12th grade.\n\nThe University of Puerto Rico, Rio Piedras is a founding member of the island-wide Inter-University Athletic League (LAI) and participates in all of the sports included in that organization. The University competed as an independent in NCAA Division II.\n\nOne of the most enriching aspects of student life in Río Piedras is the vast number of cultural and social events organized by the University. In addition to the usual academic conferences and lectures, there are a host of activities to choose from on any given day. Cultural Activities, run by the Dean of Students, is the central agency at Río Piedras that plans and sponsors major events on and off campus. They run a busy schedule with a cultural activity virtually every day of the week and on many weekends, too. The \"Serie de Cine al Aire Libre\" runs every month throughout the school year, presenting classic and contemporary films in the Baldorioty de Castro Plaza in front of the Tower. Admission is always free. Additionally, there are indoor concerts by musical groups such as the \"Orquesta Filarmónica de Puerto Rico\", the Tuna of UPR-Río Piedras, and the voice emsambles of the campus, Coro de la Universidad de Puerto Rico (founded in 1936 by Augusto Rodríguez), and Coralia, the concert choir.\n\n\n\n\n\nSocial societies:\n\nGreek-lettered service, professional and/or honor societies:\n\nSee List of University of Puerto Rico, Rio Piedras people\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44436", "title": "Wilhelm Johannsen", "text": "Wilhelm Johannsen\n\nWilhelm Johannsen (3 February 1857 – 11 November 1927) was a Danish botanist, plant physiologist, and geneticist. He is best known for coining the terms gene, phenotype and genotype, and for his 1903 \"pure line\" experiments in genetics.\n\nJohannsen was born in Copenhagen. While very young, he was apprenticed to a pharmacist and worked in Denmark and Germany beginning in 1872 until passing his pharmacist's exam in 1879. In 1881, he became assistant in the chemistry department at the Carlsberg Laboratory under the chemist Johan Kjeldahl. Johannsen studied the metabolism of dormancy and germination in seeds, tubers and buds. He showed that dormancy could be broken by various anesthetic compounds, such as diethyl ether and chloroform.\n\nIn 1892, he was appointed lecturer at Royal Veterinary and Agricultural University and later became professor of botany and plant physiology. He taught plant physiology. His best-known research concerned so-called \"pure lines\" of the self-fertile common bean. He was able to show that even in populations homozygous for all traits, i.e. without genetic variation, seed size followed a normal distribution. This was attributable to resource provision to the mother plant and to the position of seeds in pods and of pods on the plant. This led him to coin the terms \"phenotype\" and \"genotype\".\n\nJohannsen's findings led him to oppose contemporary Darwinists, most notably Francis Galton and Karl Pearson, who held the occurrence of normal distributed trait variation in populations as proof of gradual genetic variation on which selection could act. Only with the modern synthesis, was it established that variation needed to be heritable to act as the raw material for selection.\n\nHe created the terms \"phenotype\" and \"genotype\", first using them in his paper \"Om arvelighed i samfund og i rene linier\" (\"On heredity in society and in pure lines\") and in his book \"Arvelighedslærens Elementer\". This book was rewritten, enlarged and translated into German as \"Elemente der exakten Erblichkeitslehre\". It was in this book Johannsen introduced the term \"gene\". This term was coined in opposition to the then common \"pangene\" that stemmed from Darwin's theory of pangenesis. The book became one of the founding texts of genetics.\n\nAlso in 1905, Johannsen was appointed professor of plant physiology at the University of Copenhagen, becoming vice-chancellor in 1917. In December 1910, Johannsen was invited to give an address before the American Society of Naturalists. This talk was printed in the American Naturalist. In 1911, he was invited to give a series of four lectures at Columbia University.\n\nJohannsen was a corresponding member of the Academy of Natural Sciences of Philadelphia (elected 1915).\n\nJohannsen died from work poisoning in 1927.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11020276", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11020276", "title": "Yvonne Cartier", "text": "Yvonne Cartier\n\nYvonne Cartier (27 February 1928 – 11 May 2014) was a New Zealand-born ballet dancer and instructor, and mime. Her artistic biography coincides with the rebirth of theatrical dancing in England after World War II.\n\nBorn in the Auckland suburb of Saint Heliers on 27 February 1928, Cartier began dancing on stage at the age of four in a pantomime. While studying ballet with Valerie Valeska and Bettina Edwards, she saw the Borovanski Ballet on tour, and decided to make dance her career. In 1946, following in the footsteps of Bettina Edward's student Rowena Jackson, she emigrated to England on scholarship to the Royal Ballet School, studying with Winifred Edwards, George Goncharov, Vera Volkova and Audrey de Vos.\n\nIn London, she joined the Saint James' Ballet, run by Alan Carter. With Michel de Lutry (ballet master for the project), his wife Domini Callaghan, and Sonia Hana, Yvonne Cartier took part in one of the very early television programmes, BBC's \"Ballet for Beginners\". When the Ballet for Beginners Company went on tour, it was joined by Ken Russell (later the film-maker), who danced Coppelius to Yvonne Cartier's Swanhilda.\n\nShe then took odd jobs in revue theatre in London, such as Sauce Tartare with Audrey Hepburn. It was whilst dancing in cabaret that she came across Larice Arlen, ballet mistress, wife to the Managing Director of Sadler's Wells Opera.\n\nLarice Arlen pushed Cartier to re-audition for Sadler's Wells Theatre Ballet, which she joined, and there created ballets for John Cranko, Andrée Howard, Walter Gore and Ninette de Valois. At Ninette de Valois' request, she then joined the main company at Covent Garden. There, she also danced all the classics.\n\nFollowing a serious injury to the ankle, inoperable at the time, Cartier left England for France in 1957, and worked for 20 years as a mime with the celebrated troupes of Jacques Lecoq and Marcel Marceau, and as choreographer and movement specialist to theatre companies. At the Ecole Charles Dulin, she taught mime and movement, and then acted as assistant to Michael Cacoyannis for \"Les Troyennes\" at the Théâtre National Populaire, which production she later staged for the Festival d'Avignon. She also assisted Georges Wilson for his staging of \"Grandeur et Décadence de la Ville de Mahagonny\".\n\nThereafter, she returned to the classical dance, teaching in several Paris-area Conservatoires, notably the Nadia Boulanger Conservatory.\n\nCartier trained several high-level artists including Muriel Valtat and Betina Marcolin. She was Consultant to Beryl Morina's authoritative \"Mime in Ballet\" (2000). Cartier was the photographic model for Gordon Anthony in Felicity Gray's \"Ballet for Beginners\" (1952), and she continued to teach and coach in Paris until her death, on 11 May 2014.\n\n"}
