{"id": "22181917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22181917", "title": "24 (season 8)", "text": "24 (season 8)\n\nThe eighth season of the American drama television series \"24\", also known as Day 8, premiered in the United States on Fox on January 17, 2010. The eighth season was announced as the final season of \"24\" and its series finale aired on May 24, 2010. However, the series returned with a ninth season as \"\", which aired in 2014. The season's storyline begins and ends at 4:00 p.m.\n\nSet 18 months after season 7, the story arc involves Jack Bauer contending with assassination threats made during a peace conference between President of the United States Allison Taylor and President Omar Hassan of the fictional Islamic Republic of Kamistan (IRK). The season is set in New York City, with CTU's New York City Office having been re-activated, but while there were originally no plans for filming in New York due to budget constraints, some scenes were shot on-location.\n\nThe three main acts of season eight are:\n\n\nThe signing of an important treaty between the US and the IRK (Islamic Republic of Kamistan) is about to take place at the UN. Kamistani terrorists, resentful of America and disappointed at Hassan's willingness to concede their attempts at developing nuclear weapons, choose this day to attempt to assassinate the Kamistani president, Omar Hassan. The assassination attempt is initially led by Hassan's brother Farhad.\n\nCTU learns from the rescue of Hassan that terrorists have a plan to acquire nuclear rods from the Russian mob. With the help of Renee Walker, Jack forces the cooperation of Sergei Bazhaev's mob family. The nuclear rods are given to Samir Mehran, who plans to make a dirty bomb on American soil. Hassan's head of security, Tarin Faroush is revealed to be a part of Mehran's group and they present an ultimatum to Taylor's government — she must hand over Hassan for execution or the bomb will be detonated.\n\nWhen Taylor orders that Hassan still be protected at all costs, a US black-ops team attempts to kidnap him. Jack Bauer and the rest of Hassan's protective detail kill all but one member of the team but upon learning of the ultimatum, Hassan turns himself into Mehran. With the nuclear crisis averted, CTU agents attempt to save Hassan and close in on Mehran. However, they arrive to see that Hassan has already been killed. Taylor is able to resurrect the treaty by convincing Hassan's wife Dalia to assume her husband's position as interim President and to sign the treaty on her country's behalf.\n\nConsidering their duties to be over, Jack and Renee return to his apartment where they have a romantic encounter. However, a Russian assassin follows them there and fires through the windows to tie up loose ends. Renee is hit and a frantic race ensues as Jack rushes her to the hospital. She dies on arrival whereupon Jack vows to avenge her death and bring everyone involved in the conspiracy and cover-up to justice. Allison Taylor fears that Jack's actions will be enough to have the treaty called off and orders his lockdown. Jack frees himself and at the cost of a third world war, begins to hunt down and kill every member of the conspiracy that killed Walker and Hassan. This leads to a cat and mouse game when Charles Logan approaches Allison Taylor and offers to use the unique resources at his disposal to capture Bauer.\n\nJack kills Dana Walsh (the mole at CTU), Mikhail Novakovich (the Russian Foreign Minister) and Pavel Tokarev (the assassin who killed Renee). He also aims a sniper rifle at Charles Logan's window and demands that Logan invite Russian President Yuri Suvarov to the hotel room. Logan agrees and Jack prepares to pull the trigger, but Chloe talks him out of it at the last second. When President Taylor has free rein to sign the treaty and have Jack permanently silenced she has a change of heart and turns herself into the Attorney General. Wanted by Russian and American forces Jack says goodbye to Chloe who is watching him through the camera feed of a predator drone. She orders that the feed be turned off and sees Jack disappear from the screen as he disappears from her life.\n\n\n\n\n<onlyinclude></onlyinclude>\n\nStarting with episode 18, Chip Johannessen was promoted to executive producer by the production company Imagine Television. An interview with Kiefer Sutherland seemed to indicate that season eight would take place within very close proximity to the closing events of season seven, but ultimately the story picked up more than a year after the events of the previous season. The show got permission to shoot in the UN building in New York City but Kiefer Sutherland said that they would \"probably use that primarily for exteriors\".\n\nIn October 2009, the debut trailer for Season 8 aired on Fox. It was titled \"Survive\" and hinted that the eighth season would be the last with the line \"All Jack Bauer has to do is survive one more day.\" The trailer shows Jack relaxing with his family and being warned about the impending threat to President Hassan's life. On November 26, 2009 a second trailer was released which featured the song \"Run This Town\" by Jay-Z.\n\nOn the review aggregator website Metacritic, the eighth season scored 67 out of 100, based on 19 reviews, indicating \"Generally favorable reviews\".\n\nGregory Itzin, who played former President Charles Logan this season, was nominated for Best Guest Actor in a Drama Series, four years after getting the nomination for Best Supporting Actor in a Drama Series. The series also received the nomination for the Television Critics Association Heritage Award. In a review by IGN, the writing in Season 8 was compared negatively to the writing in other seasons with \"It's always difficult to see a once vibrant and exciting show clearly drop in quality...the \"24\" writers simply didn't play fair – because there was no way the Dana from the beginning of the season could have been the Dana we saw later...This plot twist took an already frustrating character and made her even more of a mess. \"\n\nThe eighth season was released on DVD and Blu-ray in region 1 on and in region 2 on \n\n"}
{"id": "58492819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58492819", "title": "Bakutsuri Bar Hunter", "text": "Bakutsuri Bar Hunter\n\nAn anime television series by Toei Animation and Studio Gallop aired from October 2, 2018. The opening theme is \"Bakutsuri Soul\", performed by SymaG and the ending theme is \"Yūjō ZABOOOON!!\", performed by Mikako Komatsu.\n\nA manga series has been serialized in Shogakukan's \"CoroCoro Comic\" since March 15, 2018.\n\nA Nintendo 3DS game was released in March 2018. It consists of a barcode camera and a fishing reel accessory called a Bakutsuri Bar Rod. The game itself is a free download from the Nintendo eShop. The player uses the barcode camera on a barcode to open a fishing spot, which allows them to fish for \"bar soul\" lifeforms.\n\n"}
{"id": "321971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=321971", "title": "Bayard (legend)", "text": "Bayard (legend)\n\nBayard (; ; ) is a magic bay horse in the legends derived from the \"chansons de geste\", renowned for his spirit, and possessed the supernatural ability to adjust his size to his riders.\n\nBayard first appears as the property of Renaud de Montauban (Italian: \"Rinaldo\") in the Old French twelfth century \"chanson de geste\" \"Quatre Fils Aymon\". The horse was capable of carrying Rinaldo and his three brothers (\"the four sons of Aymon\") all at the same time and of understanding human speech. Near the end of the work, Renaud is forced to cede Bayard to Charlemagne who, as punishment for the horse's exploits, has a large stone tied to Bayard's neck and has the horse pushed into the river; Bayard however smashes the stone with his hooves and escapes to live forever more in the woods.\n\nIn subsequent chansons de geste, Bayard was said to have been initially won by Renaud's cousin, the magician Maugris, before being given to Renaud.\nIn Bulfinch's Mythology, Rinaldo's acquisition of Bayard is described as follows: a disguised Maugris (who had previously acquired Bayard) tells Rinaldo that a wild horse under an enchantment roams the woods, and that this horse belonged initially to Amadis of Gaul and can only be won by a knight of Amadis' lineage. Rinaldo eventually subdues the horse by throwing it on the ground, breaking the enchantment. \n\nBayard also appears in the epic poems on chivalrous subjects by Luigi Pulci, Matteo Maria Boiardo and Ludovico Ariosto.\n\nBayard by the late 13th century also acquired common usage as a name for any bay-coloured horse (reddish-brown coat with black mane and tail) and lost some of his lustre as a magic heroic horse. \"Bayard\"became associated in English literature with a clownish, blind and foolish horse. \n\nChaucer first used Bayard as the name of Troilus' horse in the epic poem \"Troilus and Criseyde.\" That horse, talking while he pranced, admitted that he was bound to be but a horse. Chaucer also used Bayard in the Canterbury Tales (c. 1286) to denote a randy stud in the Reeve's Tale and a blind, foolish horse in The Canon's Yeoman's Tale: \"Though ye prolle ay, ye shul it nevere fynde. Ye been as boold as is Bayard the blynde. That blondreth forth and peril casteth noon.\" (\"Though you search afar, you shall never find it; Be you as bold as Bayard the blind, that blunders forth and perceives no peril.)\n\nOutside the town of Dinant in Belgium stands \"Bayard rock\", a large cleft rock formation that was said to have been split by Bayard's mighty hooves. In the next town down river Namur stands a locally famous statue of the Horse Bayard and the Four Aymon Brothers along the River Meuse. There are plenty of named places in Wallonia linked to the legend of Four Aymon Brothers and Bayard.\n\nThe Bayard legend is also celebrated in other towns in Belgium most notably in the Flemish town of Dendermonde, where a large procession is organized every ten years. The rivalry between Dendermonde and Aalst, a city close by, has led to the construction of the Steed Balatum by the inhabitants of Aalst, as a parody on Bayard.\nProcessions are also organized at Mechelen and Ath. There are Bayard statues at Ghent and Grembergen. \n\nNote that a magical horse Blind Byard is part of Lincolnshire folklore at Byard's Leap\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46970433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46970433", "title": "Boglioli", "text": "Boglioli\n\nBoglioli is a men's tailoring family business originally based in the Italian town of Gambara (province of Brescia). The president and CEO is Francesco Russo.\n\nIts showroom is at Corso Venezia 36 in Milan. Its signature item of menswear is garment-dyed jackets.\n\n"}
{"id": "6518852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6518852", "title": "Border Crossing (novel)", "text": "Border Crossing (novel)\n\nBorder Crossing is a novel written by English author Pat Barker, and first published in 2001.\n\nThe novel explores the controversial issue of children who have committed murder, in particular the aftermath after their sentence is served out. A tense psychological thriller, \"Border Crossing\" investigates the crimes of particularly violent children, the notion of evil and the possibility of redemption.\n\nWhen Tom Seymour, a child psychologist, plunges into a river to save a young man from suicide, he unwittingly reopens a chapter from his past he had hoped to forget. For Tom already knows the young man as Danny Miller. When Danny was eleven, Tom presented evidence that helped commit him to prison for the murder of the elderly Lizzie Parks. Danny, full of suppressed memory and now free from prison, turns to Tom to help him recount what really happened, and discover the truth.\n\nReluctantly, Tom is drawn back into Danny's world, a place where the border between good and evil, innocence and guilt are blurred and confused. But when Danny's demands on Tom become extreme, Tom wonders whether he has crossed the line between the professional and personal relationship, speculating upon, but never realising, the perilous danger he is in until it is almost too late.\n\nThe events of \"Border Crossing\" are quite possibly inspired by a particularly tragic murder case that took place in Britain in 1993. On 12 February of that year, two-year-old James Patrick Bulger was taken from his mother's side whilst in a shopping centre, and suffered ten skull fractures as a result of an iron bar striking his head. His body was then placed on railway tracks and covered with stones. The two murderers were found to be Robert Thompson and Jon Venables, both ten years old.\n\nThe case caused considerable controversy both in Britain and worldwide. Just like Danny in \"Border Crossing\", Thompson and Venables were tried and sentenced as adults.\n\n\"Border Crossing\" opens with Tom Seymour and his wife Lauren strolling along a deserted river path. They pass the derelict remnants of their decaying neighbourhood, with numerous buildings awaiting demolition or already burnt to the ground, and litter strewn across the path. They stop to observe a young man pause at the edge of a pier, swallow a handful of pills and disappear into the depths of the icy-cold river.\n\nTom sprints to the boy's aid and, after a moment's hesitation, dives in after him. Struggling with the body, Tom manages to drag the boy back towards the bank of the river through the thick, repugnant mud. The boy, his face covered in a mud mask, is not breathing, so they perform CPR. After Tom detects a pulse, Lauren rushes back to the house to call an ambulance, which arrives promptly. The paramedics establish that the drowned boy is now stable, and they load him into the ambulance to be taken to hospital.\nTom and Lauren arrive back home, and Lauren prepares a hot bath. The couple retreat to bed, for the first time in months not worrying about Lauren's menstrual cycle or pregnancy. Afterwards, Tom deserts a frustrated Lauren and drinks whisky, feeling guilty and inadequate; Lauren had not climaxed.\n\nTom discovers that he had unknowingly traded coats with the boy he'd rescued, and, realising that his mail and a pair of spare keys were in his coat, he travels to the hospital to retrieve it. The nurse informs Tom that the boy's name is Ian Wilkinson, though the boy introduces himself to Tom as Danny Miller. Danny and Tom have a pre-existing professional relationship; Tom evaluated Danny when he was just ten years old, concluding that Danny could be tried as an adult. Danny had only been released from prison ten months previously, living under the false identity of Ian.\n\nTom immediately wonders whether their remarkable meeting was chance, or \"a dramatic gesture gone badly, almost fatally, wrong.\"\nTom and Lauren have an argument. Despite frequent attempts, Tom is unable to get Lauren pregnant. Tom feels used and inadequate, and Lauren as if her time is running out. Lauren leaves for work for the week, after announcing that she will not be coming home for the following weekend.\n\nTom reviews past child case histories for a book that he is writing. Michelle, ten years old, had bitten off the nose of her foster mother's natural daughter. Jason, showing no hint of remorse, had lit a fire in which four people had died.\n\nAfter several hours of research, Tom meets Roddy Taylor, the director of a medium-security child institution, for lunch. Tom tells him about his inability to get Lauren pregnant, although he suspects that, through Lauren and his wife, Roddy already knows this.\nTom reads over the report he'd written many years ago, when he had evaluated a ten-year-old Danny at the remand centre. He'd been unprepared for the sight of such a young boy, knowing that he had committed the murder of an elderly lady named Lizzie Parks.\n\nTom had spoken softly, asking Danny simple questions to get the session started. After several hours, Tom had established several significant ideas about Danny's emotional maturity. Danny had believed that a person's death was somewhat unimportant, because \"thousands of people get killed all the time, all over the world.\" He had conceded that Lizzie Parks' death was important, but not very, because \"she'd had her life.\" Danny had revealed that he still suffered from the effects of her death, sleeping badly, having nightmares, suffering flashbacks, and that everything around him seemed unreal. All this time, Danny had maintained his innocence. Throughout the session, Tom had observed Danny deliberately mimicking Tom's actions, possibly an early sign of Danny's attempts at manipulation.\n\nAs Tom had been about to leave the session, Danny had thrown his arms around Tom, who had been surprised, but hadn't reject the gesture. As Tom had left the building, the warder had remarked to him, \"Well, he is a horror, isn't he?\" Based upon the results of his evaluation, Tom had decided that Danny possessed a full understanding of death as a permanent state, and had recommended that Danny stand trial for murder in an adult's court.\nTom has an unusual dream, beginning with a meeting with his father, who is deceased, and ending with his father's figure morphing into various random objects and a voice whispering, \"That's what a great love comes to – a rabbit running between graves.\"\n\nThe following day, Tom visits his mother for lunch, evoking further memories of his father. His mother, still grieving for her husband after several years, denies any difficulties, though Tom observes that she is withering quickly in the absence of physical love.\n\nBefore setting off home, Tom visits a pond he used to play in as a child of ten years. He and a friend, Jeff Bridges, had been looking for frog spawn all day, though they had been given the unwanted responsibility of looking after Neil, the four-year-old son of some friends of Jeff's parents.\n\nAfter playing \"piggy in the middle\" in the garden for about twenty minutes, they had ignored their parents' warnings and had visited the pond, rumoured to have a flooded well in the centre of it. One of them had placed frog spawn in Neil's wellington boots, and Neil had panicked, screaming and crying and slowly backing into the depths of the pond. Desperate to keep him quiet, Tom and Jeff had begun to throw stones in Neil's direction, and they had splashed around him.\n\nA man on a bus, glancing up from his paper, had witnessed this spectacle and come to Neil's aid, preventing what might have escalated into an horrific death.\nDanny arrives at Tom's house for his first planned consultation with Tom, although it is slightly more informal than that. Danny explains his difficulties upon being released from prison. He had met a girl, though had broken it off rather than risking her reaction after finding out about his past. He had also been raped in prison, a startlingly intimate revelation which Tom attributes to Danny's distinct lack of sense of normal social distance and pacing.\n\nDanny details his ambitions of being a teacher, and how the law prohibits him from working with people. Frustrated with his life, Danny had returned to the prison, and Martha Pitt, his parole officer, had collected him from the waiting room.\n\nDanny decides that he wants to continue his consultations with Tom, to understand \"what happened and why\". He reveals his belief that their meeting was not an accident, but fate, though Tom is still suspicious of the circumstances.\n\nA child psychologist, and the central character of the third-person narrative, Tom originally proclaimed Danny capable of distinguishing between fantasy and reality, and of understanding the notion of death as a permanent state. Tom's testimony in court effectively ensured that Danny was tried as an adult, despite being only eleven years old, and sentenced to twelve years in juvenile prison for the murder of Lizzie Parks.\n\nYears later, when he next encounters Danny, Tom is also suffering from the breakdown of his marriage to Lauren. Tom feels disconnected from Lauren, and resents being treated as a \"sperm bank\" in their failed attempts to have children. Their relationship gradually disintegrates throughout the course of the novel, ending with Lauren's asking for a divorce.\n\nAt age 11, Danny murdered an elderly woman named Lizzie Parks, smothering her with a pillow before \"play[ing]\" with her deceased body. Based on Tom's testimony in court, Danny was sentenced to be tried as an adult, and served seven years at the Long Garth correctional institute. At the age of 18, Danny was transferred to an adult prison, where he was allegedly harassed and sexually abused.\n\nUpon his release from prison, under the alias Ian Wilkinson, Danny finds it difficult to fit into society.\n\nAs Tom's wife, Lauren plays a small but vital role in the novel. Being unable to conceive by Tom, she feels unsatisfied that she is fulfilling any roles in the marriage. Throughout the novel, we witness the marriage between the two break down due to the couple's inability to conceive a child. Eventually, Lauren feels isolated from Tom, deciding that it is best that she finds another man to achieve her goal of having a child.\n\nDr. Bernard Greene is the headmaster of Long Garth correctional institute, where Danny spent the first seven years of his sentence. Tom visits Dr. Greene to learn some vital clues about Danny's past, though he is slightly disappointed with the result. Tom views Greene as a somewhat self-important man, and he responds with disapproval when Greene forces his wife to answer the front door, when he is in a much better position to do so. His wife describes him as being \"impervious\" to the horrors of the children that he faces each and every day, but this also produces a sense of detachment, and Greene often sees only what he wishes to in people.\n\nThe wife of Bernard Greene, Elspeth Greene also observed Danny for seven years, and also taught him. She offers Tom some insights into Danny's behaviour, labelling him \"a bottomless pit\" who \"hated anything he couldn't control.\"\n\nOne of Danny's English teachers at Long Garth correctional institute. Despite only teaching Danny for one year, it is Angus who most closely approached the root of Danny's emotional distress: his murder of Lizzie Parks. When Danny accuses Angus of sexually harassing him, Angus is quietly let go.\n\nWhen Tom visits Angus during a writer's workshop course that he runs, Angus admits that there was never any sexual contact between himself and Danny.\n\nDanny's parole officer, and a good friend of Tom. Despite declaring that he has no interest in entering a relationship with Martha, by the end of the novel, after Tom's marriage has broken down, he and Martha are together.\n\nThe elderly woman whom Danny was convicted of murdering at age eleven.\n\n\nStephen Molton and Frank Pugliese wrote the screenplay for the 2017 movie adaptation titled \"The Drowning\", directed by Bette Gordon and scored by Anton Sanko. The film stars Avan Jogia as Danny Miller, Josh Charles as Tom Seymour and Julia Stiles as Lauren Seymour. Other cast members include Tracie Thoms, Leo Fitzpatrick and John C McGinley.\n\n"}
{"id": "40421774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40421774", "title": "Cecelia Svinth Carpenter", "text": "Cecelia Svinth Carpenter\n\nHope Cecelia Svinth Carpenter was the first historian to write in depth about the Nisqually people. As a Tacoma, Washington schoolteacher and enrolled member of the Nisqually tribe, when Carpenter discovered that her students' history books provided an inaccurate relation of the history of native people, she began researching and writing the tribe's history to set the record straight.\n\nRelying upon only primary sources and original documents, which took her to distant archival repositories such as the U.S. National Archives in Washington, D.C., and London, England to locate original materials, she authored some 23 books, including:\n\n\nCarpenter's expertise in writing and disseminating the history of the Nisqually people as a record of and supplement to their rich traditional oral history earned her the office of Nisqually tribal historian, chief consultant on Indian history for the permanent exhibit of the Washington State Historical Society, and curator of the society's \"Remembering Medicine Creek\" exhibit at the Washington State History Museum.\n\nDaughter of Hans Svinth, a Danish-born Lutheran pastor, and Mary Svinth, a Nisqually woman, Carpenter was the twelfth of thirteen children raised on a family farm seven miles east of Roy, Washington. At age 17, she married Marvin G. Carpenter and began raising a family. When her children were older, she returned to school and earned her high-school diploma through night school. She went on to earn a bachelor's degree in 1966 and a master's degree at Pacific Lutheran University, and to teach in the public schools for sixteen years in Tacoma at the junior-high and high-school levels. She died June 25, 2010 in Tacoma, Washington, at the age of 85.\n\nCarpenter won many awards during her writing career, including the Washington State Governor's Ethnic Heritage Award in 1990, an honorary Doctor of Humane Letters from the University of Puget Sound in 1993, the Pacific Lutheran University Distinguished Alumnus Award for achievement of professional distinction through sustained dedication and service in 1994, a Murray Morgan award from the Tacoma Historical Society in 1994, and the Award of Merit from the American Association for State and Local History in 2003.\n"}
{"id": "44542304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44542304", "title": "Convergence (comics)", "text": "Convergence (comics)\n\n\"Convergence\" is a weekly comic book storyline published by DC Comics that ran from April 2015 to May 2015. The series consists of an eponymous #0 issue, an eight-issue core miniseries, and 40 two-issue tie-in miniseries. \"Convergence\" continues from the weekly series \"Earth 2: World's End\" and \"\". In the story, Brainiac collects cities and inhabitants from various timelines that have ended and traps them in domes on a planet outside of time and space. He then exposes the domes to one another to see how the characters interact. This event marks the return of DC characters and timelines from before the 2011 \"Flashpoint\" storyline that led to the creation of The New 52 Universe.\n\nIn April 2014, Dan Didio, co-publisher of DC Comics, announced that all weekly comic series that were currently being published, as well as the upcoming \"\" and \"Earth 2: World's End\", would be ending in the last week of March 2015.\nOn November 3, 2014, DC Comics announced the \"Convergence\" miniseries as a conclusion to \"\" and \"Earth 2: World's End\". The miniseries was stated to involve characters from the pre-\"Flashpoint\" universe, including Brainiac, who had gained access to all of DC Comics' current and previous timelines and universes. Brainiac obtained the location of Vanishing Point after torturing Booster Gold in \"Booster Gold: Future's End\" #1. Conceived as a weekly series in April and May 2015, \"Convergence\" began with a #0 issue and ran for an additional eight issues. DC Comics announced that during \"Convergence\" all regular comics would be put on hiatus and replaced with 40 two-part tie-in miniseries. These miniseries featured a variety of characters from throughout DC's publishing history.\n\nThroughout November 2014, DC Comics announced these tie-ins in blocks of 10 on various websites. The titles were written by creators with stories for each character that predated the New 52 versions of characters. Each comic involved different DC characters under Brainiac's domes being forced to contend with the invasion of multiverse characters from pre-\"Flashpoint,\" \",\" Tangent, and pre-\"Crisis on Infinite Earths\" timelines.\n\nThroughout the 20th century, DC Comics re-imagined its staple characters and concepts while acquiring comic book properties from rival publishers. These many properties existed in several alternate timelines that composed the infinite \"DC Comics Multiverse\" full of heroes and villains that fed many DC stories for some time. In 1985, DC chose to simplify its continuity with a crossover story called \"Crisis on Infinite Earths\" where the Multiverse was combined into a single world with one amalgamated history. Subsequent \"crisis\" storylines have seen reality threatened and reshaped again; often these storylines are used by writers as a way of adjusting the fictional history and setting of DC's stories. Stories like this include: \"\" (1994); \"Infinite Crisis\" (2006) which brought back the Multiverse concept with 52 Earths; \"Final Crisis\" (2008); and \"Flashpoint\" (2011) which reset the 52-world Multiverse and began the contemporary setting of DC Comics under the branding \"The New 52.\" \"Convergence\" is the next crisis event after \"Flashpoint\". The Grant Morrison comic book, \"The Multiversity\" (2014–2015), explored the complete meta-history of the Multiverse in further depth and mapped out a majority of its 52 worlds after \"Flashpoint\".\n\nIn the run-up to \"Convergence\", DC published two weekly series, \"Earth 2: Worlds End\" and \"\", that led directly into the crossover story. Additionally, \"Futures End\" \"Booster Gold\" (2014), a one-off comic, depicts the classic Superman villain Brainiac assimilating his parallel counterparts from across the Multiverse after extracting the location of Vanishing Point from time traveling hero Booster Gold. Vanishing Point is a moment at the end of the universe from which all of history, including the history prior to each of DC's crises, can be accessed. From there, Brainiac collects various cities on various worlds prior to those worlds' destruction, but is narrowly defeated by that world's combined heroes and imprisoned.\n\nAfter the events of \"Earth 2: Worlds End\", the heroes of Earth 2—Batman (Thomas Wayne), Superman (Val-Zod), Green Lantern (Alan Scott), and the Flash (Jay Garrick)—find themselves thrust into the desert landscape of planet Telos along with Yolanda Montez who was a former host for the power of the Red (the collective animal life force of Earth 2), and reporter Dick Grayson. They encounter what appears to be Brainiac, whose shape changes from panel to panel to reflect different incarnations of Brainiac; it is later revealed that this character is Telos, an envoy of Brainiac and the living embodiment of the planet who awaits his master's return. Just as their world was about to be destroyed by Darkseid, the Earth 2 heroes, known as the Wonders of the World, were transported to Telos, where Brainiac, who assimilated his incarnations from across the Multiverse, has captured and stored many cities from across the entire history of the Multiverse, spanning various eras of DC Comics' publishing history including many of its popular Elseworlds graphic novels. After skirmishing with the heroes and wondering what purpose his master envisioned for this world, Telos enacts a plan to make the captive heroes and villains of the Multiverse fight each other for supremacy. These battles are shown in various two-part issues during the two-month \"Convergence\" series. \n\nWhile the Earth 2 heroes investigate their setting, Yolanda Montez discovers she has residual animal-like abilities from her time as an avatar of the power of the Red. Batman partners with Dick while investigating the planet and enters a version of Gotham City in search of the Batcave. He enters the pre-\"Flashpoint\" Gotham on the former Earth 0 (the primary setting of DC stories prior to its New 52 relaunch) where Thomas Wayne and pre-\"Flashpoint\" Batman, Bruce Wayne, share an emotional encounter with one another. Bruce lends Thomas his Batmobile, but they are pursued out of the city by Gotham's villains, causing Thomas Wayne to kill himself and many of the villains with an explosive device. Dick Grayson, realizing from what he has seen that in many worlds he is either Batman himself or closely connected with Batman, picks up one of Thomas's batarangs and decides to follow in his footsteps.\n\nAlan Scott uses his powers as an avatar of the Earth to learn that deep within the planet Telos is the preserved world of Skartaris (the setting of \"The Warlord\" comic books) where the heroes encounter Warlord's nemesis Deimos, who promises the heroes he can defeat Telos. The Wonders soon learn that Deimos has systematically captured the Time Masters as well as other powerful time travelers, such as Monarch and Per Degaton. He absorbs their collective power and uses it to summon Brainiac who was imprisoned in a T-sphere during \"\". Deimos banishes Brainiac and then reveals to Telos that he is not the planet incarnate but a mortal who was transformed into a Brainiac-like creature when Brainiac ravaged his homeworld to create a storage world for his captured cities. Telos, in disbelief, vanishes and Deimos declares himself the planet's ruler. Using his near-infinite power, he tells the captives of the planet that he will protect their lives for a price.\n\nAs this is happening, planet Telos manifests physically in DC's contemporary main setting of Earth 0, where Superman, Supergirl, Guy Gardner, the Red Lanterns, Green Lantern Jediah Caul, Captain K'rot, the space-faring Justice League United, and the main Justice League all watch on in amazement. Even all-powerful beings such as Nix Uotan, the guardian of the Multiverse; the evil god Darkseid; and the cosmic being known as Oracle do not fully fathom the events they are witnessing. Meanwhile, on Telos, the Earth 2 heroes encounter and form a team with several pre-\"Flashpoint\" heroes including: Superman, Red Arrow, Batgirl (Stephanie Brown), Donna Troy, and the Flash (Wally West). Superman tells Dick Grayson that he heard his interactions with Telos and that he believes Dick can recruit Telos to assist in challenging Deimos. The two Flashes, Jay and Wally, begin to search Telos for other Flashes; they find the second Flash (Barry Allen) from the Silver Age of comic books and add him to their team. The heroes are soon joined by versions of heroes and villains from comics published in every decade of DC's history and plan to overpower Deimos.\n\nDeimos reveals he has recruited various villains and other misguided DC characters to defend him by giving them their deepest desires. When Yolanda reveals to the villains that they are being used by Deimos who wants them to die to grant him \"the magic of death\" required to remake the Multiverse in his own image, the two teams unite. Telos, convinced by Dick to fight for the heroes, battles with Deimos and weakens him. Deimos is finally destroyed by the Parallax version of Hal Jordan from the \"\" storyline. This inadvertently releases all the energy of the Time Masters into the world which creates an arc of lightning that escapes into space and strikes the omniscient Oracle. As he dies, Oracle explains that the whole of reality is coming apart, as in previous DC crises.\n\nSeeing no other solution, the time traveler Waverider, a pre-\"Flashpoint\" future version of Booster Gold, summons Brainiac back. Brainiac reveals he was the pre-\"Flashpoint\" Brainiac who, after surviving that event, sought to explore the history of the Multiverse, but became mutated by the effects of the previous crises. He realizes what a monster he has become and seeks redemption. He prepares to send everyone back to their universes but is prevented by the damaging effects of the original crisis in \"Crisis on Infinite Earths\". The heroes resolve to change the outcome of that crisis. As Brainiac sends the pre-\"Crisis\" Supergirl and Barry Allen back to meet their fates in the original \"Crisis\" story, pre-\"Flashpoint\" Superman and \"Zero Hour\" Parallax volunteer to go with them, changing the outcome of the crisis. Brainiac explains that this has brought changes to the Multiverse and has caused everything to \"return to what it was before I [Brainiac] brought you here.\" The old worlds of the classic Multiverse live on in both their original versions and the modernized forms depicted in \"The Multiversity\". All worlds and timelines now exist. The Earth 2 team are left behind on the planet, but Telos transports the planet into Earth 2's universe. He appears in the sky to tell the Wonders that he has remembered his real name and where his family is and that the planet will be their New Earth 2. Once again able to channel the power of the Green, Alan terraforms the planet and makes contact with the space fleet carrying the displaced Earth 2 refugees leading them to their new home.\n\nThough the dome came down some time ago, Metropolis is in a state of relative peace and the married Lois Lane and the Superman of Earth-Two are looked up to by many. Even without his powers, Superman is still the hero of Metropolis, and Lois is sure not even the dome can take that away from him. Superman, however, feels guilty that he can't get through the dome and free the city. By losing their powers, he and his cousin Kara have been robbed of their identities. \n\nMeanwhile, in Moscow of , Joseph Stalin is concerned that his people are losing faith in the indestructibility of his regime after the dome has robbed his Superman of his powers. Lex Luthor of Earth-30 takes advantage of this and claims that the dome is the alien's version of a zoo. Wonder Woman of Earth-30 states that the alien's intention is preservation and that there's a chance that every other city on their world was destroyed. Despite this, Lex Luthor still doesn't know how to bring down the dome. He has determined that it's not a dome but a sphere. As a secret CIA agent, he hasn't yet given up on his allegiance to the United States and wonders if Russia is hiding secrets in the other half of that sphere. Despite his allegiances, Lex Luthor of Earth-30 has helped the Russians perfect an invisible jet. Superman of Earth-30 grimly interrupts a conversation between Lex Luthor and Lois Lane of Earth-30 to remind Luthor that he is sure that Luthor intended to steal the technology. He warns Luthor to stop antagonizing Joseph Stalin. Lex Luthor of Earth-30 warns that Stalin should be more concerned about the machinations of his own son Pyotr. Even so, Superman informs him that Stalin will not tolerate any further disrespect, and he will not be able to intervene on his behalf. \n\nBack in Metropolis of Earth-Two, Lois Lane of Earth-Two gets frustrated that Superman of Earth-Two and Power Girl (Supergirl of Earth-Two) are still focusing on the dome surrounding their Metropolis. Superman of Earth-Two agrees to take her home, but Andrew Vinson, Power Girl's boyfriend, is concerned. Moments after Superman of Earth-Two and Lois of Earth-Two are gone, Power Girl and Andrew are startled by a voice coming from beyond the dome. It warns that the dome will soon fall and champions will be chosen from each of the cities on the planet Telos to fight for their city's survival. In Moscow, Wonder Woman of Earth-30 heard the same message.\n\nWhile spending time in the WayneTech Labs in Pre-Crisis Gotham City, Supergirl of Earth-One notices a device which Lucius Fox of Earth-One explains is designed to read her subconscious physical reactions. With it, he hopes that she can help Superman of Earth-One rebuild the Phantom Zone Projector by sensing the correct placement of the parts that she subconsciously remembers from when her father Zor-El and uncle Jor-El built it when she was a girl. Superman of Earth-One hopes that by opening a way to the Phantom Zone, they'll be opening a way out of the dome that fell over Gotham City of Earth-One a year ago. However, the Phantom Zone is filled with Krypton's worst criminals. After the Phantom Zone Projector is recreated, Superman and Supergirl of Earth-One enter, only to be sealed there when the device explodes. Suddenly from beyond the dome, Lucius Fox of Earth-One hears a voice warning that the dome will soon fall and champions will be forced to rise from each of the cities on the planet Telos to fight for the survival of their people. Superman and Supergirl of Earth-One wonder what the purpose of the dome was when they are suddenly overcome by nearby shockwaves and decide to investigate the source. Without warning, the pair is attacked by Phantom Zone prisoners who are eager for revenge. Superman is overpowered and urges Kara to go on without him. Supergirl of Earth-One spots geysers of gas coming from the ground. In the gas, she sees visions of her own past, future, and inevitable death at the hands of the Anti-Monitor. She then realizes if she doesn't go back to Earth, her loved ones will die, but if she goes back, she will die. Determinedly, she decides that if she is to die, it is necessary that she save others doing it. Supergirl gets lost in the gas, losing track of time. Eventually, she realizes that Superman of Earth-One should have been back by now and searches for him. Supergirl discovers that Superman is surrounded by Phantom Zone prisoners. After taking out several of the guards, Supergirl of Earth-One grabs Superman of Earth-One and they escape. While looking for a way out of the Phantom Zone and evading the gases, Superman and Supergirl of Earth-One are again attacked by the Phantom Zone prisoners. Back at Gotham City of Earth-One, Lucius Fox is horrified when the dome goes down and the human-hating apes from Earth-AD march into Gotham City.\n\nAquaman of New Earth has been trapped under the dome with the citizens of Metropolis and protects the people from criminals. His fish-out-of-water status has earned him unwanted media attention, and people are aware that he has become mentally unstable after being separated from his home and losing his hand. After arriving, Aquaman fashioned a spike to replace that hand and used it to defeat Chemo. However, this polluted the harbor, isolating him from the only natural water source left. This forced him to reside in the Metropolis Aquarium and replace the spike attached to his wrist with a hook device. \n\nAt S.T.A.R. Labs, Dr. Dane Dorrance attempts to console Aquaman, noting that many other metahumans lost their abilities under the dome while he was able to retain his Atlantean biology. He has, however, lost his telepathic connection with the fish. While Aquaman admits that this has impacted him, he refuses to talk about it, as talking won't help him get back to Mera. Aquaman then recognizes Dr. Dorrance as a member of the Sea Devils. Dr. Dorrance convinces Aquaman to leave the aquarium and live at S.T.A.R. Labs where he would still be allowed to patrol. While Aquaman showers for hydration, the water suddenly turns off. A voice then announces that the dome will go down and champions must fight for the fate of their cities. \n\nOther metahumans begin to regain their powers including Parallax of New-Earth. The D.E.O. begins tracking Parallax only to be attacked by Deathblow of the Wildstorm Universe. Deathblow then searches for and finds Aquaman.\n\nThe scientists at S.T.A.R. Labs are attacked by a fighter from another city. The scientists turn to Aquaman for insight, and he surmises that the attacker would use the sewers to get in. At that moment, the soldiers in the sewers are slain by Deathblow. Aquaman then engages Deathblow in combat. After injuring Deathblow, Aquaman leads him to the power plant. Deathblow then uses S.T.A.R. Labs' \"Drydock\" contingency plan and activates it to dry Aquaman out. When Aquaman tries to turn on the sprinklers, no water comes out. Deathblow then prepares to kill a weakened Aquaman and taunts him that the nearest ocean is a universe away. Dr. Dorrance recalls that every cell in the human body evolved from cells that had once subsisted in the sea and that the human body is primarily composed of water. Hearing this, Aquaman thrusts his hook into Deathblow's throat and draws strength from the water in the blood pouring from Deathblow's veins. Aquaman's victory causes Wildstorm Universe's San Francisco and Deathblow to vanish. Aquaman of New Earth then goes on patrol to see if any other characters from the other cities will be attacking.\n\nOne year after the dome has surrounded Gotham, Stephanie Brown (Batgirl), Tim Drake, and Cassandra Cain of New-Earth are waiting in the El Inferno desert when they are attacked by Catman of Flashpoint who states that he was transported here while fighting Gorilla Grodd. It is discovered that Batgirl was chosen to fight Catman. In a flashback sequence from when the dome first appeared, it is revealed that Stephanie had quit being Batgirl. Cassandra and Stephanie are living together when the news announces that several of Gotham's champions have been selected to fight the champions of other cities and that the winner of this fight ensures the survival of their city. Batgirl is on the list while Black Bat and Red Robin are not. Stephanie, a year out of shape, begins training with Cassandra. They are interrupted by stampeding Gotham City citizens eager to leave after dome dissolves. Batgirl is then surrounded by a force meant to take her to the contest when Tim and Cass grab on. This transports all three of them to the El Inferno desert. \n\nWhen Gotham City of Flashpoint was placed under a dome, Gorilla Grodd was locked up in a zoo after losing his powers. When the dome dissolved, Grodd began fighting Catman until they were both transported to the El Inferno desert. Black Bat fights Gorilla Grodd and begins losing as Batgirl begs for Grodd to fight her instead. Grodd states that he doesn't need to choose; he just needs to kill them all. Batgirl breaks free from Gorilla Grodd's grasp by ripping some hair from his head. Red Robin is under Grodd's control, so Batgirl knocks him out. Batgirl proposes to Catman that they throw the fight so at least one of their cities will be saved. Catman informs Batgirl that Grodd has killed everyone he loves back in his world so he should at least help her save Gotham. Catman allows Batgirl to hit him, losing the fight and allowing Gotham's heroes to return to Gotham of New Earth.\n\nTrapped underneath a dome in Metropolis, Bruce Wayne of Pre-Zero Hour attempts to get through the criminal underworld and even offers his fortune to Tobias Whale of New Earth. To prove Bruce Wayne worthy, Tobias Whale sends one of his underlings, Jean-Paul Valley, who warns Bruce that, with his broken back, he won't be able to defend himself. Bruce explains that he was drawn to Metropolis after the transformation of Green Lantern into Parallax and ended up trapped beneath the dome. \n\nAt this point, Tobias Whale was close to controlling food distribution. Bruce Wayne was opposed to this, and Jean-Paul was plotting an inside job to stop Tobias. Although Jean-Paul is reluctant, the two become uneasy allies. To convince Tobias that he did his job, however, Jean-Paul has to beat Bruce quite brutally and bring Bruce to Tobias Whale who remains unconvinced. Tobias Whale suggests that Bruce can prove himself if he uses his political pull to learn the route used to transport food to distribution services which changes with every transport. \n\nAt Metropolis City Hall, Bruce and Jean-Paul pay a visit to councilman Erasmus Hall in an attempt to learn the route. Jean-Paul's methods are cruel, but the two learn the route and deliver it to Whale. Whale then has his people kill Hall and make it look like a suicide. Bruce has to keep his cool as news coverage shows Hall's wife and children grieving him. Two days later, Bruce Wayne and Jean-Paul Valley await the food distribution in their batsuits. When they both leap onto the truck, Tobias Whale's SUV pulls up in front of it. As Bruce prevents Jean-Paul from killing Tobias Whale's henchman Nikka, a voice is heard stating that the dome will fall as the champions from the other areas will need to fight for their survival. Jean-Paul knocks out Tobias Whale and beings from another world are shown watching the action.\n\nPre-Flashpoint Poison Ivy is defending Robinson Park from Penguin, Man-Bat, Mr. Freeze, Black Mask, and Killer Croc who want control over it because the park is cultivated to feed the domed Gotham City. When Penguin tries to have Man-Bat physically remove Poison Ivy from the park, Batman and Damian Wayne as Robin show up. The heroes, assisted by Red Hood and Scarlet, succeed in driving the villains from the park, and Poison Ivy thanks Batman and the others for their help. \n\nBack at the Batcave, Damien is displeased with his father's welcoming attitude toward Jason Todd returning as vigilante Red Hood in Gotham. Batman assures him that Jason is no replacement for Robin and certainly no replacement for his son. Angrily, Damien reminds Batman that the two of them have been protecting Gotham alone for more than a year and is angry that, as soon as Jason showed up, Bruce acted like Jason was part of the family. Damian removes his costume and storms off. \n\nWhile in his study, Bruce sees the bat-signal and tells Alfred to find Damian. Alfred responds that Damian has left with one of the Batmobiles. Suddenly, a voice from beyond the dome announces that the barrier around the city will soon fall and that champions from within the city must fight for its survival against the champions of another city. Batman informs the others that he won't be forced into combat like this. They will find another way. However, they don't have a choice as the Extremists have already arrived to challenge them.\n\nSince the dome came down around the Hub City of Earth-Four, the authorities have been taking weapons away from its citizens. Vic Sage (Question) of Earth-Four reports on this as a group of protesters called the Madmen face the National Guardsmen led by Captain Allen Adam. Question insists Adam justify his actions. Adam explains that, by fooling people into thinking they have a choice, Question is actually the one responsible for what happened today. Question responds with a message for Allen—Ted Kord needs Captain Atom's help. \n\nTed has been working on a device that could possibly shatter the dome. When Allen Adam arrives, Ted's device is activated, shooting a hole in the dome but does not bring it down. Ted considers putting on his Blue Beetle outfit, but Allen Adam warns that costumed superhero work is still illegal. Strange lights appear in the sky, and when Allan Adam recognizes the energy signature, he flies up to investigate. Allan Adam finds Doctor Spectro investigating the incident that returned his powers as well. They are interrupted by Booster Gold of New Earth who Allan Adam attacks after assuming he is with Doctor Spectro. Ted in his Blue Beetle uniform arrives just in time to see Booster Gold of New-Earth disappear along with everyone's powers. However, Blue Beetle's choice to save Allan Adam results in Spectro falling with no one to catch him. The Question suggests that their powers returned as a result of someone from outside the dome coming in and that they should pursue that theory instead of finding a way out. Suddenly, the building beneath them shudders and transforms into the form of a humanoid which speaks and warns that the dome will soon fall. When it does, champions from each of the many domed cities on the planet's surface will have to rise and fight for their home's survival. Within moments, the dome falls and the heroes of Hub City must wait to discover what that means for them.\n\nIn a memory of District Gotham (AD 2462), Booster Gold invades a lab to steal a machine called the SKS. Guards shoot the machine, triggering it. In the present he is confronted by Skeets and Rip Hunter, who are looking for the other Booster Gold (A.R.G.U.S.). They free him and he finds out that he was imprisoned in the underground city of Skartaris' Castle Deimos, along with all the other time travelers, by Deimos. Rip reveals that someone is looking for Vanishing Point. Booster reveals that he told them about it, to protect Michelle, Rip's aunt. They descend to the basement, where the other time travelers are kept. They free Michelle and Gold (leaving Per Degaton imprisoned), and Rip reveals that he is Gold's son. Gold is dying from chronal energy accumulated while traveling from city to city. Just then Gold vanishes, having become unstuck in time. \n\nDeimos and his lizard men appear, being fought by Machiste. They fight and escape through a tunnel and Booster flies them up above the surface. Skeets explains that Bold's chronal signature is being overwhelmed by the chronal energy in his body, resulting in his bouncing from city to city. They locate him in a city from the 31st century and fight the Legion of Super-Heroes. Gold vanishes and reappears in a city with Metropolis and Blue Beetle of DC Rebirth and warns him not to trust Max Lord. Then he collapses. Beetle takes him aloft in his Scarab.\n\nMeanwhile, Rip, Booster, and Michelle are confronted by the Legion, who have regained their powers. Rip warps them 45 minutes into the cities' future and they leave. With Kord, Gold has begun to visibly age. Rip, Booster, and Michelle break into Kord's building to find Gold on the point of collapse. They take him to Vanishing Point, which has been trashed by Brainiac. They take him to the Vault, where he is revitalized as Waverider. Waverider sends Kord back to his city and returns Booster and Skeets to their time. He puts Rip and Michelle in an unspecified place and departs.\n\nThe Crime Syndicate of Earth-Three, while criminals, don't intend to hurt anybody. However, the death of Bruno Mannheim of Earth-Three is on their hands, and Superwoman has been wrongly imprisoned for his death for one year. Despite the lack of their powers, Ultraman, Owlman, Power Ring, and Johnny Quick don their costumes and plan to free Superwoman who is now on death row. \n\nMeanwhile, in the Metropolis of the 853rd century, the Luthorians have taken over the infrastructure of the entire city and the Justice Legion is running out of places to hide. Batman asks how many more must die before they take proactive measures, but while Superman is reminding Batman that they are not killers, his words are cut short by an explosion. Atom of the Justice Legion is killed in the blast, and the Luthorian Elite Guard are coming. Superman looks around and sees that Batman is missing. \n\nThe Crime Syndicate race to death row but are stopped mid-way by the Rogue Hunters. Rather than be taken alive, the men open gunfire and charge ahead. The distraction is just enough to rob them of their chance to save Superwoman and the switch on the electric chair is thrown. \n\nBack in the 853rd-century Metropolis, Batman evades a group of Luthorians, knowing that Lincoln Luthor can't be far behind which means Batman will finally have an opportunity to see him dead. As Ultraman, Owlman, Power Ring, and Johnny Quick are shackled and led away by the Rogue Hunters, they are startled by a voice from beyond the dome. It warns that the dome will soon fall and champions from all of the cities across the planet Telos will have to rise and fight for the survival of their people and their home. As the dome falls around Earth-Three's Metropolis, the Crime Syndicate's powers return; they turn on their captors to ensure they pay for killing Superwoman. Before they can have their revenge, they are mysteriously transported away. \n\nDespite being given the power to fight the Luthorians again, Batman warns Superman that they might have to wait. The voice from beyond had spoken of a battle and they likely have little chance of avoiding that fight. Shortly after this exchange, the two are transported away. They all materialize in different parts of 853rd-century Metropolis. Superman then wonders how he's supposed to fight for the survival of his city if it means the death of another. He intends to find a way to avoid a battle altogether. Just then, the Superman of the Justice Legion finds himself taken by surprise when Ultraman attacks him.\n\nPre-Zero Hour Catwoman has arrived in Metropolis to find that the owner of a diamond necklace she had intended on stealing has been targeted for kidnap. She thwarts the kidnapping but fails to get the necklace before security arrives. Moments after making her escape, a dome appears around the city, effectively cutting it off from the rest of the world.\n\nOne year later, Catwoman is now the protector of Suicide Slum and defeats a gang of murderous mercenaries. Bruno Mannheim has now taken over of much of the city by gaining control of the distribution of medical supplies and food. To maintain his monopoly on medicine, Mannheim kidnaps various scientists and chemists including a friend of Selina's named Sally. Using an EMP grenade, Catwoman breaks in, locates Sally, and they escape. While on a nearby roof, they hear a voice from beyond the dome claiming that the dome will soon fall and that challengers from the different domed cities will have to fight each other for the survival of their home and people.\n\nNot long after the announcement, Kingdom Come Batman appears to challenge her, but Catwoman does not recognize him as this Batman wears a suit of armor and is older. \n\nCatwoman's main objective is getting Sally to safety, but Intergang catches up, finds Batman on the roof with her, and assumes correctly that he's been sent to fight for the survival of Kingdom Come Gotham City over Pre-Zero Hour Metropolis. Selina grabs Sally and leaps off the roof, leaving Batman to fight Intergang. Once Sally is safe, Catwoman returns to face Batman, who now realizes that he is not on Kingdom Come Earth.\n\nCatwoman hurls an EMP device at Batman, causing the electronics in his suit to shut down and sends him crashing to the ground. Dodging out of his way, she lets him skid across the roof and over the edge onto the street pavement. She leaps down onto his chest and pins him while he waits for his suit to boot up. He explains that they are from different worlds and demands to know what kind of person she is. Coyly, she chooses not to take the question seriously, so he accuses her of being a thief like his Catwoman. Selina responds that, while she does enjoy cat burglary, she has been acting as protector of Suicide Slum. Catwoman assumes from what she knows of her own Batman that this one won't simply trust the words of their captor Telos, and he admits that he does not take orders from anyone. Despite that, it may be optimistic to believe that they were paired together for a reason and that they can unite in taking down their captor. At least, that's what Bruno Mannheim thinks. He and Intergang have come to ensure that Catwoman wins. Batman shields her from their bullets and warns her to wait for his signal to bring the fight to them.\n\nWith a blinding flash of light, Batman disorients Intergang, and he and Catwoman attack. When Catwoman corners Mannheim, she discovers that he is wearing an indestructible Apokoliptian-made jacket. He knocks her aside, declaring himself the protector of Metropolis. With his superior strength, Mannheim pins Batman to the ground and tears open his armor. This distraction allows Catwoman to kick the power-source for his jacket off his back, destroying it and rendering him powerless against Batman's retaliation. Despite Batman helping to take out Mannheim, the people of Metropolis are no less convinced that the invader from another city has to die. They heard the voice too, and it told them that one of them must fall for the city to survive.\n\nA sudden earthquake startles one of the citizens, and he fires a shot at Batman's exposed chest. Rather than let Batman be killed, Catwoman jumps in front of him, taking the bullet. Knowing she won't survive, she begs Batman to try to save both cities. He promises he will try.\n\nHarley Quinn is at the Gotham Museum of Art to steal a bejeweled hyena skull. Her henchmen are less interested than she is, and things start to go awry quickly. The police arrive and shoot one of her least helpful hirelings. As she tries to hurry the men in getting the skull for her, Bud and Lou begin signaling that a dome was forming over their city.\n\nSometime later, Harley visits her psychiatrist, Dr. Elstree, to discuss how she's been doing lately. He admits that he gave up his office to a Victims of the Dome support group, and they are now forced to meet in the atrium. She lies and says that she doesn't hallucinate the Joker's presence anymore and admits that, ever since the dome came down, she has been feeling somewhat optimistic, unlike most people. For her, the sudden rescue of Gotham City from some untold destruction proves that there is a higher power beyond the dome. Since the dome event, Harley has actually been reaching out to the community, specifically Officer Louie D'Anna, whom she had nearly killed during her botched robbery. Dr. Elstree arranged for her to meet him as a means of trying to make her develop some empathy for her victims so Harley could confront the damage that she did. \n\nHarley returns to the home she shares with Louie while hallucinating the goldfish from Dr. Elstree's office was swimming between her fingers as she began cutting vegetables for dinner. Suddenly, the Joker's face appears behind her, and she is so shaken that she falls on the floor screaming for Louie. He rushes to her side and comforts her, explaining that there's nobody there but them. Happily, she kisses him and pins him to the couch.\n\nElsewhere in Gotham, a powerless Poison Ivy is having difficulty fighting off a gang of thieves from one of her vegetable gardens. Fortunately, Catwoman comes to her aid. After helping her take down the thugs, they are all startled by a rumbling voice from beyond the dome. The voice warns that the dome will soon fall and champions from this world and those in the other domes will have to fight to determine which city will survive.\n\nStrangely, it appears he's selected Harley Quinn as this city's champion to fight a cartoon rabbit from one of the other domes. Neither Catwoman nor Ivy feels this bodes well for their continued existence. Hurriedly, the pair storm into her apartment, and despite Louie's protest, they both agree that there is only one way to make this work. They need to get the crazy Harley back. Ivy injects her with a toxin to counteract the mood stabilizers in her body, but Louie warns that Harley had been off her meds for months already. Nervously, they wait to see which Harley will wake up for them. When she does come to, Harley Quinn is crazier than ever.\n\nCaptain Carrot has been selected as the champion for his city of Follywood, Califurnia. He has been transported to his opponent's home city without any knowledge about whom he has to face. For that reason, Alley-Kat-Abra sends Pig-Iron after him to warn that the opponent he will face is a loon. Harley Quinn finds Pig-Iron first. Using the oil that had lubricated Pig-Iron's mechanical parts, she leaves a message for Captain Carrot: It's rabbit season. When he discovers it, Captain Carrot promises that his old friend will be avenged.\nAn hour earlier, Captain Carrot had encountered Harley who had gotten to the amusement park early. When he expressed no desire to fight her, she claimed that she had a great many superpowers and swung her mallet at him, claiming it was magic. The force of her strike against the ground caused the explosives she had hidden earlier to go off, knocking Captain Carrot down. Sensing that he was in danger, Alley-Kat-Abra searched the minds of Gotham City for any clue that could help him.\n\nShe discovered a conversation between Catwoman, Poison Ivy, and Harley's boyfriend Louie who admitted that he'd been feeling sick with fear ever since he saw Harley in costume again. He explained that he had forgotten what it was like to be in the field as a cop with costumes involved and that Harley was one of the most dangerous and insane costumed criminals. Louie went on to explain that when he saw Harley out of costume for the first time and she came to visit him in the hospital, he'd stopped being afraid of her and became afraid for her. He believed in the power of rehabilitation and hoped she would be able to beat whomever she was set against. Worriedly, Alley-Kat-Abra relayed this information to Captain Carrot.\n\nWhen Harley had encountered Pig-Iron, she hadn't actually killed him; it was Brainiac's drones who discovered him as an intruder and transported him away, leaving only a pool of oil behind. Since Captain Carrot is angry over what he believes to be the death of his friend, he is even more determined to defeat Harley, who is now on one of the park's roller-coasters. Angrily, he smashes her mallet, and when it gives her a splinter, she claims her blood contains acid and flicks it at him, causing him to recoil. He recovers in time to see that the ride is about to go off the rails. Worriedly, he begs her to use the teleportation abilities she claimed to have. However, neither of them can fly or teleport, and they crash.\n\nBoth survive, and Harley admits that she had only been joking about killing Pig-Iron. She offers him a carrot as a snack, and he must admit they are very good. Harley explains that her friend the gardener had grown them and had given her an immunity to poisons. Hearing this, he spits out the carrot, as Harley continues rambling on, and he begins to feel more nauseated. Harley has beaten him using her wits.\n\nSometime later, Louie receives a visitor at his apartment where he now lives alone. Catwoman stands there, holding up the goldfish Harley had won at the amusement park before the battle and admits that Harley wouldn't trust anyone else with it. He asks about Harley, and Selina softens, explaining that Harley is still a bit too manic to be around people. As she leaves, he calls after her that he is not people.\n\nSelina reunites with Harley and Ivy, who are preparing to leave the city now that the dome is down and the heroes are back. As the van drives off, Louie remains behind in his apartment, staring at the goldfish, depressed; he knows that he's probably lost Harley forever.\n\nPlastic Man and the Freedom Fighters (Uncle Sam, Doll Man, Human Bomb, The Ray, Black Condor, and Phantom Lady) of Earth-X are trapped in their dome with the Silver Ghost, whom they had lured to New York City. When the dome comes down after a year, they reluctantly combine forces to fight the killer robots of . Despite their differences, they work together to find and destroy the controlling intelligence and the robots shut down. Silver Ghost and Plastic Man squabble over the final robots' blueprints, ending with Silver Ghost getting them and being destroyed in the final explosion.\n\nBilly Batson is working as a radio announcer for WHIZ Radio in Fawcett City on Earth-5 when a man in the crowd, distraught over the failure of Captain Marvel to appear and help the captive city, tries to blow himself up. They are saved by the Bullets (Bulletman and Bulletgirl), who pull him into the sky where he explodes harmlessly. Billy, Freddy Freeman, and Mary Marvel later follow Sterling Morris and Uncle Dudley, who have been acting suspiciously. They go into the subway, but are surprised and caught by a reborn Mister Atom. Atom takes them into a tunnel where King Kull is working on a machine. Morris and Uncle Dudley appear. Uncle Dudley uses a holographic field to reveal their true identities, Doctor Sivana and Ibac. They were part of a plan (with Oggar) to infiltrate the Marvels but were trapped in those forms when the dome went up. \n\nIn the cells, they find the real Morris and Uncle Dudley in chains. Just then, Tawny appears. He dodges a ray from Sivana and Mary knocks the gun from Sivana's hands. Billy is about to use it when Kull and Atom appear with their own rayguns. Atom reveals that the dome is down and Billy transforms into Captain Marvel. Mary and Freddy also transform, as do Sivana and Ibac. They fight, but then the building collapses, crushing Atom, Kull, Sivana and Ibac. The collapse also reveals that Fawcett City is being attacked by zeppelins.\n\nThe Bullets are saved by Marvel, who goes off to investigate the other city. There, he is attacked by the Batman of Gotham by Gaslight (Earth-1889) with a flame weapon. Then he is electrocuted with a massive charge that triggers a confused state where Billy and Captain Marvel converse. Then Batman's aero-ship is pulled away by some force along with other metal objects. A force dome stops them from progressing further, so they go into the sewers where they meet a controlled Killer Croc. Inside the Gotham Exhibition Hall, they meet a rebodied Captain Atom who has used the project he was working on, the Machinovirus, to rebuild himself and the Monster Society Of Evil with Gotham by Gaslight's villains. As he emerges from the ruins of the exhibition hall, the Marvels, Tawny, and the Bullets attack. \n\nCaptain Marvel figures out that Mister Atom is just a suit of armor, protecting Mr. Mind. Discovered, Mr. Mind self-destructs the Mister Atom suit. Gotham goes away and the Marvels and their allies fly off into the sky.\n\nHaving started out as a sidekick to a Flash, Wally West now holds the role and has two sidekicks of his own, his children Jai and Iris. They inherited his connection to the Speed Force, which binds them together in a literal sense. Against his wife Linda's warnings, he has brought the kids along on a potential combat mission, knowing that their powers are still unstable. He rationalizes it by thinking that leaving the kids at home would make them easy prey for his enemies.\n\nWally and the kids arrive at their destination—what the JLA alert calls a \"chronal disturbance\". They speed all the way to Gotham City from Keystone City to investigate it. There is something familiar about this disturbance; Wally senses the energy signature of Barry Allen coming from it, which shouldn't be possible. As soon as they get within a short distance of the disturbance, a dome forms around Gotham City, cutting it off from the rest of the planet.\n\nAfter nearly a year, Wally is still trying to get free and has continuously regretted bringing Jai and Iris with him. Like every other super-human who was trapped under the dome, they lost their powers, and people are beginning to suspect that the former Flash is starting to lose his mind. Wally hasn't moved at a human pace since before he got powers, but he still jogs everywhere trying to stay in shape for Linda's sake. He knows she's surely been wondering if he and the kids are alive for the past year. He'd gone to both Batman and the Atom for help getting home, but they couldn't do any more than he could against the impenetrable dome. Eventually, they stopped trying, but Wally is fixated.\n\nAfter spending all night attempting to escape the dome, Wally returns home to his kids, who are late for school. Jai senses why his father is so determined and assures him that he misses Linda too. Sadly, Wally hugs him and mourns the fact that he didn't listen to her when she'd warned him not to take them on the mission.\n\nSuddenly, a voice from beyond the dome rings out over the city, warning that the dome would soon be removed and champions from this and other cities would be forced to fight for the right to exist. As the dome recedes, Wally and his children are immediately re-empowered. Hopefully, the children wonder if this means that they will be able to go home. Wally doesn't know and is more concerned that he will be forced into battle against champions from other worlds. He determines first to go and provide aid to the people dressed like Old West heroes who are being ambushed by a Hawkman and Hawkwoman. In the meantime, he orders Jai and Iris to stay inside and remain there until he comes back. They make him promise to come back.\n\nBy the time he arrives in El Inferno, Wally is too late. The voice of the planet Telos warns that the Justice Riders have fallen to the Hawkmen, and the Justice Riders' city no longer has a place on Telos' surface. The voice warns that this should be a lesson to him. If he refuses to fight, he and Gotham will face the same fate as El Inferno. Before Wally's eyes, the city and its citizens begin to crumble to dust. Horrified, he wonders if this is the fate that awaits his children. \n\nHaving lost track of where their Gotham is, Wally asks them to keep an eye out as they run from city to city looking for home. Every city they pass through appears to be at war with another city. It makes him worry that they won't be the ones to survive even if they fight for it. As they speed along, they begin to sense an unfamiliar energy signature in the Speed Force, and its owner appears to be gaining on them. Hurriedly, Wally gets them to their Gotham but stops once within city limits, assuring the children that they will stand and fight whoever has been chasing them. When he turns around, he doesn't see anyone he might have expected.\n\nFastback, a speedster turtle from Follywood, Califurnia, catches up with them. He explains that he isn't looking for a fight; he's looking for help. When he saw Wally speed through his city, he realized that there might be other speedsters out there and hoped that they could all team up to fight whoever forced them into this situation. Wally is interested, but they are prevented from talking further by the arrival of another time's Wonder Woman who has brought an army of Amazons to fight for her city's survival.\n\nMetropolis has spent a year under an impenetrable dome, and Dubbilex has spent that time trying to restore Superboy's powers and break through the dome. He has had no success with either goal. Dubbilex realizes that the dome itself is inhibiting Superboy's power. Superboy is worried as he knows that the responsibility of protecting Metropolis will fall to him in Superman's absence. Metropolis had just begun to accept Superboy when the dome appeared. He had been arrogant at first, but just as he started to accept the responsibility of the power he held, those powers were taken away from him. That loss has made him feel lost himself. \n\nDejected after another failure to restore his powers in the lab, Superboy visits the Superman statue in Centennial Park where an elderly couple approaches him, explaining that they were saved from Parasite by Superman. While feeling like he is living in Superman's shadow, Superboy hears a voice ring out from beyond the dome warning that it will soon disappear and champions from other cities on the planet Telos will be made to fight for the survival of their homes. As the dome comes down, Kon feels his powers returning. Filled with joy, he tears open his shirt to reveal his Superboy costume, unaware that he is being watched by the Red Robin of another world.\n\nWhile flying over Metropolis, Superboy spots a streak that resembles the Flash, but upon closer inspection, he doesn't recognize this Flash's costume. He follows the streak to Hell's Gate Island, which was cut in half by the dome and left largely uninhabitable. While monitoring Superboy, Dubbilex realizes that Superboy would only be led there as a trap. Following the streak into an abandoned building, Superboy is caught in a blast of kryptonite gas and attacked by Red Robin. Eventually, the gas wears off and Superboy retaliates with his tactile telekinesis. When the Flash rescues Red Robin from his fall, Superboy is forced to ask who they are.\n\nDubbilex determines that Red Robin is Dick Grayson. However, he appears to be fifteen years older, suggesting that both he and the Flash are not the versions of themselves that Superboy knows. They are the heroes of an alternate Earth. The Superman of another world then intervenes and warns Superboy that if he intends to save two versions of Metropolis, he'd best surrender.\n\nSince the dome came down, Lex Luthor has been somewhat depressed that he no longer needs to plot Superman's demise. He has been carrying around a device for the whole year that he's been trapped and hoping it would signal a change in the integrity of the dome. Today, sitting in Centennial Park with his reluctant friend Matrix, it finally reactivates as a voice rings out above the dome warning of the dome's imminent disappearance and a need for the city's champions to fight for the city's survival.\n\nExcited but nervous, Lex has Matrix fly him to his lab, where he searches for a way to ensure that they can leave the planet on which they've been imprisoned. He hopes to discover the technology that brought them to this planet. Handing Matrix a device, he orders her to use it to track the energy source of the teleportation technology that captured them and bring it to him before one of these other cities' challengers defeats her.\n\nMeanwhile, in The Verge, Lady Quark and Lord Volt observe the citizens of their opponent city and feel unsympathetic toward them. Soon, they spot Supergirl and accost her. Their bickering proves a useful distraction, allowing her to return from her mission of finding the energy source. Unfortunately, the device Lex gave her doesn't seem to be working. By the time it does start making noises, Quark and Volt are back promising that they're ready for her, but she has to follow the signal. They warn that she'll have to go through them, and seeing no other way, she punches Lord Volt in the face. In response, Lady Quark damages the device, further frustrating Supergirl who telekinetically knocks her across the city.\n\nFortunately, the device begins working again, and Supergirl follows it until Lex's voice comes through it, berating her. Angrily, she drops the device, letting it smash and realizing too late that she's just destroyed the only hope of getting off the planet. Determined to get Lex off of her back, she wonders if other cities will give her sanctuary. A nearby voice warns that she shouldn't bet on it. Turning, Supergirl sees Ambush Bug, and admits that she's glad to see him.\n\nFollowing one year without having his powers, Superman is patrolling the streets of Gotham City in a black outfit with his face covered while his wife Lois Lane is on the cusp of giving birth to their child.\n\nEvery morning, Barry Allen wakes to find that his wife Iris is not with him and remembers, once again, that he has been trapped. All of Gotham City has been trapped within a dome for the better part of a year, Barry has been robbed of his super-speed by the dome.\n\nHe had come back to Gotham from his home in the 31st Century to appear at a paralympics event when the dome appeared. He has been trying to find a way out every day, but with every metahuman's abilities gone, it seems impossible. It puzzles Barry how well the people of Gotham have adapted to their new state of affairs. He still runs, hoping that one day he'll run fast enough to access the Speed Force again. A beeping of his pager prompts him to stop running and call in from a pay phone. Some lab results are back at Gotham Central, and he has to be at work.\n\nHe managed to get a job with the Central City Police Department's crime lab and he's been paired with Josie Leighton as his chief lab assistant for the last six months. Barry is fond of her—maybe too fond of her. She's fond of him, and he knows it, but Iris is never far from his mind. In another life, maybe he would take her up on her offers to go out for coffee together. Still, he can't help but worry that this is another life and he might as well start living it. Barry joins Bruce Wayne for coffee in her place, expressing his worries about just how doomed their efforts to escape the dome are. Bruce suggests that he think on this challenge less like a sprint and more like a marathon.\n\nAs Barry cabs back to work, he and his driver sense a tension in the air that is unexpected and unusual. Receiving another page, he exits the cab to make a call back to Josie, who warns of an urgent crime scene investigation where he's needed. Seeing traffic piling up, he pays off the driver and decides to walk the eight blocks to the scene. However, he is surprised when he sees that the dome has disappeared. A voice then rings out a warning that, with the dome gone, champions must rise up from all of the cities on the planet Telos' surface and fight for the survival of their homes. Barry runs to find Bruce and tell him what he heard, but as he runs, he feels himself getting faster and faster. His connection with Speed Force is back. Gleefully, he opens his ring and dons his uniform as The Flash.\n\nClimbing to a high vantage point on the edge of Gotham, Barry realizes with horror that this isn't Earth at all and there are other cities out there. Worriedly, he calls out to the voice he heard earlier begging to know who it was and what he meant. Knowing that he is one of the champions, he calls out that he's ready. A challenger from another city answers him admitting that, while he is not eager to fight, they are supposed to. He too has only just got his powers back. Barry's prospective opponent believes that he is Superman.\n\n\"Convergence\" would end The New 52 branding. However, the continuity established by The New 52 would continue. Beginning June 3, 2015, and lasting throughout July, the DC Comics line of comic books consisted of 24 new series that began at issue one. Alongside the new additions, the company continued publishing 25 of their existing ongoing titles, all of which maintained their current numbering and storylines. After the announcement of the overhaul of DC Comics' publishing line, Dan DiDio compared the company's plans for post-\"Convergence\" stories to the \"One Year Later\" storylines that followed \"Infinite Crisis\" in 2006. Didio stated that \"In terms of expectations and challenges, the lessons learned in the 'One Year Later jump' were applied to insure [sic] our June series (hopefully) don't experience some of the same pitfalls.\"\n\nIn May 2015, online retailers began listing collections of \"Convergence\" and its miniseries to arrive in October 2015:\n\n"}
{"id": "7037250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7037250", "title": "Culture of Belize", "text": "Culture of Belize\n\nThe Belizean culture abisai is a mix of influences and people from Kriol, Maya, Garinagu (also known as Garifuna), Mestizo (a mixture of Spanish and Native Americans), Mennonites who are of German descent, with a blend of many other cultures from Chinese to Lebanese. It is a unique blend that emerged through the country's long and occasionally violent history.\n\nCourtesy is important to most Belizeans. It is not uncommon for Belizeans to greet each other on the street even if they have never seen each other before, or for acquaintances to spend minutes at a time chatting, oblivious to what is happening around them. Another aspect of the culture is the idea of the mystical healing and Obeah. However, there is still talk of evil shaman practices like putting \"Obeah\" on certain houses. This is known to be done by burying a bottle with the 'evil' under a tree close by the house.\n\nIn Belizean folklore, we find the legends of La Llorona, Cadejo, the Tata Duende, and X'tabai.\n\nBelizean marriages are commonly celebrated with church weddings and colorful receptions featuring food, drink and dance. An increasing number of Belizean families are headed by single parents, especially mothers. Due to this trend, many of the present-day youths decline to pursue marriage and get involved in common law relationships with their partners. It is not common to encounter youths living with their parents around the age of 20 or above.\n\nAs a consequence of this trend, the most common family structure in Belize is the single-parent family. Moreover, grandparents are frequently involved in raising children, with or without the help of one of the parents. Most Belizean families either own or rent some type of house, typically wooden or concrete, and built to withstand minor fires and floods. However, when the hurricane seasons come around, most people will evacuate.\n\nBelizeans of all ethnicities eat a wide variety of foods. Breakfast consists of bread, flour tortillas, journey (johnny in Creole) cakes, or fry jacks that are often homemade. It is eaten with various cheeses (Dutch cheese, band back cheese, craft cheese, etc.) refried beans, various forms of eggs or cereal (corn flakes, oatmeal) sweetened with condensed milk. Morning beverages include milk, coffee, tea, Milo, Ovaltine, Cocoa, orange juice (fresh or concentrated). Eating breakfast is called \"drinking tea.\"\n\nMidday meals vary, from lighter foods like beans and rice with or without coconut milk, tamales, panades, (fried maize (corn) shells with beans or fish) and meat pies, escabeche (onion soup), chilmole (black soup made with black recardo), stew chicken and garnaches (fried tortillas with beans, cheese, and cabbage sauce) to various constituted dinners featuring some type of rice and beans, meat and salad or coleslaw.\n\nIn the rural areas meals may be more simplified than in the cities. The Maya use recardo, corn or maize for most of their meals, and the Garifuna are fond of fish and other seafood, cassava (particularly made into hudut) and vegetables. Local fruits and certain vegetables are quite common. Mealtime is a communion for families and schools and some businesses close at midday for lunch, reopening later in the afternoon.\n\nBelizeans are informal and friendly in greeting one another; it is considered rude not to greet even a slight acquaintance, the clerk or receptionist when entering a place of business. It is, however, considered impolite to greet by first names, (\"gial\", and \"bwai\" are common and acceptable) unless one has already established a relationship of some depth (you have had one or more conversations together). A simple nod of the head or shouting is acceptable when passing someone on the street, and acquaintances might also be greeted with any number of introductory phrases as covered here:\n\n\nOther acceptable greetings are handshakes, combinations of palms and fingers touching, thumbs locking and slaps on the back, or even a kiss on the cheek for someone to show great appreciation and trust. Formal situations call for use of titles and surnames, and children are expected to address their elders with Miss/Mister and answer “Yes, ma’am” or “No, sir” when asked questions but often do not.\n\nSince the late introduction of television in 1980, visiting with friends is not as common as it used to be. When such a visit does occur Belizeans generally take care to make even unexpected guests feel at home. However, arranged visits are more commonly practiced, arriving without previous notice to a friend’s home may be seen as impolite or dangerous.\n\nThe most popular sports are soccer and basketball, and there is enthusiastic support for league teams formed since the early 1990s. Other sports enjoyed in Belize include volleyball, track and field, cricket, jai-alai, boxing, cycling, and softball, which all have established associations. Catching on in recent years are triathlon, canoeing, chess, darts, billiards, martial arts, and even ice hockey (in the Western Cayo District among the Mennonite population). An international cross-country cycling race is held every Easter weekend. Belize has the world's second largest barrier reef and hundreds of small islands, called cayes, that are popular recreation areas for urban people, particularly during school vacations and Easter.\n\nPunta is by the far most popular genre of Garifuna music and has become the most popular genre in all of Belize. It is distinctly Afro-Caribbean, and is sometimes said to be ready for international popularization like similarly-descended styles (reggae, calypso, merengue, etc.). Established stars include Andy Palacio, Herman \"Chico\" Ramos, \"Mohobub\" Flores, Adrian \"The Doc\" Martinez, and Lindsford \"Supa G\" Martinez. A slower, more melodic variant, known as Paranda, has been catching on recently behind the talents of Honduras' Aurelio Martinez and Paul Nabor of Punta Gorda; Nabor's signature track \"Naguya Nei\" is considered the informal popular anthem of the Garifuna nation.\n\nBrukdown is a very popular modern style of Belizean music related to Calypso. It evolved out of the music and dance of loggers, especially a form called buru. Its greatest proponents include Wilfred Peters and Gerald \"Lord\" Rhaburn of Belize City and Leela Vernon of Punta Gorda.\n\nReggae, Dancehall, and Soca imported from Jamaica and the rest of the West Indies, and Rap, Hip-Hop, heavy metal and rock music from the United States, are also popular among the youth of Belize. Belize's recording industry turns out a few CDs each year; the majority of musical exposure occurs at monthly concerts featuring Belizean and international artists sharing the same card, or else DJ's mixing music at local nightclubs.\n\nDrama and Acting have also become a part of the Belizean culture. Many plays have taken place at the Bliss Center for the Performing Arts and the George Price Center for Peace and development. Several plays that have had a dramatic impact are \"Tigga Dead\" written by the Governor General. Also \"Stop! Stop the Bus\", directed by Beverly Swasey.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1168429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1168429", "title": "Culture of Nicaragua", "text": "Culture of Nicaragua\n\nMusic and religious icons in Iberian culture and Amerindian sounds and flavors. The west of Nicaragua was colonized by Spain and has a similar culture to other Spanish-speaking American countries. The eastern half of the country, on the other hand, was once a British protectorate, and English spoken domestically along with Spanish and indigenous languages. Its culture is similar to that of former and present British colonies in the Caribbean, such as Jamaica, Belize, the Cayman Islands, etc. \nRecent immigration by Spanish speakers has largely influenced younger generations, and an increasing number of people are either bilingual at home or speak Spanish only. There is a relatively large population of people of mixed African descent, as well as a smaller Garifuna population.\n\nDue to the African influence in the East Coast, there exists a different kind of music. It is the popular dance music called 'Palo de Mayo', or Maypole, which is celebrated during the Maypole Festival, during the month of May. The music is sensual with intense rhythms. The celebration is derived from the British Maypole for May Day celebration, as adapted and transformed by the Afro-Nicaraguans on the Caribbean or Mosquito Coast.\n\nOf the many cultures that were present before European colonization, the Nahuatl-speaking peoples who populated the west of the country have essentially been assimilated into the mainstream culture. In the east, however, several indigenous groups have maintained a distinct identity. The Miskito, Sumo, Garifuna, and Rama people still use their original languages, and also usually speak Spanish and English.\n\nSpanish, or Nicañol as Nicaraguan Spanish is sometimes referred to, is spoken by 90% of the country's population. In the Caribbean coast many afro-Nicaraguans and creoles speak English and creole English as their first language. Also in the Caribbean coast, many Indigenous people speak their native languages, such as the Miskito, Sumo, Rama and Garifuna language.\n\nIn addition, many ethnic groups in Nicaragua, such as the Chinese Nicaraguans and Palestinian Nicaraguans, have maintained their ancestral languages, which are minority languages, while also speaking Spanish and/or English. These minority languages include Chinese, Arabic, German, and Italian, among others. Nicaragua was home to 3 extinct languages, one of which was never classified. Nicaraguan Sign Language is also of particular interest to linguists.\n\nCentral American Spanish is spoken by about 90% of the country's population. In Nicaragua, the voseo form of Spanish is dominant in both speech and publications. The first nation to formally adopt the voseo dialect, Nicaragua is one two Central American nations (Costa Rica is the other) that use voseo Spanish as its written and spoken form of the language. The usage is also seen in Argentina, Uruguay, Paraguay, and coastal Colombia.\n\nIn the Caribbean coast, many Afro-Nicaraguans and creoles speak English and creole English as their first language, but they speak a very fluent Spanish as a second language. The languages in the North and South Atlantic Regions are influenced by English, Dutch, Portuguese, Spanish and French. Many of the indigenous people on the Caribbean coast speak native languages such as the Miskito, Sumo, Rama and Garifuna language. In addition, many ethnic groups in Nicaragua have maintained their ancestral languages, while also speaking Spanish or English; these include Chinese, Arabic, German, Hawaiian, and Italian.\n\nSpanish is taught as the principal language. English is taught to students during their high school years and tends to be the national second language. Other languages, particularly Romance languages, can be found sporadically.\n\nSome characteristics of Nicaraguan phonology include:\n\nReligion is a significant part of the culture of Nicaragua and forms part of the constitution. Religious freedom, which has been guaranteed since 1939, and religious tolerance is promoted by both the Nicaraguan government and the constitution. Bishops are expected to lend their authority to important state occasions, and their pronouncements on national issues are closely followed. They can also be called upon to mediate between contending parties at moments of political crisis.\n\nAlthough Nicaragua has no official religion it is nominally Roman Catholic. Practicing Roman Catholics are no longer the majority and are declining while evangelical Protestant groups and membership in the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints (Mormons) are growing rapidly have been growing since the 1990s. There are also strong Anglican and Moravian communities on the Caribbean coast.\n\nRoman Catholicism came to Nicaragua in the sixteenth century with the Spanish conquest and remained until 1939 the established faith. Protestantism and other Christian sects came to Nicaragua during the nineteenth century, but only during the twentieth century have Protestant denominations gained large followings in the Caribbean Coast of the country. Popular religion revolves around the saints, who are perceived as intermediaries between human beings and God.\n\nMost localities, from the capital of Managua to small rural communities, honor patron saints selected from the Roman Catholic calendar, with annual \"fiestas\". In many communities, a rich lore has grown up around the celebrations of patron saints, such as Managua's Saint Dominic (Santo Domingo), honored in August with two colorful, often riotous, day-long processions through the city. The high point of Nicaragua's religious calendar for the masses is neither Christmas nor Easter, but La Purísima, a week of festivities in early December dedicated to the Immaculate Conception, during which elaborate altars to the Virgin Mary are constructed in homes and workplaces.\n\nModern Nicaraguan music is a mixture of indigenous and European, especially Spanish, influences. Musical instruments include the marimba and others common across Central America.\n\nMarimba of Nicaragua is uniquely played by a sitting performer holding the instrument on his knees. He is usually accompanied by a bass fiddle, guitar and Guallatiri (a small guitar like a mandolin). This music is played at social functions as a sort of background music. The marimba is made with hardwood plates, placed over bamboo or metal tubes of varying lengths. It is played with two or four hammers.\n\nThe Caribbean coast of Nicaragua is known for a lively, sensual form of dance music that is especially loud and celebrated during the May Palo de Mayo festival. The Garifuna community exists in Nicaragua and is known for its popular music called Punta. Also, soca music, reggaeton and reggae are popular throughout the country.\n\nEducation is free for all Nicaraguans. Elementary education is free and compulsory, however, many children in rural areas are unable to attend due to lack of schools and other reasons. Communities located on the Caribbean coast have access to education in their native languages. The majority of higher education institutions are located in Managua, higher education has financial, organic and administrative autonomy, according to the law. Also, freedom of subjects is recognized.\n\nNicaragua's higher education consists of 48 universities and 113 colleges and technical institutes which serve student in the areas of electronics, computer systems and sciences, agroforestry, construction and trade-related services. The educational system includes 1 U.S. accredited English-language university, 3 Bilingual university programs, 5 Bilingual secondary schools and dozens of English Language Institutes. In 2005, almost 400,000 (7%) of Nicaraguans held a university degree. 18% of Nicaragua's total budget is invested in primary, secondary and higher education. University level institutions account for 6% of 18%.\n\nWhen the Sandinistas came to power in 1979, they inherited an educational system that was one of the poorest in Latin America. Under the Somozas, limited spending on education and generalized poverty, which forced many adolescents into the labor market, constricted educational opportunities for Nicaraguans. A 1980 literacy campaign, using secondary school students, university students as well as teachers as volunteer teachers, reduced the overall illiteracy rate from 50.3% to 12.9% within only five months. The key large scale programs of the Sandinistas included a massive National Literacy Crusade (March–August, 1980), social program, which received international recognition for their gains in literacy, health care, education, childcare, unions, and land reform. In September 1980, UNESCO awarded Nicaragua with the \"Nadezhda K. Krupskaya\" award for their successful literacy campaign. This was followed by the literacy campaigns of 1982, 1986, 1987, 1995 and 2000, all of which were also awarded by UNESCO.\n\nLiterature of Nicaragua can be traced to pre-Columbian times with the myths and oral literature that formed the cosmogonic view of the world that indigenous people had. Some of these stories are still known in Nicaragua. Like many Latin American countries, the Spanish conquerors have had the most effect on both the culture and the literature. Nicaraguan literature has historically been an important source of poetry in the Spanish-speaking world, with internationally renowned contributors such as Rubén Darío who is regarded as the most important literary figure in Nicaragua, referred to as the \"Father of Modernism\" for leading the modernismo literary movement at the end of the 19th century.\n\nOther literary figures include Ernesto Cardenal, Gioconda Belli, Claribel Alegría and José Coronel Urtecho, Alberto Cuadra Mejia, Carlos Martinez Rivas, Pablo Antonio Cuadra, Manolo Cuadra, Pablo Alberto Cuadra Arguello, Sergio Ramirez among others.\n\n\"El Güegüense\" is a satirical drama and was the first literary work of the pre-Columbian Nicaragua. It is regarded as one of Latin America's most distinctive colonial-era expressions and as Nicaragua's signature folkloric masterpiece combining music, dance and theater. El Güegüense is performed during the feast of San Sebastián in Diriamba (Carazo department) from January 17 to the 27th.\n\nThe theatrical play was written by an anonymous author in the 16th century, making it one of the oldest theatrical/dance works of the Western Hemisphere. It was passed down orally for many centuries until it was finally written down and published into a book in 1942.\n\nEl Güegüense represents folklore of Nicaragua, therefore, UNESCO proclaimed it a \"Masterpiece of the Oral and Intangible Heritage of Humanity\" in 2005 making Nicaragua the only country in Central America and one of six in Latin America to have 2 proclaimed masterpieces by UNESCO. The first proclaimed masterpiece was the \"Oral traditions and expressions\" of the Garifuna.\n\nNicaraguans legends are similar to those found in other Latin American countries. Some popular legends include:\n\n\n\nGeneral:\n\n"}
{"id": "34000843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34000843", "title": "Death in children's literature", "text": "Death in children's literature\n\nDeath in children’s literature has changed over the course of history as both the average lifespan has increased and society's morals and beliefs and conceptions of children have changed.\n\nUntil about the 17th century, there was very little literature written specifically for children. Oral storytelling and music accepted death as a matter-of-fact for both children and adults alike. Since mortality rates for children were much higher then, the subject was not taboo. The restoration of life, life as a preparation for death, death as a form of sleep, immortality, animals sacrificing themselves for humans, love as a conqueror of death, and inanimate objects that come to life were all common themes.\n\nExamples of the changing approach to death include: \"The Juniper Tree\" by the Brothers Grimm, in which a boy is murdered by his stepmother, but comes back as a bird and kills the stepmother. The bird then turns back into a boy and is reunited with his father and sister. The stepmother, though, does not come back to life.\n\n\"Andrew Lang's Fairy Books\" series contains numerous stories with references to death. In one instance, the reader is encouraged to live a good or “perfect” life in order to go to Heaven after death. In others, both animals and humans gain immortality. Already the concept that bad people stay dead and good, loving people return to life is evident. A better-known example is \"Sleeping Beauty\", in which a character's death is just a sleep that is conquered by love. These themes are also seen in the Slavic story \"Firebird\" and the retold versions of \"Le Morte d’Arthur\" by William Caxton and \"Robin Hood\" by Howard Pyle.\n\nFaith is also a factor in life and death. A well-known example is John Bunyan’s \"Pilgrim’s Progress\", originally written for children. Life is a journey of faith that will end at the gates of heaven. Those having lived a good (in this case Christian) life, enter. In Hans Christian Andersen’s original \"Little Mermaid\", the character must endure a journey, suffering and ultimately death for others, after which she is rewarded with an immortal soul. Aesop’s Fables also contain such references both in the versions written exclusively for adults and those for both children and adults.\n\nOften death has even been the subject of jokes, such as in the various versions of \"The Yellow Ribbon\", in which a young girl wears a yellow ribbon around her neck and a young boy asks her about it, but she puts him off. The two grow up together and eventually marry with the boy/man often asking her about the ribbon, but she continues to disregard the subject as “not important” or “not the right time”. Finally when they are very old, she consents to have him untie the ribbon, and her head falls off.\n\nIn \"Alice’s Adventures in Wonderland\", she jokes that if she falls and dies, she will be \"quite a story back home\". There is also the Mother Goose rhyme in which Humpty Dumpty falls and dies, because he is an egg that breaks and can not be re-built.\n\nLater this somewhat philosophical or spiritual approach would be replaced by a more scientific approach wherein the illusion of death as a form of sleep is denied and the decomposition of bodies is discussed. This viewpoint may have been popularized by Puritan beliefs that death is a punishment for sin. In favor of this argument would be such texts as James Janeway’s nonfiction \"A Token for Children: An Exact Account of the Conversion, Holy and Exemplary Lives and Joyful Deaths of Several Young Children\". While life is still shown as fragile, emphasis is placed on the importance of salvation rather than on fantastical alternatives of rebirth as animals, immortality and such. Louisa May Alcott’s well-known \"Little Women\" alludes to the story of John Bunyan’s \"Pilgrim’s Progress\" at the same time that she shows the characters, including one who dies, on a journey through the house. Even in this story one can see that opinions are changing as death becomes less of an expectation in society.\n\nDeath becomes more of a plot device at this time, such as in Frances Hodgson Burnett’s \"A Little Princess\" and \"The Secret Garden\". Sarah Crewe’s parents die and she is sent to an orphanage. Mary Lennox’s parents are killed and she is sent to live with her uncle, who is still grieving for his wife and unwilling to even meet his son for fear that he will die as well. In \"Bambi\", the focal point of the story is the title character's survival through his mother's sacrifice.\n\nIn these examples, death is treated much more subtly, alluded to as something that happened previously, not something to discuss frankly with children. In 1958, Margaret Wise Brown published \"The Dead Bird\", a simple picture book in which children find a dead bird. Just a few years later, children would hear about the deaths in the Vietnam War and the various political assassinations. These historical events may have had an effect on why some parents and educators now agree that death is a “fact of life” that is acceptable for children to be introduced to. At the same time, the cold, impersonal treatment of death begins to disappear in favor of the previous themes of leading a good life, love overcoming death, immortality, inanimate objects having or obtaining life, sacrificing one's life for others, and other such moral or \"uplifting\" themes. Still, even in the death-related books published in the 1970s and 1980s, feelings about death are discussed with children only 35% of the time and comfort was slightly more likely to be physical (54%) than verbal (48%).\n\nIn \"The Giving Tree\" by Shel Silverstein, a tree sacrifices itself for a boy it loves. Then later, the boy returns as an old man to the tree stump and the two comfort each other. In \"Charlotte’s Web\" by E.B. White, the pig Wilbur is afraid of death and the spider, Charlotte, spends her life creating messages in her web in order to save him. When she dies, “she lives on through her 500 offspring” and through the love of Wilbur. In C.S. Lewis’s \"The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe\", an allegory to the Christian belief in Jesus, the lion Aslan sacrifices himself for the Pevinsey children and later resurrects in time to vanquish the White Witch. In Natalie Babbitt’s \"Tuck Everlasting\", the Tucks have the fountain of eternal youth, but Winnie Foster chooses not to partake in this “life without death”. Katherine Paterson’s character Jess in \"Bridge to Terabithia\" is confused over the accidental death of his friend, Leslie. In \"A Taste of Blackberries\" by Doris Buchanan Smith, a child dies from an allergic reaction. In \"Admission to the Feast\" by Gunnel Beckman, and in \"Kira-Kira\" by Cynthia Kadohata, a young character dies of cancer. In \"The Tenth Good Thing about Barney\" by Judith Viorst, the last good thing about the deceased cat, Barney, is that his decaying body helps the flowers to grow – a sort of “natural immortality”.\n\nThe death of animals with or without human personalities is a popular way to introduce the topic to younger children. The death of an animal or inanimate object such as a plant made up 2% of the deaths in literature for children ages three to eight written in the 1970s and 1980s. In Hemery's \"Not Just a Fish\", a young girl's fish dies and the girl deals with both her grief and the sympathy or disregard of others. This book actually shows a new trend that exists in society: adults disregard for, or ignorance of, the grief of children. In \"Tough Boris\" by Fox, a character shown previously as a gruff, fearless pirate is grief-stricken when his parrot dies. In Viorst's \"The Tenth Good Thing About Barney\", a child is challenged to think of good things about a lost pet named Barney, while he and his family prepare for memorial activities. The use of animals allows the authors to broach the subject of replacing a loved one, such as in \"Charlotte’s Web\" when Charlotte's memory lives on through her children. More examples are available in \"The Yearling\" by Marjorie Kinnan Rawlings, \"The Black Stallion\" by Walter Farley, \"Old Yeller\" by \"Fred Gipson\" and \"Where the Red Fern Grows\" by Wilson Rawls. One hypothesis for shielding children from death is that with the advent of modern medicine and changing attitudes about family, death is more removed from our lives than ever before. For example, in Zolotow's \"My Grandson Lew\", a mother must admit to her six-year-old son that his grandfather and namesake has died and she did not tell him.\n\nDespite all the above examples having more the feel of the earlier themes of death, there are still scientific or formulaic approaches to death available for children, such as in the workbooks, \"They’re Part of the Family: Barklay and Eve Talk to Children About Pet Loss\" and \"Saying Goodbye to Your Pet: Children Can Learn to Cope with Grief\".\n\nReligious perspectives still play a role in the treatment of death. An estimated 40% of literature for children ages 3 to 8 written in the 1970s and 1980s gave indications of religious beliefs. While only 16% included affirmation of those beliefs, none include disapproval. In one instance, a text even came under fire for being too vague in its description of the religious aspect of death: some readers took offense to Maria Shriver’s \"What’s Heaven?\", because it did not specifically mention Jesus and because it did not dwell on whether or not everyone went to heaven. Boritzer’s \"What is Death?\", published only a year later, seems to be a response of sorts to this issue since it shows a variety of opinions on death. The lack of specifics does not appear to affect the popularity of \"Lifetimes: A Beautiful Way to Explain Death to Children\" by Mellonie and Ingpen. The universality of death is a subject in \"The Big Wave\" by Pearl Buck and \"The Fall of Freddie the Leaf\" by Buscaglia.\n\nA study of 110 books written in the 1970s and 1980s for children ages 3 to 8 concluded that 85% were fiction, but in 80% of the books, the information about death was considered correct and death was presented as final. In only 28% of the books was the death considered an inevitability. In the 72% that included physical details of death, burial was most frequently mentioned. After that, the category of items most likely to be mentioned (in order) were the dead body, a complete lack of physical details, the casket, and the funeral home. Other identifiers such as the headstone, organ donation, morgue, coroner, death records and/or laws, the grave or cemetery, embalming and autopsy, and related themes were rarely, if ever, mentioned.\n\nWhile \"life after death\" is only the subject of 31% of the books written for 3 to 8 year-olds that included death between 1970 and 1989, the focus of ongoing memory as a method of immortality is seen in many texts, such as \"The Tenth Good Thing About Barney\", mentioned above. In \"Dusty Was My Friend by Clardy\", a boy dies in an auto accident and the family shares their experiences and memories in order to continue with life. In \"Mick Harte Was Here\" by Barbara Park, a girl loses her brother to a bicycle accident because he did not have a helmet, and so she makes it her mission to remind people to wear helmets. In \"Badger’s Parting Gifts\", by Varley, an old badger knows he will die and is concerned with giving his friends special memories to remember him.\n\nSince the 1960s, literature for children is increasingly more realistic and “problem oriented”, so death is just one of many topics approached. For example, John Gunther’s \"Death Be Not Proud\" is more realistic than many of the death-related texts written prior. However, some studies have shown that there are gender factors affecting how the characters react to death and the experiences they have. According to the article \"Who Dies and Who Cries\", by Moore and Mae, males are more likely to show no visible signs of grief while females are more likely to express grief, particularly by crying. However males are slightly more likely to show anger and both are equally likely to socially withdraw at first. Also, the reactions to long-term grief are less likely to be shown in all cases. This can be seen in the more graphic details of deaths often depicted in texts aimed at males such as in \"My Brother Sam is Dead\" by James Lincoln Collier and Christopher Collier.\n\nNot only are the responses to death not even, neither are the subjects of death. In the literature for children ages 3 to 8 written in the 1970s and 1980s, where someone died, 51% of the deaths were adults, 28% were animals or plants and only 9% were children (six books). Of the adults who died, 91% were “grandparent age” and 9% were \"parent age\". However, when children died they were more likely to be elementary school age (67%) than high school age (33%). Of the deaths described, 74% were relatives, versus 21% who were non-relatives. The gender of the person dying was about even. Often, the place or cause of death is not mentioned (42% and 49% respectively). Though it is estimated that at least half of actual deaths occur at a hospital or nursing home, hospitals were the location for only 12% of deaths in the studied books. Diseases such as heart disease or pneumonia, accidents and old age were the most likely causes, while seasonal changes, suicide and war accounted for three deaths.\n"}
{"id": "51973703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51973703", "title": "Diana Slip", "text": "Diana Slip\n\nDiana Slip was an early 20th-century French manufacturer of lingerie and fetishwear, founded by Léon Vidal, the publisher of Les Éditions Gauloises. They employed renowned photographers of the time, including Roger Schall and Brassaï, to photograph their products. \nTheir main competitor was Yva Richard.\n"}
{"id": "3900832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3900832", "title": "Digital humanities", "text": "Digital humanities\n\nDigital humanities (DH) is an area of scholarly activity at the intersection of computing or digital technologies and the disciplines of the humanities. It includes the systematic use of digital resources in the humanities, as well as the reflection on their application. DH can be defined as new ways of doing scholarship that involve collaborative, transdisciplinary, and computationally engaged research, teaching, and publishing. It brings digital tools and methods to the study of the humanities with the recognition that the printed word is no longer the main medium for knowledge production and distribution.\n\nBy producing and using new applications and techniques, DH makes new kinds of teaching and research possible, while at the same time studying and critiquing how these impact cultural heritage and digital culture. Thus, a distinctive feature of DH is its cultivation of a two-way relationship between the humanities and the digital: the field both employs technology in the pursuit of humanities research and subjects technology to humanistic questioning and interrogation, often simultaneously.\n\nThe definition of the digital humanities is being continually formulated by scholars and practitioners. Since the field is constantly growing and changing, specific definitions can quickly become outdated or unnecessarily limit future potential. The second volume of \"Debates in the Digital Humanities\" (2016) acknowledges the difficulty in defining the field: \"Along with the digital archives, quantitative analyses, and tool-building projects that once characterized the field, DH now encompasses a wide range of methods and practices: visualizations of large image sets, 3D modeling of historical artifacts, 'born digital' dissertations, hashtag activism and the analysis thereof, alternate reality games, mobile makerspaces, and more. In what has been called 'big tent' DH, it can at times be difficult to determine with any specificity what, precisely, digital humanities work entails.\"\n\nHistorically, the digital humanities developed out of humanities computing and has become associated with other fields, such as humanistic computing, social computing, and media studies. In concrete terms, the digital humanities embraces a variety of topics, from curating online collections of primary sources (primarily textual) to the data mining of large cultural data sets to topic modeling. Digital humanities incorporates both digitized (remediated) and born-digital materials and combines the methodologies from traditional humanities disciplines (such as history, philosophy, linguistics, literature, art, archaeology, music, and cultural studies) and social sciences, with tools provided by computing (such as hypertext, hypermedia, data visualisation, information retrieval, data mining, statistics, text mining, digital mapping), and digital publishing. Related subfields of digital humanities have emerged like software studies, platform studies, and critical code studies. Fields that parallel the digital humanities include new media studies and information science as well as media theory of composition, game studies, particularly in areas related to digital humanities project design and production, and cultural analytics.\n\nBerry and Fagerjord have suggested that a way to reconceptualise digital humanities could be through a \"digital humanities stack\". They argue that \"this type of diagram is common in computation and computer science to show how technologies are ‘stacked’ on top of each other in increasing levels of abstraction. Here, [they] use the method in a more illustrative and creative sense of showing the range of activities, practices, skills, technologies and structures that could be said to make up the digital humanities, with the aim of providing a high-level map.\" Indeed, the \"diagram can be read as the bottom levels indicating some of the fundamental elements of the digital humanities stack, such as computational thinking and knowledge representation, and then other elements that later build on these. \"\n\nDigital humanities descends from the field of humanities computing, whose origins reach back to the 1930s and1940s in the pioneering work of English professor Josephine Miles and Jesuit scholar Roberto Busa and the women they employed. In collaboration with IBM, they created a computer-generated concordance to Thomas Aquinas' writings known as the \"Index Thomisticus\". Other scholars began using mainframe computers to automate tasks like word-searching, sorting, and counting, which was much faster than processing information from texts with handwritten or typed index cards. In the decades which followed archaeologists, classicists, historians, literary scholars, and a broad array of humanities researchers in other disciplines applied emerging computational methods to transform humanities scholarship.\n\nAs Tara McPherson has pointed out, the digital humanities also inherit practices and perspectives developed through many artistic and theoretical engagements with electronic screen culture beginning the late 1960s and 1970s. These range from research developed by organizations such as SIGGRAPH to creations by artists such as Charles and Ray Eames and the members of E.A.T. (Experiments in Art and Technology). The Eames and E.A.T. explored nascent computer culture and intermediality in creative works that dovetailed technological innovation with art.\n\nThe first specialized journal in the digital humanities was \"Computers and the Humanities\", which debuted in 1966. The Association for Literary and Linguistic Computing (ALLC) and the Association for Computers and the Humanities (ACH) were then founded in 1977 and 1978, respectively.\n\nSoon, there was a need for a standardized protocol for tagging digital texts, and the Text Encoding Initiative (TEI) was developed. The TEI project was launched in 1987 and published the first full version of the \"TEI Guidelines\" in May 1994. TEI helped shape the field of electronic textual scholarship and led to Extensible Markup Language (XML), which is a tag scheme for digital editing. Researchers also began experimenting with databases and hypertextual editing, which are structured around links and nodes, as opposed to the standard linear convention of print. In the nineties, major digital text and image archives emerged at centers of humanities computing in the U.S. (e.g. the \"Women Writers Project\", the \"Rossetti Archive\", and \"The William Blake Archive\"), which demonstrated the sophistication and robustness of text-encoding for literature. The advent of personal computing and the World Wide Web meant that Digital Humanities work could become less centered on text and more on design. The multimedia nature of the internet has allowed Digital Humanities work to incorporate audio, video, and other components in addition to text.\n\nThe terminological change from \"humanities computing\" to \"digital humanities\" has been attributed to John Unsworth, Susan Schreibman, and Ray Siemens who, as editors of the anthology \"A Companion to Digital Humanities\" (2004), tried to prevent the field from being viewed as \"mere digitization.\" Consequently, the hybrid term has created an overlap between fields like rhetoric and composition, which use \"the methods of contemporary humanities in studying digital objects,\" and digital humanities, which uses \"digital technology in studying traditional humanities objects\". The use of computational systems and the study of computational media within the arts and humanities more generally has been termed the 'computational turn'.\n\nIn 2006 the National Endowment for the Humanities (NEH) launched the Digital Humanities Initiative (renamed Office of Digital Humanities in 2008), which made widespread adoption of the term \"digital humanities\" all but irreversible in the United States.\n\nDigital humanities emerged from its former niche status and became \"big news\" at the 2009 MLA convention in Philadelphia, where digital humanists made \"some of the liveliest and most visible contributions\" and had their field hailed as \"the first 'next big thing' in a long time.\"\n\nAlthough digital humanities projects and initiatives are diverse, they often reflect common values and methods. These can help in understanding this hard-to-define field.\n\nValues\nMethods\nIn keeping with the value of being open and accessible, many digital humanities projects and journals are open access and/or under Creative Commons licensing, showing the field's \"commitment to open standards and open source.\" Open access is designed to enable anyone with an internet-enabled device and internet connection to view a website or read an article without having to pay, as well as share content with the appropriate permissions.\n\nDigital humanities scholars use computational methods either to answer existing research questions or to challenge existing theoretical paradigms, generating new questions and pioneering new approaches. One goal is to systematically integrate computer technology into the activities of humanities scholars, as is done in contemporary empirical social sciences. Yet despite the significant trend in digital humanities towards networked and multimodal forms of knowledge, a substantial amount of digital humanities focuses on documents and text in ways that differentiate the field's work from digital research in media studies, information studies, communication studies, and sociology. Another goal of digital humanities is to create scholarship that transcends textual sources. This includes the integration of multimedia, metadata, and dynamic environments (see The Valley of the Shadow project at the University of Virginia, the Vectors Journal of Culture and Technology in a Dynamic Vernacular at University of Southern California, or Digital Pioneers projects at Harvard). A growing number of researchers in digital humanities are using computational methods for the analysis of large cultural data sets such as the Google Books corpus. Examples of such projects were highlighted by the Humanities High Performance Computing competition sponsored by the Office of Digital Humanities in 2008, and also by the Digging Into Data challenge organized in 2009 and 2011 by NEH in collaboration with NSF, and in partnership with JISC in the UK, and SSHRC in Canada. In addition to books, historical newspapers can also be analyzed with big data methods. The analysis of vast quantities of historical newspaper content has showed how periodic structures can be automatically discovered, and a similar analysis was performed on social media. As part of the big data revolution, Gender bias, readability, content similarity, reader preferences, and even mood have been analyzed based on text mining methods over millions of documents and historical documents written in literary Chinese.\n\nDigital humanities is also involved in the creation of software, providing \"environments and tools for producing, curating, and interacting with knowledge that is 'born digital' and lives in various digital contexts.\" In this context, the field is sometimes known as computational humanities.\n\nDigital humanities scholars use a variety of digital tools for their research, which may take place in an environment as small as a mobile device or as large as a virtual reality lab. Environments for \"creating, publishing and working with digital scholarship include everything from personal equipment to institutes and software to cyberspace.\" Some scholars use advanced programming languages and databases, while others use less complex tools, depending on their needs. DiRT (Digital Research Tools Directory) offers a registry of digital research tools for scholars. TAPoR (Text Analysis Portal for Research) is a gateway to text analysis and retrieval tools. An accessible, free example of an online textual analysis program is Voyant Tools, which only requires the user to copy and paste either a body of text or a URL and then click the 'reveal' button to run the program. There is also an online list of online or downloadable Digital Humanities tools that are largely free, aimed toward helping students and others who lack access to funding or institutional servers. Free, open source web publishing platforms like WordPress and Omeka are also popular tools. \n\nDigital humanities projects are more likely than traditional humanities work to involve a team or a lab, which may be composed of faculty, staff, graduate or undergraduate students, information technology specialists, and partners in galleries, libraries, archives, and museums. Credit and authorship are often given to multiple people to reflect this collaborative nature, which is different from the sole authorship model in the traditional humanities (and more like the natural sciences).\n\nThere are thousands of digital humanities projects, ranging from small-scale ones with limited or no funding to large-scale ones with multi-year financial support. Some are continually updated while others may not be due to loss of support or interest, though they may still remain online in either a beta version or a finished form. The following are a few examples of the variety of projects in the field:\n\nThe Women Writers Project (begun in 1988) is a long-term research project to make pre-Victorian women writers more accessible through an electronic collection of rare texts. The Walt Whitman Archive (begun in the 1990s) sought to create a hypertext and scholarly edition of Whitman’s works and now includes photographs, sounds, and the only comprehensive current bibliography of Whitman criticism. The Emily Dickinson Archive (begun in 2013) is a collection of high-resolution images of Dickinson’s poetry manuscripts as well as a searchable lexicon of over 9,000 words that appear in the poems. \nThe Slave Societies Digital Archive (formerly Ecclesiastical and Secular Sources for Slave Societies), directed by Jane Landers and hosted at Vanderbilt University, preserves endangered ecclesiastical and secular documents related to Africans and African-descended peoples in slave societies. This Digital Archive currently holds 500,000 unique images, dating from the 16th to the 20th centuries, and documents the history of between 6 and 8 million individuals. They are the most extensive serial records for the history of Africans in the Atlantic World and also include valuable information on the indigenous, European, and Asian populations who lived alongside them. \n\nThe involvement of librarians and archivists plays an important part in digital humanities projects because of the recent expansion of their role so that it now covers digital curation, which is critical in the preservation, promotion, and access to digital collections, as well as the application of scholarly orientation to digital humanities projects. A specific example involves the case of initiatives where archivists help scholars and academics build their projects through their experience in evaluating, implementing, and customizing metadata schemas for library collections.\n\nThe initiatives at the National Autonomous University of Mexico is another example of a digital humanities project. These include the digitization of 17th-century manuscripts, an electronic corpus of Mexican history from the 16th to 19th century, and the visualization of pre-Hispanic archaeological sites in 3-D. \n\n\"Cultural analytics\" refers to the use of computational method for exploration and analysis of large visual collections and also contemporary digital media. The concept was developed in 2005 by Lev Manovich who then established the Cultural Analytics Lab in 2007 at Qualcomm Institute at California Institute for Telecommunication and Information (Calit2). The lab has been using methods from the field of computer science called Computer Vision many types of both historical and contemporary visual media—for example, all covers of \"Time\" magazine published between 1923 and 2009, 20,000 historical art photographs from the collection in Museum of Modern Art (MoMA) in New York, one million pages from Manga books, and 16 million images shared on Instagram in 17 global cities. Cultural analytics also includes using methods from media design and data visualization to create interactive visual interfaces for exploration of large visual collections e.g., Selfiecity and On Broadway.\n\nCultural Analytics research is also addressing a number of theoretical questions. How can we \"observe\" giant cultural universes of both user-generated and professional media content created today, without reducing them to averages, outliers, or pre-existing categories? How can work with large cultural data help us question our stereotypes and assumptions about cultures? What new theoretical cultural concepts and models are required for studying global digital culture with its new mega-scale, speed, and connectivity? \n\nThe term “cultural analytics” (or “culture analytics”) is now used by many other researchers, as exemplified by two academic symposiums, a four-month long research program at UCLA that brought together 120 leading researchers from university and industry labs, an academic peer-review \"Journal of Cultural Analytics: CA\" established in 2016, and academic job listings.\n\nWordHoard (begun in 2004) is a free application that enables scholarly but non-technical users to read and analyze, in new ways, deeply-tagged texts, including the canon of Early Greek epic, Chaucer, Shakespeare, and Spenser. The Republic of Letters (begun in 2008) seeks to visualize the social network of Enlightenment writers through an interactive map and visualization tools. Network analysis and data visualization is also used for reflections on the field itself – researchers may produce network maps of social media interactions or infographics from data on digital humanities scholars and projects.\n\nCulturomics is a form of computational lexicology that studies human behavior and cultural trends through the quantitative analysis of digitized texts. Researchers data mine large digital archives to investigate cultural phenomena reflected in language and word usage. The term is an American neologism first described in a 2010 \"Science\" article called \"Quantitative Analysis of Culture Using Millions of Digitized Books\", co-authored by Harvard researchers Jean-Baptiste Michel and Erez Lieberman Aiden.\n\nA 2017 study published in the Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of the United States of America compared the trajectory of n-grams over time in both digitised books from the 2010 Science article with those found in a large corpus of regional newspapers from the United Kingdom over the course of 150 years. The study further went on to use more advanced Natural language processing techniques to discover macroscopic trends in history and culture, including gender bias, geographical focus, technology, and politics, along with accurate dates for specific events.\n\nThe Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (begun in 1995) is a dynamic reference work of terms, concepts, and people from philosophy maintained by scholars in the field. MLA Commons offers an open peer-review site (where anyone can comment) for their ongoing curated collection of teaching artifacts in \"Digital Pedagogy in the Humanities: Concepts, Models, and Experiments\" (2016). The \"Debates in the Digital Humanities\" platform contains volumes of the open-access book of the same title (2012 and 2016 editions) and allows readers to interact with material by marking sentences as interesting or adding terms to a crowdsourced index.\n\nLauren F. Klein and Matthew K. Gold have identified a range of criticisms in the digital humanities field: \"'a lack of attention to issues of race, class, gender, and sexuality; a preference for research-driven projects over pedagogical ones; an absence of political commitment; an inadequate level of diversity among its practitioners; an inability to address texts under copyright; and an institutional concentration in well-funded research universities\". Similarly Berry and Fagerjord have argued that a digital humanities should \"focus on the need to think critically about the implications of computational imaginaries, and raise some questions in this regard. This is also to foreground the importance of the politics and norms that are embedded in digital technology, algorithms and software. We need to explore how to negotiate between close and distant readings of texts and how micro-analysis and macro-analysis can be usefully reconciled in humanist work.\" Alan Liu has argued, \"while digital humanists develop tools, data, and metadata critically, therefore (e.g., debating the ‘ordered hierarchy of content objects’ principle; disputing whether computation is best used for truth finding or, as Lisa Samuels and Jerome McGann put it, ‘deformance’; and so on) rarely do they extend their critique to the full register of society, economics, politics, or culture.\" Some of these concerns have given rise to the emergent subfield of Critical Digital Humanities (CDH): \"Some key questions include: how do we make the invisible become visible in the study of software? How is knowledge transformed when mediated through code and software? What are the critical approaches to Big Data, visualization, digital methods, etc.? How does computation create new disciplinary boundaries and gate-keeping functions? What are the new hegemonic representations of the digital – ‘geons’, ‘pixels’, ‘waves’, visualization, visual rhetorics, etc.? How do media changes create epistemic changes, and how can we look behind the ‘screen essentialism’ of computational interfaces? Here we might also reflect on the way in which the practice of making- visible also entails the making-invisible – computation involves making choices about what is to be captured. \"\n\nKlein and Gold note that many appearances of the digital humanities in public media are often in a critical fashion. Armand Leroi, writing in \"The New York Times\", discusses the contrast between the algorithmic analysis of themes in literary texts and the work of Harold Bloom, who qualitatively and phenomenologically analyzes the themes of literature over time. Leroi questions whether or not the digital humanities can provide a truly robust analysis of literature and social phenomenon or offer a novel alternative perspective on them. The literary theorist Stanley Fish claims that the digital humanities pursue a revolutionary agenda and thereby undermine the conventional standards of \"pre-eminence, authority and disciplinary power.\" However, digital humanities scholars note that \"Digital Humanities is an extension of traditional knowledge skills and methods, not a replacement for them. Its distinctive contributions do not obliterate the insights of the past, but add and supplement the humanities' long-standing commitment to scholarly interpretation, informed research, structured argument, and dialogue within communities of practice\".\n\nSome have hailed the digital humanities as a solution to the apparent problems within the humanities, namely a decline in funding, a repeat of debates, and a fading set of theoretical claims and methodological arguments. Adam Kirsch, writing in the \"New Republic\", calls this the \"False Promise\" of the digital humanities. While the rest of humanities and many social science departments are seeing a decline in funding or prestige, the digital humanities has been seeing increasing funding and prestige. Burdened with the problems of novelty, the digital humanities is discussed as either a revolutionary alternative to the humanities as it is usually conceived or as simply new wine in old bottles. Kirsch believes that digital humanities practitioners suffer from problems of being marketers rather than scholars, who attest to the grand capacity of their research more than actually performing new analysis and when they do so, only performing trivial parlor tricks of research. This form of criticism has been repeated by others, such as in Carl Staumshein, writing in \"Inside Higher Education\", who calls it a \"Digital Humanities Bubble\". Later in the same publication, Straumshein alleges that the digital humanities is a 'Corporatist Restructuring' of the Humanities. Some see the alliance of the digital humanities with business to be a positive turn that causes the business world to pay more attention, thus bringing needed funding and attention to the humanities. If it were not burdened by the title of digital humanities, it could escape the allegations that it is elitist and unfairly funded.\n\nThere has also been critique of the use of digital humanities tools by scholars who do not fully understand what happens to the data they input and place too much trust in the \"black box\" of software that cannot be sufficiently examined for errors. Johanna Drucker, a professor at UCLA Department of Information Studies, has criticized the \"epistemological fallacies\" prevalent in popular visualization tools and technologies (such as Google's n-gram graph) used by digital humanities scholars and the general public, calling some network diagramming and topic modeling tools \"just too crude for humanistic work.\" The lack of transparency in these programs obscures the subjective nature of the data and its processing, she argues, as these programs \"generate standard diagrams based on conventional algorithms for screen display...mak[ing] it very difficult for the semantics of the data processing to be made evident.\"\n\nThere has also been some recent controversy among practitioners of digital humanities around the role that race and/or identity politics plays. Tara McPherson attributes some of the lack of racial diversity in digital humanities to the modality of UNIX and computers themselves. An open thread on DHpoco.org recently garnered well over 100 comments on the issue of race in digital humanities, with scholars arguing about the amount that racial (and other) biases affect the tools and texts available for digital humanities research. McPherson posits that there needs to be an understanding and theorizing of the implications of digital technology and race, even when the subject for analysis appears not to be about race.\n\nAmy E. Earhart criticizes what has become the new digital humanities \"canon\" in the shift from websites using simple HTML to the usage of the TEI and visuals in textual recovery projects. Works that has been previously lost or excluded were afforded a new home on the internet, but much of the same marginalizing practices found in traditional humanities also took place digitally. According to Earhart, there is a \"need to examine the canon that we, as digital humanists, are constructing, a canon that skews toward traditional texts and excludes crucial work by women, people of color, and the LGBTQ community.\"\n\nPractitioners in digital humanities are also failing to meet the needs of users with disabilities. George H. Williams argues that universal design is imperative for practitioners to increase usability because \"many of the otherwise most valuable digital resources are useless for people who are—for example—deaf or hard of hearing, as well as for people who are blind, have low vision, or have difficulty distinguishing particular colors.\" In order to provide accessibility successfully, and productive universal design, it is important to understand why and how users with disabilities are using the digital resources while remembering that all users approach their informational needs differently.\n\nDigital humanities have been criticized for not only ignoring traditional questions of lineage and history in the humanities, but lacking the fundamental cultural criticism that defines the humanities. However, it remains to be seen whether or not the humanities have to be tied to cultural criticism, per se, in order to be the humanities. The sciences might imagine the Digital Humanities as a welcome improvement over the non-quantitative methods of the humanities and social sciences.\n\nAs the field matures, there has been a recognition that the standard model of academic peer-review of work may not be adequate for digital humanities projects, which often involve website components, databases, and other non-print objects. Evaluation of quality and impact thus require a combination of old and new methods of peer review. One response has been the creation of the \"DHCommons Journal\". This accepts non-traditional submissions, especially mid-stage digital projects, and provides an innovative model of peer review more suited for the multimedia, transdisciplinary, and milestone-driven nature of Digital Humanities projects. Other professional humanities organizations, such as the American Historical Association and the Modern Language Association, have developed guidelines for evaluating academic digital scholarship.\n\nThe 2012 edition of \"Debates in the Digital Humanities\" recognized the fact that pedagogy was the “neglected ‘stepchild’ of DH” and included an entire section on teaching the digital humanities. Part of the reason is that grants in the humanities are geared more toward research with quantifiable results rather than teaching innovations, which are harder to measure. In recognition of a need for more scholarship on the area of teaching, \"Digital Humanities Pedagogy\" was published and offered case studies and strategies to address how to teach digital humanities methods in various disciplines.\n\nThe Alliance of Digital Humanities Organizations (ADHO) is an umbrella organization that supports digital research and teaching as a consultative and advisory force for its constituent organizations. Its governance was approved in 2005 and it has overseen the annual Digital Humanities conference since 2006. The current members of ADHO are:\nADHO funds a number of projects such as the \"Digital Humanities Quarterly\" journal and the \"Digital Scholarship in the Humanities\" (DSH) journal, supports the Text Encoding Initiative, and sponsors workshops and conferences, as well as funding small projects, awards, and bursaries.\n\nHASTAC (Humanities, Arts, Science, and Technology Alliance and Collaboratory) is a free and open access virtual, interdisciplinary community focused on changing teaching and learning through the sharing of news, tools, methods, and pedagogy, including digital humanities scholarship. It is reputed to be the world's first and oldest academic social network.\n\n\n\n\n\nIntroductory guides\n\n"}
{"id": "1838264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1838264", "title": "Eight Masters of Nanjing", "text": "Eight Masters of Nanjing\n\nThe Eight Masters of Nanjing () or Eight Masters of Jinling () were a group of 17th century Chinese painters living in Nanjing who were leaders of the Nanjing school. The most prominent of them was Gong Xian. The Eight Masters of Nanjing were:\n\n\n\"Jinling\" was a former name of the city of Nanjing. In Chinese, the terms 金陵八家 and 南京八家 are both used, though the former (\"Eight Masters of Jinling\") is more frequently used than the latter (\"Eight Masters of Nanjing\"). In English, on the other hand, the term \"Eight Masters of Nanjing\" is more frequently used than the term \"Eight Masters of Jinling\".\n\n"}
{"id": "7975769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7975769", "title": "Fence insert", "text": "Fence insert\n\nA fence insert is an object designed to fit or clip into standard chain link fencing. There are three main objectives typically fulfilled by fence inserts. One is to provide privacy by converting chain link fencing into an opaque surface. Another is to exploit the fence as a site for signage, often providing low-resolution displays of corporate logos, sports mascots or verbal messages. A third objective of fence inserts is to decorate otherwise plain fencing.\n\nThe origin of fence inserts can be traced back to U.S. patent #507,952, filed by Clarence White of Minneapolis, Minnesota in 1893. The invention consists of \"marbles or other loose independent filling pieces\" sized to allow placement within the cells of a wire mesh. The purpose of the invention is described as providing \"a convenient and economical means of lettering, ornamenting, or filling\" the wire mesh.\n\nCurrent products on the market include privacy slats that weave through the fence, plastic-shaped cups designed to clip into open cells, and two-part interlocking units which attach together at the crossover of fence wires.\n"}
{"id": "25396861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25396861", "title": "Fever Dream (novel)", "text": "Fever Dream (novel)\n\nFever Dream is a novel by Douglas Preston and Lincoln Child. It was released on May 11, 2010 by Grand Central Publishing. This is the tenth book in the Special Agent Pendergast series and also the first in the Helen trilogy. The preceding novel is \"Cemetery Dance\", and it is followed by \"Cold Vengeance\".\n\nWhile visiting his family plantation in New Orleans, Special Agent Aloysius Pendergast inadvertently uncovers evidence that his wife Helen's death whilst on safari in Africa was no accident. He enlists the help of his friend, police lieutenant Vincent D'Agosta, in his search for Helen's killer. Their investigation quickly betrays just how little Pendergast knew about his wife, as they uncover her fascination with John James Audubon, a local painter whose work in chronicling the wildlife of America became very influential. Helen was searching for the \"Black Frame\", a near-mythical painting made by Audubon when he was committed to a sanatorium. Pendergast and D'Agosta soon discover that Audubon's early work was particularly poor, and come to the conclusion that his sickness somehow triggered his artistic genius. However, their investigations have attracted the attentions of the same conspiracy responsible for Helen's murder, and when D'Agosta is put in mortal danger, Pendergast must turn to Captain Laura Hayward to venture deep into the Louisiana bayou and uncover the extent of the conspiracy. Helen was a researcher on Project Aves, an attempt to create a drug that could enhance a person's latent genius by modifying a rare strain of avian influenza. The project ended in disaster when an infected bird escaped quarantine and infected a local family. Upon learning that no attempt to recover the bird was made so that Project Aves could have human test subjects, Helen planned to reveal the conspiracy to the world and was murdered for it.\n\nOnce in the bayou, Pendergast finds the man responsible for Helen's death: Charles J. Slade, her former employer and the director of Project Aves. Slade has isolated himself from the world after contracting the same strain of influenza that Audubon had. After using his newfound genius to find a cure for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, he soon fell victim to the disease's side effects. The influenza destroyed his brain's ability to filter out sensations, leaving him trapped in a state of hyper-awareness. Every sensation is now as agonizing as it is overwhelming, pushing Slade further and further towards madness despite his efforts to manage the disease. Rather than killing him, Pendergast convinces Slade that killing himself is the only way he can escape the madness that will soon destroy the part of his brain that controls his sense of self. However, Slade refuses to reveal to Pendergast the name of the person who shot D'Agosta—Judson Esterhazy, Helen's brother.\n\n"}
{"id": "78273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78273", "title": "Flag of Chile", "text": "Flag of Chile\n\nThe flag of Chile consists of two equal horizontal bands of white and red, with a blue square the same height as the white band in the canton, which bears a white five-pointed star in the center. It was adopted on 18 October 1817. The Chilean flag is also known in Spanish as \"La Estrella Solitaria\" (\"The Lone Star\").\n\nIt has a 3:2 ratio between length and width, it is divided horizontally into two bands of equal size (being the lower red). The upper area is divided once: in a square (blue), with a single centered white star; and rectangle (white), whose lengths are in proportion 1:2.\n\nThe star may represent a guide to progress and honor while other interpretations refer to its reference to an independent state; blue symbolizes the sky and the Pacific Ocean, white is for the snow-covered Andes, and red stands for the blood spilled to achieve independence.\n\nAccording to the epic poem \"La Araucana\", the colors were derived from those from the flag flown by the Mapuche during the Arauco War. \"Flag Day\" is held each year on the ninth of July to commemorate the 77 soldiers who died in the 1882 Battle of La Concepción.\n\nThe first records on the possible use of flags by indigenous peoples date back to the War of Arauco, the most famous being the use described in the late 16th century epic poem \"La Araucana\". In Canto XXI, Alonso de Ercilla described Talcahuano, warrior and chief of the Mapuche who work the lands near the present-day city that bears his name, bearing emblems of blue, white and red. Another important piece of information is that the colors of the flag were chosen from the ancient chile that they made which was treasured worldwide. \n\nTwo flags have been documented as used by Mapuche troops. However, these descriptions were made late in the eighteenth century without certainty about the age of them. One consisted of a five-pointed white star on a blue background similar to the canton of the current Chilean flag, while the second had a white eight-pointed star centered on a blue diamond with border zigzagged over a black background. The latter flag appears to be waved by the chief Lautaro in the best-known artistic representation of it, created by painter Pedro Subercaseaux.\n\nThe main symbol of this flag is the star of Arauco, called guñelve, representing the flower of the canelo and the bright star of Venus. In the independence of Chile, Bernardo O'Higgins said that guñelve was direct inspiration for create the Chilean flag with the Lone Star.\n\nIn the case of the colonizing troops, they used several Spanish flags. Each battalion had its own flag, which could incorporate different elements including the heraldic coat of arms of the King of Spain. One of the symbols most commonly used was the Cross of Burgundy, a jagged, red saltire crossed on a white cloth. The Cross of Burgundy was one of the main symbols of the Spanish Empire overseas, so it flew over the warships and was carried by the militia in the colonial territory during the Spanish colonization of the Americas.\n\nIn 1785, Carlos III established a uniform flag for all ships of the Spanish Armada, similar to the current flag of Spain. The use of this red-and-yellow flag would be extended in 1793 to \"maritime towns, castles and coastal defenses.\" Despite the establishment of this new flag, the cross of Burgundy would still often used by colonial entities.\n\nAt the onset of the Chilean War of Independence, the First Government Junta was proclaimed on 18 September 1810, marking Chile's first step toward independence. It would be during the government of Jose Miguel Carrera in which the desire for emancipation would gain more strength. Nevertheless, the junta was established (at least nominally) as a way of controlling the government during the absence of King Fernando VII, so that the symbols of government remained Hispanic. Therefore, one of the first acts of his government would be the implementation of national symbols, such as an insignia, a coat of arms and a distinctive flag to identify the patriots. The first flag, according to tradition, would have been embroidered by the sister of the ruler, Javiera Carrera, and would be presented and raised for the first time on 4 July 1812 at a dinner with the United States consul Joel Roberts Poinsett to celebrate the anniversary of U.S. independence, an event having a great influence on the locals' struggle for independence.\n\nNamed the flag of the \"Patria Vieja\" (\"Old Fatherland\"), the flag had three horizontal stripes of blue, white and yellow. For some, the bands represent the three branches of government: majesty popular, law and force, respectively; to others, the stripes represent features of nature: the sky, the snowy Andes and fields of golden wheat, respectively. The following 30 September, during a celebration in the capital to commemorate the first government junta, the Chilean coat of arms, also called \"Patria Vieja\", was solemnly adopted and included in the center of the flag.\n\nAlthough the blue-white-yellow flag of the \"Patria Vieja\" was the most recognized, other versions utilized a different arrangement of the colors, such as white-blue-yellow, for example. On other occasions, the red Cross of Santiago was included in the upper left corner together with the coat of arms in the center. The cross originates from the victory of the patriot troops in the Battle of El Roble, where within the possessions of the captured war booty was a distinctive insignia of the Order of St. James, an important symbol of Spanish pride.\n\nIn 1813 after the royalist invasion and the outbreak of the War of Independence, the Spanish symbols were abolished and the tricolor flag was formally adopted by the patriotic forces in a ceremony at the Plaza Mayor of Santiago. Months later in 1814, Carrera left political and military power, and Francisco de la Lastra was chosen as Supreme director. The war of independence began at great losses for the patriot side, and so signed Treaty of Lircay on 3 May 1814. This agreement reaffirmed the Spanish sovereignty over the territory of Chile, among other things, and as one of its direct consequences, the Spaniard flag was readopted at the expense of the tricolor.\n\nThe flag of the \"Patria Vieja\" would wave again after Carrera's return to power 23 July 1814 until the Battle of Rancagua ( 1–2 October) where the royalist victory ended the patriot government and began the \"Reconquista\" (or \"Reconquest\") from 1814 to 1817, restoring the imperial standard. The tricolor flag was last flown for the last time in the Battle of Los Papeles (\"Batalla de los Papeles\"), but it would appear again raised in the ships that José Miguel Carrrera brought in 1817 and during his campaigns in Argentina (1820–1821). The Reconquista ended with the victory of Liberation Army of the Andes (\"Ejército Liberatador de los Andes\") in the Battle of Chacabuco on 12 February 1817. In this battle, the patriot troops fought with the army colonel and the flag of the Army of the Andes, inspired by the flag of Argentina, without readopting the blue-white-yellow standard.\n\nToday, the flag of the \"Patria Vieja\" is used during memorial services for this Chilean historical period, conducted by the National Institute (\"Instituto Nacional General José Miguel Carrera\"), which Carrera's government founded (10 August 1813). The emblem, adopted as a symbol at the beginning of carrerismo, was subsequently adopted by Chilean nationalism movement. For example, the flag with a red lightning bolt emblem superimposed was the insignia of the National Socialist Movement of Chile between 1932 and 1938.\n\n The victory at the Battle of Chacabuco on 26 May 1817 gave way to a new period known as the \"Patria Nueva\" (\"New Fatherland\"). A new flag was adopted that day, known today as the Flag of the Transition (\"Bandera de la Transición\"), and it is recognized as the first national flag and the last flag used until the one used currently. It was widely publicized at the time that the design was attributed to Juan Gregorio de Las Heras. This flag had three equal stripes: blue, white, and red. The bottom red strip replaced the yellow from the flag of 1812. The origin of the flag's colors would be based on the description given by Alonso de Ercilla as those of the insignia of the Mapuche troops. The significances of these colors were equivalent to those of the \"Patria Vieja\", except that the yellow replaced the red to represent the blood that had been shed during the many conflicts.\n\nDespite initial enthusiasm, the flag did not obtain official legalization and disappeared five months later. One reason for its suppression was that it was easily confused with both the flag of the Netherlands and the tricolor of revolutionary France, from which it was inspired.\n\nAccording to the \"General History of Chile\" by Diego Barros Arana, the last time the Flag of the Transition was unfurled was at the ceremony to commemorate the Battle of Rancagua, two weeks before the adoption of the current national flag. However, there is information about a possible third flag between the Transitional and final, which would have exchanged the order of white and blue stripes and incorporated the five-pointed white star on the central strip, but that is no certainty, and it is not accepted by the majority of Chilean historians.\n\nThe design of the current Chilean flag is commonly attributed to Bernardo O'Higgins's Minister of War, José Ignacio Zenteno, having been designed by the Spanish soldier Antonio Arcos, although historians argue that it was Gregorio de Andía y Varela who drew it.\n\nThe flag was made official on 18 October 1817 by a decree, of which only indirect references to the absence of a copy thereof, which was officially presented during the Pledge of Independence ceremony on 12 February 1818, a ceremony in which the bearer was Tomás Guido.\n\nThe original flag was designed according to the Golden Ratio, which is reflected in the relation between the widths of the white and blue parts of the flag, as well as several elements in blue canton. The star does not appear upright in the center of the rectangular canton, instead the upper point appears slightly inclined toward the pole in such a way that the projection of its sides divide the length of the canton golden proportion. Additionally, in the center is printed the National Coat of Arms, known from the previous Flag of the Transition and adopted in 1817.\n\nThe adoption of the star configuration goes back to the star used by the Mapuches. According to O'Higgins, the star of the flag was the Star of Arauco. In Mapuche iconography, the morning star or Venus, (Mapudungun: \"Wünelfe\" or the Hispanicized \"Guñelve\") was represented through the figure of an octagram star or a foliated cross. Although, the star which was finally adopted bore a star having five points with the design of the \"guñelve\" remaining reflected in an asterisk inserted in the center of the star, representing the combination of European and indigenous traditions.\nThese designs soon fell into oblivion due to the difficulty in the flag's construction. So, the embroidered seal and the eight-pointed asterisk disappeared while the star was kept completely upright. In 1854 the proportion was determined in keeping with the colors of the flag, leaving the canton as a square and the ratio of hoist to fly set to 2:3. Finally in 1912, the diameter of the star was established, the precedence of the colors in the presidential flag and decorative cockade was determined, setting the order as blue, white and red from top to bottom or from left to right of the viewer.\n\nAll of these arrangements would later be recast into Supreme Decree No. 1534 of 1967 from the Ministry of the Interior during the government of Eduardo Frei Montalva. In this document, the national emblems, coat of arms, the rosette or cockade, and the presidential standard were established. Meanwhile, the Political Constitution of Chile of 1980 establishes in the first clause of article 222 that all inhabitants of the republic should respect Chile and its national emblems.\nFew records remain of the original design, the most valuable being that of the flag used in the Declaration of Independence, which had a width of two meters and a length just over two feet. The flag was protected by various hereditary institutions until it was stolen in 1980 by members of the Revolutionary Left Movement as a protest against the military dictatorship. This group kept the specimen and returned it in late 2003 to the National Historical Museum, where it can be found today.\n\nThere is a rather popular legend in Chile that claims this third Chilean flag won a \"Most Beautiful National Flag in the World\" contest. Its most common version states that this happened in 1907 in Blankenberghe, Belgium, in the coast of the Baltic Sea . Other versions of this story say this happened in the 19th century, or that the Chilean flag was placed second after the French flag; there are even variations that talk about Chile's national anthem, placing it either in the first place or second, after La Marseillaise. The fact that the only documented version of this story gets basic details wrong (Belgium has a coast on the North Sea, not the Baltic Sea) doesn't reflect well on its historical accuracy.\n\nThe flag of the U.S. state of Texas is similar to the Chilean flag. The flag of Texas was designed and adopted on 25 January 1839; whereas Chile adopted a flag similar to today's Chilean flag 22 years earlier on 18 October 1817.\n\nLike Texas, on 17 January 1840; a coalition of nobles from the Mexican states of Coahuila, Nuevo León, and Tamaulipas advocated secession from Mexico to form their own federal republic called the Republic of the Rio Grande with Laredo (today part of Texas) as the capital but unlike Texas, was never formally recognized and ended in 6 November of the same year. Its flag was similar to Texas' in that there were three stars with a red hoist, and black and white bars on the side instead of one star with a blue hoist and white and red bars.\n\nIn 1822 during the Peruvian War of Independence, troops from both the Liberating Expedition of Peru (\"Expedición Libertadora del Perú\") and the United Liberating Army of Peru (\"Ejército Unido Libertador del Perú\") used a standard that was identical to the modern flag of Chile, except their flag had three stars in the canton, representing the three nations united by the cause of independence: the Argentine provinces, Chile and Peru.\n\nOn the other hand, the Chilean flag would have served as inspiration for the supporters of Cuban independence at the start the Ten Years' War in the so-called War Cry of Yara (Spanish: \"Grito de Yara\") in 1868. The leader of this revolution, Carlos Manuel de Céspedes, would have been inspired to create the first Cuban flag named \"La Demajagua\" in honor of the place where the revolt began. Two main differences are that the red and blue colors are inverted and that the red canton extends to the middle of the fly instead of one-third as on the Chilean flag.\n\nCéspedes would have been inspired by the Chilean flag as a way of honoring the efforts of Benjamín Vicuña Mackenna on behalf of Chile to achieve independence of Cuba after the Spanish defeat in the Chincha Islands War. According to Cespedes's son, his father \"imagined a new flag that bore the same colors as that of the Carreras and O'Higgins and that would differentiate itself from the disposition of those colors.\" However, the flag would not have much success, and an earlier design would become the definitive Cuban flag.\n\nThe first flag of the Confederate States of America, known as the Stars and Bars, is somewhat similar to the flag of Chile.\n\nThe flag of Liberia, founded in 1847, also includes a single star on the canton, but it has multiple horizontal stripes similar to the United States Flag.\n\nAlso, the Flag of Malacca, a state in Malaysia, is similar, having the same colors (except the yellow star and moon) and a similar canton design, although the proportions and color order are different.\n\nThe state of Amazonas in Brazil also adopted a similar flag 1982. Its flag also has an elongated blue canton with multiple stars.\n\nThe construction of the flag of Chile, at present, is officially defined in Supreme Decree No. 1,534 of the Ministry of the Interior, published in 1967, on the use of national emblems, which systematized and consolidated various laws and regulations on the subject. (Other laws include Law No. 2,597 of 11 January 1912, concerning the colors and proportions of the national flag, the presidential sash and rosette or cockade, and Supreme Decree No. 5805 of the Ministry of the Interior, published 26 August 1927, sets the size of the national flag for use in buildings and public offices.) According to the decree, the ratio between length and width of the flag is 3:2, being divided horizontally into two bands of equal size. While the lower section corresponds to the color red, the upper area is divided once in a blue square and a white rectangle whose lengths are in proportion 1:2, respectively. The star is located in the center of the blue canton and is constructed on a circle whose diameter is half the side of the canton.\nAccording to Chilean law, public use of the flag is allowed without prior authorization. Before October 2011 its use was prohibited, without the approval of the provincial governor. (An exception was made in 2010 during the bicentennial celebrations, where display of the flag was permitted during the whole month of September.) This rule, however, was rarely enforced, as the flag was widely used on street celebrations, stadiums or rallies, without penal consequences.\n\nPublic buildings and private residences are required to display the flag on Navy Day (21 May), National Day (18 September) and Army Day (19 September). If the flag is displayed incorrectly or not displayed at all during these days, the person responsible may be fined.\n\nAccording to the protocol concerned, the flag should be hoisted from the tip of a white mast, and if done in company with other flags different, they must be of equal or lesser size. The Chilean flag must be set to the left if the sum of the flags is an even number or the center if the sum is an odd number. The flag must also be the first to be lifted and lowered the last.\n\nThe Chilean flag can be displayed hanging either vertically or horizontally from a building or wall. In both cases, the blue square should be to the viewer's upper left.\n\nArticle 22 of the 1980 Constitution of Chile states that all inhabitants of the Republic owe respect to Chile and to its national emblems. The national emblems of Chile are the national flag, the coat of arms of the Republic and the national anthem. Pursuant to article 6 of the State Security Act of Chile (Decreto No. 890 de 1975), it is a felony against the public order to publicly mistreat the flag, the coat of arms, the name of the motherland or the national anthem.\n\nChile is administratively divided into 15 regions in which the internal government corresponds to the intendant. Some regional governments have adopted their own insignias, though most lack relevance, being principally used for public, regional organizations. The only exception is the flag of the Magallanes and Antartica Chilena Region, which has been adopted as a symbol of identity Magellan by its inhabitants.\n\nThe regional flags can be found in the Access Hall of the National Congress of Chile in the city of Valparaíso. Many communes and cities also have their own flags.\n\nIn memory of the brave heroes of the Battle of La Concepcion in 1882, on 9 July each year, the very day the final Chilean soldiers in La Concepcion died in defense of the Chilean nation, this \"Pledge to the Flag\" (\"Juramento de la Bandera\") is recited at all installations and military bases of the Chilean Army and on graduation parades of the Chilean Navy and Chilean Air Force across the nation in remembrance of this moment in Chilean history. If done for the Carabineros de Chile, it is on the service anniversary (27 April) and passing out parades of enlisted personnel.\n\nEnglish translation of the pledge - Armed Forces variant\n<poem>I (name and rank) pledge, to God and this flag,\nto serve my country with loyalty,\nwhether in sea, on land, or anywhere else,\nto give my life if need be,\nto fulfill my military duties and obligations,\nin accordance with the laws and regulations,\nto obey quickly and punctually the orders of my superiors,\nand thus invest my efforts in being a brave and honorable soldier (sailor, airmen)\nfor the country's sake!</poem>\n\nEnglish translation of the pledge - Carabineros variant\n<poem>I pledge, as a constable/second lieutenant, to God and this very flag,\nTo serve loyally the duties of my profession,\nTo preserve the Constiution and laws of the republic,\nAnd to serve and protect all citizens and the people who live in this land\nEven if it needs for me to sacrifice my life\nFor the defense of order and the country!</poem>\n\n"}
{"id": "1398990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1398990", "title": "French Renaissance", "text": "French Renaissance\n\nThe French Renaissance was the cultural and artistic movement in France between the 15th and early 17th centuries. The period is associated with the pan-European Renaissance, a word first used by the French historian Jules Michelet to define the artistic and cultural \"rebirth\" of Europe.\n\nNotable developments during the French Renaissance include the spread of humanism, early exploration of the \"New World\" (as New France by Giovanni da Verrazzano and Jacques Cartier); the development of new techniques and artistic forms in the fields of printing, architecture, painting, sculpture, music, the sciences and literature; and the elaboration of new codes of sociability, etiquette and discourse.\n\nThe French Renaissance traditionally extends from (roughly) the French invasion of Italy in 1494 during the reign of Charles VIII until the death of Henry IV in 1610. This chronology notwithstanding, certain artistic, technological or literary developments associated with the Renaissance arrived in France earlier (for example, by way of the Burgundy court or the Papal court in Avignon); however, the Black Death of the 14th century and the Hundred Years' War kept France economically and politically weak until the late 15th century.\n\nThe reigns of Francis I of France (from 1515 to 1547) and his son Henry II (from 1547 to 1559) are generally considered the apex of the French Renaissance.\n\nThe word \"Renaissance\" is a French word, whose literal translation into English is \"Rebirth\". The word Renaissance was first used and defined by French historian Jules Michelet (1798–1874), in his 1855 work, \"Histoire de France\" (History of France). Jules Michelet defined the 16th-century Renaissance in France as a period in Europe's cultural history that represented a break from the Middle Ages, creating a modern understanding of humanity and its place in the world. As a French citizen and historian, Michelet also claimed the Renaissance as a French movement. His work is at the origin of the use of the French word \"Renaissance\" in other languages.\n\n\"For a chronological list of French Renaissance artists, see List of French Renaissance artists.\"\n\nIn the late 15th century, the French invasion of Italy and the proximity of the vibrant Burgundy court (with its Flemish connections) brought the French into contact with the goods, paintings, and the creative spirit of the Northern and Italian Renaissance, and the initial artistic changes in France were often carried out by Italian and Flemish artists, such as Jean Clouet and his son François Clouet and the Italians Rosso Fiorentino, Francesco Primaticcio and Niccolò dell'Abbate of the first School of Fontainebleau (from 1531).\n\nIn 1516, Francis I of France invited Leonardo da Vinci to the Château d'Amboise and provided him with the Château du Clos Lucé, then called Château de Cloux, as a place to stay and work. Leonardo, a famous painter and inventor, arrived with three of his paintings, namely the \"Mona Lisa\", \"Sainte Anne\", and \"Saint Jean Baptiste\", today owned by the Louvre museum of Paris.\n\nThe art of the period from Francis I through Henry IV is often inspired by late Italian pictorial and sculptural developments commonly referred to as Mannerism (associated with Michelangelo and Parmigianino, among others), characterized by figures which are elongated and graceful and a reliance on visual rhetoric, including the elaborate use of allegory and mythology.\n\nThere are a number of French artists of incredible talent in this period including the painter Jean Fouquet of Tours (who achieved amazingly realistic portraits and remarkable illuminated manuscripts) and the sculptors Jean Goujon and Germain Pilon.\n\nLate Mannerism and early Baroque.\n\nHenry IV invited the artists Toussaint Dubreuil, Martin Fréminet and Ambroise Dubois to work on the château of Fontainebleau and they are typically called the second School of Fontainebleau.\n\nMarie de Medici, Henry IV's queen, invited the Flemish painter Peter Paul Rubens to France, and the artist painted a number of large-scale works for the queen's Luxembourg Palace in Paris. Another Flemish artist working for the court was Frans Pourbus the younger.\n\nOutside France, working for the dukes of Lorraine, one finds a very different late mannerist style in the artists Jacques Bellange, Claude Deruet and Jacques Callot. Having little contact with the French artists of the period, they developed a heightened, extreme, and often erotic mannerism (including night scenes and nightmare images), and excellent skill in etching.\n\nOne of the greatest accomplishments of the French Renaissance was the construction of the Châteaux of the Loire Valley: no longer conceived of as fortresses, these pleasure palaces took advantage of the richness of the rivers and lands of the Loire region and they show remarkable architectural skill.\n\nThe old Louvre castle in Paris was also rebuilt under the direction of Pierre Lescot and would become the core of a brand new Renaissance château. To the west of the Louvre, Catherine de Medici had built for her the Tuileries palace with extensive gardens and a grotte.\n\nThe ascension of Henry IV of France to the throne brought a period of massive urban development in Paris, including construction on the Pont Neuf, the Place des Vosges (called the \"Place Royale\"), the Place Dauphine, and parts of the Louvre (amongst which the Great Gallery).\n\nFrench Renaissance gardens were characterized by symmetrical and geometric planting beds or parterres; plants in pots; paths of gravel and sand; terraces; stairways and ramps; moving water in the form of canals, cascades and monumental fountains, and extensive use of artificial grottes, labyrinths and statues of mythological figures. They became an extension of the chateaux that they surrounded, and were designed to illustrate the Renaissance ideals of measure and proportion.\n\nBurgundy, the mostly French-speaking area unified with the Kingdom of France in 1477, was the musical center of Europe in the early and middle 15th century. Many of the most famous musicians in Europe either came from Burgundy, or went to study with composers there; in addition there was considerable interchange between the Burgundian court musical establishment and French courts and ecclesiastical organizations in the late 15th century. The Burgundian style gave birth to the Franco-Flemish style of polyphony which dominated European music in the late 15th and early 16th centuries. However, by the end of the 15th century, a French national character was becoming distinct in music of the French royal and aristocratic courts, as well as the major centers of church music. For the most part French composers of the time shunned the sombre colors of the Franco-Flemish style and strove for clarity of line and structure, and, in secular music such as the chanson, lightness, singability, and popularity. Guillaume Dufay and Gilles Binchois are two notable examples from the Burgundian school during the early Renaissance period.\n\nThe most renowned composer in Europe, Josquin des Prez, worked for a time in the court of Louis XII, and likely composed some of his most famous works there (his first setting of Psalm 129, \"De profundis\", was probably written for the funeral of Louis XII in 1515). Francis I, who became king that year, made the creation of an opulent musical establishment a priority. His musicians went with him on his travels, and he competed with Henry VIII at the Field of the Cloth of Gold in 1520 for the most magnificent musical entertainment; likely the event was directed by Jean Mouton, one of the most famous motet composers of the early 16th century after Josquin.\n\nBy far the most significant contribution of France to music in the Renaissance period was the chanson. The chanson was a variety of secular song, of highly varied character, and which included some of the most overwhelmingly popular music of the 16th century: indeed many chansons were sung all over Europe. The chanson in the early 16th century was characterised by a dactylic opening (long, short-short) and contrapuntal style which was later adopted by the Italian canzona, the predecessor of the sonata. Typically chansons were for three or four voices, without instrumental accompaniment, but the most popular examples were inevitably made into instrumental versions as well. Famous composers of these \"Parisian\" chansons included Claudin de Sermisy and Clément Janequin. Janequin's \"La guerre\", written to celebrate the French victory at Marignano in 1515, imitates the sounds of cannon, the cries of the wounded, and the trumpets signaling advance and retreat. A later development of the chanson was the style of \"musique mesurée\", as exemplified in the work of Claude Le Jeune: in this type of chanson, based on developments by the group of poets known as the Pléiade under Jean-Antoine de Baïf, the musical rhythm exactly matched the stress accents of the verse, in an attempt to capture some of the rhetorical effect of music in Ancient Greece (a coincident, and apparently unrelated movement in Italy at the same time was known as the Florentine Camerata). Towards the end of the 16th century the chanson was gradually replaced by the air de cour, the most popular song type in France in the early 17th century.\n\nThe era of religious wars had a profound effect on music in France. Influenced by Calvinism, the Protestants produced a type of sacred music much different from the elaborate Latin motets written by their Catholic counterparts. Both Protestants and Catholics (especially the Protestant sympathizers among them) produced a variation of the chanson known as the \"chanson spirituelle\", which was like the secular song but was fitted with a religious or moralizing text. Claude Goudimel, a Protestant composer most noted for his Calvinist-inspired psalm settings, was murdered in Lyon during the St. Bartholomew's Day Massacre. However, not only Protestant composers were killed during the era of conflict; in 1581, Catholic Antoine de Bertrand, a prolific composer of chansons, was murdered in Toulouse by a Protestant mob.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10324857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10324857", "title": "Freternindad Folklórica y Cultural Caporales Universitarios de San Simon", "text": "Freternindad Folklórica y Cultural Caporales Universitarios de San Simon\n\nThe Fraternidad Folklórica Cultural Caporales Universitarios San Simón (\"Caporales San Simón\") was founded in Cochabamba, Bolivia on November 22, 1978 by a group of residents from Oruro, Bolivia, alumni of the \"Universidad Mayor de San Simón\", for the purpose of retaining and growing its ancient customs. This group of youths decided to create a dance group of Caporales as a means to demonstrate their devotion to the Virgin Mary of the Socavón as well as to be able to participate in the Carnival in Oruro. \nFor this reason, the \"Universidad Mayor de San Simón\" gives them support as it considers them a positive representation of Bolivian folklore.\n\n"}
{"id": "10438744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10438744", "title": "Gene targeting", "text": "Gene targeting\n\nGene targeting (also, replacement strategy based on homologous recombination) is a genetic technique that uses homologous recombination to modify an endogenous gene. The method can be used to delete a gene, remove exons, add a gene and modify individual base pairs (introduce point mutations). Gene targeting can be permanent or conditional. Conditions can be a specific time during development / life of the organism or limitation to a specific tissue, for example. Gene targeting requires the creation of a specific vector for each gene of interest. However, it can be used for any gene, regardless of transcriptional activity or gene size.\n\nIn general, DNA containing part of the gene to be targeted, a reporter gene, and a (dominant) selectable marker is assembled in bacteria.\n\nGene targeting methods are established for several model organisms and may vary depending on the species used. To target genes in mice, the DNA is inserted into mouse embryonic stem cells in culture. Cells with the insertion can contribute to a mouse's tissue via embryo injection. Finally, chimeric mice where the modified cells make up the reproductive organs are bred. After this step the entire body of the mouse is based on the selected embryonic stem cell.\n\nTo target genes in moss, the DNA is incubated together with freshly isolated protoplasts and with polyethylene glycol. As mosses are haploid organisms, moss filaments (protonema) can be directly screened for the target, either by treatment with antibiotics or with PCR. Unique among plants, this procedure for reverse genetics is as efficient as in yeast. Gene targeting has been successfully applied to cattle, sheep, swine and many fungi.\n\nThe frequency of gene targeting can be significantly enhanced through the use of engineered endonucleases such as zinc finger nucleases, engineered homing endonucleases, and nucleases based on engineered TAL effectors. This method has been applied to species including Drosophila melanogaster, tobacco, corn, human cells, mice and rats.\n\nGene trapping is based on random insertion of a cassette, while gene targeting manipulates a specific gene. Cassettes can be used for many different things while the flanking homology regions of gene targeting cassettes need to be adapted for each gene. This makes gene trapping more easily amenable for large scale projects than targeting. On the other hand, gene targeting can be used for genes with low transcriptions that would go undetected in a trap screen. The probability of trapping increases with intron size, while for gene targeting, small genes are just as easily altered.\n\nGene targeting has been widely used to study human genetic diseases by removing (\"knocking out\"), or adding (\"knocking in\"), specific mutations of interest. Previously used to engineer rat cell models, advances in gene targeting technologies enable a new wave of isogenic human disease models. These models are the most accurate in vitro models available to researchers and facilitate the development of personalized drugs and diagnostics, particularly in oncology.\n\nMario R. Capecchi, Martin J. Evans and Oliver Smithies were awarded the 2007 Nobel Prize in Physiology or Medicine for their work on \"principles for introducing specific gene modifications in mice by the use of embryonic stem cells\", or gene targeting.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19232587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19232587", "title": "GoBeyond Student Travel", "text": "GoBeyond Student Travel\n\nGoBeyond Student Travel is an organization which offers community service based adventure programs during the Northern Hemisphere summertime to teenagers. Programs are run in the British Virgin Islands, Ecuador and the Galapagos, Thailand, China, Costa Rica, India, Peru and Australia.\n\nGoBeyond grew from the experience of its sister institutions, ActionQuest and Sea|mester, with a decided aim on global community service. After the events of September 11, 2001, ActionQuest decided to develop a program aimed at service, which became GoBeyond Student Travel.\n\nGoBeyond ran its first programs in 2003 in the British Virgin Islands, Australia, and the Galapagos. In 2004, GoBeyond Thailand began, and in 2005, GoBeyond China and Costa Rica began. In 2010, GoBeyond expanded offerings to India and Peru.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "415904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=415904", "title": "History of the Slovak language", "text": "History of the Slovak language\n\nThe Slovak language is a West Slavic language. Historically, it forms a dialect continuum with the Czech language. The written standard is based on the work of Ľudovít Štúr published in the 1840s and codified on 9. – 10. August 1847 by Tatrín Association in Čachtice. \nThe centrist hypothesis was popular in the 19th century when it played a positive role in the Slovak national movement. According to this theory, the Slovak language is the remnant of the Proto-Slavic language spoken in the Middle Danube region before the great migration of the Slavs. This opinion is based on Nestor's Primary Chronicle and was supported by Matej Bel and later by several notable members of the movement like Pavel Jozef Šafárik, Anton Bernolák and Ľudovít Štúr. Most modern scholars oppose the opinion about Slavic homeland in the Middle Danube, but the theory was revived in the 20th century by a Russians linguist Oleg Trubachyov.\n\nThe theories about the nonhomogeneous origin of the Slovak language assume its late integration in the 13th-14th centuries or even after the 16th century. They assume that the Proto-Slavic basis of Slovak emerged on the border of early Western, Southern and Eastern Slavic macro dialects or Slovak emerged from early of late mixing of neighboring languages. A prominent Slovak linguist Samuel Czambel (1856-1909) believed that Western Slovak dialects come from early Western Slavic, Central Slovak dialects are remains of the South Slavic language area (Czechized over centuries) and Eastern Slovak dialects come from Old Polish and Old Ukrainian. A similar opinion was held by Samuil Bernstein. István Kniezsa suggested mixing of languages in today's Central Slovakia after the Mongol invasion of Europe and Ottoman wars thus forming modern Central Slovak dialects. The opinion about the late integration is not compliant with the current state of knowledge about the development of Slovak dialects from Proto-Slavic.\n\nThe theory was proposed in the interwar period by Czech linguists František Trávníček and Václav Vážný. The authors believed that the Slovak and the Czech language emerged from a common Proto-Czech-Slovak (Proto-Czech). Trávníček tried to explain unique features of Central Slovak dialects by later differentiation, Vážný by the expansion from the south. Trávníček's trial to explain the origin of Slovak from the Proto-Czech-Slovak language is tough to be outdated and the author abandoned the theory already after the World War II.\n\nModern theories are based on a nonhomogeneous Proto-Slavic basis of Slovak. The prevailing theory is a migration-integration theory of Rudolf Krajčovič.\n\nRudolf Krajčovič suggests three phases of development:\n\nThe theory was proposed by a Slovak linguist Martin Pukanec. According to Pukanec, the migration-integration theory does not explain the presence of old isoglosses around Nitra, one of main old political centers. The main idea of the theory is koineization - a formation of supra-dialect (koiné) on the border of West Slavic and South Slavic dialects. The koineization on the border of two dialects can be very fast with many dramatic changes (two or three or even one generation).\n\nThe author suggests the following chronology:\n\nThe arguments for this theory are mostly indirect.\n\nThe Proto-Slavic basis of Slovak included both West Slavic and Non-West Slavic features. Some West Slavic features are common for all Slovak dialects, but there are also Non-West Slavic features that are distributed over 70-75% of the territory. The Central Slovak dialects exhibits major deviations from what is generally thought of as West Slavic. \n\nIn the 10th century Proto-Slavic ceased to exist and Slovak began to emerge as an independent language. The most important early changes were the contraction, the loss and vocalization of yers and the denasalization of \"ǫ\" and \"ę\". These changes affected the word structure and phonemes. The loss of yers differentiated future Slovak, Czech and Polish from neighboring Slavic regions, the denasalization differentiated Slovak and Czech from Polish. Slovak was not affected by old Polish dispatalisation in the 10th century i.e. \"žena\" vs. Polish \"żona\" (a woman, a wife), \"kvet\" vs. Polish \"kwiat\", etc. It was also not affected by old Czech syllabic depatalisation before hard syllables, i.e. \"priateľ\" vs. Czech sg. \"přítel\", pl. \"přátelé\" (a friend). Slovak preserved a difference between \"dz\"/\"z\" (from Proto-Slavic */dj/ */gtj/), i.e. \"medźa\" (medza, a boundary), \"vítäź\" (víťaz, an elite warrior, a winner) whereas both phonemes were transformed to ź in old Czech and dź in old Polish. Contrary to Czech, a vowel mutation \"à\" > \"e\" did not occur in Slovak , i.e. \"ulica\" vs. Czech \"ulice\" (a street). The differences between Slovak and Czech like \"ťažko\"/\"těžko\", \"cudzí\"/\"cizí\" became stable in the first centuries. Slovak developed only single \"r\" in contrast with Czech pairs \"r\"/\"ř\" and Polish \"r\"/\"rz\". As i.e. Krajčovič states, this development shows that Slovak evolved as an independent language already from the 10th century and its early or late formation from other languages is not possible.\n\nThe contraction is a change caused by a loss of \"j\" between vowels and their mergence into one long vowel, i.e. \"dobroje\" → \"dobré\" (good), \"bojati sę\" → \"báť sa\" (to be afraid). The contraction originated in the territory of Great Moravia in the last years of its existence and divided the Slavic territory to \"contraction\" and \"non-contraction\" areas. In (Proto-)Slovak, the contraction occurred before the disappearance and vocalization of yers, but not uniformly. In future Western and Eastern Slovak dialects the change was similar to other West Slavic languages. The Central Slovak shares some old features with the South-Slavic contraction (peripheral) territory. The Central Slovak preserved more non-contracted forms (i.e. \"moja\", \"moje\" vs. \"má\", \"mé\", \"bojati sa\" /dialect/ vs \"báť sa\"). The different process of contraction \"oje\" → \"oe\" → \"ô\" probably resulted also to the characteristic neuter adjective ending \"-ô\" (i.e. \"dobrô\" vs. \"dobré\").\n\nThe disappearance of weak yers and the change of strong yers is reconstructed by the Havlík's law. The back yer (ъ) was vocalized as \"e\" in the Proto-Slavic basis of Western and Eastern Slovak (\"pętъkъ\" → \"pátek:\" Friday) and as \"o\" in the Central Slovak area (\"piatok\"). The weak yers did not disappear in one syllable words but the back yer changed to \"a\" and the front yer to \"ä\". The change occurred already in the 10th century like in other West Slavic languages, contrary to the neighboring East Slavic area.\n\nThe Proto-Slavic nasal vowels \"ǫ\" and \"ę\" were denasalized in the 10th century. The nasal vowel \"ǫ\" was replaced by \"u\" and \"ú\", i.e. \"zǫbъ > zub\" (a tooth), \"lǫka > lúka\" (a meadow) probably through an extinct nasal vowel \"ų\": \"ǫ > ų > u/ú\". The denasalization of \"ę\" was similar: \"ę > ą̈ > ä/a̋\". These forms from the 11th-12th centuries have been preserved some Slovak dialects until nowadays (Orava, Gemer and Sotak dialects). The central Slovak dialects preserved only the short form \"ä\". In other dialects, they changed to wide range of monophthongs and diphthongs.\n\nThe Proto-Slavic quantity was associated with specific vocals (long \"a\", \"u\", \"i\", \"y\", \"ě\", \"ę\", \"ǫ\" vs. short \"o\", \"e\", \"ъ\", \"ь\"). The original quantity has disappeared or changed, creating pairs of short and long vocals \"a\"/\"á\", \"e\"/\"é\", etc.\n\nThe early Slovak inherited the velar \"g\" from Proto-Slavic. The velar was preserved in the early stage of development, but it changed to \"h\" approximately in the 12th century. Unlike the Czech language, this change was not complete and the original \"g\" has been preserved in the \"-zg\" consonant group, at the end of words and on the border of morphemes, i.e. \"mozgy\" vs. Czech \"mozky\" (brains). The partial preservation of \"g\" in the phonetic system allowed Slovak to adopt \"g\" in later loanwords, i.e. \"gombík\" (a button).\n\nIn contrast with the modern Slovak, the early Slovak had three grammatical numbers inherited from Proto-Slavic (singular, plural and dual. Dual had been probably never fully developed and excinted already in the 14th century. Dual forms were recorded mostly in documents from Western and partially from Central Slovakia, but they usage in the 15th-16th centuries was limited to words that naturally come in pairs (ears, eyes, etc) and the words derived from the number two. However, they were already garbled or outnumbered by plural forms.\n\nThe earliest written records of Slovak are represented by personal and place names, later by sentences, short notes and verses in Latin and Czech documents. Latin documents contain also mentions about a cultivation of the vernacular language. The complete texts are available since the 15th century. In the 15th century, Latin began to lose its privileged position in favor of Czech and cultural Slovak.\n\nThe Old Church Slavonic becomes the literary and liturgical language, and the Glagolitic alphabet the corresponding script, in Great Moravia until 885. Latin continues to be used in parallel. Some of the early Old Church Slavonic texts contain elements of the language of the Slavic inhabitants of Great Moravia and Pannonia (which were called Sloviene by Slavic texts at that time).\nThe use of the Slavic language (Old Church Slavonic) in Great Moravia is prohibited by Pope Stephen V in 885. Latin becomes the administrative and liturgical language again. Many followers and students of Constantine and Methodius flee to Bulgaria, Croatia, later also to Bohemia, Rus' and other countries.\n\nFrom 10th century onward, Slovak began to develop independently. Very few written records of Old Slovak remain, mainly from 13th century onwards, consisting of groups of words or lone sentences. Bigger or full Slovak texts appear from 15th century. We can research old Slovak language and its development mainly through old Slovak toponyms, petrificated within Latin texts. Examples include: Duor 1156 (dvor - courtyard), Dorz 1113 (dvorec), Crali 1113 (kráľ - king), Mussenic 1113 (mučeník - martyr), Scitar 1113 (štítar - shieldmaker), Grinchar 1113 (Hrnčiar - potter), Zaltinc 1156 (zlatník - goldmaker), Otroč 1156 (Otrok - slave, servant). In 1294, monk Ivanka from Kláštor pod Znievom writes: \"ad parvam arborem nystra slowenski breza ubi est meta\". It is important mainly because it contains oldest recorded adjective 'Slovak' in Slovak language (modern form - slovensky). Up until this point, all adjectives were recorder mainly in Latin - Sclavus, Slavus, Sclavoniae, etc.\n\nThe written Czech language starts to penetrate to present-day Slovakia through Czech clergy teaching in capitular schools in the 14th century. In the pre-standard period, the Czech language was used (along with Latin and cultural Slovak) as a cultural and liturgical language. The reasons for the use of the Czech language are: the absence of a uniform Slovak language standard due to the absence of a Slovak state (whereas the Czech was a more or less standardized language), the rise of the Slovak population in towns, the fact that it is easier to learn than Latin for Slovaks, studies of many Slovaks at the University of Prague, the influence of the campaigns of the Czech Hussites and of John Giskra (Ján Jiskra) in Slovakia, and the temporary conquest of Moravia by the Hungarian king Matthias Corvinus. \n\nThe Czech language was recognized as an official language of the Evangelical Church by the councils in 1610 and 1614 and was used as a liturgical language even till the early 20th century. The official form was \"biblical Czech\" used in Czech Bible of Kralice. The orthography of Hussite \"Brothers of the Law of Christ\" was used also in Catholic publications, but often adjusted to the cultural Slovak language (e. g. replacement of Czech \"ř\" by \"r\", \"ě\" by \"e\", \"au\" by \"ú\", \"ou\" by \"ú\", etc. ).\n\nThe usage of Czech in Slovak environment resulted to the Slovakized Czech language - a variant of cultural Czech with Slovak elements. This variant existed since the penetration of Czech to present-day Slovakia and was used e.g. in city books, official correspondence, etc. Early writings had a various frequency of Slovak elements caused by a poor knowledge of standard Czech among many Slovak native speakers, the influence of vernacular language and cultural Slovak. The normalized form of Slovakized Czech existed since the 17th century. In the normalized form, Czech letters and words were systematically replaced by their Slovak equivalents.\n\nSlovak humanist Ján Kollár together with Andrej Ľudovít Radlinský tried to standardize a new literal language so-called \"Old Slovak\" (staroslovenčina). \"Old Slovak\" was a euphemism for his version of Slovakized Czech. According to the contemporary Pan-Slavic views, the Slavic nation consisted of four \"tribes\" - Czechoslovak, Polish, Russian and Illyrian (Southern Slavs). Kollár assumed a common origin of Czechs and Slovaks. The original language should be closer to Slovak, Czech \"daughter\" allegedly lost its beauty in the contact with the German language. After the defeat of the Hungarian Revolution of 1848, Kollár got an approval of the government in Vienna to use \"Old Slovak\" as an administrative and educational language. The trial to create a common literal language for Czechs and Slovaks failed. Czechs had difficulties understanding Kollár's \"improvements\" of Czech by Slovakisms and younger Slovak generation preferred standardization of Slovak.\n\nThe Catholics use the Western Slovak language (Cultured Western Slovak, Jesuit Slovak) based on the language used by the educated people from the region of Trnava where the important Jesuit University of Trnava was founded in 1635, and in the profane sphere (especially in the towns) the Slovak language more or less influenced by the Czech is used even in written documents, often with a chaotic orthography. \n\nAfter the defeat of the Turks near Vienna in 1683, many Slovaks gradually emigrate to the \"Lower Lands\", i.e. to the territories in present-day Hungary, Serbia (later to Croatia and Bulgaria), and Romania depopulated after the Turkish occupation. They have preserved their particular Slovak dialects until today. In eastern Slovakia, a Slovakized standard Polish language is used sometimes (besides Czech, Slovak and Latin) for the same purposes and reasons as the Czech language is used in the remaining Slovakia. Of course, the Latin language continues to be used, especially in state administration. \n\nEfforts to establish Slovak as the standard language emerge as early as in the 17th century. For example, in his \"The Czech Grammar\" (1603, Prague), Vavrinec Benedikt of Nedožery incites the Slovaks to deepen their knowledge of their Slovak language. Matej Bel in the introduction to the \"Gramatica Slavico-Bohemica\" (1745, Bratislava) of Pavel Doležal compares the Slovak language with other recognized languages. Literary activity in the Slovak language flourishes during the second half of the seventeenth century and continues into the next century. Romuald Hadvabný of Červený Kláštor proposes a detailed (Western Slovak) language codification in his Latin-Slovak Dictionary (1763) with an outline of the Slovak grammar. The first adventure novel in Slovak - the \"René mláďenca príhodi a skúsenosťi\" - is published in 1783 by Jozef Ignác Bajza in the Western Slovak language.\n\nAnton Bernolák, a Catholic priest (1762-1813), publishes his \"Dissertatio philologico-critica de litteris Slavorum\" (Bratislava 1787), in which he codifies a Slovak language standard based on the Western Slovak language of the University of Trnava, but containing also some central Slovak elements (e.g. soft consonants \"ď\", \"ť\", \"ň\", \"ľ\" and many words). The orthography is strictly diacritical. The language is often called the Bernolák language. Bernolák will continue his codification work in other books in the 1780s and 1790s and especially in his huge six-volume \"Slovak-Czech-Latin-German-Hungarian Dictionary\" (published only 1825 –1927). 1820s, the Bernolák standard is revised and Central Slovak elements are systematically replaced by their Western Slovak equivalents.\n\nThis is the first successful establishment of a Slovak language standard. Bernolák's language will be used by Slovak Catholics (esp. by the writers Juraj Fándly and Ján Hollý), but the Protestants will still write in the Czech language (in its old form used in Bohemia until the 17th century). In \n\nIn 1843, young Slovak Lutheran Protestants, led by Ľudovít Štúr, decide to establish and discuss the central Slovak dialect as the new Slovak language standard (instead of both Bernolák's language used by the Catholics and the Czech language used by older Slovak Lutheran Protestants). The new standard is also accepted by some users of the Bernolák language led by Ján Hollý (see also 1851), but is initially criticized by the older Lutheran Protestants led by Ján Kollár (died 1852). This language formed a basis of later literary Slovak language (see 1851) that is used today. It will be officially declared the new language standard in August 1844. The first Slovak grammar of the new language will be published by Ľudovít Štúr in 1846.\n\nIn 1844, the Hungarian Diet of Pozsony (today Bratislava) replaces the Latin language (used since the Middle Ages) with the Hungarian language as the official language of Hungary (including what later became Slovakia).\n\nIn 1851, the supporters of Bernolák and Štúr made a compromise and agreed on the reform of the Štúr's standard. The new standard respected etymological principles instead of Štúr's phonetic-phonological transcription and got Slovak orthography closer to other Slavic languages, especially Czech. The new grammar was published by Martin Hattala in 1852.\n\nThe Martin period lasted from the abolishment of the Slovak national and cultural institution Matica slovenská until the foundation of Czechoslovakia (1918). The name comes from Turčiansky Svätý Martin, the contemporary Slovak cultural center. The usage of Slovak in education and culture was significantly reduced during forced Magyarization after the Austro-Hungarian Compromise of 1867. \n\nSo-called \"Martin practice\" () was de facto standard partially formed already before the abolishment of Matica and influenced by the dialect spoken in Martin. In 1902, Samuel Czambel published new language standard. Czambel's codification favored the forms used in spoken language to archaisms from Hattala's codification and synchronized spoken and literal language. Czambel's codification was partially revised and extended by Jozef Škultéty (1915, 1919).\n\nWith the establishment of Czechoslovakia in 1918, Slovak becomes an official language for the first time in history (along with the Czech language). The Czechoslovak Constitution of 1920 and the constitutional law on minorities which was adopted alongside the constitution on the same day, established the \"Czechoslovak language\" as an official language Since the Czechoslovak language did not exist, the law recognized its two variations (Czech and Slovak). Czech should be \"usually\" used in administration in the Czech lands, Slovak \"usually\" in Slovakia. In practice, the position of languages was not equal. Along with political reasons, this situation was caused by a different historical experience and numerous Czech teachers and clerks in Slovakia, who helped to restore the educational system and administration (since Slovaks educated in the Slovak language were missing).\n\nIn 1931, Matica slovenská published a new Slovak language standard prepared by a Czech scientist Václav Vážný, the head of Department of Linguistics of Matica. In contrast with older works (including those published in Czechoslovakia), the standard had an official character and was approved and recommended by the Ministry of Education led by a Slovak minister Ivan Dérer). The standard was inspired by the official ideology of Czechoslovakism and tried to align both languages by the codification of numerous Czech words and forms not existing in Slovak. The standard raised large negative reactions and the board of Matica had to promise its revision. Although a new official standard was not published before the break-up of Czechoslovakia (1939), a new \"standard\" (practice) of Matica was used along with Vážný's standard.\n\nThe six-volume \"Dictionary of the Slovak Language\" (SSJ) is published during 1959–1968 (online version) The Constitutional Law of Federation in 1968 confirmed equal rights for the Slovak and the Czech languages in the federation.\n\nCzechoslovakia splits into Slovakia and the Czech Republic. The Slovak language becomes the official language of Slovakia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29574973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29574973", "title": "Immigrant investor programs", "text": "Immigrant investor programs\n\nImmigrant investor programs are programs designed to attract foreign capital and business people by providing the right of residence and citizenship in return. These are also known as citizenship-by-investment programs or Golden Visa program. While several countries currently offer investors citizenship or residence in return for an economic investment, the concept is relatively new and was only brought to the focus around 2006.\n\nImmigrant investor programs usually have multiple criteria that must be fulfilled for the investment to qualify, often pertaining to job creation, purchasing of real estate, non-refundable contributions or specific targeted industries. Most of these programs are structured to ensure that the investment contributes to the welfare, advancement and economic development of the country in which they wish to reside or belong to. It is more often more about making an economic contribution than just an investment. The U.S. EB-5 visa program requires overseas applicants to invest a minimum of anywhere from $500,000 to $1 million, depending on the location of project, and requires at least 10 jobs to be either created or preserved. When these criteria are met, the applicant and their family become eligible for a green card. There is an annual cap of 10,000 applications under the EB-5 program.\n\nThe Malta Individual Investor Programme, which Henley & Partners was contracted in 2014 by the Government of Malta to design and implement, is similarly capped at 1,800 applicants. Applicants are subject to a thorough due diligence process which guarantees that only reputable applicants acquire Maltese citizenship. Moreover, applications from countries where international sanctions apply may not be accepted. Applications from a particular country can also be excluded on the basis of a Government policy decision. The minimum investment for this program is $870,000 with a non-refundable contribution of $700,000. \n\nA large majority of users of such programs are wealthy Chinese seeking legal security and a better quality of life outside of their home country. More than three-quarters of the applicants to Canada's (since canceled) immigrant investor program were Chinese. Money laundering scandals involving banks in Malta and Latvia have made citizenship schemes more contentious by drawing attention to the lack of controls on Russian funds entering EU countries. \nThe Quebec Immigrant Investor Program is a Canadian program which allows investors who intend to settle in the province of Quebec to invest money in Canada. \nThe Quebec government said it would accept a maximum of 1,750 applications to the Immigrant Investor Program during the period of January 5 to 20, 2015. Applicants with an intermediate-advanced aptitude in French are not subject to the cap and may apply at any time. The program has been associated with the lack of housing affordability in Vancouver.\n\nThe countries with the top ranked immigrant investor programs in the world are Malta, Cyprus, Portugal, Austria, the United Kingdom, the United States, Canada, Antigua and Barbuda, Saint Kitts and Nevis, Spain, Latvia, Monaco, Bulgaria, Ukraine, Grenada, Abkhazia, Saint Lucia, Australia, Hong Kong, Singapore and Dominica.\n\nGolden Visas represent only a small proportion of new passports. In 2016, 994,800 citizenship applicants were granted across the EU, according to Eurostat, with just 0.1 percent of applications made under investment schemes.\nThe visas with a minimum threshold can be obtained in:\n\n"}
{"id": "148099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148099", "title": "Installation art", "text": "Installation art\n\nInstallation art is an artistic genre of three-dimensional works that often are site-specific and designed to transform the perception of a space. Generally, the term is applied to interior spaces, whereas exterior interventions are often called public art, land art or intervention art; however, the boundaries between these terms overlap.\n\nInstallation art can be either temporary or permanent. Installation artworks have been constructed in exhibition spaces such as museums and galleries, as well as public and private spaces. The genre incorporates a broad range of everyday and natural materials, which are often chosen for their \"evocative\" qualities, as well as new media such as video, sound, performance, immersive virtual reality and the internet. Many installations are site-specific in that they are designed to exist only in the space for which they were created, appealing to qualities evident in a three-dimensional immersive medium. Artistic collectives such as the Exhibition Lab at New York's American Museum of Natural History created environments to showcase the natural world in as realistic a medium as possible. Likewise, Walt Disney Imagineering employed a similar philosophy when designing the multiple immersive spaces for Disneyland in 1955. Since its acceptance as a separate discipline, a number of institutions focusing on Installation art were created. These included the Mattress Factory, Pittsburgh, the Museum of Installation in London, and the Fairy Doors of Ann Arbor, MI, among others.\n\nInstallation art came to prominence in the 1970s but its roots can be identified in earlier artists such as Marcel Duchamp and his use of the readymade and Kurt Schwitters' \"Merz\" art objects, rather than more traditional craft based sculpture. The \"intention\" of the artist is paramount in much later installation art whose roots lie in the conceptual art of the 1960s. This again is a departure from traditional sculpture which places its focus on form. Early non-Western installation art includes events staged by the Gutai group in Japan starting in 1954, which influenced American installation pioneers like Allan Kaprow.\nWolf Vostell shows his installation \"6 TV Dé-coll/age\" in 1963 at the Smolin Gallery in New York.\n\n\"Installation\" as nomenclature for a specific form of art came into use fairly recently; its first use as documented by the Oxford English Dictionary was in 1969. It was coined in this context, in reference to a form of art that had arguably existed since prehistory but was not regarded as a discrete category until the mid-twentieth century. Allan Kaprow used the term \"Environment\" in 1958 (Kaprow 6) to describe his transformed indoor spaces; this later joined such terms as \"project art\" and \"temporary art.\"\n\nEssentially, installation/environmental art takes into account a broader sensory experience, rather than floating framed points of focus on a \"neutral\" wall or displaying isolated objects (literally) on a pedestal. This may leave space and time as its only dimensional constants, implying dissolution of the line between \"art\" and \"life\"; Kaprow noted that \"if we bypass 'art' and take nature itself as a model or point of departure, we may be able to devise a different kind of art... out of the sensory stuff of ordinary life\".\n\nThe conscious act of artistically addressing all the senses with regard to a total experience made a resounding debut in 1849 when Richard Wagner conceived of a \"Gesamtkunstwerk\", or an operatic work for the stage that drew inspiration from ancient Greek theater in its inclusion of all the major art forms: painting, writing, music, etc. (Britannica). In devising operatic works to commandeer the audience's senses, Wagner left nothing unobserved: architecture, ambience, and even the audience itself were considered and manipulated in order to achieve a state of total artistic immersion. In the book \"Themes in Contemporary Art\", it is suggested that \"installations in the 1980s and 1990s were increasingly characterized by networks of operations involving the interaction among complex architectural settings, environmental sites and extensive use of everyday objects in ordinary contexts. With the advent of video in 1965, a concurrent strand of installation evolved through the use of new and ever-changing technologies, and what had been simple video installations expanded to include complex interactive, multimedia and virtual reality environments\".\n\nIn \"Art and Objecthood\", Michael Fried derisively labels art that acknowledges the viewer as \"theatrical\" (Fried 45). There is a strong parallel between installation and theater: both play to a viewer who is expected to be at once immersed in the sensory/narrative experience that surrounds him and maintain a degree of self-identity as a viewer. The traditional theater-goer does not forget that he has come in from outside to sit and take in a created experience; a trademark of installation art has been the curious and eager viewer, still aware that he is in an exhibition setting and tentatively exploring the novel universe of the installation.\n\nThe artist and critic Ilya Kabakov mentions this essential phenomenon in the introduction to his lectures \"On the \"Total\" Installation\": \"[One] is simultaneously both a 'victim' and a viewer, who on the one hand surveys and evaluates the installation, and on the other, follows those associations, recollections which arise in him[;] he is overcome by the intense atmosphere of the total illusion\". Here installation art bestows an unprecedented importance on the observer's inclusion in that which he observes. The expectations and social habits that the viewer takes with him into the space of the installation will remain with him as he enters, to be either applied or negated once he has taken in the new environment. What is common to nearly all installation art is a consideration of the experience in toto and the problems it may present, namely the constant conflict between disinterested criticism and sympathetic involvement. Television and video offer somewhat immersive experiences, but their unrelenting control over the rhythm of passing time and the arrangement of images precludes an intimately personal viewing experience. Ultimately, the only things a viewer can be assured of when experiencing the work are his own thoughts and preconceptions and the basic rules of space and time. All else may be molded by the artist's hands.\n\nThe central importance of the subjective point of view when experiencing installation art, points toward a disregard for traditional Platonic image theory. In effect, the entire installation adopts the character of the simulacrum or flawed statue: it neglects any ideal form in favor of optimizing its direct appearance to the observer. Installation art operates fully within the realm of sensory perception, in a sense \"installing\" the viewer into an artificial system with an appeal to his subjective perception as its ultimate goal.\n\nAn interactive installation frequently involves the audience acting on the work of art or the piece responding to users' activity. There are several kinds of interactive installations that artists produce, these include web-based installations (e.g., Telegarden), gallery-based installations, digital-based installations, electronic-based installations, mobile-based installations, etc. Interactive installations appeared mostly at end of the 1980s (\"Legible City\" by Jeffrey Shaw, \"La plume\" by Edmond Couchot, Michel Bret...) and became a genre during the 1990s, when artists became particularly interested in using the participation of the audiences to activate and reveal the meaning of the installation.\n\nWith the improvement of technology over the years, artists are more able to explore outside of the boundaries that were never able to be explored by artists in the past. The media used are more experimental and bold; they are also usually cross media and may involve sensors, which plays on the reaction to the audiences' movement when looking at the installations. By using virtual reality as a medium, immersive virtual reality art is probably the most deeply interactive form of art. By allowing the spectator to \"visit\" the representation, the artist creates \"situations to live\" vs \"spectacle to watch\".\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14917316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14917316", "title": "International Journal of Public Opinion Research", "text": "International Journal of Public Opinion Research\n\nThe International Journal of Public Opinion Research (IJPOR) is a quarterly social science journal sponsored by the World Association for Public Opinion Research (WAPOR) and published by Oxford University Press.\n\nSince 1994, WAPOR bestows the Robert M. Worcester Prize for \"outstanding\" publication in \"IJPOR\";\namong prior recipients of the prize is communications researcher Dietram Scheufele.\n\n"}
{"id": "38120193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38120193", "title": "Japanese imperial year", "text": "Japanese imperial year\n\nThe or \"national calendar year\" is a unique calendar system in Japan. It is based on the legendary foundation of Japan by Emperor Jimmu in 660 BC. \"Kōki\" emphasizes the long history of Japan and the Imperial dynasty.\n\n\"Kōki\" dating was used as early as 1872, shortly after Japan adopted the Gregorian calendar system, and was popular during the life of the Meiji Constitution (1890–1947).\n\nThe Summer Olympics and Tokyo Expo were planned as anniversary events in 1940 (\"Kōki 2600\"); but the international games were not held because of the Second Sino-Japanese War. \n\nThe Imperial Japanese Army (IJA) and Imperial Japanese Navy (IJN) used the \"Kōki\" system for identification. For example many Japanese names circa World War II use imperial years:\n\nThe Proclamation of Indonesian Independence (1945) used the imperial year (\"Kōki 2605\").\n\nIn Japan today, the system of counting years from the reign of Emperor Jimmu has been officially abandoned.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1240590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1240590", "title": "Kalesa", "text": "Kalesa\n\nA kalesa (also known as \"carromata\", \"caritela\" or \"karitela\") is a horse-drawn calash used in the Philippines. It was one mode of transportation introduced to the islands in the 18th century by Spanish colonizers, and was initially reserved for only nobles and high-ranking civic officials. They are rarely used in the streets today, except in the tourist-frequented areas of old cities and some rural areas.\n\nComposer Ambrosio Del Rosario composed the original music and National Artist of the Philippines Levi Celério wrote the lyrics for a song entitled \"Kalesa\", in honour of the vehicle.\n\nThe word, also spelt \"calesa\" as in the original Spanish, is related to the terms \"calèche\" and was already in Spain prior to its colonisation of the islands. The term ultimately descends from a Czech word meaning \"wheelwork\" (related to Russian колесо \"wheel\").\n\nA \"kalesa\" looks like an inclined cart, and is drawn by a single horse. It has two round wheels on each side and two rows of seats that can accommodate four persons. The driver sits on a block of wood located at the front of the cart near the horse.\n\nWhen the kalesa was introduced in the 18th century, it grew into a significant mode of transportation in the islands. Rich, educated Filipinos known as the \"ilustrados\" used the kalesa for personal travel as well as for the transport of goods to nearby areas. During the American Occupation, the City of Manila was teeming with kalesas, but these declined in popularity after the devastation of the Second World War.\n\nThe kalesa driver is commonly called as \"kutsero\" (Tagalised from \"cochero\", \"car driver\"). When a \"kutsero\" wants the horse to turn right, he says \"\"mano\"” while he says \"\"silla\"” to make the horse turn left.\n\nAlthough the kalesa has become a rarity, century-old examples are still preserved in areas of the Philippines, such as in Vigan and Laoag. Kalesas can also be found in Intramuros, where they cater to tourists and Binondo in Manila, as well as in Iligan, where decorated kalesas can be taken for a ride along a specific street. In Cagayan, kalesas are common, especially in Tuao and other municipalities of the province. In Tuguegarao, the carriages are a part of the traffic along with private cars, motorcycles, tricycles, jeepneys, trucks, and bicycles.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17752353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17752353", "title": "Last Orgy of the Third Reich", "text": "Last Orgy of the Third Reich\n\nLast Orgy of the Third Reich (Italian: L'ultima orgia del III Reich), also known as La ultima orgia del la Gestapo (The Gestapo's Last Orgy) and Caligula Reincarnated as Hitler, is a 1977 Italian Nazi exploitation film produced, directed and co-written by Cesare Canevari. It stars Adriano Micantoni (billed as Marc Loud) and Daniela Poggi (billed as Daniela Levy).\n\nThe film begins with a man named Conrad von Starke (Adriano Micantoni) the Commandant driving down a road, listening to a war crimes trial on the radio. He stops the car and exits at the ruins of an old death camp. There he meets Lise Cohen (Daniela Poggi). It is revealed that Lise is a former prisoner of the camp and the commandant has arranged to meet her several years after World War II, to thank her for testimony she provided which saved him from certain death. Lise and the Commandant make love. \n\nLise has a flashback to the time she spent at the camp during the war. A shipment of female prisoners arrives. Some are immediately sent to the gas chamber and some burned alive. In a hall, other women are stripped naked and subjected to an orgy by members of the SS-Totenkopfverbände, aroused after watching a porn film which includes photos of rape, mother-daughter incest, bondage, coprophagia, and extreme sex. The female inmates are then raped, tortured, sodomized with bats, and sexually humiliated while the Commandant and his lover Alma (Maristella Greco), a fellow SS officer, watch in excitement. \n\nLater, a woman has sex with an SS guard, who is himself shot when he speaks out against her rape by other guards. An inmate having her menstrual cycle is ordered to be thrown to the dogs by Alma, and more sex scenes between guards and inmates take place. \n\nMeanwhile, Starke and his SS staff debate Nazi theories at the dinner table, and an SS Guard tells them of his hopes that there will one day be farms so the Jews can be eaten as a food source. The staff become aroused by this and practice both cannibalism and infanticide, eating a stew made of unborn Jewish infants. When one of the female prisoners passes out in shock, they douse her body in brandy and set it alight, before eating her corpse as well.\n\nStarke becomes interested in Lise, finding himself obsessed by her unbreakable spirit. Since whatever he does to torture her does not demoralize her, Starke grows angry and drops her only friend at the camp into a pit of quicklime as Lise, stripped nude and hanging from her wrists, is forced to watch. The Commandant threatens to drop Lise into the pit as well. Unfazed by this, Lise is whipped, has her head lowered into a box filled with rats (clearly gerbils in the film), and raped, but still she does not cry out. She goes to the hospital and is treated by a pacifistic young Doctor (Fulvio Ricciardi), revealing to him why she does not cry. She wants to die, as she betrayed her family to the Nazis years earlier and feels intense guilt about it. When the Doctor tells her it was not her fault, she becomes determined to survive. She has sex with the Doctor, reaffirming her decision to live. \n\nLise is tortured further by Starke, who tells her he has fallen in love with her. She claims to love him as well, and begins an extreme sexual relationship with him, willingly donning a gruesome belt made of the scalps of fellow inmates to prove her affections. The Commandant is later sodomized with his own whip by jealous Alma, who realizes the extent of Starke's feelings for Lise. In response, he fatally strangles Alma.\n\nLise gives birth to a child, but the baby is killed by the Commandant because it is half-Jewish, and a \"half-breed\" would have no place in the world. Back in the present day, Lise and Starke still stand in the ruined camp and are having sex. Lise shoots him and his body falls into a pit. In alternate edits of the film, Lise shoots Starke and then herself.\n\n"}
{"id": "8224087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8224087", "title": "List of angels in theology", "text": "List of angels in theology\n\nThis is a list of angels in theology, including both specific angels (e.g. Gabriel) and types of angels (e.g. Seraphim).\n\nNote that some overlap is to be expected with the list of theological demons entry, since various traditions have different classifications for the spirits they mention. \n\n"}
{"id": "43674629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43674629", "title": "List of cooking appliances", "text": "List of cooking appliances\n\nThis is a list of cooking appliances that are used for cooking foods.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2020649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2020649", "title": "Luxury box", "text": "Luxury box\n\nLuxury boxes and club seating constitute the most exclusive class of seating in arenas and stadiums, and generate much higher revenues than regular seating. Club ticketholders often receive exclusive access to an indoor part of the venue through private club entrances, to areas containing special restaurants, bars, merchandise stands, and lounge areas of the venue that are not otherwise available to regular ticketholders.\n\nThese special private seating sections located within stadiums, arenas, and other sporting and entertainment venues, are typically located in the midsection and/or main stand or grandstand, usually providing the best views of the event. Some have glass panels that can be opened, in order for the spectators to feel closer to and more immersed in the action of the event. However at some tennis venues (where stadiums are smaller) the luxury boxes might be located at the lowest ring of seats, nearest to the playing court.\n\nThe inside of a luxury box typically includes a bar, televisions, a small seating area, and a private bathroom. The boxes are usually catered, with guests enjoying corporate hospitality, with champagne, canapés, shrimp, and sushi being common favorites. The lease to a box usually comes with allocated parking spaces at the venue and access is usually provided with separate entrances, away from the general public gates.\n\nLuxury boxes are a significant source of revenue for most professional sports teams and venue owners. Since the late 1990s, it has been proven that luxury suites and club seating are lucrative revenue-generating features that make pro sports teams financially successful in order to remain competitive long-term. While originally widespread among North American major pro sports, this trend is also gaining popularity in Europe. For instance, Emirates Stadium's revenue from premium seating and corporate boxes alone is nearly as high as the revenue from Arsenal F.C.'s previous stadium at Highbury.\n\nParticularly in North American major professional sports leagues, luxury suite revenue does not have to be shared unlike gate receipts which are split with visiting teams, leading to teams demanding new venues that contain more luxury boxes.\n\nMost luxury suites are leased by contract on a yearly basis, though some are bought in a manner similar to that for a condominium. These methods usually grant access to the box by the leaseholder or owner for every event held at the venue. A few venues rent them on a per-event basis. Prices vary from US$5,000 up to the millions of dollars depending on the venue and events held there.\n\nSome have commented that the rise of the luxury box, along with club seating, has degraded the game-day experience for the average fan, because placement of the boxes has moved the upper decks higher and farther away from the playing surface. Three current North American venues, Ford Field, Red Bull Arena, and Levi's Stadium, have addressed these concerns by placing all luxury boxes on one side of the playing surface, which allows the other sides of the venue to have closer sightlines than most modern venues. State Farm Arena in Atlanta formerly had all of its premium seating on one side of the arena; however, renovations that took place during 2017 removed the upper level luxury boxes to be replaced with a traditional upper deck and premium seating spread throughout the arena.\n\nLuxury boxes that are rented on a single event basis can range from US$500 for low-key events to up to at least US$250,000 for high-end events such as sporting final matches. Also, the location of the box and how many people the box can hold usually makes up the price. Standing room tickets may also be purchased at an additional fee but are usually less money than an actual suite ticket. If a normal box ticket with a seat costs US$500 per ticket then standing room tickets might be around US$250–US$300 per ticket. These tickets will allow more people in a box, but they won't have seats and will have to stand in the box or sit in the lounge area.\n\nAverage private box rental prices for events vary based on location, matchup, and venue. Typical luxury boxes for most events fall within the following price ranges:\n\nThe stadium with the most luxury boxes is the Estadio Monumental \"U\" in Lima, Peru: with 1,251. The first stadium to contain a luxury box was the Astrodome in Houston, Texas, built in 1965. The Indianapolis Motor Speedway constructed their first luxury boxes (dubbed the \"Turn Two Suites\") in 1973 as part of the existing motel complex on the grounds. One unique set of luxury boxes is located on the campus of Boston College. The school's main indoor arena, Conte Forum (also known as Kelley Rink for hockey games), is directly attached to its football venue, Alumni Stadium. Some of the luxury boxes in the combined complex overlook both the stadium's playing field and the arena floor. The University of South Dakota later borrowed Boston College's concept when it built the Sanford Coyote Sports Center, which opened in 2016 as the new home for the school's basketball and volleyball teams. Several boxes at the Sports Center allow their users to watch games at both the arena and the attached DakotaDome, home to USD football.\n\nLuxury boxes have become a feature of the major professional sports league system in North America. The Palace of Auburn Hills' large number of luxury suites was a pioneer for the building boom of modern-style NBA arenas in the 1990s. The Detroit Pistons played in The Palace from its opening in 1988 through the 2016–17 season, by which time it was one of the NBA's oldest arenas. Nonetheless, The Palace's forward-thinking design contained the amenities that most NBA teams sought in newer arenas. The Pistons moved to the new Little Caesars Arena in midtown Detroit for the 2017–18 season, by which time only one of the five other NBA venues that opened in the 1988–89 season was still in use—the Bradley Center, which was replaced in 2018 by Fiserv Forum and is soon to be demolished. Three of those five have been demolished (Amway Arena, Charlotte Coliseum, and Miami Arena), and the other, Sleep Train Arena, was replaced in 2016.\n\nTop-tier European pro association football teams have moved to new stadiums designed with a large number of luxury boxes, such as Benfica, Bayern Munich, Arsenal, and Juventus. Other clubs such as Real Madrid and Manchester United have extensively renovated their existing stadiums to add large numbers of luxury boxes.\n\nMost notable in their use of luxury boxes is the National Football League. Under the NFL's current revenue sharing agreement, teams must forfeit a large portion of their ticket revenues so that the funds can be redistributed among all the teams, particularly those in smaller markets. However, the luxury boxes, quickly becoming a top source of revenue for the franchises, were exempted from this sharing requirement.\n\nFurthermore, the NFL's blackout rule has led stadium operators to sacrifice seating capacity in favor of the luxury boxes, as it makes a sell-out easier with a lower total number of regular seats. Teams have used the threat of relocation to press state and local governments for financial assistance to either build new stadiums or renovate older venues.\n\nClub seating, club-level seating, or premium seating is a special section of seating in modern sports stadiums and arenas. These may be known by different terms, such as \"Legends Suite seats\" at Yankee Stadium or \"Platinum Club\" at the Air Canada Centre. Club-level seating is open to the elements, as opposed to the entirely enclosed luxury boxes, which gives more of an outdoor impression at roofless and open-roof stadiums and arenas. Club-level seating is typically considered a more exclusive class of seating than elsewhere in the venue, other than the luxury boxes.\n\nClub-level seating can either be sold as individual tickets, or marketed on a contract basis (similar to luxury suites) to allow for maximum profit on the part of the venue. This gives club seats more flexibility for individuals and small companies, while luxury boxes can typically only be leased by large corporations willing to pay around $500,000 USD or higher a year. Like luxury suites, club seating generates much higher revenues than regular seating.\n\nWhile luxury boxes and personal seat licenses have been around since the 1960s, club-level seating is a recent innovation of the 1990s. The mid-stage is the optimal placement for luxury boxes in order to give them good sightlines to make them attractive for lessees, however only a limited number of luxury boxes can be placed there, as adding too many mid-level boxes will reduce seating capacity and degrade the viewing experience for other parts of the venue. For the area/stadium designer, club-level seating can be implemented in the middle tier at lower cost and less space than having all luxury boxes.\n\nClub levels normally provide fans several additional amenities than standard seating. The seats themselves are often wider and more comfortable than regular seats. The club level provides fans with special access to an indoor part of the venue exclusive to fans with special tickets. These areas are air conditioned and allow access to special restaurants, merchandise stands, and lounge areas of the venue that are not otherwise available to standard ticketholders. Concession stands and vendors on the club level also often offer different menus than in other stands to give more of a special feel to the club. These areas are closed off to the rest of the venue, and they usually can only be accessed through the exclusive, private club entrances. Parking and concierge service are often available to club levels. The ratio of toilets to fans is considerably higher in the club level than general seating, avoiding the long washroom lineups that plague regular admission fans.\n\nThe club level is usually located towards the middle of the stage of seating sections, above the lower deck but below the upper deck. They are usually situated near the luxury boxes, whether right above, right below, or sandwiched between two levels of luxury boxes. Unlike some luxury box levels, most club levels do not wrap entirely around the venue. Some club levels stop at a certain point, giving way to an expansion of the mezzanine, while others give way to lower-class luxury boxes (such as \"party suites\"). A notable exception to this is Emirates Stadium in London, which has a complete tier of club seating. Some venues such as the MetLife Stadium have luxury suites that are not completely enclosed and come with exposed seats similar to those at club level.\n"}
{"id": "709530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=709530", "title": "Orthopraxy", "text": "Orthopraxy\n\nIn the study of religion, orthopraxy is correct conduct, both ethical and liturgical, as opposed to faith or grace etc. This contrasts with orthodoxy, which emphasizes correct belief, and ritualism, the practice of rituals. The word is a neoclassical compound— (\"orthopraxia\") meaning 'correct practice'.\n\nWhile orthodoxies make use of codified beliefs, in the form of creeds, and ritualism more narrowly centers on the strict adherence to prescribed rites or rituals, orthopraxy is focused on issues of family, cultural integrity, the transmission of tradition, sacrificial offerings, concerns of purity, ethical system, and the enforcement thereof.\n\nTypically, traditional or folk religions (paganism, animism) are more concerned with orthopraxy than orthodoxy, and some argue that equating the term \"faith\" with \"religion\" presents a Christian-biased notion of what the primary characteristic of religion is. This contrasts with the case of (for example) Hinduism, in which orthopraxy and ritualism are not easily disentangled.\n\nFrom the Greek \"orthos\" \"straight\" + \"praxis\" \"action\", first used in 1851, there are two versions of the term: \"orthopraxis\" and \"orthopraxy\". \"Orthopraxy\" is the older and more common term, and is parallel to \"orthodoxy\".\n\nAlthough traditionally Christianity is seen as primarily orthodoxical (as in the Nicene Creed's \"I believe in ...\"), some Christian denominations and leaders today, from Roman Catholic to Evangelical Christians, have started to describe their religions as both orthodoxical and orthopraxic. The premise is correct belief compels correct action, and incorrect action is caused by incorrect beliefs.\n\nTaking this combination of \"correct belief\" and \"correct action\" a step further, prosperity theology, found in charismatic and Pentecostal traditions, teaches correct religious belief and behavior receives material reward and physical healing, in addition to being a necessary component for accepting God's grace. Prosperity theology is a concept known as reciprocity when discussing traditional or ethnic religions such as that in Ancient Greece, but is limited to correct behavior over any one theological idea.\n\nThe applicability of biblical law in Christianity is disputed. Most Christians believe that some or all of the Ten Commandments are still binding or have been reinstituted in the law of Christ. A minority of Christians are Torah-observant and at the other extreme are antinomian and Christian anarchistic views.\n\nPraxis is a key to understanding the Byzantine tradition, which is observed by the Eastern Orthodox Church and some Eastern Catholic Churches. This is because praxis is the basis of the understanding of faith and works as conjoint, without separating the two. The importance of praxis, in the sense of action, is indicated in the dictum of Saint Maximus the Confessor: \"Theology without action is the theology of demons.\"\n\nUnion with God, to which Christians hold that Jesus invited man, requires not just faith, but correct practice of faith. This idea is found in the Scriptures (1 Cor 11:2,\n2 Thes 2:14) and the Church Fathers, and is linked with the term \"praxis\" in Byzantine theology and vocabulary. In the context of Orthodoxy, praxis is mentioned opposite theology, in the sense of 'theory and practice'. Rather, it is a word that means, globally, all that Orthodox \"do\". Praxis is 'living Orthodoxy'.\n\nPraxis is perhaps most strongly associated with worship. \"Orthopraxis\" is said to mean \"right glory\" or \"right worship\"; only correct (or proper) practice, particularly correct worship, is understood as establishing the fulness glory given to God. This is one of the primary purposes of liturgy (divine labor), the work of the people. Some Byzantine sources maintain that in the West, Christianity has been reduced \"to intellectual, ethical or social categories,\" whereas right worship is fundamentally important in our relationship to God, forming the faithful into the Body of Christ and providing the path to \"true religious education.\" A \"symbiosis of worship and work\" is considered to be inherent in Byzantine praxis.\n\nIn the case of Hinduism orthopraxy and ritualism are conflated. Emphasis on ritual vs. personal salvation (\"moksha\") was a major division in classical Hindu philosophy, epitomized by Purva Mimamsa vs. Uttara Mimamsa (Vedanta).\n\nRitual (\"puja\") continues to play a central role in contemporary Hinduism, but the enormous complexity of ancient ritual (\"yajna\") only survives in a tiny minority of Shrauta practitioners. Even Hindus who diligently practice a subset of prescribed rituals are called orthoprax, to contrast them with other Hindus who insist on the importance of correct belief or understanding. The correctness of one's interpretation of the scripture is then considered less important than following traditions. For example, Srinivasa Ramanujan was a well-known example of an orthoprax Hindu.\n\nIn terms of \"proper conduct\" and other ethical precepts within the Hindu framework, the core belief involves the divinity of each individual soul (\"jivatma\"). Each person harbors this \"indwelling God (divinity)\"; thus, conduct which unifies society and facilitates progress is emphasized. Self-centered existence is discouraged as a result of this \"jivatma\" concept. The Uttara Mimamsa philosophical school explicates this concept eloquently. Moreover, within the context of Uttara Mimamsa the role of \"puja\" (ritual) also involves bringing the individual \"jivatma\" closer to the \"Paramatma\" (the Transcendent Divinity or God). Individuals who have attained this merging then become the spiritual guides to the community. Later developments within the Hindu religious and philosophic tradition thus try to unify these concepts of ritual, proper conduct, and personal salvation instead of leaving them in mutually conflicting terms. The movement inspired by Pandurang Shastri Athavale termed \"Swadhyaya\" seems to be one manifestation of this syncretism. However, other movements within the contemporary Hindu scene are also moving towards this union of external activity and internal development.\n\nIslam generally stresses orthopraxy over orthodoxy, but since the practice is held to come from doctrine, this is essentially orthodoxy applied to practice.\n\nJain orthopraxy is based on two factors: Jain siddhanta (teachings of the Tirthankara) and \"kriya\" (practices prevalent at the time of the Tirthankaras). According to Jains, the Tirthankaras based their teachings and philosophy after knowing the realities on this universe (like \"dravya\" and \"tattva\"). Based on these realities, they propounded true and eternal principles like \"ahimsa\", truth, karma etc. that govern the universe. Jain rituals were codified on the basis of these principles to give effect to the teachings of the Tirthankaras.\n\nJudaism attaches primary importance to the practice of the \"mitzvot\", and that each act of daily life comply with the ethical and ritual teachings of the Torah. However, these gestures are intended to be motivated by the system of values and ethics of which they are a part, so that orthodoxy is not seen as simply a way of thinking according to established dogmas.\nMoreover, Maimonides codifies his 13 principles of faith as a binding theological dogma, and according to Maimonides some laws of the Torah require the acceptance of certain basic beliefs, such as the first and second positive commandments in Maimonides' Sefer Hamitzvot, which mandate the belief in God and his indivisible unity, or the recitation of the Shema. Maimonides' codification of Jewish law even contains a section entitled \"Yesodei HaTorah\" which delineates the required beliefs of Judaism.\n\nAnd yet, there is a small group of Jews in the orthodox world who argue that the nature of Judaism is orthoprax, such as Jeffrey Radon, a teacher of Jewish studies who has an internet site Orthoprax Judaism devoted to Jewish studies in a democratic spirit, and Israel Drazin, a former army chaplain and rabbi who recently came out in support of the idea that the nature of Judaism is orthoprax. Radon argues that Maimonides codification of principles of belief as a binding theological dogma was not only an innovation but a distortion of the ancient Jewish tradition based upon the Bible and the Talmud (and that Maimonides was aware that his codification of a binding dogma was a distortion, and he codified such a dogma only for the unlearned Jewish masses to strengthen them as Christians and Muslims had codified such dogma) as there is no binding theological dogma in the Bible or in the Talmudic literature (and fundamental beliefs of the Bible or Talmudic literature do not have the status of binding dogma), and the commandments of the Torah as the basis of Jewish law are according to Jewish tradition commandments of doing and not doing (and not of believing or not believing).\n\nBritish Traditional Wicca is highly orthopraxic, with \"traditions\" (as denominations in Wicca are called) being precisely that—defined by what is traditionally done, rather than shared beliefs. Other Neopagans may or may not share this quality, as noted by James R. Lewis, who draws a distinction between \"Religious Neo-Pagans\" and \"God/dess Celebrants.\" Lewis states the majority of the Neopagan movement is strongly opposed to Religionist traditions that incorporate any form of orthopraxy or orthodoxy. In fact, many Neopagan organizations, when discussing orthopraxy, limit themselves solely to ritualism.\n\nReconstructionist religions make full use of orthopraxy, defining their practices as a lifestyle, and identifying correct action as living life in accord with specific ideals and principles, rather than focusing solely on ritual or promoting a single cosmology, metaphysical idea, or theological theory as absolute truth.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25808103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25808103", "title": "Pants on the Ground", "text": "Pants on the Ground\n\n\"Pants on the Ground\" is a novelty/protest song which, in 2010, became the first single that civil rights activist \"General\" Larry Platt, who co-wrote it, released. The song is meant to protest the practice of sagging. It was released on American King Music on February 4, 2010. The song became an internet meme after being performed during the Atlanta audition for \"American Idol\" that aired on January 13, 2010.\n\nThe song was first performed in 2001 by \"General\" Larry Platt in the streets of Atlanta during many campaigns for elected municipal officials across the city of Atlanta, and he had professionally recorded it as early as 2002. The \"General\" is also known for performing the song publicly in events and functions around the city of Atlanta including a live performance at the Sweet Auburn Heritage Festival in October 2009 and Centennial Olympic Park in 2008. Platt was encouraged to perform the song during the ninth \"American Idol\" season auditions by civil rights activist Sally Harley. After he performed the song in response to her encouragement, it gained popularity as a viral hit. Platt's former manager Jason Mills released the studio version of the song, without Platt's consent. The single version of the song was released on February 4, 2010 by American King Music for MP3 download where the song has reportedly sold more than 260,000 downloads. Platt has been offered deals by several labels including Melee Entertainment, Jake Records and others have also entered negotiations with Larry Platt to produce a single of the hit song, but due to the unauthorized distribution of the song by American King Music it has been difficult to navigate. It was reported that Platt's former manager Jason Mills intended to promote the song servicing radio stations to gain exposure, which is a common music industry practice. Platt has since secured new management under a firm based in Atlanta headed up by Earl Little.\n\nSeveral celebrities performed the song in the days that followed the original airing of Platt's audition. This included late night talk show host Jimmy Fallon, who performed a version of the song while also impersonating Neil Young on his show \"Late Night with Jimmy Fallon.\" NFL quarterback and Green Bay Packers legend, Brett Favre, was also caught leading the Minnesota Vikings in a performance of the song in their locker room following their game against the Dallas Cowboys in the 2009–10 NFL playoffs. \"Today Show\" hosts Meredith Vieira, Matt Lauer, Al Roker and Ann Curry also organized a performance of the song. Canadian MLA T.J. Burke also performed a rendition of the song in criticizing Progressive Conservative opposition leader David Alward during a session of the New Brunswick provincial legislature. Platt himself made a subsequent appearance on ABC's \"The View\" on January 18, 2010, where he performed the song in its entirety. \"Pants on the Ground\" was also sung on WWE's Royal Rumble 2010 PPV event, in a backstage segment between Teddy Long, Cryme Tyme, Ranjin Singh, and The Great Khali. Tyler Perry, in character as Mabel \"Madea\" Simmons, performed the Madea remix to this song in the play \"Madea's Big Happy Family,\" which he had written for the stage.\n\nPlatt performed the song outside the Grammys.\n\nThe song was performed at the \"American Idol\" Finale by Platt, accompanied by William Hung and a crew of dancers who dropped their pants as part of the act.\n\nDuring some concerts, Florida-based Christian rock band Among the Thirsty performs a verse from \"Pants on the Ground\" during the song \"One Sound.\"\n\nThe song returned to \"American Idol\" on April 7, 2016 for a short moment during the series finale as an interjection performance while \"No\" by Meghan Trainor was sung by other \"American Idol\" alumni.\n\n"}
{"id": "19943944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19943944", "title": "Persecution of people with albinism", "text": "Persecution of people with albinism\n\nPersecution of people with albinism (sometimes abbreviated PWA) is based on the belief that certain body parts of albinistic people can transmit magical powers. Such superstition is present especially in some parts of the African Great Lakes region, it has been promulgated and exploited by witch doctors and others who use such body parts as ingredients in rituals, concoctions and potions with the claim that their magic will bring prosperity to the user (\"muti\" or medicine murder).\n\nAs a result, people with albinism have been persecuted, killed and dismembered, and graves of albinos dug up and desecrated. At the same time, people with albinism have also been ostracised and even killed for exactly the opposite reason, because they are presumed to be cursed and bring bad luck. The persecutions of people with albinism take place mostly in Sub-Saharan African communities, especially among East Africans.\n\nAlbinism is a genetically inherited condition which is very rare and, worldwide, affects approximately one in twenty thousand people. Although rare in the western world, albinism is quite common in sub-Saharan Africa, likely as a result of consanguinity. Both parents, who may or may not be albinos themselves, must carry the gene if it is to be passed on to the child. Albinism occurs in both males and females and is not specific to any race or ethnic group. Statistics show that fifty percent of albinistic people in Tanzania have a known albinistic relative, although very few understand or are educated about the medical and genetic causes of this condition. Many believe it is a punishment from God or bad luck, and that their \"disease\" could be contagious, which is often the view of even members of the medical and professional community. These misconceptions, coupled with the lack of education, are some of the key reasons that albinism is so heavily persecuted. This lack of knowledge about people with albinism means that folktales and superstition in the name of witchcraft take the place of medical and scientific facts in the minds of many native Africans, with and without albinism, which in turn has major effects on the social integration of albinistic people into African society. Ninety-eight percent of albinos die by the age of forty for reasons which could easily be prevented.\n\nA report was released on 1 April 2014 by the Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, office of the Canadian charity Under the Same Sun. Titled \"Reported Attacks of Persons with Albinism\", the document reviews 180 countries and lists 129 recent killings and 181 other attacks, all within 23 African countries. These attacks include mutilation, violence, violation of graves, and cases of asylum-seeking.\n\nIn Tanzania, albinos represent one in every 1429 births, a much higher rate than in any other nation. According to Al-Shymaa Kway-Geer, an albino member of parliament, there are 6977 officially registered albinos in Tanzania. However, it is believed that there may be up to 17000 undocumented. A number of albinos have migrated to the Dar es Salaam area, as they feel safer in an urban setting. Tanzania is thought to have the largest population of albinos in Africa. Albinos are especially persecuted in Shinyanga and Mwanza, where witch doctors have promoted a belief in the potential magical and superstitious properties of albinos' body parts. There are further issues which arise when there is lack of education about albinism. Fathers often suspect the mother of the albino child of infidelity with a white man or that the child is the ghost of a European colonist. This can cause immense strain on families and relationships. An albino child is often seen as a bad omen and treated as unwanted. Many albino babies become victims of infanticide due to these superstitious views.\n\nAfter 2015 when Tanzania enacted tougher steps against violence against albinos, Malawi has seen a \"steep upsurge in killings\" with 18 reported killings since November 2014, and the likely toll being higher because of missing persons and unreported murders. President Peter Mutharika has formed a committee to study the situation. Additionally, Malawi has faced an immense amount of graves belonging to Albino people being robbed in more recent history. In 2017, police found at least 39 cases of illegal removals of the bodies of Albino people from their graves or having body parts removed from their corpses. Another phenomenon that has also begun to occur is an increase in religious leaders, police, and government officials being charged and convicted of slaying Albino people in Malawi. As of 2018, there has been speculation President Mutharika making moves toward implementing the death penalty to convicted murderers of Albino people as a way to significantly decrease the attacks being perpetrated, putting fear into those who do it for business or religious purposes and making it substantially less acceptable by witch doctors and other people who follow superstitions. There is a death penalty in place, but it has not been put in to use since the government changed to democracy in 1994, and convicts who are given the death penalty have sat in prison for life instead. The president sees this as a way to tighten judicial control and work to eradicate the hate crimes committed against Albinos.\n\nAfrican rituals and spiritual ideas about albinism have led to the brutal murder of and attacks on innocent men, women and especially children. These ideas have been around for many generations, but in recent years witch doctors have been teaching misconceived ideas about the promise of wealth, success and power when albino hair or limbs are used in a potion as part of witchcraft practices. This has gained public attention nationally and internationally as these crimes have been reported as crimes against human rights. \"Infanticide, kidnapping, amputations, and decapitations, committed for purposes of supplying highly valued body parts used for amulets, which are then sold in underground witchcraft market.\" Therefore, this causes great unrest and angst among the albino population, who must be protected and often live in a state of solitude simply to protect their own lives and to prevent being hunted like animals.\n\nUS congressman Gerry Connolly in 2010 introduced legislation to protect albinos and urge local governments to protect albinos, stating that \"With their help and the passage of this resolution today, maybe we can bring an end to these horrific and heinous crimes.\"\n\nIt is clear that \"the main driving forces underlying these profiling crimes are ignorance, myth, and superstition, such as the belief that individuals with albinism possess superpowers or that their body parts bestow fortune and health.\" It is commonly known that in many communities, predominantly in Tanzania and parts of east Africa, superstitious views derived from ancient spiritual beliefs and reinforced by local witch doctors have been carried through centuries of ritualistic practices and mythical beliefs. This creates a serious risk to the lives of persons with albinism as the people believe it will bring them wealth, power, success or health depending on the variances of interpretation. Senior police officers claim that these body parts may be sold for as much as US$75,000 on the black market for a set of arms, legs, ears, and genitals from an individual with albinism. Therefore, there has been an extensive amount of albino murders in the past decade especially in Burundi and Tanzania, where in 2007 more than seventy documented killings took place and one hundred and fifty body parts of albinos were reported to have been chopped off. Now the number of killings is well over one hundred, with low conviction rates, and albinos continue to have limbs severed, leaving many crippled or severely maimed, traumatized and tortured in the process.\n\nThis threat to albinos has the potential to cause extreme trauma and stress in their daily lives, which are already impacted by the stress of their condition, affecting skin and eyesight, placing albinos in a constant state of insecurity and distrust. According to Navi Pillay, the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, because of the social and educational exclusion which can often occur there are often very low education levels in albinos, so that they lack social and economic tools to live productive lives. It also \"is a common belief that albinos have low brain capacity and are unable to function at the same level as 'normal people'. Therefore, their ability to learn is often deficient due to the fact that one hundred percent of albinos suffer from some form of visual impairment and there often are not sufficient educational facilities, learning supplies or funding to support children with limited sight. This causes extensive bullying, exclusion from peer groups, low self-esteem and confidence, along with emotional and mental illness stemming from rejection by society and often family members who harbor superstitious myths about albinos. It is clearly revealed that no matter what mythical or spiritual mantra a person may be following or believing about albinos there is a general view in \"nearly all cultures in the region of east Africa held and some still hold the view that albinos are less desirable beings who are less than human.\" Therefore, homes and schools specifically for albinos, such as Buhangija Albino School, have been created as safe environments for learning, growing and permanently residing. Many children fear to ever return to their families, believing that they may be killed by even their closest relatives. Ukerewe Island is a key example of this, displayed in the film home to a large community of people with albinism where 62 albinos reside, most likely to remain in solitude and away from albino hunters.\n\nThe UN report submitted as part of the Human Rights Council resolution 23/13 of 13 June 2013 states that albinos are often regarded as \"ghosts and not human beings, who can be wiped off the global map.\" They are often persecuted as devils or people who are a bad omen or suffer from a curse. In some communities it is \"believed that contact with them will bring bad luck, sickness or death.\" Therefore, this is discrimination and mental and emotional persecution alone, where severe bullying of children, exclusion and abandonment occurs even without brutal physical persecution.\n\nHowever, the issues which have created a spotlight for the Human Rights Council of the United Nations are the murder of albinos for medicine and dismemberment, and attacks and murder of persons with albinism. Another myth that imposes a risk on people with albinism is the belief that \"sexual intercourse with a woman or a girl with albinism can cure HIV/AIDS.\" Sacrifice of albinos is believed also to \"appease the god of the mountain\" when fear of a volcano eruption is possible, and it is believed that pulling the hair of albinos can bring good luck. It has also been reported that \"miners use the bones of persons with albinism as amulets or bury them where they are drilling for gold. The attacks which occur usually result in the death or severe mutilation of the albino, which according to the Human rights council can in \"some cases involve trade in organs, trafficking in persons and sale of children, infanticide and abandonment of children.\"\n\nWith escalating killings, President Kikwete publicly and repeatedly condemned witch doctors, their helpers and middlemen, and the clients, which include members of the police force, for these murders. Victims include children snatched or abducted from their parents. The killers and their accomplices use hair, arms, legs, skin, eyes, genitals, and blood in rituals or for witch potions.\n\nThe United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights has published a preliminary report regarding discrimination which has been directed toward people with albinism. This report has been submitted as part of the Human Rights Council resolution 23/13 of 13 June 2013. It reinforced that \"states would adopt specific measures to protect and preserve the rights to life and security of persons with albinism, as well as their right not to be subject to torture and ill treatment, and ensure their access to adequate health care, employment, education and justice.\" The discrimination of albinos is often demonstrated by family members and relatives especially at birth, and ill-treatment by general society is widespread where there are severe issues of social exclusion and stigma. The Resolution 23/13 explains the Human Rights council's concerns about \"attacks against persons with albinism\". Therefore, the Council encouraged the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) to submit a report. Navi Pillay is the current United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights. As the representative, on 11 March 2014 she submitted a message which overviewed the current status of discrimination against persons with albinism and possible pathways for change and development in protection of albinos. \"People with albinism have the right to live without fear or bullying, discrimination, social exclusion, killing and dismemberment.\" This footage was published on 13 March 2014 to overview the current situation surrounding albinos who live in fear of being murdered or captured for the purposes of murder medicine and witch doctors belief in the magical potential of albino hair and limbs.\n\nAlso a key issue is the influence of educating the public to encourage the removal of the social stigma associated with albinos in a society which does not completely understand that albinism is not a curse or a spiritual ghost, but simply a skin condition. In Zimbabwe albinos have been given the name \"sope\" which indicated that they are possessed by evil spirits, and in Tanzania they are known as \"nguruwe\" meaning 'pig', or \"zeru\" which means 'ghost'. The Report discusses the \"most serious human rights violations faced by persons with albinism, primarily focusing on the ritual killings and attacks to which they are subjected.\" It also includes recommendations to the international community and member states action towards persons with albinism.\n\nUnder the Same Sun led by albinism activist Peter Ash is organisation aiming to protect albinos from persecution and he delivered an oral intervention to the Human Rights Council in its 23rd session on 7 June 2013 on behalf of the East and Horn of Africa Human Rights Defenders project (EHAHRDP). His submission stated:\n\n\"Today I wish to address a little known but very serious human rights violation being perpetrated against people with albinism in many African nations. My NGO, Under the Same Sun, has evidence of the witchcraft related attacks and killings of 207 people with albinism in 16 African nations. The majority of the victims are children. From Tanzania and Burundi in the East, to Nigeria and Cote d'Ivoire in the West and South Africa and Swaziland in the South, people born with this genetic condition live in fear every day. There exists a lucrative black market in albino body parts used to make what is promoted as powerful \"muti\" medicine. The hand, arm or any albino organ is combined with other ingredients and then sold for thousands of dollars: $3,000 for a hand or over $100,000 for an entire set of organs. Sometimes body parts are even shipped across borders. We seek a day when people with albinism will take their rightful place in all levels of African society and such days of discrimination will be a faint memory. To this end, we call on this Council to pass a resolution condemning acts of violence and discrimination against persons with albinism and to request the OHCHR or the Advisory Committee to carry out a study on such violations. As Edmund Burke so rightly stated, \"all that is necessary for evil to prevail is for good men to do nothing.\"\n\nInternational federation Secretary General Bekele Geleta states that \"Albinism is one of the most unfortunate vulnerabilities… and needs to be addressed immediately at international level.\" This is a cry for international exposure and help to ensure that people suffering from albinism can be protected from inhumane killings and to be sheltered from the merciless hunters of albino body parts for their potions and spiritual medicine. \"The main issues that should be addressed include skin cancer prevention education, stigma and discrimination denouncement, and swift prosecution of albino hunters and their sponsors.\" Therefore, it is clear that albinos are facing many issues in their lives, and must be protected on the basis of human rights even if they look different and unlike any other race on earth. It is \"imperative to inform the medical community and the general national and international public about the tragedies faced by albinos to protect them from skin cancer and ritualistic murders by individuals seeking wealth through clandestine markets perpetuating witchcraft.\"\n\nA number of steps were taken by the government to protect the albino population. The president ordered a crackdown on witchdoctors in the spring of 2008. In addition, an albino woman, Al-Shymaa Kway-Geer, was named to become a member of the parliament, the first albino in such a position in the history of Tanzania. Police have also been advised to generate lists of albinos and provide special protection for them.\n\nTo foil graverobbers, graves of the albinistic were to be sealed with concrete. However, by October 2008, killings had not abated, and while some suspects had been apprehended, no convictions had taken place. It was estimated that over 50 murders had taken place since March 2007, many of them in the mining and fishing communities near Lake Victoria, especially at Mwanza, Shinyanga and Mara.\n\nIn January 2009, \"Prime Minister Pinda had declared war on the albino hunters, and in an effort to stop the trade in albino body parts he had revoked the licenses of all the country's witch doctors who use the body parts in their black magic fetishes.\"\n\nThe first ever conviction for the killing of an albino in Tanzania occurred on 23 September 2009 at the High Court in Kahama. This was a \"landmark verdict\" was due to the fact that there have been more than 50 murders known at this time and this was the first actual conviction. The conviction came about following the murder and mutilation of a 14-year-old boy, Matatizo Dunia, who was attacked by three men in Bukombe district in Shinyanga Region in December 2008. The men carried Dunia from his home late at night before brutally murdering him. \n\nOne of them was later found with Dunia's leg in his possession. The rest of Dunia's body parts were located concealed in shrubbery. The men confessed a desire to sell Dunia's parts to a witch doctor, yet despite this, their legal team had not anticipated the death sentence of hanging which the three men would receive.\n\nThe Canada- and Tanzania-based Under The Same Sun albinism activist organisation praised the breakthrough but its founder Peter Ash remarked: \"This is one conviction. There are 52 other families still awaiting justice\". The Tanzania Albino Society's chairman Ernest Kimaya called for the hanging to be made public to further demonstrate to others that the issue of killing albinos was to be taken seriously.\n\nThis issue with witchcraft and its power and influence is that a witch doctor has, as he is almost always \"revered by society as ultimate truth.\" Most tribes in ancient times would have committed infanticide upon an albino child seeing it as a bad omen, practiced by the Sukuma, the Digo and the Maasai. However, in some tribes the albinos were made the sacrifices of offerings to the gods or for such uses as potions which is what they are still hunted for today in the 21st century. \"One of the most dangerous myths and the crux of recent attacks against PWA is that their body parts can be made into potions that give good luck and wealth to its users.\"\n\nIn 2006 some of the first publicly reported killings were spoken about in the media, such as 34-year-old albino woman, Arithi, who was murdered with her arms and legs hacked off and sold. Some cases which have been key in recent years firstly occurred in 2008 when a Tanzanian man tried to sell his albino wife for a price of US$3,000 to Congolese businessmen. Although the businessmen managed to escape their arrest, Interpol has been assigned to attempt to track these men. this is what led to President Jakaya Kikewere ordering a tightening of police and protection from prosecution, however due to corruption there is still proof that even policeman are being bribed and \"bought off\" to turn a blind eye to certain crimes if they are receiving pecuniary gain. Although according to BBC News one hundred and seventy witch doctors have been arrested for involvement in inhumane interactions and intentions with albinos.\n\nAnother example which occurred where two mothers who were attacked by gangs with machetes in order to get to their albino children. The men broke into a refugee house known as the Lugufu Camp in Kigoma in search of the children; although the children remained untouched the women received severe injuries. A further case uncovered by US congressman Gerry Connolly was the November 2008 in Ruyigi, Burundi where the case of a 6-year old albino girl who was shot dead and her head and limbs where hacked off, leaving only her dismembered torso.\n\nMany organisations have been set up to help protect and provide for communities with albinism. Films have also been produced to encourage, educate and create an international understanding of the trials which persons with albinism are facing in a modern world still dealing with ancient rituals and practices which encourage murder for medicine. This is against all international human rights legislation and therefore it is important that persons with albinism are collectively protected. Organisations such as National Organization for Albinism and Hypopigmentation (NOAH), Tanzania Albino Centre (TAC) based in Arusha, Tanzania; aiming to \"improve the lives of albinos with educational and medical assistance so that they may live safe, accepted, and prosperous lives in the society of their choice.\" Other groups include Assisting Children in Need (ACN); and Under the Same Sun where Ash, having albinism himself, states his aspirations and purpose for the project: \"I have a dream that one day in Africa, people with albinism will take their rightful place throughout every level of society, and that the days of discrimination against persons with albinism will be a faint memory!\"\n\nThe International Federation of Red Cross (IFRC) is a key part of the albino protection movement who are working to integrate persons with albinism back into society safely in Burundi \"striving to minimize their vulnerability to hunters, skin cancer, and educational and social marginalization.\" The IFRC particularly works with protecting mothers and children who are fearing persecution and they assist them in providing safe homes and protection where children are frightened of attacker's and by providing a special arena for the albinos it ensures safety protection and an environment of love, understanding of one another all with albinism, and unity in the battle against persecution and discrimination. The Red Cross have made it very clear in their publications that the government must also take drastic steps in protection of persons with albinism to stop the persecution. They have stated that it is imperative that the government strives to \"Ensure effective legal protection for people with albinism, use local administrative structures to locate and protect albino people in hiding and conduct public anti-discrimination campaigns and extend medical services to albinos in need.\"\n\nAsante Mariamu is another organisation which was created after the survival of Mariamu Staford from an anti-albino attack which is determined to ensure that there is \"swift prosecution and convictions of their killers\" and therefore encouraging justice. This story was presented to the US House of Representatives in March 2010 where US Congressman Gerry Connolly was impacted by this horrific story and \"moved me to take action.\" He introduced a bill to take action to severe violence being performed against persons with albinism in east Africa and to bring justice and punishment to perpetrators. He spoke to the house in March 2010 urging his colleagues \"to join me and Mariamu Stanford in bringing international attention to this horrific abuse of human rights.\" This legislation condemns any injury, murder or mutilation of persons with albinism and specifically urges the local east African government especially in Tanzania and Burundi \"to take immediate action to prevent further violence against persons with albinism.\" There are many more which are working on protecting persons with albinism from persecution, and providing adequate health care, sun protection and learning facilities to ensure that persons with albinism are treated fairly and with all human rights, and not hunted as animals in fear of their life. Albino Awareness day has also been created by Dr Aisha Sethi who is an assistant professor of dermatology in the Pritzker School of Medicine which is celebrated on 4th May each year. The President has also appointed Al-Shymaa Kway-Geer, himself a person with albinism, as an MP who seeks to be a voice in the Tanzanian parliament for protection against persecution of persons with albinism in society and encourages facilities and support of their physical, medical, and education protection and enhancement.\n\nUnder the Same Sun is a Canadian-founded organization with support focused on Tanzania and based in Dar es Salam, founded in 2008 by Peter Ash with a vision to \"promote via advocacy and education, the wellbeing of persons who are often marginalized or misunderstood. We are driven by the belief that all persons have intrinsic value and since they are created in the image of God.\" Therefore, they are acting upon the moral and human rights values to support victims to end the discrimination and persecution of innocent persons with albinism. According to Under The Same Sun, to eradicate attacks against persons with albinism, \"it is necessary to focus on eliminating reliance on witchcraft beliefs by strengthening the provision of infrastructure such as schools and hospitals while enhancing the sense of fairness by improving on the system of justice.\" Therefore, regaining persons with albinism their rights to being treated as human, fairly as functioning members of society who may look different and suffer severe vulnerabilities die to their physical condition, but do not deserve to be murdered or hurt in any way because of ancient myths claiming sacrifice of these people will create future benefit for another person.\n\nAmnesty International is a human rights organization that was established by Peter Benenson, a British lawyer and human rights activist, in 1961. It has many city-centered offices in Africa, Asia-Pacific, Central, and Eastern Europe, Latin America and the Middle East. The goal of the organization is to assist in obtaining freedom and success for everyone globally. It has run several campaigns against the persecution and discrimination of persons with albinism. 'Albinism in Malawi: Stop the Killings' is a campaign run by the organization that was started to “stop ritual murders of people with Albinism” . In addition, the organization provides a plethora of information and statistical research on albinism for other organizations that fight for the same cause.\n\nFilms which have been created are also helping to raise awareness and tell the stories of persecuted persons with albinism, beginning with \"In My Genes\", a 2009 Kenyan documentary directed by Lupita Nyong'o (later a key actor from the 2013 film \"Twelve Years a Slave\"). It was followed in 2010 by \"\", by Canadian filmmaker Jean-François Méan, which tells the story of Vicky Ntetema, a Tanzanian journalist who investigated the trade for albinotic body parts in Tanzania. This film became the cornerstone of a national campaign sponsored by Under the Same Sun to end the wave of violence. After the film's broadcast, the murder rate, which had been steady for three years, dropped by 90%.\n\n\"White Shadow\", a German–Italian–Tanzanian 2013 drama film written, produced and directed by Noaz Deshe, drew international attention to the issue, screening at various film festivals, winning the Lion of the Future Award at the Venice festival. Also released in 2013, \"In the Shadow of the Sun\", a documentary filmed in Tanzania over the course of six years by Harry Freeland, featured the struggles of Josephat Torner, a campaigner for de-mystification of the superstitions about albinistic people and their use for witchcraft; and teenaged Vedastus, who hopes to survive the persecution of persons with albinism to adulthood. \nAnd also The Beautiful Ones Are Born, a yet to be released short film by one of the youngest Nigerian Film maker Dami Taiwo.\n\nBy June 2008 killings had been reported in neighboring Kenya and possibly also the Democratic Republic of Congo.\n\nIn October 2008 AFP reported on the further expansion of killings of albinos to the Ruyigi region of Burundi. Body parts of the victims are then smuggled to Tanzania where they are used for witch doctor rituals and potions. Albinos have become \"a commercial good\", commented Nicodeme Gahimbare in Ruyigi, who established a local safe haven in his fortified house.\n\nBy 2010 cases had also been reported from Swaziland.\n\nOculocutaneous albinism, OCA2, is the most common gene type of albinism inherited disorders among the indigenous people Southern Africa. It occurs at a frequency of 1:4000. The incidence in Sotho people in northern South Africa is at its highest, with a ratio of 1:1500 in neonates. Albinism is the largest cause of childhood visual impairment in northern South Africa with a frequency of 1:1900 among the black population. Statistics on albinism in South Africa are largely incomplete however, studies quoted by the World Health Organization in 2006 reported that 1:4000 were born with albinism, compared to about 1:20 000 worldwide.\n\nSouth African human geneticist, Trefor Jenkins has made vast contributions to assist in understanding the social and cultural milieu of albinism, the medical risks and implications, resolving the molecular basis and aetiology for OCA2 in Southern Africa.\n\nChildren with albinism in rural areas are exposed to high levels of ultraviolet light without the adequate protective gear resulting in skin damage. Only 12% of public schools provided SPF15 sunscreen for children with albinism. Squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck is the most common type of cutaneous tumours in African patients with albinism. Non melanoma cancers, namely basal and squamos cell carcinoma, which are usually rare in black populations are common among the vulnerable group living with albinism. A South African study of 111 participants with OCA revealed that 23%\nof these participants developed skin cancer with the head area being the most commonly affected site. Many people from rural areas like the Eastern Cape with albinism are unaware of the precautionary measures required to protect their skin. Dr Willie Visser, head of the dermatology division at Stellenbosch University and Tygerberg Hospital, said that while white South Africans presented with skin cancer only after the age of 60, most albinos presented with skin cancer as young as 20. The government health facilities are required to provide sunblock lotion to albinos on a monthly basis however this need is not always met due to stock-outs and lack of knowledge on the part of health workers.\n\nRacial appearance and descent played a key role in the racial classification process during Apartheid. Additionally, different sociological and psychological give skin colour its many connotations. Skin colour is traditionally an instant indicator of identifying race and racial differences. Traditional definitions of race suggest that race and colour are inseparable however, for people with albinism race and colour are not linked. Though colour and race are used interchangeably, they remain independent grounds for discrimination. Individuals living with albinism should be protected against unfair discrimination on the basis of their race as well as their skin tone. Individuals living with albinism are exposed to discrimination, stigmatisation and prejudice based on their colour as well as their race. Skin tone discrimination may be interracial or it can be intraracial. Intraracial skin colour discrimination occurs when an individual of a particular racial group makes a distinction on the basis of skin colour between persons of the same racial group, while interracial colourism takes place when an individual of a particular racial group makes a distinction on the basis of skin colour between persons of another racial group. Scott argues that because current classifications of race do not afford people living with albinism adequate protection, a new category of colour should be proposed. Mswela argues that additional divisions and classifications of race will reinforce problems associated with race.\n\nThe difference in appearance in the child with albinism creates socialization and adaption problems. The distinctive phenotypical difference of black (African) people with albinism and the rest of the population group leads to barriers in social integration thus ostracism. South Africans living with albinism are among the most vulnerable in the country and there is hardly a serious attempt to protect these citizens from human rights violations, violent crimes, and threats. The extent of violent crimes for people with albinism is not as high as other African countries however, surges of violent crimes against people with albinism have been noted. Their sensitivity to sunlight, which limits the extent to which they can participate in outdoor activities, contributes to the physical and social isolation of children living with albinism. There has been an obligation and responsibility placed on the government to protect vulnerable people after the constitutional court decision on the Carmichele v Minister of Safety & Security case. The litigation in the Carmichele case creates a strategy for bringing a precautionary suit against the state based on the contention that the state has a duty to protect persons with albinism from violent acts. The South African government has designated the month of September as Albinism Awareness month. Thando Hopa, is a 24-year-old Public Prosecutor and model living with albinism. She is one of the few black albino models and albinism activists in the world.\n\nAfrican people who suffer from Albinism are inherently stuck between two racial identities. One side of the spectrum views Albino people as white, due to the color of their skin.  Another person might view Albinos as members of the black community due to the skin color of their other family members. Another contributor to this identity crisis is the negative stigma that surrounds Albino people within African society. The falsely informed notion that babies are born with Albinism as a result of a curse that was brought on by a member of his/her family is a significant weight that leaves people with Albinism debating their dignity. One thing to recognize is that studies done on Albinistic Africans demonstrate that many have a very deep self-understanding of who they are and where they belong in society . In other words, the two polarizing color identities that Albino people fall under allow them to be very sure of themselves when they do eventually find their place in society. Family and community also play an essential role in Albinistic identity. The way that a community behaves toward an individual can make or break their sense of self. Research shows that social identities enhance members' well‐being through the provision of social support and feelings of collective efficacy as well as by acting as a basis for collective action. In most cases, the surrounding community and family of Albinos highly mediates their acceptance. Plans for the future, in regards to eliminating persecution and negative stigmas that encompass individuals who have Albinism, appear to incorporate methods that involve focusing on community and family-based acceptance complementary to institutionally-based changes.\n\nMany African communities depend on traditional explanations of albinism rather than the biomedical explanation. This often leads to a negative socialisation of the individual with albinism. People living with albinism are often referred to by derogatory names such as 'inkawu', the Nguni term for white baboon, 'isishawa' a Zulu translation of a person who is cursed as well as 'zeru zeru' which means ghost like.\nThe Swahili term 'zeru' is also commonly used in Tanzania.\n\nThree people were convicted of the murder of 20 year old Thandazile Mpunzi, including her 17 year old boyfriend. The boyfriend lured Mpunzi to an isolated area on the afternoon of August 1, 2015 in the Phelandaba area of Emanguzi in northern KwaZulu-Natal. She was strangled, murdered and body parts dismembered. They planned to sell the body parts of Thandazile Mpunzi for a fortune. They claimed that a traditional healer told them they would get rich if they mixed Mpunzi's blood and parts with 'muthi'. Two of the accused pleaded guilty of murder and are sentenced to 20 years imprisonment. Numerous accounts of murdered as well as missing people with albinism are reported. The trading of albino body parts has become a lucrative business.\n\nAfter events involving murders of albino people by three Tanzanian men had been publicised by the BBC and others, the European Parliament strongly condemned the killing of albinos in Tanzania on 4 September 2008.\nThe U.S. House of Representatives passed H. Resolution 1088, introduced by Rep. Gerry Connolly (D, VA), by a vote of 418-1 on 22 February 2010. The resolution condemns the attacks and killings; categorizes them as human rights violations, and urges the governments of Tanzania and Burundi to vigorously prosecute such cases and to conduct educational campaigns to combat the superstitious beliefs that underlie the violent attacks.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21108065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21108065", "title": "Peter Kollock", "text": "Peter Kollock\n\nPeter Enrique Kollock (November 1, 1959 – January 10, 2009) was an American sociologist and an associate professor and vice chair in the department of sociology at the University of California, Los Angeles.\n\nKollock was born on November 1, 1959 in Zaragoza, Spain but came to the United States when he was a year old. He grew up in Seattle, Washington and attended Blanchet High School. Later, he received his B.A. in 1982, M.A in 1984, and Ph.D. in 1990 from the department of sociology at the University of Washington. He joined the department of sociology at UCLA in 1989 and stayed there throughout his entire career.\n\nHis research interests lay in \"determining the basis of trust and cooperation in collective action.\" One aspect of this research explored collaboration and online participation in virtual communities, arguing that cooperation is sustained by credit and relatively loose accounting systems. He was a practicing Buddhist and taught the popular fiat lux seminar, “Zen and the Art of Mindfulness.” Following a retreat at the Deer Park Monastery, Kollock proposed a new undergraduate course, \"The Sociology of Mindfulness,\" which became very popular. He was also a motorcycle enthusiast.\n\nKollock died on 10 January 2009 in a motorcycle accident on highway 101 near Calabasas, California. According to Buddhist Monk Phap De, \"Peter was a very skillful and careful motorcycle rider. He had just said good-bye to his wife, Ellen, and, apparently, was on his way from Calabasas to UCLA. According to the police, Peter, was hit by a powerful cross wind, causing him to hit the curb. His body was catapulted into a tree, killing him instantly.\" The \"Peter Kollock Memorial Ride\" was held on 14 January 2009, a 65-mile/two-hour route that ended at the UCLA campus in time for the memorial service. The department of sociology at UCLA now offers the \"Peter Kollock Memorial Teaching Award.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3600806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3600806", "title": "Police Quest: Open Season", "text": "Police Quest: Open Season\n\nPolice Quest: Open Season is the fourth installment of Sierra On-Line's popular \"Police Quest\" series. Released in November 1993, it was created by retired Police Chief Daryl F. Gates, who was the Chief of the Los Angeles Police Department (LAPD) from 1978 to 1992. He replaced ex-California Highway Patrol officer Jim Walls as the designer of the franchise.\n\nThe game is listed as \"Police Quest 4\" (\"PQ4\") in the manual. It is also shown in the file names and the credits, and when exiting the game in DOS, \"Thank you for playing \"Police Quest IV: Open Season\"\". The number does not appear on the title screen.\n\nPolice Quest IV differs significantly from the first three games, in both game engine and story. The player plays the character of homicide detective John Carey (portrayed by Sierra actor \"Brandon Massey\"), rather than officer Sonny Bonds, and the game is set in Los Angeles, California rather than the fictional Lytton. Backgrounds for the game are digital photographs rather than painted scenery, and depict real locations in Los Angeles. The Parker Center is a location used in the game, and is virtually unchanged from when the game was made. Written text is replaced by audible narration and dialogues on the CD version, released in 1996.\n\nThe entire game, like \"\" and the 1991 re-make of \"\", is based on a mouse-controlled user-interface system. Icons for \"walking\", \"speaking, \"using\" and \"looking\" are used rather than the old-fashioned text-parsing system used in the first two games.\n\nHomages to Sonny Bonds appear in two places: the name of the police server is \"SONNY\" and \"Sonny Bonds\" also appears on the high score screens of the two arcade games in the Short Stop Bar (CD version only).\n\nThe game starts in a South Central Los Angeles alley at around 3:00 AM. Carey finds his best friend and ex-partner, Officer Bob Hickman, murdered on the scene, alongside eight-year-old Bobby Washington. The seemingly random string of gang-related murders continues along, providing Carey with clues to find his killer(s).\n\nAfter 5 people are murdered, mutilated and found in public places, Carey finally closes in on the killer. He stumbled across the proprietor of a second-rate movie theatre, who has a stuttering problem. The owner offers him some tea and invites him into the theatre to watch a film. Carey passes out and hallucinates that the proprietor is the cross-dresser seen near the body of Hickman. The owner wakes Carey up and throws him out of the theatre. Carey finds the killer's house (led there by his dog), only to find a severed head in a fridge. Carey finds a hidden passage that leads back to the theatre, and finds a woman passed out in the seats. When he returns, he sees the owner dragging the unconscious woman into a back room. Carey is subsequently knocked unconscious. However, Carey manages to scrounge up some hairspray and a lighter, finds the woman covered in blood with the killer looming over her, and torches the killer. Although the woman is limp and covered in blood, we can assume that Carey saved her because the mayor mentions that only 5 people were killed, as he presents Carey with the Medal of Valor.\n\nThe game's gritty realism greatly emphasizes a homicide detective's line of work, requiring the player to follow standard police procedures and thoroughly investigate crime scenes to every extent. As such realism is presented in the form of working to find and link clues, the game also depicts a gruesome photo-realistic nature. The CD version of the game contained copies of official LA police department employee and community relation policies.\n\nAt the beginning of the game, an eight-year-old boy is found murdered from gunshot wounds in a dumpster, close-ups of Hickman's body are revealed, and towards the end of the game, the player will find a severed head in a refrigerator before ultimately stumbling upon the killer, who is fondling a victim's corpse. It is believed the killer in the game is based on serial killer Jeffrey Dahmer, noted for keeping body parts from his victims inside his house. The game, like several other Sierra games of the era, is also notable for the fact that the main character can be killed by many hazards; the game ends if a player constantly harasses female employees at the Parker Center, or if he shoots non-threatening people.\n\n\"Open Season\" also featured mature sexual themes. At one point, the player visits a stripper's nightclub in West Hollywood, and learns about his friend's secret life. The realism is complemented by a unique reaction for inappropriate use of items in the player's inventory, rather than a generic \"I can't do that\" statement.\n\n\"Open Season\" also included profanity used by characters \"Hal Bottoms\", \"Nicolette Rogers\", \"Dennis Walker\" as the player talks to them in the game.\n\nThe same year \"Open Season\" was released, ex-Police Quest developer Jim Walls released a very similar game called \"Blue Force\". Although \"Blue Force\" is graphically more similar to \"Police Quest III\", the storyline and completion time are shorter.\n\nAlso, for the 1996 release of the game, a two-minute promotional video was included.\n\n\"Open Season\" was met with some controversy for its perceived portrayal of some African-American characters and the stereotypical use of jive talk, of which the game was accused of portraying in an Amos 'n' Andy-style dialect. Examples of this include a witness introducing himself as \"I be Raymond Jones the third\", \"I jest be out for some fresh LA air\" or \"Yo, I be fly today!\". Although credited as the game's author, Daryl F. Gates did not write the game's story line, he renounced the inclusion of aforementioned dialogue in the game insisting they were not his idea. He said \"I told [Sierra] that these people use the same language as you and I use. A lot of that was changed. It is not intended to offend anyone\". Instead, Gates claimed that the story had been penned by Sierra's Tammy Dargan, a former segment producer for \"America's Most Wanted\". Dargan in turn, claimed that the lingo was inspired by Fab Five Freddy's \"Fresh Fly Flavor\".\n\nThe first four \"Police Quest\" games totaled 850,000 sales by late 1995. However, Markus Krichel of \"PC Games\" noted that \"interest on the part of the gamer fell slightly\" with \"Open Season\", which led Sierra On-Line to experiment with a new direction for the series with \"\". According to Sierra, combined sales of the \"Police Quest\" series—including \"SWAT\"—surpassed 1.2 million units by the end of March 1996.\n\n\"Computer Gaming World\" stated in February 1994 that \"\"Police Quest: Open Season\" evinces a remarkable degree of work-a-day police realism as a result of Gates' contributions\", with \"marvelous digitized backgrounds\". A longer review in March 1994 stated that the game had succeeded \"at so many levels\", that its realism and \"seemingly endless amounts of\" police procedure offered \"larger implications about our society and its struggle against the drug machine\". The reviewer noted that treating NPCs with the same \"lack of consideration\" players do so in other games \"seems incredibly damning—and heartrending—because it's true to life. We treat each other, the game implies, in our attempts merely to cope with the problems with which we are faced, like NPCs\". The magazine concluded that \"\"Open Season\" tells that story magnificently\".\n\n\"Next Generation\" reviewed the Macintosh version of the game, rating it two stars out of five, and stated that \"the ultimate Sierra police-based game is still a fond dream to look forward to; and in the meantime we can still keep ourselves amused with the \"Leisure Suit Larry\" series.\"\n"}
{"id": "13887315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13887315", "title": "Prentice Alvin and the No-Good Plow", "text": "Prentice Alvin and the No-Good Plow\n\n\"Prentice Alvin and the No-Good Plow\" is a poem by Orson Scott Card. The poem was the basis for Card's \"The Tales of Alvin Maker\" series.\n\n\"Prentice Alvin and the No-Good Plow\" won first prize in the long serious poem category at the Utah State Institute of Fine Arts in 1981. Card published this poem in the August 1989 issue of \"Sunstone\" magazine; and reprinted it in his short story collection \"Maps in a Mirror\".\n\nThis poem is about Alvin Miller, a young blacksmith’s apprentice. One day, when there is not much work to do, the blacksmith tells Alvin to go into the woods to look for berries. In the woods, Alvin meets a red-winged bird that makes a \"maker\" out of him. When he goes back to the blacksmith’s shop he tries to make a horseshoe with the blacksmith’s help. However, he is unable to strike the metal with the hammer to bend it. Later when he is alone he follows the bird's instructions and magically makes a plow of gold. Putting the plow in a bag he sets off to find some soil that his plow can bring to life. At last Alvin comes to a river in the middle of a foggy land and takes his plow out of the bag. The fog begins to clear and he meets a man named Verily Cooper. Together they build a plow frame and when they touch it the plow comes to life and plows the ground.\n\n\nAccording to Card he came up with the idea to write \"Prentice Alvin and the No-Good Plow\" while attending graduate school at the University of Utah. According to Card he decided to try to write an epic poem after reading \"The Faerie Queene\" by Edmund Spenser in one of his literature classes. At the time Card was not planning on expanding \"Prentice Alvin and the No-Good Plow\" into a novel series. It was originally meant to stand on its own.\n\nThis poem won first prize for \"long serious poem\" in the 1981 Utah State Institute of Fine Arts. Card admits that all the entries in this category won a prize (there were two), though his came in first.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "756723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=756723", "title": "Public defender", "text": "Public defender\n\nA public defender is an attorney appointed to represent people who cannot afford to hire one.\n\nBrazil is the only country where an office of government-paid lawyers, with the specific purpose of providing legal assistance and representation to the destitute, free of charge, is established in the Constitution. In the United States, a 1963 US Supreme Court case \"Gideon v. Wainwright\" ruled that the Sixth Amendment of the Bill of Rights requires the government to provide free legal counsel to indigent defendants in criminal cases. Many other countries provide people with public defenders.\n\nIn civil law countries, following the model from the French Napoleonic Code of criminal procedure, the courts typically appoint private attorneys at the expense of the state.\n\nThe Constitution of Brazil uniquely provides for a public defender's office (\"Defensoria Pública\") at both state and federal levels. Public defense is a right to poor people, who must declare, formally, that they cannot afford regular legal aid, to benefit from public defenders' services.\n\nPublic defenders, like prosecutors and judges, are admitted to their positions through civil service examination. The public defender's office assists the poor and lower middle-class in both civil and criminal matters, although the poorest states in the country are still struggling to set up a state public defenders office.\n\nPublic defense in Brazil dates back to 1897, when a decree mandated government-funded legal assistance in the state of Rio de Janeiro, then called Legal Assistance (\"Assistência Jurídica\"). The Constitution of 1937 extended \"Assistência Jurídica\" to the entire country, but without the same effectiveness that is derived from the current, 1988 Constitution.\n\nLegal assistance in Singapore is provided by the State and the Pro Bono Services Office of the Law Society.\n\nThe State provides legal assistance in criminal cases where the accused faces the death penalty. The government also provides legal representation and advice in civil cases such as for divorce, child custody, adoption, wrongful dismissal, letters of administration/probate, tenancy disputes, claims in contract and tort, through the Ministry of Law's Legal Aid Bureau (LAB). Assistance from the LAB is not free, and most clients are required to contribute towards the costs of the work done, but the amount a client is charged depends on a number of factors, among them the client's financial means.\n\nThe Pro Bono Services Office of the Law Society runs the Criminal Legal Aid Scheme, which provides criminal legal assistance to the poor and needy who are unable to afford a lawyer, and are facing charges in a Singapore court for non death-penalty offences under statutes covered by CLAS. \n\nGermany provides legal representation, legal advice, and help in covering court costs in civil cases to those who cannot raise the necessary funds to hire an attorney, but only when there is a reasonable chance of success. In criminal cases where the defendant faces at least one year of imprisonment, the defendant has the right to legal counsel. Although there is a right to legal defense, there is no organized public defender system. Instead, any lawyer can be appointed to provide counsel to a specific defendant, and the defendant can select a specific lawyer. Questions of payment are deferred until the end of a trial, and the court will decide the cost of the case to the losing party. The defendant will not be charged for legal services if acquitted. If convicted, the defendant will be required to pay the lawyer's expenses unless the court finds that the defendant is indigent.\n\nThere are a small number of \"Public Defender Service\" offices in England and Wales with lawyers employed directly by the Legal Aid Agency to provide advice in police stations and representation in magistrates and crown courts. The majority of state funded criminal defence work, however, is provided by private lawyers contracted to the Legal Aid Agency and paid by the case under the legal aid scheme.\n\nIn Scotland a wider network of \"Public Defender Solicitor Office\" lawyers employed by the Scottish Legal Aid Board are available to represent those accused of crimes in addition to private lawyers paid under the legal aid scheme.\n\nIn the United States, the term public defender is often used to describe a lawyer who is appointed by a court to represent a defendant who cannot afford to hire an attorney. More correctly, a public defender is a lawyer who works for a public defender's office, a government-funded agency that provides legal representation to indigent defendants. The court appoints the public defender's office to represent the defendant, and the office assigns a lawyer to the defendant's case. In the federal criminal court system and some states and counties, representation is through a publicly-funded public defender office.\n\nOther courts may appoint private lawyers who have agreed to represent indigent defendants, with appointment being either on a contractual basis, through which the lawyer accepts an agreed number of cases from the court for the term of the contract, or a case-by-case basis.\n\nThe 1963 US Supreme Court case \"Gideon v. Wainwright\" held that the Sixth Amendment's right to counsel provision requires the government to provide legal counsel to indigent defendants in criminal cases. Different jurisdictions, however, use different approaches in providing legal counsel for criminal defendants who can't afford private attorneys.\n\nIn Hungary, the police, the public prosecutor or the court (depending on what individual cases require) appoints a criminal defender at the state's cost to defend those who can not afford a chosen lawyer. The defence counsel's participation is required by the Criminal Procedure Act. Usually a private lawyer is appointed, one for each defendant, and conflict of interest between contradicting suspects is avoided, e.g. the same lawyer may not represent two accused whose evidence is mutually contradictory. If convicted, the defendant is in principle liable for the fee, but is rarely pursued.\n"}
{"id": "51352770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51352770", "title": "Rape myth", "text": "Rape myth\n\nRape myths are prejudicial, stereotyped and false beliefs about sexual assaults, rapists, and rape victims. They often serve to excuse sexual aggression, create hostility toward victims, and bias criminal prosecution.\n\nExtensive research has been conducted about types, acceptance, and impact of rape myths. Rape myths significantly influence the perspectives of jurors, investigative agencies, judges, perpetrators, and victims. False views about rape lead to victim blaming, shaming, questioning of the victim's honesty, and other problems. Determination of the guilt of the accused, and sentencing for sexual crimes, are also influenced by these beliefs.\n\nRape myths originate from various cultural stereotypes, such as traditional gender roles, acceptance of interpersonal violence, and misunderstanding the nature of sexual assault.\n\nRape myths first became a topic of research during the 1970s, when a number of studies and books explored the concept. In 1974, for example, feminist writer Susan Brownmiller decried \"male myths of rape\" which \"deliberately obscure the true nature of rape\" in her book \"Against Our Will: Men, Women and Rape\". The same year, criminologists Julia and Herman Schwendinger studied common misconceptions about rape, including the notion that rape was impossible - i.e., that any woman who really wanted to could prevent a rape - the idea victims of rape were \"asking for it,\" and the idea that men rape because of \"uncontrollable passions.\" They termed these misconceptions \"sexist myths\" which \"influence the treatment of women victims.\" Both Brownmiller's work and the Schwendingers' study suggested that rape myths perpetuated male violence against women by placing blame on the victim, excusing the rapist, and minimizing or justifying the act of rape.\n\nIn 1980, Martha Burt published the first major study of rape myth acceptance. Burt defined rape myths as \"prejudicial, stereotyped and false beliefs about rape, rape victims and rapists\" which create \"a climate hostile to rape victims.\" Burt's definition has been widely used.\n\nIn 1994, Kimberly A. Lonsway and Louise F. Fitzgerald defined rape myths as \"attitudes and beliefs that are generally false but are widely and persistently held, and that serve to deny and justify male sexual aggression against women.\"\n\nSome scholars, such as Gerd Bohner and Heike Gerger, have argued that descriptors such as \"false\" and \"widely held\" should not be included in a formal definition of what rape myths are since myths are often constructed in a way that are impossible to falsify, (as in the example, \"many women \"secretly\" desire to be raped,\" where \"secret\" desire cannot be disproven) and the degree to which rape myths are \"widely held\" or accepted may vary over time. Bohner has offered an alternative definition of rape myths as \"descriptive or prescriptive beliefs about rape (ie, about its causes, context, consequences, perpetrators, victims and their interaction) that serve to deny, downplay or justify sexual violence against women.\"\n\nWhile scholars disagree somewhat on how to precisely define the concept of rape myths, and rape myths can vary across different cultures and societies, there is a general consensus that there are four basic types of rape myths: those that blame the victim for their rape, those that express doubt or disbelief about victim's reports of a rape, those that exonerate the rapist, and those that suggest that only a certain type of woman gets raped.\n\nLonsway, Fitzgerald and Diana L. Payne wrote in 1999 that the term \"rape myth\" does not imply that a given scenario \"never\" occurs, and \"it is clear that any individual instance might conform to the characteristics described in cultural male mythology,\" since there is \"undeniably some percentage of women\" who have made false reports of rape, and there are \"certain situational or personal characteristics that differentiate women who have been raped from those who have not.\" They argue, however, that rape myths are \"generally false\" in nature, and function to deny and justify the victimization of women.\n\nCommon rape myths may include:\n\nMost of the rape myths listed above deal with the rape of women by men. There has been less research on perceptions of rapes of male victims, whether by women or by other men. The following have been identified: Rape myths can stem from the media and are largely held by the general population. Research suggests that a common myth is that men experience little trauma when perpetrated by a woman.\n\nThey may also include the following beliefs:\nThe latter two categories show higher myth acceptance in the case when the perpetrator is a female.\n\nThe prevalence of rape myths is a major reason for rape victim blaming and stigmatization. Rape myths can cause victims of rape to blame themselves for their rape, or to not report their assault, and they can also shape the responses of judges and juries, causing a negative impact on rape victims. Some studies have shown that police officers are often distrustful of rape victims' account of their victimization, and that many of them believe some common rape myths.\n\nDue to reported higher rape myth acceptance among males than females, as well as because of other gender-based differences in perceptions and standpoints, one analysis by Patricia Yancey Martin, John R. Reynolds and Shelley Keith suggested that \"a judiciary made up solely of men differs from one made up of more equal proportions of women and men\". This commentary is furthered by the writings of Mallios and Meisner, who state that rape myth acceptance is problematic in judicial settings. They assert that \"voir dire\" can be used to curb jury bias related to preconceived notions regarding rape. This problem is further heightened by the fact that investigative agencies, various participants in the Legal System, and points of contacts for rape victims, for example the nearest doctor, are likelier to be male, than female. The 2015 book \"Asking for It\" by Kate Harding talks about common rape myths and about the differences between male and female rapes. One in five women and one in seventy-one men in the United States will find out what it's like to be raped, according to Harding. She writes, \"Women are no more important than any other potential victims, but we are the primary targets of the messages and myths that sustain rape culture. ... Anyone can be raped, but men aren't conditioned to live in terror of it, not are they constantly warned that their clothing, travel choices, alcohol consumption, and expressions of sexuality are likely to bring violations upon them.\"\n\nSuch stereotypes reduce the inclination of victims to report instances of rape, harassment, and assault. This reduced reporting of crimes might present a rosy picture and would further the problem, by leading to beliefs that these crimes that are reported are fake, false, or unlikely to be true.\n\nIn \"Asking for It\", Harding writes of rape that \"we tend not to treat it as a serious crime unless there's simultaneously evidence of another one\". The author also quotes psychologist David Lisak. He says that \"Ultimately, only a tiny handful of rapists ever serve time for rape, a shocking outcome given that we view rape as close kin to murder in the taxonomy of violent crime\".\n\nIn 1980, Martha R. Burt introduced the Rape Myth Acceptance Scale (RMA, or RMAS). The scale was the first method for measuring an individual's level of belief in rape myths, and became the most widely used. Using Burt's method, rape myth acceptance is measured by asking subjects 19 questions. The first 10 questions each consist of a statement which suggests that rape victims are responsible for their own rape, and ask the subject to assess its truthfulness, rating each statement on a seven-point scale from \"strongly agree\" to \"strongly disagree.\" The 11th statement tests for the inverse of this idea, asking whether or not it is true that any woman can be raped. The remaining questions ask test subjects to guess the proportion of reported rapes that are false, and assess whether they are more or less likely to believe a rape victim based on the victim's personal characteristics (for example, their gender, their race or ethnicity, their age, or their relationship to the test subject).\n\nBurt's original study concluded that many Americans believed in rape myths. More than half of the individuals sampled in her original survey had agreed that \"a woman who goes to the home or apartment of a man\" on the first date \"implies she is willing to have sex,\" and that in the majority of rapes \"the victim was promiscuous or had a bad reputation.\" More than half of Burt's respondents had suggested 50% or more of reported rapes were reported \"only because the woman was trying to get back at a man\" or \"trying to cover up an illegitimate pregnancy.\"\n\nAnother measure is the 45-item Illinois Rape Myth Acceptance Scale (IRMA), developed by Diana L. Payne, Kimberly A. Lonsway, and Louise F. Fitzgerald in 1999. They concluded that \"rape myth acceptance is most adequately conceptualized as consisting of both a general component and seven distinct myth components: \"She asked for it; It wasn’t really rape; He didn’t mean to; She really wanted it; She lied; Rape is a trivial event;\" and \"Rape is a deviant event\"\"\n\nThe developers of IRMA analysed responses to a pool of 95 statements about rape to create their scale.\n\nBased on the Illinois Rape Myth Acceptance Scale, the Chinese Rape Myth Acceptance Scale (CMRA) is a culturally-specific myth scale that measures acceptance of rape myths in Chinese society. The scale operates under a culturally-adapted definition of rape, specifically, in China the legal definition of rape makes no provision for marital rape and does not apply to male victims. Additionally, the definition excludes “types of coercive sexual behavior, such as other forms of penetrative sex, including oral sex, anal sex, and penetrations of the vagina or anus by other body parts like fingers or other objects.” The CRMA retains 25 of 45 items from the IRMA scale and produces a five-factor structure. These myth component factors are: rape victims want to be raped; rape allegations are often false; rape must involve violence; victims are responsible for being raped; and, the motivation to rape is understandable.\n\nA 2013 online survey of freshmen at a northwestern university in the United States suggested that women who consumed mainstream sports programming were more likely to accept rape myths, while for both men and women exposure to sports programming decreased the likelihood they would express an intention to intervene if they saw a sexual assault. Another survey carried out online on a research panel in 2011 found that watching soap operas is associated with higher rape myth acceptance, while the reverse was true of watching crime shows.\n\n"}
{"id": "54101151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54101151", "title": "Red dress party", "text": "Red dress party\n\nIn LGBT culture, red dress parties are events in which people wear red dresses, regardless of gender. The parties are attended predominantly by gay men in drag. Cities with annual events include Portland, Oregon, and San Diego.\n\nThe Portland charity event began as a basement party in 2001, and benefits organizations supporting LGBT youth and people living with HIV/AIDS. Parties are now attended by 2,000 people and raise as much as $30,000 annually. Chelsea Clinton attended the 2008 event.\n"}
{"id": "355043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=355043", "title": "Rise, O Voices of Rhodesia", "text": "Rise, O Voices of Rhodesia\n\n\"Rise, O Voices of Rhodesia\" (or \"Voices of Rhodesia\") was the national anthem of the unrecognised state of Rhodesia and Zimbabwe Rhodesia (renamed Zimbabwe in 1980) between 1974 and 1979. The tune was that of \"Ode to Joy\", the Fourth Movement from Ludwig van Beethoven's Ninth Symphony, which had been adopted as the official European continental anthem by the Council of Europe in 1972 (it remains Europe's continental anthem today). The music used in Rhodesia was an original sixteen-bar arrangement by Captain Ken MacDonald, the bandmaster of the Rhodesian African Rifles. A national competition was organised by the government to find an appropriate set of lyrics to match the chosen tune, and won by Mary Bloom of Gwelo.\n\nIn the fallout from Rhodesia's Unilateral Declaration of Independence from the UK on 11 November 1965, the country still claimed loyalty to Queen Elizabeth II as its professed head of state, and so retained \"God Save the Queen\" as its national anthem. With Rhodesia's reconstitution in 1970 as a republic, however, the royal anthem was dropped along with many other references to the monarchy, leaving it without a national anthem until it adopted \"Rise, O Voices of Rhodesia\" in 1974. The national anthem lost its legal status in December 1979, when the UK took interim control of the country pending its internationally recognised independence as Zimbabwe five months later. Rhodesia's use of the well-known Beethoven tune has since caused the playing of \"Ode to Joy\" to be controversial in modern-day Zimbabwe.\n\nA dispute over the terms for the granting of full statehood to the self-governing colony of Rhodesia led its predominantly white minority government, headed by Prime Minister Ian Smith, to unilaterally declare independence from the UK on 11 November 1965. As Whitehall had been insisting on majority rule as a condition for independence, this declaration went unrecognised and caused the UK and the United Nations to impose economic sanctions on Rhodesia. Queen Elizabeth II continued to be the Rhodesian head of state in the eyes of Smith's government, which regarded itself as \"Her Majesty's Rhodesian Government\" despite its international non-acknowledgement; \"God Save the Queen\" therefore remained the Rhodesian national anthem. Though this was intended to demonstrate Rhodesia's enduring loyalty to the Queen, the retention of a song so associated with the UK in the midst of the Anglo-Rhodesian constitutional struggle soon gave Rhodesian state occasions \"a faintly ironic tone\", in the words of the London \"Times\".\n\nThe Rhodesian government initiated a search for a new anthem around the time of its adoption of a new green-and-white flag in November 1968, but continued to use \"God Save the Queen\" until June 1969, when the mostly white electorate voted in favour of a republican form of government. The royal anthem officially remained in place until the formal declaration of a republic in March 1970, when it was abandoned along with numerous other overt references to the Crown. Republican Rhodesia was without an anthem for over four years before the chosen music was announced on 28 August 1974: the Fourth Movement, commonly called \"Ode to Joy\", from Ludwig van Beethoven's Ninth Symphony. The fact that the Council of Europe had adopted this tune as the \"Anthem of Europe\" in January 1972 apparently did not perturb the Rhodesian government; John Sutherland and Stephen Fender comment that Rhodesia's choice proved deeply embarrassing for the UK's Labour government, whose leaders now had to respect a melody associated with Rhodesia when attending official European functions. With a tune now in place, the Rhodesian government organised a nationwide competition to write matching lyrics, the winner of which would receive a cash prize of R$500 (equal to about US$1,000).\n\nThe Council of Europe, though less than pleased with Rhodesia's selection, did not object to it, reasoning that so long as Rhodesia was using \"Ode to Joy\" in its original form, it could not be subject to reproach as the music was long out of copyright and in the public domain. It did announce, however, that should Rhodesia use the same arrangement as the Council of Europe, then the author of that score, Herbert von Karajan, would have grounds for a plagiarism lawsuit. Such an incident was averted when Rhodesia adopted an original sixteen-bar arrangement by Captain Ken MacDonald, the Rhodesian African Rifles' bandmaster. The anthem's inaugural instrumental performance in Salisbury provoked mixed reactions: some were enthusiastic—including a coloured sergeant musician who proudly told the \"Rhodesia Herald\" that \"it's just like 'God Save Our Gracious Queen'\"—but many others were disappointed that the government had not commissioned an original tune. Rhys Lewis, music critic for the \"Herald\", wrote that he was \"stupefied\" by the government's choice, which he said was not only unoriginal, but also so associated with supranational brotherhood that it risked making internationally isolated Rhodesia the subject of ridicule. Phinias Sithole, who headed the African Trade Union Congress (a black Rhodesian trade union federation), commented that he did not believe most of the country's blacks would identify with a song chosen while people of their ethnicity remained largely absent from the government's top levels.\n\nThe winning lyricist was confirmed on 24 September 1974 to be Mary Bloom, a company director, music critic and poet from Gwelo, who had moved to Rhodesia from South Africa in 1947. Bloom titled her work \"Voices of Rhodesia\", but the full first line, \"Rise, O Voices of Rhodesia\", ultimately entered common parlance as the song's title.\n\nThe lyrics officially adopted were as follows:\n<poem>\nRise, O voices of Rhodesia,\nGod may we Thy bounty share.\nGive us strength to face all danger,\nAnd where challenge is, to dare.\nGuide us, Lord, to wise decision,\nEver of Thy grace aware,\nOh, let our hearts beat bravely always\nFor this land within Thy care.\n\nRise, O voices of Rhodesia,\nBringing her your proud acclaim,\nGrandly echoing through the mountains,\nRolling o'er the far flung plain.\nRoaring in the mighty rivers,\nJoining in one grand refrain,\nAscending to the sunlit heavens,\nTelling of her honoured name.\n</poem>\n\n\"Rise, O Voices of Rhodesia\" remained in official usage for the rest of Rhodesia's history, as well as between June and December 1979, when Rhodesia was reconstituted as Zimbabwe Rhodesia, a black-ruled version of the same country, which also failed to achieve legitimacy in the eyes of the UK and the UN. Though the anthem remained in place during these six months, a new flag was adopted and Rhodesia's national holidays, largely based around colonial figures and milestones, were replaced by alternatives intended to be more inclusive: President's Day, Unity Day and Ancestors Day. The national anthem remained unchanged on 12 December 1979, when Zimbabwe Rhodesia came under the UK's control for an interim period before internationally recognised independence came in April 1980, with the country now called Zimbabwe. \"Ishe Komborera Africa\", a Shona translation of Enoch Sontonga's Xhosa hymn \"Nkosi Sikelel' iAfrika\" (\"God Bless Africa\" in English) was made Zimbabwe's first national anthem, and remained in place until 1994, when it was replaced by the present anthem, \"Simudzai Mureza wedu WeZimbabwe\" (\"Blessed be the Land of Zimbabwe\").\n\nBecause of its use by \"Rise, O Voices of Rhodesia\", the \"Ode to Joy\" melody is controversial in Zimbabwe, where its annual playing at foreign embassies on Europe Day initially caused shock to Zimbabwean government officials who, according to historian Josephine Fisher, had not previously been aware of the song's use by the Council of Europe. During the 1980s, Derek Hudson, the long-time conductor of the Bulawayo Philharmonic Orchestra, had considerable difficulty securing official permission to give the first Zimbabwean performance of Beethoven's Ninth Symphony. He was eventually able to do so, but only after prolonged negotiations with the authorities. When \"Ode to Joy\" was included in a fundraising organ recital held by a Harare church at Christmas 1994, it provoked angry protests from some who attended.\n\n"}
{"id": "311643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=311643", "title": "Sea shanty", "text": "Sea shanty\n\nA sea shanty, chantey, or chanty is a type of work song that was once commonly sung to accompany labor on board large merchant sailing vessels. The term \"shanty\" most accurately refers to a specific style of work song belonging to this historical repertoire. However, in recent, popular usage, the scope of its definition is sometimes expanded to admit a wider range of repertoire and characteristics, or to refer to a \"maritime work song\" in general.\n\nOf uncertain etymological origin, the word \"shanty\" emerged in the mid-19th century in reference to an appreciably distinct genre of work song, developed especially in American-style merchant vessels that had come to prominence in decades prior to the American Civil War. Shanty songs functioned to synchronize and thereby economize labor in what had then become larger vessels having smaller crews and operating on stricter schedules. The practice of singing shanties eventually became ubiquitous internationally and throughout the era of wind-driven packet and clipper ships.\n\nShanties had antecedents in the working chants of British and other national maritime traditions. They were notably influenced by songs of African Americans, such as those sung while manually loading vessels with cotton in ports of the southern United States. Shanty repertoire borrowed from the contemporary popular music enjoyed by sailors, including minstrel music, popular marches, and land-based folk songs, which were adapted to suit musical forms matching the various labor tasks required to operate a sailing ship. Such tasks, which usually required a coordinated group effort in either a pulling or pushing action, included weighing anchor and setting sail.\n\nThe shanty genre was typified by flexible lyrical forms, which in practice provided for much improvisation and the ability to lengthen or shorten a song to match the circumstances. Its hallmark was call and response, performed between a soloist and the rest of the workers in chorus. The leader, called the \"shantyman\", was appreciated for his piquant language, lyrical wit, and strong voice. Shanties were sung without instrumental accompaniment and, historically speaking, they were only sung in work-based rather than entertainment-oriented contexts. Although most prominent in English, shanties have been created in or translated into other European languages.\n\nThe switch to steam-powered ships and the use of machines for shipboard tasks, by the end of the 19th century, meant that shanties gradually ceased to serve a practical function. Their use as work songs became negligible in the first half of the 20th century. Information about shanties was preserved by veteran sailors and by folklorist song-collectors, and their written and audio-recorded work provided resources that would later support a revival in singing shanties as a land-based leisure activity. Commercial musical recordings, popular literature, and other media, especially since the 1920s, have inspired interest in shanties among landlubbers. The modern performance contexts of these songs have affected their forms, their content, and the way they are understood as cultural and historical artifacts. Recent performances range from the \"traditional\" style of practitioners within a revival-oriented, maritime music scene, to the adoption of shanty repertoire by musicians in a variety of popular styles.\n\nThe origin of the word \"shanty\" is unknown, though several inconclusive theories have been put forth. One of the earliest and most consistently offered derivations is from the French \"chanter\", \"to sing.\"\n\nThe phenomenon of using songs or chants, in some form, to accompany sea labor preceded the emergence of the term \"shanty\" in the historical record of the mid-19th century. One of the earliest published uses of this term for such a song came in G. E. Clark's \"Seven Years of a Sailor's Life\", 1867. Narrating a voyage in a clipper ship from Bombay to New York City in the early 1860s, Clark wrote, \"The anchor came to the bow with the chanty of 'Oh, Riley, Oh,' and 'Carry me Long,' and the tug walked us toward the wharf at Brooklyn.\" While telling of another voyage out of Provincetown, Mass. in 1865, he wrote:\nEvery man sprang to duty. The cheerful chanty was roared out, and heard above the howl of the gale. The cable held very hard, and when it surged over, the windlass sent the men flying about the deck, as if a galvanic battery had been applied to their hands. The vessel's head was often buried in the solid seas, and the men, soaked and sweating, yelled out hoarsely, \"Paddy on the Railway,\" and \"We're Homeward Bound,\" while they tugged at the brakes, and wound the long, hard cable in, inch by inch.\nAdditionally, Clark referred to a lead singer as a \"chanty man,\" and he referred to stevedores unloading cargo from the vessels as \"chanty men\" and a \"chanty gang.\"\n\nThis reference to singing stevedores as \"chanty men\" connects the genre to a still earlier reference to \"chanty-man\" as the foreman of a work gang and the lead singer of their songs. Around the late 1840s, Charles Nordhoff observed work gangs engaged in a type of labor called \"cotton-screwing\" in Mobile Bay. Characterized by Nordhoff as one of the heaviest sorts of labor, cotton-screwing involved the use of large jack-screws to compress and force cotton bales into the holds of outbound ships. Work gangs consisted of four men, who timed their exertions in turning the jack-screw to songs called \"chants\".\nSinging, or \"chanting\" as it is called, is an invariable accompaniment to working in cotton, and many of the screw-gangs have an endless collection of songs, rough and uncouth, both in words and melody, but answering well the purposes of making all pull together, and enlivening the heavy toil. The foreman is the \"chanty-man\", who sings the song, the gang only joining in the chorus, which comes in at the end of every line, and at the end of which again comes the pull at the screw handles...<br>\nThe \"chants\", as may be supposed, have more of rhyme than reason in them. The tunes are generally plaintive and monotonous, as are most of the capstan tunes of sailors, but resounding over the still waters of the Bay, they had a fine effect.\n\nThe spelling of the term has never been fully standardized, and its form appeared quite inconsistently until after the 1920s. While the above noted, American sources used a \"ch\" spelling, the next published appearances of the term, coming in two very similar articles from British publications from 1868 and 1869, used \"shanty.\" Early writers who gave substantial due to the genre (i.e. those who were not mentioning shanties only in passing) often used the \"ch\" spelling, regardless of their nationality.\n\nAddressing the Royal Musical Association in 1915, English musicologist Richard Runciman Terry put forward his belief that the genre should be spelled with \"sh\" on the grounds that the spelling should correspond obviously to pronunciation. In his subsequent shanty collections he used this spelling consistently. American shanty-collector Joanna Colcord made great use of Terry's first book (corresponding with the author, and reprinting some of his material), and she, too, deemed it sensible to adopt the \"sh\" spelling for her 1924 collection.\n\nTerry's works were the source for those among the earliest of commercial recordings (see below) and popular performances of shanties—especially because, unlike many earlier works, they provided scores with piano accompaniment and sufficiently long, performance-ready sets of lyrics. Colcord's work was also very handy in this regard, and was used as a source by prominent British folk revival performers like A. L. Lloyd and Ewan MacColl. Terry and Colcord's works were followed by numerous shanty collections and scores that also chose to use the \"sh\" spelling, whereas others remained insistent that \"ch\" be retained to preserve what they believed to be the etymological origins of the term. By the late 20th century, the \"sh\" spelling had become the more or less standard one in Commonwealth English, whereas \"ch\" spellings remained in common use mostly in the United States.\n\nThe phrase \"sea shanty\" carries a similar redundancy to that of the phrases \"ATM machine\" or \"chai tea\", in that the word \"shanty\" alone already conveys the meaning of a sea-related work song. During the 1920s, the phrase came into regular use by lay commentators, though it was not documented in use by sailors themselves, nor has it been used by knowledgeable authors on the subject such as Stan Hugill. The term \"sea shanty/chantey\" has become a staple of popular usage, where it helps to disambiguate the work song genre from other meanings of the word \"shanty.\"\n\nSinging or chanting has been done to accompany labor on seagoing vessels among various cultural groups at various times and in various places. A reference to what seems to be a sailor's hauling chant in \"The Complaynt of Scotland\" (1549) is a popularly cited example. Liberal use of the word \"shanty\" by folklorists of the 20th century expanded the term's conceptual scope to include \"sea-related work songs\" in general. However, the shanty genre is distinct among various global work song phenomena. Its formal characteristics, specific manner of use, and repertoire cohere to form a picture of a work song genre that emerged in the Atlantic merchant trade of the early 19th century. As original work songs, shanties flourished during a period of about fifty years.\n\nThere is a notable lack of historical references to anything like shanties, as they would come to be known, in the entirety of the 18th century. In the second half of the 18th century, English and French sailors were using simple chants to coordinate a few shipboard tasks that required unanimous effort. A dictionary of maritime terms, in describing the anchor-hauling mechanical device known as a windlass, noted the use of such a chant. This particular old-fashioned style of windlass was one that required workers to continually remove and re-insert \"handspikes\" (wooden leverage bars) into the device to turn its gears.\n\nIt requires, however, some dexterity and address to manage the handspec to the greatest advantage; and to perform this the sailors must all rise at once upon the windlass, and, fixing their bars therein, give a sudden jerk at the same instant, in which movement they are regulated by a sort of song or howl pronounced by one of their number.\n\nRather than the well-developed songs that characterize shanties, this \"howl\" and others were evidently structured as simple chants in the manner of \"1, 2,\"3\"!\" The same dictionary noted that French sailors said just that, and gave some indication what an English windlass chant may have been like:\n\n\"UN, deux, troi\", an exclamation, or song, used by seamen when hauling the bowlines, the greatest effort being made at the last word. English sailors, in the same manner, call out on this occasion,—haul-in—haul-two—haul-belay!\n\nSuch simple or brief chants survived into the 19th century. First-hand observers such as Frederick Pease Harlow, a sailor of the 1870s, attested to their ubiquity, saying that they were brought into use whenever a brief task required one. In historical hindsight these items have come to be generically called \"sing-outs\"; yet even before the known advent of the term \"shanty\", Richard Henry Dana referred to \"singing out.\"\n\nThe wind was whistling through the rigging, loose ropes flying about; loud and, to me, unintelligible orders constantly given and rapidly executed, and the sailors \"singing out\" at the ropes in their hoarse and peculiar strains.\n\nLater writers distinguished such chants and \"sing-outs\" from shanties proper, but in the case of relatively \"simple\" shanties—such as those for hauling sheets and tacks (see below)—there is a grey area. This has led some to believe that the more sophisticated shanties of later years developed from the more primitive chants.\n\nA step up in sophistication from the sing-outs was represented by the first widely established sailors' work song of the 19th century, \"Cheer'ly Man.\" Although other work-chants were evidently too variable, non-descript, or incidental to receive titles, \"Cheer'ly Man\" appears referred to by name several times in the early part of the century, and it lived on alongside later-styled shanties to be remembered even by sailors recorded by James Madison Carpenter in the 1920s. \"Cheer'ly Man\" makes notable appearances in the work of both Dana (sea experience 1834–36) and Herman Melville (sea experience 1841–42).\n\nWhen we came to mast-head the top-sail yards, with all hands at the halyards, we struck up \"Cheerily, men,\" with a chorus which might have been heard half way to Staten Land.\n\nThe decks were all life and commotion; the sailors on the forecastle singing, \"Ho, cheerly men!\" as they catted the anchor;\n\nAlthough \"Cheer'ly Man\" could be considered more \"developed\" than the average sing-out, in its form it is yet different from the majority of shanties that are known to us today, suggesting that it belonged to an earlier stage of sailors' songs that preceded the emergence of \"modern\" shanties.\n\nDetailed reference to shipboard practices that correspond to shanty-singing was extremely rare before the 1830s. In the first place, singing while working was generally limited to merchant ships, not war ships. The Royal Navy banned singing during work—it was thought the noise would make it harder for the crew to hear commands—though capstan work was accompanied by the bosun's pipe, or else by fife and drum or fiddle. A writer from the 1830s made this clear: \n\nOn board a well-disciplined man-of-war, no person except the officers is allowed to speak during the performance of the various evolutions. When a great many men are employed together, a fifer or a fiddler usually plays some of their favourite tunes; and it is quite delightful to see the glee with which Jack will \"stamp and go,\" keeping exact time to \"Jack's the lad,\" or the \"College Hornpipe.\"\n\nFife and fiddle were also used, in earlier times, for work aboard merchant vessels.\n\nOne of the earliest references to shanty-like songs that has been discovered was made by an anonymous \"steerage passenger\" in a log of a voyage of an East India Company ship, entitled \"The Quid\" (1832). Crew and passengers alike were noted to join in at heaving the capstan around. They were said to sing \"old ditties,\" along with which a few verses to one or more songs is given. While this practice was analogous to the practice of what is later called singing \"capstan shanties,\" the form of these verses is not particularly similar to later shanties. These songs do not appear to correspond to any shanty known from later eras. It is possible that the long, monotonous task of heaving the capstan had long inspired the singing of time-passing songs of various sorts, such as those in \"The Quid\". For example, the composition of capstan-style \"sailor songs\" by Norwegian poet Henrik Wergeland as early as 1838 implies that Scandinavians also used such songs. However, these older songs can be distinguished from the later type of songs that were given the label \"shanty\", suggesting there were other formative influences that gave birth to an appreciably new and distinctly recognized phenomenon.\n\nUse of the term \"shanty,\" once this paradigm for singing had become a comprehensive practice for most tasks, incorporated all manner of shipboard work songs under its definition, regardless of style and origin. Yet, shanties were of several types, and not all had necessarily developed at the same time. \"Capstan shanties\" (see below), some of which may have developed out of the earlier capstan songs discussed above, are quite variable in their form and origins. On the other hand, the repertoire of the so-called \"halyard shanties\" coheres into a consistent form. The distinctive \"double-pull\" format that typifies most of these songs—also at times used, with slight changes, for pumps, windlass, and capstan, too—was a later development that appears to owe much to African-American work songs.\n\nIn the first few decades of the 19th century, White European-American culture, especially the Anglophone—the sailors' \"Cheer'ly Man\" and some capstan songs notwithstanding—was not known for its work songs. By contrast, African workers, both in Africa and in the New World, were widely noted to sing while working. The fact that Euro-American observers found African work-singers so remarkable (as can be gleaned from the tone of their descriptions) suggests that work songs were indeed rather foreign to their culture. Such references begin to appear in the late 18th century, whence one can see the cliché develop that Black Africans \"could not\" work without singing. For example, an observer in Martinique in 1806 wrote, \"The negroes have a different air and words for every kind of labour; sometimes they sing, and their motions, even while cultivating the ground, keep time to the music.\" So while the depth of the African-American work song traditions is now recognized, in the early 19th century they stood in stark contrast to the paucity of such traditions among Euro-Americans. Thus while European sailors had learned to put short chants to use for certain kinds of labor, the paradigm of a comprehensive system of developed work songs for most tasks may have been contributed by the direct involvement of or through the imitation of African-Americans. The work contexts in which African-Americans sang songs comparable to shanties included:\n\n\nDuring the first half of the 19th century, some of the songs African-Americans sang also began to appear in use for shipboard tasks, i.e. as shanties.\n\nAn example of a work song that was shared between several contexts, including, eventually, sailors working, is \"Grog Time o' Day.\" This song, the tune of which is now lost, was sung by: Jamaican stevedores at a capstan in 1811; Afro-Caribbeans rowing a boat in Antigua ca.1814; Black stevedores loading a steamboat in New Orleans in 1841; and a Euro-American crew hauling halyards on a clipper-brig out of New York ca.1840s. Other such multi-job songs were: \"Round the Corn(er), Sally,\" \"Fire Down Below,\" \"Johnny Come Down to Hilo,\" \"Hilo, Boys, Hilo,\" \"Tommy's Gone Away,\" \"The Sailor Likes His Bottle-O,\" \"Highland Laddie,\" \"Mudder Dinah,\" \"Bully in the Alley,\" \"Hogeye Man,\" \"Good Morning, Ladies, All,\" \"Pay Me the Money Down,\" \"Alabama, John Cherokee,\" \"Yankee John, Stormalong,\" and \"Heave Away (My Johnnies).\"\n\nWhile the non-sailor occupations noted above were mainly within the purview of Black laborers, the last of them, cotton-screwing, was one in which non-Blacks also began to engage by the 1840s. These workers often came from the ranks of sailors of the trans-Atlantic cotton trade, including sailors from Britain and Ireland who, wanting to avoid the cold winter seasons on the Atlantic, went ashore to engage in the well-paid labor of cotton-screwing. A Euro-American who did just that in 1845 in New Orleans wrote,\n\nThe day after our arrival the crew formed themselves into two gangs and obtained employment at screwing cotton by the day... With the aid of a set of jack-screws and a ditty, we would stow away huge bales of cotton, singing all the while. The song enlivened the gang and seemed to make the work much easier.\n\nShanty-writer Stan Hugill called Mobile Bay—one of the main cotton outports—a \"shanty mart,\" at which sailors and laborers of different cultural backgrounds traded their songs.\n\nCommenters on the ethnic or national origins of shanties, writing in the 19th century when shanties were still in wide use, generally supposed the genre to originate in America and recognized parallels to African-American singing—as opposed to earlier English traditions from Britain. An early article to offer an opinion on the origin of shanties (though not calling them by that name), appearing in Oberlin College's student paper in 1858, drew a comparison between Africans' singing and sailor work songs.\n\nAlong the African coast you will hear that dirge-like strain in all their songs, as at work or paddling their canoes to and from shore, they keep time to the music. On the southern plantations you will hear it also, and in the negro melodies every where, plaintive and melodious, sad and earnest. It seems like the dirge of national degradation, the wail of a race, stricken and crushed, familiar with tyranny, submission and unrequited labor… And here I cannot help noticing the similarity existing between the working chorus of the sailors and the dirge-like negro melody, to which my attention was specially directed by an incident I witnessed or rather heard.\n\nThe author went on to relate an incident in which he once heard \"a well known strain of music,\" finding to his surprise that it was being sung by Black men rowing canoes. He claimed they were singing, \"Heigh Jim along, Jim along Josey, Heigh Jim along, Jim along Jo!\" The implication is that this song was similar to a sailor song, probably the well-known shanty, \"Haul Away, Joe\" or \"Haul Away for Rosie,\" viz.: \"Way, haul away; O, haul away, my Rosey; Way, haul away; O, haul away, \"Joe\".\" The writer did not make a further connection to the minstrel song \"Jim Along Josey,\" a relationship to which is obvious, although it is unknown whether this was the inspiration for the shanty or vice versa.\n\nIn much of the shanty repertoire known today one finds parallels to the minstrel songs that came to popularity from the 1840s. The poetic meter of the couplets of many minstrel songs is identical to those in shanties, and the \"non sequitur\"-type \"floating verses\" of those songs were heavily borrowed. In an influential early article about shanties, New York journalist William L. Alden drew a comparison between shanties and \"both\" authentic African-American songs and the quasi-African-American minstrel songs:\n\nThe old sailor songs had a peculiar individuality. They were barbaric in their wild melody. The only songs that in any way resemble them in character are \"Dixie\", and two or three other so-called negro songs by the same writer. This man, known in the minstrel profession as \"Old Emmett\", caught the true spirit of the African melodies—the lawless, half-mournful, half-exulting songs of the Kroomen. These and the sailor songs could never have been the songs of civilized men…\nUndoubtedly many sailor songs have a negro origin. They are the reminiscences of melodies sung by negroes stowing cotton in the holds of ships in Southern ports. The \"shanty-men,\" those hards of the forecastle, have preserved to some extent the meaningless words of negro choruses, and have modified the melodies so as to fit them for salt-water purposes. Certain other songs were unmistakably the work of English sailors of an uncertain but very remote period.\n\nAlden was not writing as a research historian, but rather as an observer of the then-current shanty-singing. His, then, was an impression of shanties based on their style and manner of performance, and he was writing at a time when shanties had yet to become framed by writers and media as belonging to any canon of national \"folk music.\"\n\nAn English author of the period, William Clark Russell, expressed his belief in several works that shanties were American in origin.\n\nI think it may be taken that we owe the sailors' working song as we now possess it to the Americans. How far do these songs date back? I doubt if the most ancient amongst them is much older than the century. It is noteworthy that the old voyagers do not hint at the sailors singing out or encouraging their efforts by choruses when at work. In the navy, of course, this sort of song was never permitted. Work proceeded to the strains of a fiddle, to the piping of the boatswain and his mates, or in earlier times yet, to the trumpet. The working song then is peculiar to the Merchant Service, but one may hunt through the old chronicles without encountering a suggestion of its existence prior to American independence and to the establishment of a Yankee marine.\n\nAs time wore on and shanties were established as an indispensable tool aboard the ships of many nations carrying heterogeneous crew, inspiration from several national and cultural traditions fed into the repertoire and their style was subsequently shaped by countless individuals. Whatever their fundamental origins, by the late 19th century shanties constituted the heritage of international seamen, with little or no necessary national associations.\n\nWriters have characterized the origin of shanties (or perhaps a \"revival\" in shanties, as William Main Doerflinger theorized) as belonging to an era immediately following the War of 1812 and up to the American Civil War. This was a time when there was relative peace on the seas and shipping was flourishing. The United States had come to the fore as a maritime leader, especially due to the nation's design of packet ships. These ships carried cargo and passengers on fixed schedules, largely operating across the Atlantic. Packet ships were larger and yet sailed with fewer crew than vessels of earlier eras, in addition to the fact that they were expected on strict schedules. These requirements called for an efficient and disciplined use of human labor. American vessels, especially, gained reputations for cruelty as officers demanded high results from their crew. The shanties of the 19th century could be characterized as a sort of new \"technology\" adopted by sailors to adapt to this way of shipboard life.\n\nRecent research has considered a wider range of 19th century sources than had been possible by 20th-century writers. The evidence from these sources suggests that even in the mid-1830s the genre was still developing, which shifts the period of the rise and flourishing of shanties to a bit later than was previously accepted. The general silence of the historical record on modern shanties until as late as the 1840s, even as shipping shifted to the even faster clipper ships, suggests that they may not have come into widespread use until the middle of the century. They received a boost from the heavy emigrant movement of gold rushes in California and Australia. Popular shanties of the 1850s included \"A Hundred Years Ago,\" \"One More Day,\" \"Santiana,\" \"Haul on the Bowline,\" \"Across the Western Ocean,\" and especially \"Stormalong.\"\n\nBy the American Civil War, the shanty form was fully developed, after which its repertoire grew and its implementation was widespread and rather standardized. The decade of the 1870s represents the zenith of the genre; those sailors who first went to sea after that decade are considered not to have seen shanties in their prime. In 1882, Alden was already lamenting the passing of shanties due to the proliferation of steamships.\n\nThe \"shanty-man\"—the chorister of the old packet ship—has left no successors. In the place of a rousing \"pulling song,\" we now hear the rattle of the steam-winch; and the modern windlass worked by steam, or the modern steam-pump, gives us the clatter of cogwheels and the hiss of steam in place of the wild choruses of other days. Singing and steam are irreconcilable. The hoarse steam-whistle is the nearest approach to music that can exist in the hot, greasy atmosphere of the steam-engine.\n\nOther writers echoed Alden's lament through and after the 1880s; the first collections of shanties appeared in that decade, in one sense as a response to what the authors believed was a vanishing art. Shanties continued to be used to some extent so long as windjammers were, yet these were comparatively few in the early 20th century.\n\nFolklorists of the first decade of the 20th century, especially those from Britain, included shanties among their interests in collecting folk songs connected with the idea of national heritage. Cecil Sharp and his cohort among the English Folk-Song Society were among the first to take down the lyrics and tunes of shanties directly from the lips of veteran sailors and to publish them more or less faithfully. Their efforts were matched by a number of less-rigorous articles and published collections issued by former sailors themselves. By the 1920s, the body of literature on shanties had grown quite large, yet it was of variable quality. Most editors presented \"ideal\" versions of songs—not reflecting any one way the shanty may have been sung, but rather a composite picture, edited for print. Bowdlerization and omission of lyrics were typical. Moreover, few authors were trained folklorists and even fewer maintained a critical historical methodology. Editors customarily published fanciful, often nostalgic introductions to the material that included unsubstantiated statements. As a result, though much of the vanishing shanty repertoire was preserved in skeletal form, aspects of the genre were re-envisioned according to contemporary perceptions.\n\nThese early 20th century collectors' choices of what to include, what to exclude, and how to frame the repertoire all had an effect on how following generations have viewed the genre. Because sailors who had sung shanties were by this time very old or dead, and the general public had little opportunity to experience performances of shanties, the representations by these authors were all the more influential in mediating information and creating the impression of \"standard\" versions of songs.\n\nThe English poet John Masefield, following in the footsteps of peers like Rudyard Kipling, seized upon shanties as a nostalgic literary device, and included them along with much older, non-shanty sea songs in his 1906 collection \"A Sailor's Garland\". Although Masefield had sea experience (1891–95), he was not an expert on shanties and the versions he gave of songs cannot be assumed entirely authentic. For example, he admits to never having heard a pumping shanty, and yet he goes on to present one without citing its source. In one of his earlier articles, his shanties are set to melodies taken verbatim from Davis and Tozer's earlier work, and he mentions having utilized that and the other widely available collection (L.A. Smith, 1888) as resources. Masefield desired to connect shanties with much older English traditions and literature, and his characterization of individual items as such would prove attractive to later enthusiasts. So for example, Masefield implied that the shanty \"A-roving\" (which he titled \"The Maid of Amsterdam\") was derived from Thomas Heywood's \"The Tragedy of the Rape of Lucrece\" (1608). Lyrics and ideas from Masefield's collection became among the most quoted or plagiarized in later shanty collections, and by their sheer ubiquity these contributed to 20th century audiences' perceptions of the genre.\n\nThe 1914 collection by Frank Thomas Bullen, \"Songs of Sea Labour\", differed from the work of writers such as Masefield in having a more practical, rather than romantic, tone. Bullen, an Englishman, was an experienced shantyman, who sailed during the heyday of shanties to ports in the Southern U.S. and the Caribbean. He took a firm stance that only true work songs should be included in his collection, thus resisting the temptation to let shanties slide into the genres of ballads or other off-duty songs. (Pressure of his publisher forced him to include two sea songs, clearly demarcated, at the end of the book.) And rather than shape the shanties to appear as narrative pieces, he noted that, since most shanties would usually be improvised, it would be disingenuous to present more than one or two sample verses. As for his framing of the genre's origins, Bullen stated his belief that, \"[T]he great majority of these tunes undoubtably emanated from the negroes of the Antilles and the Southern states, a most tuneful race if ever there was one, men moreover who seemed unable to pick up a ropeyarn without a song…\" And Bullen's musicologist editor, Arnold, claimed, \"[T]he majority of the Chanties are Negroid in origin…\" Bullen's insistence on including only true work songs in the collection meant that he likely omitted songs—generally those for heaving tasks, like capstan work—which had been easily borrowed from the land-based traditions of various nations. The effect of including only the most exclusively work-oriented songs meant that a higher percentage of African-American songs were represented. \n\nSomewhere between these perspectives was Cecil Sharp's, whose \"English Folk-Chanteys\" (1914) was published in the same year, and was based on shanties he collected from aged English sailors in Britain. Sharp responds to Bullen's claims of African-American origins by ceding that many shanties were influenced through the singing of Black shantymen—a position that assumes English folk song was the core of the tradition by default. The title of Sharp's work reflects his project of collecting and grouping shanties as part of what he conceived to be a rather continuous English folk song tradition. Sharp states in the introduction that he deliberately excluded shanties which were obviously (i.e. to him) born of popular songs. This idea is problematic when one considers that the popular songs that were feeding shanties were largely American and based in real or imagined African-American musical traits. However, Sharp believed that by eliminating such shanties based on popular songs, he could concentrate those that were \"folk\" songs. Of his own admission, Sharp lacked any shantying or sea experience to intuitively judge shanties like someone such as Bullen, however he offers his objectivity, recording precisely what was sung to him, as consolation. While Sharp's manner of documenting shanties was more or less objective, the field of his research and his biases in what to collect certainly influenced the outcome of this study. And whereas Bullen's work was fairly inaccessible, Sharp was influential as the leader of a cohort of scholars who were actively creating the young field of folk song research.\n\nBy the 1920s, the proliferation of shanty collections had begun to facilitate a revival in shanty singing as entertainment for laypersons (see below), which in turn created a market for more shanty collections that were geared towards a general audience. Writers of the 1920s, 30s, and 40s, through their derivative, popular works, established in effect a new body of \"common knowledge\" about shanties that overwrote some of the knowledge of 19th century observers.\n\nEven while the proliferation of soft-scholarly books was reifying the shanty repertoire, a few American scholars were audio-recording some of the last surviving sailors that had sung shanties as part of their daily work. Robert Winslow Gordon, founding head of the Archive of American Folk Song at the Library of Congress, recorded sailors singing shanties in the San Francisco Bay Area in the early 1920s. He later made recordings of African-American work songs in Georgia and elsewhere, and sought to demonstrate correspondences between these and the shanty genre. Even more prolific in collecting shanties was James Madison Carpenter, who made hundreds of recordings of shanties from singers in Britain, Ireland, and the north-eastern U.S. in the late 1920s, allowing him to make observation from an extensive set of field data. Neither of these scholars had the opportunity, however, to publish major works on shanties. Similarly, Alan Lomax's work starting in the 1930s, especially his field recordings of work songs in the Caribbean and Southern U.S., makes a significant contribution to the information on extant shanty-related traditions. Lastly, William Main Doerflinger carefully recorded and collected shanties from singers in New York and Nova Scotia in the 1930s and 1940s, the result of which was his \"Songs of the Sailor and Lumberman\".\n\nOne of the most celebrated volumes on shanties produced in the 20th century is Stan Hugill's \"Shanties from the Seven Seas\" (1961). It is the largest of its kind, owing to Hugill's methodology and chronological position. With respect to methodology, Hugill aimed to be as inclusive as possible—to account for and to present, if sometimes only in fragments, any and all items of shanty repertoire that he was currently able to find. Any song that he had heard or read being attested as having been ever \"used as shanty\" was included—regardless of whether that song was not generally known as a shanty or if its use as a shanty was rare and incidental. The result is a varied portrait of the genre, highlighting its maximum diversity without, however, giving a focused sense of what songs were most common during the heyday of shanties or in latter eras. Hugill readily included more recently popular songs—those that evidently were not sung until after the shanty genre was experiencing decline, but which were extant when Hugill sailed (1920s–40s). He also culled from the major collections of non-English-language sailor work songs. Hugill's practice of liberally culling from all major prior works, \"in combination with\" original material from his own field experiences, makes it a handy sourcebook for performers, but a difficult work to assess in terms of historical accuracy.\n\nWith respect to chronological position, while Hugill is affectionately known as \"The Last Shantyman,\" he was also one of the last original shanty \"collectors\". A few original collections followed, notably Roger Abrahams' and Horace Beck's works on contemporary shantying in the Caribbean, yet most publications in the \"song collection\" genre are general anthologies based in Hugill and his predecessors' works. To a great extent, \"Shanties from the Seven Seas\" is considered the \"last word\" on shanties and the first stop as a reference. The book's \"authoritative\" position is bolstered by the personal image of its author. In contrast to many of the academic folklorists who had collected shanties before him, Hugill possessed the look and pedigree of an old-time sailor, and he was actually able to perform the songs from his collection at sea music festivals. \"Shanties from the Seven Seas\" and Stan Hugill's performances have had a tremendous bearing on how shanties have been understood and performed by enthusiasts since the second half of the 20th century up to today.\n\nEven as shanty singing to accompany work aboard ships was \"dying,\" interest was being taken in \"reviving\" it—as a type of leisure pastime. Most shanty singing since the mid-20th century or earlier is considered to be in such a \"revival\" vein.\n\nA few of the editors of early shanty collections provided arrangements for pianoforte accompaniment with their shanties. While this may have simply been a customary way of presenting songs or attempting to frame their tonality, it may also suggest they hoped their examples could be performed, as well. One of the earliest shanty collections, Davis and Tozer's \"Sailor Songs or 'Chanties\"' (which circulated in the early 1890s), included such accompaniment, along with safe, \"drawing room\" style lyrics. It is unknown whether any actual performances were based on this otherwise influential work, however, the proceedings from a meeting of the Manchester Literary Club, 4 February 1895, record an instance of laypersons attempting to recreate shanty performance at that early date. In general, shanty performance by laypersons, up through the first two decades of the 20th century, would have been hindered by the lack of suitable resources, if not lack of interest.\n\nIndependent of this literature, a revival of sorts was staged by the U.S. Shipping Board in 1918 when Stanton H. King of Boston, a merchant sailor of the 1880s, was appointed as \"Official Chantey Man for the American Merchant Marine.\" King taught shanties to the young Merchant Marine recruits, but it appears that they were used more for entertainment than work functions. A description of the daily training schedule included the following note:\n\nRecreation includes singing, for each ship is supplied with a piano. The musical program includes old-time chanties, in which the young men are instructed by a veteran deep-water chantie man.\n\nOn shore, a revival in shanty singing for leisure was facilitated by song collections of the 1920s, especially Terry's \"The Shanty Book\" (in two volumes, 1921 and 1926). What set apart this and following collections was full musical score along with an adequate stock of lyrics. Collections prior to Terry's (except for Davis and Tozer's much earlier and contrived-sounding settings) had not provided enough verses to create \"full\" songs, and it is unlikely that performers would venture to improvise new verses in the manner of traditional shantymen. By 1926, it had become a custom at the Seven Seas Club in London to hold a shanty sing-along after the club's monthly dinners. By 1928, commercial recordings of shanties, performed in the manner of classical concert singing, had been released on HMV, Vocalion, Parlophone, Edison, Aco, and Columbia labels; many were realizations of scores from Terry's collection. Shanties like \"Johnny Come Down to Hilo\" were more or less standardized through popular dissemination.\n\nThe next revival in shanties occurred as part of the Anglophone folk music revival of the mid-20th century. The American folk revival group The Almanac Singers were recruited by Alan Lomax to record several shanties for the 1941 album Deep Sea Chanteys and Whaling Ballads. In Britain, the incorporation of shanties into the folk revival repertoire was largely led by A.L. Lloyd starting in the 1950s. An amateur folklorist, Lloyd discarded the earlier classical style of presentations in favor of a more \"authentic\" performance style. He was generally mysterious about the sources of his shanty arrangements; he obviously referred to collections by editors like Sharp, Colcord, and Doerflinger, however it is often unclear when and whether his versions were based in field experience or his private invention. Lloyd's album \"The Singing Sailor\" (1955) with Ewan MacColl was an early milestone, which made an impression on Stan Hugill when he was preparing his 1961 collection, particularly as the performance style it embodied was considered more appropriate than that of earlier commercial recordings. Many other performers followed, creating influential versions and interpretations of shanties that persist today. For example, Lloyd's personal interpretation of \"South Australia\" was taken up by the Irish folk revival group The Clancy Brothers, from which this version spread to countless folk performers to become established as the \"standard\" form of what is usually presented as a \"traditional\" shanty. Through the mass distribution of particular shanty forms through recordings and clubs, the Folk Revival has had the effect of creating an impression of rather consistent forms of texts and tunes—a sharp contrast to the highly variable and often improvised nature of work-based shanty singing. Another effect, due to the fact that most folk performers sang shanties along with other genres, is that shanty repertoire was ever more incorporated within the generic fold of \"folk song,\" and their distinctive use, manner of performance, and identity were co-opted.\n\nWith one foot firmly planted in the world of traditional shanties, the veteran sailor and author Stan Hugill also became a leader (and follower) of trends in the folk music revival. His presence as an exclusive performer of sailor songs did much to establish sea music as a revival genre apart from or within folk music. By the late 1970s, the activities of enthusiasts and scholar-performers at places like the Mystic Seaport Museum (who initiated an annual Sea Music Festival in 1979) and the San Francisco Maritime Museum established sea music—inclusive of shanties, sea songs, and other maritime music—as a genre with its own circuit of festivals, record labels, performance protocol, and so on.\n\nIn the days when human muscles were the only power source available aboard ship, shanties served practical functions. The rhythm of the song served to synchronize the movements of the sailors or to pace the labor as they toiled at repetitive tasks. Singing helped to alleviate boredom and to lighten, perhaps, the psychological burden of hard work. Shanties may also be said to have served a social purpose, as to build camaraderie.\n\nAll shanties had a chorus of some sort, in order to allow the crew to sing all together. Many shanties had a \"call and response\" format, with one voice (the shantyman) singing the solo lines and the rest of the sailors bellowing short refrains in response (compare military cadence calls).\n\nThe \"shantyman\" was a regular sailor who led the others in singing. He was usually self-appointed. A sailor would not generally sign on as a shantyman \"per se\", but took on the role in addition to their other tasks on the ship. Nevertheless, sailors reputed to be good shantymen were valued and respected.\n\nThe following example, a verse of the shanty \"Boney\" (in reference to Napoleon), shows the call and response form and the interplay between the voices of the shantyman and the crew.\n<poem>\nShantyman (\"solo\"): Boney was a warrior,\nAll (\"refrain\"): Way-ay-\"ya\",\nShantyman (\"solo\"): A reg'lar bull and tarrier,\nAll (\"refrain\"): John Fran\"çois!\"</poem>\n\nWhen working this as a \"short-drag\" shanty (see below), hands on the line would synchronize their pulls with the last syllable of each response (in italics).\n\nThe practical function of shanties as work songs was given priority over their lyrics or the musicality of a performance. Due to this, shanty texts might have been poor from an aesthetic standpoint—even at times random nonsense—so long as the singing fit the form of the work song. One writer about shanties warned his readers that their lyrics, to landsmen, would \"probably appear as the veriest doggerel.\" He went on to explain,\n\nAs a rule, the chantey in its entirety possesses neither rhyme nor reason; nevertheless, it is admirably fitted for sailors' work. Each of these sea-songs has a few stock verses or phrases to begin with, but after these are sung, the soloist must improvise, and it is principally his skill in this direction that marks the successful chantey-man.\n\nImprovisation and stock verses were the tools of the trade of shantymen. Similar to the blues, shanties often exhibited a string of such verses without much explicit or continuous theme. While on one hand this may simply reflect the aesthetic of the music-culture from which the form originated, this, too, was a feature suited to practical restrictions. Work tasks might be of any length and often unpredictable. Songs with a fixed set of verses, or ballads, which tell a story, were not so well suited to tasks that could end abruptly at any time or that might require extending.\n\nImprovising of lyrics in such a context could be seen as an African-American musical characteristic, as Euro-American observers of Black work-singing consistently remarked on its extempore nature. Stock verses helped the shantyman fill space when his creative faculties came up short. These might take the form of multipurpose clichés, like,\n<poem>\nUp aloft this yard must go.\n[refrain]\nUp aloft from down below.\n[refrain]</poem>\n\nOr, the shantyman may use formulas, like \"Were you ever in [blank]?\", for example,\n<poem>\nWere you ever down in Mobile Bay?\n[refrain]\nA-screwing cotton by the day?\n[refrain]</poem>\n\nMany stock verses used phrases that \"floated\" between both minstrel and authentic African-American traditional songs. For example, the phrase \"girl with the blue dress on\" is documented in a Black muledriver's song and in a popular minstrel song, as well as in a few shanties, for example,\n<poem>\nO wake her, O shake her,\nO shake that girl with the blue dress on,\nO Johnny come to Hilo;\nPoor old man.</poem>\n\nAs evident from the last lyric, above, shanty lyrics were not limited to seafaring or work topics. Drawing lyrics (and sometimes entire songs) from the popular and traditional repertoires of the time meant that a wide range of themes were represented.\n\nShanties reflect a variety of source material. As discussed above, there is a notable correspondence between shanties and African-American songs of both work and leisure. Popular music of the time was readily adapted, especially the minstrel music genre, songs of whose couplets were often of a suitable metrical length. It is common to find phrases from minstrel songs of the late 1830s and 1840s in many shanties, like \"A Long Time Ago,\" \"Jamboree,\" \"Johnny Come Down to Hilo,\" or \"Johnny Bowker.\" Music hall songs also had an influence, for example \"Paddy on the Railway.\" Popular marches were borrowed especially for capstan work, including \"John Brown's Body\" and \"Marching Through Georgia.\" A few shanties have ballad forms, such as \"The Dreadnaught,\" \"The Banks of Newfoundland,\" and \"The Golden Vanitee\", but these were relatively uncommon and required the addition of a chorus section. However, shantymen more often adapted lyrics and themes from ballads and \"spliced\" them to existing shanty melodies and choruses. Other shanties were adapted from land-based traditional songs, for example \"Billy Boy\" and \"The Derby Ram.\"\n\nBroadly speaking, the categories for shanties can be understood in terms of whether the task(s) for which they were used was/were related to \"hauling\" or \"heaving\". \"Hauling\" (pulling) actions were intermittent in nature. They required a coordinated show of focused exertion, not sustained, but rather at specific moments. Shanties for hauling tasks thus coordinated the timing of those exertions, the \"pulls.\" \"Heaving\" (pushing) actions were of a continuous nature. In these, coordination was of minor importance as compared to \"pacing\". Rather than rhythmically \"timing\" the labor, shanties for heaving were more intended to set an appropriate, manageable pace and to occupy or inspire workers throughout the duration of what could often be long tasks.\n\n\n\n\nThe above categories, with respect to the repertoire they contain, are not absolute. Sailors often took a song from one category and, with necessary alterations to the rhythm, tempo, or form, used it for a different task. This can be seen in the frequent lack of consensus, among different writers and informants, as to what job a given shanty was used for.\n\nShanties are work songs and were originally sung only for work. However, sailors also sang for pleasure in the fo'c's'le (forecastle) where they slept or, in fine weather, gathered near the fore bitts (large posts on the foredeck). While songs with maritime themes were sung, all manner of popular songs and ballads on any subject might be sung off watch. The leisure songs associated with sailors are labeled simply as \"sea songs,\" but they have no consistent formal characteristics. They are also popularly known among enthusiasts, especially when distinguishing them from shanties, as \"fo'c's'le songs\" or \"forebitters\". Although those terms were not in great evidence in the 19th century, some literary references to \"fore-bitter\" and, less so, \"fo'c'sle song,\" attest to their use even prior to the appearance of \"shanty.\" Unlike shanties, during the singing of which one's hands were occupied, sea songs might be sung to the accompaniment of handy instruments like fiddle or concertina.\n\nExamples of sea songs include \"Spanish Ladies\", first popular in the Royal Navy, and \"The Stately Southerner\", a ballad about a U.S. war ship. Examples of sea songs that were poorly documented in the sailing era, but which gained great popularity among singers in the revival era, are \"The Leaving of Liverpool\" and \"Rolling Down to Old Maui.\"\n\nWhile the crews of merchant ships in which shanties were sung might have come from a wide variety of national and ethnic backgrounds and might have spoken various mother-tongues, the shanty genre was by and large an English-language phenomenon. However, non-English-language sailor work songs were also developed. They are generally of these types:\n\nThere are notable bodies of shanty repertoire in Swedish, Norwegian, Dutch, French, and Welsh, and shanties have been translated into Polish and German. The terms for shanties in these languages do not always precisely correlate with English usage. In French, or \"sailor's song\" is a broad category that includes both work and leisure songs. Swedish uses \"sjömansvisa\", \"sailor song,\" as a broad category, but tends to use the borrowed \"shanty\" to denote a work song. Similarly, Norwegian uses \"sjømannsvise\" as the broad category and the borrowed term (also spelled \"shanty\") or the native \"oppsang\" for work songs. The equivalents in German are \"Seemannslied\" and, again, shanty. A shanty in Polish is .\n\nSubstantial collections of non-English shanties include the following, which have been instrumental in forming the modern day sailor song repertoires of revival performers in their respective languages:<br>\n\n\nHistorically, shanties were usually not sung outside of work contexts, and singing sea songs was generally the purview of sailors. However, since their revival as leisure songs among laypersons they have been performed in a variety of contexts. Similarly to Euro-American folk music, shanties and sea songs are performed both informally by amateurs and as commercial entertainment by professionals, with many performers straddling both contexts. Some performers focus on shanties, sea songs, and related material, as part of the genre of maritime music, whereas in other cases performers of popular music (including the Folk genre) and classical music bring songs from the shanty repertoire into their own.\n\nDevoted performances of shanties display certain customs and general trends in different areas. However, the genre is an international one; practices vary freely and are not limited to the following generalizations.\n\nIn North America, enthusiasts may gather at regularly scheduled, open singing sessions, for example the \"chantey sings\" held monthly aboard the ship \"Balclutha\" in San Francisco or weekly in Gloucester, Massachusetts. At these sessions, any participant is free to start up and lead a shanty, which the rest of those present—sometimes over one hundred or more participants—join on the choruses. The gatherings aim for an inclusive atmosphere that welcomes people of all ages, genders, ethnicities, and singing abilities. North American professionals often perform solo or in very small groups, frequently using instruments. Annual maritime festivals in coastal towns provide a gathering point for both amateurs and professionals, and the site for the introduction of new interpretations.\n\nIn the U.K., shanties find a venue in pubs that host \"folk clubs.\" Professional performers tend to be in larger groups with a more substantial chorus, allowing for \"a capella\" performances. They are frequently identified with a specific port town to which they belong. Many annual maritime festivals in Britain and across the Channel provide contexts for performance.\n\nShanty choirs (German \"Shantychor\", Dutch \"shantykoor\"), often large choral groups that perform only sailor songs, are especially popular in the Netherlands, Germany, and Norway. Polish performers of shanties favor medium-sized groups, often singing in harmony, accompanying themselves on instruments, and presenting themselves similarly to the way a rock band would.\n\nItems from the shanty and sea song repertoire have been brought into the repertoires of performers of folk music, rock, and Western classical music. Sources for these renditions include books by folklorists and commercial recordings by shanty revival performers. The forms these performers produce tend to be quite standardized and relate to their source material similar to the way a cover song does. This can be contrasted with the method of performers focusing on maritime music, who tend to think of themselves as operating within that genre or a tradition, and who develop their repertoire from multiple sources and through various experiences.\n\nThe Folk Revival movement is one in which shanties themselves were often revived, especially as they have been viewed as a branch of heritage traditional songs of Anglophone culture. Several of the early performers in the Folk genre performed and recorded a significant number of sailor songs. For example, Paul Clayton recorded the album \"Whaling and Sailing Songs from the Days of Moby Dick\" (Tradition Records) in 1956, and Burl Ives' Down to the Sea in Ships came out in the same year. Since at least the 1950s, certain shanties have become staples of the Folk genre. This is evidenced in the popular Folk music fake book \"Rise Up Singing\", which includes such shanties as \"Blow the Man Down,\" \"What Shall We Do with a Drunken Sailor,\" and \"Bound for South Australia.\"\n\nBorrowings into Rock music have often resulted from the fluid borders between Folk and Rock performers and audiences. For example, Bruce Springsteen's \"Pay Me My Money Down\" derives from the interpretation by the Folk group The Weavers, who in turn found it among the collected shanties once traditionally performed by residents of the Georgia Sea Islands. Some Rock performers, too, have been inspired to adopt shanties as part of what they perceive to be a connection to their regional or national heritage. For example, The Pogues recorded \"Poor Paddy [Works on the Railway]\" in the arrangement of Folk group The Dubliners, ostensibly because of the Irish connection. Others have been fascinated by \"sea\" themes, including \"pirates\" and the perceived freedom, wildness, or debauchery of sailor culture.\n\nClassical composers have used shanties and sea songs (or their melodies) in their works. The English composer Percy Grainger is a notable case. Malcolm Arnold's \"Three Shanties\" for woodwind quintet (1943) develops motifs from \"Drunken Sailor,\" \"Boney Was a Warrior,\" and \"Johnny Come Down to Hilo.\"\n\nShanty performances today reflect a range of musical approaches and tastes. The purpose and parameters of shanty singing in the present era have had an influence on which shanties are sung and how.\n\nPerformers who favor a \"traditional\" style do not necessarily believe they are replicating the exact style of shanty singing of the 19th century. However, within the constraints of modern contexts, they tend to adhere to certain stylistic traits that are believed to have characterized the genre historically. These may include a loud or full voice, an emphatic, strident—even harsh—tone (as if to carry over the noise of wind and waves), and tempos and rhythms that are reasonably conducive to working. They often perform \"a capella\" or only with light instrumentation typical of sailors (e.g. concertina). In general, performances may be more \"rough around the edges\" and be of variable length to accommodate impromptu changes in verses.\n\nA great many of the performers of shanties do so in what might be distinguished as a \"folk music\" style. They tend to be more interested in the songs themselves and less in the \"shanty style\" of performance, in favor of music that may be considered more pleasant, less rough, and with more variation and interest than traditional shanties offer. Stylistic characteristics include lighter vocals with a \"folk\" timbre, livelier tempos, and instrumental interludes between verses. Invariably these performers choose to accompany themselves on instruments such as guitar and banjo. Their rhythms may be syncopated and quite different from work song rhythms, relying on the instruments to keep time rather than the voice.\n\nStill other performers come to shanties from backgrounds in pop, rock, or theatrical music, and perform in what may be called a \"contemporary\" style. Some of the preferred characteristics are smooth, pop-style vocal timbre, carefully worked out harmony, and engaging rhythms.\n\nLess commonly—though it was the case with their earliest commercial recordings—shanties are performed in a \"classical\" choir style. Choirs like the Robert Shaw Chorale, the Norman Luboff Choir, and The Seafarers Chorus have released entire albums of shanties and sea songs.\n\nAppearances of shanties, or songs and melodies labeled as \"shanties,\" in popular media can be anachronistic and fanciful. In accord with popular perception of shanties as a genre many hundreds of years old, songs with documented existence to only the mid-19th century, at the earliest, have been freely used to portray scenes from the 18th century and earlier. By imagining modern shanties to have been in use during such eras as the Golden Age of Piracy and the French Revolutionary Wars, anachronistic associations have been formed between shanties and \"pirates\" or the Royal Navy. Evidence for all these uses and associations can be found in the examples that follow in this section.\n\nMuch of the available historical information on shanties comes from travelogue literature, most of it of scarcely notable popularity, but some of it reaching a wide audience, such as Dana's \"Two Years Before the Mast\" (1840). However, some fiction writers up through the mid-19th century, who had sailing experience, also included scenes involving sailors' work songs. Among these authors were Horace Elisha Scudder, Elijah Kellogg, and Herman Melville. In \"Redburn: His First Voyage\", for example, Melville wrote:\n\nI soon got used to this singing; for the sailors never touched a rope without it. Sometimes, when no one happened to strike up, and the pulling, whatever it might be, did not seem to be getting forward very well, the mate would always say, \"Come, men, can't any of you sing? Sing now, and raise the dead.\" And then some one of them would begin, and if every man's arms were as much relieved as mine by the song, and he could pull as much better as I did, with such a cheering accompaniment, I am sure the song was well worth the breath expended on it. It is a great thing in a sailor to know how to sing well, for he gets a great name by it from the officers, and a good deal of popularity among his shipmates. Some sea-captains, before shipping a man, always ask him whether he can sing out at a rope.\n\nThe shanty genre was unfamiliar to much of the lay public until it was publicized in the 1880s, however, so most of the popular references in fiction do not begin until that decade. A well-known early example, though not strictly speaking a reference to a shanty, is the song \"Fifteen men on the dead man's chest\", which was invented by Robert Louis Stevenson for his novel \"Treasure Island\" (1883). Quotes of \"Blow the Man Down\" were particularly plentiful. Rudyard Kipling romanticized the idea of the sailor's sea song within the poetic genre with his works \"The First Chantey\" and \"The Last Chantey\" (1893).\n\nWhile shanties were historically understood as work songs, the word \"shanty\" has often been used in popular culture since the mid-20th century as a catch-all term that also includes songs supposed to have been sung during leisure time at sea, and even other songs about the sea or which vaguely inspire thoughts of the sea. Much of the historical shanty repertoire, being by definition designed to suit work, is less attractive as entertainment listening. The musical forms were highly repetitive, and the lyrics were quite often doggerel without any cohesive or preconceived composition. For these reasons, sea songs that were never or only exceptionally adapted as shanties—but which have engaging melodies and texts—have proved popular to 20th century audiences under the rubric of \"shanties.\" Both these non-shanty sailor songs and the historical repertoire of shanties are typically performed with instrumental accompaniment—something that was rare or unheard of at sea in the case of authentic shanties.\n\nMusic performers with no strong links to maritime music have interpreted traditional shanty and sea song compositions, of which widely scattered instances abound. For example, the bawdy sea song \"Frigging in the Rigging\" was recorded by the punk band Sex Pistols. Perhaps under the influence of Irish Folk Revival groups like The Clancy Brothers and The Dubliners, who included some shanties in their repertoires, some association has also been formed between shanties and Irish music. And so, looking back to these performers, later Irish-oriented rock groups like The Pogues interpreted traditional shanties and sea songs like \"South Australia\" and \"The Greenland Whale Fisheries.\" A notable instance where many non-maritime music performers tackled the traditional maritime repertoire stems from the actor Johnny Depp's reported interest in shanties that developed while filming \"Pirates of the Caribbean\". As a result, in 2006 Depp helped facilitate \".\" A medley of sea songs performed by concert orchestra, Sir Henry Wood's Fantasia on British Sea Songs, is a popular component of the Last Night of the Proms in Britain.\n\nThe musical \"style\" of shanties has also inspired new musical compositions, ranging from those designed to imitate 19th century song-style to those merely intended to evoke seafaring culture through evocative phrases and token musical features. For example, the Stan Rogers song, \"Barrett's Privateers\", being sung in a traditional style and having lyrics that relate an anecdote of maritime history, makes a convincing sea ballad and has been adopted into the repertoire of maritime music performers. Another newly composed song by folk singer Steve Goodman, \"Lincoln Park Pirates,\" uses the phrase, \"Way, hey, tow 'em away,\" imitating shanty choruses while at the same time anachronistically evoking the \"piracy\" in its subject. The theme song for the television show SpongeBob SquarePants has a shanty-like call and response structure and begins with a melodic phrase that matches the traditional \"Blow the Man Down,\" presumably because the character \"lives in a pineapple under the sea.\" The theme to Gilligan's Island was also inspired by shanty structure and style. An example of a more tenuous link between a new composition labeled as \"shanty\" and the salient characteristics of the genre, The Pogues recorded a song called \"Sea Shanty.\" The only characteristic it appears to share with the shanty genre is a 6/8 meter (displayed by some well known shanties like \"Blow the Man Down\").\n\nSongs from the shanty repertoire have appeared in motion pictures. These most often are not portrayed in an appropriate work context and sometimes not even a shipboard context, and many times they can be classed as anachronisms that serve to bring color and interest to the drama. The following is a sample list of notable films to have included traditional shanty repertoire.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7945955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7945955", "title": "Shared reading", "text": "Shared reading\n\nShared reading is an instructional approach in which the teacher explicitly models the strategies and skills of proficient readers.\n\nIn Brenda Parkes' text, Read It Again!, a guide for teachers to do shared reading in the classroom, the first chapter asks, What is Shared Reading? She then answers the question by writing, \" Shared reading is a collaborative learning activity, based on research by Don Holdaway (1979), that emulates and builds from the child's experience with bedtime stories.\"\n\nIn early childhood classrooms, shared reading typically involves a teacher and a large group of children sitting closely together to read and reread carefully selected enlarged texts. Shared reading can also be done effectively with smaller groups.\n\nWith this instructional technique, students have an opportunity to gradually assume more responsibility for the reading as their skill level and confidence increase. Shared reading also provides a safe learning environment for students to practice the reading behaviours of proficient readers with the support of teacher and peers. Shared reading may focus on needs indicated in assessment data and required by grade level curriculum expectations. The text is always chosen by the teacher and must be visible to the students.\n\nTraditionally, shared reading has used paper-based materials. However, recently a number of electronic resources have been developed. One such resource is an online resource called Mimic Books. This resource has been specifically designed to be used on interactive whiteboards for shared reading lessons. The benefits of this resource is that it replicates the look and appearance of a real big book but on the interactive whiteboard making it clearly visible to children. By increasing the amount of shared-reading in the home, parents are able to help children with their development of a larger knowledge base for understanding the world.\n\nThe main purpose of shared reading is to provide children with an enjoyable experience, introduce them to a variety of authors, illustrators and types of texts to entice them to become a reader. The second and equally as important purpose is to teach children the reading process and teach systematically and explicitly how to be readers and writers themselves. (Parkes, 2000). Through shared reading, children learn to track print and connect print to speech (Clay, 2000). By increasing the amount of shared-reading in the home, parents are able to help children with their development of a larger knowledge base for understanding the world.\n\nWhen selecting texts for reading, teachers typically look for text that is appropriate for the reading level of the students, that is also cross-curricular and relevant in its nature. The text should be of an appropriate length for study and be adequately complex. The text should also have an impact.\n\nIn primary grades, the teacher reads while the children are encouraged to read along. The more familiar the text, the more the teachers asks of the students in terms of reading, talking and answering questions about the reading. In upper grades, the teacher reads the text aloud after stating a focus, and then re-reads the text, asking questions specific to the focus of choice (and may ask students to join). The focus may include things like: analysis, predictions, drawing inferences, grammar and punctuation, vocabulary development, questioning, literacy elements, critical thinking, phrasing, fluency, intonation, character and plot Development.\n\nAccording to Morrow (2009), shared reading usually begins with a teacher reading from a Big Book so that everyone can see the text. Stories that have predictable plots are best because students can participate early on in the shared reading experience. During the first reading, students should simply listen to the story. The teacher might use a pointer to demonstrate directionality in text and one-to-one correspondence. As the text is read multiple times, students should begin to participate by chanting, making predictions, providing key words that are important in the story or participating in echo reading. Morrow (2009) also suggests to tape-record shared book readings and make it available for students to listen to at another time. \"This activity provides a familiar and fluent model for reading with good phrasing and intonation for children to emulate\" (Morrow, 2009, p. 199).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "914436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=914436", "title": "Shield-maiden", "text": "Shield-maiden\n\nA shield-maiden (), in Scandinavian folklore and mythology was a female warrior. They are often mentioned in sagas such as \"Hervarar saga ok Heiðreks\" and in \"Gesta Danorum\". Shield-maidens also appear in stories of other Germanic peoples: Goths, Cimbri, and Marcomanni. The mythical valkyries may have been based on the shield-maidens.\n\nThe historical existence of shield-maidens is heavily debated, but scholars including Neil Price, argue that they existed while others, like scholar Judith Jesch disagree, citing a lack of hard evidence for trained or regular women warriors.\n\nThere are few historic attestations that Viking Age women took part in warfare, but the Byzantine historian John Skylitzes records that women fought in battle when Sviatoslav I of Kiev attacked the Byzantines in Bulgaria in 971. When the Varangians (not to be confused with the Byzantine Varangian Guard) had suffered a devastating defeat in the Siege of Dorostolon, the victors were stunned at discovering armed women among the fallen warriors.\n\nWhen Leif Erikson's pregnant half-sister Freydís Eiríksdóttir was in Vinland, she is reported to have taken up a sword, and, bare-breasted, scared away the attacking Skrælings. The fight is recounted in the \"Greenland saga\", though Freydís is not explicitly referred to as a shield-maiden in the text.\n\nSaxo Grammaticus reported that shield-maidens fought on the side of the Danes at the Battle of Brávellir in the year 750:\nExamples of shield-maidens mentioned by name in the Norse sagas include Brynhildr in the \"Vǫlsunga saga\", Hervor in \"Hervarar saga ok Heiðreks\", the Brynhildr of the \"Bósa saga ok Herrauðs\", the Swedish princess Thornbjǫrg in \"Hrólfs saga Gautrekssonar\" and Princess Hed, Visna and Veborg in \"Gesta Danorum\".\n\nTwo shield-maidens appear in certain translations of the \"Hervarar saga\". The first of these Hervors was known to have taken up typically masculine roles early in her childhood and often raided travelers in the woods dressed as a man. Later in her life, she claimed the cursed sword Tyrfing from her father's burial site and became a seafaring raider. She eventually settled and married. Her granddaughter was also named Hervor and commanded forces against attacking Huns. Although the saga remarks on her bravery she is mortally wounded by enemy forces and dies on the battlefield. Scholars Judith Jesch and Jenny Jochens theorize that shield-maidens' often grim fates or their sudden return to typically female roles is a testament to their role as figures of both male and female fantasy as well as emblematic of the danger of abandoning gender roles.\n\nBrynhildr of the \"Vǫlsunga saga\", along with her rival in love, Guðrún Gjúkadóttir, provides an example of how a shield-maiden compares to more conventional aristocratic womanhood in the sagas. Brynhildr is chiefly concerned with honor, much like a male warrior. When she ends up married to Gudrun's brother Gunnarr instead of Sigurðr, the man she intended to marry, Brynhildr speaks a verse comparing the courage of the two men:\nBrynhildr is married to Gunnarr and not Sigurðr because of deceit and trickery, including a potion of forgetfulness given to Sigurðr so he forgets his previous relationship with her. Brynhildr is upset not only for the loss of Sigurðr but also for the dishonesty involved. Similar to her male counterparts, the shield-maiden prefers to do things straightforwardly, without the deception considered stereotypically feminine in much of medieval literature. She enacts her vengeance directly, resulting in the deaths of herself, Sigurðr, and Sigurð's son by Guðrún. By killing the child, she demonstrates an understanding of feud and filial responsibility; if he lived, the boy would grow up to take vengeance on Brynhildr's family.\n\nGuðrún has a similar concern with family ties, but at first does not usually act directly. She is more inclined to incite her male relatives to action than take up arms herself. Guðrún is no shield-maiden, and Brynhildr mocks her for this, saying, \"Only ask what is best for you to know. That is suitable for noble women. And it is easy to be satisfied while everything happens according to your desires.\" In her later marriages, however, she is willing to kill her children, burn down a hall, and send her other sons to avenge the murder of her daughter, Svanhildr. In the world of the sagas, women can be both honorable and remorseless, much like the male heroes. While a shield-maiden does not fill a woman's typical role, her strength of character is found in even the more domestic women in these stories.\n\nGraves of female settlers containing weapons have been uncovered, but scholars do not agree how these should be interpreted. Norse immigrant graves in England and chemical analysis of the remains suggested a somewhat equal distribution of men and women, suggesting husbands and wives, while some of the women were buried with weapons. In a tie-in special to the TV series \"Vikings\" Neil Price showed that a 10th Century Birka-burial excavated in the 1970s containing a large number of weapons and the bones of two horses turned out to be the grave of a woman upon bone analysis by Anna Kjellström. In 2017, DNA analysis confirmed that the person was female; the so called Birka female Viking warrior, but others including respected scholar of the Vikings, Judith Jesch says that conclusion is premature. \n\nWhile women warriors are a staple of fantasy, they are not often referred to as shield-maidens. Some who are include Éowyn in J. R. R. Tolkien's \"The Lord of the Rings\" and Thorgil in Nancy Farmer's \"The Sea of Trolls\" trilogy.\n\nIn the 2013 TV series \"Vikings\", the legendary Viking shield-maiden Lagertha, played by Katheryn Winnick, is a principal character.\n\n"}
{"id": "46708979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46708979", "title": "Sounds Like London", "text": "Sounds Like London\n\nSounds Like London: 100 Years of Black Music in the Capital is a 2013 book by the British music journalist and author Lloyd Bradley. The book features contributions by Eddy Grant, Osibisa, Russell Henderson, Dizzee Rascal and Trevor Nelson, with an introduction by Soul2Soul's Jazzie B.\n\nThe book details the history of black music, which has been a part of London's musical landscape since World War I. Following Commonwealth immigration to the United Kingdom, the sounds and styles of black music became the foundation of the city's youth culture. The book tells the story of music and the characters making it from \"Soho jazz clubs to Brixton blues parties to King's Cross warehouse raves to the streets of Notting Hill\".\n\nIn \"The Independent\" the book is praised as \"not just a fine anthology but also social history\" and described as \"exceptional\" while in the \"New Statesman\" the work was described by Bim Adewunmi as \"captivating and well crafted\".\nIn \"The Guardian\" Sukhdev Sandhu criticised the book for missing some subjects, however praised it as \"major achievement nonetheless\", while Karl Dallas wrote in \"The Morning Star\" that the work was \"meticulously researched and illustrated' and an \"authentic account of black music's capital origins\".\nBBC Radio 4 named \"Sounds Like London\" a \"Book of the Week\" (13–17 August 2013).\n\n"}
{"id": "83841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=83841", "title": "Teen magazine", "text": "Teen magazine\n\nTeen magazines are magazines aimed at teenage readers. They usually consist of gossip, news, fashion tips and interviews and may include posters, stickers, small samples of cosmetics or other products and inserts.\n\nThe teen magazine industry is overwhelmingly female-oriented. Several publications, such as \"Teen Ink\" and \"Teen Voices\", cater to both male and female audiences, although publications specifically targeting teenage boys are rare. Many scholars have critiqued teen magazines, as the topics presented are narrow and only present a limited range of female roles, some believe that they are effective because of the relationship developed between magazine and reader. There is a distinct feminine space that is made by the text itself as editors of teen magazines focus on making the content of their text appropriate to the analytical ability of their readers.\n\nAlong with most mainstream magazines, teen magazines are typically sold in print at supermarkets, pharmacies, bookstores and newsstands.\n\nTeen magazines first gained prominence in the United States during the 1940s, with \"Seventeen\" magazine being the first known publication geared towards a demographic of teenage girls. Examples of popular magazines during that time include \"Sassy\", \"YM\", \"CosmoGirl\", \"Teen\", and \"Teen People\". Nowadays, popular contemporary American teen magazines include \"Seventeen\", \"Teen Vogue\", \"J-14\", and \"Tiger Beat\".\n\nTeen magazines are produced in many countries worldwide, and are widely popular in Australia, Latin America, Europe, and Asia. In the United Kingdom, Fleetway's \"Honey\" (1960–1986) is regarded as having established the sector. Large-scale Canadian teen magazines include the \"Faze\" magazine.\n\nSince 1972, teen magazines in the United States have reached out to the African-American market with publications such as \"Right On!\" (produced by Sterling-McFadden, which also produces \"Tiger Beat\") and \"Word Up!\".\n\nIn the United Kingdom, changes in the way teenagers spend their money (and the fact that there were fewer of them, though they had more cash) led to many casualties in the 1990s because titles were unable to compete with mobile, digital and online media. Magazine publishers have moved down the age range with publications for \"tweenagers\" (those aged 9 to 13) gaining popularity, such as \"It's Hot\", \"BOP\", \"J-14\" and \"Tiger Beat.\"\n\nAlthough in the United States, adolescence is generally considered to be the period between the ages 11 and 19, and teen magazines usually cater to people within that range, many readers comprise an even wider age range. According to a 2006 report by Magazine Publishers of America, 78% of teens read magazines. Of the media that adolescents refer to for information about sex, teen magazines are particularly important because they influence knowledge, attitudes, and values about sex and sexuality, especially for teenage girls.\n\nAccording to Amy S. Pattee, author of \"The Developmental Appropriateness of Teen Magazines\", the experience of reading teen magazines can result in heavy psychological impacts on their readers. The covers and content of the latest teen magazines promise adolescent girls dates, beauty, and success. Compared to the rich superstar singer, and the skinniest model shown and praised in the magazine, the reader is most likely to be left with a negative self-image and a heavy desire to aspire to be just like the women they read about.\n\nTeen magazines tend to be categorised as lifestyle (e.g. \"Sugar\"), entertainment (often based on music), or comics.\n\nWhile some teen magazines focus almost exclusively on music and film stars, others feature more extensive coverage of lifestyle issues and are virtually junior versions of magazines such as \"Cosmopolitan\" or \"Cleo\". \"Cosmopolitan\" is more focused on readers between the ages of 18-25, whereas \"Seventeen\" and \"Teen Vogue\" are geared towards teenagers and focus more on the bubbly teen gossip, celebrity culture, and newly stated trends on fashion and beauty.\n\nIn recent years, rapid technological advancement and the rise of the Internet has led to the emergence of online teen magazines. Examples include \"Faze\" in Canada, which is published in both web and print versions, and \"Rookie,\" an independently run online magazine and book series founded in 2011 by Editor-in-Chief Tavi Gevinson, which publishes writing, photography, and other forms of artwork by and for teenagers. With a digital format, the accessibility of teen magazines has also greatly increased, reaching readers from a diverse range of backgrounds and nationalities.\n\nIn the UK, sales in the teen magazine sector peaked in 1998. Teenagers had many more attractions competing for their cash and their attention, such as media delivered on the web and through mobile phones. Also, the booming celebrity weeklies attracted more teens from ever-younger ages (driven by celebrity TV series). In response to this, in April 2007, National Magazines - publisher of \"Cosmopolitan\" and \"Cosmo Girl!\" - launched a digital weekly magazine for teens, \"Jellyfish\", in a trial. This was the second attempt in the UK to establish a new online business model, the first being \"Monkey\" from Dennis, which aims to sell to men aged 18 to 34. In both cases, readers sign up to be sent the 'eMag' by email. Each issue features interactive elements and 'pages' that can be 'turned'. However, National Magazines closed \"Cosmo Girl!\" in June and the \"Jellyfish\" experiment was drawn to a close in August.\n\nThe experience of reading teen magazines can result in heavy psychological impacts on their readers. The covers and content of the latest teen magazines promise adolescent girls dates, beauty, and success As teen magazines are full of images of society's definition of physical perfection, compared to the rich superstar singer, and the skinniest model shown and praised in the magazine, the reader is left with a negative self-image and a heavy desire to aspire to be just like the women they read about.\n\nTeen magazines overtly suggest through content and pictures, how women should look, dress, and act; they more subtly suggest, through exclusion of pictures and content what women should not do, be, or think. The teen magazine, with its images of corporeal perfection and promises of social success, can be seen as evidence of a social ideal to which developing teens may aspire when reading the magazine. Self-development is influenced by an individual's alignment with a social group. Such identification may lead an adolescent to form a mirror group, or clique of her own. As teens seek refuge in a socially safe category; teen magazines in particular offer monthly images of social promise.\n\nChildhood is commonly considered to be a time/space of innocence. Research shows that the over sexualisation in teen magazines is believed to be a contributing factor of pushing girls into adolescence prematurely. Premature adolescence has proven to lead to a wide range of issues including body image, eating disorders, sexual violence, and self-esteem. Teen magazines are not only over sexualized, but sexually ambivalent as well—that is, messages about sex and sexuality contradict each other. For example, Carpenter noted that Seventeen magazine offers traditional scenarios of sex by urging teenage girls to refrain from intercourse until love or marriage is present, yet the same magazine simultaneously offers recreational scenarios of sex in which teenage girls are encouraged to explore their sexuality before marriage and with multiple partners.\n\nResearch shows that teen magazines are also having cultural impacts on its readers. Kelley Massoni, author of \"Modeling Work\", considers teen magazines as a possible source for girl's perceptions about the work world, including their own career futures. The labor market in Seventeen-land is heavily skewed towards professional occupations, particularly in the entertainment industry. A close reading of the text reveals four primary messages about the world of work: entertainment careers are a viable and prestigious option, men are the norm as workers, men hold the power, and fashion modeling is the pinnacle of \"women's work\".\n\nThe embarrassing stories column that is popular in most, if not all, teen magazines, is constructed not only to entertain the reader but also to offer behavioral guidance. The texts of these columns, titled, “Say Anything” in \"YM\", “Trauma Rama” in \"Seventeen\", and “Why Me?” in \"Teen\", consist of a collection of embarrassing incidents in the magazine readers’ lives. Readers are encouraged to write to the magazine's editors with their own tales, which, if published, are rated by the magazine staff. These ratings imply an mutual empathy and personal interaction between the author of the story and the reader. When reading of a fellow teen's traumatic experience involving a leaking maxi-pad and a light-colored dress or the humiliation involved in passing loud gas during a silent chemistry test, it does seem as if no barriers exist between the personal and the publishable. These texts included in teen magazines are socially instructive. Clearly, teenaged girls caught “out of control” (making out with a partner, showing off to attract attention, applying makeup with a heavy or an uneducated hand) risk embarrassment and social alienation. The teenage reader, made aware of the risks of certain behaviors in certain scenarios can, by studying these columns, develops a certain understanding of societal rules.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3140842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3140842", "title": "The Knickerbocker", "text": "The Knickerbocker\n\nThe Knickerbocker, or New-York Monthly Magazine, was a literary magazine of New York City, founded by Charles Fenno Hoffman in 1833, and published until 1865. Its long-term editor and publisher was Lewis Gaylord Clark, whose \"Editor's Table\" column was a staple of the magazine.\n\nThe circle of writers who contributed to the magazine and populated its cultural milieu are often known as the \"Knickerbocker writers\" or the \"Knickerbocker Group\". The group included such authors as William Cullen Bryant, Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, Oliver Wendell Holmes, James Russell Lowell and many others.\n\n\"The Knickerbocker\" was devoted to the fine arts in particular with occasional news, editorials and a few full-length biographical sketches. The magazine was one of the earliest literary vehicles for communication about the United States' \"vanishing wilderness.\" As such, \"The Knickerbocker\" may be considered one of the earliest proto-environmental magazines in the United States.\n\nCharles Fenno Hoffman was the founding editor of \"The Knickerbocker\" in 1833, though he helmed only three issues. Hoffman turned the magazine over to Timothy Flint, who changed the original name \"The Knickerbacker\" to \"The Knickerbocker.\" Flint then sold the magazine to Lewis Gaylord Clark, who bought it in April 1834 and served as editor until 1861. By 1840, \"The Knickerbocker\" was the most influential literary publication of its time. The year before, Washington Irving had reluctantly joined the staff at a salary of $2,000 a year and would stay on staff until 1841. Irving disliked magazine work, specifically because of its monthly deadlines and space constraints. However, in his \"Geoffrey Crayon\" persona, he justified his choice in his debut issue: \"I am tired... of writing volumes... there is too much preparation, arrangement, and parade... I have thought, therefore, of securing to myself a snug corner in some periodical work, where I might, as it were, loll at my ease in my elbow chair.\"\n\nThe circle of writers who contributed to the magazine and populated its cultural milieu are often known as the \"Knickerbocker writers\" or the \"Knickerbocker Group\". The group included such authors as Washington Irving, William Cullen Bryant, James Kirke Paulding, Gulian Crommelin Verplanck, Fitz-Greene Halleck, Joseph Rodman Drake, Robert Charles Sands, Lydia M. Child, Nathaniel Parker Willis, and Epes Sargent. Other writers associated with the group include Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, Oliver Wendell Holmes, James Russell Lowell, Bayard Taylor, George William Curtis, Richard Henry Stoddard, Elizabeth Clementine Stedman, John Greenleaf Whittier, Horace Greeley, James Fenimore Cooper, Fitz Hugh Ludlow and Frederick Swartwout Cozzens. \"The Knickerbocker\" was one of the earliest publications of its type to pay its contributing writers.\n\nThe magazine was published under various titles, including:\n\nAt the time, \"Knickerbocker\" was a term for Manhattan's aristocracy.\n\nKnickerbocker was also an imaginary personage created by Washington Irving to promote his new book at the time, \"A History of New-York from the Beginning of the World to the End of the Dutch Dynasty.\" The work was a satire of both history books and the politics of the time. Irving published the work in 1809 under the pseudonym \"Diedrich Knickerbocker.\" Prior to the release of his book though, Irving placed a series of missing person adverts in New York newspapers concerning Diedrich Knickerbocker, convincing the public that he was a legitimate historian. However, though people soon realized it was a hoax, Diedrich Knickerbocker became a much-loved character and legend for those of the city of New York. He is also the namesake of the New York basketball team, The Knicks.\n\n\"Knickerbacker Magazine\" was started in January 1833 with its first issue containing a supposed conversation with Diedrich Knickerbocker. In the interview he “readily forgave the liberty taken with his name in consideration of our having restored it to its ancient spelling.” This refers to the change from \"Knickerbocker\" to \"Knickerbacker\". However, the second issue was published with the title changed to \"Knickerbocker\" including another conversation with Diedrich Knickerbocker in which he says \"I wish thee to restore my name to its original spelling as it stands in my celebrated History; so as fortune has given immortal glory to what some would consider a discreditable mistake I will even take it as it came and add the 'O' to the end of time.\"\n\n\"The Knickerbocker\" was devoted to the fine arts in particular with occasional news and editorials. Full-length biographical sketches were also printed on such artists as Gilbert Stuart, Hiram Powers, Horatio Greenough, and Frederick Styles Agate.\n\nAccording to environmental historian, Roderick Nash, \"The Knickerbocker\" was one of the earliest literary vehicles for communication about the United States' \"vanishing wilderness\", including serialized articles by Thomas Cole and Francis Parkman, Jr. As such, \"The Knickerbocker\" may be considered one of the earliest proto-environmental magazines in the United States.\n\"The Knickerbocker\" printed the earliest-known reference to the joke \"Why did the chicken cross the road?\"\n\nIn the early 1800s, the Reverend Edward Hitchcock came across a set of what appeared to him to be giant bird tracks. These later turned out to be reptile tracks, however they nonetheless inspired him to write a poem entitled \"The Sandstone Bird\" involving the reanimation of a great sandstone bird by a female mystic. Later published in \"The Knickerbocker\" by Hitchcock, under the pseudonym Poetaster, this is widely believed to have been the first ichnological poem.\n\nEric Kaufman, a professor of politics commented in his paper on \"American Naturalistic Nationalism\" that the \"naturalistic aesthetic first took root among writers in New England and New York. These intellectuals, connected by New York literary periodicals like \"Knickerbocker Magazine\" ... responded in several ways to the new naturalistic sensibility\" the influence of which can be seen in many of their published works.\n\nSome famous works first published in \"The Knickerbocker\" that have influenced environmental thought include:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40587124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40587124", "title": "The Long War (novel)", "text": "The Long War (novel)\n\nThe Long War is a science fiction novel by British writers Terry Pratchett and Stephen Baxter. It is a sequel to their parallel-Earth novel \"The Long Earth\". This book is the second in a five-book series.\n\nA generation after the events of The Long Earth, mankind has spread across the new worlds opened up by Stepping. Where Joshua and Lobsang once pioneered, now fleets of airships link the stepwise Americas with trade and culture. Mankind is shaping the Long Earth—but in turn the Long Earth is shaping mankind. A new \"America\", called Valhalla, is emerging more than a million steps from Datum Earth, with core American values restated in the plentiful environment of the Long Earth, using \"combing\", slang for hunting-gathering to support their economy —and Valhalla is growing restless under the control of the Datum government.\n\nMeanwhile, the Long Earth is suffused by the song of the trolls, graceful hive-mind humanoids. But the trolls are beginning to react to humanity's thoughtless exploitation. Joshua, now married to Helen, is summoned by Lobsang to deal with gathering multiple crises that threaten to plunge the Long Earth into a war unlike any humankind has waged before.\n\nWhen Sally turns up unexpected to Joshua's home—now in Hell-Knows-Where, a small town on Earth West 1,397,426 where he has been elected Mayor—Joshua is forced to return with his family, wife Helen and son Dan, to Datum Earth to investigate and defuse the growing tensions between humans and trolls. Soon after their arrival, Sally dashes off to Earth West two million, the enigmatic \"Gap\" world existing without an earth, with Ex-Lieutenant Jansson (now stricken with leukaemia from her efforts with the Madison bombing and nuclear fallout) to aid Mary the troll and her son from possible execution.\n\nJoshua eventually follows with the help of Bill and another Lobsang, skipping across earths in a new Twain to find Sally, Jansson and the lost trolls. Upon arriving, Joshua is detained using a device to stop a stepper stepping (a contraption that would trigger if he stepped) by a race of highly evolved dogs called \"Beagles\" who force Sally and Jansson, with the help of a kobold, to retrieve weapons from a cache on another world left by a long-dead race.\n\nNelson, a new character to the series groomed by the Black Corporation and Lobsang, seeks out Lobsang and embarks on a mission West. Upon finding Joshua (still imprisoned on the Beagle world), Lobsang makes a speech and successfully implores the trolls to return to their natural place throughout the long earth, now co-habitating with humans.\n\nWhen Sally and Jansson return with the weapons, the Beagles \"honour\" Joshua by hunting him—with the intent of providing him with a glorious death. Two of the Beagles come to the understanding that humans and human wishes are different, bite off Joshua's hand and return it to the GrandDaughter (the Beagle Princess) as proof of his \"death\".\n\nUS Navy Twain Captain Maggie Kauffman is sent by the US President to reinforce the need to have an overarching government presiding over the US continents throughout the long earth. Upon reaching the destination of their mission, Valhalla, they find the war is already over.\n\nJoshua, now safely home, refuses a Black Corporation prosthetic hand in favour of a clunky mechanical one—keeping once more from Lobsang's reach.\n\nOnce everyone has returned to the Datum (or close by), Yellowstone erupts on Datum, causing most of America to flee stepwise.\n\n\nA third Long Earth book, originally entitled \"The Long Childhood\", but changed to \"The Long Mars\", was published on 19 June 2014.\n"}
{"id": "54437187", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54437187", "title": "Thomas Brigg &amp; Sons", "text": "Thomas Brigg &amp; Sons\n\nThomas Brigg & Sons, said to have been founded in 1836, were makers of umbrellas and canes in London. They merged with the London firm of Swaine & Adeney to form Swaine, Adeney, Brigg & Sons Ltd in 1943.\n\nAn insurance record from 1809 provides early evidence that Charles Brigg, a plumassier or feather-maker, was working as a maker and supplier of plumes for the military at 3 Little Warwick Street (now Warwick House Street) off Charing Cross. An advertisement in the \"Morning Chronicle\" indicates that by 5 December 1817 he had moved to 63 Charing Cross, where he would work to the end of his career.\n\nIn 1828, Charles Brigg's son, Thomas Edward, opened a separate outlet at 23 St James's Street, London. An advertisement in the \"Morning Post\" of 21 May 1828 shows that he had added the sale and repair of parasols to his line of business. He was ordered before the Bankruptcy Commissioners in 1829 but it appears that the creditors were placated, for he and his father were able to carry on trading.\n\nThe year 1836, said to be that of the firm's foundation, does not seem to have been characterized by a landmark event according to known documentary evidence of the company. However, that very year, John Tallis published a pictorial plan of St James's Street on which No. 23 was labelled \"Brigg – Umbrella, Cane & Whip Maker\".\n\nBy 1852 the firm was trading as Thomas Brigg & Son, reflecting the fact that Thomas's son Edward had joined the family business. When Edward's brother (another Thomas) went into partnership with him, the firm began trading as Thomas Brigg & Sons. The 1861 census listed Thomas Brigg as an umbrella-maker with five employees.\n\nIn 1879, the silversmith Charles Henry Dumenil (1853–1921) registered his mark CD at the Goldsmiths' Company. In 1894, jointly with William Henry Brigg, he patented \"Improvements in the Combination of Pencils and the like with Walking Sticks and the like\". One such walking stick (in full-bark Malacca) with concealed pencil was owned by the artist Augustus John.\n\nThe 1881 census listed Thomas Brigg Jr with fifteen employees.\n\nIn December 1884, Thomas Brigg & Sons were awarded their first royal warrant as umbrella-makers to Queen Victoria.\n\nin 1899, the firm entered the continental market by opening a showroom at 33 avenue de l'Opéra, Paris, a splendid corner site at the junction with the rue Neuve-des-Petits-Champs (since 1944, the rue Danielle-Casanova) in the 1st arrondissement. This shop brought more royal patrons, among them the King and Queen of Spain. By 1914 there were approved retail outlets for Brigg umbrellas in Barcelona, Berlin, Biarritz, Brussels, Buenos Aires, Florence, Madrid, Naples, Nice, Palermo, Rome and Vienna. In 1919, the firm bought the goodwill and stock of the French parasol makers Bétaille on the rue Royale, Paris.\n\nIn his memoirs the cubist painter Amédée Ozenfant told of his proud but short-lived ownership of a Brigg umbrella, for which he had paid the astonishing price of 35 francs as a young man, only to lose it the next day in the métro.\n\nIn 1931, Bertie and Guy Brigg turned the business into a limited company, and five years later, to mark the firm's supposed foundation in 1836, brought out the ultra-slim \"Centenary\" umbrella.\n\nOne Brigg umbrella was to achieve world fame. This was Neville Chamberlain's gentleman's black-silk umbrella with Mallaca cane handle spliced onto a Tonkin cane shaft with a gilt collar that he took with him to Munich for talks with Adolf Hitler in September 1938 and to Rome in January 1939 for his visit to Benito Mussolini. Newspapers came to see this umbrella as a symbol of hope. By July 1939, \"Life\" magazine was talking about the \"umbrella of appeasement\". Hitler, resentful of those who attended the Munich conference, poured scorn on what he called \"umbrella politicians\". It was a sad irony that war should break out only months after Chamberlain had tried to avert it and that soon afterwards, in 1940, the firm of Thomas Brigg & Sons should lose its Paris showroom to the German occupation of France.\n\nIn February 1943, the firm joined forces with Swaine & Adeney to become Swaine, Adeney, Brigg & Sons Ltd, the merger overseen by Bertie Brigg. Brigg's gave up its shop on St James's Street but kept its manufactory for sticks and umbrellas at Newbury Street in the City of London.\n\nFrom relatively early on, Brigg chose to go down the route of individualized umbrella production, buying in the frame components from Fox Umbrella Frames Ltd, but using its own shafts, handles, ferrules, sliders and rib tips, not to mention covers. The firm was quick to complement its umbrella range with high-quality walking sticks.\n\nFor day wear walking sticks were lightweight and in wood, bamboo or cane with handles ranging from the discreet to the frivolous, with animal heads being popular. The style and workmanship of some handles suggest that the Czilinsky family of ivory and wood carvers may well have taken commissions from Brigg as it did from Swaine & Adeney.\n\nFor evening wear sticks might be of ebonized hardwoods or of exotic material such as tortoiseshell, while the knops might be in gold, crystal or set with jewels. Luxury handles for sticks were commissioned from silversmiths, wood and ivory carvers and turners. Brigg joined in the late Victorian and Edwardian craze for what are now known as gadget or system canes and umbrellas, with concealed pencils, atomizers and other trickery. The silversmith Charles Henry Dumenil was a leading exponent of such gadgetry as well as being a major supplier of mounts to the firm. Among other silversmiths providing mounts were Charles Cooke of Frith Street, Soho, James Damant of City Road and Thomas Johnson.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36912495", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36912495", "title": "Tonada", "text": "Tonada\n\nThe tonada is a folk music style of Spain and some countries of Hispanic America (mainly Argentina, Chile, Peru, Bolivia and Venezuela). In nowadays Spain, the traditional sung piece known as \"tonada\" is considered as having been originated in Asturias and Cantabria, although \"tonada\" (from \"tone\") is a Spanish word which can mean anything sung, played or danced, musicological usage in Spanish and English is more specific.\n\nThe baroque tonada is distinct from the tono humano or tonado, secular song, a main genre of 17th-century Spanish and Portuguese music. Examples of the baroque tonada are found in the Codex Martínez Compañón.\n\nThe Argentine form of the tonada originates from Cuyo Region and is usually played by guitar group.\n\nThe modern rural Chilean folk \"tonada\" is typically a simple \"monotonous\" slow-moving song with a melancholy theme.\n\nIn Venezuela the \"tonada\" tend to be presented as work songs that accompany various tasks such as milking, farming, herding, hunting, fishing, threshing, grinding corn, harvesting and rest of rural man. These songs, in addition to constituting a labor rite, symbolize the spirit of coexistence among those who perform common tasks.\n\nAccording to the Venezuelan musician, composer and musicologist Luis Felipe Ramón y Rivera, the tonadas are utilitarian songs that are characterized by their monodic system, in which harmony is clearly established by long notes of six, eight or more moderate times. that enclose the cadences.\n\nThese songs are measurable and interspersed cries and jipíos according to the need of the work, depending on the milking or the drive. As for the scales to which these melodies are adjusted, they vary among themselves, according to the type of regional music. Thus, a song of the Táchira state to harvest coffee differs a lot from a llanero ridge for the drive. But, in general, all show an old character.\n\nThe deceased Venezuelan singer-songwriter and musician Simón Díaz was the greatest exponent of this genre, who rescued and made known during his recording career.\n"}
{"id": "653401", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=653401", "title": "Transgressive art", "text": "Transgressive art\n\nTransgressive art is art that aims to transgress; i.e. to outrage or violate basic morals and sensibilities. The term \"transgressive\" was first used in this sense by American filmmaker Nick Zedd and his Cinema of Transgression in 1985. Zedd used it to describe his legacy with underground film-makers like Paul Morrissey, John Waters, and Kenneth Anger, and the relationship they shared with Zedd and his New York City peers in the early 1980s.\n\nFrom an academic perspective, many traces of transgression can be found in any art which by some is considered offensive because of its shock value; from the French Salon des Refusés artists to Dada and Surrealism. Philosophers Mikhail Bakhtin and Georges Bataille have published works on the nature of transgression. Probably the most thorough book on the early transgressive movement is \"Deathtripping: The Cinema of Transgression\" by Jack Sargeant.\n\nTransgressional works share some themes with art that deals with psychological dislocation and mental illness. Examples of this relationship, between social transgression and the exploration of mental states relating to illness, include many of the activities and works of the Dadaists, Surrealists, and Fluxus-related artists, such as Carolee Schneemann – and, in literature, Albert Camus's \"L'Etranger\" or J.D. Salinger's \"The Catcher in the Rye\".\n\nThe movement itself wishes to wear thin the border between the profane and the sacrosanct, and to test mores and values through subjecting glory to the inverse of cultural norms. Transgressive art often reflects an undercurrent of violence within the time it is produced.\n\nSince the late 1990s a new group of transgressive artists have emerged, such as the Canadian artist Rick Gibson who made a pair of earrings out of human fetuses and ate a piece of human testicle. In China several artists became well known for producing transgressive art; including Zhu Yu, who achieved notoriety when he published images of himself eating what appeared to be a human fetus; and Yang Zhichao for extreme body art.\n\nPerhaps the most famous transgressive artist of the early 1980s, Richard Kern began making films in New York with infamous underground actors Nick Zedd and Lung Leg. Some of them were videos for musical artists including those for the Butthole Surfers and Sonic Youth.\n\nSubsequent transgressive artists of the 1990s overlapped the boundaries of literature, art, and music, most famously GG Allin, Lisa Crystal Carver, Shane Bugbee, and Costes. With these artists came a greater emphasis on life itself (or death) as art, rather than just depicting a certain mindset in film or music. They were instrumental in creating a new type of visionary art and music, and influenced artists including Alec Empire, Cock E.S.P., Crash Worship, Usama Alshaibi, Natural Athlete, Liz Armstrong, Lennie Lee, Weasel Walter, Andy Ortmann, and the later work featured in Peter Bagge's comic \"Hate\".\n\nNewer transgressive artists of the 2010s such as Nickk Dropkick, Joan Cornellà, Aleksandra Waliszewska, and Molg H seem to have brought about a revival of transgressive art in recent years, with some small measure of popularity.\n\nHowever, the term can also be applied to transgressive literature as well. Recent examples include \"Trainspotting\" by Irvine Welsh, \"Blood and Guts in High School\" by Kathy Acker, \"American Psycho\" by Bret Easton Ellis, \"Fight Club\" by Chuck Palahniuk, and J.G. Ballard's short story \"The Enormous Space\". These works deal with issues that were considered to be outside the social norms. Their characters abuse drugs, engage in violent behaviour or could be considered sexual deviants. Trangressive writing can also be reflected in non-fiction, such as the writing style of Jim Goad.\n\nAmong the most notorious works of transgressive art among the general public have been sculpture, collages, and installation art which offended Christian religious sensibilities. These include Andres Serrano's \"Piss Christ\", featuring a crucifix in a beaker of urine, and Chris Ofili's \"The Holy Virgin Mary\", a multi-media painting which is partially made of elephant dung.\n\nRock and roll music has inspired controversy for the entirety of its existence. As the music grew in popularity, some artists used controversy to make a statement or turn it to their advantage. For musical genres such as shock rock, punk rock, horrorcore and its parent genres hardcore hip hop and gangsta rap; grindcore, black metal and death metal, as well as various bands within the avant-garde rock genre, offending modern sensibilities was an integral part of their music. Musicians such as Alice Cooper, Slayer, Kiss, N.W.A, Iggy Pop, Misfits, W.A.S.P., GWAR, GG Allin, The Plasmatics, Cannibal Corpse, Tyler, The Creator, Throbbing Gristle, Marilyn Manson, Die Antwoord, Costes, The Mentors, Anal Cunt, The Sex Pistols, The Meatmen, Brotha Lynch Hung and the Dead Kennedys used anti-Christian, anti-establishment, satirical lyrics that were generally considered to be evil by those who did not understand them. Some bands used the controversy to increase their popularity. The idea was, if people complained about their music enough and truly hated them, then the band's name and knowledge of their existence would reach the ears of people who would appreciate their music.\n\n\n"}
