{"id": "55498490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55498490", "title": "Ab Imperio", "text": "Ab Imperio\n\nAb Imperio: Studies of New Imperial History and Nationalism in the Post-Soviet Space – international scientific referable journal, which developing direction “New Imperial History”, devoted to the interdisciplinary and comparative study of the history of nationalism, national movements in the post-Soviet space.\n\nThe magazine adheres to an interdisciplinary editorial policy with an emphasis on history, sociology, anthropology and political science. Each issue corresponds to a strict structure. Among the permanent headings: \"Methodology and Theory\", \"History\", \"Archive\", \"Sociology, Political Science, Ethnology\", \"ABC: Studies of Empire and Nationalism\", \"Newest Mythologies\", \"Historiography\", \"Reviews\".\n\nIt is published in Russian and English (the articles are accepted in five languages: Russian, English, German, French and Ukrainian), conducts an anonymous review of articles before publication.\n\nThe magazine acts as the initiator of conferences (corresponding to the annual topics of the issues) and research projects. In the course of the work, was proposed the research program of the New Imperial History, which combines the studies of empire and nationalism, as well as studies of Western colonialism and dynastic territorially extended empires. The magazine is an associate member of the American Association for the Advancement of Slavic Studies, also included in the List of Scientific Journals of the Higher Attestation Commission, is indexed at RINC, ISI and Scopus.\n\nThe magazine was founded in 1999, its’ first publication was done in June 2000 in Kazan. The idea to publish the magazine belonged to Alla Zeid, the name was suggested by Sergei Glebov. Since 2002, the articles in the magazine correspond to a pre-approved annual thematic.\n\nIn an interview with Logos Magazine Marina Mogilner and Sergei Glebov say that the preconditions for the appearance of the magazine were the lack of such quarterly scientific periodicals and the desire to study the history of the post-Soviet space through the prism of nationalism studies.\"The idea of a new professional historical journal arose in 1998, when it became finally clear that the main Russian historical journals -\" Вопросы истории\"and \"Отечественная история \"- could not be reformed.\"In the autumn of 1999, the owner of the humanitarian holding Irina Prokhorova offered a franchise project in New York: the New Historical Review (NIO) magazine, built on principles similar to the one that later formed the basis for Ab Imperio, an international quarterly, thematic numbers, etc. .).\n\nThe proposal was accepted subject to the location of the editorial office in Moscow, under the direct control of the New Literature Review. This condition did not suit the future editors, and the project did not take place.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28428537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28428537", "title": "Absolute construction", "text": "Absolute construction\n\nIn linguistics, an absolute construction is a grammatical construction standing apart from a normal or usual syntactical relation with other words or sentence elements. It can be a non-finite clause that is subordinate in form and modifies an entire sentence, an adjective or possessive pronoun standing alone without a modified substantive, or a transitive verb when its object is implied but not stated. The term \"absolute\" derives from Latin \"absolūtum\", meaning \"loosened from\" or \"separated\".\n\nBecause the non-finite clause, called the absolute clause (or simply the absolute), is not semantically attached to any single element in the sentence, it is easily confused with a dangling participle. The difference is that the participial phrase of a dangling participle is intended to modify a particular noun, but is instead erroneously attached to a different noun, whereas a participial phrase serving as an absolute clause is not intended to modify any noun at all.\n\nWhile the absolute construction is not particularly common in modern English and is generally more often seen in writing than in speech, it may be spoken as one of several fixed expressions:\n\nAbsolute clauses appear in Latin with the modifying participle in the ablative case; for this reason they are referred to as ablative absolutes. An ablative absolute describes some general circumstance under which the action of a sentence occurs. When translated into English, ablative absolutes are often translated as \"with [noun] [participle]\":\n\nAbsolute constructions occur with other grammatical cases in Indo-European languages, such as accusative absolute in Greek, German and Latin, genitive absolute in Greek, dative absolute in Gothic and Old Church Slavonic, and locative absolute in Sanskrit.\n\n"}
{"id": "53758230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53758230", "title": "Access to public information in Ukraine", "text": "Access to public information in Ukraine\n\nAccess to public information and freedom of information (FOI) refer to the right of access to information held by public bodies also known as \"right to know\". Access to public information is considered of fundamental importance for the effective functioning of democratic systems, as it enhances governments' and public officials' accountability, boosting people participation and allowing their informed participation into public life. The fundamental premise of the right of access to public information is that the information held by governmental institutions is in principle public and may be concealed only on the basis of legitimate reasons which should be detailed in the law.\n\nOn 13 January 2011, the \"Verkhovna Rada\" (the Parliament of Ukraine) adopted two laws on access to information: The Law of Ukraine “On Access to Public Information” and the new wording of the Law of Ukraine “On Information” (1992). They entered into force on May 9, 2011.\n\nThe Art. 5 of the Law of Ukraine \"On Information\" provides the «right for information» which includes the possibility of free collection, usage, distribution, storage and protection of information necessary for the exercise of person’s rights, freedoms and legitimate interests.\n\nBoth of the laws were criticized in 2012 by the London-based association advocating for free expression Article 19, which considered that they lack provisions to ensure that the rights to privacy and freedom of expression and information are appropriately balanced.\n\nOn April 9, 2015, the Ukrainian Parliament approved a law to encourage government agencies to release and provide more information from the country’s archive of Soviet-era KGB files. The information would be transferred to the Institute of National Remembrance and be declassified. Moreover, the same law encourages to publish free operational data, statistics and reports on government websites and on the national open data web platform.\n\nOn March 27, 2014, the Parliament of Ukraine passed the draft law No. 0947. According to experts, it makes a variety of improvements related to access to information. Among other things, fines are added for ungrounded refusals to disclose information, for an untimely or incomplete provision of information, or the provision of false information.\n\nAccording to the Independent Reporting Mechanism (IRM) of the Open Government Partnership (OPG) organization published in 2016, Ukraine’s progress for improving access to information, corruption prevention mechanisms, and bringing citizens in government decision making is “truly impressive”- especially considering the difficult political situation. However, according to the IRM, the country fell short in delivering on promises made to improve government accountability and fight corruption. In particular, according to an expert, Ukraine needs to further open public contracting, including in publicly owned enterprises, and to bring more transparency to natural resource extraction. According to IRM, also, in its next OPG National Plan, Ukraine should provide for among its commitments for a system of electronic disclosure so that public officials’ assets are verifiable.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1645085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1645085", "title": "Adai language", "text": "Adai language\n\nAdai (also Adaizan, Adaizi, Adaise, Adahi, Adaes, Adees, Atayos) is an extinct Native American language that was spoken in northwestern Louisiana.\n\nIt is very poorly documented, being known only from a list of 275 words from 1804, so classification is probably impossible. It was once proposed that there may be a connection between Adai and the nearby Caddoan languages, but this now seems unlikely.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1821883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1821883", "title": "American Antiquarian Society", "text": "American Antiquarian Society\n\nThe American Antiquarian Society (AAS), located in Worcester, Massachusetts, is both a learned society and national research library of pre-twentieth century American history and culture. Founded in 1812, it is the oldest historical society in the United States with a national focus. Its main building, known as Antiquarian Hall, is a U.S. National Historic Landmark in recognition of this legacy. The mission of the AAS is to collect, preserve and make available for study all printed records of what is now known as the United States of America. This includes materials from the first European settlement through the year 1876.\n\nThe AAS offers programs for professional scholars, pre-collegiate, undergraduate and graduate students, educators, professional artists, writers, genealogists, and the general public. AAS has many digital collections available, including \"A New Nation Votes: American Election Returns 1788–1824.\"\n\nThe collections of the AAS contain over three million books, pamphlets, newspapers, periodicals, graphic arts materials and manuscripts. The Society is estimated to hold copies of two-thirds of the total books known to have been printed in what is now the United States from the establishment of the first press in 1640 through the year 1820; many of these volumes are exceedingly rare and a number of them are unique. Historic materials from all fifty U.S. states, most of Canada and the British West Indies are included in the AAS repository. One of the more famous volumes held by the Society is a copy of the very first book printed in America, the Bay Psalm Book. AAS also has one of the largest collections of newspapers printed in America through 1876, with more than two million issues in its collection.\n\nOn the initiative of Isaiah Thomas, the AAS was founded on October 24, 1812, through an act of the Massachusetts General Court. It was the third historical society established in America, and the first to be national in its scope. Isaiah Thomas started the collection with approximately 8,000 books from his personal library. The first library building was erected in 1820 in downtown Worcester, Massachusetts. In 1853, the Society moved its collections to a larger building at the corner of Highland Street, also in Worcester. This building was later abandoned and another new building was constructed. Designed by Winslow, Bigelow & Wadsworth, the Georgian Revival building was completed in 1910 and stands on the corner of Park Avenue and Salisbury Street. There have been several additions to this building to accommodate the growing collection, the most recent of which was completed in 2003. AAS was presented with the 2013 National Humanities Medal by President Obama in a ceremony at the White House.\n\nAs part of AAS's mission as a learned society, it offers a variety of public lectures and seminars. One topic to which AAS dedicates significant academic energies is printing technology, especially in eighteenth-century British North America. Since Isaiah Thomas was a newspaper man himself, he collected a large number of printed materials. With regard to printing, paper making, edition setting, and reprinting, not much had changed in European technology by the eighteenth century. It was not until the late eighteenth century that paper-making material began to evolve from a hand-woven cloth to an industrial pulp. AAS undertakes special efforts to preserve printed records from this time period, as the Society maintains an on-site conservation department with various sewing, cloth, and binding materials to aid in the preservation process.\n\nThe American Antiquarian Society's membership includes scholars, writers, journalists, filmmakers, collectors, and civic leaders. Notable members include the following individuals:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3354", "title": "Berlin", "text": "Berlin\n\nBerlin (; ) is the capital and largest city of Germany by both area and population. Its 3,711,930 (2017) inhabitants make it the second most populous city proper of the European Union after London. The city is one of Germany's 16 federal states, and it is surrounded by the state of Brandenburg, the capital of which, Potsdam, is contiguous with Berlin. The two cities are at the center of the Berlin/Brandenburg Metropolitan Region, which is, with 6,004,857 (2015) inhabitants, Germany's third-largest metropolitan region after the Rhine-Ruhr and Rhine-Main regions. Berlin Tegel airport is the fourth busiest in Germany.\n\nBerlin straddles the banks of the River Spree, which flows into the River Havel (a tributary of the River Elbe) in the western borough of Spandau. Among the city's main topographical features are the many lakes in the western and southeastern boroughs, formed by the Spree, Havel, and Dahme rivers, the largest of which is Lake Müggelsee. Due to its location in the European Plain, Berlin is influenced by a temperate seasonal climate. About one-third of the city's area is composed of forests, parks, gardens, rivers, canals and lakes. The city lies in the Central German dialect area, the Berlin dialect being a variant of the Lusatian-New Marchian dialects.\n\nFirst documented in the 13th century and situated at the crossing of two important historic trade routes, Berlin became the capital of the Margraviate of Brandenburg (14171701), the Kingdom of Prussia (1701–1918), the German Empire (1871–1918), the Weimar Republic (1919–1933), and the Third Reich (1933–1945). Berlin in the 1920s was the third largest municipality in the world. After World War II and its subsequent occupation by the victorious countries, the city was divided; West Berlin became a de facto West German exclave, surrounded by the Berlin Wall (1961–1989) and East German territory. East Berlin was declared capital of East Germany, while Bonn became the West German capital. Following German reunification in 1990, Berlin once again became the capital of all of Germany.\n\nBerlin is a world city of culture, politics, media and science. Its economy is based on high-tech firms and the service sector, encompassing a diverse range of creative industries, research facilities, media corporations and convention venues. Berlin serves as a continental hub for air and rail traffic and has a highly complex public transportation network. The metropolis is a popular tourist destination. Significant industries also include IT, pharmaceuticals, biomedical engineering, clean tech, biotechnology, construction and electronics.\n\nBerlin is home to world-renowned universities, orchestras, museums, and entertainment venues, and is host to many sporting events. Its Zoological Garden is the most visited zoo in Europe and one of the most popular worldwide. With the world's oldest large-scale movie studio complex, Berlin is an increasingly popular location for international film productions. The city is well known for its festivals, diverse architecture, nightlife, contemporary arts and a very high quality of living. Since the 2000s Berlin has seen the emergence of a cosmopolitan entrepreneurial scene.\n\nBerlin lies in northeastern Germany, east of the River (Saxon or Thuringian) Saale, that once constituted, together with the River Elbe (from their confluence onwards), the eastern border of the Frankish Realm. While the Frankish Realm was primarily inhabited by Germanic tribes like the Franks and the Saxons, the regions east of the border rivers were inhabited by Slavic tribes. This is why most of the cities and villages in northeastern Germany bear Slavic-derived names (Germania Slavica). Typical Germanised place name suffixes of Slavic origin are \"-ow\", \"-itz\", \"-vitz\", \"-witz\", \"-itzsch\" and \"-in\", prefixes are \"Windisch\" and \"Wendisch\". The name \"Berlin\" has its roots in the language of West Slavic inhabitants of the area of today's Berlin, and may be related to the Old Polabian stem \"berl-\"/\"birl-\" (\"swamp\"). Since the \"Ber-\" at the beginning sounds like the German word \"Bär\" (bear), a bear appears in the coat of arms of the city. It is therefore a canting arm.\n\nOf Berlin's twelve boroughs, five bear a (partly) Slavic-derived name: Pankow (the most populous), Steglitz-Zehlendorf, Marzahn-Hellersdorf, Treptow-Köpenick and Spandau (named Spandow until 1878). Of its ninety-six neighborhoods, twenty-two bear a (partly) Slavic-derived name: Altglienicke, Alt-Treptow, Britz, Buch, Buckow, Gatow, Karow, Kladow, Köpenick, Lankwitz, Lübars, Malchow, Marzahn, Pankow, Prenzlauer Berg, Rudow, Schmöckwitz, Spandau, Stadtrandsiedlung Malchow, Steglitz, Tegel and Zehlendorf. The neighborhood of Moabit bears a French-derived name, and Französisch Buchholz is named after the Huguenots.\n\nThe earliest evidence of settlements in the area of today's Berlin are a wooden beam dated from approximately 1192, and remnants of a house foundation dated to 1174, found in excavations in Berlin Mitte. The first written records of towns in the area of present-day Berlin date from the late 12th century. Spandau is first mentioned in 1197 and Köpenick in 1209, although these areas did not join Berlin until 1920. The central part of Berlin can be traced back to two towns. Cölln on the Fischerinsel is first mentioned in a 1237 document, and Berlin, across the Spree in what is now called the Nikolaiviertel, is referenced in a document from 1244. 1237 is considered the founding date of the city. The two towns over time formed close economic and social ties, and profited from the staple right on the two important trade routes \"Via Imperii\" and from Bruges to Novgorod. In 1307, they formed an alliance with a common external policy, their internal administrations still being separated.\n\nIn 1415, Frederick I became the elector of the Margraviate of Brandenburg, which he ruled until 1440. During the 15th century, his successors established Berlin-Cölln as capital of the margraviate, and subsequent members of the Hohenzollern family ruled in Berlin until 1918, first as electors of Brandenburg, then as kings of Prussia, and eventually as German emperors. In 1443, Frederick II Irontooth started the construction of a new royal palace in the twin city Berlin-Cölln. The protests of the town citizens against the building culminated in 1448, in the \"Berlin Indignation\" (\"Berliner Unwille\"). This protest was not successful and the citizenry lost many of its political and economic privileges. After the royal palace was finished in 1451, it gradually came into use. From 1470, with the new elector Albrecht III Achilles, Berlin-Cölln became the new royal residence. Officially, the Berlin-Cölln palace became permanent residence of the Brandenburg electors of the Hohenzollerns from 1486, when John Cicero came to power. Berlin-Cölln, however, had to give up its status as a free Hanseatic city. In 1539, the electors and the city officially became Lutheran.\n\nThe Thirty Years' War between 1618 and 1648 devastated Berlin. One third of its houses were damaged or destroyed, and the city lost half of its population. Frederick William, known as the \"Great Elector\", who had succeeded his father George William as ruler in 1640, initiated a policy of promoting immigration and religious tolerance. With the Edict of Potsdam in 1685, Frederick William offered asylum to the French Huguenots. By 1700, approximately 30 percent of Berlin's residents were French, because of the Huguenot immigration. Many other immigrants came from Bohemia, Poland, and Salzburg.\n\nSince 1618, the Margraviate of Brandenburg had been in personal union with the Duchy of Prussia. In 1701, the dual state formed the Kingdom of Prussia, as Frederick III, Elector of Brandenburg, crowned himself as king Frederick I in Prussia. Berlin became the capital of the new Kingdom, replacing Königsberg. This was a successful attempt to centralise the capital in the very far-flung state, and it was the first time the city began to grow. In 1709, Berlin merged with the four cities of Cölln, Friedrichswerder, Friedrichstadt and Dorotheenstadt under the name Berlin, \"Haupt- und Residenzstadt Berlin\".\n\nIn 1740, Frederick II, known as Frederick the Great (1740–1786), came to power. Under the rule of Frederick II, Berlin became a center of the Enlightenment, but also, was briefly occupied during the Seven Years' War by the Russian army. Following France's victory in the War of the Fourth Coalition, Napoleon Bonaparte marched into Berlin in 1806, but granted self-government to the city. In 1815, the city became part of the new Province of Brandenburg.\n\nThe Industrial Revolution transformed Berlin during the 19th century; the city's economy and population expanded dramatically, and it became the main railway hub and economic centre of Germany. Additional suburbs soon developed and increased the area and population of Berlin. In 1861, neighbouring suburbs including Wedding, Moabit and several others were incorporated into Berlin. In 1871, Berlin became capital of the newly founded German Empire. In 1881, it became a city district separate from Brandenburg.\n\nIn the early 20th century, Berlin had become a fertile ground for the German Expressionist movement. In fields such as architecture, painting and cinema new forms of artistic styles were invented. At the end of the First World War in 1918, a republic was proclaimed by Philipp Scheidemann at the Reichstag building. In 1920, the Greater Berlin Act incorporated dozens of suburban cities, villages and estates around Berlin into an expanded city. The act increased the area of Berlin from . The population almost doubled and Berlin had a population of around four million. During the Weimar era, Berlin underwent political unrest due to economic uncertainties, but also became a renowned centre of the Roaring Twenties. The metropolis experienced its heyday as a major world capital and was known for its leadership roles in science, technology, arts, the humanities, city planning, film, higher education, government and industries. Albert Einstein rose to public prominence during his years in Berlin, being awarded the Nobel Prize for Physics in 1921.\n\nIn 1933, Adolf Hitler and the Nazi Party came to power. NSDAP rule diminished Berlin's Jewish community from 160,000 (one-third of all Jews in the country) to about 80,000 as a result of emigration between 1933 and 1939. After Kristallnacht in 1938, thousands of the city's Jews were imprisoned in the nearby Sachsenhausen concentration camp. Starting in early 1943, many were shipped to death camps, such as Auschwitz. Berlin is the most heavily bombed city in history. During World War II, large parts of Berlin were destroyed in the 1943–45 air raids and during the Battle of Berlin. The Allies dropped 67,607 tons of bombs on the city, destroying 6,427 acres of the built up area. Around 125,000 civilians were killed. After the end of the war in Europe in May 1945, Berlin received large numbers of refugees from the Eastern provinces. The victorious powers divided the city into four sectors, analogous to the occupation zones into which Germany was divided. The sectors of the Western Allies (the United States, the United Kingdom and France) formed West Berlin, while the Soviet sector formed East Berlin.\n\nAll four Allies shared administrative responsibilities for Berlin. However, in 1948, when the Western Allies extended the currency reform in the Western zones of Germany to the three western sectors of Berlin, the Soviet Union imposed a blockade on the access routes to and from West Berlin, which lay entirely inside Soviet-controlled territory. The Berlin airlift, conducted by the three western Allies, overcame this blockade by supplying food and other supplies to the city from June 1948 to May 1949. In 1949, the Federal Republic of Germany was founded in West Germany and eventually included all of the American, British and French zones, excluding those three countries' zones in Berlin, while the Marxist-Leninist German Democratic Republic was proclaimed in East Germany. West Berlin officially remained an occupied city, but it politically was aligned with the Federal Republic of Germany despite West Berlin's geographic isolation. Airline service to West Berlin was granted only to American, British and French airlines.\n\nThe founding of the two German states increased Cold War tensions. West Berlin was surrounded by East German territory, and East Germany proclaimed the Eastern part as its capital, a move that was not recognised by the western powers. East Berlin included most of the historic centre of the city. The West German government established itself in Bonn. In 1961, East Germany began the building of the Berlin Wall around West Berlin, and events escalated to a tank standoff at Checkpoint Charlie. West Berlin was now de facto a part of West Germany with a unique legal status, while East Berlin was de facto a part of East Germany. John F. Kennedy gave his \"Ich bin ein Berliner\" speech in 1963, underlining the US support for the Western part of the city. Berlin was completely divided. Although it was possible for Westerners to pass to the other side through strictly controlled checkpoints, for most Easterners travel to West Berlin or West Germany was prohibited by the government of East Germany. In 1971, a Four-Power agreement guaranteed access to and from West Berlin by car or train through East Germany.\n\nIn 1989, with the end of the Cold War and pressure from the East German population, the Berlin Wall fell on 9 November and was subsequently mostly demolished. Today, the East Side Gallery preserves a large portion of the wall. On 3 October 1990, the two parts of Germany were reunified as the Federal Republic of Germany and Berlin again became the official German capital. In 1991, the German Parliament, the Bundestag, voted to move the seat of the German capital from Bonn to Berlin, which was completed in 1999. On 18 June 1994, soldiers from the United States, France and Britain marched in a parade which was part of the ceremonies to mark the final withdrawal of foreign troops allowing a reunified Berlin. Berlin's 2001 administrative reform merged several districts. The number of boroughs was reduced from 23 to 12.\n\nIn 2002, the German parliament voted to allow the reconstruction of the Berlin Palace, which started in 2013 and will be finished in 2019. In 2006, the FIFA World Cup Final was held in Berlin.\n\nIn a 2016 terrorist attack linked to ISIL, a truck was deliberately driven into the Christmas market next to the Kaiser Wilhelm Memorial Church, leaving 12 people dead and 56 others injured.\n\nBerlin is situated in northeastern Germany, in an area of low-lying marshy woodlands with a mainly flat topography, part of the vast Northern European Plain which stretches all the way from northern France to western Russia. The \"Berliner Urstromtal\" (an ice age glacial valley), between the low Barnim Plateau to the north and the Teltow Plateau to the south, was formed by meltwater flowing from ice sheets at the end of the last Weichselian glaciation. The Spree follows this valley now. In Spandau, a borough in the west of Berlin, the Spree empties into the river Havel, which flows from north to south through western Berlin. The course of the Havel is more like a chain of lakes, the largest being the Tegeler See and the Großer Wannsee. A series of lakes also feeds into the upper Spree, which flows through the Großer Müggelsee in eastern Berlin.\n\nSubstantial parts of present-day Berlin extend onto the low plateaus on both sides of the Spree Valley. Large parts of the boroughs Reinickendorf and Pankow lie on the Barnim Plateau, while most of the boroughs of Charlottenburg-Wilmersdorf, Steglitz-Zehlendorf, Tempelhof-Schöneberg, and Neukölln lie on the Teltow Plateau.\n\nThe borough of Spandau lies partly within the Berlin Glacial Valley and partly on the Nauen Plain, which stretches to the west of Berlin. Since 2015, the highest elevation in Berlin is found on the Arkenberge hills in Pankow, at . Through the dumping of construction debris, they surpassed Teufelsberg (), a hill made of rubble from the ruins of the Second World War. The highest natural elevation is found on the Müggelberge at , and the lowest at the Spektesee in Spandau, at .\n\nBerlin has a \"marine west coast\" (Cfb) climate according to the Köppen climate classification system. This type of climate features moderate summer temperatures and mild winters. There are significant continental climate influences due to its inland position, with frosts being common in winter and there being larger temperature differences between seasons than typical for many oceanic climates. Furthermore, Berlin is classified as a temperate continental climate (\"Dc\") under the Trewartha climate scheme.\n\nSummers are warm and sometimes humid with average high temperatures of and lows of . Winters are cool with average high temperatures of and lows of . Spring and autumn are generally chilly to mild. Berlin's built-up area creates a microclimate, with heat stored by the city's buildings and pavement. Temperatures can be higher in the city than in the surrounding areas.\n\nAnnual precipitation is with moderate rainfall throughout the year. Snowfall mainly occurs from December through March.\n\nBerlin's history has left the city with a polycentric organization and a highly eclectic array of architecture and buildings. The city's appearance today is predominantly shaped by the key role it played in Germany's history in the 20th century. Each of the national governments based in Berlin the Kingdom of Prussia, the 1871 German Empire, the Weimar Republic, Nazi Germany, East Germany, and now the reunified Germany initiated ambitious reconstruction programs, with each adding its own distinctive style to the city's architecture.\n\nBerlin was devastated by bombing raids, fires and street battles during World War II, and many of the buildings that had remained after the war were demolished in the post-war period in both West and East Berlin. Much of this demolition was initiated by municipal architecture programs to build new residential or business quarters and main roads. Many ornaments of pre-war buildings were destroyed following modernist dogmas. While in both systems and in reunified Berlin, various important heritage monuments were also (partly) reconstructed, including the \"Forum Fridericianum\" with e.g., the State Opera (1955), Charlottenburg Palace (1957), the main monuments of the Gendarmenmarkt (1980s), Kommandantur (2003) and the project to reconstruct the baroque façades of the City Palace. A number of new buildings are inspired by historical predecessors or the general classical style of Berlin, such as Hotel Adlon.\n\nClusters of high-rise buildings emerge at disperse locations, e.g. Potsdamer Platz, City West, and Alexanderplatz, the latter two representing the previous centers of West and East Berlin, respectively, and the former representing the new Berlin of the 21st century built upon the previous no-man's land of the Berlin Wall. Berlin has three of the top 40 tallest buildings in Germany.\n\nThe Fernsehturm (TV tower) at Alexanderplatz in Mitte is among the tallest structures in the European Union at . Built in 1969, it is visible throughout most of the central districts of Berlin. The city can be viewed from its high observation floor. Starting here the Karl-Marx-Allee heads east, an avenue lined by monumental residential buildings, designed in the Socialist Classicism style. Adjacent to this area is the Rotes Rathaus (City Hall), with its distinctive red-brick architecture. In front of it is the Neptunbrunnen, a fountain featuring a mythological group of Tritons, personifications of the four main Prussian rivers and Neptune on top of it.\n\nThe Brandenburg Gate is an iconic landmark of Berlin and Germany; it stands as a symbol of eventful European history and of unity and peace. The Reichstag building is the traditional seat of the German Parliament. It was remodelled by British architect Norman Foster in the 1990s and features a glass dome over the session area, which allows free public access to the parliamentary proceedings and magnificent views of the city.\n\nThe East Side Gallery is an open-air exhibition of art painted directly on the last existing portions of the Berlin Wall. It is the largest remaining evidence of the city's historical division.\n\nThe Gendarmenmarkt is a neoclassical square in Berlin, the name of which derives from the headquarters of the famous Gens d'armes regiment located here in the 18th century. It is bordered by two similarly designed cathedrals, the Französischer Dom with its observation platform and the Deutscher Dom. The Konzerthaus (Concert Hall), home of the Berlin Symphony Orchestra, stands between the two cathedrals.\n\nThe Museum Island in the River Spree houses five museums built from 1830 to 1930 and is a UNESCO World Heritage site. Restoration and construction of a main entrance to all museums, as well as reconstruction of the Stadtschloss continues. Also located on the island and adjacent to the Lustgarten and palace is Berlin Cathedral, emperor William II's ambitious attempt to create a Protestant counterpart to St. Peter's Basilica in Rome. A large crypt houses the remains of some of the earlier Prussian royal family. St. Hedwig's Cathedral is Berlin's Roman Catholic cathedral.\n\nUnter den Linden is a tree-lined east–west avenue from the Brandenburg Gate to the site of the former Berliner Stadtschloss, and was once Berlin's premier promenade. Many Classical buildings line the street and part of Humboldt University is located there. Friedrichstraße was Berlin's legendary street during the Golden Twenties. It combines 20th-century traditions with the modern architecture of today's Berlin.\nPotsdamer Platz is an entire quarter built from scratch after 1995 after the Wall came down. To the west of Potsdamer Platz is the Kulturforum, which houses the Gemäldegalerie, and is flanked by the Neue Nationalgalerie and the Berliner Philharmonie. The Memorial to the Murdered Jews of Europe, a Holocaust memorial, is situated to the north.\n\nThe area around Hackescher Markt is home to fashionable culture, with countless clothing outlets, clubs, bars, and galleries. This includes the Hackesche Höfe, a conglomeration of buildings around several courtyards, reconstructed around 1996. The nearby New Synagogue is the center of Jewish culture.\n\nThe Straße des 17. Juni, connecting the Brandenburg Gate and Ernst-Reuter-Platz, serves as the central east-west axis. Its name commemorates the uprisings in East Berlin of 17 June 1953. Approximately halfway from the Brandenburg Gate is the Großer Stern, a circular traffic island on which the Siegessäule (Victory Column) is situated. This monument, built to commemorate Prussia's victories, was relocated in 1938–39 from its previous position in front of the Reichstag.\n\nThe Kurfürstendamm is home to some of Berlin's luxurious stores with the Kaiser Wilhelm Memorial Church at its eastern end on Breitscheidplatz. The church was destroyed in the Second World War and left in ruins. Nearby on Tauentzienstraße is KaDeWe, claimed to be continental Europe's largest department store. The Rathaus Schöneberg, where John F. Kennedy made his famous \"Ich bin ein Berliner!\" speech, is situated in Tempelhof-Schöneberg.\n\nWest of the center, Bellevue Palace is the residence of the German President. Charlottenburg Palace, which was burnt out in the Second World War, is the largest historical palace in Berlin.\n\nThe Funkturm Berlin is a tall lattice radio tower in the fairground area, built between 1924 and 1926. It is the only observation tower which stands on insulators and has a restaurant and an observation deck above ground, which is reachable by a windowed elevator.\n\nThe Oberbaumbrücke is Berlin's most iconic bridge, crossing the River Spree. It was a former East-West border crossing and connects the boroughs of Friedrichshain and Kreuzberg. It was completed in a brick gothic style in 1896. The center portion has been reconstructed with a steel frame after having been destroyed in 1945. The bridge has an upper deck for the Berlin U-Bahn line .\n\nOn 30 June 2017 the city-state of Berlin had a population of 3.69 million registered inhabitants in an area of . The city's population density was 4,048 inhabitants per km. Berlin is the second most populous city proper in the EU. The urban area of Berlin comprised about 4.1 million people in 2014 in an area of , making it the seventh most populous urban area in the European Union. The urban agglomeration of the metropolis was home to about 4.5 million in an area of . the functional urban area was home to about 5 million people in an area of approximately . The entire Berlin-Brandenburg capital region has a population of more than 6 million in an area of .\n\nIn 2014, the city state Berlin had 37,368 live births (+6,6%), a record number since 1991. The number of deaths was 32,314. Almost 2.0 million households were counted in the city. 54 percent of them were single-person households. More than 337,000 families with children under the age of 18 lived in Berlin. In 2014 the German capital registered a migration surplus of approximately 40,000 people.\n\nNational and international migration into the city has a long history. In 1685, following the revocation of the Edict of Nantes in France, the city responded with the Edict of Potsdam, which guaranteed religious freedom and tax-free status to French Huguenot refugees for ten years. The Greater Berlin Act in 1920 incorporated many suburbs and surrounding cities of Berlin. It formed most of the territory that comprises modern Berlin and increased the population from 1.9 million to 4 million.\n\nActive immigration and asylum politics in West Berlin triggered waves of immigration in the 1960s and 1970s. Currently, Berlin is home to at least 178,000 Turkish and Turkish German residents, making it the largest Turkish community outside of Turkey. In the 1990s the \"Aussiedlergesetze\" enabled immigration to Germany of some residents from the former Soviet Union. Today ethnic Germans from countries of the former Soviet Union make up the largest portion of the Russian-speaking community. The last decade experienced an influx from various Western countries and some African regions. A portion of the African immigrants have settled in the Afrikanisches Viertel. Young Germans, EU-Europeans and Israelis have also settled in the city.\n\nIn December 2016, there were 676,741 registered residents of foreign nationality and another 474,991 German citizens with a \"migration background\" \"(Migrationshintergrund, MH)\", meaning they or one of their parents immigrated to Germany after 1955. Foreign residents of Berlin originate from approximately 190 different countries. 48 percent of the residents under the age of 15 have migration background. Berlin in 2009 was estimated to have 100,000 to 250,000 non-registered inhabitants. Boroughs of Berlin with a significant number of migrants or foreign born population are Mitte, Neukölln and Friedrichshain-Kreuzberg.\n\nThere are more than 20 non-indigenous communities with a population of at least 10,000 people, including Turkish, Polish, Russian, Lebanese, Palestinian, Serbian, Italian, Bosnian, Vietnamese, American, Romanian, Bulgarian, Croatian, Chinese, Austrian, Ukrainian, French, British, Spanish, Israeli, Thai, Iranian, Egyptian and Syrian communities.\n\nGerman is the official and predominant spoken language in Berlin. It is a West Germanic language that derives most of its vocabulary from the Germanic branch of the Indo-European language family. German is one of 24 languages of the European Union, and one of the three working languages of the European Commission.\n\nBerlinerisch or Berlinisch is not a dialect linguistically, but has features of Lausitzisch-neumärkisch dialects. It is spoken in Berlin and the surrounding metropolitan area. It originates from a Mark Brandenburgish variant. The dialect is now seen more as a sociolect, largely through increased immigration and trends among the educated population to speak standard German in everyday life.\n\nThe most-commonly-spoken foreign languages in Berlin are Turkish, English, Russian, Arabic, Polish, Kurdish, Serbo-Croatian, Italian, Vietnamese, and French. Turkish, Arabic, Kurdish, Serbo-Croatian are heard more often in the western part, due to the large Middle Eastern and former-Yugoslavian communities. English, Vietnamese, Russian, and Polish have more native speakers in East Berlin.\n\nMore than 60% of Berlin residents have no registered religious affiliation. Non-religious groups that seek to represent the non-religious majority include the Humanist Association of Germany, which has its headquarters and its largest group in Berlin. The largest religious denomination recorded in 2010 was the Protestant regional church body – the Evangelical Church of Berlin-Brandenburg-Silesian Upper Lusatia (EKBO) – a United church. EKBO is a member of the Evangelical Church in Germany (EKD) and Union Evangelischer Kirchen (UEK), and accounts for 18.7% of the local population. The Roman Catholic Church has 9.1% of residents registered as its members. About 2.7% of the population identify with other Christian denominations (mostly Eastern Orthodox, but also various Protestants).\n\nIn 2009, approximately 249.000 Muslims were reported to be members of Islamic religious organizations in Berlin. In 2017, more than 400,000 registered residents, about 10.8% of the total, reported having a migration background from Islamic countries. Between 1992 and 2011 the Muslim population almost doubled.\n\nAbout 0.9% of Berliners belong to other religions. Of the estimated population of 30,000–45,000 Jewish residents, approximately 12,000 are registered members of religious organizations.\n\nBerlin is the seat of the Roman Catholic archbishop of Berlin and EKBO's elected chairperson is titled the bishop of EKBO. Furthermore, Berlin is the seat of many Orthodox cathedrals, such as the Cathedral of St. Boris the Baptist, one of the two seats of the Bulgarian Orthodox Diocese of Western and Central Europe, and the Resurrection of Christ Cathedral of the Diocese of Berlin (Patriarchate of Moscow).\n\nThe faithful of the different religions and denominations maintain many places of worship in Berlin. The Independent Evangelical Lutheran Church has eight parishes of different sizes in Berlin. There are 36 Baptist congregations (within Union of Evangelical Free Church Congregations in Germany), 29 New Apostolic Churches, 15 United Methodist churches, eight Free Evangelical Congregations, four Churches of Christ, Scientist (1st, 2nd, 3rd, and 11th), six congregations of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints, an Old Catholic church, and an Anglican church in Berlin. More than 80 mosques, ten synagogues, and two Buddhist temples are located in Berlin.\n\nSince the reunification on 3 October 1990, Berlin has been one of the three city states in Germany among the present 16 states of Germany. The House of Representatives (\"Abgeordnetenhaus\") functions as the city and state parliament, which currently has 141 seats. Berlin's executive body is the Senate of Berlin (\"Senat von Berlin\"). The Senate consists of the Governing Mayor (\"Regierender Bürgermeister\") and up to eight senators holding ministerial positions, one of them holding the title of \"Mayor\" (\"Bürgermeister\") as deputy to the Governing Mayor. The total annual state budget of Berlin in 2015 exceeded €24.5 ($30.0) billion including a budget surplus of €205 ($240) million.\n\nThe Social Democratic Party (SPD) and The Left (Die Linke) took control of the city government after the 2001 state election and won another term in the 2006 state election. Since the 2016 state election, there has been a coalition between the Social Democratic Party, the Greens and the Left Party.\n\nThe Governing Mayor is simultaneously Lord Mayor of the City of Berlin (\"Oberbürgermeister der Stadt\") and Minister President of the Federal State of Berlin (\"Ministerpräsident des Bundeslandes\"). The office of the Governing Mayor is located in the Rotes Rathaus (Red City Hall). Since 2014 this office has been held by Michael Müller of the Social Democrats.\n\nBerlin is subdivided into 12 boroughs or districts (\"Bezirke\"). Each borough is made up by a number of subdistricts or neighborhoods (\"Ortsteile\"), which have historic roots in much older municipalities that predate the formation of Greater Berlin on 1 October 1920. These subdistricts became urbanized and incorporated into the city later on. Many residents strongly identify with their neighbourhoods, colloquially called \"Kiez\". At present, Berlin consists of 96 subdistricts, which are commonly made up of several smaller residential areas or quarters.\n\nEach borough is governed by a borough council (\"Bezirksamt\") consisting of five councilors (\"Bezirksstadträte\") including the borough's mayor (\"Bezirksbürgermeister\"). The council is elected by the borough assembly (\"Bezirksverordnetenversammlung\"). However, the individual boroughs are not independent municipalities, but subordinate to the Senate of Berlin. The borough's mayors make up the council of mayors (\"Rat der Bürgermeister\"), which is led by the city's Governing Mayor and advises the Senate. The neighborhoods have no local government bodies.\n\nBerlin maintains official partnerships with 17 cities. Town twinning between Berlin and other cities began with its sister city Los Angeles in 1967. East Berlin's partnerships were canceled at the time of German reunification but later partially reestablished. West Berlin's partnerships had previously been restricted to the borough level. During the Cold War era, the partnerships had reflected the different power blocs, with West Berlin partnering with capitals in the Western World, and East Berlin mostly partnering with cities from the Warsaw Pact and its allies.\n\nThere are several joint projects with many other cities, such as Beirut, Belgrade, São Paulo, Copenhagen, Helsinki, Johannesburg, Mumbai, Oslo, Shanghai, Seoul, Sofia, Sydney, New York City and Vienna. Berlin participates in international city associations such as the Union of the Capitals of the European Union, Eurocities, Network of European Cities of Culture, Metropolis, Summit Conference of the World's Major Cities, and Conference of the World's Capital Cities. Berlin's official sister cities are:\nBerlin is the capital of the Federal Republic of Germany. The President of Germany, whose functions are mainly ceremonial under the German constitution, has their official residence in Bellevue Palace. Berlin is the seat of the German Chancellor (Prime Minister), housed in the Chancellery building, the \"Bundeskanzleramt\". Facing the Chancellery is the Bundestag, the German Parliament, housed in the renovated Reichstag building since the government's relocation to Berlin in 1998. The Bundesrat (\"federal council\", performing the function of an upper house) is the representation of the Federal States (\"Bundesländer\") of Germany and has its seat at the former Prussian House of Lords. The total annual federal budget managed by the German government exceeded €310 ($375) billion in 2013.\n\nThe relocation of the federal government and Bundestag to Berlin was mostly completed in 1999, however some ministries as well as some minor departments stayed in the federal city Bonn, the former capital of West Germany. Discussions about moving the remaining ministries and departments to Berlin continue. The ministries and departments of Defence, Justice and Consumer Protection, Finance, Interior, Foreign, Economic Affairs and Energy, Labour and Social Affairs\n, Family Affairs, Senior Citizens, Women and Youth, Environment, Nature Conservation, Building and Nuclear Safety, Food and Agriculture, Economic Cooperation and Development, Health, Transport and Digital Infrastructure and Education and Research are based in the capital.\n\nBerlin hosts in total 158 foreign embassies as well as the headquarters of many think tanks, trade unions, non-profit organizations, lobbying groups, and professional associations. Due to the influence and international partnerships of the Federal Republic of Germany, the capital city has become a significant centre of German and European affairs. Frequent official visits, and diplomatic consultations among governmental representatives and national leaders are common in contemporary Berlin.\n\nIn 2015 the nominal GDP of the citystate Berlin totaled €124.16 (~$142) billion compared to €117.75 in 2014, an increase of about 5.4%. Berlin's economy is dominated by the service sector, with around 84% of all companies doing business in services. In 2015, the total labour force in Berlin was 1.85 million. The unemployment rate reached a 24-year low in November 2015 and stood at 10.0% . From 2012–2015 Berlin, as a German state, had the highest annual employment growth rate. Around 130,000 jobs were added in this period.\n\nImportant economic sectors in Berlin include life sciences, transportation, information and communication technologies, media and music, advertising and design, biotechnology, environmental services, construction, e-commerce, retail, hotel business, and medical engineering.\n\nResearch and development have economic significance for the city. Several major corporations like Volkswagen, Pfizer, and SAP operate innovation laboratories in the city.\nThe Science and Business Park in Adlershof is the largest technology park in Germany measured by revenue. Within the Eurozone, Berlin has become a center for business relocation and international investments.\n\nMany German and international companies have business or service centers in the city. For several years Berlin has been recognized as a major center of business founders. In 2015 Berlin generated the most venture capital for young startup companies in Europe.\n\nAmong the 10 largest employers in Berlin are the City-State of Berlin, Deutsche Bahn, the hospital provider Charité and Vivantes, the Federal Government of Germany, the local public transport provider BVG, Siemens and Deutsche Telekom. The two largest banks headquartered in the capital are \"Investitionsbank Berlin\" and Landesbank Berlin.\n\nDaimler manufactures cars, and BMW builds motorcycles in Berlin. Bayer Health Care and \"Berlin Chemie\" are major pharmaceutical companies in the city.\n\nSiemens, a Global 500 and DAX-listed company is partly headquartered in Berlin. The national railway operator Deutsche Bahn, the MDAX-listed firms Axel Springer SE and Zalando, and the SDAX listed company Rocket Internet have their main headquarters in the central districts. Among the largest international corporations who operate a German or European headquarter in Berlin are Bombardier Transportation, Gazprom Germania, Coca-Cola, Pfizer and Total S.A..\n\nBerlin had 788 hotels with 134,399 beds in 2014. The city recorded 28.7 million overnight hotel stays and 11.9 million hotel guests in 2014. Tourism figures have more than doubled within the last ten years and Berlin has become the third most-visited city destination in Europe. Some of the most visited places in Berlin include: Potsdamer Platz, Brandenburger Tor, the Berlin wall, Alexanderplatz, Museumsinsel, Fernsehturm, the East-Side Gallery, Schloss-Charlottenburg, Zoologischer Garten, Siegessäule, Gedenkstätte Berliner Mauer, Mauerpark, Botanical Garden, Französischer Dom, Deutscher Dom and Holocaust-Mahnmal. The largest visitor groups are from Germany, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Italy, Spain and the United States.\n\nAccording to figures from the International Congress and Convention Association in 2015 Berlin became the leading organizer of conferences in the world hosting 195 international meetings. Some of these congress events take place on venues such as CityCube Berlin or the Berlin Congress Center (bcc).\n\nThe Messe Berlin (also known as Berlin ExpoCenter City) is the main convention organizing company in the city. Its main exhibition area covers more than . Several large-scale trade fairs like the consumer electronics trade fair IFA, the ILA Berlin Air Show, the Berlin Fashion Week (including the \"Premium Berlin\" and the \"Panorama Berlin\"), the Green Week, the \"Fruit Logistica\", the transport fair InnoTrans, the tourism fair ITB and the adult entertainment and erotic fair Venus are held annually in the city, attracting a significant number of business visitors.\n\nThe creative arts and entertainment business is an important and sizable sector of the economy of Berlin. The sector comprises music, film, advertising, architecture, art, design, fashion, performing arts, publishing, R&D, software, TV, radio, and video games.\n\nIn 2014, around 30,500 creative companies were operating in the Berlin-Brandenburg metropolitan region, predominantly SMEs. Generating a revenue of 15.6 billion Euro and 6% of all private economic sales, the culture industry grew from 2009 to 2014 at an average rate of 5.5% per year.\n\nBerlin is an important centre in the European and German film industry. It is home to more than 1,000 film and television production companies, 270 movie theaters, and around 300 national and international co-productions are filmed in the region every year. The historic Babelsberg Studios and the production company UFA are located adjacent to Berlin in Potsdam. The city is also home of the German Film Academy (Deutsche Filmakademie), founded in 2003, and the European Film Academy, founded in 1988.\n\nBerlin is home to numerous magazine, newspaper, book and scientific/academic publishers, as well as their associated service industries. In addition around 20 news agencies, more than 90 regional daily newspapers and their websites, as well as the Berlin offices of more than 22 national publications such as Der Spiegel, and Die Zeit re-enforce the capital's position as Germany's epicenter for influential debate. Therefore, many international journalists, bloggers and writers live and work in the city.\n\nBerlin is the central location to several international and regional television and radio stations. The public broadcaster RBB has its headquarters in Berlin as well as the commercial broadcasters MTV Europe, VIVA, and N24. German international public broadcaster Deutsche Welle has its TV production unit in Berlin, and most national German broadcasters have a studio in the city including ZDF and RTL.\n\nBerlin has Germany's largest number of daily newspapers, with numerous local broadsheets (\"Berliner Morgenpost\", \"Berliner Zeitung\", \"Der Tagesspiegel\"), and three major tabloids, as well as national dailies of varying sizes, each with a different political affiliation, such as \"Die Welt\", \"Neues Deutschland\", and \"Die Tageszeitung\". The \"Exberliner\", a monthly magazine, is Berlin's English-language periodical and La Gazette de Berlin a French-language newspaper.\n\nBerlin is also the headquarter of major German-language publishing houses like Walter de Gruyter, Springer, the Ullstein Verlagsgruppe (publishing group), Suhrkamp and Cornelsen are all based in Berlin. Each of which publish books, periodicals, and multimedia products.\n\nBerlin's transport infrastructure is highly complex, providing a diverse range of urban mobility. A total of 979 bridges cross of inner-city waterways. of roads run through Berlin, of which are motorways (\"Autobahn\"). In 2013, 1.344 million motor vehicles were registered in the city. With 377 cars per 1000 residents in 2013 (570/1000 in Germany), Berlin as a Western global city has one of the lowest numbers of cars per capita. In 2012, around 7,600 mostly beige colored taxicabs were in service. Since 2011, a number of app based e-car and e-scooter sharing services have evolved.\n\nLong-distance rail lines connect Berlin with all of the major cities of Germany and with many cities in neighboring European countries. Regional rail lines of the Verkehrsverbund Berlin-Brandenburg provide access to the surrounding regions of Brandenburg and to the Baltic Sea. The Berlin Hauptbahnhof is the largest grade-separated railway station in Europe. Deutsche Bahn runs high speed ICE trains to domestic destinations like Hamburg, Munich, Cologne, Stuttgart, Frankfurt am Main and others. It also runs an SXF airport express rail service, as well as trains to several international destinations like Vienna, Prague, Zürich, Warsaw, Budapest and Amsterdam.\n\nSimilarly to other German cities, there is an increasing quantity of intercity bus services. The city has more than 10 stations that run buses to destinations throughout Germany and Europe, being Zentraler Omnibusbahnhof Berlin the biggest station.\n\n\nThe and the Deutsche Bahn manage several extensive urban public transport systems.\nAll modes of transport can be accessed with a single ticket\n\nBerlin has two commercial international airports. Tegel Airport (TXL) is situated within the city limits, and Schönefeld Airport (SXF) is located just outside Berlin's south-eastern border, in the state of Brandenburg. Both airports together handled 29.5 million passengers in 2015. In 2014, 67 airlines served 163 destinations in 50 countries from Berlin. Tegel Airport is a focus city for Lufthansa and Eurowings. Schönefeld serves as an important destination for airlines like Germania, easyJet and Ryanair.\n\nThe new Berlin Brandenburg Airport (BER), currently under construction, will replace Tegel as single commercial airport of Berlin. The airport is going to integrate Schönefeld (SXF) facilities and is estimated to open in October 2019. The BER will have an initial capacity of around 35 million passengers per year. , plans for further expansion bringing the terminal capacity to approximately 50 million per year are in development.\n\nBerlin is well known for its highly developed bicycle lane system. It is estimated that Berlin has 710 bicycles per 1000 residents. Around 500,000 daily bike riders accounted for 13% of total traffic in 2010. Cyclists have access to of bicycle paths including approximately of mandatory bicycle paths, of off-road bicycle routes, of bicycle lanes on roads, of shared bus lanes which are also open to cyclists, of combined pedestrian/bike paths and of marked bicycle lanes on roadside pavements (or sidewalks). Riders are allowed to carry their bicycles on Regionalbahn, S-Bahn and U-Bahn trains, on trams, and on night buses if a bike ticket is purchased.\n\nBerlin's two largest energy provider for private households are the Swedish firm Vattenfall and the Berlin-based company GASAG. Both offer electric power and natural gas supply. Some of the city's electric energy is imported from nearby power plants in southern Brandenburg.\n\nIn 1993 the power grid connections in the Berlin-Brandenburg capital region were renewed. In most of the inner districts of Berlin power lines are underground cables; only a 380 kV and a 110 kV line, which run from Reuter substation to the urban Autobahn, use overhead lines. The Berlin 380-kV electric line is the backbone of the city's energy grid.\n\nBerlin has a long history of discoveries in medicine and innovations in medical technology. The modern history of medicine has been significantly influenced by scientists from Berlin. Rudolf Virchow was the founder of cellular pathology, while Robert Koch developed vaccines for anthrax, cholera, and tuberculosis.\n\nThe Charité complex (Universitätsklinik Charité) is the largest university hospital in Europe, tracing back its origins to the year 1710. The Charité is spread over four sites and comprises 3,300 beds, around 14,000 staff, 7,000 students, and more than 60 operating theaters, and it has a turnover of over one billion euros annually. The Charité is a joint institution of the Freie Universität Berlin and the Humboldt University of Berlin, including a wide range of institutes and specialized medical centers.\n\nAmong them are the German Heart Center, one of the most renowned transplantation centers, the Max-Delbrück-Center for Molecular Medicine and the Max-Planck-Institute for Molecular Genetics. The scientific research at these institutions is complemented by many research departments of companies such as Siemens and Bayer. The World Health Summit and several international health related conventions are held annually in Berlin.\n\nSince 2017, the digital television standard in Berlin and Germany is DVB-T2. This system transmits compressed digital audio, digital video and other data in an MPEG transport stream.\n\nBerlin has installed several hundred free public Wireless LAN sites across the capital since 2016. The wireless networks are concentrated mostly in central districts; 650 hotspots (325 indoor and 325 outdoor access points) are installed. Deutsche Bahn is planning to introduce Wi-Fi services in long distance and regional trains in 2017.\n\nThe UMTS (3G) and LTE (4G) networks of the three major cellular operators Vodafone, T-Mobile and O2 enable the use of mobile broadband applications citywide.\n\nThe Fraunhofer Heinrich Hertz Institute develops mobile and stationary broadband communication networks and multimedia systems. Focal points are photonic components and systems, fiber optic sensor systems, and image signal processing and transmission. Future applications for broadband networks are developed as well.\n\n, Berlin had 878 schools, teaching 340,658 children in 13,727 classes and 56,787 trainees in businesses and elsewhere. The city has a 6-year primary education program. After completing primary school, students continue to the (a comprehensive school) or (college preparatory school). Berlin has a special bilingual school program in the , in which children are taught the curriculum in German and a foreign language, starting in primary school and continuing in high school.\n\nThe Französisches Gymnasium Berlin, which was founded in 1689 to teach the children of Huguenot refugees, offers (German/French) instruction. The John F. Kennedy School, a bilingual German–American public school located in Zehlendorf, is particularly popular with children of diplomats and the English-speaking expatriate community. 82 teach Latin and 8 teach Classical Greek.\n\nThe Berlin-Brandenburg capital region is one of the most prolific centres of higher education and research in Germany and Europe. Historically, 40 Nobel Prize winners are affiliated with the Berlin-based universities.\n\nThe city has four public research universities and more than 30 private, professional, and technical colleges \"(Hochschulen)\", offering a wide range of disciplines. A record number of 175,651 students were enrolled in the winter term of 2015/16. Among them around 18% have an international background.\n\nThe three largest universities combined have approximately 100,000 enrolled students. There are the Humboldt Universität zu Berlin \"(HU Berlin)\" with 33,000 students, the Freie Universität Berlin \"(Free University of Berlin, FU Berlin)\" with about 33,000 students, and the Technische Universität Berlin \"(TU Berlin)\" with 33,000 students. The FU and the HU are part of the German Universities Excellence Initiative. The Universität der Künste \"(UdK)\" has about 4,000 students. The Berlin School of Economics and Law has an enrollment of about 10,000 students and the Hochschule für Technik und Wirtschaft (University of Applied Sciences for Engineering and Economics) of about 13.000 students.\n\nThe city has a high density of internationally renowned research institutions, such as the Fraunhofer Society, the Leibniz Association, the Helmholtz Association, and the Max Planck Society, which are independent of, or only loosely connected to its universities. In 2012, around 65,000 professional scientists were working in research and development in the city.\n\nBerlin is one of the knowledge and innovation communities (KIC) of the European Institute of Innovation and Technology (EIT). The KIC is based at the Centre for Entrepreneurship at TU Berlin and has a focus in the development of IT industries. It partners with major multinational companies such as Siemens, Deutsche Telekom, and SAP.\n\nOne of Europe's successful research, business and technology clusters is based at WISTA in Berlin-Adlershof, with more than 1,000 affiliated firms, university departments and scientific institutions.\n\nIn addition to the libraries that are affiliated with the various universities, the Staatsbibliothek zu Berlin is a major research library. Its two main locations are on Potsdamer Straße and on Unter den Linden. There are also 86 public libraries in the city. ResearchGate, a global social networking site for scientists, is based in Berlin.\n\nBerlin is known for its numerous cultural institutions, many of which enjoy international reputation. The diversity and vivacity of the metropolis led to a trendsetting atmosphere. An innovative music, dance and art scene has developed in the 21st century.\n\nYoung people, international artists and entrepreneurs continued to settle in the city and made Berlin a popular entertainment center in the world.\n\nThe expanding cultural performance of the city was underscored by the relocation of the Universal Music Group who decided to move their headquarters to the banks of the River Spree. In 2005, Berlin was named \"City of Design\" by UNESCO and has been part of the Creative Cities Network ever since.\n\n Berlin is home to 138 museums and more than 400 art galleries.\n\nApart from the Museum Island, there are many additional museums in the city. The Gemäldegalerie (Painting Gallery) focuses on the paintings of the \"old masters\" from the 13th to the 18th centuries, while the Neue Nationalgalerie (New National Gallery, built by Ludwig Mies van der Rohe) specializes in 20th-century European painting. The Hamburger Bahnhof, located in Moabit, exhibits a major collection of modern and contemporary art. The expanded Deutsches Historisches Museum re-opened in the Zeughaus with an overview of German history spanning more than a millennium. The Bauhaus Archive is a museum of 20th century design from the famous Bauhaus school.\n\nThe Jewish Museum has a standing exhibition on two millennia of German-Jewish history. The German Museum of Technology in Kreuzberg has a large collection of historical technical artifacts. The \"Museum für Naturkunde\" (Berlin's natural history museum) exhibits natural history near Berlin Hauptbahnhof. It has the largest mounted dinosaur in the world (a \"Giraffatitan\" skeleton). A well-preserved specimen of \"Tyrannosaurus rex\" and the early bird \"Archaeopteryx\" are at display as well.\n\nIn Dahlem, there are several museums of world art and culture, such as the Museum of Asian Art, the Ethnological Museum, the Museum of European Cultures, as well as the Allied Museum. The Brücke Museum features one of the largest collection of works by artist of the early 20th-century expressionist movement. In Lichtenberg, on the grounds of the former East German Ministry for State Security, is the Stasi Museum. The site of Checkpoint Charlie, one of the most renowned crossing points of the Berlin Wall, is still preserved. A private museum venture exhibits a comprehensive documentation of detailed plans and strategies devised by people who tried to flee from the East. The Beate Uhse Erotic Museum claims to be the world's largest erotic museum.\n\nThe cityscape of Berlin displays large quantities of urban street art. It has become a significant part of the city's cultural heritage and has its roots in the graffiti scene of Kreuzberg of the 1980s. The Berlin Wall itself has become one of the largest open-air canvasses in the world. The leftover stretch along the Spree river in Friedrichshain remains as the East Side Gallery. Berlin today is consistently rated as an important world city for street art culture.\n\nBerlin's nightlife has been celebrated as one of the most diverse and vibrant of its kind. In the 1970s and 80s the SO36 in Kreuzberg was a centre for punk music and culture. The \"SOUND\" and the \"Dschungel\" gained notoriety. Throughout the 1990s, people in their 20s from all over the world, particularly those in Western and Central Europe, made Berlin's club scene a premier nightlife venue. After the fall of the Berlin Wall in 1989, many historic buildings in Mitte, the former city centre of East Berlin, were illegally occupied and re-built by young squatters and became a fertile ground for underground and counterculture gatherings. The central boroughs are home to many nightclubs, including the Watergate, Tresor and Berghain. The KitKatClub and several other locations are known for their sexually uninhibited parties.\n\nClubs are not required to close at a fixed time during the weekends, and many parties last well into the morning, or even all weekend. The \"Berghain\" features the well-known \"Panorama Bar\", a bar that opens its shades at daybreak, allowing party-goers a panorama view of Berlin after dancing through the night. The \"Weekend Club\" near Alexanderplatz features a roof terrace that allows partying at night. Several venues have become a popular stage for the Neo-Burlesque scene.\n\nBerlin has a long history of gay culture, and is an important birthplace of the LGBT rights movement. Same-sex bars and dance halls operated freely as early as the 1880s, and the first gay magazine, \"Der Eigene\", started in 1896. By the 1920s, gays and lesbians had an unprecedented visibility. Today, in addition to a positive atmosphere in the wider club scene, the city again has a huge number of queer clubs and festivals. The most famous and largest are Berlin Pride, the Christopher Street Day, the Lesbian and Gay City Festival in Berlin-Schöneberg, the Kreuzberg Pride and Hustlaball.\n\nThe annual Berlin International Film Festival (Berlinale) with around 500,000 admissions is considered to be the largest publicly attended film festival in the world. The Karneval der Kulturen (\"Carnival of Cultures\"), a multi-ethnic street parade, is celebrated every Pentecost weekend. Berlin is also well known for the cultural festival, Berliner Festspiele, which includes the jazz festival JazzFest Berlin. Several technology and media art festivals and conferences are held in the city, including Transmediale and Chaos Communication Congress. The annual Berlin Festival focuses on indie rock, electronic music and synthpop and is part of the International Berlin Music Week. Every year Berlin hosts one of the largest New Year's Eve celebrations in the world, attended by well over a million people. The focal point is the Brandenburg Gate, where midnight fireworks are centred, but various private fireworks displays take place throughout the entire city. Partygoers in Germany often toast the New Year with a glass of sparkling wine.\n\nBerlin is home to 44 theaters and stages. The Deutsches Theater in Mitte was built in 1849–50 and has operated almost continuously since then. The Volksbühne at Rosa-Luxemburg-Platz was built in 1913–14, though the company had been founded in 1890. The Berliner Ensemble, famous for performing the works of Bertolt Brecht, was established in 1949. The Schaubühne was founded in 1962 and moved to the building of the former Universum Cinema on Kurfürstendamm in 1981. With a seating capacity of 1,895 and a stage floor of , the Friedrichstadt-Palast in Berlin Mitte is the largest show palace in Europe.\n\nBerlin has three major opera houses: the Deutsche Oper, the Berlin State Opera, and the Komische Oper. The Berlin State Opera on Unter den Linden opened in 1742 and is the oldest of the three. Its current musical director is Daniel Barenboim. The Komische Oper has traditionally specialized in operettas and is located at Unter den Linden as well. The Deutsche Oper opened in 1912 in Charlottenburg.\n\nThe city's main venue for musical theater performances are the Theater am Potsdamer Platz and Theater des Westens (built in 1895). Contemporary dance can be seen at the \"Radialsystem V\". The Tempodrom is host to concerts and circus inspired entertainment. It also houses a multi-sensory spa experience. The Admiralspalast in Mitte has a vibrant program of variety and music events.\n\nThere are seven symphony orchestras in Berlin. The Berlin Philharmonic Orchestra is one of the preeminent orchestras in the world; it is housed in the Berliner Philharmonie near Potsdamer Platz on a street named for the orchestra's longest-serving conductor, Herbert von Karajan. The current principal conductor is Simon Rattle. The Konzerthausorchester Berlin was founded in 1952 as the orchestra for East Berlin. Its current principal conductor is Ivan Fischer. The Haus der Kulturen der Welt presents various exhibitions dealing with intercultural issues and stages world music and conferences. The \"Kookaburra\" and the \"Quatsch Comedy Club\" are known for satire and stand-up comedy shows.\n\nThe cuisine and culinary offerings of Berlin vary greatly. Twelve restaurants in Berlin have been included in the Michelin Guide of 2015, which ranks the city at the top for the number of restaurants having this distinction in Germany. Berlin is well known for its offerings of vegetarian and vegan cuisine and is home to an innovative entrepreneurial food scene promoting cosmopolitan flavors, local and sustainable ingredients, pop-up street food markets, supper clubs, as well as food festivals, such as Berlin Food Week.\n\nMany local foods originated from north German culinary traditions and include rustic and hearty dishes with pork, goose, fish, peas, beans, cucumbers, or potatoes. Typical Berliner fare include popular street food like the \"Currywurst\" (which gained popularity with post-war construction workers rebuilding the city), \"Buletten\" and the \"Berliner\" doughnut, known in Berlin as . German bakeries offering a variety of breads and pastries are widespread. One of Europe's largest delicatessen markets is found at the KaDeWe, and among the world's largest chocolate stores is \"Fassbender & Rausch\".\n\nBerlin is also home to a diverse gastronomy scene reflecting the immigrant history of the city. Turkish and Arab immigrants brought their culinary traditions to the city, such as the lahmajoun and falafel, which have become common fast food staples. The modern fast food version of the doner kebab sandwich evolved in Berlin in the 1970s, and became a favorite in Germany and elsewhere in the world. Asian cuisine like Chinese, Vietnamese, Thai, Indian, Korean, and Japanese restaurants, as well as Spanish tapas bars, Italian, and Greek cuisine, can be found in many parts of the city.\n\nZoologischer Garten Berlin, the older of two zoos in the city, was founded in 1844. It is the most visited zoo in Europe and presents the most diverse range of species in the world. It was the home of the captive-born celebrity polar bear Knut. The city's other zoo, Tierpark Friedrichsfelde, was founded in 1955.\n\nBerlin's Botanischer Garten includes the Botanic Museum Berlin. With an area of and around 22,000 different plant species, it is one of the largest and most diverse collections of botanical life in the world. Other gardens in the city include the Britzer Garten, and the Gärten der Welt (Gardens of the World) in Marzahn.\nThe Tiergarten park in Mitte, with landscape design by Peter Joseph Lenné, is one of Berlin's largest and most popular parks. In Kreuzberg, the Viktoriapark provides a viewing point over the southern part of inner-city Berlin. Treptower Park, beside the Spree in Treptow, features a large Soviet War Memorial. The Volkspark in Friedrichshain, which opened in 1848, is the oldest park in the city, with monuments, a summer outdoor cinema and several sports areas. Tempelhofer Feld, the site of the former city airport, is the world's largest inner-city open space.\n\nPotsdam is situated on the southwestern periphery of Berlin. The city was a residence of the Prussian kings and the German Kaiser, until 1918. The area around Potsdam in particular Sanssouci is known for a series of interconnected lakes and cultural landmarks. The Palaces and Parks of Potsdam and Berlin are the largest World Heritage Site in Germany.\n\nBerlin is also well known for its numerous cafés, street musicians, beach bars along the Spree River, flea markets, boutique shops and pop up stores, which are a source for recreation and leisure.\n\nBerlin has established a high-profile as a host city of major international sporting events. The city hosted the 1936 Summer Olympics and was the host city for the 2006 FIFA World Cup final. The IAAF World Championships in Athletics was held in the Olympiastadion in 2009. The city hosted the Basketball Euroleague Final Four in 2009 and 2016. and was one of the hosts of the FIBA EuroBasket 2015. In 2015 Berlin became the venue for the UEFA Champions League Final.\n\nThe annual Berlin Marathon a course that holds the most top-10 world record runs and the ISTAF are well-established athletic events in the city. The Mellowpark in Köpenick is one of the biggest skate and BMX parks in Europe. A Fan Fest at Brandenburg Gate, which attracts several hundred-thousand spectators, has become popular during international football competitions, like the UEFA European Championship.\n\nIn 2013 around 600,000 Berliners were registered in one of the more than 2,300 sport and fitness clubs. The city of Berlin operates more than 60 public indoor and outdoor swimming pools. Berlin is the largest Olympic training centre in Germany. About 500 top athletes (15% of all German top athletes) are based there. Forty-seven elite athletes participated in the 2012 Summer Olympics. Berliners would achieve seven gold, twelve silver and three bronze medals.\n\nSeveral professional clubs representing the most important spectator team sports in Germany have their base in Berlin:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29465365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29465365", "title": "Bibliography of Guadeloupe", "text": "Bibliography of Guadeloupe\n\nThis is a list of books in the English language which deal with Guadeloupe and its geography, history, inhabitants, culture, biota, etc. \n\n"}
{"id": "28639121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28639121", "title": "Big Johnson", "text": "Big Johnson\n\nBig Johnson is a brand that is marketed by Maryland Brand Management, Inc. (MBM), known for its T-shirts featuring E. Normus Johnson depicted in comic art featuring sexual innuendos. MBM is the successor company to Maryland Screen Printers Inc. (MSP) and G & C Sales, Inc. At the height of Big Johnson's success in the 1990s, it sponsored a Big Johnson NASCAR automobile and MSP was twice listed in the \"Inc.\" list of America's fastest growing companies. The sexual innuendo has been controversial leading to court rulings banning sales in federal buildings and corporate decisions banning wearing the shirts.\n\nIn 1986, Garrett and Craig Pfeifer created G & C Sales to create and market apparel relying on suppliers. The explosive growth of the company which surpassed the capabilities of the company's suppliers led to the formation of MSP in 1988, which gave the brothers control of their own production. MSP was named to \"Inc.\"'s List of Americas fastest growing companies in both 1993 and 1994. Big Johnson T-shirts and apparel are by far the most famous product of MBM. The brand peaked in the 1990s, with 1992 sales of $6.5 million ($ million today); 1994 sales of $16.5 million ($ million) and 1996 sales reaching $20 million ($ million). These sales were on shirts that wholesaled for $7.50. At that time, the company sponsored the Big Johnson NASCAR race car of Dick Trickle. For a time, the company also sponsored the Busch Grand National Series NASCAR driver Johnny Rumley. In 1995, the Big Johnson fan club had 13,000 members. In 2006, Garrett Pfeifer created Maryland Brand Management, Inc. During that period Big Johnson accounted for 60% of MSP's sales and profits doubled every year from 1990 to 1994. In 2009, MBM celebrated 20 years of Big Johnson apparel.\n\nIn 1995, the company's products became part of a United States Constitution First Amendment case when a gift shop proprietor at the National Fire Academy in Emmitsburg, Maryland was forced by a U.S. District Court ruling to take sexually suggestive T-shirts and cards out of his store, which was located in a federal building. The order noted that \"The sale . . . of items which denote sexually offensive and discriminatory statements, depictions or pictures is in violation of federal law and presents a hostile and sexually offensive environment\". The proprietor sought an injunction against the U.S. Fire Administration. A few months after the ruling, the case was settled with the gift shop being granted expanded space in exchange for surrendering the right to sell the offending materials. Although both Disney World and Kings Dominion, are both large customers of MBM, Big Johnson shirts are banned in their amusement parks. Big Johnson has expanded beyond E. Normus Johnson shirts with lines of shirts for firefighters, police, and bikers.\n\nIn 2014, the Big Johnson brand was licensed to Seaboard Traders of South Carolina under the brand BigJohnsonClassics.com. Through the BigJohnsonClassics.com website, new designs are being added, and the original designs are being recreated, based on customer demand.\n\nE. Normus Johnson is fictional character who is the subject (and thus the voice) of Big Johnson T-shirts. Each shirt has a caption and image that plays on the phallic slang meaning of the term Johnson using double entendres. E. Normus is always the main character of the image.\n\nE. Normus Johnson is depicted as a scrawny, freckle-faced, bespectacled, red-haired geek. He is described as \"a geekier version of \"MAD magazine\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s Alfred E. Neuman\" by brandchannel. He is known for his nerdiness and his unconfirmed claims of gargantuan physical endowment. Created in 1988 or 1989, depending on the source, he had appeared in 120 cartoon depictions by novelty t-shirt designers Maryland Screenprinters in their primary business line of Big Johnson T-shirts by 1995. In 2009, MBM celebrated 20 years of Big Johnson apparel. The cartoons are all juvenile humor that allude to male genitalia without ever mentioning it by using the double entendre of the Big Johnson name. Using no nudity most t-shirts depict the mascot with a caption containing a clever pun. Most of the comic art includes buxom adoring women accompanying E. Normus. Examples of the puns accompanying artistic depictions of E.Normus are \"Big Johnson Fire Department: Break out your hose and pumper\", \"Big Johnson Fishing Gear: She’ll be ready to bite as soon as your fly drops\", \"Big Johnson Bar and Casino: Liquor up front. Poker in the rear\", and \"Big Johnson Tattoo Parlor: You’re going to feel more than a little prick\". Johnson is the work of Maryland Screenprinters' artist Al Via. The common themes of the captions depict the target market as firefighters, NASCAR fanatics, hunters, anglers, car buffs and, apparently, Southerners.\n\n"}
{"id": "37808416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37808416", "title": "Billy O'Callaghan", "text": "Billy O'Callaghan\n\nBilly O'Callaghan (born 9 December 1974) is an Irish short fiction writer and novelist. He is best known for his short-story collection \"The Things We Lose, The Things We Leave Behind\", which was awarded the Bord Gáis Energy Irish Book Award for the short story in 2013.\n\nBilly O'Callaghan was born in Cork in 1974, and grew up in Douglas village, where he still lives. \n\nHis first collection of short stories, \"In Exile\", was published by Mercier Press in 2008. This was followed a year later by a second collection, \"In Too Deep\" (also published by Mercier Press). In 2013, his third collection, \"The Things We Lose, The Things We Leave Behind\", was published by New Island Books. His short stories have been published in literary journals around the world, and translated into several other languages. His work has been broadcast on RTÉ Radio 1's The Book On One, Sunday Miscellany and the Francis McManus Award series.\n\nO'Callaghan's first novel, \"The Dead House\", was published in Ireland by Brandon Books in Spring 2017, and in North America by Arcade in 2018.\n\nHis new novel, \"My Coney Island Baby\", will be published early in 2019, by Jonathan Cape (UK) and Harper (USA).\n\nIn November 2013, \"The Things We Lose, The Things We Leave Behind\", won the inaugural Short Story of the Year Award at the 2013 Bord Gáis Energy Irish Book Award; \"Down by the River\" was selected in 2014 as Ireland's representative in the ongoing UNESCO Cities of Literature project; and \"The Boatman\" was a finalist for the 2016 Costa Short Story Award.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50135302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50135302", "title": "Conservation and restoration of flags and banners", "text": "Conservation and restoration of flags and banners\n\nThe conservation and restoration of flags and banners is the process by which conservators work to preserve and restore flags and banners from future deterioration and damage. As a part of Conservation of Textiles, flag and banner conservation require the care of a skilled and well trained textile conservator, specifically trained in historical materials.\n\nHistorical Flags are often made of silk, cotton, linen, or thin wool bunting. These materials were used in the making of flags, primarily in the U.S. until the mid 20th century. Forensic examination of flags, to the level of examining the fibers of the fabrics themselves, and the threads used to sew the flags, helps identify the period of the materials used and usually is a good indicator of the period of a flag (though not necessarily, in the case of a forgery). These materials can be very fragile and require advanced conservation techniques. Conservators are experts in stabilization and preservation of historic fabrics, flags may be in a variety of conditions from good condition to tattered fragments. Silk and wool are protein fibers whereas cotton and linen are vegetable fibers. The process by which they deteriorate will vary greatly and needs to be carefully addressed during conservation and preservation. Nowadays many flags are made of a synthetic blend or nylon materials, which have their own unique requirements for preservation and care.\n\nFlag condition often relates to their usage during the war, so some of the most historically significant examples show the greatest damage. However, flags were not limited to damage from war, such as bullet holes or blood stains - which have specific treatments themselves - but also damage from natural elements such as wind, light exposure, temperature, humidity and pest infestation.\n\n\nIf pest infestation occurs it is important to act fast by following the IPM plan and consulting a trusted pest control professional. If individual pieces are attacked it is important to isolate them immediately in a plastic bag or sealed between to sheets of plastic and tape and then proceed with the IPM.\n\nIt is important to consider proper textile storage in the design plan of your storage facility. This room should have limited access, in the interior of the building, with no exposure to outside light, temperature controlled, and properly installed monitoring equipment. Like other organic materials, textiles can deteriorate very quickly under fluctuating temperatures and humidity levels. Flags and banner are no exception to this so proper storage is critical in preservation.\n"}
{"id": "1666053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1666053", "title": "Corpus Aristotelicum", "text": "Corpus Aristotelicum\n\nThe Corpus Aristotelicum is the collection of Aristotle's works that have survived from antiquity through medieval manuscript transmission. These texts, as opposed to Aristotle's lost works, are technical philosophical treatises from within Aristotle's school. Reference to them is made according to the organization of Immanuel Bekker's nineteenth-century edition, which in turn is based on ancient classifications of these works.\n\nThe extant works of Aristotle are broken down according to the five categories in the Corpus Aristotelicum. Not all of these works are considered genuine, but differ with respect to their connection to Aristotle, his associates and his views. Some are regarded by most scholars as products of Aristotle's \"school\" and compiled under his direction or supervision. (The \"Constitution of the Athenians\", the only major modern addition to the Corpus Aristotelicum, has also been so regarded.) Other works, such as \"On Colors\", may have been products of Aristotle's successors at the Lyceum, e.g., Theophrastus and Strato of Lampsacus. Still others acquired Aristotle's name through similarities in doctrine or content, such as the \"De Plantis,\" possibly by Nicolaus of Damascus. A final category, omitted here, includes medieval palmistries, astrological and magical texts whose connection to Aristotle is purely fanciful and self-promotional.\n\nIn several of the treatises, there are references to other works in the corpus. Based on such references, some scholars have suggested a possible chronological order for a number of Aristotle's writings. W.D. Ross, for instance, suggested the following broad chronology (which of course leaves out much): \"Categories\", \"Topics\", \"Sophistici Elenchi\", \"Analytics\", \"Metaphysics Δ\", the physical works, the \"Ethics\", and the rest of the \"Metaphysics\". Many modern scholars, however, based simply on lack of evidence, are skeptical of such attempts to determine the chronological order of Aristotle's writings.\n\nAccording to a distinction that originates with Aristotle himself, his writings are divisible into two groups: the \"exoteric\" and the \"esoteric\". Most scholars have understood this as a distinction between works Aristotle intended for the public (exoteric), and the more technical works intended for use within the Lyceum course / school (esoteric). Modern scholars commonly assume these latter to be Aristotle's own (unpolished) lecture notes (or in some cases possible notes by his students). However, one classic scholar offers an alternative interpretation. The 5th century neoplatonist Ammonius Hermiae writes that Aristotle's writing style is deliberately obscurantist so that \"good people may for that reason stretch their mind even more, whereas empty minds that are lost through carelessness will be put to flight by the obscurity when they encounter sentences like these.\"\n\nBekker numbers, the standard form of reference to works in the Corpus Aristotelicum, are based on the page numbers used in the Prussian Academy of Sciences edition of the complete works of Aristotle (\"Aristotelis Opera edidit Academia Regia Borussica\", Berlin, 1831–1870). They take their name from the editor of that edition, the classical philologist August Immanuel Bekker (1785–1871).\n\nThe following list gives the Bekker numbers that are used to give references to Aristotle's works; all of Aristotle's works are listed, except for the \"Constitution of the Athenians\", which was discovered after Bekker's edition was published, and the fragments.\n\nThe titles are given in accordance with the standard set by the Revised Oxford Translation. Latin titles, still often used by scholars, are also given.\n\nThe \"Constitution of the Athenians\" (Greek, \"Athenaiōn Politeia\"; Latin, \"Atheniensium Respublica\") was not included in Bekker's edition because it was first edited in 1891 from papyrus rolls acquired in 1890 by the British Museum. The standard reference to it is by section (and subsection) numbers.\n\nSurviving fragments of the many lost works of Aristotle were included in the fifth volume of Bekker's edition, edited by Valentin Rose. These are not cited by Bekker numbers, however, but according to fragment numbers. Rose's first edition of the fragments of Aristotle was \"Aristoteles Pseudepigraphus\" (1863). As the title suggests, Rose considered these all to be spurious. The numeration of the fragments in a revised edition by Rose, published in the Teubner series, \"Aristotelis qui ferebantur librorum fragmenta\", Leipzig, 1886, is still commonly used (indicated by \"R\"), although there is a more current edition with a different numeration by Olof Gigon (published in 1987 as a new vol. 3 in Walter de Gruyter's reprint of the Bekker edition), and a new de Gruyter edition by Eckart Schütrumpf is in preparation.\n\nFor a selection of the fragments in English translation, see W. D. Ross, \"Select Fragments\" (Oxford 1952), and Jonathan Barnes (ed.), \"The Complete Works of Aristotle: The Revised Oxford Translation\", vol. 2, Princeton 1984, pp. 2384–2465. A new translation exists of the fragments of Aristotle's \"Protrepticus\", by Hutchinson and Johnson (2015).\n\nThe works surviving only in fragments include the dialogues \"On Philosophy\" (or \"On the Good\"), \"Eudemus\" (or \"On the Soul\"), \"On Justice\", and \"On Good Birth\". The possibly spurious work, \"On Ideas\" survives in quotations by Alexander of Aphrodisias in his commentary on Aristotle's \"Metaphysics\". For the dialogues, see also the editions of Richard Rudolf Walzer, \"Aristotelis Dialogorum fragmenta, in usum scholarum\" (Florence 1934), and Renato Laurenti, \"Aristotele: I frammenti dei dialoghi\" (2 vols.), Naples: Luigi Loffredo, 1987.\n\n"}
{"id": "40270139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40270139", "title": "Cradling (paintings)", "text": "Cradling (paintings)\n\nCradling is a process used in the restoration and preservation of paintings on wooden panel. It consists in mounting a grid of wooden slats to the back of a painting to create a reinforcement and preserve the flat paint surface.\n\nSlats in either the horizontal or vertical direction are permanently fixed to the back of the panel, whilst the secondary perpendicular slats remain loose, held solely in place by the upper row. This allows for a degree of movement in the panel, which may warp, subject to changing levels of dampness and atmospheric pressure.\n\nThis procedure can often be found on Old Master paintings of the 16th and 17th Century, when painting on wood and particularly oak panel was widely practiced.\n\nThere are numerous reasons for choosing to cradle a panel. This can be done to piece back together a painting which has split and cracked over time. It can also be done to consolidate, preserve or straighten back a panel which may have warped.\n\nThere are detrimental factors to consider before cradling a painting. It is an interventive procedure which may involve sanding the back of the panel in order to create a flat surface to affix the cradling. It is a non reversible procedure which alters the condition and state of a work of art, which triggers ethical issues.\n\nWith a lot of cradled paintings the sliding cradle members will get stuck due to the movement of the panel. This leads to a lot of tension and cracks in the panel and permanent deformation. Applying a cradle to the back of a panel painting almost always leads to more severe structural problems depending on the climate in which the painting is kept and the way the planks of the panel were saw. Nowadays, in the modern world of conservation cradling a painting has been outdated and subject to criticism.\n\nDuke University and The University of Brussels have developed an art conservation tool that uses X-rays and algorithms to analyze the paintings. To better image the art piece, for it is of wood sections(cradles) the machine called Platypus or the computer math program sorts out the wood and finely visualizes the original art.\n"}
{"id": "3014156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3014156", "title": "Curse of the Black Sox", "text": "Curse of the Black Sox\n\nThe Curse of the Black Sox/Curse of Shoeless Joe (1919–2005) was a superstition or \"scapegoat\" cited as one reason for the failure of the Chicago White Sox to win the World Series from until . As with other supposed baseball curses, such as the crosstown Chicago Cubs' Curse of the Billy Goat, or the Boston Red Sox' Curse of the Bambino, these \"curses\" have been publicized by the popular media over the course of time.\n\nThe White Sox were dealt a severe blow in 1919 by the Black Sox scandal, with several star players being suspended at a crucial time late in the 1920 season. Conventional wisdom has it that the Sox were headed for another pennant and championship and that the suspensions knocked them out of the race. In reality, the last game for the \"Eight Men Out\" was September 27, just three games from the end of their season. At that point the Sox had won 3 in a row and were sitting at 95-56 with 3 games to play. The Cleveland Indians were also in a hot streak, at 94-54 with 6 games to play, and halfway through a four-game sweep of the St. Louis Browns. The Indians were just a few percentage points ahead of the White Sox.\n\nThe Indians would close the season with 4 wins and 2 losses, and finish with a 98-56 record. The Sox would lose 2 of their final 3 to finish 96-58. If the Sox had swept their final series against the Browns and the Indians record stayed the same, the American League would have had its first pennant playoff. Even discounting any morale boost the Indians might have received from the news of the Sox players' suspensions, the Sox return to the World Series was by no means ensured, even if there had been no suspensions. If they had finished tied, it would be noted that the Indians had won 12 of the clubs' 22 meetings, but the Sox had taken 2 of 3 in their most recent series.\n\nIn any case, the Sox finished in second place, two games behind the Indians, who went on to win (and make some history) in the 1920 World Series. However, the New York Yankees, who finished in third place just a game behind the Sox in Babe Ruth's first year with the club, would go on to win the next three American League pennants, starting a dynasty that would be a difficult hurdle for the other AL clubs, including the White Sox, for many decades thereafter.\n\nWith the players' suspensions becoming permanent, the Sox fell to seventh place in 1921. It would be the mid-1930s before the team returned to the upper half of the league, and the early 1950s before they became regular contenders again.\n\nWhen the White Sox finally won their next pennant, in 1959, Jack Brickhouse called the final out of the pennant-clinching game: \"A forty year wait has now ended!\" At that time, four decades was the longest stretch any major league team had gone without a World Series appearance (the crosstown Cubs had only gone 14 years after winning their last pennant). In that sense, the Black Sox \"curse\", or the apparent pall cast over the franchise for some decades in the wake of the scandal, had also finally ended. Despite the team's pennant victory, however, they lost the 1959 World Series to the Los Angeles Dodgers in six games.\n\nThe White Sox remained competitive for the next several years, but were not quite good enough to win. After a slump, they became contenders again starting in the late 1970s, and qualified for post-season play by winning the American League West division title in 1983 and 1993 and the American League Central division title in 2000. The \"curse\" discussion was revived by the national media during the 2005 post-season, when the Sox won their first league championship since 1959 (an even longer wait than before, 46 years). During the ensuing 2005 World Series, the White Sox swept the Houston Astros for their first World Series championship in 88 years (87 if the cancelled 1994 World Series is excluded). Some of this discussion found its way to the official World Series film DVD. For example, White Sox center fielder Aaron Rowand, in an interview for the DVD, compared the 2004 Red Sox with the 2005 White Sox: \"If they could break their 'curse', so could we.\"\n\nIn one of those ways that patterns appear to emerge in sporting events, the White Sox World Series win in 2005, along with the Boston Red Sox win in 2004, symmetrically bookended the two teams' previous World Series winners and the long gaps between, with the Red Sox and White Sox last Series wins having come in 1918 and 1917, respectively.\n\nThere is a large faction of White Sox fans who dismiss the idea of a curse against the White Sox as a ridiculous (yet successful) ploy by the national media to sensationalize the team in efforts for increased ratings, instead attributing their drought to the more obvious reason: team mismanagement. The Comiskeys were very conservative spenders (which many hypothesize to be the reason that the Black Sox scandal even occurred in the first place) and it was not until 1958 that the family gave up majority ownership to Bill Veeck, who was an innovative marketer but lacked sufficient resources to compete with wealthier teams. Ownership then passed to the Allyn brothers, who almost moved the team to Milwaukee while mediocre on-field performance continued. The team was then reacquired by Veeck, who sold it to current majority owner Jerry Reinsdorf, who also owns the NBA's Chicago Bulls on the West Side of town.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "301517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=301517", "title": "Damsel in distress", "text": "Damsel in distress\n\nThe damsel-in-distress, persecuted maiden, or princess in jeopardy is a classic theme in world literature, art, film and video games; most notably in those that have a lot of action. This trope usually involves beautiful, innocent, or helpless young female leads, placed in a dire predicament by a villain, monster or alien, and who requires a male hero to achieve her rescue. Often these young women are stereotyped as very physically weak and almost completely dependent on the male lead. After rescuing her, the hero often obtains her hand in marriage. She has become a stock character of fiction, particularly of melodrama. Though she is usually human, she can also be of any other species, including fictional or folkloric species; and even divine figures such as an angel, spirit, or deity.\n\nThe word \"damsel\" derives from the French \"demoiselle\", meaning \"young lady\", and the term \"damsel in distress\" in turn is a translation of the French \"demoiselle en détresse\". It is an archaic term not used in modern English except for effect or in expressions such as this. It can be traced back to the knight-errant of Medieval songs and tales, who regarded protection of women as an essential part of his chivalric code which includes a notion of honour and nobility. The English term \"damsel in distress\" itself first seems to have appeared in Richard Ames' 1692 poem \"Sylvia’s Complaint of Her Sexes Unhappiness.\"\n\nThe damsel in distress theme featured in the stories of the ancient Greeks. Greek mythology, while featuring a large retinue of competent goddesses, also contains helpless maidens threatened with sacrifice. For example, Andromeda's mother offended Poseidon, who sent a beast to ravage the land. To appease him Andromeda's parents fastened her to a rock in the sea. The hero Perseus slew the beast, saving Andromeda. Andromeda in her plight, chained naked to a rock, became a favorite theme of later painters. This theme of the Princess and dragon is also pursued in the myth of St George.\n\nAnother early example of a damsel in distress is Sita in the ancient Indian epic \"Ramayana\". In the epic, Sita is kidnapped by the villain Ravana and taken to Lanka. Her husband Rama goes on a quest to rescue her, with the help of the monkey-god Hanuman.\n\nEuropean fairy tales frequently feature damsels in distress. Evil witches trapped Rapunzel in a tower, cursed the princess to die in \"Snow White\", and put Sleeping Beauty into a magical sleep. In all of these, a valorous prince comes to the maiden's aid, saves her, and marries her (though Rapunzel is not directly saved by the prince, but instead saves him from blindness after her exile).\n\nThe damsel in distress was an archetypal character of medieval romances, where typically she was rescued from imprisonment in a tower of a castle by a knight-errant. Chaucer's \"The Clerk's Tale\" of the repeated trials and bizarre torments of patient Griselda was drawn from Petrarch. The Emprise de l'Escu vert à la Dame Blanche (founded 1399) was a chivalric order with the express purpose of protecting oppressed ladies.\n\nThe theme also entered the official hagiography of the Catholic Church – most famously in the story of Saint George who saved a princess from being devoured by a dragon. A late addition to the official account of this Saint's life, not attested in the several first centuries when he was venerated, it is nowadays the main act for which Saint George is remembered.\n\nObscure outside Norway is Hallvard Vebjørnsson, the Patron Saint of Oslo, recognised as a martyr after being killed while valiantly trying to defend a woman – most likely a slave – from three men accusing her of theft.\n\nIn the 17th century English ballad \"The Spanish Lady\" (one of several English and Irish songs with that name), a Spanish lady captured by an English captain falls in love with her captor and begs him not to set her free but to take her with him to England, and in this appeal describes herself as \"A lady in distress\".\n\nThe damsel in distress makes her debut in the modern novel as the title character of Samuel Richardson's \"Clarissa\" (1748), where she is menaced by the wicked seducer Lovelace.\n\nReprising her medieval role, the damsel in distress is a staple character of Gothic literature, where she is typically incarcerated in a castle or monastery and menaced by a sadistic nobleman, or members of the religious orders. Early examples in this genre include Matilda in Horace Walpole's \"The Castle of Otranto\", Emily in Ann Radcliffe's \"The Mysteries of Udolpho\", and Antonia in Matthew Lewis' \"The Monk\".\n\nThe perils faced by this Gothic heroine were taken to an extreme by the Marquis de Sade in \"Justine\", who exposed the erotic subtext which lay beneath the damsel-in-distress scenario.\nOne exploration of the theme of the persecuted maiden is the fate of Gretchen in Goethe's \"Faust\". According to the philosopher Schopenhauer:\n\n\"The great Goethe has given us a distinct and visible description of this denial of the will, brought about by great misfortune and by the despair of all deliverance, in his immortal masterpiece Faust, in the story of the sufferings of Gretchen. I know of no other description in poetry. It is a perfect specimen of the second path, which leads to the denial of the will not, like the first, through the mere knowledge of the suffering of the whole world which one acquires voluntarily, but through the excessive pain felt in one's own person. It is true that many tragedies bring their violently willing heroes ultimately to this point of complete resignation, and then the will-to-live and its phenomenon usually end at the same time. But no description known to me brings to us the essential point of that conversion so distinctly and so free from everything extraneous as the one mentioned in Faust\" (The World as Will and Representation, Vol. I, §68)\n\nThe misadventures of the damsel in distress of the Gothic continued in a somewhat caricatured form in Victorian melodrama. According to Michael Booth in his classic study \"English Melodrama\" the Victorian stage melodrama featured a limited number of stock characters: the hero, the villain, the heroine, an old man, an old woman, a comic man and a comic woman engaged in a sensational plot featuring themes of love and murder. Often the good but not very clever hero is duped by a scheming villain, who has eyes on the damsel in distress until fate intervenes to ensure the triumph of good over evil.\n\nSuch melodrama influenced the fledgling cinema industry and led to damsels in distress being the subject of many early silent films, especially those that were made as multi-episode serials. Early examples include \"The Adventures of Kathlyn\" in 1913 and \"The Hazards of Helen\", which ran from 1914 to 1917. The silent movie heroines frequently faced new perils provided by the industrial revolution and catering to the new medium's need for visual spectacle. Here we find the heroine tied to a railway track, burning buildings, and explosions. Sawmills were another stereotypical danger of the industrial age, as recorded in a popular song from a later era:\nDuring the First World War, the imagery of a Damsel in Distress was extensively used in Allied propaganda (see illustrations). Particularly, the Imperial German conquest and occupation of Belgium was commonly referred to as The Rape of Belgium - effectively making British and French soldiers into knights bent on saving that rape victim. This was expressed explicitly in the lyrics of \"Keep the Home Fires Burning\" mentioning British boys as having gone to help a \"Nation in Distress\". \n\nA form of entertainment in which the damsel-in-distress emerged as a stereotype at this time was stage magic. Restraining attractive female assistants and imperiling them with blades and spikes became a staple of 20th century magicians' acts. Noted illusion designer and historian Jim Steinmeyer identifies the beginning of this phenomenon as coinciding with the introduction of the \"sawing a woman in half\" illusion. In 1921 magician P. T. Selbit became the first to present such an act to the public. Steinmeyer observes that: \"Before Selbit's illusion, it was not a cliche that pretty ladies were teased and tortured by magicians. Since the days of Robert-Houdin, both men and women were used as the subjects for magic illusions\". However, changes in fashion and great social upheavals during the first decades of the 20th century made Selbit's choice of \"victim\" both practical and popular. The trauma of war had helped to desensitise the public to violence and the emancipation of women had changed attitudes to them. Audiences were tiring of older, more genteel forms of magic. It took something shocking, such as the horrific productions of the Grand Guignol theatre, to cause a sensation in this age. Steinmeyer concludes that: \"beyond practical concerns, the image of the woman in peril became a specific fashion in entertainment\".\n\nThe damsel-in-distress continued as a mainstay of the comics, film, and television industries throughout the 20th century. Imperiled heroines in need of rescue were a frequent occurrence in black-and-white film serials made by studios such as Columbia Pictures, Mascot Pictures, Republic Pictures, and Universal Studios, and in the 1930s, 40s and early 50s. These serials sometimes drew inspiration for their characters and plots from adventure novels and comic books. Notable examples include the character Nyoka the Jungle Girl, whom Edgar Rice Burroughs created for comic books and who was later adapted into a serial heroine in Republic productions such as \"Perils of Nyoka\" (1942). Additional classic damsels in that mold were Jane Porter, in both the novel and movie versions of \"Tarzan\", and Ann Darrow, as played by Fay Wray in the movie \"King Kong\" (1933), in one of the most iconic instances. The notorious hoax documentary \"Ingagi\" (1930) also featured this idea, and Wray's role was repeated by Jessica Lange and Naomi Watts in remakes. As journalist Andrew Erish has noted: \"Gorillas plus sexy women in peril equals enormous profits\". A small screen iconic portrayal, this time in children's cartoons, was Underdog's girlfriend, Sweet Polly Purebred.\n\nFrequently cited examples of a damsel in distress in comics include Lois Lane, who was eternally getting into trouble and needing to be rescued by Superman, and Olive Oyl, who was in a near-constant state of kidnap, requiring her to be saved by Popeye.\n\nDamsels in distress have been cited as an example of differential treatment of genders in literature, film, and works of art. Feminist criticism of art, film, and literature has often examined gender-oriented characterisation and plot, including the common \"damsel in distress\" trope, as perpetrating regressive and patronizing myths about women. Many modern writers and directors, such as Anita Sarkeesian, Angela Carter and Jane Yolen, have revisited classic fairy tales and \"damsel in distress\" stories or collected and anthologised stories and folk tales that break the \"damsel in distress\" pattern. \n\nWhile late twentieth-century feminist criticism may have highlighted alternatives to the damsel stereotype, the origins of some alternatives are to be found elsewhere. Joseph Campbell's work on comparative mythology has provided a theoretical model for heroes throughout the history of literature, drama, and film, which has been further developed by dramaturgical writers such as Christopher Vogler. These theories suggest that within the underlying story arc of every hero is found an episode known as the ordeal, where the character is almost destroyed. By surviving fear, danger, or torture the hero proves he or she has special qualities and ultimately emerges re-invented to progress to ultimate victory. Within this theory the empowered \"damsel\" can be a female hero rendered powerless and imperilled during her heroic ordeal but who ultimately emerges as a strong figure who claims victory; yet the male and female versions of such ordeal and empowerment still differ at a fundamental level, in that when there is a character doing the rescuing (sometimes referred to as \"help unlooked for\"), he is almost invariably male.\n\nExamples can be found in films that date back to the early days of movie making. One of the films most often associated with the stereotype of the damsel in distress, \"The Perils of Pauline\" (1914), in fact provides at least a partial counterexample, in that Pauline, as played by Pearl White, is a strong character who decides against early marriage in favour of seeking adventure and becoming an author. Despite common belief, the film does not feature scenes with Pauline tied to a railroad track and threatened by a buzzsaw, although such scenes were incorporated into later re-creations and were also featured in other films made in the period around 1914. Academic Ben Singer has contested the idea that these \"serial-queen melodramas\" were male fantasies and has observed that they were marketed heavily at women. The first motion picture serial made in the United States, \"What Happened to Mary?\" (1912), was released to coincide with a serial story of the same name published in McClure's \"Ladies' World\" magazine.\n\nEmpowered damsels were a feature of the serials made in the 1930s and 1940s by studios such as Republic Pictures. The \"cliffhanger\" scenes at the end of episodes provide many examples of female heroines bound and helpless and facing fiendish death traps. But those heroines, as played by actresses such as Linda Stirling and Kay Aldridge, were often strong, assertive women who ultimately played an active part in vanquishing the villains.\n\nC.L. Moore's 1934 story \"Shambleau\" – generally acknowledged as epoch-making in the history of science fiction – begins in what seems a classical damsel in distress situation: the protagonist, space adventurer Northwest Smith, sees a \"sweetly-made girl\" pursued by a lynch mob intent on killing her and intervenes to save her, but finds her not a girl nor a human being at all, but a disguised alien creature, predatory and highly dangerous. Soon, Smith himself needs rescuing and barely escapes with his life.\n\nThese themes have received successive updates in modern-era characters, ranging from 'spy girls' of the 1960s to current movie and television heroines. In her book \"The Devil With James Bond\" (1967) Ann Boyd compared James Bond with an updating of the legend of St George and the \"princess and dragon\" genre, particularly with Dr. No's dragon tank. The damsel in distress theme is also very prominent in \"The Spy Who Loved Me\", where the story is told in the first person by the young woman Vivienne Michel, who is threatened with imminent rape by thugs when Bond kills them and claims her as his reward.\n\nThe female spy Emma Peel in the 1960s British television series \"The Avengers\" was often seen in \"damsel in distress\" situations. The character and her reactions, as portrayed by actress Diana Rigg, differentiated these scenes from other movie and television scenarios where women were similarly imperilled as pure victims or pawns in the plot. A scene with Emma Peel bound and threatened with a death ray in the episode \"From Venus with Love\" is a direct parallel to James Bond's confrontation with a laser in the film \"Goldfinger\". Both are examples of the classic hero's ordeal as described by Campbell and Vogler. The serial heroines and Emma Peel are cited as providing inspiration for the creators of strong heroines in more recent times. Ranging from Joan Wilder in \"Romancing the Stone\" and Princess Leia in \"Star Wars\" to \"post feminist\" icons such as Buffy Summers from \"Buffy the Vampire Slayer\", Xena and from \"\", Sydney Bristow from \"Alias\", Natasha Romanoff from Marvel Cinematic Universe, Kim Possible from the series of the same name, Sarah Connor from Terminator, and Veronica Mars also from the series of the same name.\n\nReflecting these changes, Daphne Blake of the \"Scooby-Doo\" cartoon series (who throughout the series is captured dozens of times, falls through trap doors, etc.) is portrayed in the Scooby-Doo film as a wisecracking feminist heroine (quote: \"I've had it with this damsel in distress thing!\"). The 2009 film \"Sherlock Holmes\" includes a classical damsel in distress episode, where Irene Adler (played by Rachel McAdams) is helplessly bound to a conveyor belt in an industrial slaughterhouse, and is saved from being sawn in half by a chainsaw; yet in other episodes of the same film Adler is strong and assertive – for example, overcoming with contemptuous ease two thugs who sought to rob her (and robbing them instead). In the film's climax it is Adler who saves the British Empire, dismantling at the last moment a device set to poison the entire membership of Parliament.\n\nIn the final scene of the 2007 Walt Disney Pictures film \"Enchanted\" the traditional roles are reversed when male protagonist Robert (Patrick Dempsey) is captured by Queen Narissa (Susan Sarandon) in her dragon form. In a King Kong fashion, she carries him to the top of a New York skyscraper, until Robert's beloved Giselle climbs, sword in hand, to save him.\n\nA similar role reversal is evident in Stieg Larsson's \"The Girl with the Dragon Tattoo\", in whose climatic scene the male protagonist is captured by a mass murderer, locked in an underground torture room, chained, stripped naked, and humiliated when his female partner enters to save him and destroy the villain. Still another example is \"Foxglove Summer\", part of Ben Aaronovitch's \"Rivers of London\" series - where the protagonist Peter Grant is bound and taken captive by the Queen of the Faeries, and it is Grant's girlfriend who comes to rescue him, riding a Steel Horse.\n\nIn Hans Christian Andersen's fairy tale \"The Snow Queen\" (1844), the protagonist Gerda, a little girl, rescues her friend Kai, a little boy, from the Snow Queen. In the 2013 film adaptation \"Frozen\", Gerda and Kai are substituted with the sisters Anna and Elsa respectively.\n\nIn computer and video games, female characters are often cast in the role of the damsel in distress, with their rescue being the objective of the game. Princess Zelda in the early \"The Legend of Zelda\" series and who has been described by Gladys L. Knight in her book \"Female Action Heroes\" as \"perhaps one the most well-known 'damsel in distress' princesses in video game history\", the Sultan's daughter in \"Prince of Persia\", and Princess Peach through much of the \"Mario\" series are paradigmatic examples. According to Salzburge Academy on Media and Global Change, in 1981 Nintendo offered game designer Shigeru Miyamoto to create a new video game for the American market. In the game the hero was Mario, and the objective of the game was to rescue a young princess named Peach. Peach was depicted as having a pink dress and blond hair. The princess was kidnapped and trapped in a castle by the villain Bowser, who is depicted as a turtle. Princess Peach appears in 15 of the main Super Mario games and is kidnapped in 13 of them. The only main games in which Peach was not kidnapped were in the North America release of \"Super Mario Bros. 2\" and \"Super Mario 3D World\", but she was a character that can be played. Zelda became playable in some later games of the \"Legend of Zelda\" series or had the pattern altered.\n\nIn the \"Dragon's Lair\" game series, Princess Daphne is the beautiful daughter of King Aethelred and an unnamed queen. She serves as the series' damsel in distress. Jon M. Gibson of GameSpy called Daphne \"the epitome\" as an example of the trope. She has been the subject of controversy over sexism in video gaming due to her role and sexualization in the games.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40921266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40921266", "title": "Dilbilim Araştırmaları", "text": "Dilbilim Araştırmaları\n\nDilbilim Araştırmaları (\"DAD\"; English: \"Journal of Linguistic Research\") is a peer-reviewed academic journal published by Boğaziçi University Press. The journal covers research on all aspects of linguistics concerning Turkish language.\n\n\"Dilbilim Araştırmaları\" was established in 1990 by linguists in Turkey. The journal has been published by different publishing houses, including Hitit Publishing House and Bizim Büro Publishers. The current publisher is Boğaziçi University Press.\n\nUntil 2008 one volume was published each year. It has been published biannually, specifically in May and in September, since 2009. Both English and Turkish articles are published.\n\nThe founding editors-in-chief were Gül Durmuşoğlu, Kamile İmer, Ahmet Kocaman, and A. Sumru Özsoy. Durmuşoğlu served in the post from 1990 to 1993, İmer, Kocaman, and Özsoy from 1990 to 2011. The current editor of the journal has been Deniz Zeyrek, professor of linguistics at Middle East Technical University, since 2011. \n\nThe University of California digitized some issues of the journal.\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in TÜBİTAK-ULAKBİM SBVT, Linguistic Bibliography, MLA International Bibliography and Ulrich's Periodicals Directory.\n"}
{"id": "53229017", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53229017", "title": "Early Netherlandish Painting (Friedländer)", "text": "Early Netherlandish Painting (Friedländer)\n\nEarly Netherlandish Painting (German: Die altniederländische Malerei) is a pioneering 14-volume series of illustrated books by the German art historian Max Jakob Friedländer (1867–1958). The first volume was published in 1924, and the series ran until 1937. It was the first comprehensive modern art-historical survey of Early Netherlandish painting, a term often used in art history to describe artists of the Low Countries during the 15th- and 16th-century Northern Renaissance.\n\nFriedländer developed an interest in northern art of the period while director of the Kaiser-Friedrich-Museum in the late 1920s and early 1930s. The collection included a large selection of Flemish paintings, including Jan van Eyck's \"Madonna in the Church\", Rogier van der Weyden's \"Miraflores Altarpiece\" and \"Altar of Saint John\", and Hugo van der Goes' \"Adoration of the Maji\". Friedländer was struck by the lack of biographical detail on even the most accomplished of the artists, some of whom were still identified by notnames, the sometimes poorly supported attributions, and general historical neglect.\n\nThe book focuses on establishing biographical details for the painters, attributing individual works, and detailing their major stylistic themes and techniques. The undertaking was extremely difficult, given the scant historical record of even the most significant artists.\n\nThe series was a major influence on Erwin Panofsky's equally seminal \"Early Netherlandish Painting\", which expanded on Friedländer's biographical and stylistic analysis to focus on iconography, intended meaning and historical context.\n\n"}
{"id": "620822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=620822", "title": "Edward Lhuyd", "text": "Edward Lhuyd\n\nEdward Lhuyd (; occasionally written as \"Llwyd\" in recent times, in accordance with Modern Welsh orthography) (1660 – 30 June 1709) was a Welsh naturalist, botanist, linguist, geographer and antiquary. He is also known by the Latinized form of his name, Eduardus Luidius.\n\nLhuyd was born in Loppington, Shropshire, the illegitimate son of Edward Lloyd of Llanforda, Oswestry and Bridget Pryse of Llansantffraid, near Talybont, Cardiganshire, and was a pupil and later a master at Oswestry Grammar School. His family belonged to the gentry of south-west Wales; though well-established, his family was not well-off, and his father experimented with agriculture and industry in a manner that brought him into contact with the new science of the day. Lhuyd attended grammar school in Oswestry and went up to Jesus College, Oxford in 1682, but dropped out before his graduation. In 1684, he was appointed assistant to Robert Plot, the Keeper of the Ashmolean Museum and replaced him as Keeper in 1690; he held this post until 1709.\n\nWhilst employed by the Ashmolean he travelled extensively. A visit to Snowdonia in 1688 allowed him to construct for John Ray's \"Synopsis Methodica Stirpium Britannicorum\" a list of flora local to that region. After 1697, Lhuyd visited every county in Wales, and then travelled to Scotland, Ireland, Cornwall, and Brittany and the Isle of Man. In 1699, with financial aid from his friend Isaac Newton, he published \"Lithophylacii Britannici Ichnographia\", a catalogue of fossils collected from places around England, mostly Oxford, and now held in the Ashmolean.\n\nIn 1701, Lhuyd was made MA \"honoris causa\" by the University of Oxford, and he was elected Fellow of the Royal Society in 1708. Lhuyd died of pleurisy in Oxford in 1709.\n\nHe was responsible for the first scientific description and naming of what we would now recognize as a dinosaur: the sauropod tooth \"Rutellum implicatum\" (Delair and Sarjeant, 2002).\n\nIn the late 17th century, Lhuyd was contacted by a group of scholars, led by John Keigwin of Mousehole, who were trying to preserve and further the Cornish language and he accepted the invitation to travel to Cornwall to study the language. Early Modern Cornish was the subject of a study published by Lhuyd in 1702; it differs from the medieval language in having a considerably simpler structure and grammar.\n\nIn 1707, having been assisted in his research by fellow Welsh scholar Moses Williams, he published the first volume of \"Archaeologia Britannica: an Account of the Languages, Histories and Customs of Great Britain, from Travels through Wales, Cornwall, Bas-Bretagne, Ireland and Scotland\". This book is an important source for its linguistic description of Cornish, but even more so for its understanding of historical linguistics. Some of the ideas commonly attributed to linguists of the nineteenth century have their roots in this work by Lhuyd, who was \"considerably more sophisticated in his methods and perceptions than [Sir William] Jones’’.\n\nLhuyd noted the similarity between the two Celtic language families: Brythonic or P–Celtic (Breton, Cornish and Welsh); and Goidelic or Q–Celtic (Irish, Manx and Scottish Gaelic). He argued that the Brythonic languages originated in Gaul (France), and that the Goidelic languages originated in the Iberian Peninsula. Lhuyd concluded that as the languages had been of Celtic origin, the people who spoke those languages were Celts. From the 18th century, the peoples of Brittany, Cornwall, Ireland, Isle of Man, Scotland and Wales were known increasingly as Celts, and are regarded as the modern Celtic nations today.\n\nThe Snowdon lily (now \"Gagea serotina\") was at one time called \"Lloydia serotina\" after Lhuyd.\n\nCymdeithas Edward Llwyd, the National Naturalists' Society of Wales, is named after him.\n\nOn 9 June 2001 a bronze bust of Lhuyd was unveiled outside the University of Wales's Centre for Advanced Welsh and Celtic Studies in Aberystwyth, immediately adjacent to the National Library of Wales, by Dafydd Wigley, the former leader of Plaid Cymru. The sculptor was John Meirion Morris and the inscription on the plinth, carved by Ieuan Rees, reads (\"linguist, antiquary, naturalist\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "253553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=253553", "title": "Erich Ludendorff", "text": "Erich Ludendorff\n\nAfter the war, Ludendorff became a prominent nationalist leader, and a promoter of the Stab-in-the-back myth, which posited that the German loss in World War I was caused by the betrayal of the German Army by Marxists, Bolsheviks, and Jews who were furthermore responsible for the disadvantageous settlement negotiated for Germany in the Treaty of Versailles. He took part in the failed Kapp Putsch (coup d’état) with Wolfgang Kapp in 1920 and the Beer Hall Putsch of Adolf Hitler in 1923, and in 1925, he ran unsuccessfully for the office of President of Germany against his former superior Hindenburg.\n\nFrom 1924 to 1928, he represented the German Freedom Party in the (legislature). Consistently pursuing a purely military line of thought after the war, Ludendorff developed the theory of \"Total War\", which he published as (\"The Total War\") in 1935. In this work, he argued that the entire physical and moral forces of the nation should be mobilized, because peace was merely an interval between wars. Ludendorff was a recipient of the Grand Cross of the Iron Cross and the Pour le Mérite.\n\nLudendorff was born on 9 April 1865 in near , Province of Posen, Kingdom of Prussia (now County, Poland), the third of six children of August Wilhelm Ludendorff (1833–1905). His father was descended from Pomeranian merchants who had achieved the prestigious status of \"Junker\".\n\nErich's mother, (1840–1914), was the daughter of the noble but impoverished (1804–1868) and his wife (1816–1854), who came from a Germanized Polish landed family on the side of her father (1779–1859). Through 's wife (1793–1862), was a remote descendant of the Counts of , the Dukes of and and the Marquesses and Electors of Brandenburg.\n\nHe had a stable and comfortable childhood, growing up on their small family farm. Erich received his early schooling from his maternal aunt and had a gift for mathematics, as did his younger brother who became a distinguished astronomer. He passed the entrance exam for the Cadet School at with distinction, he was put in a class two years ahead of his age group, and thereafter he was consistently first in his class. (The famous World War II General attended the same Cadet School, which produced many well-trained German officers.) Ludendorff's education continued at the at near Berlin through 1882.\n\nIn 1885, Ludendorff was commissioned as a subaltern into the 57th Infantry Regiment, then at Wesel. Over the next eight years, he was promoted to lieutenant and saw further service in the 2nd Marine Battalion, based at Kiel and Wilhelmshaven, and in the 8th Grenadier Guards at Frankfurt on the Oder. His service reports reveal the highest praise, with frequent commendations. In 1893, he entered the War Academy, where the commandant, General Meckel, recommended him to the General Staff, to which he was appointed in 1894. He rose rapidly and was a senior staff officer at the headquarters of V Corps from 1902 to 1904.\n\nNext he joined the Great General Staff in Berlin, which was commanded by Alfred von Schlieffen, Ludendorff directed the Second or Mobilization Section from 1904–13. Soon he was joined by Max Bauer, a brilliant artillery officer, who became a close friend. \n\nIn 1910 at age 45 \"the 'old sinner', as he liked to hear himself called\" married the daughter of a wealthy factory owner, (1875–1936). They met in a rainstorm when he offered his umbrella. She divorced to marry him, bringing three stepsons and a stepdaughter. Their marriage pleased both families and he was devoted to his stepchildren.\n\nBy 1911, Ludendorff was a full colonel. His section was responsible for writing the mass of detailed orders needed to bring the mobilized troops into position to implement the Plan. For this they covertly surveyed frontier fortifications in Russia, France and Belgium. For instance, in 1911 Ludendorff visited the key Belgian fortress city of Liège.\n\nDeputies of the Social Democratic Party of Germany, which became the largest party in the after the German federal elections of 1912, seldom gave priority to army expenditures, whether to build up its reserves or to fund advanced weaponry such as 's siege cannons. Instead, they preferred to concentrate military spending on the Imperial German Navy. Ludendorff's calculations showed that to properly implement the Schlieffen Plan the Army lacked six corps.\n\nMembers of the General Staff were instructed to keep out of politics and the public eye, but Ludendorff shrugged off such restrictions. With a retired general, August Keim, and the head of the Pan-German League, Heinrich Class, he vigorously lobbied the for the additional men. In 1913 funding was approved for four additional corps but Ludendorff was transferred to regimental duties as commander of the 39th (Lower Rhine) Fusiliers, stationed at Düsseldorf. \"I attributed the change partly for my having pressed for those three additional army corps.\"\n\nBarbara Tuchman characterizes Ludendorff in her book \"The Guns of August\" as Schlieffen's devoted disciple who was a glutton for work and a man of granite character but who was deliberately friendless and forbidding and therefore remained little known or liked. It is true that as his wife testified, \"Anyone who knows Ludendorff knows that he has not a spark of humor...\". He was voluble nonetheless, although he shunned small talk. John Lee, states that while Ludendorff was with his Fusiliers, \"he became the perfect regimental commander ... the younger officers came to adore him.\" His adjutant, Wilhelm Breucker, became a devoted lifelong friend.\n\nAt the outbreak of war in the summer of 1914 Ludendorff was appointed Deputy Chief of Staff to the German Second Army under General Karl von Bülow. His assignment was largely due to his previous work investigating defenses of Liège, Belgium. At the beginning of the Battle of Liège, Ludendorff was an observer with the 14th Brigade, which was to infiltrate the city at night and secure the bridges before they could be destroyed. The brigade commander was killed on 5 August, so Ludendorff led the successful assault to occupy the city and its citadel. In the following days, two of the forts guarding the city were taken by desperate frontal infantry attacks, while the remaining forts were smashed by huge Krupp 42-cm and Austro-Hungarian Skoda 30-cm howitzers. By 16 August, all the forts around Liège had fallen, allowing the German First Army to advance. As the victor of Liège, Ludendorff was awarded Germany's highest military decoration for gallantry, the Pour le Mérite, presented by Kaiser Wilhelm II himself on 22 August.\n\nGerman mobilization earmarked a single army, the Eighth, to defend their eastern frontier. Two Russian armies invaded East Prussia earlier than expected, the Eighth Army commanders panicked and were fired by \"OHL\", , German Supreme Headquarters. \"OHL\" assigned Ludendorff as the new chief of staff, while the War Cabinet chose a retired general, Paul von Hindenburg, as commander. They first met on their private train heading east. They agreed that they must annihilate the nearest Russian army before they tackled the second. On arrival, they discovered that General Max Hoffmann had already shifted much of the 8th Army by rail to the south to do just that, in an amazing feat of logistical planning. Nine days later the Eighth Army surrounded most of a Russian army at Tannenberg, taking 92,000 prisoners in one of the great victories in German history. Twice during the battle Ludendorff wanted to break off, fearing that the second Russian army was about to strike their rear, but Hindenburg held firm.\n\nThen they turned on the second invading army in the Battle of the Masurian Lakes; it fled with heavy losses to escape encirclement. During the rest of 1914, commanding an Army Group, they staved off the projected invasion of German Silesia by dexterously moving their outnumbered forces into Russian Poland, fighting the battle of the Vistula River, which ended with a brilliantly executed withdrawal during which they destroyed the Polish railway lines and bridges needed for an invasion. When the Russians had repaired most of the damage the Germans struck their flank in the battle of Łódź, where they almost surrounded another Russian Army. Masters of surprise and deft maneuver, they argued that if properly reinforced they could trap the entire Russian army in Poland. During the winter of 1914–15 they lobbied passionately for this strategy, but were rebuffed by \"OHL\".\n\nEarly in 1915 they surprised the Russian army that still held a toehold in East Prussia by attacking in a snowstorm and surrounding it in the Second Battle of the Masurian Lakes. \"OHL\" then transferred Ludendorff, but Hindenburg's personal plea to the Kaiser reunited them. Erich von Falkenhayn, supreme commander at \"OHL\", came east to attack the flank of the Romanian army that was pushing through the Carpathian passes towards Hungary. Employing overwhelming artillery, the Germans and Austro-Hungarians broke through the line between and and kept pushing until the Russians were driven out of most of Galicia, the Austro-Hungarian southern part of partitioned Poland. During this advance Falkenhayn rejected schemes to try to cut off the Russians in Poland, preferring direct frontal attacks. Outgunned, during the summer of 1915 the Russian commander Grand Duke Nicholas shortened his lines by withdrawing from most of Poland, destroying railroads, bridges, and many buildings while driving 743,000 Poles, \n350,000 Jews, 300,000 Lithuanians and 250,000 Latvians into Russia.\nDuring the winter of 1915–16 Ludendorff's headquarters was in Kaunas. They occupied present-day Lithuania, western Latvia, and north eastern Poland, an area almost the size of France. Ludendorff demanded Germanization of the conquered territories and far-ranging annexations, offering land to German settlers; \"see \". Far reaching plans envisioned Courland and Lithuania turned into border states ruled by German military governor commanders answerable only to the German Emperor. He proposed massive annexations and colonisation in Eastern Europe in the event of the victory of the German Reich, and was one of the main supporters of the Polish Border Strip. Ludendorff planned to combine German settlement and Germanisation in conquered areas with expulsions of native populations; and envisioned an eastern German empire whose resources would be used in future war with Great Britain and United States Ludendorff's plans went as far as making Crimea a German colony As to the various nations and ethnic groups in conquered territories, Ludendorff believed they were \"incapable of producing real culture\" \n\nOn 16 March 1916 the Russians, now with adequate supplies of cannons and shells, attacked parts of the new German defenses, intending to penetrate at two points and then to pocket the defenders. They attacked almost daily until the end of the month, but the Lake Naroch Offensive failed, \"choked in swamp and blood\".\n\nThe Russians did better attacking the Austro-Hungarians in the south; the Brusilov Offensive cracked their lines with a well-prepared surprise wide-front attack led by well-schooled assault troops. The breakthrough was finally stemmed by Austro-Hungarian troops recalled from Italy stiffened with German advisers and reserves. In July, Russian attacks on the Germans in the north were beaten back. On 27 July 1916 Hindenburg was given command of all troops on the Eastern Front from the Baltic to Brody in the Ukraine. They visited their new command on a special train, and then set up headquarters in Brest-Litovsk. By August 1916 their front was holding everywhere.\n\nIn the West in 1916 the Germans attacked unsuccessfully at Verdun and soon were reeling under British and French blows along the Somme. Ludendorff's friends at \"OHL\", led by Max Bauer, lobbied for him relentlessly. The balance was tipped when Romania entered the war, thrusting into Hungary. Falkenhayn was replaced as Chief of the General Staff by Field Marshal Hindenburg on 29 August 1916. Ludendorff was his chief of staff as first Quartermaster general, with the stipulation that he would have joint responsibility. He was promoted to General of the Infantry. Chancellor Bethmann-Hollweg warned the War Cabinet: \"You don't know Ludendorff, who is only great at a time of success. If things go badly he loses his nerve.\" \nTheir first concern was the sizable Romanian Army, so troops sent from the Western Front checked Romanian and Russian incursions into Hungary. Then Romania was invaded from the south by German, Austro-Hungarian, Bulgarian, and Ottoman troops commanded by August von Mackensen and from the north by a German and Austro-Hungarian army commanded by Falkenhayn. Bucharest fell in December 1916. According to Mackensen, Ludendorff's distant management consisted of \"floods of telegrams, as superfluous as they were offensive.\"\n\nWhen sure that the Romanians would be defeated \"OHL\" moved west, retaining the previous staff except for the operations officer, blamed for Verdun. They toured the Western Front meeting and evaluating commanders, learning about their problems and soliciting their opinions. At each meeting Ludendorff did most of the commander's talking. There would be no further attacks at Verdun and the Somme would be defended by revised tactics that exposed fewer men to British shells. A new backup defensive line would be built, like the one they had constructed in the east. The Allies called the new fortifications the Hindenburg Line. The German goal was victory, which they defined as a Germany with extended borders that could be more easily defended in the next war.\n\nHindenburg was given titular command over all of the forces of the Central Powers. Ludendorff's hand was everywhere. Every day he was on the telephone with the staffs of their armies and the Army was deluged with \"Ludendorff's paper barrage\" of orders, instructions and demands for information. His finger extended into every aspect of the German war effort. He issued the two daily communiques, and often met with the newspaper and newsreel reporters. Before long the public idolized him as their Army's brain.\n\nLudendorff had a goal: \"One thing was certain the power must be in my hands.\" As stipulated by the Constitution of the German Empire the government was run by civil servants appointed by the Kaiser. Confident that army officers were superior to civilians, \"OHL\" volunteered to oversee the economy: procurement, raw materials, labor, and food. Bauer, with his industrialist friends, knew exactly what should be done, beginning by setting overambitious targets for military production in what they called the Hindenburg Program. Ludendorff enthusiastically participated in meetings on economic policy loudly, sometimes pummeling the table with his fists. Implementation of the Program was assigned to General Groener, a staff officer who had directed the Field Railway Service effectively. His office was in the War Ministry, not in \"OHL\" as Ludendorff had wanted. Therefore, he assigned staff officers to most of the government ministries, so he knew what was going on and could press his demands.\n\nWar industry's major problem was the scarcity of skilled workers, therefore 125,000 men were released from the armed forces and trained workers were no longer conscripted. \"OHL\" wanted to enroll most German men and women into national service, but the Reichstag legislated that only males 17–60 were subject to \"patriotic service\" and refused to bind war workers to their jobs. Groener realized that they needed the support of the workers, so he insisted that union representatives be included on industrial dispute boards. He also advocated an excess profits tax. The industrialists were incensed. On 16 August 1917 Ludendorff telegraphed an order reassigning Groener to command the 33rd Infantry Division. Overall, \"unable to control labour and unwilling to control industry, the army failed miserably\" (actually the government did control industry with its edicts and orders — and the result was disaster). To the public it seemed that Ludendorff was running the nation as well as the war. According to Ludendorff, \"the authorities ... represented me as a dictator\". He would not become Chancellor because the demands for running the war were too great. The historian Frank Tipton argues that while not technically a dictator, Ludendorff was \"unquestionably the most powerful man in Germany\" in 1917–18.\n\n\"OHL\" did nothing to mitigate the food disaster: despite the blockade everyone could have been fed adequately, but supplies were not managed effectively or fairly. In Spring 1918 half of all the meat, eggs and fruit consumed in Berlin were sold on the black market.\n\nThe navy advocated unrestricted submarine warfare, which would surely bring the United States into the war. The Kaiser asked his commanders to listen to the warnings of his friend, the eminent chemist Walther Nernst, who knew America well. Ludendorff promptly ended the meeting, it was \"incompetent nonsense with which a civilian was wasting his time.\" Unrestricted submarine warfare began in February 1917, with \"OHL\"’s strong support. This fatal mistake reflected poor military judgment in uncritically accepting the Navy’s contention that there were no countermeasures, like convoying, and confident that the American armed forces were too feeble to fight effectively. Ultimately Germany was at war with 27 nations.\n\nIn the spring of 1917 the Reichstag passed a resolution for peace without annexations or indemnities. They would be content with the successful defensive war undertaken in 1914. \"OHL\" was unable to defeat the resolution or to have it substantially watered down. The commanders despised Chancellor Bethmann-Hollweg as weak, so they forced his resignation by repeatedly threatening to resign themselves, despite the Kaiser's admonition that this was not their business. He was replaced by a minor functionary, Georg Michaelis, the food minister, who announced that he would deal with the resolution as \"in his own fashion\". Despite this put-down, the Reichstag voted the financial credits needed for continuing the war.\n\nLudendorff insisted on the huge territorial losses forced on the Russians in the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk, even though this required that a million German soldiers remain in the east. During the peace negotiations with the Romanians his representative kept demanding the economic concessions coveted by the German industrialists. The commanders kept blocking attempts to frame a plausible peace offer to the western powers by insisting on borders expanded for future defense. Ludendorff regarded the Germans as the \"master race\" and after victory planned to settle ex-soldiers in the Baltic states and in Alsace Lorraine, where they would take over property seized from the French. One after another \"OHL\" toppled government ministers they regarded as weak.\n\nIn contrast to \"OHL's\" questionable interventions in politics and diplomacy, their armies continued to excel. The commanders would agree on what was to be done and then Ludendorff and the \"OHL\" staff produced the mass of orders specifying exactly what was to be accomplished. On the western front they stopped packing defenders in the front line, which reduced losses to enemy artillery. They issued a directive on elastic defense, in which attackers who penetrated a lightly held front line entered a battle zone in which they were punished by artillery and counterattacks. It remained German Army doctrine through World War II; schools taught the new tactics to all ranks. Its effectiveness is illustrated by comparing the first half of 1916 in which 77 German soldiers died or went missing for every 100 British to the second half when 55 Germans were lost for every 100 British.\n\nIn February 1917, sure that the new French commander General Robert Nivelle would attack and correctly foreseeing that he would try to pinch off the German salient between Arras and Noyon, they withdrew to the segment of the Hindenburg line across the base of the salient, leaving the ground they gave up as a depopulated waste land, in . The Nivelle Offensive in April 1917 was blunted by mobile defense in depth. Many French units mutinied, though \"OHL\" never grasped the extent of the disarray. \nThe British supported their allies with a successful attack near Arras. Their major triumph was capturing Vimy Ridge, using innovative tactics in which infantry platoons were subdivided into specialist groups. The Ridge gave the British artillery observers superb views of the German line but elastic defense prevented further major gains. \nThe British had another success in June 1917 when a meticulously planned attack, beginning with the detonation of mines containing more high explosive than ever fired before, took the Messines Ridge in Flanders. This was a preface to the British drive, beginning at the end of July 1917, toward the Passchendaele Ridge, intended as a first step in retaking the Belgian coast line. At first the defense was directed by General von Lossberg, a pioneer in defense in depth, but when the British adjusted their tactics Ludendorff took over day by day control. The British finally took the Ridge, it was impossible to stop determined attacks that inched forward for preset, limited gains, but the British paid a heavy price.\n\nLudendorff worried about declining morale, so in July 1917 \"OHL\" established a propaganda unit. In October 1917 they began mandatory patriotic lectures to the troops, who were assured that if the war was lost they would \"become slaves of international capital\". The lecturers were to \"ensure that a fight is kept up against all agitators, croakers and weaklings\". \nFollowing the overthrow of the Tsar, the new Russian government launched the Kerensky Offensive in July 1917 attacking the Austro-Hungarian lines in Galicia. After minor successes the Russians were driven back and many of their soldiers refused to fight. The counterattack was halted only after the line was pushed eastwards. The Germans capped the year in the East by capturing the strong Russian fortress of Riga in September 1917, starting with a brief, overwhelming artillery barrage using many gas shells then followed by infiltrating infantry. The Bolsheviks seized power and soon were at the peace table.\n\nTo bolster the wobbling Austro-Hungarian government, the Germans provided some troops and led a joint attack in Italy in October. They sliced through the Italian lines in the mountains at Caporetto. Two hundred and fifty thousand Italians were captured and the rest of Italian Army was forced to retreat to the Grappa-Piave defensive line.\n\nOn 20 November 1917 the British achieved a total surprise by attacking at Cambrai. A short, intense bombardment preceded an attack by tanks which led the infantry through the German wire. It was Ludendorff's 52nd birthday, but he was too upset to attend the celebratory dinner. The British were not organized to exploit their break-through, and German reserves counterattacked, in some places driving the British back beyond their starting lines. The local German commander had not implemented defense in depth. \n\nAt the beginning of 1918 almost a million munition workers struck; one demand was peace without annexations. \"OHL\" ordered that all strikers fit to bear arms' be sent to the front, thereby degrading military service.\"\n\nWith Russia out of the war, the Germans outnumbered the Allies on the Western Front. After extensive consultations, \"OHL\" planned a series of attacks to drive the British out of the war. During the winter all ranks were schooled in the innovative tactics proven at Caporetto and Riga. The first attack, Operation Michael, was on 21 March 1918 near Cambrai. After an effective hurricane bombardment coordinated by Colonel Bruchmüller, they slashed through the British lines, surmounting the obstacles that had thwarted their enemies for three years. On the first day they occupied as large an area as the Allies had won on the Somme after 140 days. The Allies were aghast, but it was not the triumph \"OHL\" had hoped for: they had planned another Tannenberg by surrounding tens of thousands of British troops in the Cambrai salient, but had been thwarted by stout defense and fighting withdrawal. They lost as many men as the defenders; the first day was the bloodiest of the war. Among the dead was Ludendorff’s oldest stepson, a younger had been killed earlier. They were unable to cut any vital railway. When Ludendorff motored near the front he was displeased by seeing how: \"The numerous slightly wounded made things difficult by the stupid and displeasing way in which they hurried to the rear.\" The Americans doubled the number of troops being sent to France.\n\nTheir next attack was in Flanders. Again they broke through, advancing , and forcing the British to give back all of the ground that they had won the preceding year after weeks of battle. But the Germans were stopped short of the rail junction that was their goal. Next, to draw French reserves south, they struck along the . In their most successful attack yet they advanced on the first day, crossing the Marne but stopping from Paris. But each triumph weakened their army and its morale. From 20 March 1918 to 25 June the German front lengthened from to .\nThen they struck near Reims, to seize additional railway lines for use in the salient, but were foiled by brilliant French elastic tactics. Undeterred, on 18 July 1918 Ludendorff, still \"aggressive and confident\", traveled to Flanders to confer about the next attack there. A telephone call reported that the French and Americans led by a mass of tanks had smashed through the right flank of their salient pointing toward Paris, on the opening day of the Battle of Soissons. Everyone present realized that surely they had lost the war. Ludendorff was shattered. \n\n\"OHL\" began to withdraw step by step to new defensive lines, first evacuating all of their wounded and supplies. Ludendorff's communiques, which hitherto had been largely factual, now distorted the news, for instance claiming that American troops had to be herded onto troop ships by special police.\n\nOn 8 August 1918 they were completely surprised at Amiens when British tanks broke through the defenses and intact German formations surrendered. To Ludendorff it was the \"black day in the history of the German Army\". The German retreats continued, pressed by Allied attacks. \"OHL\" still vigorously opposed offering to give up the territory they desired in France and Belgium, so the German government was unable to make a plausible peace proposal.\n\nLudendorff became increasingly cantankerous, railing at his staff without cause, publicly accusing the field marshal of talking nonsense, and sometimes bursting into tears. Bauer wanted him replaced, but instead Hochheimer was brought to \"OHL\", he had worked closely with Ludendorff in Poland during the winter of 1915–16 on plans to bring in German colonists, before the war he had a practice in nervous diseases. The doctor \"spoke as a friend and he listened as a friend\", convincing Ludendorff that he could not work effectively with one hour of sleep a night and that he must relearn how to relax. After a month away from headquarters his patient had recovered from the severest symptoms of battle fatigue.\n\nOn 29 September 1918 Ludendorff and Hindenburg told an incredulous Kaiser that they must have an immediate armistice. A new Chancellor, Prince Maximilian of Baden, approached President Woodrow Wilson but his terms were stiff and the Army fought on. The chancellor told the Kaiser that he and his cabinet would resign unless Ludendorff was removed, but that Hindenburg must remain to hold the army together. The Kaiser called his commanders in, curtly accepting Ludendorff's resignation and then rejecting Hindenburg's. Ludendorff would not accompany the field marshal back to headquarters, \"I refused to ride with you because you have treated me so shabbily\".\n\nLudendorff had assiduously sought all of the credit, now he was rewarded with all of the blame. Widely despised, and with revolution breaking out, he was hidden by his brother and a network of friends until he slipped out of Germany disguised in blue spectacles and a false beard and fake Finnish passport settling in a Swedish admirer's country home, until the Swedish government asked him to leave in February 1919. In seven months he wrote two volumes of detailed memoirs. Friends, led by Breucker, provided him with documents and negotiated with publishers. Groener (who is not mentioned in the book) characterized it as a showcase of his \"caesar-mania\". He was a brilliant general, according to Wheeler-Bennett he was \"certainly one of the greatest routine military organizers that the world has ever seen\", but he was a ruinous political meddler. The influential military analyst Hans Delbrück concluded that \"The Empire was built by and Bismarck, destroyed by Tirpitz and Ludendorff.\"\n\nIn exile, Ludendorff wrote numerous books and articles about the German military's conduct of the war while forming the foundation for the , the \"stab-in-the-back theory,\" for which he is considered largely responsible. Ludendorff was convinced that Germany had fought a defensive war and, in his opinion, that Kaiser Wilhelm II had failed to organize a proper counter-propaganda campaign or provide efficient leadership.\n\nLudendorff was extremely suspicious of the Social Democrats and leftists, whom he blamed for the humiliation of Germany through the Versailles Treaty. Ludendorff claimed that he paid close attention to the business element (especially the Jews), and saw them turn their backs on the war effort by — as he saw it — letting profit, rather than patriotism, dictate production and financing.\n\nAgain focusing on the left, Ludendorff was appalled by the strikes that took place towards the end of the war and the way that the home front collapsed before the military front did, with the former poisoning the morale of soldiers on temporary leave. Most importantly, Ludendorff felt that the German people as a whole had underestimated what was at stake in the war; he was convinced that the Entente had started the war and was determined to dismantle Germany completely.\n\nLudendorff wrote:\nLudendorff returned to Berlin in February 1919. Staying at the Adlon Hotel, he talked with another resident, Sir Neill Malcolm, the head of the British Military Mission. After Ludendorff presented his excuses for the German defeat Malcolm said \"you mean that you were stabbed in the back?\", ironically coining a key catchphrase for the German right-wing.\n\nOn 12 March 1920 5,000 troops under the command of Walther von Lüttwitz marched on the Chancellery, forcing the government led by Friedrich Ebert and Gustav Bauer to flee the city. The putschists proclaimed a new government with a right-wing politician, Wolfgang Kapp as new \"chancellor\". Ludendorff and Max Bauer were part of the putsch. The Kapp Putsch was soon defeated by a general strike that brought Berlin to a standstill. The leaders fled, Ludendorff to Bavaria, where a right-wing coup had succeeded. He published two volumes of annotated and in a few instances pruned documents and commentaries documenting his war service. He reconciled with Hindenburg, who began to visit every year.\n\nIn May 1923 Ludendorff had an agreeable first meeting with Adolf Hitler, and soon he had regular contacts with National Socialists. On 8 November 1923, the Bavarian Gustav von Kahr was addressing a jammed meeting in a large beer hall, the . Hitler, waving a pistol, jumped onto the stage, announcing that the national revolution was underway. The hall was occupied by armed men who covered the audience with a machine gun, the first move in the Beer Hall Putsch. Hitler announced that he would lead the Government and Ludendorff would command the army. He addressed the now enthusiastically supportive audience and then spent the night in the War Ministry, unsuccessfully trying to obtain the army's backing. \n\nThe next morning 3,000 armed Nazis formed outside of the and marched into central Munich, the leaders just behind the flag bearers. They were blocked by a cordon of police, firing broke out for less than a minute. Most of the Nazi leaders were hit or dropped to the ground. Ludendorff and his adjutant Major Streck marched to the police line where they pushed aside the rifle barrels. He was respectfully arrested. He was indignant when sent home while the other leaders remained in custody. Four police officers and 14 Nazis had been killed, including Ludendorff's servant.\n\nThey were tried in early 1924. Ludendorff was acquitted, but Heinz was convicted of chauffeuring him, given a one-year suspended sentence and fined 1,000 marks. Hitler went to prison but was released after nine months. Ludendorff's 60th birthday was celebrated by massed bands and a large torchlight parade. In 1924, he was elected to the Reichstag as a representative of the NSFB (a coalition of the German Freedom Party (DVFP) and members of the Nazi Party), serving until 1928. At around this time, he founded the Tannenberg League, a German nationalist organisation which was both anti-Semitic and anti-Catholic, and published literature espousing conspiracy theories involving Jews, Catholics – especially Jesuits – and Freemasons.\n\nAs his views became more extreme under the influence of his wife, Mathilde von Kemnitz, Ludendorff gradually began to part company with Hitler, who was surreptitiously working to undermine the reputation of his one serious rival for the leadership of the extreme right in Germany. Nonetheless, Ludendorff was persuaded to run for President of the Republic in the March 1925 election as the Nazi Party candidate, receiving only a pitiful 1.1 per cent of the vote; there is some evidence that Hitler himself persuaded Ludendorff to run, knowing that the results would be humiliating. \n\nNo one had a majority in the initial round of the election, so a second round was needed; Hindenburg entered the race and was narrowly elected. Ludendorff was so humiliated by what he saw as a betrayal by his old friend that he broke off relations with Hindenburg, and in 1927 refused to even stand beside the field marshal at the dedication of the Tannenberg memorial. He attacked Hindenburg abusively for not having acted in a \"nationalistic soldier-like fashion\". The Berlin-based liberal newspaper states in its article \"Ludendorff's hate tirades against Hindenburg — Poisonous gas from Hitler's camp\" that Ludendorff was, as of 29 March 1930, deeply grounded in Nazi ideology.\n\nTipton notes that Ludendorff was a social Darwinist who believed that war was the \"foundation of human society,\" and that military dictatorship was the normal form of government in a society in which every resource must be mobilized. The historian Margaret L. Anderson notes that after the war, Ludendorff wanted Germany to go to war against all of Europe, and that he became a pagan worshipper of the Nordic god Wotan (Odin); he detested not only Judaism, but also Christianity, which he regarded as a weakening force.\n\nLudendorff divorced and married his second wife Mathilde von Kemnitz (1877–1966) in 1926. They published books and essays to prove that the world's problems were the result of Christianity, especially the Jesuits and Catholics, but also conspiracies by Jews and the Freemasons. They founded the (Society for the Knowledge of God), a small and rather obscure esoterical society of Theists that survives to this day. He launched several abusive attacks on his former superior Hindenburg for not having acted in a \"nationalistic soldier-like fashion\".\n\nBy the time Hitler came to power, Ludendorff was no longer sympathetic to him. The Nazis distanced themselves from Ludendorff because of his eccentric conspiracy theories. \n\nOn 30 January 1933, the occasion of Hitler's appointment as Chancellor by President Hindenburg, Ludendorff sent the following telegram to Hindenburg: \n\nSome historians consider this text to be a forgery. In an attempt to regain Ludendorff's favor, Hitler arrived unannounced at Ludendorff's home on his 70th birthday in 1935 to promote him to field marshal. Infuriated, Ludendorff allegedly rebuffed Hitler by telling him: \"An officer is named General Field-Marshal on the battlefield! Not at a birthday tea-party in the midst of peace.\" He wrote two further books on military themes, demonstrating that he still could think coherently about war despite his political and social prejudices.\n\nLudendorff died of liver cancer in the private clinic in Munich, on 20 December 1937 at the age of 72. He was given — against his explicit wishes — a state funeral organized and attended by Hitler, who declined to speak at his eulogy. He was buried in the in Tutzing in Bavaria.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32200266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32200266", "title": "Feminist views on BDSM", "text": "Feminist views on BDSM\n\nFeminist views on BDSM vary widely from rejection to acceptance. BDSM refers to bondage and discipline, dominance and submission, and Sado-Masochism. In order to evaluate its perception, two polarizing frameworks are compared. Some feminists, such as Andrea Dworkin and Susan Griffin, have stated that they regard BDSM as a form of woman-hating violence, while other feminists, such as Gayle Rubin and Patrick Califia, perceive BDSM as a valid form of expression of female sexuality. Some lesbian feminists practice BDSM and regard it as part of their sexual identity.\n\nThe historical relationship between feminists and BDSM practitioners has been controversial. The two most extreme positions reflect those who believe that feminism and BDSM are mutually exclusive beliefs, and those who believe that BDSM practices are a fundamental expression of sexual freedom. Much of the controversy is left over from the feminist sex wars (acrimonious debates over sex issues) and the battle between the anti-pornography feminists and the pro-pornography feminists.\n\nIn the 1970s, many different divisions of the feminist movement emerged. As Andrew McBride writes, \"During the 1970s, much of the discourse in the feminist movement was dominated by discussions of lesbian feminism. Toward the end of the decade, however, the conversations within feminism began to focus on a new topic: sexuality. This included sexuality of all types, not just lesbian sexuality. Included in the discussions and debates were heterosexuality, pornography, sadomasochism, butch/femme roles, and sex work.\" The Lavender Menace and their concept of the woman identified woman and the Women Against Violence in Pornography and Media both came out strongly believing that engaging in BDSM play was contradictory to being a feminist. Samois, a San Francisco-based lesbian BDSM group, maintained that feminists could engage in BDSM without being hypocritical.\n\nDuring the 80s, this sex war continued and reached the attention of several academics who attempted to dissect why such a division had occurred. Ardill and O'Sullivan explained the history using the conflict in the London Lesbian and Gay Center as an example. Similar conflicts were continuations of the issues in the 1970s.\nThe Lesbian Sex Mafia founded by Dorothy Allison appeared in New York advocating sex positive feminism and promoting the idea that all women had the right to explore their sexuality in whatever ways they saw fit. The controversial 1982 Barnard Conference on Sexuality, which brought these issues to the attention of academic feminists, is often regarded as officially launching the feminist sex wars.\n\nIn the 1990s feminist scholars continued to research and apply different feminist academic frameworks to the questions of sexuality and BDSM in an effort to find a way to bridge the gap between the two groups. Hopkins, in 1994 applied critical analysis to the feminist viewpoints against Sadomasochistic acts. She takes each argument put forth against BDSM practice by women and answers it from within a feminist framework. In the end, she points out that the issue is not as concrete as feminists may try and paint it and that they may need to examine the concepts in more detail. In 1995, Teresa Hornsby also applied feminist frameworks to the subject of BDSM and came down on the side that the two were not contradictory. Hornsby went further to examine whether or not violence itself was only a masculine activity.\n\nAfter 2000, advances in technology were opening up the world to more people and BDSM started coming out more and more in popular culture. Maneesha Deckha applied a postcolonial feminist approach where she suggests treating BDSM as a cultural practice as a means to put to rest the divide between feminists and BDSM practitioners. She came to the conclusion as did those in the 90's that perhaps a more in depth look is needed to determine if feminist viewpoints on BDSM hold up under closer scrutiny. In addition, Deckha did some work on the concepts of consent and the legality of BDSM. Specifically addressing the question on whether or not women can give consent and whether BDSM activities should be regulated in the context of violence or the context of sexuality. One point she makes is if legislation is made in the context of regulating it around sex then aren't we simply giving the patriarchy further control over women's expression of sexual identity.\n\nCurrent feminist viewpoints on BDSM practices continue to be controversial and at odds with one another. Some feminists view SM as an ideal feminist expression of sexual freedom while other feminists say that BDSM, and more particularly SM, reinforce patriarchy and that these practices are contradictory to feminism. Feminists who view BDSM as contradictory to feminism also often believe that women who engage in BDSM practices, and specifically those who play a submissive role in them, have been led by sexist power structures to believe that they enjoy these acts. This feminist viewpoint argues that the individuals who enjoy playing a submissive role in the bedroom only enjoy it because they have been led to believe that it is what is expected of them and that they should enjoy it. This viewpoint argues that if these individuals, particularly women, were able to explore their sexual desires without the influence of a sexist power structure that they would come to very different conclusions about what they enjoy.\n\nLesbian SM (Sadism, Submission, Masochism) has been problematic in the analysis of feminist viewpoints on BDSM, especially with regards to whether or not lesbians are recreating patriarchal structures. Many academic critics do not even tackle the idea of lesbian BDSM. Maneesha Deckha in her article, \"Pain, pleasure, and consenting women: Exploring feminist responses to S/M and its legal regulation in Canada through Jelinek's \"The Piano Teacher\" admitted that covering lesbian BDSM made her theories too convoluted to see. Such lesbian erasure has been fairly common in second and third wave feminism as lesbian identity has frequently been subsumed in feminist identity. This concept is explained by Calhoun in \"The Gender Closet: Lesbian disappearance under the sign 'woman'\" Some, such as Deckha, believe that although lesbians do practice BDSM, they are doing so in an effort to merely recreate the patriarchal power structure in the rest of society. Be it through domination and submission exchange of power, or the butch/femme dynamic, lesbians who interact in this way are convincing themselves that they are outside of patriarchy, when in reality they are reinforcing it because their sexuality is trapped within the patriarchal structure, true consent cannot occur.\n\nOthers, such as Hornsby, believe that lesbians can in fact practice BDSM without recreating patriarchal systems because they have already declared themselves to be outside of those systems.\n\nFeminist writer Clarisse Thorn released a book in 2012 called \"The S&M Feminist,\" in which she often discusses her own experiences. The high-profile feminist anthology \"Yes Means Yes,\" published in 2008, also featured an essay about BDSM and feminism by Stacey May Fowles.\n\nJessica Wakeman wrote of her own experience with SM activities in a follow-up interview after her article First Time For Everything: Getting Spanked was published in 2009. At the time of the interview in October, 2010, Wakeman had been writing about feminist issues, including feminism and media criticism, feminism and politics, and feminism and sex for about eight years and considered herself to be a rather active feminist.\n\nWakeman discussed how she is able to enjoy spanking play and being dominated and still be a feminist. She discussed how spanking play is a fetish and is no different from other fetishes that individuals have, even though it does involve being hit by one's partner. She also commented that it is important to remember that when an individual is involved with BDSM play, such as spanking, if it is true BDSM play it has been discussed by both partners and either of them can stop the play at any time with a safe word. Furthermore, a real physically or emotionally abusive relationship is not safe and consensual like BDSM play is. There is a difference between what happens in the bedroom and what happens in real life. Wakeman wrote that she is able to enjoy things in the context of sex or flirting that she wouldn't want to happen in her day-to-day life.\n\nLike other feminist BDSM practitioners, Wakeman rejects the argument that women are taught what they enjoy and led to be submissive by a dominant sexist power structure. Within BDSM communities, it is often said that submissive practitioners are the real dominants because they have the ultimate control over the situation with a safe word.\n\n"}
{"id": "470612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=470612", "title": "Flag of Florida", "text": "Flag of Florida\n\nThe flag of Florida consists of a red saltire on a white background, with the state seal superimposed on the center. The design was approved by popular referendum November 6, 1900. The flag's current design has been in use since May 21, 1985, after the state seal was graphically altered and officially sanctioned for use by state officials.\n\nIn 2001, a survey conducted by the North American Vexillological Association (NAVA) placed Florida's flag 34th in design quality out of the 72 Canadian provincial, U.S. state and U.S. territorial flags ranked.\n\nSpain was a dynastic union and federation of kingdoms when Juan Ponce de León claimed Florida on April 2, 1513. Several banners or standards were used during the first period of settlement and governance in Florida, such as the royal standard of the Crown of Castile in Pensacola and the Cross of Burgundy in St. Augustine. As with other Spanish territories, the Burgundian saltire was generally used in Florida to represent collective Spanish sovereignty between 1513 and 1821.\n\nIn 1763, Spain passed control of Florida to Great Britain via the Treaty of Paris. Great Britain used the original union flag with the white diagonal stripes in Florida during this brief period. The British also divided the Florida territory into East Florida, with its capital at St. Augustine, and West Florida, with its capital at Pensacola. The border was the Apalachicola River.\n\nSpain regained control of Florida in 1783. In 1785, King Charles III chose a new naval and battle flag for Spain, which was now a more centralized nation-state, and its territories. This flag, a tri-band of red-gold-red, was used along with the Burgundian saltire in the provinces of East and West Florida until 1821, when the Florida provinces joined the United States.\n\nBetween 1821 and 1861, Florida had no official flag. after Florida seceded from the Union and declared itself a \"sovereign and independent nation\", reaffirming the preamble in the Constitution of 1838. This flag was also used when Floridian forces took control of U.S. forts and a navy yard in Pensacola. Col. William H. Chase was Commander of Floridian troops and the flag is also referred to as the Chase Flag. Later in the year the Florida Legislature passed a law authorizing Governor Perry to design an official flag. His design was the tri-band of the Confederacy but with the blue field extending down and the new seal of Florida within the blue field.\n\nAs a member of the Confederacy, Florida saw use of all three versions of the Confederate flag. The Bonnie Blue Flag, previously the flag of the short-lived Republic of West Florida, was briefly used as an unofficial flag of the Confederacy. It features a single five-point star centered in a blue background.\n\nBetween 1868 and 1900, the flag of Florida was simply the state seal on a white background. In a discrepancy, however, a later version of the state seal depicts a steamboat with a white flag that includes a red saltire, similar to Florida's current flag. In the late 1890s, Governor Francis P. Fleming advocated that St. Andrew's Cross be added so that it would not appear to be a white flag of truce hanging still on a flagpole. Floridians approved the addition of St. Andrew's Cross by popular referendum in 1900. The red saltire of the Cross of Burgundy represents the cross on which St. Andrew was crucified, and the standard can be frequently seen in Florida's historic settlements, such as St. Augustine, today.\n\nLastly, some historians see the addition of a red saltire as a commemoration of Florida's contributions to the Confederacy by Governor Fleming, who served in the 2nd Florida Regiment of the Confederate army. The addition was made during a period of nostalgia for the \"Lost Cause\" around the time of the flag's change. According to historian John M. Coski, the adoption of Florida's flag coincided with the rise of Jim Crow laws and segregation, as other former Confederate slave states, such as Mississippi and Alabama, also adopted new state flags around the same time when those states instituted Jim Crow segregation laws themselves:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24836816", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24836816", "title": "George-Étienne Cartier Monument", "text": "George-Étienne Cartier Monument\n\nThe Sir George-Étienne Cartier Monument is a monument in Mount Royal Park to George-Étienne Cartier by sculptor George William Hill (1862–1934).\n\nThe monument, which is topped by a winged Goddess of Liberty, was inaugurated on September 6, 1919 in the heart of Fletcher's Field west side. In temperate months it is the site of free weekly drum circle festivals informally called Tam-Tams.\n\nOn the front, or East side of the monument, George-Étienne Cartier is portrayed standing above four other figures, each one representing a Province that signed the Canadian Confederation of 1867. \n\nOn the North side of the monument, a woman with a young girl to her right and a young boy to her left is shown holding a sword in her left hand. The boy holds out his bonded wrists in a begging manner as the girl reads a book. This scene represents Legislation.\n\nOn the South side, in a similar scene to the North side, a woman sits in the middle of a young boy who is holding a ball and a young girl who is reading a book. This represents Cartier's important contributions in education.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56327920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56327920", "title": "Guatemalan immigration to the United States", "text": "Guatemalan immigration to the United States\n\nAccording to the 2010 US Census, the Guatemalan-born population totaled 1,044,209 people, comprising 2.1% of the overall immigrant population of the US, and making Guatemala the 10th highest sender of immigrants in the US.\n\nUp until the 1960s, Guatemalan migration to the US was negligible. The Department of Homeland Security's (DHS) Office of Immigration Statistics notes the first trickles of migration in the 1940s and 50s, but migration truly began to increase through the 1970s and 80s. By the 1990s, more than 100,000 migrants were coming into the US by means of green cards each decade and then that number slightly dipped in the early 2000s. More recent data is harder to gauge, as majority of Guatemalan migration is predicted to be unauthorized. The US Census data in 2000 marked 372,487 Guatemalans in the US and by 2010, the number had reached over 1 million, showing a 183% increase in Guatemalans in the US over the decade. This shows that even though \"legal\" migration may have slowed, migration as a whole from the country is on the rise.\n\nIn the past decade, legal Guatemalan migration to the US has been predominantly through immediate relative petitions and family sponsorship, whereas \"temporary\" visas have been granted primarily through the H2A and H1A programs for seasonal agricultural and non-agricultural labor. These numbers are relatively small though (in 2016, about 13,000 Guatemalans were granted legal permanent residency, compared to about 174,500 Mexicans, Guatemala's neighbor, and about 7,500 Guatemalans were granted temporary work visas, compared to about 843,500 Mexicans). \nVery few Guatemalans have furthermore been granted citizenship. DHS data traces a range of about 6,500-9,700 Guatemalans granted citizenship annually since 2006. In 2015, only 27% of the Guatemalans in the US were citizens. Many Guatemalans, who are undocumented or on a temporary status, are blocked from a pathway to citizenship. Facing immigration restrictions, such as the ceiling placed on relative-based immigration in the Immigration Act of 1990 and the massive amounts of border patrol that have increased through acts in 1996, 2001, 2005, and 2006, Guatemalans have predominantly had to enter the US without documentation.\n\nFurthermore, despite a recent spike in asylum claims, according to a 2017 report by the Center for Migration Studies, many Guatemalans with legitimate claims of persecution are being rejected and deported back to the situations of violence from which they had fled. Asylum law depends on very specific instances of perception on the basis of race, religion, political opinion, nationality or membership in a social group in order to prove that one is a bona fide refugee and immigration attorneys have struggled to make the argument that being a victim of gang violence places a person in one of those categories. Furthermore, as many Guatemalans must claim their need for asylum at the border with minimal to no legal support in developing their claim, it is extremely difficult to win cases and many end up being subject to removal. Despite the clear violence that more recent Guatemalan immigrants are fleeing (in 2014, Guatemala had the 9th highest murder rate in the world with 31.2 murders/100,000 residents) and the recent skyrocketing of asylum claims, the asylum grant rate has remained at an outrageously low 3-5%.\nFearful of this reality, many who can, end up entering the US via what the immigration theorist Philip Martin calls the \"back door\" route—entering unauthorized. In fact, Pew Hispanic cites that in 2015, unauthorized migration made up the majority (56%) of Guatemalan migration, approximating 550,000 unauthorized Guatemalan immigrants that year. Some Guatemalans have qualified for the program of Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) since the Obama Administration instituted it in 2012, but Pew Hispanic estimates that only about 17,700 Guatemalans satisfied the requirements to receive DACA status, which is currently being contested by the Trump administration.\n\nGuatemalans have primarily settled in California, Florida and Texas. As of 2015, 29% of Guatemalans in the US lived in California while 8% respectively lived in Florida and Texas. Within California, Guatemalans are concentrated in Los Angeles (20%). Within these cities, ethnic enclaves and already-present communities help receive new migrants, connecting them with jobs and easing the transition, thus decreasing the linguistic and cultural costs of migration.\n"}
{"id": "18375527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18375527", "title": "How Do You Spell God?", "text": "How Do You Spell God?\n\nHow Do You Spell God?: Answers to the Big Questions from Around the World is a book on religion by Rabbi Marc Gellman and Msgr. Thomas Hartman of \"The God Squad\", which answers questions about different religions. Each chapter's title is a question about any religion in general; for example, one chapter asks \"What are some of the bad things in religions?\", another asks \"What question does each religion want to answer the most?\", and another asks \"What's a religion?\".\n\nA prologue written by the Dalai Lama introduces us to the book itself, and he tells people what to expect as they read it. He describes the connection between religion and happiness, and the importance of peace and tolerance in the world among people of different faiths.\n\nRabbi Gellman and Msgr. Hartman give the reader a warning that if he/she takes religion very seriously, and if it seems to be disrespectful or funny in the wrong way, then it's the wrong book, and that their intent is to be serious and funny.\n\nThe book was recognized with the Christopher Award in 1991.\n\nThe authors were featured as animated characters in an HBO special based on the book.\n"}
{"id": "355587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=355587", "title": "Individualist feminism", "text": "Individualist feminism\n\nIndividualist feminism, sometimes also grouped with libertarian feminism, is feminist ideas which emphasize individualism.\n\nIndividualist feminists attempt to change legal systems to eliminate class privileges and gender privileges and to ensure that individuals have equal rights, including an equal claim under the law to their own persons and property. Individualist feminism encourages women to take full responsibility for their own lives. It also opposes any government interference into the choices adults make with their own bodies because, it contends, such interference creates a coercive hierarchy (such as patriarchy). One central theme of individualist feminism revolves around the Free Love Movement, which indicates that a woman's sexual choices should be made by her and her alone, rather than by government regulations.\n\nIndividualist feminism was cast to appeal to \"younger women ... of a more conservative generation\" and includes concepts from Rene Denfeld and Naomi Wolf, essentially that \"feminism should no longer be about communal solutions to communal problems but individual solutions to individual problems\", and concepts from Wendy McElroy and especially Joan Kennedy Taylor.\n\nThe Association of Libertarian Feminists, founded in 1973 by Tonie Nathan, the Libertarian Party's Vice Presidential nominee in 1972, is one of a number of different kinds of individualist feminist organizations. It takes a strong anti-government and pro-choice stand. Other libertarian feminist organizations include the Ladies of Liberty Alliance, Feminists for Liberty, and the defunct Mother's Institute, which included Mothers for Liberty (meet-up groups).\n\nWendy McElroy and Christina Hoff Sommers define individualist feminism in opposition to what they call \"political\" or \"gender feminism\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10065263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10065263", "title": "Iron in folklore", "text": "Iron in folklore\n\nIron has a long and varied tradition in the mythology and folklore of the world.\n\nCold iron is a poetic term for iron.\n\nFrancis Grose's \"1811 Dictionary of the Vulgar Tongue\" defines cold iron as \"A sword, or any other weapon for cutting or stabbing.\" This usage often appears as \"cold steel\" in modern parlance.\n\nRudyard Kipling's poem \"Cold Iron\", found in his 1910 collection of stories \"Rewards and Fairies\", used the term poetically to mean \"weapon\".\n\n\"Cold iron\" is historically believed to repel, contain, or harm ghosts, fairies, witches, and other malevolent supernatural creatures. This belief continued into later superstitions in a number of forms:\n\n\nIn his novel \"Redgauntlet\", the Scottish author Sir Walter Scott wrote, \"Your wife's a witch, man; you should nail a horse-shoe on your chamber-door.\"\n\nIn modern fantasy, cold iron may refer to a special type of metal, such as meteoric iron or unworked metal. Weapons and implements made from cold iron are often granted special efficacy against creatures such as fairies and spirits.\n\nHorseshoes are considered a good luck charm in many cultures, including those of England, Denmark, Lithuania, and Estonia, and its shape, fabrication, placement and manner of sourcing are all important. A common tradition is that if a horseshoe is hung on a door with the two ends pointing up (as shown here) then good luck will occur. However, if the two ends point downwards then bad luck will occur. Traditions do differ on this point, though. In some cultures, the horseshoe is hung \"points down\" (so the luck pours onto you); in others, it is hung \"points up\" (so the luck does not fall out); still in others it does not matter so long as the horseshoe has been used (not new), was found (not purchased), and can be touched. In all traditions, luck is \"contained\" in the shoe and can \"pour out\" through the ends.\n\nIn some traditions, any good or bad luck achieved will only occur to the \"owner\" of the horseshoe, not the person who hangs it up. Therefore, if the horseshoe was stolen, borrowed or even just found then the \"owner\", not the person who found or stole the horseshoe will get any good or bad luck. Other traditions require that the horseshoe be found to be effective.\nOne reputed origin of the tradition of lucky horseshoes is the story of Saint Dunstan and the Devil. Dunstan, who would become the Archbishop of Canterbury in AD 959, was a blacksmith by trade. The story relates that he once nailed a horseshoe to the Devil's hoof when he was asked to reshoe the Devil's horse. This caused the Devil great pain, and Dunstan only agreed to remove the shoe and release the Devil after the Devil promised never to enter a place where a horseshoe is hung over the door.\n\nAnother theory concerning the placing of horseshoes above doorways is to ward off Faeries; the theory being that supernatural beings are repelled by iron and as horseshoes were an easily available source of iron, they could be nailed above a door to prevent any unwanted, otherworldly guests.\n\nThogcha () means 'sky-iron' in Tibetan. Meteoric iron was highly prized throughout the Himalayas where it was included in sophisticated polymetallic alloys for ritual implements such as the singing bowl (Jansen, 1992) and phurba (Müller-Ebeling, \"et al.\", 2002).\n\nBeer (1999: p. 234) holds that:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1730216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1730216", "title": "John \"Grizzly\" Adams", "text": "John \"Grizzly\" Adams\n\nJohn \"Grizzly\" Adams (also known as James Capen Adams and Grizzly Adams) (1812–1860) was a famous California mountain man and trainer of grizzly bears and other wild animals he captured for menageries, zoological gardens and circuses. When Theodore H. Hittell met Adams in 1856 at Adams' Mountaineer Museum in San Francisco, California, Adams first represented himself as William Adams, then a short time later told Hittell (also incorrectly) his name was James Capen Adams, an alias he maintained until 1860. He also told Hittell he was born on October 20, 1807, in Maine.\n\nIn the 1970s the motion picture \"The Life and Times of Grizzly Adams\" starring Dan Haggerty was released. An NBC TV series of the same name starring Haggerty followed. Eventually the Grizzly Adams brand was trademarked by the film and television series creator Charles E. Sellier, Jr. The trademark is now owned by Grizzly Adams, LLC, based in Coeur d'Alene, Idaho.\n\nSellier's 1970s movie and TV series used the same \"James Capen Adams\" name incorrectly conveyed by Hittell. The real John Adams did not have a middle name. His mother's maiden surname was \"Capen\". He did, however, actually have a younger brother named James Capen Adams. Information on his Massachusetts death record (Vol. 139, p. 225) also indicates that his name was John and gives an estimated birth year of 1813, based on age at death (48 years). His tombstone lists his first name as John and his date of death as October 25, 1860, age 48 years.\n\nGrizzly Adams was of English ancestry. Born and raised in Medway, Massachusetts, a suburb of Boston, he received little to no education. Adams began as an apprentice in the footwear manufacturing industry at age fourteen. At age twenty-one, he left that occupation, seeking to satisfy his true love - the outdoors and nature. He signed on with a company of showmen as a zoological collector. John hunted and captured live wild animals in the wildest parts of Maine, Vermont and New Hampshire, where he honed his woodsman, survival, and marksmanship skills. However, Adams told Hittell, his hunting and trapping career ended abruptly when he received severe back and spine injuries from a Bengal tiger he was attempting to train for his employers. Not wanting to become a burden on his family, after a year of recuperating he returned to his cobbler’s bench in Boston, Massachusetts. In 1836, John married Cylena Drury and they had three children: Arabella, Arathusa, and Seymour.\n\nIn 1849 with the California Gold Rush in progress, John invested his life savings of over $6,000 to buy a large supply of footwear, and had it shipped to St. Louis, Missouri. He intended to sell his goods at great profit to the thousands of forty-niners passing through St. Louis. Through no fault of his own, he lost the entire investment in the St. Louis wharf fire. Shortly thereafter, John's father committed suicide; - it is possible that he invested heavily in John's scheme. At this point, John felt he had nothing to lose. He had a touch of gold fever and a yearning for adventure. He knew even if he failed to recoup his lost investment in the mines, he could at least support himself by hunting and trapping in the untapped wilds of California. He left his family and relatives behind in Massachusetts and joined the 49ers on their way to California. On his journey via the Santa Fe and Gila trails, he twice survived near fatal illnesses and arrived at the gold fields of California late in 1849.\n\nAdams tried his luck at mining, hunting game to sell to the miners, trading, and finally, ranching and farming. At times he was rich and then, just as quickly, broke. Late in 1852, having lost his ranch outside of Stockton, California to creditors, he took the few items he could salvage and headed into the Sierra Nevada mountains to get away from it all. With the help of the local Miwok Indians, Adams built a cabin and stable and spent the winter alone in the Sierra. John was an expert hunter and his New England training in shoemaking and leather craft gave him the necessary skills to fashion buckskin clothing and moccasins (the clothing he adopted as normal attire for the remainder of his life). He also made his own harness, pack saddles, snowshoes and other items he needed.\n\nJohn didn't stay in California all the time. He traveled great distances from his California base camp on foot, on horse or mule, or in an ox-drawn wagon. In 1853, he made a hunting and trapping expedition some 1,200 miles from his base camp in California to eastern Washington Territory (what is now western Montana). While there, he caught a yearling female grizzly that he named Lady Washington. Even though she was already a year old and very wild, he managed to tame her and taught her to follow him without restraint. Later, he trained her to carry a pack and then to pull a loaded sled. She even cuddled up near John to keep him warm in freezing conditions. Eventually, Lady Washington allowed John to ride on her back.\n\nIn 1854, Adams retrieved a pair of two-week-old male grizzly cubs from the den of their mother near Yosemite Valley. He named one of them Benjamin Franklin. Ben saved John's life a year later in 1855, when a mother grizzly attacked Adams. John and Ben both bore the scars of that attack the rest of their lives. The head injury John received in the attack led to his demise five years later. In the summer of 1854, John traveled to the Rocky Mountains to hunt and collect more live animals. He and his hunting companions sold meat, hides and some live animals to the emigrants along the Emigrant Trails near where the Oregon Trail and the Mormon Trail split away from each other (southwestern Wyoming). They also sold and traded at Fort Bridger, Wyoming and Fort Supply. During this expedition, Lady Washington had an amorous encounter with a Rocky Mountain grizzly. The mating resulted in a male cub that was born the next year when she was with Adams in Corral Hollow on the eastern side of the California coastal mountains. Adams christened her cub General Fremont, in honor of John C. Fremont.\n\nIn the winter of 1854, Grizzly Adams captured a huge California grizzly in the largest cage trap Adams had ever constructed. John named him Samson. When the monster bear was later weighed on a hay scale, it tipped the beam at 1,500 pounds (one of the largest grizzly bears ever captured alive).\n\nDuring 1855, Adams and his companions hunted and trapped game in the California Coast Range mountains, journeyed to the Kern River mines, then proceeded southward to the Tehachapi Mountains and Tejon Pass. Returning from the Tejon Pass area, Adams followed the Old Spanish Route via San Miguel and San Jose. Due to interest of the curious people the group met, John set up impromptu shows of his bears and other animals he had collected on his summer excursion. These shows, a precursor to his circus career, were conducted in San Miguel, Santa Clara, San Jose, the redwoods and finally San Francisco.\n\nIn 1856, John retrieved all of his animals from Howard's Ranch near Stockton, California where he had left them to be cared for while he was absent. He then opened the Mountaineer Museum in a basement on Clay Street in San Francisco. Due to notices T. H. Hittell printed in the San Francisco daily \"Evening Bulletin\", Adams' show drew many more patrons. Soon thereafter, Adams was able to move his menagerie and museum, now called the Pacific Museum, to a better location. The new building could accommodate larger audiences and house more animals and displays. By 1858, he was referred to as the \"Barnum of the Pacific\", in a San Francisco newspaper. In January, 1858, tragedy struck when noble Ben, John's favorite grizzly, died of an illness for which no remedy could be found. Adams was devastated at the loss, but continued to show his animals daily. He also continuously added more animals and other attractions to his museum. In 1859, due to such over extensions, he lost his museum building to creditors. However, he was able to save most of his menagerie, which he relocated temporarily to another building.\n\nGrizzly Adams' health was deteriorating and he knew his life would soon end. Since he had been away from his wife in Massachusetts for over ten years, he wanted to earn enough before he died to leave her a comfortable sum. He made arrangements to relocate his menagerie and collections to New York, in hopes of joining P. T. Barnum as a part of his show. On January 7, 1860, Adams and his menagerie departed from San Francisco on the clipper ship \"Golden Fleece\" on their way to New York City via Cape Horn, a -month voyage.\n\nIn New York City, Grizzly Adams, still representing himself as James Capen Adams, joined with Barnum to perform his California Menagerie in a canvas tent for six weeks. His health continued to decline and after a doctor told him he had better settle his affairs, Adams decided he would sell his menagerie to Barnum. However, disregarding his doctor's prognosis, he managed to persuade Barnum to agree to let him perform his animals for another ten-weeks for a $500 bonus. Adams' willpower held out for the full contract, though at the end he could hardly walk onto the stage. From the proceeds of the sale of the menagerie and the bonus, he had accomplished his goal of providing a comfortable sum for his wife.\n\nIn 1855 Adams suffered head and neck trauma during a grizzly attack in the Sierra of California. His scalp was dislodged, and he was left with a silver dollar-sized impression in his skull, just above his forehead. Adams had made pets of several grizzlies, and often wrestled with them while training them and in exhibitions. During one such bout, his most delinquent grizzly, General Fremont (named for John C. Fremont), struck Adams in the head and reopened the wound. It was subsequently reinjured several times, eventually leaving Adams' brain tissue exposed.\n\nThe damage was further exacerbated while Adams was on tour with a circus in New England during the summer of 1860, when a monkey he was attempting to train purportedly bit into the wound. After more than four months performing with his \"California Menagerie\", complications from the injury led to Adams' inability to continue with the show. After completing his contract with P. T. Barnum, he retired to Neponset, Massachusetts, where he died of illness (possibly meningitis) just five days after arriving at the home of his wife and daughter. Upon hearing of Adams' death, Barnum was deeply grieved. He died October 25, 1860. \n\nAdams was interred at the Bay Path Cemetery in Charlton, Massachusetts. It is believed P.T. Barnum commissioned the creation of his tombstone. Also buried there nearby are his mother, father, a sister, his wife, his son and one of his two daughters.\n\nDuring Grizzly Adams' exhibition of his grizzly bears and other trained animals in San Francisco, he was working with Hittell from July, 1857 until December 1859. Hittell listened to Adams narrate his adventures almost daily for an hour or so and took careful notes, cross-questioning Adams to assure he had it straight. Adams knew, and was apparently flattered by the fact Mr. Hittell intended to write a book based upon Adams' talks. Also, during this time, the artist Charles C. Nahl took an interest in Adams' grizzlies and, working with Hittell, prepared illustrations (one of which is at the head of this article) that would be used in Hittell's forthcoming book. One of his paintings eventually became the model for the grizzly bear on California's state flag. In 1860, after Adams had relocated to New York, Theodore H. Hittell published his book, \"The Adventures of James Capen Adams, Mountaineer and Grizzly Bear Hunter of California\", in San Francisco, and then later that year, in Boston.\n\nIn 1833, John Adams hired on as a wild animal collector with a group of showmen. Several menageries were active in the New England area at this time, probably the largest was the June, Titus Company's \"National Menagerie\" aka, \"Grand National Menagerie.\" Boston, Massachusetts was the venue for many such menageries while Adams was living there, so he had the opportunity to meet and interact with the proprietors and performers. There were also circuses and menageries on the Pacific Coast when John reached California, one of which was the Joseph A. Rowe \"Olympic Circus\" that performed in San Francisco and Sacramento, California at the time he arrived. On two occasions, Adams told Hittell he had contact with an acquaintance from New England. This person most likely was in some way connected to the circus/menagerie business. Adams told Hittell that the man was his brother, \"William\", although Adams didn't have a brother by that name. According to Earle Williams, the property that Adams ranched near Stockton, California in 1852 was the same land that was later acquired by Henry C. Lee and John R. Marshall, proprietors of the \"Lee and Marshall Circus.\" Lee hired a man by the name of David Howard to run the ranch which was about eight-miles southeast of Stockton, on Mariposa road. Grizzly Adams often left his stock and captured animals at \"Howard's Ranch\" to be cared for by Howard and Lee's circus people. Lee's circus used the ranch to keep their circus stock, wagons and other items in the circus' winter off-season. According to Williams when Grizzly Adams established his \"Mountaineer Museum\" in San Francisco, in 1856, the menagerie was a part of Lee's Circus, as a \"side show.\" Adams and a couple of his bears appeared with Rowe's \"Pioneer Circus\" in November. In 1857, Adams had a partner named Sheppard. In 1859, T. W. Tanner was a partner with Adams (this may have been the man who owned a half-interest in Adams' \"Pacific Museum,\" prior to Adams leaving for New York in January, 1860). When Adams arrived in New York City in April 1860, he discovered while talking with P.T. Barnum, that Barnum had bought the one-half interest of Adams' \"California Menagerie,\" (possibly from Tanner). On April 30, 1860, Adams and Barnum opened the \"California Menagerie\" in a canvas tent on the corner of Broadway and Fourth Street in New York City The show ran for six weeks. Adams health was failing, and he sold the remaining interest in the menagerie to Barnum. Adams then went on a summer tour of Massachusetts, Connecticut and New Hampshire as part of Nixon & Company's Circus. He continued to perform with his bears and other trained animals until late October, 1860.\n\nJohn Adams was a member of the Adams family of New England that included many important men and women who contributed to the founding and early history of the United States. His great-great-great-great-grandfather, Henry Adams (1583–1646), emigrated with his family from England to Boston, Massachusetts in 1632, and thus established the famous Adams family in America. Henry's descendants include the patriot, Samuel Adams and two presidents, John Adams and President Adams' son, John Quincy Adams. Grizzly was born in a suburb of Boston, Massachusetts, and was surrounded by relatives and cousins. During Grizzly Adams' childhood, President John Adams lived within a short buggy ride of him in Quincy, Massachusetts. John Adams was the third child and first son born to Eleazer Adams (1776–1849) and Sybil (Capen) Adams (1785–1844). He had seven siblings, Susan B., Almy, Charles, James Capen, Zilpha, Francis and Albert. John married Cylena Drury in 1836. They had three children: Arabella, Arathusa Elizabeth, and Seymour. His son, Seymour, never married, so there were no male descendants of Grizzly Adams bearing the Adams surname. John's younger brother, James Capen Adams, (the alias used by \"Grizzly\" Adams), married and fathered seven children. Curiously, when Grizzly Adams toured in Connecticut with the circus during the summer of 1860, his brother (the real) James Capen Adams and his family were living in Norfolk, Connecticut at the time.\n\nIn his few years of hunting, John \"Grizzly\" Adams accomplished astonishing feats. Richard Dillon considers him to be \"the greatest California mountain man of them all\", and McCracken labels him the \"Fabulous Mr. 'Grizzly' Adams.\" Modern hunters with high-powered precision weapons rarely get up close and personal with their game the way Adams did. He never hesitated to resort to hand-to-paw or knife-to-claw combat when necessary, and he captured more grizzlies alive in those few years than any other man has. In addition, he captured a wide variety of other wild animals, totaling in the hundreds, for menageries and zoos. Although Grizzly Adams did kill a number of bears, including grizzlies, he did so for food or their furs and hides. He was not a \"conservationist\" as the term is used in modern times. He did, however, genuinely love the outdoors, wildlife and unspoiled nature; he hated waste. The Western Hall of Fame celebrated Adams' achievements in 1911 with the \"Heroes of California\" honor.\n\nHis Mountaineer Menagerie was the largest collection of live and mounted animal specimens on the West Coast. This collection became the Pacific Museum in San Francisco, where he and his animals entertained and educated people from far and wide. He was referred to as \"the Barnum of the Pacific\" in an article published in a San Francisco newspaper. His exhibitions also inspired others to campaign for the establishment of zoos, partially resultant of which were the establishment of Woodward's Gardens and, later, the famous Fleishhacker Zoo in San Francisco. On the East Coast, the Zoological Gardens in New York's Central Park was established in 1860 and in 1899 the Bronx Zoo was opened.\n\nCharles C. Nahl, using Adams' grizzlies as models, made drawings, etchings and paintings of grizzly bears in various scenes. His sketches (including the one at the top of this article) were used to illustrate Hittel's book about Adams. Nahl's 1855 painting of a California grizzly portrayed Adams' bear Samson, which the mountain man had brought to San Jose and San Francisco to display that year; this image ended up being the source for the California Bear Flag, for which the official design specifications were put into law in 1953. The legislation also established the grizzly as California's state land animal.\n\nAlthough not educated as a naturalist in a college or university, Adams learned the habits and facts of grizzly life first-hand through his observations while hunting and trapping them. Because of this, he came to know more about the California grizzly bear than anyone else. The information that Adams narrated to Hittell was published in the book \"The Adventures of James Capen Adams\". His lore has been indispensable to naturalists including Storer and Wright, as well as to historians.\n\nAdams was a famed United States outdoorsman, animal collector/trainer and an owner/performer in his own menagerie and later a partner of P. T. Barnum's shows. A biography was published about Adams the year he died. He was the central character in Charles E. Sellier's 1972 novel \"The Life and Times of Grizzly Adams.\"\nAs a character in film and television, Adams has been played by:\n\n\nChildren's Book: \n"}
{"id": "11104648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11104648", "title": "John Murray Cuddihy", "text": "John Murray Cuddihy\n\nJohn Murray Cuddihy (January 22, 1922 - April 18, 2011 ) was an American sociologist. He was a member of the doctoral faculty at the Graduate School and University Center of the City University of New York (GSUC).\n\nHe is the author of \"No Offense: Civil Religion and Protestant Taste\" (1978) and \"The Ordeal of Civility: Freud, Marx, Lévi-Strauss and the Jewish Struggle with Modernity\" (1974), two books in the sociology of religion. Cuddihy has been described as a \"Catholic atheist,\", and \"a brilliant yet eccentric critic of contemporary American Jewry\".\n\nCuddihy received his bachelor's degree from St. John's College (Annapolis), three M.A.s: two from Columbia University and a third from the New School for Social Research in New York City. He took a Ph.D. in Sociology at Rutgers University.\n\nHe taught courses in sociological theory, sociology of religion, and the sociology of diaspora Jewry.\n\nHis doctoral dissertation was later published, in 1974, as \"The Ordeal of Civility\". \"No Offense: Civil Religion and Protestant Taste\" was published in 1978.\n\nIn \"The Ordeal of Civility\", Cuddihy explicates the wrenching process of adjusting to modernity experienced by the shtetl Jews of the Pale in the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries who had to adapt quickly from a tribal culture to a modern Protestant civil culture rather than slowly adjusting over the centuries. It is in this context that he locates the efforts of Jewish intellectuals, such as Karl Marx, Sigmund Freud and Claude Lévi-Strauss to facilitate the transition by providing a cohesive narrative that attempts to universalize the experience and thus provide an apologia to both the in-group of Jews and the out-group of gentiles.\n\nIn \"No Offense\", a critique of American civil religion, Cuddihy argues that Catholic and Jewish intellectuals in America gave up the distinctive religious claims of Catholicism and Judaism, respectively, in the interests of not offending the Protestant majority. Cuddihy views various intellectual critiques of modernity - both conservative and radical - as the product of resentment against the more successful, enlightened, Protestant majority.\n"}
{"id": "1443265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1443265", "title": "Jopara language", "text": "Jopara language\n\nJopara ( or Yopará () is a colloquial form of Guarani spoken in Paraguay which uses a number of Spanish loan words. Its name is from the Guarani word for \"mixture.\"\n\nThe majority of Paraguayans, particularly younger ones, speak some form of Jopara.\n\nThe relative amount of Guarani or Spanish used in speech varies depending upon the birth of the speakers, the place where they speak, with whom they are speaking, the topic of discussion, and how they want their meaning to be interpreted. Generally, the rural and older population tends to use more Guarani, while the urban and younger population uses more Spanish—the rural and older population \"understands\" more Guarani and the urban and younger more Spanish. General and every-day conversation is more suited to Guarani, while technical and specific or formal conversation is more suited to Spanish. Guarani can be interpreted as more \"Paraguayan\" while Spanish can be interpreted as more \"sophisticated.\"\n\nSince 1992, under the Paraguay's Ministry of Education and Culture (MEC) Act, Guarani in its \"pure form\"—different from the day-to-day speech of Jopara—has been taught in schools. This led to contradictory opinions: some say that teaching pure Guarani is the best means to preserve the language's integrity, while others argue that how Guarani is taught differs greatly from how it is commonly spoken.\n\nMany grammatical markers for features found in Guarani but not in Spanish, like evidentiality markers, are borrowed from Guarani. For example (Guarani words in bold):\nSome Spanish words, when put in a sentence mixed with Guarani, have a different meaning than that of standard Spanish. They can come from calques of equivalent Guarani expressions. For example:\n\n"}
{"id": "52520560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52520560", "title": "Juana María Rodríguez", "text": "Juana María Rodríguez\n\nJuana María Rodríguez is a professor of Ethnic Studies, Gender and Women's Studies, and Performance Studies at the University of California, Berkeley. Her scholarly writing in queer theory, critical race theory, and performance studies highlights the intersection of race, gender, sexuality and embodiment in constructing subjectivity.\n\nBorn Juana María de la Caridad Rodríguez y Hernández in Placetas, Cuba, Rodríguez emigrated to the United States in 1963 with her family. She has two siblings: and her sister Dinorah de Jesús Rodríguez,an experimental filmmaker and visual artist who works between Havana and Miami, and her brother René. Rodríguez identifies as queer and bisexual, and has published work about what she terms \"bisexual erasure.\"\n\nDescribing herself as an \"accidental academic\" in reference to her working class upbringing, Rodríguez attended City College of San Francisco before graduating with a Bachelor's degree from San Francisco State University in Liberal Studies. Her graduate degrees include a Masters in English and Comparative Literature from Columbia University, and a Ph.D. in Ethnic Studies from the University of California, Berkeley where she studied with Norma Alarcón, Judith Butler, VèVè A. Clark, and Gerald Vizenor.\n\nBefore joining the faculty at Berkeley, Rodríguez was an Assistant Professor of English at Bryn Mawr College, and an Associate Professor of Women and Gender Studies at the University of California, Davis where she served as Director of the Cultural Studies Graduate Group.\n\nAt Berkeley, she is affiliated with the Center for Race and Gender, the Center for New Media, the Center for the Study of Sexual Culture and the Haas Institute for a Fair and Equitable Society, where she was a founding member of the LGBTQ Citizen Cluster.\n\nIn 2014, she was appointed to the University of California President's Advisory Committee on LGBT Students, Staff, and Faculty Member by Janet Napolitano.\n\nThe author of two books, \"Queer Latinidad: Identity Practices, Discursive Spaces\" (NYU Press, 2003) and \"Sexual Futures, Queer Gestures, and Other Latina Longings\" (NYU 2014), Rodríguez has also published essays in \"; Women & Performance: a journal of feminist theory; Radical History Review; PMLA; MELUS; Profession\" and others\".\" Rodríguez's work is considered part of queer of color critique, an intervention into queer theory that argues that sexuality can not be understood or analyzed outside of the ways it is mutually constituted by race and other dimensions of difference.\n\nRodríguez's first book, \"Queer Latinidad: Identity Practices, Discursive Spaces\" (NYU Press, 2003) introduced the idea of queer \"latinidad\" as a way to disarticulate the ways that history, geography, colonialism, ethnicity, nationality, language, religion, legal status, immigration status, class, color, and the politics of location exist to complicate facile notions of Latino identity. In that book, Rodríguez identifies three case studies that involve different understandings of ethnic and sexual identity: activism through the queer Latino/a HIV prevention agency Proyecto ContraSIDA por Vida; law through the asylum case of Marcelo Tenorio, a gay Brazilian who was granted political asylum in the United States based on sexual persecution; and cyberspace by examining the internet chatrooms of the IRC (Internet Relay Chat) an early form of digital connectivity.\n\nIn her chapter on the IRC, \"'Welcome to the Global Stage': Confessions of a Latina Cyber-Slut\" in \"Queer Latinidad\", Rodríguez documents the use of the \"@\" or arroba in words like Latin@, amig@s, or nostr@s seen in the Spanish language digital spaces she studied, as a \"creative linguistic intervention in the highly gendered structure of Spanish.\" She writes, \"Unlike the slash in words such as Latinos/as or amigas/os, which maintains a gender binary while attempting to be inclusive, the @ or \"at sign,\" literally marks where an individual is at in terms of gender.\" She has also discussed the use of the \"x\" in terms such as Latinx and other approaches to the ungendering or queering of Spanish, although she also argues that gender can also be a site of pleasure and affirmation.\n\nRodriguez's second book \"Sexual Futures, Queer Gestures, and Other Latina Longings\" (NYU Press 2014) looks at queer kinship practices, sodomy laws in Puerto Rico, Latin dance styles, commercials, pornography, burlesque, queer pride marches, alongside sexual practices such as BDSM, polyamory, daddy-play, and butch-femme role playing to examine the relationship between sexual politics and sexual practices. In the book and elsewhere, she highlights how the politics of respectability that surround sexuality inhibit the potential for more radical interventions into public policy and law around sexuality. Throughout the book, she uses the idea of gesture to emphasize non-verbal ways of communicating gendered and ethnic identity, and as a metaphor to think about activist practices that are partial, in-process and incomplete. The book features queer performance artist Xandra Ibarra, and explores the taboo subject of racialized sexual violence.\n\nRodríguez's work is often specifically praised for the ways in which it deals explicitly with queer sexual practices and forms of gender expression such as butch and femme. She frequently uses her own sexual experiences, or what she terms \"sexual archives\" to illuminate her ideas on racialized abjection, feminine subjection, sexual vulnerability, and femme identity. In her writing, she often references the sensory, particularly touch, as a way to articulate an embodied sexual practice and a writing practice rooted in sociality. In reviews of her work, reviewers frequently remark on her lyrical use of language.\n\nIn 2015, her book, \"Sexual Futures, Queer Gestures, and Other Latina Longings\" won the Alan Bray Memorial Book Prize, by the GL/Q Caucus of the Modern Language Association and was a Lambda Literary Foundation Finalist for LGBT Studies.\n\nAt the University of California, Berkeley, she has won the Social Science Division, Distinguished Teaching Award and the Graduate Assembly's Faculty Mentor Award.\n\nA member of the American Studies Association, the Modern Language Association, and the National Women's Studies Association, she was chair of the Modern Language Association's Committee on the Status of Literatures of People of Color in the United States and edited a collection of essays entitled the \"Affirmative Activism Project\" on diversity in higher education. She was also elected to the National Council of the American Studies Association for a three-year term in 2013.\n\nA frequent public speaker and writer, Rodríguez has also published articles on the Orlando Pulse shooting, diversity in Higher Education, gay marriage, and bisexuality.\n"}
{"id": "21126351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21126351", "title": "Marin Goleminov", "text": "Marin Goleminov\n\nMarin Petrov Goleminov (; 28 September 1908 – 19 February 2000) was a Bulgarian composer, violinist, conductor and pedagogue.\n\nGoleminov was born in Kyustendil; the son of an attorney, he studied law before switching to music. Having studied music at Sofia, Paris and Munich, in 1943 he was appointed to the faculty of the Bulgarian State Academy of Music in Sofia to teach orchestration, conducting and composition. From 1954 to 1956 he served as Rector of the Sofia Opera, and as Director of the same organization from 1965 to 1967. In 1976 he was presented with the Gottfried von Herder Award of the Vienna University, and in 1989 was made an Academician of the Bulgarian Academy of Sciences. He died in Espinho, Portugal.\n\nGoleminov's compositions draw heavily on the traditional rhythms and melodic patterns of Bulgarian folk music, while also exploring more modernist classical trends. His son Michail is also a composer.\n\nGoleminov Point in Antarctica is named after Marin Goleminov.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "578014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=578014", "title": "Mikhail Bakhtin", "text": "Mikhail Bakhtin\n\nMikhail Mikhailovich Bakhtin (; , ; – 7 March 1975) was a Russian philosopher, literary critic, semiotician and scholar who worked on literary theory, ethics, and the philosophy of language. His writings, on a variety of subjects, inspired scholars working in a number of different traditions (Marxism, semiotics, structuralism, religious criticism) and in disciplines as diverse as literary criticism, history, philosophy, sociology, anthropology and psychology. Although Bakhtin was active in the debates on aesthetics and literature that took place in the Soviet Union in the 1920s, his distinctive position did not become well known until he was rediscovered by Russian scholars in the 1960s.\n\nBakhtin was born in Oryol, Russia, to an old family of the nobility. His father was the manager of a bank and worked in several cities. For this reason Bakhtin spent his early childhood years in Oryol, in Vilnius, and then in Odessa, where in 1913 he joined the historical and philological faculty at the local university (the Odessa University). Katerina Clark and Michael Holquist write: \"Odessa..., like Vilnius, was an appropriate setting for a chapter in the life of a man who was to become the philosopher of heteroglossia and carnival. The same sense of fun and irreverence that gave birth to Babel's Rabelaisian gangster or to the tricks and deceptions of Ostap Bender, the picaro created by Ilf and Petrov, left its mark on Bakhtin.\" He later transferred to Petrograd Imperial University to join his brother Nikolai. It is here that Bakhtin was greatly influenced by the classicist F. F. Zelinsky, whose works contain the beginnings of concepts elaborated by Bakhtin.\n\nBakhtin completed his studies in 1918. He then moved to a small city in western Russia, Nevel (Pskov Oblast), where he worked as a schoolteacher for two years. It was at that time that the first \"Bakhtin Circle\" formed. The group consisted of intellectuals with varying interests, but all shared a love for the discussion of literary, religious, and political topics. Included in this group were Valentin Voloshinov and, eventually, P. N. Medvedev, who joined the group later in Vitebsk. Vitebsk was “a cultural centre of the region” the perfect place for Bakhtin “and other intellectuals [to organize] lectures, debates and concerts.\" German philosophy was the topic talked about most frequently and, from this point forward, Bakhtin considered himself more a philosopher than a literary scholar. It was in Nevel, also, that Bakhtin worked tirelessly on a large work concerning moral philosophy that was never published in its entirety. However, in 1919, a short section of this work was published and given the title \"Art and Responsibility\". This piece constitutes Bakhtin's first published work. Bakhtin relocated to Vitebsk in 1920. It was here, in 1921, that Bakhtin married Elena Aleksandrovna Okolovich. Later, in 1923, Bakhtin was diagnosed with osteomyelitis, a bone disease that ultimately led to the amputation of his leg in 1938. This illness hampered his productivity and rendered him an invalid.\nIn 1924, Bakhtin moved to Leningrad, where he assumed a position at the Historical Institute and provided consulting services for the State Publishing House. It is at this time that Bakhtin decided to share his work with the public, but just before \"On the Question of the Methodology of Aesthetics in Written Works\" was to be published, the journal in which it was to appear stopped publication. This work was eventually published 51 years later. The repression and misplacement of his manuscripts was something that would plague Bakhtin throughout his career. In 1929, \"Problems of Dostoevsky’s Art\", Bakhtin's first major work, was published. It is here that Bakhtin introduces the concept of dialogism. However, just as this book was introduced, on 8 December 1928, right before Voskresenie's 10th anniversary, Meyer, Bakhtin and a number of others associated with Voskresenie were apprehended by the Soviet secret police, the OGPU (Hirschkop 1999: p. 168), the leaders being sentenced up to ten years in labor camps of Solovki, though after an appeal to consider the state of his health his sentence was commuted to exile to Kazakhstan, where he and his wife spent six years in Kustanai (now Kostanay), after which in 1936 they moved to Saransk (then in Mordovian ASSR, now the Republic of Mordovia) where he taught at the Mordovian Pedagogical Institute.\n\nDuring the six years he spent working as a book-keeper in the town of Kustanai he wrote several important essays, including \"Discourse in the Novel\". In 1936, living in Saransk, he became an obscure figure in a provincial college, dropping out of view and teaching only occasionally. In 1937, Bakhtin moved to Kimry, a town located one hundred kilometers from Moscow. Here, Bakhtin completed work on a book concerning the 18th-century German novel which was subsequently accepted by the Sovetskii Pisatel' Publishing House. However, the only copy of the manuscript disappeared during the upheaval caused by the German invasion.\n\nAfter the amputation of his leg in 1938, Bakhtin's health improved and he became more prolific. In 1940, and until the end of World War II, Bakhtin lived in Moscow, where he submitted a dissertation on François Rabelais to the Gorky Institute of World Literature to obtain a postgraduate title, a dissertation that could not be defended until the war ended. In 1946 and 1949, the defense of this dissertation divided the scholars of Moscow into two groups: those official opponents guiding the defense, who accepted the original and unorthodox manuscript, and those other professors who were against the manuscript's acceptance. The book's earthy, anarchic topic was the cause of many arguments that ceased only when the government intervened. Ultimately, Bakhtin was denied a higher doctoral degree (Doctor of Sciences) and granted a lesser degree (Candidate of Sciences, a research doctorate) by the State Accrediting Bureau. Later, Bakhtin was invited back to Saransk, where he took on the position of chair of the General Literature Department at the Mordovian Pedagogical Institute. When, in 1957, the Institute changed from a teachers' college to a university, Bakhtin became head of the Department of Russian and World Literature. In 1961, Bakhtin's deteriorating health forced him to retire, and in 1969, in search of medical attention, Bakhtin moved back to Moscow, where he lived until his death in 1975.\n\nBakhtin's works and ideas gained popularity after his death, and he endured difficult conditions for much of his professional life, a time in which information was often seen as dangerous and therefore often hidden. As a result, the details provided now are often of uncertain accuracy. Also contributing to the imprecision of these details is the limited access to Russian archival information during Bakhtin's life. It is only after the archives became public that scholars realized that much of what they thought they knew about the details of Bakhtin's life was false or skewed largely by Bakhtin himself.\n\n\"Toward a Philosophy of the Act\" was first published in the USSR in 1986 with the title \"K filosofii postupka\". The manuscript, written between 1919–1921, was found in bad condition with pages missing and sections of text that were illegible. Consequently, this philosophical essay appears today as a fragment of an unfinished work. \"Toward a Philosophy of the Act\" comprises only an introduction, of which the first few pages are missing, and part one of the full text. However, Bakhtin's intentions for the work were not altogether lost, for he provided an outline in the introduction in which he stated that the essay was to contain four parts. The first part of the essay deals with the analysis of the performed acts or deeds that comprise the actual world; \"the world actually experienced, and not the merely thinkable world.\" For the three subsequent and unfinished parts of \"Toward a Philosophy of the Act\" Bakhtin states the topics he intends to discuss. He outlines that the second part will deal with aesthetic activity and the ethics of artistic creation; the third with the ethics of politics; and the fourth with religion.\n\n\"Toward a Philosophy of the Act\" reveals a young Bakhtin who is in the process of developing his moral philosophy by decentralizing the work of Kant. This text is one of Bakhtin's early works concerning ethics and aesthetics and it is here that Bakhtin lays out three claims regarding the acknowledgment of the uniqueness of one's participation in Being:\n\nBakhtin further states: \"It is in relation to the whole actual unity that my unique thought arises from my unique place in Being.\" Bakhtin deals with the concept of morality whereby he attributes the predominating legalistic notion of morality to human moral action. According to Bakhtin, the I cannot maintain neutrality toward moral and ethical demands which manifest themselves as one's voice of consciousness.\n\nIt is here also that Bakhtin introduces an \"architectonic\" or schematic model of the human psyche which consists of three components: \"I-for-myself\", \"I-for-the-other\", and \"other-for-me\". The I-for-myself is an unreliable source of identity, and Bakhtin argues that it is the I-for-the-other through which human beings develop a sense of identity because it serves as an amalgamation of the way in which others view me. Conversely, other-for-me describes the way in which others incorporate my perceptions of them into their own identities. Identity, as Bakhtin describes it here, does not belong merely to the individual, rather it is shared by all.\n\nDuring his time in Leningrad, Bakhtin shifted his view away from the philosophy characteristic of his early works and towards the notion of dialogue. It is at this time that he began his engagement with the work of Fyodor Dostoevsky. \"Problems of Dostoevsky’s Art\" is considered to be Bakhtin's seminal work, a work in which Bakhtin introduces three important concepts.\n\nThe first concept is the unfinalizable self: individual people cannot be finalized, completely understood, known, or labeled. Though it is possible to understand people and to treat them as if they are completely known, Bakhtin's conception of unfinalizability considers the possibility that a person can change, and that a person is never fully revealed or fully known in the world. Readers may find that this conception reflects the idea of the \"soul\"; Bakhtin had strong roots in Christianity and in the Neo-Kantian school led by Hermann Cohen, both of which emphasized the importance of an individual's potentially infinite capability, worth, and the hidden soul.\n\nSecond is the idea of the relationship between the self and others, or other groups. According to Bakhtin, every person is influenced by others in an inescapably intertwined way, and consequently no voice can be said to be isolated. In an interview with the Novy Mir Editorial Staff ('Response to a Question from Novy Mir Editorial Staff'), Bakhtin once explained that,\n\nIn order to understand, it is immensely important for the person who understands to be located outside the object of his or her creative understanding—in time, in space, in culture. For one cannot even really see one's own exterior and comprehend it as a whole, and no mirrors or photographs can help; our real exterior can be seen and understood only by other people, because they are located outside us in space, and because they are others.\n~\"New York Review of Books\", June 10, 1993.\n\nAs such, Bakhtin's philosophy greatly respected the influences of others on the self, not merely in terms of how a person comes to be, but also in how a person thinks and how a person sees him- or herself truthfully.\n\nThird, Bakhtin found a true representation of \"polyphony\" (i.e. many voices) in Dostoevsky's work. According to Dostoevsky, each character represents a voice that speaks for an individual self, distinct from others. This idea of polyphony is related to the concepts of unfinalizability and self-and-others, since it is the unfinalizability of individuals that creates true polyphony.\n\nBakhtin briefly outlined the polyphonic concept of truth. He criticized the assumption that, if two people disagree, at least one of them must be in error. He challenged philosophers for whom plurality of minds is accidental and superfluous. For Bakhtin, truth is not a statement, a sentence or a phrase. Instead, understanding is a number of mutually addressed, albeit contradictory and logically inconsistent, statements. Understanding needs a multitude of carrying voices. It cannot be held within a single mind, or be expressed by \"a single mouth\". The polyphonic truth requires many simultaneous voices. Bakhtin does not mean to say that many voices carry partial truths that complement each other. A number of different voices do not make the truth if simply \"averaged\" or \"synthesized\". Rather, it is the fact of mutual addressivity, of engagement, and of commitment to the context of a real-life event, that distinguishes understanding from misunderstanding.\n\nAfter Bakhtin's \"Problems of Dostoevsky’s Art (1929)\" was translated into English and published in the West, a chapter on the concept of \"carnival\" was added to the book which was published with the slightly different title, \"Problems of Dostoevsky’s Poetics (1984)\". According to Bakhtin, \"carnival\" is the context in which distinct individual voices are heard, flourish and interact together. The carnival creates the \"threshold\" situations where regular conventions are broken or reversed and genuine dialogue becomes possible. The notion of a carnival was Bakhtin's way of describing Dostoevsky's polyphonic style: each individual character is strongly defined, and at the same time the reader witnesses the critical influence of each character upon the other. That is to say, the voices of others are heard by each individual, and each inescapably shapes the character of the other.\n\nDuring World War II Bakhtin submitted a dissertation on the French Renaissance writer François Rabelais which was not defended until some years later. The controversial ideas discussed within the work caused much disagreement, and it was consequently decided that Bakhtin be denied his higher doctorate. Thus, due to its content, \"Rabelais and Folk Culture of the Middle Ages and Renaissance\" was not published until 1965, at which time it was given the title \"Rabelais and His World\" (Russian: Творчество Франсуа Рабле и народная культура средневековья и Ренессанса, \"Tvorčestvo Fransua Rable i narodnaja kul'tura srednevekov'ja i Renessansa\").\nIn \"Rabelais and His World\", a classic of Renaissance studies, Bakhtin concerns himself with the openness of \"Gargantua and Pantagruel\"; however, the book itself also serves as an example of such openness. Throughout the text, Bakhtin attempts two things: he seeks to recover sections of \"Gargantua and Pantagruel\" that, in the past, were either ignored or suppressed, and conducts an analysis of the Renaissance social system in order to discover the balance between language that was permitted and language that was not. It is by means of this analysis that Bakhtin pinpoints two important subtexts: the first is \"carnival\" (carnivalesque) which Bakhtin describes as a social institution, and the second is \"grotesque realism\" which is defined as a literary mode. Thus, in \"Rabelais and His World\" Bakhtin studies the interaction between the social and the literary, as well as the meaning of the body and the material bodily lower stratum.\n\nIn his chapter on the history of laughter, Bakhtin advances the notion of its therapeutic and liberating force, arguing that \"laughing truth ... degraded power\".\n\n\"The Dialogic Imagination\" (first published as a whole in 1975) is a compilation of four essays concerning language and the essay: \"Epic and Novel\" (1941), \"From the Prehistory of Novelistic Discourse\" (1940), \"Forms of Time and of the Chronotope in the Novel\" (1937–1938), and \"Discourse in the Novel\" (1934–1935). It is through the essays contained within \"The Dialogic Imagination\" that Bakhtin introduces the concepts of \"heteroglossia\", \"dialogism\" and \"chronotope\", making a significant contribution to the realm of literary scholarship. Bakhtin explains the generation of meaning through the \"primacy of context over text\" (heteroglossia), the hybrid nature of language (polyglossia) and the relation between utterances (intertextuality). Heteroglossia is \"the base condition governing the operation of meaning in any utterance.\" To make an utterance means to \"appropriate the words of others and populate them with one's own intention.\" Bakhtin's deep insights on dialogicality represent a substantive shift from views on the nature of language and knowledge by major thinkers such as Ferdinand de Saussure and Immanuel Kant.\n\nIn \"Epic and Novel\", Bakhtin demonstrates the novel's distinct nature by contrasting it with the epic. By doing so, Bakhtin shows that the novel is well-suited to the post-industrial civilization in which we live because it flourishes on diversity. It is this same diversity that the epic attempts to eliminate from the world. According to Bakhtin, the novel as a genre is unique in that it is able to embrace, ingest, and devour other genres while still maintaining its status as a novel. Other genres, however, cannot emulate the novel without damaging their own distinct identity.\n\n\"From the Prehistory of Novelistic Discourse\" is a less traditional essay in which Bakhtin reveals how various different texts from the past have ultimately come together to form the modern novel.\n\n\"Forms of Time and of the Chronotope in the Novel\" introduces Bakhtin's concept of chronotope. This essay applies the concept in order to further demonstrate the distinctive quality of the novel. The word \"chronotope\" literally means \"time space\" (a concept he refers to that of Einstein) and is defined by Bakhtin as \"the intrinsic connectedness of temporal and spatial relationships that are artistically expressed in literature.\" For the purpose of his writing, an author must create entire worlds and, in doing so, is forced to make use of the organizing categories of the real world in which he lives. For this reason \"chronotope\" is a concept that engages reality.\n\nThe final essay, \"Discourse in the Novel\", is one of Bakhtin's most complete statements concerning his philosophy of language. It is here that Bakhtin provides a model for a history of discourse and introduces the concept of heteroglossia. The term \"heteroglossia\" refers to the qualities of a language that are extralinguistic, but common to all languages. These include qualities such as perspective, evaluation, and ideological positioning. In this way most languages are incapable of neutrality, for every word is inextricably bound to the context in which it exists.\n\nIn \"Speech Genres and Other Late Essays\" Bakhtin moves away from the novel and concerns himself with the problems of method and the nature of culture. There are six essays that comprise this compilation: \"Response to a Question from the \"Novy Mir\" Editorial Staff\", \"The \"Bildungsroman\" and Its Significance in the History of Realism\", \"The Problem of Speech Genres\", \"The Problem of the Text in Linguistics, Philology, and the Human Sciences: An Experiment in Philosophical Analysis\", \"From Notes Made in 1970-71,\" and \"Toward a Methodology for the Human Sciences.\"\n\n\"Response to a Question from the \"Novy Mir\" Editorial Staff\" is a transcript of comments made by Bakhtin to a reporter from a monthly journal called \"Novy Mir\" that was widely read by Soviet intellectuals. The transcript expresses Bakhtin's opinion of literary scholarship whereby he highlights some of its shortcomings and makes suggestions for improvement.\n\n\"The \"Bildungsroman\" and Its Significance in the History of Realism\" is a fragment from one of Bakhtin's lost books. The publishing house to which Bakhtin had submitted the full manuscript was blown up during the German invasion and Bakhtin was in possession of only the prospectus. However, due to a shortage of paper, Bakhtin began using this remaining section to roll cigarettes. So only a portion of the opening section remains. This remaining section deals primarily with Goethe.\n\n\"The Problem of Speech Genres\" deals with the difference between Saussurean linguistics and language as a living dialogue (translinguistics). In a relatively short space, this essay takes up a topic about which Bakhtin had planned to write a book, making the essay a rather dense and complex read. It is here that Bakhtin distinguishes between literary and everyday language. According to Bakhtin, genres exist not merely in language, but rather in communication. In dealing with genres, Bakhtin indicates that they have been studied only within the realm of rhetoric and literature, but each discipline draws largely on genres that exist outside both rhetoric and literature. These extraliterary genres have remained largely unexplored. Bakhtin makes the distinction between primary genres and secondary genres, whereby primary genres legislate those words, phrases, and expressions that are acceptable in everyday life, and secondary genres are characterized by various types of text such as legal, scientific, etc.\n\n\"The Problem of the Text in Linguistics, Philology, and the Human Sciences: An Experiment in Philosophical Analysis\" is a compilation of the thoughts Bakhtin recorded in his notebooks. These notes focus mostly on the problems of the text, but various other sections of the paper discuss topics he has taken up elsewhere, such as speech genres, the status of the author, and the distinct nature of the human sciences. However, \"The Problem of the Text\" deals primarily with dialogue and the way in which a text relates to its context. Speakers, Bakhtin claims, shape an utterance according to three variables: the object of discourse, the immediate addressee, and a \"superaddressee\". This is what Bakhtin describes as the tertiary nature of dialogue.\n\n\"From Notes Made in 1970-71\" appears also as a collection of fragments extracted from notebooks Bakhtin kept during the years of 1970 and 1971. It is here that Bakhtin discusses interpretation and its endless possibilities. According to Bakhtin, humans have a habit of making narrow interpretations, but such limited interpretations only serve to weaken the richness of the past.\n\nThe final essay, \"Toward a Methodology for the Human Sciences\", originates from notes Bakhtin wrote during the mid-seventies and is the last piece of writing Bakhtin produced before he died. In this essay he makes a distinction between dialectic and dialogics and comments on the difference between the text and the aesthetic object. It is here also, that Bakhtin differentiates himself from the Formalists, who, he felt, underestimated the importance of content while oversimplifying change, and the Structuralists, who too rigidly adhered to the concept of \"code.\"\n\nSome of the works which bear the names of Bakhtin's close friends V. N. Vološinov and P. N. Medvedev have been attributed to Bakhtin – particularly \"Marxism and Philosophy of Language\" and \"The Formal Method in Literary Scholarship\". These claims originated in the early 1970s and received their earliest full articulation in English in Clark and Holquist's 1984 biography of Bakhtin. In the years since then, however, most scholars have come to agree that Vološinov and Medvedev ought to be considered the true authors of these works. Although Bakhtin undoubtedly influenced these scholars and may even have had a hand in composing the works attributed to them, it now seems clear that if it was necessary to attribute authorship of these works to one person, Vološinov and Medvedev respectively should receive credit.\nBakhtin had a difficult life and career, and few of his works were published in an authoritative form during his lifetime. As a result, there is substantial disagreement over matters that are normally taken for granted: in which discipline he worked (was he a philosopher or literary critic?), how to periodize his work, and even which texts he wrote (see below). He is known for a series of concepts that have been used and adapted in a number of disciplines: dialogism, the carnivalesque, the chronotope, heteroglossia and \"outsidedness\" (the English translation of a Russian term \"vnenakhodimost,\" sometimes rendered into English—from French rather than from Russian—as \"exotopy\"). Together these concepts outline a distinctive philosophy of language and culture that has at its center the claims that all discourse is in essence a dialogical exchange and that this endows all language with a particular ethical or ethico-political force.\n\nAs a literary theorist, Bakhtin is associated with the Russian Formalists, and his work is compared with that of Yuri Lotman; in 1963 Roman Jakobson mentioned him as one of the few intelligent critics of Formalism. During the 1920s, Bakhtin's work tended to focus on ethics and aesthetics in general. Early pieces such as \"Towards a Philosophy of the Act\" and \"Author and Hero in Aesthetic Activity\" are indebted to the philosophical trends of the time—particularly the Marburg School Neo-Kantianism of Hermann Cohen, including Ernst Cassirer, Max Scheler and, to a lesser extent, Nicolai Hartmann. Bakhtin began to be discovered by scholars in 1963, but it was only after his death in 1975 that authors such as Julia Kristeva and Tzvetan Todorov brought Bakhtin to the attention of the Francophone world, and from there his popularity in the United States, the United Kingdom, and many other countries continued to grow. In the late 1980s, Bakhtin's work experienced a surge of popularity in the West.\n\nBakhtin's primary works include \"Toward a Philosophy of the Act,\" an unfinished portion of a philosophical essay; \"Problems of Dostoyevsky’s Art,\" to which Bakhtin later added a chapter on the concept of carnival and published with the title \"Problems of Dostoyevsky’s Poetics\"; \"Rabelais and His World,\" which explores the openness of the Rabelaisian novel; \"The Dialogic Imagination,\" whereby the four essays that comprise the work introduce the concepts of dialogism, heteroglossia, and chronotope; and \"Speech Genres and Other Late Essays,\" a collection of essays in which Bakhtin concerns himself with method and culture.\n\nIn the 1920s there was a \"Bakhtin school\" in Russia, in line with the discourse analysis of Ferdinand de Saussure and Roman Jakobson.\n\nHe is known today for his interest in a wide variety of subjects, ideas, vocabularies, and periods, as well as his use of authorial disguises, and for his influence (alongside György Lukács) on the growth of Western scholarship on the novel as a premiere literary genre. As a result of the breadth of topics with which he dealt, Bakhtin has influenced such Western schools of theory as Neo-Marxism, Structuralism, Social constructionism, and Semiotics. Bakhtin's works have also been useful in anthropology, especially theories of ritual. However, his influence on such groups has, somewhat paradoxically, resulted in narrowing the scope of Bakhtin's work. According to Clark and Holquist, rarely do those who incorporate Bakhtin's ideas into theories of their own appreciate his work in its entirety.\n\nWhile Bakhtin is traditionally seen as a literary critic, there can be no denying his impact on the realm of rhetorical theory. Among his many theories and ideas Bakhtin indicates that style is a developmental process, occurring both within the user of language and language itself. His work instills in the reader an awareness of tone and expression that arises from the careful formation of verbal phrasing. By means of his writing, Bakhtin has enriched the experience of verbal and written expression which ultimately aids the formal teaching of writing. Some even suggest that Bakhtin introduces a new meaning to rhetoric because of his tendency to reject the separation of language and ideology. As Leslie Baxter explains, for Bakhtin, “Because all language use is riddled with multiple voices (to be understood more generally as discourses, ideologies, perspectives, or themes), meaning-making in general can be understood as the interplay of those voices.”\n\nBakhtin's communication legacy reaches beyond rhetoric, social constructionism and semiotics as he has been called \"the philosopher of human communication.\" Bakhtin “concentrates heavily on language and its general use.\" Leslie Baxter observes: “Communication scholars have much to gain from conversing with Bakhtin’s dialogism.\" Kim argues that “theories of human communication through verbal dialogue or literary representations” such as the ones Bakhtin studied “will apply to virtually every academic discipline in the human sciences.\" Bakhtin's theories on dialogism influence interpersonal communication research, and \"dialogism represents a methodological turn towards the messy reality of communication, in all its many language forms.” In order to understand Bakhtin as a communication scholar one must take all forms of communication into account. While Bakhtin's works focused primarily on text, interpersonal communication is also key, especially when the two are related in terms of culture. Kim states that “culture as Geertz and Bakhtin allude to can be generally transmitted through communication or reciprocal interaction such as a dialogue.”\n\n“Any concrete utterance is a link in the chain of speech communication of a particular sphere. The very boundaries of the utterance are determined by a change of speech subjects. Utterances are not indifferent to one another, and are not self-sufficient; they are aware of and mutually reflect one another... Every utterance must be regarded as primarily a response to preceding utterances of the given sphere (we understand the word ‘response’ here in the broadest sense). Each utterance refutes affirms, supplements, and relies upon the others, presupposes them to be known, and somehow takes them into account... Therefore, each kind of utterance is filled with various kinds of responsive reactions to other utterances of the given sphere of speech communication.\" This is reminiscent of the inter-personal theory of communication turn-taking. This means that every utterance is related to another utterance, true to turn-taking in which the conversational norms are followed in order for a conversation to have a cohesive flow in which individuals respond to one another. If, for example, an utterance does not pertain to a previous utterance then a conversation is not occurring. However, the utterance will likely pertain to an utterance that the individual once heard- meaning it is, in fact, interrelated, just not in the context of that particular conversation. As Kim explains, “the entire world can be viewed as polyglossic or multi-voiced since every individual possesses their own unique world view which must be taken into consideration through dialogical interaction.\" This world view must be considered when a conversation is occurring in order to better understand its cultural and communicative significance.\n\n“Bakhtin’s life work can be understood as a critique of the monologization of the human experience that he perceived in the dominant linguistic, literary, philosophical, and political theories of his time.\" True to his roots of social constructionism and post-modernism Bakhtin “was critical of efforts to reduce the unfinalizable, open, and multivocal process of meaning-making in determinate, closed, totalizing ways.\" According to Bakhtin, the meaning found in any dialogue is unique to the sender and recipient based upon their personal understanding of the world as influenced by the socio-cultural background. “Bakhtin’s dialogism opens up space for communication scholars to conceive of difference in new ways” meaning they must take the background of a subject into consideration when conducting research into their understanding of any text as “a dialogic perspective argues that difference (of all kinds) is basic to the human experience.\" Kim argues that “his ideas of art as a vehicle oriented towards interaction with its audience in order to express or communicate any sort of intention is reminiscent of Clifford Geertz’s theories on culture.\" Culture and communication become inextricably linked to one another as one's understanding, according to Bakhtin, of a given utterance, text, or message, is contingent upon their culture background and experience.\n\nSheckels contends that \"what [... Bakhtin] terms the ‘carnivalesque’ is tied to the body and the public exhibition of its more private functions [...] it served also as a communication event [...] anti-authority communication events [...] can also be deemed ‘carnivalesque’.” Essentially, the act of turning society around through communication, whether it be in the form of text, protest, or otherwise serves as a communicative form of carnival, according to Bakhtin. Steele furthers the idea of carnivalesque in communication as she argues that it is found in corporate communication. Steele states “that ritualized sales meetings, annual employee picnics, retirement roasts and similar corporate events fit the category of carnival.” Carnival cannot help but be linked to communication and culture as Steele points out that “in addition to qualities of inversion, ambivalence, and excess, carnival’s themes typically include a fascination with the body, particularly its little-glorified or 'lower strata' parts, and dichotomies between ‘high’ or ‘low’.”. The high and low binary is particularly relevant in communication as certain verbiage is considered high, while slang is considered low. Moreover, much of popular communication including television shows, books, and movies fall into high and low brow categories. This is particularly prevalent in Bakhtin's native Russia, where postmodernist writers such as Boris Akunin have worked to change low brow communication forms (such as the mystery novel) into higher literary works of art by making constant references to one of Bakhtin's favorite subjects, Dostoyevsky.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1646101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1646101", "title": "Mukluk", "text": "Mukluk\n\nMukluks or Kamik (Inuktitut: ᑲᒥᒃ ) (singular: ᑲᒪᒃ \"kamak\", plural: ᑲᒦᑦ \"kamiit\") are a soft boot, traditionally made of reindeer (caribou) skin or sealskin, and worn by Arctic aboriginal people, including the Inuit, Iñupiat, and Yupik. \n\nMukluks may be worn over an inner boot liner and under a protective overshoe. The term \"mukluk\" is often used for any soft boot designed for cold weather, and modern designs may use both traditional and modern materials. The word \"mukluk\" is of Iñupiat and Yupik origin, from \"maklak\", the bearded seal, while \"kamik\" is an Inuit word. In the Inuipiaq language the \"u\" makes an \"oo\" sound, and so the spelling \"maklak\" is used with the same pronunciation.\n\nAnother type of boot, sometimes called an Inuit boot, originating in Greenland and the eastern part of Alaska, is made by binding it with animal cartilage, and has a centre seam running down to the foot of the boot.\n\nAnother type has a soft leather sole, but the upper is knitted out of wool or a wool-rayon blend. Often called \"Slipper Socks\", these are traditionally worn by the people of the Hindu Kush Mountains.\n\nAs mukluks are soft-soled, and flex with the feet, they allow hunters to move very quietly. A wearer can run, tip-toe, and even dance in mukluks.\n\nMukluks weigh little. While, for instance, U.S. Marine extreme-cold-weather boots weigh eight pounds (4kg), soft-soled boots made using modern materials weigh less than a tenth of that. Because mukluks weigh little, there is no need for heavy lacing; friction is enough to hold them on the foot. Some mukluks are very lightly laced (through external loops sewn into the seams, so as not to leak). They may be laced over the arch of the foot, or around the top of the boot to stiffen it. Many, however, have no lacing to constrict the circulation and make the foot cold. The top of the boot stands up somewhat stiffly, and may be open at the top, which allows moisture to escape.\n\nThe design of the mukluk is used for the industrial manufacture of cold-weather boots, especially paired with a rugged contemporary sole. The key component of its success is its ability to breathe, that is, to allow air exchange. This is an advantage in extremely cold conditions where perspiration may become a factor in frostbite on one's feet. The bulkiness paired with their poor performance in slush makes them less ideal for the casual winter wearer.\n\nMukluks are often made with a wrapped sole, so that the seam around the sole is on the top and sides of the boot, not on the bottom edge. This helps avoid wear on the seams and leaks. \n\nKamiks made for cold, dry winter weather may have fur low down on the outside, and other features that would be a problem when not on dry, powdery snow. Kamiks for warm, slushy, muddy, or open-ocean conditions are stitched finely from waterproof sealskin (see illustration, top left). Blind-stitching (not piercing the full depth of the skin) with sinew, which shrinks when wet, helps keep mukluks watertight. Commercial boots of modern materials will often require seam-sealing after purchase if they are to be fully waterproof.\n\nUsually, the uppers of summer kamik are made ringed seal skin, while the soles are made of bearded seal, which is tougher. The skin requires laborious preparation. Winter kamik are often made of caribou leg fur; caribou, unlike seals, rely on fur rather than blubber for insulation, so their fur is warmer.\n\nThe short overshoes may also be made waterproof for wet conditions or furry and grippy for dry ones.\n\nFor insulation, mukluks may be lined with furs such as caribou, rabbit, fox and raccoon. Down, polyester, and closed-celled EVA foam is also used in soft-soled boots. The inner boot is often made with the fur facing inwards. It may also be made of textile.\n\nMukluks may be adorned with pompons, beads, embroidery, and other methods.\n\nAfter a year's storage, traditional skin kamiks tend to stiffen and need to be worked and stretched to make them pliable again.\n\n"}
{"id": "33343917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33343917", "title": "Nazl el sourour", "text": "Nazl el sourour\n\nNazl el-Sourour (also spelled \"Nazl es-Surur\", \"Nazel el-Surour\", etc.; , literally \"Happiness Hotel\") is a musical play created by Lebanese playwright and composer Ziad Rahbani.\n\n\n\"Zakaria\" (Ziad) is an unemployed and penniless horse-racing betting addict. He is kicked out from his house by his wife Suraya and forced to choose a poor-man's motel called \"Nazl es-Surur\".\n\nMuch to his dismay, the motel is raided by two laid-off factory workers during his first night stay. The insurgents Abbas and Fahed, armed with machine guns and dynamite take the residents hostage. Abbas and Fahed were fired from their work because they were pushing co-workers to go on strike and they chose to take a \"revolutionary\" approach. Things go downhill from there on.\n\n\"Nazl es-Surur\" was Ziad's second play after \"Sahriyya\" (An evening's celebration - 1973) but unlike the Rahbani movement conforming \"Sahriyya\", \"Nazl es-Surur\" came to stand in contrast to the prevalent folklore orientation and theatricality of the works of his parents; it marked Ziad's ideological and artistic definitive break from the Rahbani school of thought.\n\nThe play was considered as an augury to the Lebanese Civil War which erupted in 1975, but Ziad himself rejected this view, affirming that it was based on a real life incident, the taking of hostages at the Beirut branch of the Bank of America.\n\nAlthough made in 1974, the play is still popular among Lebanese people and in the Arabic world notably for its songs and script; in fact Ziad had introduced a new kind of language-based humor that was unprecedented in Lebanese theater. Fragments of dialogue from \"Nazl es-Surur\" and later Ziad plays continue to be used today and have become a part of the Lebanese pop-culture. The \"Zakaria\" character reappears with his wife \"Souraya\" in the 1978 play \"Bennesbe la bokra shou?\" (What do we need to do tomorrow?).\n\nThis play was Ziad's first real appearance, which was performed in Cinema Orly theater. Fairouz was impressed by the song \"Ba'atelak\" (which reminds us of the period of the late Egyptian singer Mounira El Mahdeya), to the extent that she re-taped that song with her voice after it was sung by a second class singer in the beginning of the seventies.\n"}
{"id": "50225077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50225077", "title": "Obi-Rakhmat Grotto", "text": "Obi-Rakhmat Grotto\n\nThe Obi-Rakhmat Grotto is a Middle Paleolithic prehistoric site that yielded Neanderthal fossils. It is a shallow karst cave near the junction of the Chatkal and Pskem Rivers at the southwestern end of the Talassky Alatau Range in the Tien Shan Mountains, northeast of Tashkent, Uzbekistan.\n\nThe Obi-Rakhmat Grotto was discovered in 1962 by a team from the Institute of History and Archaeology of Uzbekistan, headed by A. R. Mukhamedzhanov. Initial excavations were carried out under the supervision of M. M. Gerasimov and H. K. Nasretdinov and from 1964 to 1965 by R. H. Suleimanov. An international multidisciplinary team resumed excavations in 1998 under the direction of Anatoly Derevyanko, Andrei Krivoshapkin and Patrick Wrinn.\n\nThe cave is long, wide at the entrance and high and sitting at an elevation of ,\n\nThe sequence of deposits has a depth of about and divides into 22 stratigraphic units, based on texture and archaeological content. The rich assemblages of lithic artifacts suggest prolonged Neanderthal occupation.\n\nObi-Rakhmat's tool industry differs in only minor ways from the classic and elongated Levallois points of Kara-Bom. Obi-Rakhmat's finds share features of both the late Middle Paleolithic and the early Upper Paleolithic artifacts of Southwest Asia and the Altai Mountains. It appears that the Upper Paleolithic in the Altai emerged from a local Middle Paleolithic culture established in the area around 100,000 to 50,000 years ago. Based on material of the most recent excavations from 2007 to 2009 there is reason to assume that the Obi-Rakhmat lithic artefacts represent a transitional Middle-to-Upper Paleolithic industry.\n\nStratum 19 seems to represent a series of exceptionally intensive occupational episodes because of the high density of finds and the presence of charcoal, burnt bones and artefacts.\n\n(Uranium-thorium datings of travertine sediments range between 70,000–100,000 years BP. These results are less secure due to the high uranium content and the presence of detritus, which contaminates dated sediments. ESR analysis of tooth enamel for eight Bovidae give an age estimation of ca. 57,000 to 73,000 years BP (strata 12–14) and ca. 87,000 years BP (basal stratum 21.1). The preliminary results of OSL dating on sediments from several profile locations gave uniform ages for all cultural successions: stratum 5.1 (56,000 ± 3200 years), stratum 8.1 (60,100 ± 3000 years), and stratum 21.2 (61,400 ± 3600 years):\n\nParts of the sequence is beyond the limit of sensitivity of the C dating method. However layer 9, dated to 42,100 years BP is well within the limit. Possibly, the age of layer 14.1 (48,800 years BP) may be a minimal estimate, but more study is necessary to precisely determine the age. The true age of layer 14 at Obi-Rakhmat site is still open to discussion.\n\nThe faunal assemblage is dominated by the Siberian mountain goat (\"Capra sibirica\") and red deer (\"Cervus elaphus\"), which constitute 90% of the identified fossils. Other faunal remains include sheep (\"Ovis\" sp.), wild boar (\"Sus scrofa\"), fox (\"Vulpes vulpes\") and marmot (\"Marmota sp\".). Carnivore remains are rare.\n\nEvidence of human modification of the bones including cut marks, conchoidal impact, scars and burning, is consistently present. The lithic artefacts and faunal remains recovered at Obi-Rakhmat suggest that the site was repeatedly used by hominins as a short-term hunting and butchery station.\n\nIn 2003, hominin remains were recovered from stratum 16. They consist of 6 isolated permanent upper teeth and 121 cranial fragments from a single juvenile.\n\nSix isolated permanent teeth were found. They consisted of an upper lateral incisor, upper third premolar, upper fourth premolar, upper first molar, and an upper second molar, as well as 121 cranial fragments. All of the teeth found had complete crowns with developed roots. The varying size of the roots in each tooth make it difficult to determine if they are damaged, or the length they are because of development. It was determined that all of the pieces belonged to a 9-12-year-old juvenile. The sex of this particular fossil remains unknown. The teeth found have Neanderthal features, as some of them show Taurodontism, which is primarily found in the Neanderthal morphology. Studies of the pieces of cranium found are more ambiguous and harder to link to Neanderthals. The Parietal bone has a stronger likeness to anatomically modern humans, while other bones of the skull can be linked to Neanderthal craniums. Most researchers believe that this particular fossil is a Neanderthal because of the analysis of its dentition.\n\nThe Obi-Rakhmat fossil expresses a relatively Neanderthal-like dentition coupled with more ambiguous cranial anatomy (e.g., its parietal size and aspects of the external surface of its temporal) that does not conform to existing descriptions of sub-adult Neanderthals. It represents an individual of roughly 9 to 12 years of age at death, estimated from the examination of relative root development and degree of dental wear.\n\nThe sub-adult bone yielded non-calibrated dates ranging from 29,990 ± 500 years BP to 37,800 ± 450 years BP. To date, the best chronological estimate for the hominid remains from Obi-Rakhmat is ca. 60,000 to 90,000 years BP and 70,000 years BP.\n\nThe mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) sequences from the Obi-Rakhmat sub-adult (OR-1) and Teshik Tash child fall within the European Neanderthal mtDNA variation, showing that both individuals belonged to a population related to European and western Asian Neanderthals. However, the Teshik Tash mtDNA sequence seems to be more closely related to the mtDNA sequence from Scladina in western Europe than to the sequence from Okladnikov Cave. The absence of deep mtDNA divergence shows that Central Asian, Caucasian and European Neanderthals were not separated for a long time, supporting the view that Central Asia (most of the Russian plains) was relatively recently colonized by Neanderthals, maybe not before an exceptionally warm episode 125,000 years ago.\n\n"}
{"id": "28350858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28350858", "title": "Paleofeces", "text": "Paleofeces\n\nPaleofeces (UK: Palaeofaeces) are ancient human feces, often found as part of archaeological excavations or surveys. The term coprolite is often used interchangeably. Intact feces of ancient people may be found in caves in arid climates and in other locations with suitable preservation conditions. They are studied to determine the diet and health of the people who produced them through the analysis of seeds, small bones, and parasite eggs found inside. The feces can contain information about the person excreting the material as well as information about the material itself. They can also be chemically analyzed for more in-depth information on the individual who excreted them, using lipid analysis and ancient DNA analysis. The success rate of usable DNA extraction is relatively high in paleofeces, making it more reliable than skeletal DNA retrieval.\nThe reason this analysis is possible at all is due to the digestive system not being entirely efficient, in the sense that not everything that passes through the digestive system is destroyed. Not all of the surviving material is recognizable, but some of it is. This material is generally the best indicator archaeologists can use to determine ancient diets, as no other part of the archaeological record is as direct an indicator.\n\nThe process that preserves the feces in a way such that they can be analyzed later is called the Maillard reaction. This reaction creates a casing of sugar that preserves the feces from the elements. To extract and analyze the information contained within, researchers generally have to freeze the feces and grind it up into powder for analysis.\n\nAnalysis of archaeological feces has a relatively short history compared to many other archaeological materials. The founder of the discipline is Dr. Eric O. Callen, who pioneered the subject in the late 1950s to mid-1960s. His early papers used coprolite analysis to investigate early Mexican diets, published in The Prehistory of the Tehuacan Valley: Environment, and Subsistence. Despite his work showing promise, archaeological coprolite studies remained a niche topic, with few other researchers becoming involved. After Callen's sudden death in 1970, his work was continued by Vaughn Bryant at Texas A&M University, Department of Anthropology. Coprolite analysis gradually became a topic of serious study. Today coprolite analysis in archaeology has increased exponentially, and they have provided important evidence concerning the evolution of human health and diet, in the Americas and other parts of the world. One of the most famous examples is the coprolite from Paisley Caves, Oregon, which has provided some of the earliest evidence for the human occupation of North America.\n\nA wide variety of methods can be used to analyse ancient feces, ranging from microscopic to molecular. At a basic level the analysis of size and morphology can provide some information on whether they are likely to be human or from another animal. Analyzed contents can include those visible to the naked eye, such as seeds and other plant remains—to the microscopic, including pollen and phytoliths. Parasites in coprolites can give information on the living conditions and health of ancient populations. At the molecular level, ancient DNA analysis can be used both to identify the species and to provide dietary information. A method using lipid analysis can also be used for species identification, based on the range of fecal sterols and bile acids. These molecules vary between species according to gut biochemistry, and so can distinguish between humans and other animals.\n\nAn example of researchers using paleofeces for the gathering of information using DNA analysis occurred at Hinds Cave in Texas by Hendrik Poinar and his team. The fecal samples obtained were over 2,000 years old. From the samples, Poinar was able to gather DNA samples using the analysis methods recounted above. From his research Poinar found that the feces belonged to three Native Americans, based on mtDNA similarities to present day Native Americans. Poinar also found DNA evidence of the food they ate. There were samples of buckthorn, acorns, ocotillo, nightshade and wild tobacco. No visible remnants of these plants were visible in the fecal matter. Along with plant material, there were also DNA sequences of animal species such as bighorn sheep and pronghorn antelope, both of which lack any evidence elsewhere in Hinds Cave, indicating that they were killed and consumed elsewhere.\n\nThis analysis of the diet was very helpful. Previously it was assumed that this population of Native Americans survived with berries being their main source of nutrients. From the paleofeces, it was determined that these assumptions were incorrect and in the approximately 2 days of food that are represented in a fecal sample, 2-4 animal species and 4-8 plant species were represented. The nutritional diversity of this archaic human population was rather extraordinary.\n\nAn example of the use of lipid analysis for identification of species is at the Neolithic site of Catalhoyuk in Turkey. Large midden deposits at the site are frequently found to contain fecal material either as distinct coprolites or compressed 'cess pit' deposits. This was initially thought to be from dog on the basis of digested bone, however an analysis of the lipid profiles showed that many of the coprolites were actually from humans.\n\nThe analysis of parasites from fecal material within cesspits has provided evidence for health and migration in past populations. For example, the identification of fish tapeworm eggs in Acre in the Crusader period indicate that this parasite was transported from northern Europe. The parasite was rarely seen in the Levant area during this time but was common in Northern Europe. It is suggested that it was brought to the region by the incoming Europeans.\n\n"}
{"id": "11328678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11328678", "title": "Political theology", "text": "Political theology\n\nPolitical theology investigates the ways in which theological concepts or ways of thinking relate to politics, society, and economics. It has often been affiliated with Christianity, but since the 21st century, it has more recently been discussed with relation to other religions.\n\nThe term \"political theology\" is often used to denote religious thought about political principled questions. Scholars such as Carl Schmitt use it to denote religious concepts that were secularized and thus became key political concepts. Another term which often occupies similar space in academic discourse is \"public theology\". It is said that political theology is directed more towards the government or the state, whereas public theology is more towards civil society.\n\nThe term \"political theology\" has been used in a wide variety of ways by writers exploring different aspects of believers' relationship with politics. It has been used to discuss Augustine of Hippo's \"City of God\" and Thomas Aquinas's \"Summa Theologica\". It has likewise been used to describe the Eastern Orthodox view of \"symphonia\" and the works of the Protestant reformers Martin Luther and John Calvin. Though the political aspects of Christianity, Islam, Confucianism, and other traditions has been debated for millennia, political theology has been an academic discipline since the 20th century.\n\nThe recent use of the term is often associated with the work of Carl Schmitt. Writing amidst the turbulence of the German Weimar Republic, Schmitt argued in his essay \"Politische Theologie\" (1922) that the main concepts of modern politics were secularized versions of older theological concepts. Mikhail Bakunin had used the term in his 1871 text \"The Political Theology of Mazzini and the International\" to which Schmitt's book was a response. Drawing on Thomas Hobbes in \"Leviathan\" he argued that the state exists to maintain its own integrity in order to ensure order in society in times of crisis.\n\nSome have divided the approach of political theology between a rightist traditional concern with individual \"moral reform\" (such as Clyde Wilcox's \"God's Warriors\" [1992] and Ted Jelen's \"The Political World of the Clergy\" [1993]) and a leftist focus on collective \"social justice\" (such as Jeffrey K. Hadden's \"The Gathering Storm in the Churches\" [1969] and Harold Quinley's \"The Prophetic Clergy\" [1974]).\n\nKwok Pui-lan has argued that, while Schmitt may have come up with the term and its modern usage, political theologies were likewise forming along very different trajectories elsewhere around the world, such as in Asia. In China in the 1930s, for instance, the Protestant Wu Yaozong advocated that a social revolution was necessary to save both China and the world. This would likewise be true of the role of Protestants involved in Korean nationalism in the early twentieth century.\n\nMany major non-Christian philosophers have written extensively on the topic of political theology during recent years, such as Jürgen Habermas, Giorgio Agamben, Simon Critchley, and Slavoj Zizek. Since the early 21st century, there has also been a growing discourse around Islamic political theology, especially within Western contexts that were previously dominated by Christianity.\n\nPolitical theology in China includes responses from Chinese government leaders, scholars, and religious leaders who deal with the relationship between religion and politics. For two millennia, this was organized based on a Confucian understanding of religion and politics, often discussed in terms of Confucian political philosophy. At various points throughout its history, Chinese Buddhism presented an alternative to the political import of Confucianism. However, since the mid-twentieth century, communist understandings of religion have dominated the discourse.\n\nFor Christianity, this relationship can be seen from the religion's earliest encounters in the country during the imperial period, with the Church of the East's interaction with the Emperor Taizong and Jesuit missionaries in the Ming court. But it has developed the most in the 20th and 21st centuries after the establishments of the Republic of China and People's Republic of China, especially through the establishment of the Three-Self Patriotic Movement and rise of house churches.\n\nThe influence of the philosopher Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel (1770–1831) is also evident throughout much of German political theology. This is particularly clear in the work of the Roman Catholic theologian Johann Baptist Metz (born 1928) who explored the concept of political theology throughout his work. He argued for the concept of a \"suffering God\" who shared the pain of his creation, writing, \"Yet, faced with conditions in God's creation that cry out to heaven, how can the theology of the creator God avoid the suspicion of apathy unless it takes up the language of a suffering God?\" This leads Metz to develop a theology that is related to Marxism. He criticizes what he terms bourgeois Christianity and believes that the Christian Gospel has become less credible because it has become entangled with bourgeois religion. His work \"Faith in History and Society\" develops apologetics, or fundamental theology, from this perspective.\n\nTwo of the other major developers of political theology in Germany were Jürgen Moltmann and Dorothee Sölle. As in Metz' work, the concept of a suffering God is important to Moltmann's theological program. Moltmann's political theology was influenced strongly by the Marxist philosopher Ernst Bloch, and both Moltmann and Sölle were influenced heavily by liberation theology, as was Metz. Another early influence was the Frankfurt School of critical theory, especially Walter Benjamin, and the Frankfurt School's broader critique of modernity.\n\nChristian political theology in the Middle East is a religious response by Christian leaders and scholars to political problems. Political theologians try to balance the demands of a tumultuous region with the delicate but long history of Christianity in the Middle East. This has yielded a diversity of political theology disproportionate to the small size of Middle East Christian minorities. The region's importance to Christians worldwide – both for history and doctrinal authority for many denominations – also shapes the political theologies of the Middle East.\n\nFor many Christian leaders, the dominant approach to political theology is one of survival. Many Arab Christians see themselves as the heirs of a rich Christian heritage whose existence is threatened by regional unrest and religious persecution. Their chief political goal is survival, which sets their political theology apart.\n\nAt times, Arab Christian leaders have appealed to Christians outside the region through both denominational challenges and broader calls to Christian unity for humanitarian or political aid. In other cases, Christian politicians downplay their faith in the public sphere to avoid conflict with their Muslim neighbours.\n\nIn the mid-20th century, many Christians in the Middle East saw secular politics as a way out of their traditional status as a minority community in the Islamic world. Christians played prominent roles throughout the pan-Arab nationalist movement in the mid-20th century, where their experience with Western politics and generally high educational attainments made their contributions valuable to nationalist governments around the region. One prominent example was Michel Aflaq, an Eastern Orthodox Christian who formed the first Ba'ath group from students in Damascus in the 1940s. His belief was that Christians should embrace Islam as part of their cultural identity because nationalism was the best way for Christians to be successful in the Middle East.\n\nPolitical theology in sub-Saharan Africa deals with the relationship of theology and politics, arising from the anti-apartheid struggle in South Africa and nationalist campaigns of the mid to late twentieth century elsewhere. The increasing numbers of Christians in sub-Saharan Africa has led to an increased interest in Christian responses to the region's continuing issues of poverty, violence, and war. According to the Cameroonian theologian and sociologist Jean-Marc Éla, African Christianity \"has to be formulated from the struggles of our people, from their joys, from their pains, from their hopes and from their frustrations today.\" African theology is heavily influenced by liberation theology, global black theology, and postcolonial theology.\n\nNotable thinkers include Itumeleng Mosala, Jesse N. K. Mugambi, and Desmond Tutu.\n\nReinhold Niebuhr also developed a theology similar to Metz in the practical application of theology. During the 1930s, Niebuhr was a leader of the Socialist Party of America, and although he broke with the party later in life socialist thought is a prominent component of his development of Christian Realism. The work by Niebuhr that best exemplifies his relationship with political theology is \"Moral Man and Immoral Society: A Study of Ethics and Politics\" (1932).\n\nOne of the most influential developers of recent political theology is Stanley Hauerwas, though he considers his work to be better termed a \"theological politics\". Hauerwas has actively critiqued the political theology of both Reinhold Niebuhr and H. Richard Niebuhr, and has been a frequently critic of Christians' attempt to attain political power and align themselves with secular political ideologies. Moreoever, he has been a severe critic of liberal democracy, capitalism, and militarism, arguing that all of those ideologies are antithetical to Christian convictions.\n\n"}
{"id": "20446429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20446429", "title": "Rally 'round the flag effect", "text": "Rally 'round the flag effect\n\nThe rally 'round the flag effect (or syndrome) is a concept used in political science and international relations to explain increased short-run popular support of the President of the United States during periods of international crisis or war. Because rally 'round The Flag effect can reduce criticism of governmental policies, it can be seen as a factor of diversionary foreign policy.\n\nPolitical scientist John Mueller suggested the effect in 1970, in a landmark paper called \"Presidential Popularity from Truman to Johnson\". He defined it as coming from an event with three qualities:\n\n\nIn addition, Mueller created five categories of rallies. These categories are considered dated by modern political scientists, as they rely heavily on Cold War events. Mueller's five categories are:\n\n\nSince Mueller's original theories, two schools of thought have emerged to explain the causes of the effect. The first, \"The Patriotism School of Thought\" holds that in times of crisis, the American public sees the President as the embodiment of national unity. The second, \"The Opinion Leadership School\" believes that the rally emerges from a lack of criticism from members of the opposition party, most often in the United States Congress. If opposition party members appear to support the president, the media has no conflict to report, thus it appears to the public that all is well with the performance of the president. The two theories have both been criticized, but it is generally accepted that the Patriotism School of thought is better to explain causes of rallies, while the Opinion Leadership School of thought is better to explain duration of rallies. It is also believed that the lower the presidential approval rating before the crisis, the larger the increase will be in terms of percentage points because it leaves the president more room for improvement. For example, Franklin Roosevelt only had a 12% increase in approval from 72% to 84% following the Attack on Pearl Harbor, whereas George W. Bush had a 39% increase from 51% to 90% following the September 11 attacks.\n\nAnother theory about the cause of the effect is believed to be embedded in the US Constitution. Unlike in other countries, the constitution makes the President both head of government and head of state. Because of this, the president receives a temporary boost in popularity because his Head of State role gives him symbolic importance to the American people. However, as time goes on his duties as Head of Government require partisan decisions that polarize opposition parties and diminish popularity. This theory falls in line more with the Opinion Leadership School.\n\nDue to the highly statistical nature of presidential polls, University of Alabama political scientist John O'Neal has approached the study of rally 'round the flag using mathematics. O'Neal has postulated that the Opinion Leadership School is the more accurate of the two using mathematical equations. These equations are based on quantified factors such as the number of headlines from the New York Times about the crisis, the presence of bipartisan support or hostility, and prior popularity of the president.\n\nPolitical Scientist from The University of California Los Angeles, Matthew A. Baum found that the source of a rally 'round the flag effect is from independents and members of the opposition party shifting their support behind the President after the rallying effect. Baum also found that when the country is more divided or in a worse economic state then the rally effect is larger. This is because more people who are against the president before the rallying event switch to support him afterwards. When the country is divided before the rallying event there is a higher potential increase in support for the President after the rallying event.\n\nIn a study by Political Scientist Terrence L. Chapman and Dan Reiter, rallies in Presidential approval ratings were found to be bigger when there was U.N. Security Council supported Militarized interstate disputes (MIDs). Having U.N. Security Council support was found to increase the rally effect in presidential approval by 8 to 9 points compared to when there wasn't U.N. Security Council support.\n\nThe effect has been examined within the context of nearly every major foreign policy crisis since World War II. Some notable examples:\n\n\nThere are fears that the president will misuse the rally 'round the flag effect. These fears come from the \"diversionary theory of war\" in which the President creates an international crisis in order to distract from domestic affairs and to increase their approval ratings through a rally 'round the flag effect. The fear associated with this theory is that a President can create international crisis to avoid dealing with serious domestic issues or to increase their approval rating when it begins to drop.\n\n"}
{"id": "10029167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10029167", "title": "Rostam and Sohrab", "text": "Rostam and Sohrab\n\nThe tragedy of Rostam and Sohrab forms part of the 10th-century Persian epic Shahnameh by the Persian poet Ferdowsi. It tells the tragic story of the heroes Rostam and his son, Sohrab.\n\nRostam lived in Sistan, Iran (also known as Persia), hero and one of the favorites of King Kaykavous. Once, following the traces of his lost horse, he enters the kingdom of Samangan where he becomes the guest of the king during the search for his horse. There, Rostam meets princess Tahmina. She admires Rostam and knows of his reputation. She goes into his room at night and asks if he will give her a child and in return, she will bring his horse. Rostam leaves after he impregnates Tahmina and his horse is returned. Before he leaves, he gives her two tokens. If she has a girl, she is to take the jewel and plait it in the girl's hair. If she has a boy, she is to take the seal and bind it on the boy's arm. Nine months later, she bears his child—a son, whom she later names Sohrab. Years go by before Rostam and Sohrab meet. Finally, a new war between Persia and Turan is on the horizon. The two armies face each other and prepare for the imminent battle. By then, Sohrab has become known as the best fighter of Turan army. But Rostam's legend precedes him and the Turan army cowers before the hero. No one else dares to fight Rostam, so Sohrab is sent to wrestle with the legendary Khurasaan hero. Though Sohrab knows his father's name, he is unaware that the man before him is Rostam. On the battlefield, Rostam and Sohrab fight for what seems like an eternity, neither knowing the true name of his opponent.\n\nAfter a very long and heavy bout of wrestling, Rostam breaks Sohrab's back and stabs him. Sohrab, dying, tells Rostam that his father will avenge his death and only then do they realize their identities. Sohrab produces the necklace that Rostam once gave Tahmina, who gave it to her son to keep him safe during the war. Rostam grieves heavily but cannot save his son. When she finds out her son is dead, Tahmina burns Sohrab's house and gives away all his riches. Then \"the breath departed from out her body, and her spirit went forth after Sohrab her son.\"\n\n\n\n\n Rustam and Zorab, Ilya Repin, 1912"}
{"id": "473876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=473876", "title": "Shuowen Jiezi", "text": "Shuowen Jiezi\n\nShuowen Jiezi () was an early 2nd-century Chinese dictionary from the Han Dynasty. Although not the first comprehensive Chinese character dictionary (the \"Erya\" predates it), it was the first to analyze the structure of the characters and to give the rationale behind them, as well as the first to use the principle of organization by sections with shared components, called radicals (\"bùshǒu\" 部首, lit. \"section headers\").\n\nXu Shen, a Han Dynasty scholar of the Five Classics, compiled the \"Shuowen Jiezi\". He finished editing it in 100, but due to an unfavorable imperial attitude towards scholarship, he waited until 121 before having his son Xǔ Chōng present it to Emperor An of Han along with a memorial.\n\nIn analyzing the structure of characters and defining the words represented by them, Xu Shen strove to disambiguate the meaning of the pre-Han Classics, so as to render their usage by government unquestioned and bring about order, and in the process also deeply imbued his organization and analyses with his philosophy on characters and the universe. According to Boltz (1993:430), Xu's compilation of the \"Shuowen\" \"cannot be held to have arisen from a purely linguistic or lexicographical drive.\" His motives were more pragmatic and political. During the Han era, the prevalent theory of language was Confucianist Rectification of Names, the belief that using the correct names for things was essential for proper government. The postface (\"xù\" 敘) to the \"Shuowen Jiezi\" (tr. Thern 1966:17) explains: \"Now the written language is the foundation of classical learning, the source of kingly government.\" Compare how the postface describes the legendary invention of writing for governmental rather than for communicative purposes: \nCang Jie, scribe for the Yellow Emperor, on looking at the tracks of the feet of birds and animals, realizing that the patterns and forms were distinguishable, started to create graphs, so that all kinds of professions could be regulated, and all people could be kept under scrutiny. (tr. Thern 1966:17)\n\nPre-\"Shuowen\" Chinese dictionaries like the \"Erya\" and the \"Fangyan\" were limited lists of synonyms loosely organized by semantic categories, which made it difficult to look up characters. Xu Shen analytically organized characters in the comprehensive \"Shuowen Jiezi\" through their shared graphic components, which Boltz (1993:431) calls \"a major conceptual innovation in the understanding of the Chinese writing system.\"\n\nXu wrote the \"Shuowen Jiezi\" to analyze seal script (specifically \"xiǎozhuàn\" 小篆 \"small seal\") characters that evolved slowly and organically throughout the mid-to-late Zhou dynasty in the state of Qin, and which were then standardized during the Qin dynasty and promulgated empire-wide. Thus, Needham et al. (1986: 217) describe the \"Shuowen jiezi\" as \"a paleographic handbook as well as a dictionary\".\n\nThe dictionary includes a preface and 15 chapters. The first 14 chapters are character entries; the 15th and final chapter is divided into two parts: a postface and an index of section headers. Xǔ Shèn states in his postface that the dictionary has 9,353 character entries, plus 1,163 graphic variants, with a total length of 133,441 characters. The transmitted texts vary slightly in content, owing to omissions and emendations by commentators (especially Xú Xuàn, see below), and modern editions have 9,831 characters and 1,279 variants.\n\nXu Shen categorized Chinese characters into 540 sections, under \"section headers\" (\"bùshǒu\", now the standard linguistic and lexicographical term for character radicals): these may be entire characters or simplifications thereof, which also serve as components shared by all the characters in that section. The number of section headers, 540, numerologically equals 6 × 9 × 10, the product of the symbolic numbers of Yin and Yang and the number of the Heavenly Stems. The first section header was 一 (\"yī\" \"one; first\") and the last was 亥 (\"hài\", the last character of the Earthly Branches).\n\nXu's choice of sections appears in large part to have been driven by the desire to create an unbroken, systematic sequence among the headers themselves, such that each had a natural, intuitive relationship (e.g., structural, semantic or phonetic) with the ones before and after, as well as by the desire to reflect cosmology. In the process, he included many section headers that are not considered ones today, such as 炎 (\"yán\" \"flame\") and 熊 (\"xióng\" \"bear\"), which modern dictionaries list under the 火 or 灬 (\"huǒ\" \"fire\") heading. He also included as section headers all the sexagenary cycle characters, that is, the ten Heavenly Stems and twelve Earthly Branches. As a result, unlike modern dictionaries which attempt to maximize the number of characters under each section header, 34 \"Shuowen\" headers have no characters under them, while 159 have only one each. From a modern lexicographical perspective, Xu's system of 540 headings can seem \"enigmatic\" and \"illogical\". For instance, he included the singular section header 409 惢 (\"ruǐ\" \"doubt\"), with only one rare character (\"ruǐ\" 繠 \"stamen\"), instead of listing it under the common header 408 心 (\"xīn\" \"heart; mind\").\n\nThe typical \"Shuowen\" format for a character entry consists of a seal graph, a short definition (usually a single synonym, occasionally in a punning way as in the \"Shiming\"), a pronunciation given by citing a homophone, and analysis of compound graphs into semantic and/or phonetic components. Individual entries can additionally include graphic variants, secondary definitions, information on regional usages, citations from pre-Han texts, and further phonetic information, typically in \"dúruò\" (讀若 \"read like\") notation.\nIn addition to the seal graph, Xu included two kinds of variant graphs when they differed from the standard seal, called \"ancient script\" (\"gǔwén\" 古文) and \"Zhòu script\" (\"Zhòuwén\" 籀文, not to be confused with the Zhou dynasty).\n\nThe \"Zhòu\" characters were taken from the no-longer extant \"Shizhoupian\", an early copybook traditionally attributed to a Shĭ Zhòu, or Historian Zhou, in the court of King Xuan of Zhou (r. 827–782 BCE). Wang Guowei and Tang Lan argued that the structure and style of these characters suggested a later date, but some modern scholars such as Qiu Xigui argue for the original dating.\n\nThe \"guwen\" characters were based on the characters used in pre-Qin copies of the classics recovered from the walls of houses where they had been hidden to escape the burning of books ordered by Qin Shihuang. Xu believed that these were the most ancient characters available, since Confucius would have used the oldest characters to best convey the meaning of the texts. However, Wang Guowei and other scholars have shown that they were regional variant forms in the eastern areas during the Warring States period, from only slightly earlier than the Qin seal script.\n\nEven as copyists transcribed the main text of the book in clerical script in the late Han, and then in modern standard script in the centuries to follow, the small seal characters continued to be copied in their own (seal) script to preserve their structure, as were the \"guwen\" and \"Zhouwen\" characters.\n\nThe title of the work draws a basic distinction between two types of characters, \"wén\" 文 and \"zì\" 字, the former being those composed of a single graphic element (such as \"shān\" 山 \"mountain\"), and the latter being those containing more than one such element (such as \"hǎo\" 好 \"good\" with 女 \"woman\" and 子 \"child\") which can be deconstructed into and analyzed in terms of their component elements. Note that the character 文 itself exemplifies the category \"wén\" 文, while 字 (which is composed of 宀 and 子) exemplifies \"zì\" 字. Thus, \"Shuōwén Jiězì\" means \"commenting on\" (\"shuō\" \"speak; talk; comment; explain\") the \"wén\", which cannot be deconstructed, and \"analyzing\" (\"jiě\" \"untie; separate; divide; analyze; explain; deconstruct\") the \"zì\".\n\nAlthough the \"six principles\" of Chinese character classification (\"liùshū\" 六書 \"six graphs\") had been mentioned by earlier authors, Xu Shen's postface was the first work to provide definitions and examples. He uses the first two terms, simple indicatives (\"zhǐshì\" 指事) and pictograms (\"xiàngxíng\" 象形) to explicitly label character entries in the dictionary, e.g., in the typical pattern of \"(character) (definition) ...simple indicative\" (A B 也...指事 (也)). Logographs belonging to the third principle, phono-semantic compound characters (\"xíngshēng\" 形聲), are implicitly identified through the entry pattern \"A… from B, phonetically resembles C\" (\"A...從 B, C 聲\"), meaning that element B plays a semantic role in A, while C gives the sound. The fourth type, compound indicatives (\"huìyì\" 會意), are sometimes identified by the pattern \"A...from X from Y\" (\"A...從 X 從 Y\"), meaning that the compound A is given meaning through the graphic combination and interaction of both constituent elements. The last two of the six principles, borrowed characters (aka phonetic loan, \"jiǎjiè\" 假借) and derived characters (\"zhuǎnzhù\" 轉注), are not identifiable in the character definitions.\n\nAccording to Imre Galambos, the function of the \"Shuowen\" was educational. Since Han studies of writing are attested to have begun by pupils of 8 years old, Xu Shen's categorization of characters was proposed to be understood as a mnemonic methodology for juvenile students.\n\nAlthough the original Han dynasty \"Shuōwén Jiězì\" text has been lost, it was transmitted through handwritten copies for centuries. The oldest extant trace of it is a six-page manuscript fragment from the Tang dynasty, amounting to about 2% of the entire text. The fragment, now in Japan, concerns the \"mù\" (木) section header. The earliest post-Han scholar known to have researched and emended this dictionary, albeit badly, was Lǐ Yángbīng (李陽冰, fl. 765–780), who \"is usually regarded as something of a \"bête noire\" of [\"Shuowen\"] studies,\" writes Boltz, \"owing to his idiosyncratic and somewhat capricious editing of the text.\"\n\n\"Shuowen\" scholarship improved greatly during the Southern Tang-Song dynasties and later during the Qing dynasty. The most important Northern Song scholars were the Xú brothers, Xú Xuàn (徐鉉, 916–991) and Xú Kǎi (徐鍇, 920–974). In 986, Emperor Taizong of Song ordered Xú Xuàn and other editors to publish an authoritative edition of the dictionary. Xu Xuan's textual criticism has been especially vital for all subsequent scholarship, since his restoration of the damage done by Lǐ Yángbīng resulted in the closest version we have to the original, and the basis for all later editions. Xu Kai, in turn, focused on exegetical study, analyzing the meaning of Xu Shen's text, appending supplemental characters, and adding fǎnqiè pronunciation glosses for each entry. Among Qing \"Shuowen\" scholars, some like Zhū Jùnshēng (朱駿聲, 1788–1858), followed the textual criticism model of Xu Xuan, while others like Guì Fù (桂馥, 1736–1805) and Wáng Yún (王筠, 1784–1834) followed the analytical exegesis model of Xu Kai. One Qing scholar, Duan Yucai, stands above all the others due to the quality of his research in both areas. His annotated \"Shuowen\" edition is the one most commonly used by students today.\n\nAlthough the \"Shuowen Jiezi\" has had incalculable value to scholars and was traditionally relied upon as the most important early source on the structure of Chinese characters, many of its analyses and definitions have been eclipsed as vague or inaccurate since the discovery of oracle bone inscriptions in the late 19th century. It therefore can no longer be relied upon as the single, authoritative source for definitions and graphic derivations. Xu Shen lacked access to oracle bone inscriptions from the Shang dynasty and bronzeware inscriptions from the Shang and Western Zhou dynasty, to which scholars now have access; they are often critical for understanding the structures and origins of logographs. For instance, he put \"lǜ\" (慮 \"be concerned; consider\") under the section heading 思 (\"sī\" \"think\") and noted it had a phonetic of \"hǔ\" (虍 \"tiger\"). However, the early bronze graphs for \"lǜ\" (慮) have the \"xīn\" (心 \"heart\") semantic component and a \"lǚ\" (呂 \"a musical pitch\") phonetic, also seen in early forms of \"lǔ\" (盧 \"vessel; hut\") and \"lǔ\" (虜 \"captive\").\n\nScholarship in the 20th century offered new understandings and accessibility. Ding Fubao collected all available \"Shuowen\" materials, clipped and arranged them in the original dictionary order, and photolithographically printed a colossal edition. Notable advances in \"Shuowen\" research have been made by Chinese and Western scholars like Mǎ Zōnghuò (馬宗霍), Mǎ Xùlún (馬敘倫), William G. Boltz, Weldon South Coblin, Thomas B.I. Creamer, Paul Serruys, Roy A. Miller, and K.L. Thern.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "977396", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=977396", "title": "Sobriquet", "text": "Sobriquet\n\nA sobriquet ( ) or soubriquet is a nickname, sometimes assumed, but often given by another. Distinct from a pseudonym, it usually is a familiar name used in place of a real name without the need of explanation, often becoming more familiar than the original name.\n\nExamples are Emiye Menelik, a name of Emperor Menelik II of Ethiopia, who was popularly and affectionately recognized for his kindness ('emiye' means mother in Amharic); Genghis Khan, who now is rarely recognized by his original name, Temüjin; and Mohandas Gandhi, who is better known as Mahatma Gandhi. Well-known places often have sobriquets, such as New York City, often referred to as the Big Apple. Hence, \"sobriquet\" may apply to the nickname for a specific person, group of people, or place.\n\nTwo early variants of the term are found, \"sotbriquet\" and \"soubriquet\"; often, the latter form is still used. The modern French spelling is \"sobriquet\". The first form suggests derivation from \"sot\", foolish, and the second form, \"briquet\", is a French adaptation of Italian \"brichetto\", diminutive of \"bricco\", ass, knave, possibly connected with \"briccone\", rogue, which is supposed to be a derivative of the German \"brechen\", to break; but Skeat considers this spelling to be an example of false etymology. The real origin is to be sought in the form \"soubriquet\".\n\nLittré gives an early fourteenth century \"soubsbriquet\" as meaning a chuck under the chin, and this would be derived from \"soubs\", mod. \"sous\" (Lat. \"sub\"), under, and \"briquet\" or \"bruchel\", the brisket, or lower part of the throat.\n\nSobriquets often are found in music, sports, and politics. Candidates and political figures often are branded with sobriquets, either while living or posthumously. For example, president of the United States Abraham Lincoln came to be known as \"Honest Abe\". \n\n\"A Dictionary of Modern English Usage\" (1926) warned, \"Now the sobriquet habit is not a thing to be acquired, but a thing to be avoided; & the selection that follows is compiled for the purpose not of assisting but of discouraging it.\" Fowler included the sobriquet among what he termed the \"battered ornaments\" of the language, but opinion on their use varies. Sobriquets remain a common feature of speech today.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31054545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31054545", "title": "Stanley Nider Katz", "text": "Stanley Nider Katz\n\nStanley Nider Katz (born April 23, 1934 in Chicago, Illinois) is an American historian specializing in American legal and constitutional history and the history of philanthropy. He is director of the Princeton University Center for Arts and Cultural Policy Studies and director emeritus of the American Council of Learned Societies. He graduated from Harvard University with an AB (1955), MA (1959), and PhD in American colonial history (1961). He taught at Harvard from 1961 to 1965, serving as Allston Burr Senior Tutor of Leverett House from 1963 to 1965. He went on to teach at the University of Wisconsin–Madison (1965–70), the University of Chicago Law School (1970–78), Princeton University (1978–1986), and the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs. In addition to serving as president of the Organization of American Historians (1987-1988), Katz served as president of the American Council of Learned Societies from 1986 to 1997, for which he was awarded a 2010 United States National Humanities Medal. Since 2013, Katz has served as Chair of the New Jersey Council for the Humanities.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19454402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19454402", "title": "Survey of English Usage", "text": "Survey of English Usage\n\nThe Survey of English Usage was the first research centre in Europe to carry out research with corpora. The Survey is based in the Department of English Language and Literature at University College London.\n\nThe Survey of English Usage was founded in 1959 by Randolph (now Lord) Quirk. Many well-known linguists have spent time doing research at the Survey, including Bas Aarts, Valerie Adams, John Algeo, Dwight Bolinger, Noël Burton-Roberts, David Crystal, Derek Davy, Jan Firbas, Sidney Greenbaum, Liliane Haegeman, Robert Ilson, Ruth Kempson, Geoffrey Leech, Jan Rusiecki, Jan Svartvik, and Joe Taglicht. The current Director is Bas Aarts.\n\nThe original Survey Corpus predated modern computing. It was recorded on reel-to-reel tapes, transcribed on paper, filed in filing cabinets, and indexed on paper cards. Transcriptions were annotated with a detailed prosodic and paralinguistic annotation developed by Crystal and Quirk (1964). Sets of paper cards were manually annotated for grammatical structures and filed, so, for example, all noun phrases could be found in the noun phrase filing cabinet in the Survey. Naturally, corpus searches required a visit to the Survey.\n\nThis corpus is now known more widely as the London-Lund Corpus (LLC), as it was the responsibility of co-workers in Lund, Sweden, to computerise the corpus. Thirty-four of the spoken texts were published in book form as Svartvik and Quirk (1980), and the corpus was used as the basis for the famous \"Comprehensive Grammar\" (Quirk \"et al.\" 1985).\n\nIn 1988 Sidney Greenbaum proposed a new project, ICE, the International Corpus of English. ICE was to be an international project, carried out at research centres around the world, to compile corpora of English varieties where English was the first or second official language. ICE texts would contain spoken and written English in a balanced sample of one million words per component so that these samples could be compared in a wide varieties of ways. The ICE project continues around the world to the present day.\n\nICE-GB, the British Component of ICE, was compiled at the Survey. ICE-GB was annotated to a very detailed level, including constructing a full grammatical analysis (parse) for every sentence in the corpus. The first release of ICE-GB took place in 1998. ICE-GB was distributed with software for searching and exploring the parsed corpus called ICECUP. Release 2 of ICE-GB has now been released and is available on CD.\n\nAs well as contrasting varieties of English, many researchers are interested in language development and change over time. A recent project at the Survey undertook the parsing of a large (400,000 word) selection of the spoken part of the LLC in a manner directly comparable with ICE-GB, forming a new, 800,000 word diachronic corpus, called the Diachronic Corpus of Present-Day Spoken English (DCPSE). DCPSE has now been released and is available on CD from the Survey.\n\nThese two corpora comprise the largest collection of parsed and corrected, orthographically transcribed spoken English language data in the world, with over one million words of spoken English in this form.\n\nParsed corpora are large databases containing detailed grammatical tree structures. One of the consequences of forming large collections of valuable linguistic data is a pressing need for methods and tools to help researchers and other users make the most of them. So in parallel with the parsing of natural language data, the Survey team have carried out research and development of software tools to help linguists use these corpora. The ICECUP research platform uses an intuitive grammatical query representation called Fuzzy Tree Fragments (FTFs) to search parsed corpora.\n\nAs well as distributing corpora and tools to the corpus linguistics research community, the SEU carries out research into English language. Recent projects include research on the English Noun Phrase, Subordination in Spoken and Written English, and the English Verb Phrase. The Survey also provides support for PhD students who carry out research into English language corpora.\n\n"}
{"id": "20011421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20011421", "title": "Sycuan Institute on Tribal Gaming", "text": "Sycuan Institute on Tribal Gaming\n\nThe Sycuan Institute on Tribal Gaming at the San Diego State University College of Professional Studies & Fine Arts \"focuses,\" its own words, \"on research, policy studies, and education related to the area of tribal gaming management.\" As the institute's website goes on to put it: \"The Institute, centered in the largest tribal gambling community in the world, is geared to studying tribal gaming within the broader industry of hospitality and tourism management.\"\n\nIn conjunction with educating students, professionals, tribal personnel and interested others for positions in the tribal gaming industry, the Institute conducts research in tribal gaming and collects benchmarking data. It holds an annual summit on tribal gaming that addresses policy, regulatory issues, trends, social issues and related matters, and conducts community lectures and symposia on topics geared to informing and engaging the community about tribal issues and community conflicts.\n\nThe Institute is managed and operated by the interdisciplinary Hospitality and Tourism Management Program at SDSU and supported by an endowment from the tribal council of the Sycuan Band of the Kumeyaay Nation. The endowment was established in 2005 with a $5 million gift from the Sycuan Band of the Kumeyaay Nation, and continual payments of $474,000 on a yearly basis.\n\nUnder the terms of the endowment, the Institute has created an academic curriculum leading to a B.S. in Hospitality and Tourism Management with an emphasis in Tribal Casino Operations Management. The courses include casino operations, casino marketing and public relations, legal and regulatory issues and an introduction to tribal gaming's social, political and cultural context, along with elective courses on responsible gaming.\n\nThe Research Center is the portion \"of the Institute that is focused on producing and disseminating unbiased research on tribal government gaming issues.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "30273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30273", "title": "T. S. Eliot", "text": "T. S. Eliot\n\nThomas Stearns Eliot, (26 September 1888 – 4 January 1965), was an essayist, publisher, playwright, literary and social critic, and \"one of the twentieth century's major poets\". Born in St. Louis, Missouri, in the United States, to a prominent Boston Brahmin family, he moved to England in 1914 at the age of 25, settling, working, and marrying there. He became a British subject in 1927 at the age of 39, renouncing his American passport.\n\nEliot attracted widespread attention for his poem \"The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock\" (1915), which was seen as a masterpiece of the Modernist movement. It was followed by some of the best-known poems in the English language, including \"The Waste Land\" (1922), \"The Hollow Men\" (1925), \"Ash Wednesday\" (1930), and \"Four Quartets\" (1943). He was also known for his seven plays, particularly \"Murder in the Cathedral\" (1935) and \"The Cocktail Party\" (1949). He was awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature in 1948, \"for his outstanding, pioneer contribution to present-day poetry\".\n\nThe Eliots were a Boston Brahmin family with roots in Old and New England. Thomas Eliot's paternal grandfather, William Greenleaf Eliot, had moved to St. Louis, Missouri, to establish a Unitarian Christian church there. His father, Henry Ware Eliot (1843–1919), was a successful businessman, president and treasurer of the Hydraulic-Press Brick Company in St Louis. His mother, Charlotte Champe Stearns (1843–1929), wrote poetry and was a social worker, a new profession in the early 20th century.\n\nEliot was the last of six surviving children; his parents were both 44 years old when he was born. Eliot was born at 2635 Locust Street, a property owned by his grandfather, William Greenleaf Eliot. His four sisters were between 11 and 19 years older; his brother was eight years older. Known to family and friends as Tom, he was the namesake of his maternal grandfather, Thomas Stearns.\n\nEliot's childhood infatuation with literature can be ascribed to several factors. Firstly, he had to overcome physical limitations as a child. Struggling from a congenital double inguinal hernia, he could not participate in many physical activities and thus was prevented from socializing with his peers. As he was often isolated, his love for literature developed. Once he learned to read, the young boy immediately became obsessed with books and was absorbed in tales depicting savages, the Wild West, or Mark Twain's thrill-seeking Tom Sawyer. In his memoir of Eliot, his friend Robert Sencourt comments that the young Eliot \"would often curl up in the window-seat behind an enormous book, setting the drug of dreams against the pain of living.\" Secondly, Eliot credited his hometown with fuelling his literary vision: \"It is self-evident that St. Louis affected me more deeply than any other environment has ever done. I feel that there is something in having passed one's childhood beside the big river, which is incommunicable to those people who have not. I consider myself fortunate to have been born here, rather than in Boston, or New York, or London.\"\n\nFrom 1898 to 1905, Eliot attended Smith Academy, where his studies included Latin, Ancient Greek, French, and German. He began to write poetry when he was fourteen under the influence of Edward Fitzgerald's \"Rubaiyat of Omar Khayyam\", a translation of the poetry of Omar Khayyam. He said the results were gloomy and despairing and he destroyed them. His first published poem, \"A Fable For Feasters\", was written as a school exercise and was published in the \"Smith Academy Record\" in February 1905. Also published there in April 1905 was his oldest surviving poem in manuscript, an untitled lyric, later revised and reprinted as \"Song\" in \"The Harvard Advocate\", Harvard University's student magazine. He also published three short stories in 1905, \"Birds of Prey\", \"A Tale of a Whale\" and \"The Man Who Was King\". The last mentioned story significantly reflects his exploration of Igorot Village while visiting the 1904 World's Fair of St. Louis. Such a link with primitive people importantly antedates his anthropological studies at Harvard.\n\nEliot lived in St. Louis, Missouri for the first sixteen years of his life at the house on Locust St. where he was born. After going away to school in 1905, he only returned to St. Louis for vacations and visits. Despite moving away from the city, Eliot wrote to a friend that the \"Missouri and the Mississippi have made a deeper impression on me than any other part of the world.\"\n\nFollowing graduation, Eliot attended Milton Academy in Massachusetts for a preparatory year, where he met Scofield Thayer who later published \"The Waste Land\". He studied philosophy at Harvard College from 1906 to 1909, earning his bachelor's degree after three years, instead of the usual four. While a student, Eliot was placed on academic probation and graduated with a pass degree (i.e. no honours). He recovered and persisted, attaining a B.A. in an elective program best described as comparative literature in three years, and an M.A. in English literature in the fourth. Frank Kermode writes that the most important moment of Eliot's undergraduate career was in 1908 when he discovered Arthur Symons's \"The Symbolist Movement in Literature\". This introduced him to Jules Laforgue, Arthur Rimbaud, and Paul Verlaine. Without Verlaine, Eliot wrote, he might never have heard of Tristan Corbière and his book \"Les amours jaunes\", a work that affected the course of Eliot's life. The \"Harvard Advocate\" published some of his poems and he became lifelong friends with Conrad Aiken, the American writer and critic.\n\nAfter working as a philosophy assistant at Harvard from 1909 to 1910, Eliot moved to Paris where, from 1910 to 1911, he studied philosophy at the Sorbonne. He attended lectures by Henri Bergson and read poetry with Henri Alban-Fournier. From 1911 to 1914, he was back at Harvard studying Indian philosophy and Sanskrit. Eliot was awarded a scholarship to Merton College, Oxford, in 1914. He first visited Marburg, Germany, where he planned to take a summer programme, but when the First World War broke out he went to Oxford instead. At the time so many American students attended Merton that the Junior Common Room proposed a motion \"that this society abhors the Americanization of Oxford\". It was defeated by two votes, after Eliot reminded the students how much they owed American culture.\n\nEliot wrote to Conrad Aiken on New Year's Eve 1914: \"I hate university towns and university people, who are the same everywhere, with pregnant wives, sprawling children, many books and hideous pictures on the walls ... Oxford is very pretty, but I don't like to be dead.\" Escaping Oxford, Eliot spent much of his time in London. This city had a monumental and life-altering effect on Eliot for several reasons, the most significant of which was his introduction to the influential American literary figure Ezra Pound. A connection through Aiken resulted in an arranged meeting and on 22 September 1914, Eliot paid a visit to Pound's flat. Pound instantly deemed Eliot \"worth watching\" and was crucial to Eliot's beginning career as a poet, as he is credited with promoting Eliot through social events and literary gatherings. Thus, according to biographer John Worthen, during his time in England Eliot \"was seeing as little of Oxford as possible\". He was instead spending long periods of time in London, in the company of Ezra Pound and \"some of the modern artists whom the war has so far spared... It was Pound who helped most, introducing him everywhere.\" In the end, Eliot did not settle at Merton and left after a year. In 1915 he taught English at Birkbeck, University of London.\n\nBy 1916, he had completed a doctoral dissertation for Harvard on \"Knowledge and Experience in the Philosophy of F. H. Bradley\", but he failed to return for the \"viva voce\" exam.\n\nIn a letter to Aiken late in December 1914, Eliot, aged 26, wrote, \"I am very dependent upon women (I mean female society).\" Less than four months later, Thayer introduced Eliot to Vivienne Haigh-Wood, a Cambridge governess. They were married at Hampstead Register Office on 26 June 1915.\n\nAfter a short visit alone to his family in the United States, Eliot returned to London and took several teaching jobs, such as lecturing at Birkbeck College, University of London. The philosopher Bertrand Russell took an interest in Vivienne while the newlyweds stayed in his flat. Some scholars have suggested that she and Russell had an affair, but the allegations were never confirmed.\n\nThe marriage was markedly unhappy, in part because of Vivienne's health issues. In a letter addressed to Ezra Pound, she covers an extensive list of her symptoms, which included a habitually high temperature, fatigue, insomnia, migraines, and colitis. This, coupled with apparent mental instability, meant that she was often sent away by Eliot and her doctors for extended periods of time in the hope of improving her health, and as time went on, he became increasingly detached from her. The couple formally separated in 1933 and in 1938 Vivienne's brother, Maurice, had her committed to a lunatic asylum, against her will, where she remained until her death of heart disease in 1947. Their relationship became the subject of a 1984 play \"Tom & Viv\", which in 1994 was adapted as a film of the same name.\n\nIn a private paper written in his sixties, Eliot confessed: \"I came to persuade myself that I was in love with Vivienne simply because I wanted to burn my boats and commit myself to staying in England. And she persuaded herself (also under the influence of [Ezra] Pound) that she would save the poet by keeping him in England. To her, the marriage brought no happiness. To me, it brought the state of mind out of which came \"The Waste Land\".\"\n\nAfter leaving Merton, Eliot worked as a schoolteacher, most notably at Highgate School, a private school in London, where he taught French and Latin—his students included the young John Betjeman. Later he taught at the Royal Grammar School, High Wycombe, a state school in Buckinghamshire. To earn extra money, he wrote book reviews and lectured at evening extension courses at the University College London, and Oxford. In 1917, he took a position at Lloyds Bank in London, working on foreign accounts. On a trip to Paris in August 1920 with the artist Wyndham Lewis, he met the writer James Joyce. Eliot said he found Joyce arrogant—Joyce doubted Eliot's ability as a poet at the time—but the two soon became friends, with Eliot visiting Joyce whenever he was in Paris. Eliot and Wyndham Lewis also maintained a close friendship, leading to Lewis's later making his well-known portrait painting of Eliot in 1938.\n\nCharles Whibley recommended T.S. Eliot to Geoffrey Faber. In 1925 Eliot left Lloyds to become a director in the publishing firm Faber and Gwyer, later Faber and Faber, where he remained for the rest of his career. At Faber and Faber, he was responsible for publishing important English poets like W. H. Auden, Stephen Spender, and Ted Hughes.\n\nOn 29 June 1927, Eliot converted to Anglicanism from Unitarianism, and in November that year he took British citizenship. He became a warden of his parish church, St Stephen's, Gloucester Road, London, and a life member of the Society of King Charles the Martyr. He specifically identified as Anglo-Catholic, proclaiming himself \"classicist in literature, royalist in politics, and anglo-catholic in religion\". About 30 years later Eliot commented on his religious views that he combined \"a Catholic cast of mind, a Calvinist heritage, and a Puritanical temperament\". He also had wider spiritual interests, commenting that \"I see the path of progress for modern man in his occupation with his own self, with his inner being\" and citing Goethe and Rudolf Steiner as exemplars of such a direction.\n\nOne of Eliot's biographers, Peter Ackroyd, commented that \"the purposes of [Eliot's conversion] were two-fold. One: the Church of England offered Eliot some hope for himself, and I think Eliot needed some resting place. But secondly, it attached Eliot to the English community and English culture.\"\n\nBy 1932, Eliot had been contemplating a separation from his wife for some time. When Harvard offered him the Charles Eliot Norton professorship for the 1932–1933 academic year, he accepted and left Vivienne in England. Upon his return, he arranged for a formal separation from her, avoiding all but one meeting with her between his leaving for America in 1932 and her death in 1947. Vivienne was committed to the Northumberland House mental hospital, Stoke Newington, in 1938, and remained there until she died. Although Eliot was still legally her husband, he never visited her.\n\nFrom 1938 to 1957 Eliot's public companion was Mary Trevelyan of London University, who wanted to marry him and left a detailed memoir.\n\nFrom 1946 to 1957, Eliot shared a flat at 19 Carlyle Mansions, Chelsea, with his friend John Davy Hayward, who collected and managed Eliot's papers, styling himself \"Keeper of the Eliot Archive\". Hayward also collected Eliot's pre-Prufrock verse, commercially published after Eliot's death as \"Poems Written in Early Youth\". When Eliot and Hayward separated their household in 1957, Hayward retained his collection of Eliot's papers, which he bequeathed to King's College, Cambridge, in 1965.\n\nOn 10 January 1957, at the age of 68, Eliot married Esmé Valerie Fletcher, who was 30. In contrast to his first marriage, Eliot knew Fletcher well, as she had been his secretary at Faber and Faber since August 1949. They kept their wedding secret; the ceremony was held in a church at 6:15 am with virtually no one in attendance other than his wife's parents. Eliot had no children with either of his wives. In the early 1960s, by then in failing health, Eliot worked as an editor for the Wesleyan University Press, seeking new poets in Europe for publication. After Eliot's death, Valerie dedicated her time to preserving his legacy, by editing and annotating \"The Letters of T. S. Eliot\" and a facsimile of the draft of \"The Waste Land\". Valerie Eliot died on 9 November 2012 at her home in London.\n\nEliot died of emphysema at his home in Kensington in London, on 4 January 1965, and was cremated at Golders Green Crematorium. In accordance with his wishes, his ashes were taken to St Michael and All Angels' Church, East Coker, the village in Somerset from which his Eliot ancestors had emigrated to America. A wall plaque commemorates him with a quotation from his poem \"East Coker\", \"In my beginning is my end. In my end is my beginning.\"\n\nIn 1967, on the second anniversary of his death, Eliot was commemorated by the placement of a large stone in the floor of Poets' Corner in London's Westminster Abbey. The stone, cut by designer Reynolds Stone, is inscribed with his life dates, his Order of Merit, and a quotation from his poem \"Little Gidding\", \"the communication / of the dead is tongued with fire beyond / the language of the living.\"\n\nThe apartment block where he died, No. 3 Kensington Court Gardens, has had a blue plaque on it since 1986.\n\nFor a poet of his stature, Eliot produced a relatively small number of poems. He was aware of this even early in his career. He wrote to J.H. Woods, one of his former Harvard professors, \"My reputation in London is built upon one small volume of verse, and is kept up by printing two or three more poems in a year. The only thing that matters is that these should be perfect in their kind, so that each should be an event.\"\n\nTypically, Eliot first published his poems individually in periodicals or in small books or pamphlets, and then collected them in books. His first collection was \"Prufrock and Other Observations\" (1917). In 1920, he published more poems in \"Ara Vos Prec\" (London) and \"Poems: 1920\" (New York). These had the same poems (in a different order) except that \"Ode\" in the British edition was replaced with \"Hysteria\" in the American edition. In 1925, he collected \"The Waste Land\" and the poems in \"Prufrock\" and \"Poems\" into one volume and added \"The Hollow Men\" to form \"Poems: 1909–1925\". From then on, he updated this work as \"Collected Poems\". Exceptions are \"Old Possum's Book of Practical Cats\" (1939), a collection of light verse; \"Poems Written in Early Youth\", posthumously published in 1967 and consisting mainly of poems published between 1907 and 1910 in \"The Harvard Advocate\", and \"Inventions of the March Hare: Poems 1909–1917\", material Eliot never intended to have published, which appeared posthumously in 1997.\n\nDuring an interview in 1959, Eliot said of his nationality and its role in his work: \"I'd say that my poetry has obviously more in common with my distinguished contemporaries in America than with anything written in my generation in England. That I'm sure of. ... It wouldn't be what it is, and I imagine it wouldn't be so good; putting it as modestly as I can, it wouldn't be what it is if I'd been born in England, and it wouldn't be what it is if I'd stayed in America. It's a combination of things. But in its sources, in its emotional springs, it comes from America.\"\n\nCleo McNelly Kearns notes in her biography that Eliot was deeply influenced by Indic traditions, notably the Upanishads. From the Sanskrit ending of \"The Waste Land\" to the \"What Krishna meant\" section of \"Four Quartets\" shows how much Indic religions and more specifically Hinduism made up his philosophical basic for his thought process. It must also be acknowledged, as Chinmoy Guha showed in his book \"Where the Dreams Cross: T S Eliot and French Poetry\" (Macmillan, 2011), that he was deeply influenced by French poets from Baudelaire to Paul Valéry. He himself wrote in his 1940 essay on W.B. Yeats: \"The kind of poetry that I needed to teach me the use of my own voice did not exist in English at all; it was only to be found in French.\" (\"Yeats,\" \"On Poetry and Poets\", 1948)\n\nIn 1915, Ezra Pound, overseas editor of \"Poetry\" magazine, recommended to Harriet Monroe, the magazine's founder, that she publish \"The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock\". Although the character Prufrock seems to be middle-aged, Eliot wrote most of the poem when he was only twenty-two. Its now-famous opening lines, comparing the evening sky to \"a patient etherised upon a table\", were considered shocking and offensive, especially at a time when Georgian Poetry was hailed for its derivations of the nineteenth century Romantic Poets.\n\nThe poem follows the conscious experience of a man, Prufrock (relayed in the \"stream of consciousness\" form characteristic of the Modernists), lamenting his physical and intellectual inertia with the recurrent theme of carnal love unattained. Critical opinion is divided as to whether the narrator leaves his residence during the course of the narration. The locations described can be interpreted either as actual physical experiences, mental recollections, or as symbolic images from the unconscious mind, as, for example, in the refrain \"In the room the women come and go\".\n\nThe poem's structure was heavily influenced by Eliot's extensive reading of Dante and refers to a number of literary works, including \"Hamlet\" and those of the French Symbolists. Its reception in London can be gauged from an unsigned review in \"The Times Literary Supplement\" on 21 June 1917. \"The fact that these things occurred to the mind of Mr. Eliot is surely of the very smallest importance to anyone, even to himself. They certainly have no relation to \"poetry\".\"\n\nIn October 1922, Eliot published \"The Waste Land\" in \"The Criterion\". Eliot's dedication to \"il miglior fabbro\" (\"the better craftsman\") refers to Ezra Pound's significant hand in editing and reshaping the poem from a longer Eliot manuscript to the shortened version that appears in publication.\n\nIt was composed during a period of personal difficulty for Eliot—his marriage was failing, and both he and Vivienne were suffering from nervous disorders. The poem is often read as a representation of the disillusionment of the post-war generation. Before the poem's publication as a book in December 1922, Eliot distanced himself from its vision of despair. On 15 November 1922, he wrote to Richard Aldington, saying, \"As for \"The Waste Land\", that is a thing of the past so far as I am concerned and I am now feeling toward a new form and style.\"\n\nThe poem is known for its obscure nature—its slippage between satire and prophecy; its abrupt changes of speaker, location, and time. This structural complexity is one of the reasons why the poem has become a touchstone of modern literature, a poetic counterpart to a novel published in the same year, James Joyce's \"Ulysses\".\n\nAmong its best-known phrases are \"April is the cruellest month\", \"I will show you fear in a handful of dust\" and \"Shantih shantih shantih\". The Sanskrit \"mantra\" ends the poem.\n\n\"The Hollow Men\" appeared in 1925. For the critic Edmund Wilson, it marked \"The nadir of the phase of despair and desolation given such effective expression in \"The Waste Land\".\" It is Eliot's major poem of the late 1920s. Similar to Eliot's other works, its themes are overlapping and fragmentary. Post-war Europe under the Treaty of Versailles (which Eliot despised), the difficulty of hope and religious conversion, Eliot's failed marriage.\n\nAllen Tate perceived a shift in Eliot's method, writing, \"The mythologies disappear altogether in \"The Hollow Men\".\" This is a striking claim for a poem as indebted to Dante as anything else in Eliot's early work, to say little of the modern English mythology—the \"Old Guy Fawkes\" of the Gunpowder Plot—or the colonial and agrarian mythos of Joseph Conrad and James George Frazer, which, at least for reasons of textual history, echo in \"The Waste Land\". The \"continuous parallel between contemporaneity and antiquity\" that is so characteristic of his mythical method remained in fine form. \"The Hollow Men\" contains some of Eliot's most famous lines, notably its conclusion: \"This is the way the world ends\"\"Not with a bang but a whimper.\"\n\n\"Ash-Wednesday\" is the first long poem written by Eliot after his 1927 conversion to Anglicanism. Published in 1930, it deals with the struggle that ensues when one who has lacked faith acquires it. Sometimes referred to as Eliot's \"conversion poem\", it is richly but ambiguously allusive, and deals with the aspiration to move from spiritual barrenness to hope for human salvation. Eliot's style of writing in \"Ash-Wednesday\" showed a marked shift from the poetry he had written prior to his 1927 conversion, and his post-conversion style continued in a similar vein. His style became less ironic, and the poems were no longer populated by multiple characters in dialogue. His subject matter also became more focused on Eliot's spiritual concerns and his Christian faith.\n\nMany critics were particularly enthusiastic about \"Ash-Wednesday\". Edwin Muir maintained that it is one of the most moving poems Eliot wrote, and perhaps the \"most perfect\", though it was not well received by everyone. The poem's groundwork of orthodox Christianity discomfited many of the more secular \"literati\".\n\nIn 1939, Eliot published a book of light verse, \"Old Possum's Book of Practical Cats\" (\"Old Possum\" was Ezra Pound's nickname for him). This first edition had an illustration of the author on the cover. In 1954, the composer Alan Rawsthorne set six of the poems for speaker and orchestra in a work titled \"Practical Cats\". After Eliot's death, the book was adapted as the basis of the musical \"Cats\" by Andrew Lloyd Webber, first produced in London's West End in 1981 and opening on Broadway the following year.\n\nEliot regarded \"Four Quartets\" as his masterpiece, and it is the work that led to his being awarded the Nobel Prize in Literature. It consists of four long poems, each first published separately: \"Burnt Norton\" (1936), \"East Coker\" (1940), \"The Dry Salvages\" (1941) and \"Little Gidding\" (1942). Each has five sections. Although they resist easy characterisation, each poem includes meditations on the nature of time in some important respect—theological, historical, physical—and its relation to the human condition. Each poem is associated with one of the four classical elements, respectively: air, earth, water, and fire.\n\n\"Burnt Norton\" is a meditative poem that begins with the narrator trying to focus on the present moment while walking through a garden, focusing on images and sounds like the bird, the roses, clouds, and an empty pool. The narrator's meditation leads him/her to reach \"the still point\" in which he doesn't try to get anywhere or to experience place and/or time, instead experiencing \"a grace of sense\". In the final section, the narrator contemplates the arts (\"Words\" and \"music\") as they relate to time. The narrator focuses particularly on the poet's art of manipulating \"Words [which] strain, / Crack and sometimes break, under the burden [of time], under the tension, slip, slide, perish, decay with imprecision, [and] will not stay in place, / Will not stay still.\" By comparison, the narrator concludes that \"Love is itself unmoving, / Only the cause and end of movement, / Timeless, and undesiring.\"\n\n\"East Coker\" continues the examination of time and meaning, focusing in a famous passage on the nature of language and poetry. Out of darkness, Eliot offers a solution: \"I said to my soul, be still, and wait without hope.\"\n\n\"The Dry Salvages\" treats the element of water, via images of river and sea. It strives to contain opposites: \"The past and future / Are conquered, and reconciled.\"\n\n\"Little Gidding\" (the element of fire) is the most anthologised of the Quartets. Eliot's experiences as an air raid warden in the Blitz power the poem, and he imagines meeting Dante during the German bombing. The beginning of the Quartets (\"Houses / Are removed, destroyed\") had become a violent everyday experience; this creates an animation, where for the first time he talks of Love as the driving force behind all experience. From this background, the Quartets end with an affirmation of Julian of Norwich: \"All shall be well and / All manner of thing shall be well.\"\n\nThe \"Four Quartets\" cannot be understood without reference to Christian thought, traditions, and history. Eliot draws upon the theology, art, symbolism and language of such figures as Dante, and mystics St. John of the Cross and Julian of Norwich. The \"deeper communion\" sought in \"East Coker\", the \"hints and whispers of children, the sickness that must grow worse in order to find healing\", and the exploration which inevitably leads us home all point to the pilgrim's path along the road of sanctification.\n\nWith the important exception of \"Four Quartets\", Eliot directed much of his creative energies after \"Ash Wednesday\" to writing plays in verse, mostly comedies or plays with redemptive endings. He was long a critic and admirer of Elizabethan and Jacobean verse drama; witness his allusions to Webster, Thomas Middleton, William Shakespeare and Thomas Kyd in \"The Waste Land\". In a 1933 lecture he said \"Every poet would like, I fancy, to be able to think that he had some direct social utility . . . . He would like to be something of a popular entertainer, and be able to think his own thoughts behind a tragic or a comic mask. He would like to convey the pleasures of poetry, not only to a larger audience, but to larger groups of people collectively; and the theatre is the best place in which to do it.\"\n\nAfter \"The Waste Land\" (1922), he wrote that he was \"now feeling toward a new form and style\". One project he had in mind was writing a play in verse, using some of the rhythms of early jazz. The play featured \"Sweeney\", a character who had appeared in a number of his poems. Although Eliot did not finish the play, he did publish two scenes from the piece. These scenes, titled \"Fragment of a Prologue\" (1926) and \"Fragment of an Agon\" (1927), were published together in 1932 as \"Sweeney Agonistes\". Although Eliot noted that this was not intended to be a one-act play, it is sometimes performed as one.\n\nA pageant play by Eliot called \"The Rock\" was performed in 1934 for the benefit of churches in the Diocese of London. Much of it was a collaborative effort; Eliot accepted credit only for the authorship of one scene and the choruses. George Bell, the Bishop of Chichester, had been instrumental in connecting Eliot with producer E. Martin Browne for the production of \"The Rock\", and later commissioned Eliot to write another play for the Canterbury Festival in 1935. This one, \"Murder in the Cathedral\", concerning the death of the martyr, Thomas Becket, was more under Eliot's control. Eliot biographer Peter Ackroyd comments that \"for [Eliot], \"Murder in the Cathedral\" and succeeding verse plays offered a double advantage; it allowed him to practice poetry but it also offered a convenient home for his religious sensibility.\" After this, he worked on more \"commercial\" plays for more general audiences: \"The Family Reunion\" (1939), \"The Cocktail Party\" (1949), \"The Confidential Clerk\", (1953) and \"The Elder Statesman\" (1958) (the latter three were produced by Henry Sherek and directed by E. Martin Browne). The Broadway production in New York of \"The Cocktail Party\" received the 1950 Tony Award for Best Play. Eliot wrote \"The Cocktail Party\" while he was a visiting scholar at the Institute for Advanced Study.\n\nRegarding his method of playwriting, Eliot explained, \"If I set out to write a play, I start by an act of choice. I settle upon a particular emotional situation, out of which characters and a plot will emerge. And then lines of poetry may come into being: not from the original impulse but from a secondary stimulation of the unconscious mind.\"\n\nEliot also made significant contributions to the field of literary criticism, strongly influencing the school of New Criticism. He was somewhat self-deprecating and minimising of his work and once said his criticism was merely a \"by-product\" of his \"private poetry-workshop\" But the critic William Empson once said, \"I do not know for certain how much of my own mind [Eliot] invented, let alone how much of it is a reaction against him or indeed a consequence of misreading him. He is a very penetrating influence, perhaps not unlike the east wind.\"\n\nIn his critical essay \"Tradition and the Individual Talent\", Eliot argues that art must be understood not in a vacuum, but in the context of previous pieces of art. \"In a peculiar sense [an artist or poet] ... must inevitably be judged by the standards of the past.\" This essay was an important influence over the New Criticism by introducing the idea that the value of a work of art must be viewed in the context of the artist's previous works, a \"simultaneous order\" of works (i.e., \"tradition\"). Eliot himself employed this concept on many of his works, especially on his long-poem \"The Waste Land\".\n\nAlso important to New Criticism was the idea—as articulated in Eliot's essay \"Hamlet and His Problems\"—of an \"objective correlative\", which posits a connection among the words of the text and events, states of mind, and experiences. This notion concedes that a poem means what it says, but suggests that there can be a non-subjective judgment based on different readers' different—but perhaps corollary—interpretations of a work.\n\nMore generally, New Critics took a cue from Eliot in regard to his \"'classical' ideals and his religious thought; his attention to the poetry and drama of the early seventeenth century; his deprecation of the Romantics, especially Shelley; his proposition that good poems constitute 'not a turning loose of emotion but an escape from emotion'; and his insistence that 'poets... at present must be difficult'.\"\n\nEliot's essays were a major factor in the revival of interest in the metaphysical poets. Eliot particularly praised the metaphysical poets' ability to show experience as both psychological and sensual, while at the same time infusing this portrayal with—in Eliot's view—wit and uniqueness. Eliot's essay \"The Metaphysical Poets\", along with giving new significance and attention to metaphysical poetry, introduced his now well-known definition of \"unified sensibility\", which is considered by some to mean the same thing as the term \"metaphysical\".\n\nHis 1922 poem \"The Waste Land\" also can be better understood in light of his work as a critic. He had argued that a poet must write \"programmatic criticism\", that is, a poet should write to advance his own interests rather than to advance \"historical scholarship\". Viewed from Eliot's critical lens, \"The Waste Land\" likely shows his personal despair about World War I rather than an objective historical understanding of it.\n\nLate in his career, Eliot focused much of his creative energy on writing for the theatre; some of his earlier critical writing, in essays such as \"Poetry and Drama,\" \"Hamlet and his Problems,\" and \"The Possibility of a Poetic Drama,\" focused on the aesthetics of writing drama in verse.\n\nThe writer Ronald Bush notes that Eliot's early poems like \"The Love Song of J. Alfred Prufrock\", \"Portrait of a Lady\", \"La Figlia Che Piange\", \"Preludes\", and \"Rhapsody on a Windy Night\" had \"[an] effect [that] was both unique and compelling, and their assurance staggered [Eliot's] contemporaries who were privileged to read them in manuscript. [Conrad] Aiken, for example, marveled at 'how sharp and complete and sui generis the whole thing was, from the outset. The wholeness is there, from the very beginning.'\"\n\nThe initial critical response to Eliot's \"The Waste Land\" was mixed. Bush notes that the piece was at first correctly perceived as a work of jazz-like syncopation—and, like 1920s jazz, essentially iconoclastic.\" Some critics, like Edmund Wilson, Conrad Aiken, and Gilbert Seldes thought it was the best poetry being written in the English language while others thought it was esoteric and wilfully difficult. Edmund Wilson, being one of the critics who praised Eliot, called him \"one of our only authentic poets\". Wilson also pointed out some of Eliot's weaknesses as a poet. In regard to \"The Waste Land\", Wilson admits its flaws (\"its lack of structural unity\"), but concluded, \"I doubt whether there is a single other poem of equal length by a contemporary American which displays so high and so varied a mastery of English verse.\"\n\nCharles Powell was negative in his criticism of Eliot, calling his poems incomprehensible. And the writers of \"Time\" magazine were similarly baffled by a challenging poem like \"The Waste Land\". John Crowe Ransom wrote negative criticisms of Eliot's work but also had positive things to say. For instance, though Ransom negatively criticised \"The Waste Land\" for its \"extreme disconnection\", Ransom was not completely condemnatory of Eliot's work and admitted that Eliot was a talented poet.\n\nAddressing some of the common criticisms directed against \"The Waste Land\" at the time, Gilbert Seldes stated, \"It seems at first sight remarkably disconnected and confused... [however] a closer view of the poem does more than illuminate the difficulties; it reveals the hidden form of the work, [and] indicates how each thing falls into place.\"\n\nEliot's reputation as a poet, as well as his influence in the academy, peaked following the publication of \"The Four Quartets\". In an essay on Eliot published in 1989, the writer Cynthia Ozick refers to this peak of influence (from the 1940s through the early 1960s) as \"the Age of Eliot\" when Eliot \"seemed pure zenith, a colossus, nothing less than a permanent luminary, fixed in the firmament like the sun and the moon\". But during this post-war period, others, like Ronald Bush, observed that this time also marked the beginning of the decline in Eliot's literary influence: As Eliot's conservative religious and political convictions began to seem less congenial in the postwar world, other readers reacted with suspicion to his assertions of authority, obvious in \"Four Quartets\" and implicit in the earlier poetry. The result, fueled by intermittent rediscovery of Eliot's occasional anti-Semitic rhetoric, has been a progressive downward revision of his once towering reputation. Bush also notes that Eliot's reputation \"slipped\" significantly further after his death. He writes, \"Sometimes regarded as too academic (William Carlos Williams's view), Eliot was also frequently criticized for a deadening neoclassicism (as he himself—perhaps just as unfairly—had criticized Milton). However, the multifarious tributes from practicing poets of many schools published during his centenary in 1988 was a strong indication of the intimidating continued presence of his poetic voice.\"\n\nAlthough Eliot's poetry is not as influential as it once was, notable literary scholars, like Harold Bloom and Stephen Greenblatt, still acknowledge that Eliot's poetry is central to the literary English canon. For instance, the editors of \"The Norton Anthology of English Literature\" write, \"There is no disagreement on [Eliot's] importance as one of the great renovators of the English poetry dialect, whose influence on a whole generation of poets, critics, and intellectuals generally was enormous. [However] his range as a poet [was] limited, and his interest in the great middle ground of human experience (as distinct from the extremes of saint and sinner) [was] deficient.\" Despite this criticism, these scholars also acknowledge \"[Eliot's] poetic cunning, his fine craftsmanship, his original accent, his historical and representative importance as \"the\" poet of the modern symbolist-Metaphysical tradition\".\n\nThe depiction of Jews in some of Eliot's poems has led several critics to accuse him of anti-Semitism. This case has been presented most forcefully in a study by Anthony Julius: \"T. S. Eliot, Anti-Semitism, and Literary Form\" (1996). In \"Gerontion\", Eliot writes, in the voice of the poem's elderly narrator, \"And the jew squats on the window sill, the owner [of my building] / Spawned in some estaminet of Antwerp.\" Another well-known example appears in the poem, \"Burbank with a Baedeker: Bleistein with a Cigar\". In this poem, Eliot wrote, \"The rats are underneath the piles. / The jew is underneath the lot. / Money in furs.\" Interpreting the line as an indirect comparison of Jews to rats, Julius writes, \"The anti-Semitism is unmistakable. It reaches out like a clear signal to the reader.\" Julius's viewpoint has been supported by literary critics such as Harold Bloom, Christopher Ricks, George Steiner, Tom Paulin and James Fenton.\n\nIn a series of lectures delivered at the University of Virginia in 1933, published under the title \"After Strange Gods: A Primer of Modern Heresy\" (1934), Eliot wrote of societal tradition and coherence, \"What is still more important [than cultural homogeneity] is unity of religious background, and reasons of race and religion combine to make any large number of free-thinking Jews undesirable.\" Eliot never re-published this book/lecture. In his 1934 pageant play \"The Rock\", Eliot distances himself from Fascist movements of the Thirties by caricaturing Oswald Mosley's Blackshirts, who 'firmly refuse/ To descend to palaver with anthropoid Jews'. The 'new evangels' of totalitarianism are presented as antithetic to the spirit of Christianity.\n\nCraig Raine, in his books \"In Defence of T. S. Eliot\" (2001) and \"T. S. Eliot\" (2006), sought to defend Eliot from the charge of anti-Semitism. Reviewing the 2006 book, Paul Dean stated that he was not convinced by Raine's argument. Nevertheless, he concluded, \"Ultimately, as both Raine and, to do him justice, Julius insist, however much Eliot may have been compromised as a person, as we all are in our several ways, his greatness as a poet remains.\" In another review of Raine's 2006 book, the literary critic Terry Eagleton also questioned the validity of Raine's defence of Eliot's character flaws as well as the entire basis for Raine's book, writing, \"Why do critics feel a need to defend the authors they write on, like doting parents deaf to all criticism of their obnoxious children? Eliot's well-earned reputation [as a poet] is established beyond all doubt, and making him out to be as unflawed as the Archangel Gabriel does him no favours.\"\n\nEliot's influence extends beyond the English language. His work, in particular \"The Waste Land\", \"The Hollow Men\", and \"Ash Wednesday\" strongly influenced the poetry of two of the most significant post-War Irish language poets, Seán Ó Ríordáin and Máirtín Ó Díreáin, as well as \"The Weekend of Dermot and Grace\" (1964) by Eoghan O Tuairisc. Eliot additionally influenced, among many others, Virginia Woolf, Ezra Pound, Hart Crane, William Gaddis, Allen Tate, Ted Hughes, Geoffrey Hill, Seamus Heaney, Kamau Brathwaite, Russell Kirk, George Seferis (who in 1936 published a modern Greek translation of \"The Waste Land,\") and James Joyce.\n\nBelow are a partial list of honours and awards received by T.S. Eliot or bestowed or created in his honour.\n\nThese honours are displayed in order of precedence based on Eliot's nationality and rules of protocol, not awarding date.\n\n\n\n\nSource: \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4919653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4919653", "title": "Truth-bearer", "text": "Truth-bearer\n\nA truth-bearer is an entity that is said to be either true or false and nothing else. The thesis that some things are true while others are false has led to different theories about the nature of these entities. Since there is divergence of opinion on the matter, the term \"truth-bearer\" is used to be neutral among the various theories. Truth-bearer candidates include propositions, sentences, sentence-tokens, statements, concepts, beliefs, thoughts, intuitions, utterances, and judgements but different authors exclude one or more of these, deny their existence, argue that they are true only in a derivative sense, assert or assume that the terms are synonymous,\nor seek to avoid addressing their distinction or do not clarify it.\n\nSome distinctions and terminology as used in this article, based on Wolfram 1989\n(Chapter 2 Section1) follow. \n\"It should be understood that the terminology described is not always used in the ways set out, and it is introduced solely for the purposes of discussion in this article.\" Use is made of the type–token and use–mention distinctions. Reflection on occurrences of numerals might be helpful.\nIn grammar a sentence can be a declaration, an explanation, a question, a command. In logic a declarative sentence is considered to be a sentence that can be used to communicate truth. Some sentences which are grammatically declarative are not logically so.\n\nA character is a typographic character (printed or written) etc.\n\nA word-token is a pattern of characters.\nA word-type\nis an identical pattern of characters.\nA meaningful-word-token\nis a meaningful word-token.\nTwo word-tokens which mean the same are of the same word-meaning\n\nA sentence-token is a pattern of word-tokens.\nA meaningful-sentence-token\nis a meaningful sentence-token or a meaningful pattern of meaningful-word-tokens.\nTwo sentence-tokens are of the same sentence-type if they are identical patterns of word-tokens characters\nA declarative-sentence-token is a sentence-token which that can be used to communicate truth or convey information.\nA meaningful-declarative-sentence-token is a meaningful declarative-sentence-token\nTwo meaningful-declarative-sentence-tokens are of the same meaningful-declarative-sentence-type\nif they are identical patterns of word-tokens.\nA nonsense-declarative-sentence-token\nis a declarative-sentence-token which is not a meaningful-declarative-sentence-token.\nA meaningful-declarative-sentence-token-use\noccurs when and only when a meaningful-declarative-sentence-token is used declaratively.\n\nA referring-expression\nis expression that can be used to pick out or refer to particular entity.\nA referential success\nis a referring-expression’s success in identifying a particular entity.\nA referential failure\nis a referring-expression’s failure to identify a particular entity.\nA referentially-successful-meaningful-declarative-sentence-token-use\nis a meaningful-declarative-sentence-token-use containing no referring-expression that fails to identify a particular entity.\n\nAs Aristotle pointed out, since some sentences are questions, commands, or meaningless, not all can be truth-bearers.\nIf in the proposal \"What makes the sentence \"Snow is white\" true is the fact that snow is white\" it is assumed that sentences like \"Snow is white\" are truth-bearers, then it would be more clearly stated as \"What makes the meaningful-declarative-sentence \"Snow is white\" true is the fact that snow is white\".\n\nTheory 1a: \n\nAll and only meaningful-declarative-sentence-types)\nare truth-bearers \nCriticisms of Theory 1a\n\nSome meaningful-declarative-sentence-types will be both truth and false, contrary to our definition of truth-bearer, e.g. (i) the liar-paradox sentences such as \"This sentence is false\". (see Fisher 2008) (ii) Time, place and person dependent sentences e.g. \"It is noon\". \"This is London\", \"I'm Spartacus\".\n\n\"Anyone may ..ascribe truth and falsity to the deterministic propositional signs we here call utterances. But if he takes this line, he must, like Leibniz, recognise that truth cannot be an affair solely of actual utterances, since it makes sense to talk of the discovery of previously un-formulated truths.\" (Kneale, W&M (1962))\n\nRevision to Theory 1a, by making a distinction between type and token.\n\nTo escape the time, place and person dependent criticism the theory can be revised, making use or the type–token distinction, as follows\n\nTheory 1b: \n\nAll and only meaningful-declarative-sentence-tokens are truth-bearers \n\nQuine argued that the primary truth-bearers are utterances \nHaving now recognised in a general way that what are true are sentences, we must turn to certain refinements. What are best seen as primarily true or false are not sentences but events of utterances. If a man utters the words 'It is raining' in the rain, or the words 'I am hungry' while hungry, his verbal performance counts as true. Obviously one utterance of a sentence may be true and another utterance of the same sentence be false.\n\nQUINE 1970 page 13\n\nCriticisms of Theory 1b\n\n(i) Theory 1b prevents sentences which are meaningful-declarative-sentence-types from being truth-bearers. If all meaningful-declarative-sentence-types typographically identical to \"The whole is greater than the part\" are true then it surely follows that the meaningful-declarative-sentence-type \"The whole is greater than the part\" is true (just as all meaningful-declarative-sentence-tokens typographically identical to \"The whole is greater than the part\" are English entails the meaningful-declarative-sentence-types \"The whole is greater than the part\" is English) (ii) Some meaningful-declarative-sentences-tokens will be both truth and false, or neither, contrary to our definition of truth-bearer. E.g. A token, t, of the meaningful-declarative-sentence-type ‘P: I'm Spartacus’, written on a placard. The token t would be true when used by Spartacus, false when used by Bertrand Russell, neither true nor false when mentioned by Spartacus or when being neither used nor mentioned.\n\nTheory 1b.1\n\nAll meaningful-declarative-sentence-token-uses are truth-bearers; some meaningful-declarative-sentence-types are truth-bearers\n\nTo allow that at least some meaningful-declarative-sentence-types can be truth-bearers Quine allowed so-called eternal sentences to be truth-bearers.\n\nIn Peirces's terminology, utterances and inscriptions are \"tokens\" of the sentence or other linguistic expression concerned; and this linguistic expression is the \"type\" of those utterances and inscriptions. In Frege's terminology, truth and falsity are the two \"truth values\". Succinctly then, an eternal sentence is a sentence whose tokens have the same truth values... What are best regarded as true and false are not propositions but sentence tokens, or sentences if they are eternal \nQuine 1970 pages 13–14\n\nTheory 1c\n\nAll and only meaningful-declarative-sentence-token-uses are truth-bearers \n\nArguments for Theory 1c\n\nBy respecting the use–mention Theory 1c avoids criticism (ii) of Theory 1b.\n\nCriticisms of Theory 1c\n\n(i) Theory 1c does not avoid criticism (i) of Theory 1b. (ii) meaningful-declarative-sentence-token-uses are events (located in particular positions in time and space) and entail a user. This implies that (a) nothing (no truth-bearer) exists and hence nothing (no truth-bearer) is true (of false) anytime anywhere (b) nothing (no truth-bearer) exists and hence nothing (no truth-bearer) is true (of false) in the absence of a user. This implies that (a) nothing was true before the evolution of users capable of using meaningful-declarative-sentence-tokens and (b) nothing is true (or false) accept when being used (asserted) by a user. Intuitively the truth (or falsity) of ‘The tree continues to be in the quad’ continues in the absence of an agent to asset it.\n\nReferential Failure\nA problem of some antiquity is the status of sentences such as \nU: The King of France is bald\nV: The highest prime has no factors\nW: Pegasus did not exist \nSuch sentences purport to refer to entitles which do not exist (or do not always exist). They are said to suffer from referential failure. We are obliged to choose either (a) That they are not truth-bearers and consequently neither true nor false or (b) That they are truth-bearers and per se are either true of false.\n\nTheory 1d\n\nAll and only referentially-successful-meaningful-declarative-sentence-token-uses are truth-bearers. \n\nTheory 1d takes option (a) above by declaring that meaningful-declarative-sentence-token-uses that fail referentially are not truth-bearers.\n\nTheory 1e\n\nAll referentially-successful-meaningful-declarative-sentence-token-uses are truth-bearers; some meaningful-declarative-sentence-types are truth-bearers\n\nArguments for Theory 1e\n\nTheory 1e has the same advantages as Theory 1d. Theory 1e allows for the existence of truth-bearers (i.e., meaningful-declarative-sentence-types) in the absence of users and between uses. If for any x, where x is a use of a referentially successful token of a meaningful-declarative-sentence-type y x is a truth-bearer then y is a truth-bearer otherwise y is not a truth bearer. E.g. If all uses of all referentially successful tokens of the meaningful-declarative-sentence-type ‘The whole is greater than the part’ are truth-bearers (i.e. true or false) then the meaningful-declarative-sentence-type ‘The whole is greater than the part’ is a truth-bearer. If some but not all uses of some referentially successful tokens of the meaningful-declarative-sentence-type ‘I am Spartacus’ are true then the meaningful-declarative-sentence-type ‘I am Spartacus’ is not a truth-bearer.\n\nCriticisms of Theory 1e\n\nTheory 1e makes implicit use of the concept of an agent or user capable of using (i.e. asserting) a referentially-successful-meaningful-declarative-sentence-token. Although Theory 1e does not depend on the actual existence (now, in the past or in the future) of such users, it does depend on the possibility and cogency of their existence. Consequently, the concept of truth-bearer under Theory 1e is dependent upon giving an account of the concept of a ‘user’. In so far as referentially-successful-meaningful-declarative-sentence-tokens are particulars (locatable in time and space) the definition of truth-bearer just in terms of referentially-successful-meaningful-declarative-sentence is attractive to those who are (or would like to be) nominalists. The introduction of ‘use’ and ‘users’ threatens the introduction of intentions, attitudes, minds &c. as less-than=welcome ontological baggage\n\nIn classical logic a sentence in a language is true or false under (and only under) an interpretation and is therefore a truth-bearer. For example, a language in the first-order predicate calculus might include one of more predicate symbols and one or more individual constants and one or more variables. The interpretation of such a language would define a domain (universe of discourse); assign an element of the domain to each individual constant; assign the donation in the domain of some property to each unary (one-place) predicate symbol.\n\nFor example, if a language L consisted in the individual constant \"a\", two unary predicate letters \"F\" and \"G\" and the variable \"x\", then an interpretation I of L might define the Domain D as animals, assign Socrates to \"a\", the denotation of the property being a man to \"F\" and the denotation of the property being mortal to \"G\". Under the interpretation I of L then \"Fa\" would be true if, and only if Socrates is a man, and the sentence \"(Fx Gx)\" would be true if, and only if all men (in the domain) are mortal. In some texts an interpretation is said to give \"meaning\" to the symbols of the language. Since \"Fa\" has the value true under some (but not all interpretations) it is not the sentence-type \"Fa\" which is said to be true but only some sentence-tokens of \"Fa\" under particular interpretations. A token of \"Fa\" without an interpretation is neither true nor false. Some sentences of a Language like L are said to be true under all interpretations of the sentence, e.g. \"(Fx Fx),\" such sentences being termed logical truths, but again such sentences are neither true nor false in the absence of an interpretation.\n\nMany authors use the term proposition as truth-bearers. There is no single definition or usage. Sometimes it is used to mean a \"meaningful declarative sentence\" itself; sometimes it is used to mean the meaning of a meaningful declarative sentence. This provides two possible definitions for the purposes of discussion as below\n\nTheory 2a: \nAll and only meaningful-declarative-sentences are propositions\n\nTheory 2b:\nA meaningful-declarative-sentence-token expresses a proposition; two meaningful-declarative-sentence-tokens which have the same meaning express the same proposition; two meaningful-declarative-sentence-tokens with different meanings express different propositions.\n\n\"Proposition\" is not always used in one or other of these ways.\n\nCriticisms of Theory 2a. \n\nCriticisms of Theory 2b\n\nsee also Willard Van Orman Quine, Proposition, \"The Russell-Myhill Antinomy\", also known as the \"Principles of Mathematics Appendix B Paradox\"\n\nsee also Internet Encycypedia of Philosophy \"Propositions are abstract entities; they do not exist in space and time. They are sometimes said to be “timeless”, “eternal”, or “omnitemporal” entities. Terminology aside, the essential point is that propositions are not concrete (or material) objects. Nor, for that matter, are they mental entities; they are not “thoughts” as Frege had suggested in the nineteenth century. The theory that propositions are the bearers of truth-values also has been criticized. Nominalists object to the abstract character of propositions. Another complaint is that it’s not sufficiently clear when we have a case of the same propositions as opposed to similar propositions. This is much like the complaint that we can’t determine when two sentences have exactly the same meaning. The relationship between sentences and propositions is a serious philosophical problem.\"\n\nMany authors consider \"statements\" as truth-bearers, though as with the term \"proposition\" there is divergence in definition and usage of that term. Sometimes 'statements' are taken to be meaningful-declarative-sentences; sometimes they are thought to be what is asserted by a meaningful-declarative-sentence. It is not always clear in which sense the word is used. This provides two possible definitions for the purposes of discussion as below.\n\nA particular concept of a statement was introduced by Strawson in the 1950s.,\n\nConsider the following:\n\nOn the assumption that the same person wrote Waverley and Ivanhoe, the two distinct patterns of characters (meaningful-declarative-sentences) I and J make the same statement but express different propositions. \nThe pairs of meaningful-declarative-sentences (K, L) & (M, N) have different meanings, but they are not necessarily contradictory, since K & L may have been asserted by different people, and M & N may have been asserted about different conductors.\n\n\"What these examples show is that we cannot identify that which is true or false (the statement) with the sentence used in making it; for the same sentence may be used to make different statements, some of them true and some of them false.\" (Strawson, P.F. (1952))\n\nThis suggests:\n\n\nTheory 3a\n\nAll and only statements are meaningful-declarative-sentences. \n\nTheory 3b\n\nAll and only meaningful-declarative-sentences can be used to make statements \n\n\"Statement\" is not always used in one or other of these ways.\n\nArguments for Theory 3a\n\nCriticisms of Theory 3a\n\n\nArguments for Theory 3b\n\nFrege (1919) argued that an indicative sentence in which we communicate or state something, contains both a thought and an assertion, it expresses the thought, and the thought is the sense of the sentence.\n\n"}
{"id": "57988413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57988413", "title": "Vanessa Siddle Walker", "text": "Vanessa Siddle Walker\n\nVanessa Siddle Walker is the Samuel Candler Dobbs Professor of African American Educational Studies at Emory University and the president-elect of the American Educational Research Association (AERA). Walker has studied the segregation of the American educational system for twenty five years and published the non-fiction work: \"The Lost Education Of Horace Tate: Uncovering The Hidden Heroes Who Fought For Justice In Schools\". She has received the Grawmeyer Award for Education, the AERA Early Career Award, the Conference of Southern Graduate Schools, the American Education Studies Association, and three awards from AERA Divisions, including Best New Female Scholar, Best New Book, and Outstanding Book.\n\nWalker received her B.A. from the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, her M.Ed from Harvard University, and her Ed. D Harvard University.\n\nWalker’s book publications include Their Highest Potential: An African American School Community in the Segregated South (University of North Carolina Press), Facing Racism in Education (Harvard Educational Review Reprint Series), Racing Moral Formation (Teachers College Press), and Hello Professor: A Black Principal and Professional Leadership in the Segregated South (University of North Carolina Press), and Living the Legacy: Universities and Schools in Collaborative for African American Children (Rowan and Little), The Lost Education of Horace Tate: Uncovering the hidden heroes who fought for justice in schools (The New Press).\n"}
{"id": "30798479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30798479", "title": "Vittoria Piisimi", "text": "Vittoria Piisimi\n\nVittoria Piisimi (fl. 1595), was an Italian actress, singer, dancer, theatre director and musician. She was one of the most famous Italian actors of the period and known as the \"divine Vittoria Piisimi\". She and Isabella Andreini were the two most famed actresses of the era and described as great rivals.\n\nPiisimi was the primadonna of the famous commedia dell’arte Gelosi Company of Flaminio Scala. The company, first mentioned in 1568, was the first Commedia to tour outside Italy when it performed in Paris in 1571, and was described as the foremost commedia dell’arte troupe. Piisimi is first mentioned in 1573 and is confirmed as a member of the Gelosi troupe in 1574. she would in fact have been active earlier, as it was known that her lover, actor Adriano Valerini from Verona, left her for Vincenza Armani, who died in 1569, four years before 1573.\n\nPiisimi received great praise and replaced Armani as the primadonna of the Italian theatre. Piisimi combined her acting with singing, dancing and by writing music and was reportedly admired also in these fields. She was called \"comica gelosa\" and mainly played the parts of heroine and subretto. On 24 July 1574, she performed for Henry III of France in the role of Pallas Athena in Venice, where she received great praise. At this point, she was the most famous actress in Italy and was known outside of Italy. Her performance was especially requested by the French monarch upon his visit to Venice in 1574. In 1579-1581, she was the leader of her own theatre company.\n\nIn 1589, the Gelosi troupe performed in Florence at the wedding of Grand Duke Ferdinand de Medici and Christina of Lorraine. At this event, the \"rival prima donnas\" Vittoria Piisimi performed as the gypsy in \"Zingara\" and Isabella Andreini as the madwoman in \"La Pazzia d’Isabella\". Their performances were considered the great highlight of the event and became a famous event of their rivalry.\n\nIn 1592, Piisimi left the Gelosi theatre. She was for a time the director of the Gli Uniti company. She returned to the Gelosi company in 1595.\n\nThe death date of Piisimi is unknown. She is last mentioned in 1595.\n\n"}
{"id": "29752859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29752859", "title": "William Woodville Rockhill", "text": "William Woodville Rockhill\n\nWilliam Woodville Rockhill (May 1, 1854 – December 8, 1914) was a United States diplomat, best known as the author of the U.S.'s Open Door Policy for China and as the first American to learn to speak Tibetan.\n\nRockhill was born in Philadelphia, the son of Thomas Cadwalader Rockhill and Dorothea Anne Woodville (1823–1913). His father died when he was 13 years old and his mother relocated the family to France to escape the Civil War. While in his teens, Rockhill read Abbé Huc's account of his 1844-46 voyage to Lhasa, which sparked young Rockhill's interest in Tibet. Rockhill sought out the celebrated Orientalist Léon Feer of the \"Bibliothèque Nationale\", who guided Rockhill's learning about the Far East. Rockhill attended the \"École spéciale militaire de Saint-Cyr\", where he studied Tibetan. After graduation, Rockhill joined the French Foreign Legion, serving as an officer in Algiers.\n\nIn 1876, Rockhill returned to the United States, and on December 14, 1876, he married his childhood sweetheart, Caroline Tyson, daughter of J. Washington Tyson and Marie Louise (Hewling) Tyson of Philadelphia. The couple purchased a cattle ranch in New Mexico, but Rockhill concluded that ranching was not to his liking. By 1880, he had completed a French language translation of the Tibetan version of the \"Udanavarga\", which was published in 1881.\n\nThe Rockhills sold the ranch in 1881 and moved to Montreux, Switzerland, where William's mother lived. He spent the next three years in Europe studying Tibetan, Sanskrit, and Chinese. During this period, he co-authored a biography of the Buddha with Nanjo Bunyu and Ernst Leumann, and completed a French language translation of the Prātimokṣa sūtra, published in 1884 under the title \"Prâtimoksha sutra; ou, Le traité d'émancipation selon la version tibétaine: avec notes et extraits du Dulva (Vinaya)\". \n\nIn 1883, Rockhill's wife came into a $70,000 inheritance on the death of a cousin, allowing Rockhill to take an unpaid position with the American Legation in Peking. After perfecting his language skills, he was upgraded to a paid position. In the 1880s, he made two extended expeditions into western China, Mongolia and Tibet. He sent an account of his travels to the Smithsonian Institution for publication (as \"The Land of the Lamas\" (1891)), and in 1893, he was awarded the Gold Patron's Medal of the Royal Geographical Society. Artifacts from Rockhill's expeditions are in the collections of the Department of Anthropology, National Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian Institution, and archival materials are in their associated archives, the National Anthropological Archives.\n\nRockhill wrote a glossary of Salar in his 1894 book \"Diary of a Journey through Mongolia and Tibet in 1891 and 1892\".\n\nDuring the administration of President of the United States Grover Cleveland, Rockhill served as Third Assistant Secretary of State from April 17, 1894, until February 13, 1896. He then served as United States Assistant Secretary of State under United States Secretary of State Richard Olney from February 14, 1896, until May 10, 1897.\n\nIn 1897, President William McKinley named Rockhill U.S. Minister to Greece, a position he held from September 25, 1897, to April 27, 1899. He concurrently served as Minister to Serbia from May 7, 1898, to April 27, 1899, and as Minister to Romania from May 18, 1898, to April 27, 1899.\n\nWith the outbreak of the Boxer Rebellion, U.S. Secretary of State John Hay, who knew little of the Far East, turned to Rockhill for guidance. As such, Rockhill drafted a memorandum that spelled out the famous Open Door Policy towards China; this memorandum was circulated to Russia, Britain, Germany, France, Japan, and Italy and in March 1900, Secretary Hay announced that all the Great Powers had signed off on the Open Door Policy. Rockhill was then despatched as President McKinley's special envoy, where he represented the U.S. in the Conference of Ministers that followed the ending of the Boxer Rebellion. During the negotiations surrounding the Boxer Protocol, Rockhill argued against full war reparations, instead encouraging the Great Powers to settle for a lump sum of $333 million in reparations to be divided amongst the Powers in proportion to their expenses incurred in intervening in China. At Rockhill's urging, the American share of war reparations was used to fund student exchanges between China and the U.S.(a program known as the Boxer Indemnity Scholarship Program).\n\nIn 1905, President Theodore Roosevelt appointed Rockhill U.S. Minister to China, a position he held from June 17, 1905, until June 1, 1909. This appointment came in the wake of the British Expedition to Tibet (1903–1904) that had forced Thubten Gyatso, 13th Dalai Lama into isolation. Learning that Rockhill spoke Tibetan, the Dalai Lama entered into a correspondence that was to last until Rockhill's death. In June 1908, Rockhill made a five-day on-foot trek to Mount Wutai to meet the Dalai Lama and successfully convinced the Dalai Lama to seek peace with China and Britain.\n\nIn 1909, President William Howard Taft named Rockhill Minister to Russia and Rockhill held this post from January 11, 1910, until June 17, 1911. President Taft then named him Minister to Turkey, and he held this post from August 28, 1911, until November 20, 1913.\n\nAppointed Advisor to the President of China, Yuan Shi Kai, in 1914, Rockhill sailed San Francisco for China via Japan aboard the SS \"Chiyo Maru\". Afflicted by a severe cold he contracted in San Francisco, he developed pleurisy on the voyage, and had to leave the ship on arrival at Honolulu for treatment. Four days later, the pleurisy overcome, the ordeal occasioned him heart failure and he died in hospital on 8 December 1914, aged 60. Rockhill is buried in the East Cemetery in Litchfield, Connecticut.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33621390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33621390", "title": "Work–family balance in the United States", "text": "Work–family balance in the United States\n\nWork–family balance in the United States refers to the specific issues that arise when men and women in the United States attempt to balance their occupational lives with their family lives. This differs from work-life balance: while work-life balance may refer to the health and living issues that arise from work, work–family balance refers specifically to how work and families intersect and influence each other. Work–family balance in the U.S. differs significantly for families of different social class.\n\nMiddle-class family issues center on dual-earner spouses and parents while lower class issues center on problems that arise due to single parenting. Work–family balance issues also differ by class, since middle class occupations provide more benefits and family support while low-wage jobs are less flexible with benefits. Solutions for helping individuals manage work–family balance in the U.S. include legislation, workplace policies, and the marketization of care work.\n\nFamily structure (how the family is organized) historically has been influenced by social-level forces, many of them economic. According to family historian Stephanie Coontz, marriage and family formation in the 17th century was heavily influenced by desires to form economic and political alliances. Children were seen as a method of ensuring the passage of political and economic power to future generations.\n\nInfluenced by the Englightenment, several changes to marriage occurred: the move toward individualism and the loosening of church influence over families after the Protestant Reformation resulted in the flourishing of the two-parent farm family. Prior to the Industrial Revolution, the two-parent farm family was the dominant family model, in which both parents working side by side on family farms The two-parent farm family ceased to be the dominant family model after the Industrial Revolution occurred. The 1920s was the first time that the majority of children lived in two-parent breadwinner-homemaker families (one where the father supported the family financially and the mother supported the family domestically).\n\nIn 19th century farm settings, children were an important part of their families' agricultural livelihoods. As industrialization occurred and families shifted from rural agricultural settings to urban ones, the number of children per household also declined. Children became less of an economic benefit and more of a cost: urban life necessitated educating children which was costly.\n\nDuring the 1910s and 1920s, women delayed childbirth for economic opportunities that were present in urban areas. However, this trend reversed during the Great Depression because of the lower number of economic opportunities available for women. As a result, Depression Era women were more likely to marry and have children earlier. In 1900, roughly 40 percent of single women were employed versus only five percent of married women (Preston, 2003). This 35 percent gap persisted for many years. Goldin (1992), in a study of women college graduates in the twentieth century, concluded that those graduating between 1900 and 1920 had to make \"a distinct choice between family and career\" \n\nThe Works Progress Administration opened about 3,000 part-day Emergency Nusery Schools for about 75,000 children from 1933 to 1935, which provided child care to help eligible adults looking for work and which employed teachers in an industry where two-thirds of private nursery schools had closed during the Depression. Men were drafted into the military in large numbers during World War II, and women with young children were needed to supplement single women and those with older children at wartime factories. Problems with women leaving children in unsafe situations while working began to appear. ENS capacity peaked at 130,00 children in 1944. Wartime New Deal measures such as the Lanham Act and Servicemen's Dependents Allowance Act of 1942 provided federal funding for day care centers starting in 1942.\n\nThe breadwinner–homemaker model regained dominance during the twenty-year period immediately after World War II. The economy relied upon the male breadwinner to earn the income to support his family financially, while women were relied upon to do the care work and other forms of domestic work to support her husband's earnings.\n\nAs the economy went into recession during the 1970s, women entered the workforce in large droves. Families could no longer survive on the single income of the male breadwinner and both sexes were relied upon for financial support. The dominant family model starting in the 1970s was the dual-earner family where both parents worked. Women also entered college in higher percentages. However, the economy was still assumed to run on an outdated breadwinner-homemaker model as evidence by the following things: women made significantly less income than men, they were still expected to do the majority of domestic work, and the nine-to-three o'clock school schedule of children still existed. The recession of the 1970s also further pushed the correlation between income and family structure. As more and more previously lucrative manufacturing jobs were sent overseas, men without college educations could no longer support their families on a single wage. Women's labor force participation rates have steadily increased since the 1940s Since the 1970s, the relationship between marriage and college education has also been positive.\n\nCongress passed the Comprehensive Child Development Act in 1971, which subsidized child care to make it universal, but the bill was vetoed by President Richard Nixon.\n\nHistorically significant pieces of legislation have been enacted at the federal level to address the sex disparities in the workplace. These pieces of legislation attempt to address the wage gap in the U.S., gender discrimination in hiring and firing, and the occupational rights of workers in taking family and medical leave. Despite these significant legislative efforts, the U.S. still lags behind other developed countries in progressive family-friendly work policies.\n\nThe Equal Pay Act of 1963 attempted to abolish wage and payment discrimination between men and women.\n\nTitle VII mandates against gender discrimination in the workplace. It makes gender discrimination on the basis of pregnancy and childbirth illegal. The Pregnancy Discrimination Act of 1978 is an amendment to Title VII that explicitly prohibits discrimination against pregnant women.\n\nThe Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 requires employers to provide job-protected unpaid leave for certain family and medical reasons. Legitimate reasons include pregnancy, childbirth, adoption, foster care placement, and care for an ill family member. However, this legislation is limited: coverage is only extended for twelve weeks and for employees who have worked for at least twelve months at the same job. Short-term medical illness and routine medical checkups were not covered until the FMLA, and family members other than parents, spouses, and children are not covered. Some states have extended the definition of family on their own, and therefore extended the coverage of FMLA.\n\nThe structural economic changes have influenced specific aspects of the family. However, not all families are affected in the same way. In the U.S., whether or not a family is dual or single-earner is related to their social class and income. The economic changes in the past couple of decades have affected middle-class and lower-class families very differently in many aspects, especially since the 1970s economic recession. These family inequalities significantly affect the intersection of Race (United States Census) and Social class in the United States as well.\n\nMiddle-class families have certain class-specific problems that arise when family and work intersects. Many of them have to do with the balance parents must create between their career aspirations and their familial desires. Because the middle class has greater access to more stable occupations and the chances for occupational mobility, many middle class American families must deal with the ultimate decision between balancing their families with their jobs. Although the figures vary depending on parents' household income, the U.S. Department of Agriculture estimates families spend anywhere from $134,370 to $269,520 raising a child from birth through age 17.\n\nMiddle class women oftentimes delay motherhood until after the peak of their fertility at age 29–30, a delay that has become more common in the last two decades. Motherhood is delayed because of the higher educational and career aspirations middle class women oftentimes make—the career incentives are too great to pass up. While middle class women on average have children at age 29, lower class women typically have children much earlier in their lives because of the lack of incentives to delay childbirth. According to Edin and Kefalas, lower class women do not make the same delay because they are oftentimes lacking the career and educational incentives that middle class women have.\n\nThe delay in fertility becomes a problem among middle class women when they delay childbirth past their fertility peak. Since fertility peaks at a certain age, pushing childbirth past that age significantly decreases the probability that certain women will be able to have children. The media has been an influence on women's fertility choices: popular celebrities who have managed to have children well into their forties and other medical miracles covered in the media oftentimes give women false hope that they themselves will also be able to bear children later in life. For every success story, however, there are many more disappointments.\n\nAlthough American women have made significant strides in the workplace, they are still culturally and socially required to be mothers first and foremost. The cultural ideas of motherhood in the U.S. have given birth to a new ideal: a working mother who not only has a wonderful career but also manages to flawlessly balance her family and domestic duties as well. This ideal is known as the \"supermom.\" The media is a culprit in this depiction: A study examining the portrayal of mothers in magazines showed that the most popular magazines in the U.S. still continue to promote the traditional role of motherhood while undermining homemakers by portraying them as superficial and negative. Instead, only the Supermom type is portrayed and rarely critiqued.\n\nAs a result of this Supermom ideal, cultural contradictions of motherhood widely exist. Working mothers are often critiqued for being selfish and not spending enough time with their children. They defend their position by saying they work to support their children economically. Homemakers are often critiqued for not pursuing meaningful careers. They respond by saying that the childcare and other domestic work they do for their families is much more important. Only the unrealistic depiction of the supermom can balance these two ideological extremes, but that ideal is an unrealistic solution for most women.\n\nDespite the career gains women have made, their husbands have not reached parity in terms of their domestic work and care work. Women in the developed world, including the U.S., still do hours more of housework than their male counterparts, despite their success in the workplace. Working mothers on average do more work and sleep less than their husbands. The perception of who does more housework is also skewed by whether or not the husband or the wife is reporting.\nUnsurprisingly then, working mothers do not spend a significantly lower amount of time with their children compared to women who do not work—working mothers simply sleep less on average.\n\nAs a result, many middle-class families have resorted to alternative methods of child care. A common option is to buy child care, such as day care providers and centers.\n\nLower class families have been heavily influenced by income as well. Lower-class families have a different set of work–family balancing issues, many of which are much more difficult to solve than those of middle-class families.\n\nLower-class families are disproportionately made up of single mother households. According to Kathryn Edin, this is because of the lack of incentive to marry other lower class men among lower class women, and the desire to save marriage for more quality prospects. Unlike middle class women, lower class women do not have the same financial and marriage incentives to marry especially in the face of likely divorce. As a result, lower class mothers have less incentive to delay their childbearing to later years. Many of the problems shared by single parents are disproportionately felt by the lower class for these very reasons.\n\nThe inability to use the income and time of two spouses has a harmful effect upon the work opportunities of lower-income mothers. Another factor is income: single-mothers tend to work lower income wage, which come with few benefits such as maternity leave, health insurance, childcare, and flexible schedules. Low-wage work oftentimes is characterized by weekly schedule changes, little flexibility, and extreme short notice for changes. As a result, lower class mothers have a greater a time crunch and more conflict in balancing their work needs with those of their children. Single mother home environments are much poorer because of nonstandard hours and schedules.\n\nSingle-mother and lower-class families have a much more difficult time negotiating childcare or finding sustainable childcare options. The breadwinner-homemaker family and economic model does not apply to single-parent families because the single-parent must be both roles at all times. Because child care services cost a substantial amount, low-income mothers spend a higher percentage of their income on child care than middle class mothers do. Few low-income mothers are happy with their childcare arrangements especially in light of the fact that low-income childcare arrangements suffer from frequent disruptions. In the United States, state assistance for childcare is nowhere near the level of other developed countries and has actually decreased.\n\nThe United States has lagged behind the social benefits that support working families when compared to other developed countries. Of the twenty-one richest countries in the world, only the United States does not mandate paid parental leave, and among the industrialized Western nations only the United States does not mandate paid vacations. Many solutions to the family-work balance problem have been observed in other countries and proposed in the U.S. Solutions specific to the U.S. have also developed recently. Recent U.S. policy has focused on \"restoring marriage\" rather than providing direct support to children.\n\nThe care crisis in the United States refers to the lack of care work as the result of globalization. For the middle class, there has been an ongoing debate over who should take care of children: family members or child care providers However, the debate is slowly shifting to one concerning parents and child care providers to domestic workers. Globalization and the entrance of women into the workforce has prompted the mass immigration of transnational care chains - poor women who leave their home countries and go to developed countries to work specifically as domestic workers. This has become an option for many middle and upper-class families.\n\nPoor families, however, still do not have the same care work markets that middle-class families do. Relying on formal child care providers is less disruptive and risky, but providers still pose a significant price problem.\n\nThere are many workplace policies that can alleviate the burden of work–family balance for many middle-class families. Some options in family-friendly workplaces include providing paid leave or options for reduced hours. Workplaces are realizing that employees with well balanced family and work lives are actually valuable to firms: workplace childcare assistance can increase productivity and morale among employees, as well as lessen turnover, accidents, and absenteeism. Childcare options for working parents can be key in workplace satisfaction. Workplace supports such as personal time off, paid leave, on-site or nearby childcare, financial assistance for childcare, and other family-friendly policies are Western European workplace norms that could solve the work–family balance problem in the United States.\n\nThere are many other options of work–family policies that lead to happier and more productive workers. Some of these options include educational classes, such as classes on the wellbeing of a newborn or family, put on by the company, that has been shown to be associated with less reported work–family conflict. A room that would allow for breast milk pumping could be one of the most helpful work–family policies for a company and family. A 1995 study found 86% of breastfed infants experienced no illness during the 1-year duration of the study and another study found breastfeeding infants decreases the chances of acute infections. Breastfeeding will help the company because breastfeeding has been linked to lower health care costs. This prolonged breast feeding saved one company $240,000 in health care savings and $60,000 in reduced absenteeism. Some other work–family policies that could help the family and company include various scheduling options, such as paid vacation, flex schedules, working from home, part-time work, and job sharing. Employees who have this flexibility increase productivity and have less work–family spill over and they are less likely to miss work due to family related issues.\n\nOne extremely important aspect of all these policies is the management support and work environment that go along with it. It has been shown multiple times that the work culture influence whether employees take advantage of work–family policies. This work culture is a better predictor of use of policies than individual's needs or values. If an individual feels that using a policy will affect his/her chances of advancement he/she is more likely to refuse to use the policy. This is why management support is a big part of this work–family policy.\n\nHowever, many constrains still exist. These workplace policies are largely only offered at higher salary jobs, which are once again out of reach for the poor. The huge lack of government funding at the state and federal levels also make these workplace policies unrealistic at this point.\n\nIf government support for workplace family-friendly policies or childcare subsidies was stronger, more solutions could be attempted. For example, child care subsidies by the government actually result in less childcare and work disruptions and could impact low-income families as well by making childcare more affordable. However, government support is not at the level of other developed countries. Legislation such as the Family and Medical Leave Act had little impact on gender inequality in care work and was strongly opposed by businesses.\n\nIf our society were to follow in the footsteps of other countries who allow paid time off for taking care of sick children or even for having children our country might be able to get rid of the welfare program. Mothers wouldn't need welfare because they could have a job and be able to take care of children. Employers would have to allow parents to leave work to take care of children and they would have to pay them for it as well. When the parent is still getting a paycheck there would be no need for welfare programs to supplement another income or for a lack of income.\n\n\nGeneral:\n\n"}
