{"id": "29833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29833", "title": "Americas", "text": "Americas\n\nThe Americas (also collectively called America; , Spanish/Portuguese: \"América\") comprise the totality of the continents of North and South America. Together, they make up most of the land in Earth's western hemisphere and comprise the New World.\n\nAlong with their associated islands, they cover 8% of Earth's total surface area and 28.4% of its land area. The topography is dominated by the American Cordillera, a long chain of mountains that runs the length of the west coast. The flatter eastern side of the Americas is dominated by large river basins, such as the Amazon, St. Lawrence River / Great Lakes basin, Mississippi, and La Plata. Since the Americas extend from north to south, the climate and ecology vary widely, from the arctic tundra of Northern Canada, Greenland, and Alaska, to the tropical rain forests in Central America and South America.\n\nHumans first settled the Americas from Asia between 42,000 and 17,000 years ago. A second migration of Na-Dene speakers followed later from Asia. The subsequent migration of the Inuit into the neoarctic around 3500 BCE completed what is generally regarded as the settlement by the indigenous peoples of the Americas.\n\nThe first known European settlement in the Americas was by the Norse explorer Leif Ericson. However, the colonization never became permanent and was later abandoned. The voyages of Christopher Columbus from 1492 to 1502 resulted in permanent contact with European (and subsequently, other Old World) powers, which led to the Columbian exchange. Diseases introduced from Europe and West Africa devastated the indigenous peoples, and the European powers colonized the Americas. Mass emigration from Europe, including large numbers of indentured servants (and importation of African slaves), largely replaced the indigenous peoples.\n\nDecolonization of the Americas began with the American Revolution in the 1770s and largely ended with the Spanish-American War in the late 1890s. Currently, almost all of the population of the Americas resides in independent countries; however, the legacy of the colonization and settlement by Europeans is that the Americas share many common cultural traits, most notably Christianity and the use of Indo-European languages: primarily Spanish, English, Portuguese, French, and to a lesser extent Dutch.\n\nThe Americas are home to over a billion inhabitants, two-thirds of which reside in the United States, Brazil, or Mexico. It is home to eight megacities (metropolitan areas with ten million inhabitants or more): New York City (23.9 million), Mexico City (21.2 million), São Paulo (21.2 million), Los Angeles (18.8 million), Buenos Aires (13.8 million), Rio de Janeiro (13.0 million), Bogotá (10.4 million), and Lima (10.1 million).\n\nThe name America was first recorded in 1507. Christie's auction house says a two-dimensional globe created by Martin Waldseemüller was the earliest recorded use of the term. The name was also used (together with the related term \"Amerigen\") in the \"Cosmographiae Introductio\", apparently written by Matthias Ringmann, in reference to South America. It was applied to both North and South America by Gerardus Mercator in 1538. America derives from \"Americus\", the Latin version of Italian explorer Amerigo Vespucci's first name. The feminine form \"America\" accorded with the feminine names of Asia, Africa, and Europa.\n\nIn modern English, North and South America are generally considered separate continents, and taken together are called \"America\" or \"the Americas\" in the plural. When conceived as a unitary continent, the form is generally \"the continent of America\" in the singular. However, without a clarifying context, singular \"America\" in English commonly refers to the United States of America.\n\nHistorically, in the English-speaking world, the term America used to refer to a single continent until the 1950s (as in Van Loon's Geography of 1937): According to historians Kären Wigen and Martin W. Lewis,\n\nThis shift did not seem to happen in Romance-speaking countries (including France, Italy, Portugal, Spain, Romania, and the Romance-speaking countries of Latin America and Africa), where America is still considered a continent encompassing the North America and South America subcontinents, as well as Central America.\n\nThe first inhabitants migrated into the Americas from Asia. Habitation sites are known in Alaska and the Yukon from at least 20,000 years ago, with suggested ages of up to 40,000 years.\nBeyond that, the specifics of the Paleo-Indian migration to and throughout the Americas, including the dates and routes traveled, are subject to ongoing research and discussion. Widespread habitation of the Americas occurred during the late glacial maximum, from 16,000 to 13,000 years ago.\nThe traditional theory has been that these early migrants moved into the Beringia land bridge between eastern Siberia and present-day Alaska around 40,000–17,000 years ago, when sea levels were significantly lowered during the Quaternary glaciation. These people are believed to have followed herds of now-extinct pleistocene megafauna along \"ice-free corridors\" that stretched between the Laurentide and Cordilleran ice sheets. Another route proposed is that, either on foot or using primitive boats, they migrated down the Pacific coast to South America. Evidence of the latter would since have been covered by a sea level rise of hundreds of meters following the last ice age. Both routes may have been taken, although the genetic evidences suggests a single founding population. The micro-satellite diversity and distributions specific to South American Indigenous people indicates that certain populations have been isolated since the initial colonization of the region.\n\nA second migration occurred after the initial peopling of the Americas; Na Dene speakers found predominantly in North American groups at varying genetic rates with the highest frequency found among the Athabaskans at 42% derive from this second wave. Linguists and biologists have reached a similar conclusion based on analysis of Amerindian language groups and ABO blood group system distributions. Then the people of the Arctic small tool tradition a broad cultural entity that developed along the Alaska Peninsula, around Bristol Bay, and on the eastern shores of the Bering Strait around 2,500 BCE (4,500 years ago) moved into North America. The Arctic small tool tradition, a Paleo-Eskimo culture branched off into two cultural variants, including the Pre-Dorset, and the Independence traditions of Greenland. The descendants of the Pre-Dorset cultural group, the Dorset culture was displaced by the final migrants from the Bering sea coast line the ancestors of modern Inuit, the Thule people by 1000 Common Era (CE). Around the same time as the Inuit migrated into Greenland, Viking settlers began arriving in Greenland in 982 and Vinland shortly thereafter, establishing a settlement at L'Anse aux Meadows, near the northernmost tip of Newfoundland. The Viking settlers quickly abandoned Vinland, and disappeared from Greenland by 1500.\n\nThe pre-Columbian era incorporates all period subdivisions in the history and prehistory of the Americas before the appearance of significant European influences on the American continents, spanning the time of the original settlement in the Upper Paleolithic to European colonization during the Early Modern period. The term \"Pre-Columbian\" is used especially often in the context of the great indigenous civilizations of the Americas, such as those of Mesoamerica (the Olmec, the Toltec, the Teotihuacano, the Zapotec, the Mixtec, the Aztec, and the Maya) and the Andes (Inca, Moche, Muisca, Cañaris).\n\nMany pre-Columbian civilizations established characteristics and hallmarks which included permanent or urban settlements, agriculture, civic and monumental architecture, and complex societal hierarchies. Some of these civilizations had long faded by the time of the first permanent European arrivals (c. late 15th–early 16th centuries), and are known only through archeological investigations. Others were contemporary with this period, and are also known from historical accounts of the time. A few, such as the Maya, had their own written records. However, most Europeans of the time viewed such texts as pagan, and much was destroyed in Christian pyres. Only a few hidden documents remain today, leaving modern historians with glimpses of ancient culture and knowledge.\n\nAlthough there had been previous trans-oceanic contact, large-scale European colonization of the Americas began with the first voyage of Christopher Columbus in 1492. The first Spanish settlement in the Americas was La Isabela in northern Hispaniola. This town was abandoned shortly after in favor of Santo Domingo de Guzmán, founded in 1496, the oldest American city of European foundation. This was the base from which the Spanish monarchy administered its new colonies and their expansion. On the continent, Panama City on the Pacific coast of Central America, founded on August 5, 1519, played an important role, being the base for the Spanish conquest of South America. The spread of new diseases brought by Europeans and Africans killed many of the inhabitants of North America and South America, with a general population crash of Native Americans occurring in the mid-16th century, often well ahead of European contact. European immigrants were often part of state-sponsored attempts to found colonies in the Americas. Migration continued as people moved to the Americas fleeing religious persecution or seeking economic opportunities. Millions of individuals were forcibly transported to the Americas as slaves, prisoners or indentured servants.\n\nDecolonization of the Americas began with the American Revolution and the Haitian Revolution in the late 1700s. This was followed by numerous Latin American wars of independence in the early 1800s. Between 1811 and 1825, Paraguay, Argentina, Chile, Gran Colombia, the United Provinces of Central America, Mexico, Brazil, Peru, and Bolivia gained independence from Spain and Portugal in armed revolutions. After the Dominican Republic won independence from Haiti, it was re-annexed by Spain in 1861, but reclaimed its independence in 1865 at the conclusion of the Dominican Restoration War. The last violent episode of decolonization was the Cuban War of Independence which became the Spanish–American War, which resulted in the independence of Cuba in 1898, and the transfer of sovereignty over Puerto Rico from Spain to the United States.\n\nPeaceful decolonization began with the purchase by the United States of Louisiana from France in 1803, Florida from Spain in 1819, of Alaska from Russia in 1867, and the Danish West Indies from Denmark in 1916. Canada became independent of the United Kingdom, starting with the Balfour Declaration of 1926, Statute of Westminster 1931, and ending with the patriation of the Canadian Constitution in 1982. The Dominion of Newfoundland similarly achieved partial independence under the Balfour Declaration and Statute of Westminster, but was re-absorbed into the United Kingdom in 1934. It was subsequently confederated with Canada in 1949.\n\nThe remaining European colonies in the Caribbean began to achieve peaceful independence well after World War II. Jamaica and Trinidad and Tobago became independent in 1962, and Guyana and Barbados both achieved independence in 1966. In the 1970s, the Bahamas, Grenada, Dominica, St. Lucia, and St. Vincent and the Grenadines all became independent of the United Kingdom, and Suriname became independent of the Netherlands. Belize, Antigua and Barbuda, and Saint Kitts and Nevis achieved independence from the United Kingdom in the 1980s.\n\nThe Americas make up most of the land in Earth's western hemisphere. The northernmost point of the Americas is Kaffeklubben Island, which is the most northerly point of land on Earth. The southernmost point is the islands of Southern Thule, although they are sometimes considered part of Antarctica. The mainland of the Americas is the world's longest north-to-south landmass. The distance between its two polar extremities, the Boothia Peninsula in northern Canada and Cape Froward in Chilean Patagonia, is roughly . The mainland's most westerly point is the end of the Seward Peninsula in Alaska; Attu Island, further off the Alaskan coast to the west, is considered the westernmost point of the Americas. Ponta do Seixas in northeastern Brazil forms the easternmost extremity of the mainland, while Nordostrundingen, in Greenland, is the most easterly point of the continental shelf.\n\nSouth America broke off from the west of the supercontinent Gondwana around 135 million years ago, forming its own continent. Around 15 million years ago, the collision of the Caribbean Plate and the Pacific Plate resulted in the emergence of a series of volcanoes along the border that created a number of islands. The gaps in the archipelago of Central America filled in with material eroded off North America and South America, plus new land created by continued volcanism. By three million years ago, the continents of North America and South America were linked by the Isthmus of Panama, thereby forming the single landmass of the Americas. The Great American Interchange resulted in many species being spread across the Americas, such as the cougar, porcupine, opossums, armadillos and hummingbirds.\n\nThe geography of the western Americas is dominated by the American cordillera, with the Andes running along the west coast of South America and the Rocky Mountains and other North American Cordillera ranges running along the western side of North America. The Appalachian Mountains run along the east coast of North America from Alabama to Newfoundland. North of the Appalachians, the Arctic Cordillera runs along the eastern coast of Canada.\n\nThe largest mountain ranges are the Andes and Rocky Mountains. The Sierra Nevada and the Cascade Range reach similar altitudes as the Rocky Mountains, but are significantly smaller. In North America, the greatest number of fourteeners are in the United States, and more specifically in the U.S. state of Colorado. The highest peaks of the Americas are located in the Andes, with Aconcagua of Argentina being the highest; in North America Denali (Mount McKinley) in the U.S. state of Alaska is the tallest.\n\nBetween its coastal mountain ranges, North America has vast flat areas. The Interior Plains spread over much of the continent, with low relief. The Canadian Shield covers almost 5 million km² of North America and is generally quite flat. Similarly, the north-east of South America is covered by the flat Amazon Basin. The Brazilian Highlands on the east coast are fairly smooth but show some variations in landform, while farther south the Gran Chaco and Pampas are broad lowlands.\n\nThe climate of the Americas varies significantly from region to region. Tropical rainforest climate occurs in the latitudes of the Amazon, American cloud forests, Florida and Darien Gap. In the Rocky Mountains and Andes, dry and continental climates are observed. Often the higher altitudes of these mountains are snow-capped.\n\nSoutheastern North America is well known for its occurrence of tornadoes and hurricanes, of which the vast majority of tornadoes occur in the United States' Tornado Alley. Often parts of the Caribbean are exposed to the violent effects of hurricanes. These weather systems are formed by the collision of dry, cool air from Canada and wet, warm air from the Atlantic.\n\nWith coastal mountains and interior plains, the Americas have several large river basins that drain the continents. The largest river basin in North America is that of the Mississippi, covering the second largest watershed on the planet. The Mississippi-Missouri river system drains most of 31 states of the U.S., most of the Great Plains, and large areas between the Rocky and Appalachian mountains. This river is the fourth longest in the world and tenth most powerful in the world.\n\nIn North America, to the east of the Appalachian Mountains, there are no major rivers but rather a series of rivers and streams that flow east with their terminus in the Atlantic Ocean, such as the Hudson River, Saint John River, and Savannah River. A similar instance arises with central Canadian rivers that drain into Hudson Bay; the largest being the Churchill River. On the west coast of North America, the main rivers are the Colorado River, Columbia River, Yukon River, Fraser River, and Sacramento River.\n\nThe Colorado River drains much of the Southern Rockies and parts of the Great Basin and Range Province. The river flows approximately into the Gulf of California, during which over time it has carved out natural phenomena such as the Grand Canyon and created phenomena such as the Salton Sea. The Columbia is a large river, long, in central western North America and is the most powerful river on the West Coast of the Americas. In the far northwest of North America, the Yukon drains much of the Alaskan peninsula and flows from parts of Yukon and the Northwest Territory to the Pacific. Draining to the Arctic Ocean of Canada, the Mackenzie River drains waters from the Arctic Great Lakes of Arctic Canada, as opposed to the Saint-Lawrence River that drains the Great Lakes of Southern Canada into the Atlantic Ocean. The Mackenzie River is the largest in Canada and drains .\n\nThe largest river basin in South America is that of the Amazon, which has the highest volume flow of any river on Earth. The second largest watershed of South America is that of the Paraná River, which covers about 2.5 million km².\n\nNorth America and South America began to develop a shared population of flora and fauna around 2.5 million years ago, when continental drift brought the two continents into contact via the Isthmus of Panama. Initially, the exchange of biota was roughly equal, with North American genera migrating into South America in about the same proportions as South American genera migrated into North America. This exchange is known as the Great American Interchange. The exchange became lopsided after roughly a million years, with the total spread of South American genera into North America far more limited in scope than the spread on North American genera into South America.\n\nThere are 35 sovereign states in the Americas, as well as an autonomous country of Denmark, three overseas departments of France, three overseas collectivities of France, and one uninhabited territory of France, eight overseas territories of the United Kingdom, three constituent countries of the Netherlands, three public bodies of the Netherlands, two unincorporated territories of the United States, and one uninhabited territory of the United States.\n\nIn 2015 the total population of the Americas was about 985 million people, divided as follows:\n\nThere are three urban centers that each hold titles for being the largest population area based on the three main demographic concepts:\n\nIn accordance with these definitions, the three largest population centers in the Americas are: Mexico City, anchor to the largest metropolitan area in the Americas; New York City, anchor to the largest urban area in the Americas; and São Paulo, the largest city proper in the Americas. All three cities maintain Alpha classification and large scale influence.\n\nThe population of the Americas is made up of the descendants of four large ethnic groups and their combinations.\n\nThe majority of the population live in Latin America, named for its predominant cultures, rooted in Latin Europe (including the two dominant languages, Spanish and Portuguese, both Romance languages), more specifically in the Iberian nations of Portugal and Spain (hence the use of the term Ibero-America as a synonym). Latin America is typically contrasted with Anglo-America, where English, a Germanic language, is prevalent, and which comprises Canada (with the exception of francophone Canada rooted in Latin Europe [France]—see Québec and Acadia) and the United States. Both countries are located in North America, with cultures deriving predominantly from Anglo-Saxon and other Germanic roots.\n\nThe most prevalent faiths in the Americas are as follows:\n\nOther faiths include Buddhism; Hinduism; Sikhism; Bahá'í Faith; a wide variety of indigenous religions, many of which can be categorized as animistic; new age religions and many African and African-derived religions. Syncretic faiths can also be found throughout the Americas.\n\nVarious languages are spoken in the Americas. Some are of European origin, others are spoken by indigenous peoples or are the mixture of various idioms like the different creoles.\n\nThe most widely spoken language in the Americas is Spanish. The dominant language of Latin America is Spanish, though the most populous nation in Latin America, Brazil, speaks Portuguese. Small enclaves of French-, Dutch- and English-speaking regions also exist in Latin America, notably in French Guiana, Suriname, and Belize and Guyana respectively. Haitian Creole is dominant in the nation of Haiti, where French is also spoken. Native languages are more prominent in Latin America than in Anglo-America, with Nahuatl, Quechua, Aymara and Guaraní as the most common. Various other native languages are spoken with less frequency across both Anglo-America and Latin America. Creole languages other than Haitian Creole are also spoken in parts of Latin America.\n\nThe dominant language of Anglo-America is English. French is also official in Canada, where it is the predominant language in Quebec and an official language in New Brunswick along with English. It is also an important language in Louisiana, and in parts of New Hampshire, Maine, and Vermont. Spanish has kept an ongoing presence in the Southwestern United States, which formed part of the Viceroyalty of New Spain, especially in California and New Mexico, where a distinct variety of Spanish spoken since the 17th century has survived. It has more recently become widely spoken in other parts of the United States because of heavy immigration from Latin America. High levels of immigration in general have brought great linguistic diversity to Anglo-America, with over 300 languages known to be spoken in the United States alone, but most languages are spoken only in small enclaves and by relatively small immigrant groups.\n\nThe nations of Guyana, Suriname, and Belize are generally considered not to fall into either Anglo-America or Latin America because of their language differences from Latin America, geographic differences from Anglo-America, and cultural and historical differences from both regions; English is the primary language of Guyana and Belize, and Dutch is the primary language of Suriname.\n\nMost of the non-native languages have, to different degrees, evolved differently from the mother country, but are usually still mutually intelligible. Some have combined, however, which has even resulted in completely new languages, such as Papiamento, which is a combination of Portuguese, Spanish, Dutch (representing the respective colonizers), native Arawak, various African languages, and, more recently English. The lingua franca Portuñol, a mixture of Portuguese and Spanish, is spoken in the border regions of Brazil and neighboring Spanish-speaking countries. More specifically, Riverense Portuñol is spoken by around 100,000 people in the border regions of Brazil and Uruguay. Because of immigration, there are many communities where other languages are spoken from all parts of the world, especially in the United States, Brazil, Argentina, Canada, Chile, Costa Rica and Uruguay—very important destinations for immigrants.\n\nSpeakers of English generally refer to the landmasses of North America and South America as \"the Americas\", the \"Western Hemisphere\", or the \"New World\". The adjective \"American\" may be used to indicate something pertains to the Americas, but this term is primarily used in English to indicate something pertaining to the United States. Some non-ambiguous alternatives exist, such as the adjective \"Pan-American\", or \"New Worlder\" as a demonym for a resident of the closely related New World. Use of \"America\" in the hemispherical sense is sometimes retained, or can occur when translated from other languages. For example, the Association of National Olympic Committees (ANOC) in Paris maintains a single continental association for \"America\", represented by one of the five Olympic rings.\n\nAmerican linguist H.L. Mencken said, \" The Latin-Americans use Norteamericano in formal writing, but, save in Panama, prefer nicknames in colloquial speech.\" To avoid \"American\" one can use constructed terms in their languages derived from \"United States\" or even \"North America\". In Canada, its southern neighbor is often referred to as \"the United States\", \"the U.S.A.\", or (informally) \"the States\", while U.S. citizens are generally referred to as \"Americans\". Most Canadians resent being referred to as \"Americans\".\n\nIn Spanish, \"América\" is a single continent composed of the subcontinents of \"América del Sur\" and \"América del Norte\", the land bridge of \"América Central\", and the islands of the \"Antillas\". \"Americano\" or \"americana\" in Spanish refers to a person from \"América\" in a similar way that \"europeo\" or \"europea\" refers to a person from \"Europa\". The terms \"sudamericano/a\", \"centroamericano/a\", \"antillano/a\" and \"norteamericano/a\" can be used to more specifically refer to the location where a person may live.\n\nCitizens of the United States of America are normally referred to by the term \"estadounidense\" (rough literal translation: \"United Statesian\") instead of \"americano\" or \"americana\" which is discouraged, and the country's name itself is officially translated as \"Estados Unidos de América\" (United States of America), commonly abbreviated as \"Estados Unidos\" (EEUU). Also, the term \"norteamericano\" (North American) may refer to a citizen of the United States. This term is primarily used to refer to citizens of the United States, and less commonly to those of other North American countries.\n\nIn Portuguese, \"\" is a single continent composed of \"América do Sul\" (South America), \"América Central\" (Central America) and \"América do Norte\" (North America). It can be ambiguous, as \"América\" can be used to refer to the United States of America, but is avoided in print and formal environments.\n\nIn French the word \"américain\" may be used for things relating to the Americas; however, similar to English, it is most often used for things relating to the United States. \"Panaméricain\" may be used as an adjective to refer to the Americas without ambiguity. French speakers may use the noun \"Amérique\" to refer to the whole landmass as one continent, or two continents, \"Amérique du Nord\" and \"Amérique du Sud\". In French, \"Amérique\" is also used to refer to the United States, making the term ambiguous. Similar to English usage, \"les Amériques\" or \"des Amériques\" is used to refer unambiguously to the Americas.\n\nIn Dutch, the word \"Amerika\" mostly refers to the United States. Although the United States is equally often referred to as \"de Verenigde Staten\" (\"the United States\") or \"de VS\" (\"the US\"), \"Amerika\" relatively rarely refers to the Americas, but it is the only commonly used Dutch word for the Americas. This often leads to ambiguity; and to stress that something concerns the Americas as a whole, Dutch uses a combination, namely \"Noord- en Zuid-Amerika\" (North and South America).\n\nLatin America is generally referred to as \"Latijns Amerika\" or \"Midden-Amerika\" for Central America.\n\nThe adjective \"Amerikaans\" is most often used for things or people relating to the United States. There are no alternative words to distinguish between things relating to the United States or to the Americas. Dutch uses the local alternative for things relating to elsewhere in the Americas, such as \"Argentijns\" for Argentine, etc.\n\nThe following is a list of multinational organizations in the Americas.\n\nThe U.S. has the fastest-growing economy in the Americas according to a 2016 study conducted by the International Monetary Fund (IMF), and has the highest GDP per capita in the Americas as well. Countries in the northern part of the Americas tend to have healthier and stronger economies than countries in the southern part of the Americas.\n\nIn 2016, five to seven countries in the southern part of the Americas had weakening economies in decline, compared to only three countries in the northern part of the Americas. Haiti has the lowest GDP per capita in the Americas, although its economy was growing slightly .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51838327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51838327", "title": "Azonal", "text": "Azonal\n\nIn geography azonal is an adjective that refers to processes or things that are not restricted to any climate zone. It can be used to describe soils, landforms, geomorphic processes or vegetation. In some climatic environments azonal geomorphologic processes may take distinct characteristics. For example, river activity is common across the globe, but in periglacial environments it causes spring floods from snowmelt, freezing and break-up cycles, and sometimes fluvio-thermal erosion.\n\n"}
{"id": "24692678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24692678", "title": "Benmoreite", "text": "Benmoreite\n\nBenmoreite is a silica-undersaturated volcanic rock of intermediate composition. It is a sodium-rich variety of trachyandesite and belongs to the alkalic suite of igneous rocks. \n\nAn origin by fractionation from basanite through nepheline hawaiite to nepheline benmoreite has been demonstrated for a volcanic suite in the McMurdo Volcanic Group of late Cenozoic age in McMurdo Sound area of Antarctica. Nepheline benmoreite magmas derived from mantle sources, containing lherzolite xenoliths, display similarities to some plutonic nepheline syenites.\n"}
{"id": "13441593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13441593", "title": "Betalain", "text": "Betalain\n\nBetalains are a class of red and yellow indole-derived pigments found in plants of the Caryophyllales, where they replace anthocyanin pigments. Betalains also occur in some higher order fungi. They are most often noticeable in the petals of flowers, but may color the fruits, leaves, stems, and roots of plants that contain them. They include pigments such as those found in beets.\n\nThe name \"betalain\" comes from the Latin name of the common beet (\"Beta vulgaris\"), from which betalains were first extracted. The deep red color of beets, bougainvillea, amaranth, and many cacti results from the presence of betalain pigments. The particular shades of red to purple are distinctive and unlike that of anthocyanin pigments found in most plants.\n\nThere are two categories of betalains:\n\nPlant physiologists are uncertain of the function that betalains serve in those plants which possess them, but there is some preliminary evidence that they may have fungicidal properties. Furthermore, betalains have been found in fluorescent flowers.\n\nIt was once thought that betalains were related to anthocyanins, the reddish pigments found in most plants. Both betalains and anthocyanins are water-soluble pigments found in the vacuoles of plant cells. However, betalains are structurally and chemically unlike anthocyanins and the two have never been found in the same plant together. For example, betalains contain nitrogen whereas anthocyanins do not.\n\nIt is now known that betalains are aromatic indole derivatives synthesized from tyrosine. They are not related chemically to the anthocyanins and are not even flavonoids. Each betalain is a glycoside, and consists of a sugar and a colored portion. Their synthesis is promoted by light.\n\nThe most heavily studied betalain is betanin, also called beetroot red after the fact that it may be extracted from red beet roots. Betanin is a glucoside, and hydrolyzes into the sugar glucose and betanidin. It is used as a food coloring agent, and the color is sensitive to pH. Other betalains known to occur in beets are isobetanin, probetanin, and neobetanin. The color and antioxidant capacity of betanin and indicaxanthin (betaxanthin derived of L-proline) are affected by dielectric microwave heating. Addition of TFE (2,2,2-trifluoroethanol) is reported to improve the hydrolytic stability of some betalains in aqueous solution. Furthermore, a betanin-europium(III) complex has been used to detect calcium dipicolinate in bacterial spores, including \"Bacillus anthracis\" and \"B. cereus\".\n\nOther important betacyanins are amaranthine and isoamaranthine, isolated from species of \"Amaranthus\".\n\nBetalain pigments occur only in the Caryophyllales and some Basidiomycota (mushrooms), for instance Hygrophoraceae (waxcaps). Where they occur in plants, they sometimes coexist with anthoxanthins (yellow to orange flavonoids), but never occur in plant species with anthocyanins.\n\nAmong the flowering plant order Caryophyllales, most members produce betalains and lack anthocyanins. Of all the families in the Caryophyllales, only the Caryophyllaceae (carnation family) and Molluginaceae produce anthocyanins instead of betalains. The limited distribution of betalains among plants is a synapomorphy for the Caryophyllales, though their production has been lost in two families.\n\nBetanin is commercially used as a natural food dye. It can cause beeturia (red urine) and red feces in some people who are unable to break it down. The interest of the food industry in betalains has grown since they were identified by \"in vitro\" methods as antioxidants, which may protect against oxidation of low-density lipoproteins.\n\nBetanin extracted from the red beet was used as starting material for the semisynthesis of an artificial betalainic coumarin, which was applied as a fluorescent probe for the live-cell imaging of \"Plasmodium\"-infected erythrocytes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19630739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19630739", "title": "Continent", "text": "Continent\n\nA continent is one of several very large landmasses of the world. Generally identified by convention rather than any strict criteria, up to seven regions are commonly regarded as continents. Ordered from largest in area to smallest, they are: Asia, Africa, North America, South America, Antarctica, Europe, and Australia.\n\nGeologically, the continents largely correspond to areas of continental crust that are found on the continental plates. However, some areas of continental crust are regions covered with water not usually included in the list of continents. Zealandia is one such area (see submerged continents below).\n\nIslands are frequently grouped with a neighbouring continent to divide all the world's land into geopolitical regions. Under this scheme, most of the island countries and territories in the Pacific Ocean are grouped together with the continent of Australia to form a geopolitical region called \"Oceania\".\n\nBy convention, \"continents are understood to be large, continuous, discrete masses of land, ideally separated by expanses of water.\" Several of the seven conventionally recognized continents are not discrete landmasses separated completely by water. The criterion \"large\" leads to arbitrary classification: Greenland, with a surface area of is considered the world's largest island, while Australia, at is deemed the smallest continent.\n\nEarth's major landmasses all have coasts on a single, continuous World Ocean, which is divided into a number of principal oceanic components by the continents and various geographic criteria.\n\nThe most restricted meaning of \"continent\" is that of a continuous area of land or mainland, with the coastline and any land boundaries forming the edge of the continent. In this sense the term \"continental Europe\" (sometimes referred to in Britain as \"the Continent\") is used to refer to mainland Europe, excluding islands such as Great Britain, Ireland, Malta and Iceland, and the term \"continent of Australia\" may refer to the mainland of Australia, excluding Tasmania and New Guinea. Similarly, the \"continental United States\" refers to the 48 contiguous states and the District of Columbia in central North America and may include Alaska in the northwest of the continent (the two being separated by Canada), while excluding Hawaii, Puerto Rico, and Guam in the oceans.\n\nFrom the perspective of geology or physical geography, \"continent\" may be extended beyond the confines of continuous dry land to include the shallow, submerged adjacent area (the continental shelf) and the islands on the shelf (continental islands), as they are structurally part of the continent.\n\nFrom this perspective, the edge of the continental shelf is the true edge of the continent, as shorelines vary with changes in sea level. In this sense the islands of Great Britain and Ireland are part of Europe, while Australia and the island of New Guinea together form a continent.\n\nAs a cultural construct, the concept of a continent may go beyond the continental shelf to include oceanic islands and continental fragments. In this way, Iceland is considered part of Europe and Madagascar part of Africa. Extrapolating the concept to its extreme, some geographers group the Australian continental plate with other islands in the Pacific into one continent called Oceania. This divides the entire land surface of Earth into continents or quasi-continents.\n\nThe ideal criterion that each continent is a discrete landmass is commonly relaxed due to historical conventions. Of the seven most globally recognized continents, only Antarctica and Australia are completely separated from other continents by the ocean. Several continents are defined not as absolutely distinct bodies but as \"\"more or less\" discrete masses of land\". Asia and Africa are joined by the Isthmus of Suez, and North and South America by the Isthmus of Panama. In both cases, there is no complete separation of these landmasses by water (disregarding the Suez Canal and Panama Canal, which are both narrow and shallow, as well as being artificial). Both these isthmuses are very narrow compared to the bulk of the landmasses they unite.\n\nNorth America and South America are treated as separate continents in the seven-continent model. However, they may also be viewed as a single continent known as America or the Americas. This viewpoint was common in the United States until World War II, and remains prevalent in some Asian six-continent models. This remains the more common vision in Latin American countries, Spain, Portugal, France, Italy and Greece, where they are taught as a single continent.\n\nThe criterion of a discrete landmass is completely disregarded if the continuous landmass of Eurasia is classified as two separate continents: Europe and Asia. Physiographically, Europe and South Asia are peninsulas of the Eurasian landmass. However, Europe is widely considered a continent with its comparatively large land area of , while South Asia, with less than half that area, is considered a subcontinent. The alternative view—in geology and geography—that Eurasia is a single continent results in a six-continent view of the world. Some view separation of Eurasia into Asia and Europe as a residue of Eurocentrism: \"In physical, cultural and historical diversity, China and India are comparable to the entire European landmass, not to a single European country. [...].\" However, for historical and cultural reasons, the view of Europe as a separate continent continues in several categorizations.\n\nIf continents are defined strictly as discrete landmasses, embracing all the contiguous land of a body, then Africa, Asia, and Europe form a single continent which may be referred to as Afro-Eurasia. This produces a four-continent model consisting of Afro-Eurasia, America, Antarctica and Australia.\n\nWhen sea levels were lower during the Pleistocene ice ages, greater areas of continental shelf were exposed as dry land, forming land bridges. At those times Australia–New Guinea was a single, continuous continent. Likewise, the Americas and Afro-Eurasia were joined by the Bering land bridge. Other islands such as Great Britain were joined to the mainlands of their continents. At that time there were just three discrete continents: Afro-Eurasia-America, Antarctica, and Australia-New Guinea.\n\nThere are several ways of distinguishing the continents:\n\n\nThe term \"Oceania\" refers to a group of island countries and territories in the Pacific Ocean, together with the continent of Australia. Pacific islands with ties to other continents (such as Japan, Hawaii or Easter Island) are usually grouped with those continents rather than Oceania. This term is used in several different continental models instead of Australia.\n\nThe following table summarizes the area and population of each continental region using the seven continent model.\n\nThe total land area of all continents is , or 29.1% of earth's surface ().\n\nAside from the conventionally known continents, the scope and meaning of the term \"continent\" varies. Supercontinents, largely in evidence earlier in the geological record, are landmasses that comprise more than one craton or continental core. These have included Laurasia, Gondwana, Vaalbara, Kenorland, Columbia, Rodinia, and Pangaea.\n\nCertain parts of continents are recognized as subcontinents, especially the large peninsulas separated from the main continental landmass by geographical features. The most notable examples are the Indian subcontinent and the Arabian Peninsula. The Southern Cone of South America and Alaskan peninsula of North America are other examples.\n\nIn many of these cases, the \"subcontinents\" concerned are on different tectonic plates from the rest of the continent, providing a geological justification for the terminology. Greenland, generally reckoned as the world's largest island on the northeastern periphery of the North American Plate, is sometimes referred to as a subcontinent. This is a significant departure from the more conventional view of a subcontinent as comprising a very large peninsula on the fringe of a continent.\n\nWhere the Americas are viewed as a single continent (America), it is divided into two subcontinents (North America and South America) or three (with Central America being the third). When Eurasia is regarded as a single continent, Europe is treated as a subcontinent.\n\nSome areas of continental crust are largely covered by the sea and may be considered submerged continents. Notable examples are Zealandia, emerging from the sea primarily in New Zealand and New Caledonia, and the almost completely submerged Kerguelen Plateau in the southern Indian Ocean.\n\nSome islands lie on sections of continental crust that have rifted and drifted apart from a main continental landmass. While not considered continents because of their relatively small size, they may be considered microcontinents. Madagascar, the largest example, is usually considered an island of Africa but has been referred to as \"the eighth continent\" from a .\n\n\"Continents\" may be defined differently for specific purposes. The Biodiversity Information Standards organization has developed the World Geographical Scheme for Recording Plant Distributions, used in many international plant databases. This scheme divides the world into nine \"botanical continents\". Some match the traditional geographical continents, but some differ significantly. Thus the Americas are divided between Northern America (Mexico northwards) and Southern America (Central America and the Caribbean southwards) rather than between North America and South America.\n\nThe term \"continent\" translates Greek , properly \"landmass, terra firma\", the proper name of Epirus and later especially used of Asia (i.e. Asia Minor),\nThe first distinction between continents was made by ancient Greek mariners who gave the names Europe and Asia to the lands on either side of the waterways of the Aegean Sea, the Dardanelles strait, the Sea of Marmara, the Bosporus strait and the Black Sea. The names were first applied just to lands near the coast and only later extended to include the hinterlands. But the division was only carried through to the end of navigable waterways and \"... beyond that point the Hellenic geographers never succeeded in laying their finger on any inland feature in the physical landscape that could offer any convincing line for partitioning an indivisible Eurasia ...\"\n\nAncient Greek thinkers subsequently debated whether Africa (then called \"Libya\") should be considered part of Asia or a third part of the world. Division into three parts eventually came to predominate. From the Greek viewpoint, the Aegean Sea was the center of the world; Asia lay to the east, Europe to the north and west, and Africa to the south. The boundaries between the continents were not fixed. Early on, Europe–Asia boundary was taken to run from the Black Sea along the Rioni River (known then as the \"Phasis\") in Georgia. Later it was viewed as running from the Black Sea through Kerch Strait, the Sea of Azov and along the Don River (known then as the \"Tanais\") in Russia. The boundary between Asia and Africa was generally taken to be the Nile River. Herodotus in the 5th century BC, however, objected to the unity of Egypt being split into Asia and Africa (\"Libya\") and took the boundary to lie along the western border of Egypt, regarding Egypt as part of Asia. He also questioned the division into three of what is really a single landmass, a debate that continues nearly two and a half millennia later.\n\nEratosthenes, in the 3rd century BC, noted that some geographers divided the continents by rivers (the Nile and the Don), thus considering them \"islands\". Others divided the continents by isthmuses, calling the continents \"peninsulas\". These latter geographers set the border between Europe and Asia at the isthmus between the Black Sea and the Caspian Sea, and the border between Asia and Africa at the isthmus between the Red Sea and the mouth of Lake Bardawil on the Mediterranean Sea.\nThrough the Roman period and the Middle Ages, a few writers took the Isthmus of Suez as the boundary between Asia and Africa, but most writers continued to consider it the Nile or the western border of Egypt (Gibbon). In the Middle Ages, the world was usually portrayed on T and O maps, with the T representing the waters dividing the three continents. By the middle of the 18th century, \"the fashion of dividing Asia and Africa at the Nile, or at the Great Catabathmus [the boundary between Egypt and Libya] farther west, had even then scarcely passed away\".\n\nChristopher Columbus sailed across the Atlantic Ocean to the West Indies in 1492, sparking a period of European exploration of the Americas. But despite four voyages to the Americas, Columbus never believed he had reached a new continent—he always thought it was part of Asia.\n\nIn 1501, Amerigo Vespucci and Gonçalo Coelho attempted to sail around what they considered the southern end of the Asian mainland into the Indian Ocean, passing through Fernando de Noronha. After reaching the coast of Brazil, they sailed a long way further south along the coast of South America, confirming that this was a land of continental proportions and that it also extended much further south than Asia was known to. On return to Europe, an account of the voyage, called \"Mundus Novus\" (\"New World\"), was published under Vespucci's name in 1502 or 1503, although it seems that it had additions or alterations by another writer. Regardless of who penned the words, \"Mundus Novus\" credited Vespucci with saying, \"I have discovered a continent in those southern regions that is inhabited by more numerous people and animals than our Europe, or Asia or Africa\", the first known explicit identification of part of the Americas as a continent like the other three.\n\nWithin a few years, the name \"New World\" began appearing as a name for South America on world maps, such as the Oliveriana (Pesaro) map of around 1504–1505. Maps of this time though, still showed North America connected to Asia and showed South America as a separate land.\n\nIn 1507 Martin Waldseemüller published a world map, \"Universalis Cosmographia\", which was the first to show North and South America as separate from Asia and surrounded by water. A small inset map above the main map explicitly showed for the first time the Americas being east of Asia and separated from Asia by an ocean, as opposed to just placing the Americas on the left end of the map and Asia on the right end. In the accompanying book \"Cosmographiae Introductio\", Waldseemüller noted that the earth is divided into four parts, Europe, Asia, Africa and the fourth part, which he named \"America\" after Amerigo Vespucci's first name. On the map, the word \"America\" was placed on part of South America.\n\nFrom the 16th century the English noun \"continent\" was derived from the term \"continent land\", meaning continuous or connected land and translated from the Latin \"terra continens\". The noun was used to mean \"a connected or continuous tract of land\" or mainland. It was not applied only to very large areas of land—in the 17th century, references were made to the \"continents\" (or mainlands) of Isle of Man, Ireland and Wales and in 1745 to Sumatra. The word \"continent\" was used in translating Greek and Latin writings about the three \"parts\" of the world, although in the original languages no word of exactly the same meaning as \"continent\" was used.\n\nWhile \"continent\" was used on the one hand for relatively small areas of continuous land, on the other hand geographers again raised Herodotus's query about why a single large landmass should be divided into separate continents. In the mid-17th century, Peter Heylin wrote in his \"Cosmographie\" that \"A Continent is a great quantity of Land, not separated by any Sea from the rest of the World, as the whole Continent of Europe, Asia, Africa.\" In 1727, Ephraim Chambers wrote in his \"Cyclopædia,\" \"The world is ordinarily divided into two grand continents: the old and the new.\" And in his 1752 atlas, Emanuel Bowen defined a continent as \"a large space of dry land comprehending many countries all joined together, without any separation by water. Thus Europe, Asia, and Africa is one great continent, as America is another.\" However, the old idea of Europe, Asia and Africa as \"parts\" of the world ultimately persisted with these being regarded as separate continents.\n\nFrom the late 18th century, some geographers started to regard North America and South America as two parts of the world, making five parts in total. Overall though, the fourfold division prevailed well into the 19th century.\n\nEuropeans discovered Australia in 1606, but for some time it was taken as part of Asia. By the late 18th century, some geographers considered it a continent in its own right, making it the sixth (or fifth for those still taking America as a single continent). In 1813, Samuel Butler wrote of Australia as \"New Holland, an immense island, which some geographers dignify with the appellation of another continent\" and the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" was just as equivocal some decades later.\n\nAntarctica was sighted in 1820 during the First Russian Antarctic Expedition and described as a continent by Charles Wilkes on the United States Exploring Expedition in 1838, the last continent identified, although a great \"Antarctic\" (antipodean) landmass had been anticipated for millennia. An 1849 atlas labelled Antarctica as a continent but few atlases did so until after World War II.\n\nFrom the mid-19th century, atlases published in the United States more commonly treated North and South America as separate continents, while atlases published in Europe usually considered them one continent. However, it was still not uncommon for American atlases to treat them as one continent up until World War II.\n\nFrom the 1950s, most U.S. geographers divided the Americas into two continents. With the addition of Antarctica, this made the seven-continent model. However, this division of the Americas never appealed to Latin Americans, who saw their region spanning an as a single landmass, and there the conception of six continents remains dominant, as it does in scattered other countries.\n\nSome geographers regard Europe and Asia together as a single continent, dubbed \"Eurasia\". In this model, the world is divided into six continents, with North America and South America considered separate continents.\n\nGeologists use the term \"continent\" in a different manner from geographers. In geology a continent is defined by continental crust: a platform of metamorphic and igneous rock, largely of granitic composition. Some geologists restrict the term 'continent' to portions of the crust built around stable Precambrian \"shield\", typically 1.5 to 3.8 billion years old, called a craton. The craton itself is an accretionary complex of ancient mobile belts (mountain belts) from earlier cycles of subduction, continental collision and break-up from plate tectonic activity. An outward-thickening veneer of younger minimally deformed sedimentary rock covers much of the craton. The margins of geologic continents are characterized by currently active or relatively recently active mobile belts and deep troughs of accumulated marine or deltaic sediments. Beyond the margin, there is either a continental shelf and drop off to the basaltic ocean basin or the margin of another continent, depending on the current plate-tectonic setting of the continent. A continental boundary does not have to be a body of water. Over geologic time, continents are periodically submerged under large epicontinental seas, and continental collisions result in a continent becoming attached to another continent. The current geologic era is relatively anomalous in that so much of the continental areas are \"high and dry\"; that is, many parts of the continents that were once below sea level are now elevated well above it due to changes in sea levels and the subsequent uplifting of those continental areas from tectonic activity.\n\nSome argue that continents are accretionary crustal \"rafts\" that, unlike the denser basaltic crust of the ocean basins, are not subjected to destruction through the plate tectonic process of subduction. This accounts for the great age of the rocks comprising the continental cratons. By this definition, Eastern Europe, India and some other regions could be regarded as continental masses distinct from the rest of Eurasia because they have separate ancient shield areas (i.e. East European craton and Indian craton). Younger mobile belts (such as the Ural Mountains and Himalayas) mark the boundaries between these regions and the rest of Eurasia.\n\nThere are many microcontinents, or continental fragments, that are built of continental crust but do not contain a craton. Some of these are fragments of Gondwana or other ancient cratonic continents: Zealandia, which includes New Zealand and New Caledonia; Madagascar; the northern Mascarene Plateau, which includes the Seychelles. Other islands, such as several in the Caribbean Sea, are composed largely of granitic rock as well, but all continents contain both granitic and basaltic crust, and there is no clear boundary as to which islands would be considered microcontinents under such a definition. The Kerguelen Plateau, for example, is largely volcanic, but is associated with the breakup of Gondwanaland and is considered a microcontinent, whereas volcanic Iceland and Hawaii are not. The British Isles, Sri Lanka, Borneo, and Newfoundland are margins of the Laurasian continent—only separated by inland seas flooding its margins.\n\nPlate tectonics offers yet another way of defining continents. Today, Europe and most of Asia constitute the unified Eurasian Plate, which is approximately coincident with the geographic Eurasian continent excluding India, Arabia, and far eastern Russia. India contains a central shield, and the geologically recent Himalaya mobile belt forms its northern margin. North America and South America are separate continents, the connecting isthmus being largely the result of volcanism from relatively recent subduction tectonics. North American continental rocks extend to Greenland (a portion of the Canadian Shield), and in terms of plate boundaries, the North American plate includes the easternmost portion of the Asian landmass. Geologists do not use these facts to suggest that eastern Asia is part of the North American continent, even though the plate boundary extends there; the word continent is usually used in its geographic sense and additional definitions (\"continental rocks,\" \"plate boundaries\") are used as appropriate.\n\nThe movement of plates has caused the formation and break-up of continents over time, including occasional formation of a supercontinent that contains most or all of the continents. The supercontinent Columbia or Nuna formed during a period of 2.0–1.8 billion years ago and broke up about 1.5–1.3 billion years ago. The supercontinent Rodinia is thought to have formed about 1 billion years ago and to have embodied most or all of Earth's continents, and broken up into eight continents around 600 million years ago. The eight continents later re-assembled into another supercontinent called Pangaea; Pangaea broke up into Laurasia (which became North America and Eurasia) and Gondwana (which became the remaining continents).\n\nThe following table lists the seven continents with their highest and lowest points on land, sorted in decreasing highest points.\n\n† The lowest exposed points are given for North America and Antarctica. The lowest non-submarine bedrock elevations in these continents are the trough beneath Jakobshavn Glacier () and Bentley Subglacial Trench (), but these are covered by kilometers of ice.\n\nSome sources list the Kuma–Manych Depression (a remnant of the Paratethys) as the geological border between Europe and Asia. This would place the Caucasus outside of Europe, thus making Mont Blanc (elevation 4810 m) in the Graian Alps the highest point in Europe – the lowest point would still be the shore of the Caspian Sea.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2108032", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2108032", "title": "Cooperative Institute for Climate and Ocean Research", "text": "Cooperative Institute for Climate and Ocean Research\n\nThe Cooperative Institute for Climate and Ocean Research (CICOR) formalizes a major collaborative relationship between the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration (NOAA) Office of Oceanic and Atmospheric Research (OAR) and the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution (WHOI).\n\nCICOR provides a framework at WHOI for coordinating NOAA-funded research and for developing cooperative NOAA-funded research at academic institutions in the northeastern United States. CICOR also provides NOAA investigators with access to WHOI facilities, including 4 ships and 2 submersibles, and the Northeast National Ion Microprobe Facility.\n\nThe CICOR research themes are:\n\n"}
{"id": "34511184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34511184", "title": "Current meter", "text": "Current meter\n\nA current meter is oceanographic device for flow measurement by mechanical (rotor current meter), tilt (Tilt Current Meter), acoustical (ADCP) or electrical means.\n\nIn physics, one distinguishes different reference frames depending on where the observer is located, this is the basics for\nthe Lagrangian and Eulerian specification of the flow field in fluid dynamics: The observer can be either in the Moving frame (as for a Lagrangian drifter) or in a resting frame. \n\nMechanical current meters are mostly based on counting the rotations of a propeller and are thus rotor current meters. A mid-20th-century realization is the Ekman current meter which drops balls into a container to count the number of rotations. The Roberts radio current meter is a device mounted on a moored buoy and transmits its findings via radio to a servicing vessel. Savonius current meters rotate around a vertical axis in order to minimize error introduced by vertical motion.\n\nThere are two basic types of acoustic current meters: Doppler and Travel Time. Both methods use a ceramic transducer to emit a sound into the water.\n\nDoppler instruments are more common. An instrument of this type is the Acoustic Doppler current profiler (ADCP), which measures the water current velocities over a depth range using the Doppler effect of sound waves scattered back from particles within the water column. The ADCPs use the traveling time of the sound to determine the position of the moving particles. Single-point devices use again the Doppler shift, but ignoring the traveling times. Such a single-point Doppler Current Sensor (DCS) has a typical velocity range of 0 to 300 cm/s. The devices are usually equipped with additional optional sensors.\n\nTravel time instruments determine water velocity by at least two acoustic signals, one up stream and one down stream. By precisely measuring the time to travel from the emitter to the receiver, in both directions, the average water speed can be determined between the two points. By using multiple paths, the water velocity can be determined in three dimensions.\n\nTravel time meters are generally more accurate than Doppler meters, but only record the velocity between the transducers. Doppler meters have the advantage that they can determine the water velocity at a considerable range, and in the case of an ADCP, at multiple ranges.\n\nThis novel approach is for instance employed in the Florida Strait where electromagnetic induction in submerged telephone cable is used to estimate the through-flow through the gateway and the complete setup can be seen as one huge current meter. The physics behind: Charged particles (the ions in seawater) are moving with the ocean currents in the magnetic field of the Earth which is perpendicular to the movement. Using Faraday's law of induction (the third of Maxwell's equations), it is possible to evaluate the variability of the averaged horizontal flow by measuring the induced electric currents. The method has a minor vertical weighting effect due to small conductivity changes at different depths.\n\nTilt current meters operate under the drag-tilt principle and are designed to either float or sink depending on the type. A floating tilt current meter typically consists of a sub-surface buoyant housing that is anchored to the sea floor with a flexible line or tether. A sinking tilt current is similar, but the housing is designed such that the meter hangs from the attachment point. In either case, the housing tilts as a function of its shape, buoyancy (negative or positive) and the water velocity. Once the characteristics of a housing is known, the velocity can be determined by measuring the angle of the housing and direction of tilt. The housing contains a data logger that records the orientation (angle from vertical and compass bearing) of the Tilt Current Meter. Floating tilt current meters are typically deployed on the bottom with a lead or concrete anchor but may be deployed on lobster traps or other convenient anchors of opportunity. Sinking tilt current meters may be attached to an oceanographic mooring, floating dock or fish pen. Tilt current meters have the advantage over other methods of measuring current in that they are generally relatively low-cost instruments and the design and operation is relatively simple. The low-cost of the instrument may allow researchers to use the meters in greater numbers (thereby increasing spatial density) and/or in locations where there is a risk of instrument loss.\n\nCurrent meters are usually deployed within an oceanographic mooring consisting of an anchor weight on the ground, a mooring line with the instrument(s) connected to it and a floating device to keep the mooring line more or less vertical. Like a kite in the wind, the actual shape of the mooring line will not be completely straight, but following a so-called (half-)catenary.\nUnder the influence of water currents (and wind if the top buoy is above the sea surface) the shape of the mooring line can be determined and by this the actual depth of the instruments. If the currents are strong (above 0.1 m/s) and the mooring lines are long (more than 1 km), the instrument position may vary up to 50 m.\n\n"}
{"id": "10495593", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10495593", "title": "Don L. Johnson", "text": "Don L. Johnson\n\nDon L. Johnson (March 18, 1927 – January 20, 2006) was an outdoor writer from Wisconsin. His career included nature writing, investigative reporting on environmental issues, and traditional outdoor writing about hunting, fishing, and related pursuits.\n\nBorn March 18, 1927, Johnson grew up in Milwaukee County, Wisconsin, but spent much of his boyhood on family farms in Dodge and Buffalo counties, hunting and fishing. He graduated from Nathan Hale High School in West Allis, then served with the U.S. Navy in combat forces in the South Pacific during World War II. In 1949, he married Lorraine Senn. The couple had a son, Douglas, and a daughter, Lynn. He attended the University of Wisconsin in Madison, where he studied conservation and journalism and where he met Aldo Leopold. After graduating, he worked for several newspapers in northern Wisconsin and Minnesota.\n\nIn 1962, Johnson joined \"The Milwaukee Sentinel\" as the newspaper's outdoor writer, a post he held until 1984. During those years, Johnson reported on hunting, fishing, and wildlife throughout Wisconsin. He also reported on conservation issues, including an exposé of mercury pollution in the Wisconsin River and a series on pesticide pollution. In 1966, Johnson wrote a series of investigative reports about high concentrations of DDT in state waters. Despite threats of lawsuits and demands by chemical companies that he be fired, Johnson kept pursuing environmental stories. The series played a key role in making Wisconsin the first state to ban DDT, which ultimately led to a national ban.\n\nIn another series, Johnson challenged the U.S. Army Corps of Engineers as it tried to ditch and drain the Cache River bottomlands in Arkansas, for which he received an award from the Arkansas Wildlife Federation.\n\nJohnson also took notes on his nature hikes, which he crafted into vignettes, many published in the \"Milwaukee Sentinel\" during the years that he worked as outdoor writer for that newspaper. In November 2005, a collection of his nature essays was published, titled \"Summer's Song and Other Essays\".\n\nJohnson left the \"Sentinel\" in 1984, but continued to write, freelancing articles and photographs to magazines. He published a 1995 book \"Grouse & Woodcock: A Gunner's Guide\".\n\nJohnson was an adventurer who hiked, hunted, fished, and photographed in such far-flung places as Africa, Cuba, the Andes, the Amazon, Mexico, the Yukon, and Alaska.\n\nJohnson died on January 20, 2006, after a struggle with both Parkinson's disease and cancer.\n\n"}
{"id": "3405137", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3405137", "title": "Energy Retail Association", "text": "Energy Retail Association\n\nThe Energy Retail Association (ERA) was a trade association which promoted the interests of electricity and gas retailers in the domestic market in Great Britain, formed in 2003. In April 2012 it merged with the Association of Electricity Producers and the UK Business Council for Sustainable Energy to become Energy UK.\n\n"}
{"id": "2658458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2658458", "title": "Energy in Japan", "text": "Energy in Japan\n\nEnergy in Japan refers to energy and electricity production, consumption, import and export in Japan. The country's primary energy consumption was 477.6 Mtoe in 2011, a decrease of 5% over the previous year.\n\nThe country lacks significant domestic reserves of fossil fuel, except coal, and must import substantial amounts of crude oil, natural gas, and other energy resources, including uranium. Japan relied on oil imports to meet about 84 percent of its energy needs in 2010. Japan was also the first coal importer in 2010, with 187 Mt (about 20% of total world coal import), and the first natural gas importer with 99 bcm (12.1% of world total gas import).\n\nWhile Japan had previously relied on nuclear power to meet about 30% of its electricity needs, after the 2011 Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster all nuclear reactors have been progressively shut down for safety concerns. Ōi Nuclear Power Plant's reactor No. 3 was eventually restarted on 2 July 2012. However, in September 2013 the plant was shut down in order for Ōi Nuclear Power Plant to undergo safety inspections and pass legal checks in order to reopen. On August 11, 2015 and November 1, 2015 the two reactors at the Sendai Nuclear Power Plant restarted. Following the Fukushima disaster, the general public has opposed the use of nuclear energy.\n\nJapan's rapid industrial growth since the end of World War II doubled the nation's energy consumption every five years into the 1990s. During the 1960–72 period of accelerated growth, energy consumption grew much faster than GNP, doubling Japan's consumption of world energy. By 1976, with only 3% of the world's population, Japan was consuming 6% of global energy supplies.\n\nCompared with other nations, electricity in Japan is relatively expensive, and, since the loss of nuclear power after the earthquake and tsunami disaster at Fukushima, the cost of electricity has risen significantly.\n\nIn 1950 coal supplied half of Japan's energy needs, hydroelectricity one-third, and oil the rest. By 2001 the contribution of oil had increased to 50.2% of the total, with rises also in the use of nuclear power and natural gas. Japan now depends heavily on imported fossil fuels to meet its energy demand.\n\nJapan currently produces about 10% of its electricity from renewable sources. The Fourth Strategic Energy Plan set the renewable share goal to be 24% by 2030. In the next 15 years, Japan intends on investing $700 billion into renewable energy. One initiative the Japanese government has implemented in order to boost the amount of renewable energy produced and purchased in Japan is the feed-in tariff scheme. The scheme encourages companies to invest in renewable energy by providing set prices for various types of renewable energy. The initiatives appear to be working, as renewable energy generation capacity now stands at 26.2 GW, compared to 20.9 GW in 2012.\n\nOn 3 July 2018, Japan's government pledged to increase renewable energy sources from 15% to 22-24% including wind and solar by 2030. Nuclear energy will provide 20% of the country's energy needs as an emissions-free energy source. This will help Japan meet climate change commitments.\n\nIn the wake of the two oil crises of the 1970s (1973 and 1979), Japan made efforts to diversify energy resources in order to increase security. Japan's domestic oil consumption dropped slightly, from around of oil per day in the late 1970s to per day in 1990. While the country's use of oil declined, its consumption of nuclear power and Natural gas rose substantially. Several Japanese industries, including electric power companies and steelmakers, switched from petroleum to coal, most of which is imported.\n\nThe state stockpile equals about 92 days of consumption and the privately held stockpiles equal another 77 days of consumption for a total of 169 days or . The Japanese SPR is run by the Japan Oil, Gas and Metals National Corporation.\n\nOil demand has been waning in Japan, especially leading up to and since the Tohoku earthquake in 2011.\nWhile oil consumption was over 5 million barrels per day (bpd) for decades, this had declined to 3.22 million bpd by 2017. \nAs of 2016, both India and Texas have overtaken Japan in oil consumption.\n\nFollowing Eisenhower's Atoms for Peace speech, the United States helped Japan develop their nuclear power program. When Japan decided to embark on the nuclear power field, it imported technology from the United States and obtained uranium from Canada, France, South Africa, and Australia. The first nuclear reactor was commissioned in 1966, from then to 2010, 54 more nuclear reactors had opened, with total generation capacity of 48,847 MW. The ratio of nuclear power generation to total electricity production increased from 2% in 1973 to around 30% in March 2011. During the 1980s, Japan's nuclear power program was strongly opposed by environmental groups, particularly after the Three Mile Island accident in the United States. In the 2000s, Japan had a few of the modern Advanced Boiling Water Reactor, including some of the first new advanced Generation III reactors. At Rokkasho, Aomori a facility was built to enrich nuclear fuel, deal with nuclear waste, and recycle spent nuclear fuel.\n\nAfter the 2011 earthquake and tsunami some nuclear reactors were damaged, causing much uncertainty and fear about the release of radioactive material, as well as highlighting the ongoing concerns over seismic design standards (see Nuclear power in Japan §Seismicity). \nOn 5 May 2012 Japan shut down the last nuclear reactor, the first time there has been no nuclear power production since 1970.\nOn 16 June Prime Minister Yoshihiko Noda ordered the restart of Ōi nuclear plant's reactors number 3 and 4, saying that people's livelihood needs to be protected.\nŌi nuclear plant's reactor No. 3 was restarted on 2 July, and No. 4 began operation on 21 July. However, in September 2013 the Ōi nuclear plant was shut down in order to have extensive safety inspections performed. By late 2015, both of the Sendai Nuclear Power Plant's reactors had reopened and restarted producing nuclear energy. Other nuclear plants, such as the Takahama Nuclear Power Plant, have received permission to reopen, and other nuclear reactors are beginning the process of restarting.\n\nIn June 2015, the Japanese government released an energy proposal that includes the revival of nuclear power to account for Japan's energy needs. The proposal calls for an increase of about 20% in nuclear energy by 2030. This reverses a decision by the previous Democratic Party, the government will re-open nuclear plants, aiming for \"a realistic and balanced energy structure\".\n\nBecause domestic natural gas production is minimal, rising demand is met by greater imports. Japan's main LNG suppliers in 1987 were Indonesia (51.3%), Malaysia (20.4%), Brunei (17.8%), United Arab Emirates (7.3%), and the United States (3.2%).\n\nThe new Japanese LNG strategy published in May 2016 envisages the creation of a liquid market and an international LNG hub in Japan. This promises to radically change the traditional JCC (crude oil) based pricing system in Japan, but also potentially in the Pacific Basin as a whole. But the path to hub creation and hub pricing in the early 2020s envisaged by the Strategy will not be straightforward.\n\nThe country's main renewable energy source is hydroelectricity, with an installed capacity of about 27 GW and a production of 69.2 TWh of electricity in 2009.\nAs of September 2011, Japan had 1,198 small hydropower plants with a total capacity of 3,225 MW. The smaller plants accounted for 6.6 percent of Japan's total hydropower capacity. The remaining capacity was filled by large and medium hydropower stations, typically sited at large dams. Cost per kilowatt-hour for power from smaller plants was high at ¥15–100, hindering further development of the energy source.\n\nJapan was the world's second largest producer of photovoltaic electricity in the early 2000s, although solar was a very minor contribution to the total at that time. The country was overtaken by Germany in 2005, a year in which Japan had 38% of the world supply compared to Germany's 39%. \nSince then, Japan had been slow to increase solar capacity compared to other countries until 2012.\n\nOn 1 July 2012, after the nuclear disaster at Fukushima, new tariffs for renewable energy were introduced by the Japanese government. \nThe tariffs, set at ¥42 per kWh over the next 20 years to solar power producers, were among the highest in the world.\nWith the incentives in place, Japan added 1,718 MW of solar power in 2012. By the end of the year, Japan's total solar capacity was 7.4 GW.\nJapan has seen sustained growth of solar PV capacity after 2012, reaching a cumulative installed capacity of 34 GW by the end of 2015, generating 3.5% of the national electricity consumption in that year.\n\nJapan had 1,807 wind turbines with a total capacity of 2440 MW as of September 2011. Lack of locations with constant wind, environmental restrictions, and emphasis by power utilities on fossil and nuclear power hinders the employment of more wind power in the country. However, it has been estimated that Japan has the potential for 144 GW for onshore wind and 608 GW of offshore wind capacity.\n\nOf other renewable energy sources, Japan has partially exploited geothermal energy. The country had six geothermal power stations with a combined capacity of 133 megawatts in 1989. By 2011, the country had 18 geothermal plants. Japan has the third largest geothermal reserves in the world, and geothermal energy in particular is being heavily focused on as a source of power following the Fukushima disaster and subsequent shutdown of all nuclear reactors. The Ministry of Economy, Trade, and Industry is currently exploring over 40 locations to see if geothermal energy plants would be compatible.\n\nAs of September 2011, Japan had 190 generators attached to municipal waste units and 70 independent plants using biomass fuel to produce energy. In addition, 14 other generators were used to burn both coal and biomass fuel. In 2008, Japan produced 322 million tons of biomass fuel and converted 76% of it into energy.\n\nIn 2012, the government announced plans to build experimental tidal power and wave power plants in coastal areas. Construction on the projects, the locations for which have not been determined, would begin in 2013.\n\nIn 2014, Japan ranked fifth in the world by electricity production, after the United States, China, Russia, and India with 934 TWh produced during that year.\n\nIn terms of per capita electricity consumption, the average person in Japan consumed 8,459 kWh in 2004 compared to 14,240 kWh for the average American. In that respect it ranked 18th among the countries of the world. Its per capita electricity consumption increased by 21.8% between 1990 and 2004.\n\nJapan had 282 GW of total installed electricity generating capacity in 2010, the third largest in the world behind the United States and China. However, after the damage by the 2011 earthquake, capacity is estimated to be around 243 GW in mid-2011. It is one of the world's largest users of solar energy, in fourth place behind Germany, Italy, and China. With 53 active nuclear power generating reactor units in 2009, that year Japan ranked third in the world in that respect, after the United States (104 reactors) and France (59). Almost one quarter (24.93%) of its electricity production was from nuclear plants, compared to 76.18% for France and 19.66% for the United States. However, after the 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami and the subsequent Fukushima Daiichi nuclear disaster, all plants eventually shut down in May 2012 and Ōi Nuclear Power Plant was restarted and operational between June 2012 and September 2013. On 11 August 2015 and 1 November 2015, the two nuclear reactor of the Sendai Nuclear Power Plant were restarted respectively.\n\nSince the generation disruption caused by the Fukushima disaster, rapid steps have been made to liberalize the electricity supply market. One way this was done in Japan is through the feed-in-tariff scheme. This was announced in 2012 as a direct consequence of the Fukushima disaster. The feed-in-tariff scheme encourages utility operators and companies to purchase and invest in renewable energy. The Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry set prices for various renewable energy sources to encourage the production and consumption of renewable energy. In April 2016 domestic and small business customers became able to select from over 250 supplier companies competitively selling electricity. Also wholesale electricity trading on the Japan Electric Power Exchange has been encouraged.\n\nUnlike most other industrial countries, Japan doesn't have a single national grid but instead has separate eastern and western grids. The standard voltage at power outlets is 100 V, but the grids operate at different frequencies: 50 Hz in Eastern Japan and 60 Hz in Western Japan. The grids are connected together by 3 frequency converter stations (Higashi-Shimizu, Shin Shinano and Sakuma), but these can only handle 1 GW in total. A converter station also exists at Minami-Fukumitsu. The 2011 Tōhoku earthquake and tsunami resulted in 11 reactors being taken offline with a loss of 9.7GW. The 3 converter stations did not have the capacity to transfer enough power from Japan's western power grid to significantly help the eastern grid.\n\nThe two grids were originally developed by separate companies. Tokyo Electric Light Co was established in 1883 which also established electric power in Japan. In 1885 demand had grown enough that TELCO bought generation equipment from AEG of Germany. \nThe same happened in the western parts of Japan with General Electric being the supplier to Osaka Electric Lamp. GE's equipment used the US standard 60 Hz while AEG's equipment used the European standard of 50 Hz.\n\nIn Japan, the electricity market is divided up into 10 regulated companies:\n\n\nIn March 2016, METI set a target of 40,000 hydrogen fuel-cell vehicles on Japan's roads by 2020 and 160 fueling stations.\n\nIn 2014 Japan was the 6th largest producer of carbon emissions. In 2013 Japan ranked 28 in the list of countries by carbon dioxide emissions per capita.\n\nIn 2007, the BBC reported that Japan was having difficulty in meeting its 6% reduction target under the Kyoto Protocol partly because Japanese businesses were already very energy efficient. Despite this, in May 2007, the former Prime Minister Shinzō Abe said that world emissions should be reduced by 50% by 2050. He expected Japan to play a leading role in such an effort. \"We must create a new framework which moves beyond the Kyoto Protocol, in which the entire world will participate in emissions reduction,\" Abe said.\n\nHowever, since the events of the Tohoku earthquake, carbon emissions from energy production have increased to near record levels, with 1227Mt released from energy production as opposed to the Kyoto Protocol target of 1136Mt (8% reduction from 1235Mt), just a 0.6% decrease in energy production emissions. The increased use of gas and coal to make up for lost nuclear capacity increased production by over 3% despite an electrical demand drop of nearly 15%.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "85908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=85908", "title": "Erecura", "text": "Erecura\n\nErecura or Aerecura (also found as \"Herecura\" or \"Eracura\") was a goddess worshipped in ancient times, often thought to be Celtic in origin, mostly represented with the attributes of Proserpina and associated with the Roman underworld god Dis Pater, as on an altar from Sulzbach. She appears with Dis Pater in a statue found at Oberseebach, Switzerland, and in several magical texts from Austria, once in the company of Cerberus and once probably with Ogmios. A further inscription to her has been found near Stuttgart, Germany. Besides her chthonic symbols, she is often depicted with such attributes of fertility as the cornucopia and apple baskets. She is depicted in a seated posture, wearing a full robe and bearing trays or baskets of fruit, in depictions from Cannstatt and Sulzbach. Miranda Green calls Aericura a \"Gaulish Hecuba\", while Noémie Beck characterizes her as a \"land-goddess\" sharing both underworld and fertility aspects with Dis Pater.\n\nRepresentations of Erecura are most commonly found in the Danubian area of Southern Germany and Slovenia, but they also occur in Italy, Great Britain, and France. Her inscriptions are concentrated in Stuttgart and along the Rhine. Several monuments in honour of Erecura occur in cemeteries or other funereal contexts. Jona Lendering notes the similarity between her iconography and that of Nehalennia, who was worshipped in Germania Inferior, while Beck sees no significant difference between her attributes and those of the Matres and Matronae. Geographically, the areas in which Erecura and Dis Pater were worshipped appear to be in complementary distribution with those where the cult of Sucellus and Nantosuelta is attested, and Beck suggests that these cults were functionally similar although iconographically distinct.\n\nA male deity called Arecurius or Aericurus is named on an altar-stone in Northumberland, England, although Beck cautions that \"this inscription is quite uncertain, and it might be a misreading of Mercurio\".\n\nThe theonym is of unclear origin. It has been connected with Latin \"aes, aeris\" 'copper, bronze, money, wealth', \"era\" 'mistress' and the name of the Greek goddess Hera. Many different Latinised forms of this goddess’s name occur: \"Aeraecura\" at Perugia; \"Aerecura\" at Mainz, Xanten, Aquileia and Roşia Montană; \"Aericura\" at , \"Eracura\" in , \"Ercura\" at , \"Erecura\" at , Tongeren and Belley in Aube; \"Heracura\" at Stockstadt am Rhein, \"Herecura\" at , Freinsheim and Rottenburg am Neckar, where the form \"Herequra\" is also found. \n\nThe alternation between the initial H and A may be due to the letters' similar shape in the classical Latin capitals ordinarily used in epigraphic inscriptions in the Roman Empire, particularly since less literate members of the Roman Empire’s community sometimes misinterpreted the phonemic value of a given letter. A name of the form or appears to underlie the alternations \"Aeraecura\" ~ \"Aerecura\" ~ \"Aericura\" ~ \"Eracura\" ~ \"Ercura\" ~ \"Erecura\" ~ \"Heracura\" ~ \"Herecura\" ~ \"Herequra\". \n\nThough the goddess herself may be Celtic, it is open to question whether the name is of Celtic origin or even Indo-European. Lendering considers her cult to be of Illyrian origin, spreading from Aquileia and only reaching the Danubian and Rhenish border regions through the Roman troops deployed there. Beck considers the name to be of Germanic origin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "993662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=993662", "title": "European Gendarmerie Force", "text": "European Gendarmerie Force\n\nThe European Gendarmerie Force (EUROGENDFOR or EGF) is a European intervention force with militarised police functions and specialisation in crisis management.\n\nThe EGF was launched by an agreement in 2006 between five member states of the European Union (EU): France, Italy, the Netherlands, Portugal, and Spain. Romania joined in 2009; Poland in 2011. Its status is enshrined in the Treaty of Velsen of 18 October 2007. The headquarters are located in Vicenza, Italy.\n\nThe EGF is presently not established at the EU level (referred to as the Common Security and Defence Policy, CSDP); it is for instance not a project of the Permanent Structured Cooperation (PESCO) of the CSDP. The EGF may however contribute in the implementation of the CSDP, when made available as a \"multinational force\" in accordance with article 42.3 of the Treaty on European Union (TEU).\n\nThe French Defence Minister Michèle Alliot-Marie first proposed the force in September 2003. Alliot-Marie and the Italian Defense Minister Antonio Martino presented the idea at the Meeting of European Union Defense Ministers in October 2003. The implementation agreement was finally signed by defence ministers of the five participating countries on 17 September 2004 in Noordwijk, Netherlands. On 23 January 2006, the EGF was officially inaugurated during a military ceremony in the Gen. Chinotto barracks in Vicenza.\n\nThe EGF was declared fully operational on 20 July 2006, following the High Level Interministerial meeting in Madrid, Spain, and its second successful Command Post exercise (CPX), which took place between 19–28 April 2006. The first CPX was held at the National Gendarmerie Training Center in Saint Astier, France in June 2005.\n\nAfter Romania's accession to the European Union, the Romanian Gendarmerie sought permanent observer status with the European Gendarmerie Force, as a first step towards full membership. On March 3, 2009, the Romanian Gendarmerie became a full member of the European Gendarmerie Force.\n\nThe Polish Military Gendarmerie was originally a partner force and, on 10 October 2006, Poland indicated it would like to join the EGF. In December 2011, Poland applied for full membership in EGF, which was granted in 2011.\n\n\n\nThe EGF is based in Vicenza, in northeastern Italy, and has a core of 800 to 900 members ready to deploy within 30 days.\n\nAn additional 2,300 reinforcements are available on standby.\n\nThe treaty allows for any EU member state to become a European Gendarmerie Force member state, subject to the approval of existing European Gendarmerie Force members. The member forces are:\nGermany does not take part, as its constitution does not permit the use of military forces for police services. In 2004, Peter Struck, Minister of Defense at the time, clarified that the legal foundation for militarised police forces is different from the expectations underlying the EGF. The paramilitary Bereitschaftspolizei units of the Länder states have no standing patrol order like the German Federal Police. Germany did not sign the Treaty of Velsen on the EGF or any subsequent accord. Instead, there is a tight integration of police forces based on the Prüm Treaty. Originally the Prüm Treaty regulated access to police databases of neighboring countries but it was used multiple times as the legal foundation to exchange riot police equipment and personnel with the participating countries (Germany, Spain, France, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Austria, and Belgium). In 2008 the Prüm Treaty was naturalised as EU law, allowing countries access to police forces regulated under EU law (based on the Schengen Agreement). The European Police Forces Training of 2009 (EUPFT 2009) was run in Vicenza (home of EGF headquarters) and the EUPFT 2010 on anti-riot tactics was run in Lehnin in Germany.\n\n\n\nThe EGF is presently not established at the EU level (referred to as the Common Security and Defence Policy, CSDP); it is for instance not a project of the Permanent Structured Cooperation (PESCO) of the CSDP. The EGF may however contribute in the implementation of the CSDP, when made available as a \"multinational force\" in accordance with article 42.3 of the Treaty on European Union (TEU).\n\n"}
{"id": "21194118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21194118", "title": "European Regulators' Group for Electricity and Gas", "text": "European Regulators' Group for Electricity and Gas\n\nThe European Regulators' Group for Electricity and Gas (ERGEG) is an advisory group to the European Commission on internal energy market issues in Europe. ERGEG was set up by the European Commission to assist the Commission in consolidating a single EU market for electricity and gas. ERGEG’s members are the heads of the national energy regulatory authorities in the EU’s 28 Member States.\n\nERGEG was set up by the European Commission (Decision of 11 November 2003 2003/796/EC) as its advisory body on internal energy market issues. It is made up of the national energy regulatory authorities of the EU Member States. Its purpose is to facilitate a consistent application, in all Member States, of the provisions set out in Internal Market in Electricity Directive|Directive 2003/54/EC, Directive 2003/55/EC and Regulation (EC) No 1228/2003, as well as of possible future EU legislation in the field of electricity and gas”.\nWith the Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators (ACER) fully operational (since March 2011), ERGEG was dissolved by the European Commission (Commission Decision of 16 May 2011 repealing Decision 2003/796/EC) with effect from 1 July 2011. All past works relating to ERGEG activity (documents, reports, public consultations etc.) can be found on this website of the European Energy Regulators.\n\nThe role and aim of the ERGEG was to advise and assist the European Commission in ensuring the creation and smooth functioning of the internal energy market in Europe. \nERGEG facilitates consultation, coordination and cooperation of national energy regulators contributing to a consistent application, in all Member States, of EU energy legislation.\nIn advising the European Commission ERGEG worked transparently and was committed to best regulatory practice in terms of conducting its public consultations and engaging with stakeholders.\n\nSince March 2011, a new organisation, the Agency for the Cooperation of Energy Regulators (ACER) became fully operational. ACER was established following the entry into force of third energy liberalisation legislative package (3rd Package) on 3 September 2009, has been assigned a series of tasks and responsibilities in relation to Europe’s electricity and gas markets. ACER is a European Community body with legal personality, funded by the EU budget, with a staff of around 50 persons. With ACER fully operational, ERGEG was formally dissolved by the European Commission, with effect from 1 July 2011.\n\nSome examples of what ERGEG, the energy regulators’ advisory group to the European Commission, did in practice:\n\nOne of ERGEG’s flagship projects was the Regional Initiatives, which it launched with the European Commission’s backing in Spring 2006, in an effort to speed up the integration of Europe’s national energy markets. The ERGEG Regional Initiatives establish 7 electricity and 3 regional gas markets in Europe as an intermediate step to the creation of a single, competitive EU market in electricity and gas. Since 2011, ACER takes over responsibility for the Regional Initiatives.\nERGEG carried out extensive monitoring of compliance with rules (e.g. transparency, access, and implementation of consumer rights) and advised the European Commission accordingly. To assist in the practical implementation of the principles set out in the current energy laws, ERGEG developed Guidelines of Good Practice (GGPs) in certain areas. ERGEG GGPs are voluntary guidelines (i.e. not legally enforceable) which are developed in consultation with stakeholders. \nERGEG advised and assisted the European Commission in the preparation of draft implementing measures in the field of electricity and gas. For example, ERGEG provided significant input to the European Commission in the preparation of its third energy liberalisation legislative package proposals (September 2007).\n\nERGEG members were the national energy regulatory authorities of the 28 EU Member States. The European Commission is represented at a high level. The energy regulators of the countries who are candidates for accession to the EU and the countries of the European Economic Area (EEA) participated in ERGEG meetings as Observers.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2614674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2614674", "title": "Global Climate and Energy Project", "text": "Global Climate and Energy Project\n\nThe Global Climate and Energy Project (GCEP) at Stanford University, \"seeks new solutions to one of the grand challenges of this century: supplying energy to meet the changing needs of a growing world population in a way that protects the environment.\"\n\nBeginning in December 2002, GCEP is a 10-year, $225m research project aimed at developing new energy technologies. These new energy technologies include areas of interest such as renewable energy, CO capture and storage, hydrogen storage and electrocatalysis. It has the support of four major companies - ExxonMobil, General Electric, Schlumberger, and Toyota. Under the heading \"Grand Challenge\", it identifies a global warming-related need to reduce greenhouse gas emissions through future energy development.\n\n"}
{"id": "16087261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16087261", "title": "Hydrological code", "text": "Hydrological code\n\nA hydrological code or hydrologic unit code is a sequence of numbers or letters that identify a hydrological feature like a river, river reach, lake, or area like a drainage basin (also called watershed (in North America)) or catchment.\n\nOne system, developed by Strahler, known as the Strahler stream order, ranks streams based on a hierarchy of tributaries. Each segment of a stream or river within a river network is treated as a node in a tree, with the next segment downstream as its parent. When two first-order streams come together, they form a second-order stream. When two second-order streams come together, they form a third-order stream, and so on.\n\nAnother example is the system of assigning IDs to watersheds devised by , known as the Pfafstetter Coding System or the Pfafstetter System. Drainage areas are delineated in a hierarchical fashion, with \"level 1\" watersheds at continental scales, subdivided into smaller level 2 watersheds, which are divided into level 3 watersheds, and so on. Each watershed is assigned a unique number, called a Pfafsetter Code, based on its location within the overall drainage system.\n\nA comprehensive coding system is in use in Europe. This system codes from the ocean to the so-called primary catchment. The system determines a set of oceans or endorheic systems identified by a letter. These systems are subdivided into a maximum of 9 seas. The seas are numbered 1 to 9. Seas lying far from the ocean, for example the Black Sea receive a higher number. The seas are delimited using the so-called definitions made by the International Hydrographic Organization in 1953. The coasts of these seas are defined clockwise from north west to south east from the strait where the sea connects to the ocean or the other seas.\n\nSubsequently every watershed along this coast is assigned a number using the Pfafstetter Coding System. This implies that the four largest watersheds are selected and receive numbers 2,4,6, or 8. The watersheds in between the large systems receive numbers 3, 5, and 7. Numbers 1 and 9 are used for the small watersheds on the edges of the strait. The smaller systems can subsequently be numbered recursively or kept together for grouping purpose.\nLandmasses (Continent and Islands) are also numbered in a logical manner, along a clock-wise oriented sea. For Europe containing many inner seas this feature helps to read the relative location of a hydrological object in the sea.\n\nThe United States Geological Survey created a hierarchical system of hydrologic units originally called regions, sub-regions, accounting units, and cataloging units. Each unit was assigned a unique Hydrologic Unit Code (HUC). As first implemented the system had 21 regions, 221 subregions, 378 accounting units, and 2,264 cataloging units. Over time the system was changed and expanded. As of 2010 there are six levels in the hierarchy, represented by hydrologic unit codes from 2 to 12 digits long, called regions, subregions, basins, subbasins, watersheds, and subwatersheds. The table below describes the system's hydrologic unit levels and their characteristics, along with example names and codes.\n\nThe original delineation of units, down to subbasins (cataloging units), was done using 1:250,000 scale maps and data. The newer delineation work on watersheds and subwatersheds was done using 1:24,000 scale maps and data. As a result, the subbasin boundaries were changed and adjusted in order to conform to the higher resolution watersheds within them. Changes to subbasin boundaries resulted in changes in area sizes. Therefore, older data using \"cataloging units\" may differ from newer, higher resolution data using \"subbasins\".\nThe regions (1st level hydrologic units) are geographic areas that contain either the drainage area of a major river, such as the Missouri region, or the combined drainage areas of a series of rivers, such as the Texas–Gulf region. Each subregion includes the area drained by a river system, a reach of a river and its tributaries in that reach, a closed basin or basins, or a group of streams forming a coastal drainage area. Regions receive a two-digit code. The following levels are designated by the addition of another two digits.\n\nThe hierarchy was designed and the units subdivided so that almost all the subbasins (formerly called cataloging units) are larger than . Larger closed basins were subdivided until their subunits were less than 700 square miles. The 10-digit watersheds were delineated to be between 40,000 and 250,000 acres in size, and the 12-digit subwatersheds between 10,000 and 40,000 acres. In addition to the hydrologic unit codes, each hydrologic unit was assigned a name corresponding to the unit's principal hydrologic feature or to a cultural or political feature within the unit.\nThe boundaries of the hydrologic units usually correspond to drainage basins with some exceptions; for example, subregion 1711, called \"Puget Sound\", includes all U.S. drainage into not only Puget Sound but also the Strait of Georgia, Strait of Juan de Fuca, and the Fraser River. Also, region and subregion boundaries end at the U.S. international boundary.\n\nIn general, hydrologic units were delineated such that all surface drainage within each unit converges at a single outlet point—a type of hydrologic unit called a \"classic hydrological unit\". It was not always possible to delineated units in this way while adhering to the size and subdivision standards of the system. There are several \"non-classic\" types of drainage areas, each requiring special criteria for delineation and subdivision.\n\n\"Remnant areas\" occur along coasts where individual streams are too small for the given subdivision type. Such remnants were combined into a single unit if they were adjacent and could be combined. These \"composite\" units are called \"frontal units\". They are non-classic because they have more than one outlet.\n\nFor example, the coastal area along Puget Sound between Seattle and Mukilteo, is delineated at the finest \"subwatershed\" level as \"Shell Creek-Frontal Puget Sound\", HUC 171100190203. This hydrologic unit includes numerous small streams that drain directly to Puget Sound, including Pipers Creek and Boeing Creek. As a consequence of the smallest \"subwatershed\" being non-classic, every higher level unit containing it are also non-classic \"frontal\" units—\"Lunds Gulch-Frontal Puget Sound\" (HUC 17110019), \"Puget Sound\" (HUC 171100 and 1711), and \"Pacific Northwest Region\" (HUC 17).\n\n\"Noncontributing areas\" are drainage areas within a hydrologic unit that do not drain to the unit's outlet. They can be caused by such things as potholes and kettles, closed basins, playas, and cirques. If a noncontributing area is large enough, it was designated as a hydrologic unit of its own. The largest such example is the Great Basin, designated a hydrologic unit the Region level. When a noncontributing area was not large enough to be designated a hydrologic unit, it was merged into the surrounding or bordering larger hydrologic unit. Special decisions were required for \"semiconfined basins\" that contribute flow to another area in wet years but become noncontributing in dry years—Goose Lake, for example. The USGS instructed the people doing the delineation work to take extra care in the case of semiconfined basins and to seek assistance from others, but to ultimately make their own decision on whether the semiconfined basin should be designated a noncontributing area or not. Another special case occurs when noncontributing areas very small and dispersed, or scattered throughout a drainage area. These were considered part of the encompassing hydrologic unit. In short, noncontributing areas cannot be subject to strict criteria for delineating, and methods vary from state to state, landform type to type, and special cases. The effect of noncontributing areas on specific hydrologic units is explained in metadata as best it can.\n\nThe Goose Lake example illustrates how USGS hydrologic units do not always conform strictly to drainage basins. Despite being part of the Upper Sacramento River basin (or accounting unit), HUC 180200, and the Sacramento River subregion, HUC 1802, the Goose Lake subbasin (or cataloging unit), HUC 18020001, was defined as a closed basin during the watershed and subwatershed delineation process. Therefore, the area of the Sacramento River subregion and the Upper Sacramento River basin, as published by the USGS ( and respectively), are too large by at least the size of the Goose Lake subbasin/cataloging unit, .\n\nOther non-classic drainage issues that have an effect on hydrologic unit delineation and subdivision include reservoirs, diverted waters ranging from small irrigation ditches to interbasin transfers, islands, and coastal areas with large tidal ranges. The 5th and 6th level hydrologic units, called \"watersheds\" and \"subwatersheds\", were assigned one of seven attribute codes to indicate drainage type: standard (classic, one outlet), closed basin (no outlet), frontal (multiple outlets), water (predominately water with adjacent land areas), island (one or more islands and adjacent water), and unclassified (an area that cannot be defined or does not fit one of the other types).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22277470", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22277470", "title": "Index of environmental articles", "text": "Index of environmental articles\n\nThe natural environment, commonly referred to simply as the environment, includes all living and non-living things occurring naturally on Earth.\n\nThe natural environment includes complete ecological units that function as natural systems without massive human intervention, including all vegetation, animals, microorganisms, soil, rocks, atmosphere and natural phenomena that occur within their boundaries. Also part of the natural environment is universal natural resources and physical phenomena that lack clear-cut boundaries, such as air, water, and climate.\n\n"}
{"id": "2890230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2890230", "title": "Industrial mineral", "text": "Industrial mineral\n\nIndustrial resources (minerals) are geological materials which are mined for their commercial value, which are not fuel (fuel minerals or mineral fuels) and are not sources of metals (metallic minerals) but are used in the industries based on their physical and/or chemical properties.\nThey are used in their natural state or after beneficiation either as raw materials or as additives in a wide range of applications.\n\nTypical examples of industrial rocks and minerals are limestone, clays, sand, gravel, diatomite, kaolin, bentonite, silica, barite, gypsum, and talc.\nSome examples of applications for industrial minerals are construction, ceramics, paints, electronics, filtration, plastics, glass, detergents and paper.\n\nIn some cases, even organic materials (peat) and industrial products or by-products (cement, slag, silica fume) are categorized under industrial minerals, as well as metallic compounds mainly utilized in non-metallic form (as an example most of the titanium is utilized as an oxide TiO rather than Ti metal). \n\nIn some cases, organic substances (such as peat) can be loosely categorized as industrial resources/minerals. This case, however, violates the technical definition of a \"mineral.\" A substance must be a mineral before it may be categorized as an industrial mineral. Peat is a geologic substance mined for its economic value but that does not mandate that it be referred to as a mineral or as an industrial mineral.\n\nThe evaluation of raw materials to determine their suitability for use as industrial minerals requires technical test-work, mineral processing trials and end-product evaluation; free to download evaluation manuals are available for the following industrial minerals: limestone, flake graphite, diatomite, kaolin, bentonite and construction materials. These are available from the British Geological Survey external link 'Industrial Minerals in BGS' with regular industry news and reports published in Industrial Minerals magazine.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37018980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37018980", "title": "Inland salt marsh", "text": "Inland salt marsh\n\nAn inland salt marsh is a saltwater marsh located away from the coast which is formed and maintained in areas when evapotranspiration exceeds precipitation and/or when sodium and chloride laden groundwater is released from natural brine aquifers.\n"}
{"id": "27308924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27308924", "title": "Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation", "text": "Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation\n\nThe Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation (IHME) is a research institute working in the area of global health statistics and impact evaluation at the University of Washington in Seattle. The Institute is headed by Dr. Christopher J.L. Murray, a physician and health economist, and professor at the University of Washington Department of Global Health, which is part of the School of Medicine. IHME's goal, as stated on the Institute's website, is \"to identify the best strategies to build a healthier world. By measuring health, tracking program performance, finding ways to maximize health system impact, and developing innovative measurement systems, IHME provides a foundation for informed decision-making that ultimately will lead to better health globally\" IHME (2011). IHME conducts research and trains scientists, policymakers, and the public in health metrics concepts, methods, and tools. Its mission includes judging the effectiveness and efficacy of health initiatives and national health systems. IHME's work seeks to be complementary to the United Nations' work in the World Health Organization in that it shares many tasks but is independent from member countries.\n\nIHME gathers health-related data from all available sources. It develops innovative analytical tools to track trends in mortality, diseases, and risk factors, and capsulizes many of its research findings in data visualizations. It evaluates interventions such as vaccines, malaria control policies, cancer screenings, and birth care. To enable researchers to replicate IHME's work and to foster new research, IHME created the Global Health Data Exchange (GHDx) where methods and results are cataloged and freely accessible. IHME is also committed to expanding the field of health metrics by training students at the post-baccalaureate and post-graduate levels.\n\nIHME was launched in June 2007 based on a core grant of $105 million primarily funded by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation. Among its earliest projects was to produce new estimates of mortality rates, which were published in \"The Lancet\" in September 2007. The Institute updated these in 2010\nand again in 2014. Maternal, child, and adult mortality estimates have been published, as well.\nFounding board members included Chair Julio Frenk, Dean of the Harvard School of Public Health; Harvey Fineberg, President of the Institute of Medicine; Gro Harlem Brundtland, former Prime Minister of Norway; Tedros Adhanom Ghebreyesus, the Minister of Health for Ethiopia; K. Srinath Reddy, President of the Public Health Foundation of India; Tomris Turmen, President of the International Children's Center and Head of the Department of Pediatrics/Newborn Medicine at the University of Ankara Medical School in Ankara, Turkey; Lincoln Chen, President of the China Medical Board; Jane Halton, who has served as Secretary of the Department of Health and Ageing in Australia, as well as the Department of Finance; and David Roux, Co-Chief Executive of Silver Lake Partners.\n\nCurrent board members are Frenk; Fineberg; Chen; Halton; and Roux, in addition to Stephen J. Cucchiaro, Chief Investment Officer of Windhaven Investment Management; Sally Davies, Chief Medical Officer (CMO) for England; and John W. Stanton, managing director of Trilogy Partnership.\n\nIn 2011, IHME co-sponsored the first Global Health Metrics & Evaluation conference in Seattle with \"The Lancet\", London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine, Harvard School of Public Health, and University of Queensland School of Population Health.\n\nIn 2017, the Gates Foundation provided IHME with another $279 million grant.\n\nIHME also has launched policy reports on a wide range of topics, including a June 2010 report on child and maternal mortality. The findings were updated in 2014. In 2009, IHME launched its series of Financing Global Health policy reports. The initial report led to meetings with staff from the US House Foreign Affairs Committee and with a task force appointed by US President Barack Obama to guide the funding of his new Global Health Initiative. Annual updates have been published since then.\n\nRecent publications have included estimations of causes of death worldwide, the incidence of HIV, TB, and malaria, as well as obesity, cigarette smoking, heart disease, and small area estimation of diabetes rates in the United States. IHME has also worked with other organizations on projects. For example, IHME researchers helped create the 2010 WHO World Malaria Report, generating all the estimates for insecticide-treated nets. IHME has also collaborated on country-level research projects, including a partnership with the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia to help create a health surveillance system to track disease trends and inform policy. \nThere is a list of publications at IHME's website.\n\nIn the Global Burden of Diseases, Injuries, and Risk Factors (GBD) Study 2010, a worldwide consortium of 500 researchers, coordinated by IHME measured the impact of more than 290 health conditions and 67 health risk factors worldwide. The GBD enterprise produced estimates in 21 regions around the world for disability-adjusted life years by age and sex for the past two decades. Part of this research has involved conducting in-person surveys in several countries and gathering health information through a website survey. The team created a cause of death database that includes 60 years of data, or almost 800 million deaths. To illustrate the findings, IHME released a suite of interactive data visualizations, which are available to the public.\n\nThe aim is to allow policymakers and other decision-makers to \"compare the effects of different diseases – such as cancer versus depression – that kill people prematurely and cause ill health,\" to show disease trends over time, and to inform policy, IHME states on its website.\n\nIt has been labeled \"the most comprehensive review of the state of humanity's health ever undertaken.\"\n\nThe UK and China are among the countries working with IHME to generate subnational burden of disease estimates at the county and province levels.\n\nIn January 2014, IHME began releasing updates to the work, called the Global Burden of Diseases, Injuries, and Risk Factors (GBD) Study 2013. The work generated over 1 billion estimates of health outcomes. GBD estimates are now being updated annually.\n\nSome of the findings have been controversial. In 2012, IHME researchers estimated 1.2 million people died from malaria in 2010, double the WHO's estimate.\n\nThe Disease Control Priorities Network project generates cost-effectiveness estimates for a range of health interventions. A team of demographers, statisticians, economists, and other experts are studying how to improve the allocation of resources among interventions, technologies, hospitals, and other service delivery platforms. They are working in multiple countries, including the US, India, and South Africa.\nTheir cost-effectiveness work has revealed some hidden connections. For example, a 2010 report showed improving girls' education in poor countries is the most effective way to reduce child mortality, which was a surprise for some people.\n\nAn effort launched in 2011 called Access, Bottlenecks, Costs, and Equity (ABCE) involves collecting evidence and analyzing data to improve the cost-effectiveness and equity of health systems in Colombia, Ghana, India, Kenya, Lebanon, Uganda, and Zambia. The project examines four components that affect health care delivery: access (to health facilities), bottlenecks (limitations on the supply side), costs, and equity (across populations). The work includes in-depth facility surveys and inventories across a range of service delivery platforms; additional data is collected in countries with high HIV/AIDS burdens through exit interviews and chart extraction.\n\nA 2013 report concluded that neonatal and maternal mortality in Ghana could be best improved not with sophisticated maternity care but with better transportation infrastructure.\n\nThe Population Health Metrics Research Consortium created new methods for tracking health intervention coverage in low-resource settings. The methods have been used to measure mortality, causes of death, and incidence of major illnesses where data are incomplete. Researchers collected data in India, Mexico, the Philippines, and Tanzania.\n\nIHME's work on estimating mortality has been at times controversial. In 2009, IHME published a study on maternal mortality which some advocacy groups tried to suppress – worried that results showing a decline in mortality would make it harder to fund-raise. The WHO also initially disagreed with the new results, but later revised their estimates in agreement with those of IHME.\n\nThe Malaria Control Policy Assessment project evaluates the effectiveness of malaria-control interventions in Uganda and Zambia by analyzing their effect on child mortality and producing estimates at the national and local levels.\n\nIHME conducts US research, including estimates of mortality, life expectancy, risk factors, health disparities, and disease prevalence. IHME has compiled national and local health trends and integrated multiple data sources to monitor disparities in chronic diseases.\n\nA 2013 report, the State of US Health, looked at trends in premature deaths due to injury or disease, and demonstrated the major health threat stemming from behavioral risk factors such as poor diet and sedentary lifestyles. It concluded that dietary factors cause more deaths each year than cancer or smoking. The results included life expectancy trends broken down by state and county.\n\nFirst Lady Michelle Obama cited the research in her campaign to improve Americans' diets and increase their level of physical activity.\n\nA paper published in the journal Population Health Metrics in June 2011 showed that life expectancy was rising in some poorer US counties – especially in the South – a surprising result which was widely discussed.\n\nOther research projects include the Salud Mesoamérica 2015 Initiative, which focuses on inequalities in health outcomes and access in southern Mexico and Central America; Gavi Full Country Evaluations, which evaluates immunization programs in Bangladesh, India, Mozambique, Uganda and Zambia; and HealthRise, a partnership with Medtronic Philanthropy to evaluate programs targeting diabetes and heart disease, and sponsor small grants to make improvements.\n\nIn 2014, IHME announced the establishment of the University of Washington Center for Demography and Economics of Aging, funded by the National Institute on Aging (NIA). It is one of 14 NIA Demography Centers at leading universities and policy organizations around the United States.\n\nIn March 2011, IHME launched the Global Health Data Exchange (or GHDx), which indexes and hosts information about microdata, aggregated data, and research results with a focus on health-related and demographic datasets. At launch, the site listed about 1,000 datasets; as of 2015, there are more than 30,000. As part of a partnership with the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), GHDx includes 35 years of CDC data on child and maternal health. GHDx uses the Drupal 7 open source content management system and Apache SOLR for search. The site includes visualization and GIS tools, and has been noted by the health and global health communities.\n\nIHME offers two types of global health fellowships, plus master's degrees and PhD programs.\n\nIHME receives core grant funding from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation and the state of Washington. The US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC); Inter-American Development Bank; Gavi, the Vaccine Alliance; the National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute; Kingdom of Saudi Arabia Ministry of Health; Medtronic Philanthropy; and the National Institute on Aging have also contributed funding through project grants and contracts.\n\nInitially, some within the World Health Organization had criticized IHME for trying to do the work that WHO already does. There had also been tension between UNICEF and IHME because a report from the latter showed \"lackluster progress\" on child death rates.\n\nThe 2010 Global Burden of Disease report was criticized for its lack of transparency of methods and data as well as its use of complex statistical methods to fill in data gaps when reliable statistics were unavailable. Thomas Bollyky, a senior fellow at the Council on Foreign Relations, called for more transparency. The report was also criticized for its use of verbal autopsies because many diseases have similar symptoms, leading to potential mistakes.\n\nIgor Rudan and Kit Yee Chan argue that the emergence of IHME introduced competition to the field of global health metrics, which was previously a field where WHO maintained a monopoly: \"The GBD initiative has emerged as a well-organised and rapidly growing collaboration that is now seriously challenging WHO's role in generating global health estimates\".\n\nRudan and Chan also note that IHME \"struggled to generate support, legitimacy, and acceptable for their findings\" after publishing the 2010 Global Burden of Disease Study, due to concerns of lack of transparency, as well as the existence of parallel estimates of disease burden from WHO.\n\nThe World Health Organization did not acknowledge the GBD 2010 estimates.\n\nThe Global Burden of Disease Study (GBD) 2013 expanded collaboration and increased transparency but \"[fell] short of allowing full independent replication of all results\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1117290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1117290", "title": "Ionic liquid", "text": "Ionic liquid\n\nAn ionic liquid (IL) is a salt in the liquid state. In some contexts, the term has been restricted to salts whose melting point is below some arbitrary temperature, such as . While ordinary liquids such as water and gasoline are predominantly made of electrically neutral molecules, ionic liquids are largely made of ions and short-lived ion pairs. These substances are variously called liquid electrolytes, ionic melts, ionic fluids, fused salts, liquid salts, or ionic glasses. \n\nIonic liquids are described as having many potential applications. They are powerful solvents and electrically conducting fluids (electrolytes). Salts that are liquid at near-ambient temperature are important for electric battery applications, and have been considered as sealants due to their very low vapor pressure.\n\nAny salt that melts without decomposing or vaporizing usually yields an ionic liquid. Sodium chloride (NaCl), for example, melts at into a liquid that consists largely of sodium cations () and chloride anions (). Conversely, when an ionic liquid is cooled, it often forms an ionic solid—which may be either crystalline or glassy.\n\nThe ionic bond is usually stronger than the Van der Waals forces between the molecules of ordinary liquids. For that reason, common salts tend to melt at higher temperatures than other solid molecules. Some salts are liquid at or below room temperature. Examples include compounds based on the 1-Ethyl-3-methylimidazolium (EMIM) cation and include: EMIM:Cl, EMIM dicyanamide, ()()·, that melts at ; and 1-butyl-3,5-dimethylpyridinium bromide which becomes a glass below .\n\nLow-temperature ionic liquids can be compared to ionic solutions, liquids that contain both ions and neutral molecules, and in particular to the so-called deep eutectic solvents, mixtures of ionic and non-ionic solid substances which have much lower melting points than the pure compounds. Certain mixtures of nitrate salts can have melting points below 100 °C.\n\nThe term \"ionic liquid\" in the general sense was used as early as 1943.\n\nThe discovery date of the \"first\" ionic liquid is disputed, along with the identity of its discoverer. Ethanolammonium nitrate (m.p. 52–55 °C) was reported in 1888 by S. Gabriel and J. Weiner. One of the earliest truly room temperature ionic liquids was ethylammonium nitrate ()· (m.p. 12 °C), reported in 1914 by Paul Walden. In the 1970s and 1980s, ionic liquids based on alkyl-substituted imidazolium and pyridinium cations, with halide or tetrahalogenoaluminate anions, were developed as potential electrolytes in batteries.\n\nFor the imidazolium halogenoaluminate salts, their physical properties—such as viscosity, melting point, and acidity—could be adjusted by changing the alkyl substituents and the imidazolium/pyridinium and halide/halogenoaluminate ratios. Two major drawbacks for some applications were moisture sensitivity and acidity or basicity. In 1992, Wilkes and Zawarotko obtained ionic liquids with 'neutral' weakly coordinating anions such as hexafluorophosphate () and tetrafluoroborate (), allowing a much wider range of applications.\n\nAlthough many classical IL's are hexafluorophosphate and tetrafluoroborate salts, bistriflimide are also popular.\n\nIonic liquids are often moderate to poor conductors of electricity, non-ionizing (e.g., non-polar), highly viscous and frequently exhibit low vapor pressure. Their other properties are diverse: many have low combustibility, are thermally stable, with wide liquid regions, and favorable solvating properties for a range of polar and non-polar compounds. Many classes of chemical reactions, such as Diels-Alder reactions and Friedel-Crafts reactions, can be performed using ionic liquids as solvents. IL's can serve as solvents for biocatalysis. The miscibility of ionic liquids with water or organic solvents varies with side chain lengths on the cation and with choice of anion. They can be functionalized to act as acids, bases, or ligands, and are precursors salts in the preparation of stable carbenes. They have recently been found to hydrolyse, affording acidic or basic media in the aqueous milieu. Because of their distinctive properties, ionic liquids are attracting increasing attention in many fields, including organic chemistry, electrochemistry, catalysis, physical chemistry, and engineering; see for instance magnetic ionic liquid.\n\nDespite their extremely low vapor pressures (≈10 Pa at 25˚C), some ionic liquids can be distilled under vacuum conditions at temperatures near 300 °C. In the original work by Martyn Earle, et al., the authors wrongly concluded that the vapor was made up of individual, separated ions, but was later proven that the vapors formed consisted of ion-pairs. Some ionic liquids (such as 1-butyl-3-methylimidazolium nitrate) generate flammable gases on thermal decomposition. Thermal stability and melting point depend on the liquid's components. The thermal stability of a task-specific ionic liquid, protonated betaine bis(trifluoromethanesulfonyl)imide is of about and N-Butyl-N-Methyl pyrrolidinium bis(trifluoromethanesulfonyl)imide was thermally stable up to 640 K. The upper limits of thermal stability of ionic liquids reported in the literature are usually based upon fast (about 10 K/min) TGA scans, and they do not imply long-term (several hours) thermal stability of ionic liquids, which is limited to less than 500 K for most ionic liquids.\n\nThe solubility of different species in imidazolium ionic liquids depends mainly on polarity and hydrogen bonding ability. Saturated aliphatic compounds are generally only sparingly soluble in ionic liquids, whereas olefins show somewhat greater solubility, and aldehydes can be completely miscible. This can be exploited in biphasic catalysis, such as hydrogenation and hydrocarbonylation processes, allowing for relatively easy separation of products and/or unreacted substrate(s). Gas solubility follows the same trend, with carbon dioxide gas showing exceptional solubility in many ionic liquids. Carbon monoxide is less soluble in ionic liquids than in many popular organic solvents, and hydrogen is only slightly soluble (similar to the solubility in water) and may vary relatively little between the more common ionic liquids. Different analytical techniques have yielded somewhat different absolute solubility values.\n\nRoom temperature ionic liquids (RTILs) consist of bulky and asymmetric organic cations such as 1-alkyl-3-methylimidazolium, 1-alkylpyridinium, \"N\"-methyl-\"N\"-alkylpyrrolidinium and ammonium ions. Phosphonium cations are less common, but offer some advantageous properties. A wide range of anions are employed, ranging from simple halides, which generally suffer high melting points, to inorganic anions such as tetrafluoroborate and hexafluorophosphate, and to large organic anions like bistriflimide, triflate or tosylate. There are also many potential uses of ionic liquids with simple non-halogenated organic anions such as formate, alkylsulfate, alkylphosphate or glycolate. The melting point of 1-butyl-3-methylimidazolium tetrafluoroborate is about and it is a colorless liquid with high viscosity at room temperature. If a highly asymmetric cation is combined with a highly asymmetric anion, formed ionic liquid may not freeze down to very low temperatures (down to −150 °C) and the glass transition temperature was detected below −100 °C in the case of ionic liquids with N-methyl-N-alkylpyrrolidinium cations and fluorosulfonyl-trifluoromethanesulfonylimide (FTFSI). Water is a common impurity in ionic liquids as it can be absorbed from the atmosphere and influences the transport properties of RTILs, even at relatively low concentrations.\n\nIn many synthetic processes using transition metal catalysts, metal nanoparticles play an important role as the actual catalyst or as a catalyst reservoir. ILs are an appealing medium for the formation and stabilization of catalytically active transition metal nanoparticles. More importantly, ILs can be made that incorporate coordinating groups, for example, with nitrile groups on either the cation or anion (CN-IL). In various C-C coupling reactions catalyzed by a palladium catalyst, it has been found that palladium nanoparticles are better stabilized in CN-IL compared to non-functionalized ionic liquids; thus enhanced catalytic activity and recyclability are realized.\n\nLow temperature ionic liquids (below 130 K) have been proposed as the fluid base for an extremely large diameter spinning liquid mirror telescope to be based on the Earth's moon. Low temperature is advantageous in imaging long wave infrared light which is the form of light (extremely red-shifted) that arrives from the most distant parts of the visible universe. Such a liquid base would be covered by a thin metallic film that forms the reflective surface. Low volatility is important in lunar vacuum conditions to prevent evaporation.\n\nPolymerized ionic liquids, poly(ionic liquid)s or polymeric ionic liquids, all abbreviated as PIL is the polymeric form of ionic liquids. They have half of the ionicity of ionic liquids since one ion is fixed as the polymer moiety to form a polymeric chain. PILs have a similar range of applications, comparable with those of ionic liquids but the polymer architecture provides a better chance for controlling the ionic conductivity. They have extended the applications of ionic liquids for designing smart materials or solid electrolytes. \n\nMagnetic ionic liquids can be synthesized by incorporating paramagnetic elements into ionic liquid molecules. One example is 1-butyl-3-methylimidazolium tetrachloroferrate.\n\nA liquid tetraalkylphosphonium iodide is a solvent for tributyltin iodide, which functions as a catalyst to rearrange the monoepoxide of butadiene. This process was commercialized as a route to 2,5-dihydrofuran, but later discontinued\n\nILs have been considered for a variety of industrial applications. Their properties of low vapor pressure, thermal stability, and solvation for a wide variety of compounds and gases make them attractive in gas storage and handling applications. Air Products uses ILs instead of pressurized cylinders as a transport medium for reactive gases such as trifluoroborane, phosphine and arsine. The gases are dissolved in the liquids at or below atmospheric pressure and are easily withdrawn from the containers by applying a vacuum. Gas manufacturer Linde exploits the low solubility of hydrogen in ILs to compress the gas up to 450 bar in filling stations by using an ionic liquid piston compressor,\n\nThe IL 1-butyl-3-methylimidazolium chloride has been investigated for separating hydrogen from ammonia borane.\n\nILs and amines have been investigated for capturing carbon dioxide and purifying natural gas.\n\nILs, especially imidazolium-based ILs have been found effective in pretreatment of coal before use in applications such as pyrolysis and gasification. Pretreatment with ionic liquids causes 'swelling' of the coal structure, allowing better gasification.\n\nRecognizing that approximately 50% of commercial pharmaceuticals are organic salts, ionic liquid forms of a number of pharmaceuticals have been investigated. Combining a pharmaceutically active cation with a pharmaceutically active anion leads to a Dual Active ionic liquid in which the actions of two drugs are combined.\n\nILs can extract specific compounds from plants for pharmaceutical, nutritional and cosmetic applications, such as the antimalarial drug artemisinin from the plant \"Artemisia annua\".\n\nThe dissolution of cellulose by ILs has attracted interest. A patent application from 1930 showed that 1-alkylpyridinium chlorides dissolve cellulose. Following in the footsteps of the lyocell process, which uses hydrated N-Methylmorpholine N-oxide, as a non-aqueous solvent for the dissolution of the pulp and paper. The dissolution of cellulose–based materials like tissue paper waste, generated in chemical industries and at research laboratories, in room temperature IL 1-butyl-3-methylimidazolium chloride, bmimCl and the recovery of valuable compounds by electrodeposition from this cellulose matrix was studied. The \"valorization\" of cellulose, i.e. its conversion to more valuable chemicals, has been achieved by the use of ionic liquids. Representative products are glucose esters, sorbitol, and alkylgycosides. IL 1-butyl-3-methylimidazolium chloride dissolves freeze dried banana pulp and with an additional 15% DMSO, lends itself to Carbon-13 NMR analysis. In this way the entire complex of starch, sucrose, glucose, and fructose can be monitored as a function of banana ripening.\n\nILs are effective for extracting chemicals potentially relevant to biodiesel, ethanol, and other biofuels from algae.\n\nThe IL 1-butyl-3-methylimidazolium chloride has been investigated as a non-aqueous electrolyte media for the recovery of uranium and other metals from spent nuclear fuel and other sources. Protonated betaine bis(trifluoromethanesulfonyl) imide has been investigated as a solvent for uranium oxides. Ionic liquids, N-butyl-N-methylpyrrolidinium bis(trifluoromethylsulfonyl)imide and N-methyl-N-propylpiperidinium bis(trifluoromethylsulfonyl)imide, have been investigated for the electrodeposition of europium and uranium metals respectively.\n\nILs are potential heat transfer and storage media in solar thermal energy systems. Concentrating solar thermal facilities such as parabolic troughs and solar power towers focus the sun's energy onto a receiver which can generate temperatures of around . This heat can then generate electricity in a steam or other cycle. For buffering during cloudy periods or to enable generation overnight, energy can be stored by heating an intermediate fluid. Although nitrate salts have been the medium of choice since the early 1980s, they freeze at and thus require heating to prevent solidification. Ionic liquids such as [] have more favorable liquid-phase temperature ranges (-75 to 459 °C) and could therefore be excellent liquid thermal storage media and heat transfer fluids.\n\nILs can aid the recycling of synthetic goods, plastics, and metals. They offer the specificity required to separate similar compounds from each other, such as separating polymers in plastic waste streams. This has been achieved using lower temperature extraction processes than current approaches and could help avoid incinerating plastics or dumping them in landfill.\n\nILs can replace water as the electrolyte in metal-air batteries. ILs are attractive because of their low vapor pressure, increasing battery life by drying more slowly. Furthermore, ILs have an electrochemical window of up to six volts (versus 1.23 for water) supporting more energy-dense metals. Energy densities from 900-1600 watt-hours per kilogram appear possible.\n\nILs can act as dispersing agents in paints to enhance finish, appearance and drying properties. ILs are used for dispersing nanomaterials at IOLITEC.\n\nIonic liquids have been proposed as an absorbent in carbon capture. They have various advantages over traditional absorbents, such as the currently dominant amine-based technologies. 1-Butyl-3-methylimidazolium hexafluorophosphate is one example of a proposed CO absorbent.\n\nSome ionic liquids have been shown to reduce friction and wear in basic tribological testing, and their polar nature makes them candidate lubricants for tribotronic applications. While the comparatively high cost of ionic liquids currently prevents their use as neat lubricants, adding ionic liquids in concentrations as low as 0.5 wt% may significantly alter the lubricating performance of conventional base oils. Thus, the current focus of research is on using ionic liquids as additives to lubricating oils, often with the motivation to replace widely used, ecologically harmful lubricant additives. However, the claimed ecological advantage of ionic liquids has been questioned repeatedly and is yet to be demonstrated from a lifecycle perspective.\n\nIonic liquids' low volatility effectively eliminates a major pathway for environmental release and contamination. However, this property is distinct from toxicity. Ionic liquids' aquatic toxicity is as severe as or more so than many current solvents. Mortality isn't necessarily the most important metric for measuring impacts in aquatic environments, as sub-lethal concentrations change organisms' life histories in meaningful ways. Balancing VOC reductions against waterway spills (via waste ponds/streams, etc.) requires further research. Ionic liquids' substituent diversity simplifies the process of identifying compounds that meet safety requirements.\n\nUltrasound can degrade solutions of imidazolium-based ionic liquids with hydrogen peroxide and acetic acid to relatively innocuous compounds.\n\nDespite low vapor pressure many ionic liquids are combustible and therefore require careful handling. Brief exposure (5 to 7 seconds) to a flame torch can ignite some Ionic liquids. Complete combustion is possible for some Ionic liquids.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18164620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18164620", "title": "Journey to the Center of the Earth (Nintendo DS)", "text": "Journey to the Center of the Earth (Nintendo DS)\n\nJourney to the Center of the Earth (shortened as JCOE) is an Action game for the Nintendo DS based on the movie: Journey to the Center of the Earth 3-D and is developed by American studio Human Soft and published by THQ.\n\n\"Journey to the Center of the Earth\" will allow the player to play as the three main characters of the movie: Trevor, Sean and Hannah as they journey to and through the center of the earth. In the game the player will navigate their way through the center of the Earth in an attempt to escape.\n\nThe gameplay of the game is based solely around the events of the movie in an open world environment, allowing the player to control out-of-control mine carts, and rafts throughout out the center of the Earth. THQ also expanded the environment of the center of the Earth to allow the player to further journey throughout the open environment. The game also features three playable characters: Trevor, Sean and Hannah, who each have a special ability. Progress in the game is based on the use of checkpoints. Each time a character dies, they return to the last checkpoint and continue from there.\"Journey to the Center of the Earth\" allows the player to control movements with the bottom screen while the character reacts on the upper screen. IGN said this about the game: \"Horrible controls make the game an endless pattern of accidentally jumping into bottomless pits.\"\n\n\nIGN simply noted that \"it's [the game] freaking terrible, and there's not even a console version to go play instead.\" IGN mainly criticized the game because there was only a version to play for the Nintendo DS and not on another platform. IGN also criticized the recordings of the game, saying that \"The voice acting and sound effects for Center of the Earth are so horrendously bad that they literally made me LOL.\"\n"}
{"id": "17143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17143", "title": "Koala", "text": "Koala\n\nThe koala (\"Phascolarctos cinereus\", or, inaccurately, koala bear) is an arboreal herbivorous marsupial native to Australia. It is the only extant representative of the family Phascolarctidae and its closest living relatives are the wombats, which comprise the family Vombatidae.. The koala is found in coastal areas of the mainland's eastern and southern regions, inhabiting Queensland, New South Wales, Victoria, and South Australia. It is easily recognisable by its stout, tailless body and large head with round, fluffy ears and large, spoon-shaped nose. The koala has a body length of and weighs . Pelage colour ranges from silver grey to chocolate brown. Koalas from the northern populations are typically smaller and lighter in colour than their counterparts further south. These populations possibly are separate subspecies, but this is disputed.\n\nKoalas typically inhabit open eucalypt woodlands, and the leaves of these trees make up most of their diet. Because this eucalypt diet has limited nutritional and caloric content, koalas are largely sedentary and sleep up to 20 hours a day. They are asocial animals, and bonding exists only between mothers and dependent offspring. Adult males communicate with loud bellows that intimidate rivals and attract mates. Males mark their presence with secretions from scent glands located on their chests. Being marsupials, koalas give birth to underdeveloped young that crawl into their mothers' pouches, where they stay for the first six to seven months of their lives. These young koalas, known as joeys, are fully weaned around a year old. Koalas have few natural predators and parasites, but are threatened by various pathogens, such as Chlamydiaceae bacteria and the koala retrovirus, as well as by bushfires and droughts.\n\nKoalas were hunted by Indigenous Australians and depicted in myths and cave art for millennia. The first recorded encounter between a European and a koala was in 1798, and an image of the animal was published in 1810 by naturalist George Perry. Botanist Robert Brown wrote the first detailed scientific description of the koala in 1814, although his work remained unpublished for 180 years. Popular artist John Gould illustrated and described the koala, introducing the species to the general British public. Further details about the animal's biology were revealed in the 19th century by several English scientists. Because of its distinctive appearance, the koala is recognised worldwide as a symbol of Australia. Koalas are listed as Vulnerable by the International Union for Conservation of Nature. The Australian government similarly lists specific populations in Queensland and New South Wales as Vulnerable. The animal was hunted heavily in the early 20th century for its fur, and large-scale cullings in Queensland resulted in a public outcry that initiated a movement to protect the species. Sanctuaries were established, and translocation efforts moved to new regions koalas whose habitat had become fragmented or reduced. The biggest threat to their existence is habitat destruction caused by agriculture and urbanisation.\n\nThe word koala comes from the Dharug \"gula\". Although the vowel 'u' was originally written in the English orthography as \"oo\" (in spellings such as \"coola\" or \"koolah\"), it was changed to \"oa\", possibly in error. Because of the koala's supposed resemblance to a bear, it was often miscalled the koala bear, particularly by early settlers. The generic name, \"Phascolarctos\", is derived from the Greek words \"phaskolos\" \"pouch\" and \"arktos\" \"bear\". The specific name, \"cinereus\", is Latin for \"ash coloured\".\n\nThe koala was given its generic name \"Phascolarctos\" in 1816 by French zoologist Henri Marie Ducrotay de Blainville, who would not give it a specific name until further review. In 1819, German zoologist Georg August Goldfuss gave it the binomial \"Lipurus cinereus\". Because \"Phascolarctos\" was published first, according to the International Code of Zoological Nomenclature, it has priority as the official name of the genus. French naturalist Anselme Gaëtan Desmarest proposed the name \"Phascolartos fuscus\" in 1820, suggesting that the brown-coloured versions were a different species than the grey ones. Other names suggested by European authors included \"Marodactylus cinereus\" by Goldfuss in 1820, \"P. flindersii\" by René Primevère Lesson in 1827, and \"P. koala\" by John Edward Gray in 1827.\n\nThe koala is classified with wombats (family Vombatidae) and several extinct families (including marsupial tapirs, marsupial lions and giant wombats) in the suborder Vombatiformes within the order Diprotodontia. The Vombatiformes are a sister group to a clade that includes macropods (kangaroos and wallabies) and possums. The ancestors of vombatiforms were likely arboreal, and the koala's lineage was possibly the first to branch off around 40 million years ago during the Eocene.\n\nThe modern koala is the only extant member of Phascolarctidae, a family that once included several genera and species. During the Oligocene and Miocene, koalas lived in rainforests and had less specialised diets. Some species, such as the Riversleigh rainforest koala (\"Nimiokoala greystanesi\") and some species of \"Perikoala\", were around the same size as the modern koala, while others, such as species of \"Litokoala\", were one-half to two-thirds its size. Like the modern species, prehistoric koalas had well developed ear structures which suggests that long-distance vocalising and sedentism developed early. During the Miocene, the Australian continent began drying out, leading to the decline of rainforests and the spread of open \"Eucalyptus\" woodlands. The genus \"Phascolarctos\" split from \"Litokoala\" in the late Miocene and had several adaptations that allowed it to live on a specialised eucalyptus diet: a shifting of the palate towards the front of the skull; larger molars and premolars; smaller pterygoid fossa; and a larger gap between the molar and the incisor teeth.\n\nDuring the Pliocene and Pleistocene, when Australia experienced changes in climate and vegetation, koala species grew larger. \"P. cinereus\" may have emerged as a dwarf form of the giant koala (\"P. stirtoni\"). The reduction in the size of large mammals has been seen as a common phenomenon worldwide during the late Pleistocene, and several Australian mammals, such as the agile wallaby, are traditionally believed to have resulted from this dwarfing. A 2008 study questions this hypothesis, noting that \"P. cinereus\" and \"P. stirtoni\" were sympatric during the middle to late Pleistocene, and possibly as early as the Pliocene. The fossil record of the modern koala extends back at least to the middle Pleistocene.\n\nTraditionally, three distinct subspecies have been recognised: the Queensland koala (\"P. c. adustus\", Thomas 1923), the New South Wales koala (\"P. c. cinereus\", Goldfuss 1817), and the Victorian koala (\"P. c. victor\", Troughton 1935). These forms are distinguished by pelage colour and thickness, body size, and skull shape. The Queensland koala is the smallest of the three, with shorter, silver fur and a shorter skull. The Victorian koala is the largest, with shaggier, brown fur and a wider skull. The boundaries of these variations are based on state borders, and their status as subspecies is disputed. A 1999 genetic study suggests that the variations represent differentiated populations with limited gene flow between them, and that the three subspecies comprise a single evolutionarily significant unit. Other studies have found that koala populations have high levels of inbreeding and low genetic variation. Such low genetic diversity may have been a characteristic of koala populations since the late Pleistocene. Rivers and roads have been shown to limit gene flow and contribute to the genetic differentiation of southeast Queensland populations. In April 2013, scientists from the Australian Museum and Queensland University of Technology announced they had fully sequenced the koala genome.\n\nThe koala is a stocky animal with a large head and vestigial or non-existent tail. It has a body length of and a weight of , making it among the largest arboreal marsupials. Koalas from Victoria are twice as heavy as those from Queensland. The species is sexually dimorphic, with males 50% larger than females. Males are further distinguished from females by their more curved noses and the presence of chest glands, which are visible as hairless patches. As in most marsupials, the male koala has a bifurcated penis, and the female has two lateral vaginas and two separate uteri. The male's penile sheath contains naturally occurring bacteria that play an important role in fertilisation. The female's pouch opening is tightened by a sphincter that keeps the young from falling out.\n\nThe pelage of the koala is thicker and longer on the back, and shorter on the belly. The ears have thick fur on both the inside and outside. The back fur colour varies from light grey to chocolate brown. The belly fur is whitish; on the rump it is dappled whitish, and darker at the back. The koala has the most effective insulating back fur of any marsupial and is highly resilient to wind and rain, while the belly fur can reflect solar radiation. The koala's curved, sharp claws are well adapted for climbing trees. The large forepaws have two opposable digits (the first and second, which are opposable to the other three) that allow them to grasp small branches. On the hindpaws, the second and third digits are fused, a typical condition for members of the Diprotodontia, and the attached claws (which are still separate) are used for grooming. As in humans and other primates, koalas have friction ridges on their paws. The animal has a sturdy skeleton and a short, muscular upper body with proportionately long upper limbs that contribute to its climbing and grasping abilities. Additional climbing strength is achieved with thigh muscles that attach to the shinbone lower than other animals. The koala has a cartilaginous pad at the end of the spine that may make it more comfortable when it perches in the fork of a tree.\n\nThe koala has one of the smallest brains in proportion to body weight of any mammal, being 60% smaller than that of a typical diprotodont, weighing only . The brain's surface is fairly smooth, typical for a \"primitive\" animal. It occupies only 61% of the cranial cavity and is pressed against the inside surface by cerebrospinal fluid. The function of this relatively large amount of fluid is not known, although one possibility is that it acts as a shock absorber, cushioning the brain if the animal falls from a tree. The koala's small brain size may be an adaptation to the energy restrictions imposed by its diet, which is insufficient to sustain a larger brain. Because of its small brain, the koala has a limited ability to perform complex, unfamiliar behaviours. For example, when presented with plucked leaves on a flat surface, the animal cannot adapt to the change in its normal feeding routine and will not eat the leaves. The koala's olfactory senses are normal, and it is known to sniff the oils of individual branchlets to assess their edibility. Its nose is fairly large and covered in leathery skin. Its round ears provide it with good hearing, and it has a well-developed middle ear. A koala's vision is not well developed, and its relatively small eyes are unusual among marsupials in that the pupils have vertical slits. Koalas make use of a novel vocal organ to produce low-pitched sounds (see social spacing, below). Unlike typical mammalian vocal cords, which are folds in the larynx, these organs are placed in the velum (soft palate) and are called velar vocal cords.\n\nThe koala has several adaptations for its eucalypt diet, which is of low nutritive value, of high toxicity, and high in dietary fibre. The animal's dentition consists of the incisors and cheek teeth (a single premolar and four molars on each jaw), which are separated by a large gap (a characteristic feature of herbivorous mammals). The incisors are used for grasping leaves, which are then passed to the premolars to be snipped at the petiole before being passed to the highly cusped molars, where they are shredded into small pieces. Koalas may also store food in their cheek pouches before it is ready to be chewed. The partially worn molars of middle-aged koalas are optimal for breaking the leaves into small particles, resulting in more efficient stomach digestion and nutrient absorption in the small intestine, which digests the eucalyptus leaves to provide most of the animal's energy. A koala sometimes regurgitates the food into the mouth to be chewed a second time.\n\nUnlike kangaroos and eucalyptus-eating possums, koalas are hindgut fermenters, and their digestive retention can last for up to 100 hours in the wild, or up to 200 hours in captivity. This is made possible by the extraordinary length of their caecum— long and in diameter—the largest proportionally of any animal. Koalas can select which food particles to retain for longer fermentation and which to pass through. Large particles typically pass through more quickly, as they would take more time to digest. While the hindgut is proportionally larger in the koala than in other herbivores, only 10% of the animal's energy is obtained from fermentation. Since the koala gains a low amount of energy from its diet, its metabolic rate is half that of a typical mammal, although this can vary between seasons and sexes. The koala conserves water by passing relatively dry faecal pellets high in undigested fibre, and by storing water in the caecum.\n\nThe koala's geographic range covers roughly , and 30 ecoregions. It extends throughout eastern and southeastern Australia, encompassing northeastern, central and southeastern Queensland, eastern New South Wales, Victoria, and southeastern South Australia. The koala was introduced near Adelaide and on several islands, including Kangaroo Island and French Island. The population on Magnetic Island represents the northern limit of its range. Fossil evidence shows that the koala's range stretched as far west as southwestern Western Australia during the late Pleistocene. They were likely driven to extinction in these areas by environmental changes and hunting by indigenous Australians.\n\nIn Queensland, koalas are unevenly distributed and uncommon except in the southeast, where they are numerous. In New South Wales, they are abundant only in Pilliga, while in Victoria they are common nearly everywhere. In South Australia, koalas were extirpated by 1920 and subsequently reintroduced. Koalas can be found in habitats ranging from relatively open forests to woodlands, and in climates ranging from tropical to cool temperate. In semi-arid climates, they prefer riparian habitats, where nearby streams and creeks provide refuge during times of drought and extreme heat.\n\nKoalas are herbivorous, and while most of their diet consists of eucalypt leaves, they can be found in trees of other genera, such as \"Acacia\", \"Allocasuarina\", \"Callitris\", \"Leptospermum\", and \"Melaleuca\". They are able to digest the toxins present in eucalyptus leaves due to their production of cytochrome P450, which breaks down these poisons in the liver. Though the foliage of over 600 species of \"Eucalyptus\" is available, the koala shows a strong preference for around 30. They tend to choose species that have a high protein content and low proportions of fibre and lignin. The most favoured species are \"Eucalyptus microcorys\", \"E. tereticornis\", and \"E. camaldulensis\", which, on average, make up more than 20% of their diet. Despite its reputation as a fussy eater, the koala is more generalist than some other marsupial species, such as the greater glider. Since eucalypt leaves have a high water content, the koala does not need to drink often; its daily water turnover rate ranges from 71 to 91 ml/kg of body weight. Although females can meet their water requirements from eating leaves, larger males require additional water found on the ground or in tree hollows. When feeding, a koala holds onto a branch with hindpaws and one forepaw while the other forepaw grasps foliage. Small koalas can move close to the end of a branch, but larger ones stay near the thicker bases. Koalas consume up to of leaves a day, spread over four to six feeding sessions. Despite their adaptations to a low-energy lifestyle, they have meagre fat reserves and need to feed often.\n\nBecause they get so little energy from their diet, koalas must limit their energy use and sleep 20 hours a day; only 4 hours a day are spent in active movement. They are predominantly active at night and spend most of their waking hours feeding. They typically eat and sleep in the same tree, possibly for as long as a day. \n\nOn very hot days, a koala may climb down to the coolest part of the tree which is cooler than the surrounding air. The koala hugs the tree to lose heat without \"panting\". On warm days, a koala may rest with its back against a branch or lie on its stomach or back with its limbs dangling. During cold, wet periods, it curls itself into a tight ball to conserve energy. On windy days, a koala finds a lower, thicker branch on which to rest. While it spends most of the time in the tree, the animal descends to the ground to move to another tree, walking on all fours. The koala usually grooms itself with its hindpaws, but sometimes uses its forepaws or mouth.\n\nKoalas are asocial animals and spend just 15 minutes a day on social behaviours. In Victoria, home ranges are small and have extensive overlap, while in central Queensland they are larger and overlap less. Koala society appears to consist of \"residents\" and \"transients\", the former being mostly adult females and the latter males. Resident males appear to be territorial and dominate others with their larger body size. Alpha males tend to establish their territories close to breeding females, while younger males are subordinate until they mature and reach full size. Adult males occasionally venture outside their home ranges; when they do so, dominant ones retain their status. When a male enters a new tree, he marks it by rubbing his chest gland against the trunk or a branch; males have occasionally been observed to dribble urine on the trunk. This scent-marking behaviour probably serves as communication, and individuals are known to sniff the base of a tree before climbing. Scent marking is common during aggressive encounters. Chest gland secretions are complex chemical mixtures—about 40 compounds were identified in one analysis—that vary in composition and concentration with the season and the age of the individual.\n\nAdult males communicate with loud bellows—low pitched sounds that consist of snore-like inhalations and resonant exhalations that sound like growls. These sounds are thought to be generated by unique vocal organs found in koalas. Because of their low frequency, these bellows can travel far through air and vegetation. Koalas may bellow at any time of the year, particularly during the breeding season, when it serves to attract females and possibly intimidate other males. They also bellow to advertise their presence to their neighbours when they enter a new tree. These sounds signal the male's actual body size, as well as exaggerate it; females pay more attention to bellows that originate from larger males. Female koalas bellow, though more softly, in addition to making snarls, wails, and screams. These calls are produced when in distress and when making defensive threats. Young koalas squeak when in distress. As they get older, the squeak develops into a \"squawk\" produced both when in distress and to show aggression. When another individual climbs over it, a koala makes a low grunt with its mouth closed. Koalas make numerous facial expressions. When snarling, wailing, or squawking, the animal curls the upper lip and points its ears forward. During screams, the lips retract and the ears are drawn back. Females bring their lips forward and raise their ears when agitated.\n\nAgonistic behaviour typically consists of squabbles between individuals climbing over or passing each other. This occasionally involves biting. Males that are strangers may wrestle, chase, and bite each other. In extreme situations, a male may try to displace a smaller rival from a tree. This involves the larger aggressor climbing up and attempting to corner the victim, which tries either to rush past him and climb down or to move to the end of a branch. The aggressor attacks by grasping the target by the shoulders and repeatedly biting him. Once the weaker individual is driven away, the victor bellows and marks the tree. Pregnant and lactating females are particularly aggressive and attack individuals that come too close. In general, however, koalas tend to avoid energy-wasting aggressive behaviour.\n\nKoalas are seasonal breeders, and births take place from the middle of spring through the summer to early autumn, from October to May. Females in oestrus tend to hold their heads further back than usual and commonly display tremors and spasms. However, males do not appear to recognise these signs, and have been observed to mount non-oestrous females. Because of his much larger size, a male can usually force himself on a female, mounting her from behind, and in extreme cases, the male may pull the female out of the tree. A female may scream and vigorously fight off her suitors, but will submit to one that is dominant or is more familiar. The bellows and screams that accompany matings can attract other males to the scene, obliging the incumbent to delay mating and fight off the intruders. These fights may allow the female to assess which is dominant. Older males usually have accumulated scratches, scars, and cuts on the exposed parts of their noses and on their eyelids.\n\nThe koala's gestation period lasts 33–35 days, and a female gives birth to a single joey (although twins occur on occasion). As with all marsupials, the young are born while at the embryonic stage, weighing only . However, they have relatively well-developed lips, forelimbs, and shoulders, as well as functioning respiratory, digestive, and urinary systems. The joey crawls into its mother's pouch to continue the rest of its development. Unlike most other marsupials, the koala does not clean her pouch.\n\nA female koala has two teats; the joey attaches itself to one of them and suckles for the rest of its pouch life. The koala has one of the lowest milk energy production rates in relation to body size of any mammal. The female makes up for this by lactating for as long as 12 months. At seven weeks of age, the joey's head grows longer and becomes proportionally large, pigmentation begins to develop, and its sex can be determined (the scrotum appears in males and the pouch begins to develop in females). At 13 weeks, the joey weighs around and its head has doubled in size. The eyes begin to open and fine fur grows on the forehead, nape, shoulders, and arms. At 26 weeks, the fully furred animal resembles an adult, and begins to poke its head out of the pouch.\n\nAs the young koala approaches six months, the mother begins to prepare it for its eucalyptus diet by predigesting the leaves, producing a faecal pap that the joey eats from her cloacum. The pap is quite different in composition from regular faeces, resembling instead the contents of the caecum, which has a high concentration of bacteria. Eaten for about a month, the pap provides a supplementary source of protein at a transition time from a milk to a leaf diet. The joey fully emerges from the pouch for the first time at six or seven months of age, when it weighs . It explores its new surroundings cautiously, clinging to its mother for support. By nine months, it weighs over and develops its adult fur colour. Having permanently left the pouch, it rides on its mother's back for transportation, learning to climb by grasping branches. Gradually, it spends more time away from its mother, and at 12 months it is fully weaned, weighing around . When the mother becomes pregnant again, her bond with her previous offspring is permanently severed. Newly weaned young are encouraged to disperse by their mothers' aggressive behaviour towards them.\n\nFemales become sexually mature at about three years of age and can then become pregnant; in comparison, males reach sexual maturity when they are about four years old, although they can produce sperm as early as two years. While the chest glands can be functional as early as 18 months of age, males do not begin scent-marking behaviours until they reach sexual maturity. Because the offspring have a long dependent period, female koalas usually breed in alternate years. Favourable environmental factors, such as a plentiful supply of high-quality food trees, allow them to reproduce every year.\n\nKoalas may live from 13 to 18 years in the wild. While female koalas usually live this long, males may die sooner because of their more hazardous lives. Koalas usually survive falls from trees and immediately climb back up, but injuries and deaths from falls do occur, particularly in inexperienced young and fighting males. Around six years of age, the koala's chewing teeth begin to wear down and their chewing efficiency decreases. Eventually, the cusps disappear completely and the animal will die of starvation.\n\nKoalas have few predators; dingos and large pythons may prey on them, while birds of prey (such as powerful owls and wedge-tailed eagles) are threats to young. They are generally not subject to external parasites, other than ticks in coastal areas. Koalas may also suffer mange from the mite \"Sarcoptes scabiei\", and skin ulcers from the bacterium \"Mycobacterium ulcerans\", but neither is common. Internal parasites are few and largely harmless. These include the tapeworm \"Bertiella obesa\", commonly found in the intestine, and the nematodes \"Marsupostrongylus longilarvatus\" and \"Durikainema phascolarcti\", which are infrequently found in the lungs. In a three-year study of almost 600 koalas admitted to the Australian Zoo Wildlife Hospital in Queensland, 73.8% of the animals were infected with at least one species of the parasitic protozoal genus \"Trypanosoma\", the most common of which was \"T. irwini\".\n\nKoalas can be subject to pathogens such as Chlamydiaceae bacteria, which can cause keratoconjunctivitis, urinary tract infection, and reproductive tract infection. Such infections are widespread on the mainland, but absent in some island populations. The koala retrovirus (KoRV) may cause koala immune deficiency syndrome (KIDS) which is similar to AIDS in humans. Prevalence of KoRV in koala populations suggests a trend spreading from the north to the south of Australia. Northern populations are completely infected, while some southern populations (including Kangaroo Island) are free.\n\nThe animals are vulnerable to bushfires due to their slow movements and the flammability of eucalypt trees. The koala instinctively seeks refuge in the higher branches, where it is vulnerable to intense heat and flames. Bushfires also fragment the animal's habitat, which restricts their movement and leads to population decline and loss of genetic diversity. Dehydration and overheating can also prove fatal. Consequently, the koala is vulnerable to the effects of climate change. Models of climate change in Australia predict warmer and drier climates, suggesting that the koala's range will shrink in the east and south to more mesic habitats. Droughts also affect the koala's well-being. For example, a severe drought in 1980 caused many \"Eucalyptus\" trees to lose their leaves. Subsequently, 63% of the population in southwestern Queensland died, especially young animals that were excluded from prime feeding sites by older, dominant koalas, and recovery of the population was slow. Later, this population declined from an estimated mean population of 59,000 in 1995 to 11,600 in 2009, a reduction attributed largely to hotter and drier conditions resulting from droughts in most years between 2002 and 2007. Another predicted negative outcome of climate change is the effect of elevations in atmospheric levels on the koala's food supply: increases in cause \"Eucalyptus\" trees to reduce protein and increase tannin concentrations in their leaves, reducing the quality of the food source.\n\nThe first written reference of the koala was recorded by John Price, servant of John Hunter, the Governor of New South Wales. Price encountered the \"cullawine\" on 26 January 1798, during an expedition to the Blue Mountains, although his account was not published until nearly a century later in \"Historical Records of Australia\". In 1802, French-born explorer Francis Louis Barrallier encountered the animal when his two Aboriginal guides, returning from a hunt, brought back two koala feet they were intending to eat. Barrallier preserved the appendages and sent them and his notes to Hunter's successor, Philip Gidley King, who forwarded them to Joseph Banks. Similar to Price, Barrallier's notes were not published until 1897. Reports of the first capture of a live \"koolah\" appeared in \"The Sydney Gazette\" in August 1803. Within a few weeks Flinders' astronomer, James Inman, purchased a specimen pair for live shipment to Joseph Banks in England. They were described as 'somewhat larger than the Waumbut (Wombat)'. These encounters helped provide the impetus for King to commission the artist John Lewin to paint watercolours of the animal. Lewin painted three pictures, one of which was subsequently made into a print that was reproduced in Georges Cuvier's \"The Animal Kingdom\" (first published in 1827) and several European works on natural history.\n\nBotanist Robert Brown was the first to write a detailed scientific description of the koala in 1814, based on a female specimen captured near what is now Mount Kembla in the Illawarra region of New South Wales. Austrian botanical illustrator Ferdinand Bauer drew the animal's skull, throat, feet, and paws. Brown's work remained unpublished and largely unnoticed, however, as his field books and notes remained in his possession until his death, when they were bequeathed to the British Museum (Natural History) in London. They were not identified until 1994, while Bauer's koala watercolours were not published until 1989. British surgeon Everard Home included details of the koala based on eyewitness accounts of William Paterson, who had befriended Brown and Bauer during their stay in New South Wales. Home, who in 1808 published his report in the journal \"Philosophical Transactions of the Royal Society\", gave the animal the scientific name \"Didelphis coola\".\n\nThe first published image of the koala appeared in George Perry's (1810) natural history work \"Arcana\". Perry called it the \"New Holland Sloth\" on account of its perceived similarities to the Central and South American tree-living mammals of genus \"Bradypus\". His disdain for the koala, evident in his description of the animal, was typical of the prevailing early 19th-century British attitude about the primitiveness and oddity of Australian fauna: \"... the eye is placed like that of the Sloth, very close to the mouth and nose, which gives it a clumsy awkward appearance, and void of elegance in the combination ... they have little either in their character or appearance to interest the Naturalist or Philosopher. As Nature however provides nothing in vain, we may suppose that even these torpid, senseless creatures are wisely intended to fill up one of the great links of the chain of animated nature ...\".\nNaturalist and popular artist John Gould illustrated and described the koala in his three-volume work \"The Mammals of Australia\" (1845–63) and introduced the species, as well as other members of Australia's little-known faunal community, to the general British public. Comparative anatomist Richard Owen, in a series of publications on the physiology and anatomy of Australian mammals, presented a paper on the anatomy of the koala to the Zoological Society of London. In this widely cited publication, he provided the first careful description of its internal anatomy, and noted its general structural similarity to the wombat. English naturalist George Robert Waterhouse, curator of the Zoological Society of London, was the first to correctly classify the koala as a marsupial in the 1840s. He identified similarities between it and its fossil relatives \"Diprotodon\" and \"Nototherium\", which had been discovered just a few years before. Similarly, Gerard Krefft, curator of the Australian Museum in Sydney, noted evolutionary mechanisms at work when comparing the koala to its ancestral relatives in his 1871 \"The Mammals of Australia\".\n\nThe first living koala in Britain arrived in 1881, purchased by the Zoological Society of London. As related by prosecutor to the society, William Alexander Forbes, the animal suffered an accidental demise when the heavy lid of a washstand fell on it and it was unable to free itself. Forbes used the opportunity to dissect the fresh female specimen, thus was able to provide explicit anatomical details on the female reproductive system, the brain, and the liver—parts not previously described by Owen, who had access only to preserved specimens. Scottish embryologist William Caldwell—well known in scientific circles for determining the reproductive mechanism of the platypus—described the uterine development of the koala in 1884, and used the new information to convincingly place the koala and the monotremes into an evolutionary time frame.\n\nPrince Henry, Duke of Gloucester, visited the Koala Park Sanctuary in Sydney in 1934 and was \"intensely interested in the bears\". His photograph, with Noel Burnet, the founder of the park, and a koala, appeared in \"The Sydney Morning Herald\". After World War II, when tourism to Australia increased and the animals were exported to zoos overseas, the koala's international popularity rose. Several political leaders and members of royal families had their pictures taken with koalas, including Queen Elizabeth II, Prince Harry, Crown Prince Naruhito, Crown Princess Masako, Pope John Paul II, US President Bill Clinton, Soviet premier Mikhail Gorbachev, South African President Nelson Mandela, Prime Minister Tony Abbott, and Russian President Vladimir Putin.\n\nThe koala is well known worldwide and is a major draw for Australian zoos and wildlife parks. It has been featured in advertisements, games, cartoons, and as soft toys. It benefited the national tourism industry by over an estimated billion Australian dollars in 1998, a figure that has since grown. In 1997, half of visitors to Australia, especially those from Korea, Japan, and Taiwan, sought out zoos and wildlife parks; about 75% of European and Japanese tourists placed the koala at the top of their list of animals to see. According to biologist Stephen Jackson: \"If you were to take a straw poll of the animal most closely associated with Australia, it's a fair bet that the koala would come out marginally in front of the kangaroo\". Factors that contribute to the koala's enduring popularity include its child-like body proportions and teddy bear-like face.\n\nThe koala is featured in the Dreamtime stories and mythology of indigenous Australians. The Tharawal people believed that the animal helped row the boat that brought them to the continent. Another myth tells of how a tribe killed a koala and used its long intestines to create a bridge for people from other parts of the world. This narrative highlights the koala's status as a game animal and the length of its intestines. Several stories tell of how the koala lost its tail. In one, a kangaroo cuts it off to punish the koala for being lazy and greedy. Tribes in both Queensland and Victoria regarded the koala as a wise animal and sought its advice. Bidjara-speaking people credited the koala for turning barren lands into lush forests. The animal is also depicted in rock carvings, though not as much as some other species.\n\nEarly European settlers in Australia considered the koala to be a prowling sloth-like animal with a \"fierce and menacing look\". At the beginning of the 20th century, the koala's reputation took a more positive turn, largely due to its growing popularity and depiction in several widely circulated children's stories. It is featured in Ethel Pedley's 1899 book \"Dot and the Kangaroo\", in which it is portrayed as the \"funny native bear\". Artist Norman Lindsay depicted a more anthropomorphic koala in \"The Bulletin\" cartoons, starting in 1904. This character also appeared as Bunyip Bluegum in Lindsay's 1918 book \"The Magic Pudding\". Perhaps the most famous fictional koala is Blinky Bill. Created by Dorothy Wall in 1933, the character appeared in several books and has been the subject of films, TV series, merchandise, and a 1986 environmental song by John Williamson. The first Australian stamp featuring a koala was issued by the Commonwealth in 1930. A television ad campaign for Australia's national airline Qantas, starting in 1967 and running for several decades, featured a live koala (voiced by Howard Morris), who complained that too many tourists were coming to Australia and concluded \"I hate Qantas\". The series has been ranked among the greatest commercials of all time.\n\nThe song \"Ode to a Koala Bear\" appears on the B-side of the 1983 Paul McCartney/Michael Jackson duet single \"Say Say Say\". A koala is the main character in Hanna-Barbera's \"The Kwicky Koala Show\" and Nippon Animation's \"Noozles\", both of which were animated cartoons of the early 1980s. Food products shaped like the koala include the Caramello Koala chocolate bar and the bite-sized cookie snack Koala's March. Dadswells Bridge in Victoria features a tourist complex shaped like a giant koala, and the Queensland Reds rugby team has a koala as its mascot. The Platinum Koala coin features the animal on the reverse and Elizabeth II on the obverse.\n\nThe drop bear is an imaginary creature in contemporary Australian folklore featuring a predatory, carnivorous version of the koala. This hoax animal is commonly spoken about in tall tales designed to scare tourists. While koalas are typically docile herbivores, drop bears are described as unusually large and vicious marsupials that inhabit treetops and attack unsuspecting people (or other prey) that walk beneath them by dropping onto their heads from above.\n\nWhile the koala was previously classified as Least Concern on the Red List, it was uplisted to Vulnerable in 2016. Australian policy makers declined a 2009 proposal to include the koala in the Environment Protection and Biodiversity Conservation Act 1999. In 2012, the Australian government listed koala populations in Queensland and New South Wales as Vulnerable, because of a 40% population decline in the former and a 33% decline in the latter. Populations in Victoria and South Australia appear to be abundant; however, the Australian Koala Foundation argues that the exclusion of Victorian populations from protective measures is based on a misconception that the total koala population is 200,000, whereas they believe it is probably less than 100,000.\n\nKoalas were hunted for food by Aboriginals. A common technique used to capture the animals was to attach a loop of ropey bark to the end of a long, thin pole, so as to form a noose. This would be used to snare an animal high in a tree, beyond the reach of a climbing hunter; an animal brought down this way would then be killed with a stone hand axe or hunting stick (waddy). According to the customs of some tribes, it was considered taboo to skin the animal, while other tribes thought the animal's head had a special status, and saved them for burial.\nThe koala was heavily hunted by European settlers in the early 20th century, largely for its thick, soft fur. More than two million pelts are estimated to have left Australia by 1924. Pelts were in demand for use in rugs, coat linings, muffs, and as trimming on women's garments. Extensive cullings occurred in Queensland in 1915, 1917, and again in 1919, when over one million koalas were killed with guns, poisons, and nooses. The public outcry over these cullings was probably the first wide-scale environmental issue that rallied Australians. Novelist and social critic Vance Palmer, writing in a letter to \"The Courier-Mail\", expressed the popular sentiment: \"The shooting of our harmless and lovable native bear is nothing less than barbarous ... No one has ever accused him of spoiling the farmer's wheat, eating the squatter's grass, or even the spreading of the prickly pear. There is no social vice that can be put down to his account ... He affords no sport to the gun-man ... And he has been almost blotted out already from some areas.\" Despite the growing movement to protect native species, the poverty brought about by the drought of 1926–28 led to the killing of another 600,000 koalas during a one-month open season in August 1927. In 1934, Frederick Lewis, the Chief Inspector of Game in Victoria, said that the once-abundant animal had been brought to near extinction in that state, suggesting that only 500–1000 remained.\nThe first successful efforts at conserving the species were initiated by the establishment of Brisbane's Lone Pine Koala Sanctuary and Sydney's Koala Park Sanctuary in the 1920s and 1930s. The owner of the latter park, Noel Burnet, became the first to successfully breed koalas and earned a reputation as the foremost contemporary authority on the marsupial. In 1934, David Fleay, curator of Australian mammals at the Melbourne Zoo, established the first Australian faunal enclosure at an Australian zoo, and featured the koala. This arrangement allowed him to undertake a detailed study of its diet in captivity. Fleay later continued his conservation efforts at Healesville Sanctuary and the David Fleay Wildlife Park.\n\nSince 1870, koalas have been introduced to several coastal and offshore islands, including Kangaroo Island and French Island. Their numbers have significantly increased, and since the islands are not large enough to sustain such high koala numbers, overbrowsing has become a problem. In the 1920s, Lewis initiated a program of large-scale relocation and rehabilitation programs to transfer koalas whose habitat had become fragmented or reduced to new regions, with the intent of eventually returning them to their former range. For example, in 1930–31, 165 koalas were translocated to Quail Island. After a period of population growth, and subsequent overbrowsing of gum trees on the island, about 1,300 animals were released into mainland areas in 1944. The practice of translocating koalas became commonplace; Victorian State manager Peter Menkorst estimated that from 1923 to 2006, about 25,000 animals were translocated to more than 250 release sites across Victoria. Since the 1990s, government agencies have tried to control their numbers by culling, but public and international outcry has forced the use of translocation and sterilisation, instead.\nOne of the biggest anthropogenic threats to the koala is habitat destruction and fragmentation. In coastal areas, the main cause of this is urbanisation, while in rural areas, habitat is cleared for agriculture. Native forest trees are also taken down to be made into wood products. In 2000, Australia ranked fifth in the world by deforestation rates, having cleared . The distribution of the koala has shrunk by more than 50% since European arrival, largely due to fragmentation of habitat in Queensland. The koala's \"vulnerable\" status in Queensland and New South Wales means that developers in these states must consider the impacts on this species when making building applications. In addition, koalas live in many protected areas.\n\nWhile urbanisation can pose a threat to koala populations, the animals can survive in urban areas provided enough trees are present. Urban populations have distinct vulnerabilities: collisions with vehicles and attacks by domestic dogs kill about 4,000 animals every year. Injured koalas are often taken to wildlife hospitals and rehabilitation centres. In a 30-year retrospective study performed at a New South Wales koala rehabilitation centre, trauma (usually resulting from a motor vehicle accident or dog attack) was found to be the most frequent cause of admission, followed by symptoms of \"Chlamydia\" infection. Wildlife caretakers are issued special permits, but must release the animals back into the wild when they are either well enough or, in the case of joeys, old enough. As with most native animals, the koala cannot legally be kept as a pet in Australia or anywhere else.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22445857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22445857", "title": "List of Hebeloma species", "text": "List of Hebeloma species\n\nThis is a list of species in the agaric genus \"Hebeloma\". A 2008 estimate placed about 150 in the genus. , Index Fungorum accepts 321 species in \"Hebeloma\":\n\nA B C D E F G H I J K L M N O P Q R S T U V U W X Y Z\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11793453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11793453", "title": "List of Minnesota weather records", "text": "List of Minnesota weather records\n\nThe following is a list of Minnesota weather records observed at various stations across the state during the last 100 years. Minnesota is a state in the Upper Midwestern region of the United States. Due to its location in the northern plains of the United States its climate is one of extremes. Minnesota's history of nearly continuous meteorological record keeping stretches back nearly two centuries to 1819 when Fort Snelling was settled. By 1871 the first official government observations were taking place in the Twin Cities and by the early 20th century most statewide stations that exist today were in operation.\n\n\"Record flood stages for selected cities in Minnesota\"\n over Minnesota\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54084997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54084997", "title": "List of exoplanets (full)", "text": "List of exoplanets (full)\n\nThis list of exoplanets is a list of confirmed exoplanets. For lists broken down by year, see .\n\nFor exoplanets detected only by radial velocity, the listed value for mass is a lower limit. See Minimum mass for more information.\n\n"}
{"id": "8344111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8344111", "title": "List of glaciers of Pakistan", "text": "List of glaciers of Pakistan\n\nFollowing is list of glaciers of Pakistan: Almost all of them are present in Gilgit-Baltistan\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36186921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36186921", "title": "List of nature centers in California", "text": "List of nature centers in California\n\nThis is a list of nature centers and environmental education centers in the state of California.\n\nTo use the sortable tables: click on the icons at the top of each column to sort that column in alphabetical order; click again for reverse alphabetical order.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20795059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20795059", "title": "List of nuclear submarines", "text": "List of nuclear submarines\n\nThis is a list of nuclear-powered submarines.\n\n\nChina SSN sub classes - 091 (Han), 093 (Shang) , 095 (SSGN), 097 (Qin)\nChina SSBN sub classes - 092 (Xia), 094 (Jin), 096 (Tang), new-type 098 fourth-generation strategic nuclear submarine\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9731", "title": "List of recently extinct bird species", "text": "List of recently extinct bird species\n\nOver 190 species of birds have become extinct since 1500, and the rate of extinction seems to be increasing. The situation is exemplified by Hawaii, where 30% of all known recently extinct bird taxa originally lived. Other areas, such as Guam, have also been hit hard; Guam has lost over 60% of its native bird taxa in the last 30 years, many of them due to the introduced brown tree snake.\n\nCurrently there are approximately 10,000 living species of birds, with an estimated 1,200 considered to be under threat of extinction.\n\nIsland species in general, and flightless island species in particular, are most at risk. The disproportionate number of rails in the list reflects the tendency of that family to lose the ability to fly when geographically isolated. Even more rails became extinct before they could be described by scientists; these taxa are listed in List of Late Quaternary prehistoric bird species.\n\nThe extinction dates given below are usually approximations of the actual date of extinction. In some cases, more exact dates are given as it is sometimes possible to pinpoint the date of extinction to a specific year or even day (the San Benedicto rock wren is possibly the most extreme example—its extinction could be timed with an accuracy of maybe half an hour). Extinction dates in the literature are usually the dates of the last verified record (credible observation or specimen taken); for many Pacific birds that became extinct shortly after European contact, however, this leaves an uncertainty period of over a century, because the islands on which they lived were only rarely visited by scientists.\n\n\n\nDucks, geese and swans\n\nQuails and relatives\nSee also Bokaak \"bustard\" under Gruiformes below\n\nShorebirds, gulls and auks\n\nRails and allies - probably paraphyletic\n\n\nGrebes\n\n\nPelicans and related birds\n\n\nBoobies and related birds\n\n\nPetrels, shearwaters, albatrosses and storm petrels.\n\nPenguins\n\nPigeons, doves and dodos\nFor the \"Réunion solitaire\", see Réunion ibis.\n\nParrots\n\n\nCuckoos\n\nBirds of prey\n\nTypical owls and barn owls.\n\nCaprimulgidae - nightjars and nighthawks\nReclusive ground-nesting birds that sally out at night to hunt for large insects and similar prey. They are easily located by the males' song, but this is not given all year. Habitat destruction represents currently the biggest threat, while island populations are threatened by introduced mammalian predators, notably dogs, cats, pigs and mongoose.\n\nSwifts and hummingbirds\n\nKingfishers and related birds\n\nWoodpeckers and related birds\n\nPerching birds\n\nAcanthisittidae– New Zealand \"wrens\"\n\nMohoidae – Hawaiian \"honeyeaters\". Family established in 2008, previously in Meliphagidae.\n\nMeliphagidae – honeyeaters and Australian chats\n\nAcanthizidae – scrubwrens, thornbills, and gerygones\n\nPachycephalidae – whistlers, shrike-thrushes, pitohuis and allies\n\nDicruridae – monarch flycatchers and allies\n\nOriolidae – Old World orioles and allies\n\n\nCallaeidae – New Zealand wattlebirds\n\n\nHirundinidae – swallows and martins\n\nAcrocephalidae – marsh and tree warblers\nLast reliable sighting was in 1981. Survey in 1986/1987 remained unsuccessful. A photograph of a warbler from Moorea in 1998 or 1999 taken by Philippe Bacchet remains uncertain, as do reports from 2003 and 2010. \n\nMuscicapidae – Old World flycatchers and chats\n\nMegaluridae – megalurid warblers or grass warblers\n\nCisticolidae – cisticolas and allies\n\nZosteropidae – white-eyes - probably belonging to Timaliidae\n\nTimaliidae – Old World babblers\n\nPycnonotidae – bulbuls\n\nSylvioidea \"incertae sedis\"\n\nSturnidae – starlings\n\n\nTurdidae – thrushes and relatives\n\nMimidae – mockingbirds and thrashers\n\nEstrildidae– estrildid finches (waxbills, munias, etc.)\n\nIcteridae – grackles\n\nParulidae – New World warblers\nPloceidae – weavers\n\nFringillidae – true finches and Hawaiian honeycreepers\n\nEmberizidae – buntings and American sparrow\n\nExtinction of subspecies is a subject very dependent on guesswork. National and international conservation projects and research publications such as redlists usually focus on species as a whole. Reliable information on the status of threatened subspecies usually has to be assembled piecemeal from published observations such as regional checklists. Therefore, the following listing contains a high proportion of taxa that may still exist, but are listed here due to any combination of absence of recent records, a known threat such as habitat destruction, or an observed decline.\n\nThe ostrich and related ratites\n\n\n\nTinamous\n\nDucks, geese and swans\n\nQuails and relatives\n\nShorebirds, gulls and auks\n\nRails and allies - probably paraphyletic\n\nHerons and related birds - possibly paraphyletic\n\nSandgrouses\n\nPigeons, doves and dodos\n\nParrots\n\nCuckoos\n\nBirds of prey\n\nTypical owls and barn owls\n\nNightjars and allies\n\nSwifts and hummingbirds\n\nKingfishers and related birds\n\nWoodpeckers and related birds\n\nPerching birds\n\nPittidae – pittas\n\nTyrannidae – tyrant flycatchers\n\nFurnariidae – ovenbirds\n\nFormicariidae – antpittas and antthrushes\n\nMaluridae – Australasian \"wrens\"\n\nPardalotidae – pardalotes, scrubwrens, thornbills, and gerygones\n\nPetroicidaeAustralasian \"robins\"\n\nCinclosomatidae – whipbirds and allies\n\nArtamidae – woodswallows, currawongs and allies\n\nMonarchidae – monarch flycatchers\n\nRhipiduridae – fantails\n\nCampephagidae – cuckoo-shrikes and trillers\n\nOriolidae – orioles and figbird\n\nCorvidae – crows, ravens, magpies and jays\n\nCallaeidae – New Zealand wattlebirds\n\nRegulidae – kinglets\n\nHirundinidae – swallows and martins\n\nPhylloscopidae – phylloscopid warblers or leaf-warblers\n\nCettiidae – cettiid warblers or typical bush-warblers\n\nAcrocephalidae – acrocephalid warblers or marsh- and tree warblers\n\nPycnonotidae – bulbuls\n\nCisticolidae – cisticolas and allies\n\nSylviidae – sylviid (\"true\") warblers and parrotbills\n\nZosteropidae – white-eyes. Probably belong into Timaliidae\n\nTimaliidae – Old World babblers\n\n\"African warblers\"\n\nSylvioidea \"incertae sedis\"\n\nTroglodytidae – wrens\n\nParidae – tits, chickadees and titmice\n\nCinclidae – dippers\n\nMuscicapidae – Old World flycatchers and chats\n\nTurdidae – thrushes and allies\n\nMimidae – mockingbirds and thrashers\n\nEstrildidae – Estrildid finches (waxbills, munias, etc.)\n\nFringillidae – True finches and Hawaiian honeycreepers\nIcteridae – grackles\n\nParulidae – New World warblers\n\nThraupidae – tanagers\n\nEmberizidae – buntings and American sparrows\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9149205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9149205", "title": "List of wheat diseases", "text": "List of wheat diseases\n\nThis article is a list of diseases of wheat (\"Triticum\" spp.) grouped by causative agent.\n\n"}
{"id": "28042518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28042518", "title": "Marine Life Park", "text": "Marine Life Park\n\nThe Marine Life Park is a part of Resorts World Sentosa, Sentosa, situated in southern Singapore. The 8-hectare (20-acre) park houses two attractions, the S.E.A. Aquarium and the Adventure Cove Waterpark, and featured the largest oceanarium in the world from 2012 to 2014, until it was surpassed by Chimelong Ocean Kingdom.\n\nThe S.E.A. Aquarium (South East Asia Aquarium) was the world's largest aquarium by total water volume until overtaken by Chimelong Ocean Kingdom in Hengqin, China. It contains a total of of water for more than 100,000 marine animals of over 800 species. The aquarium comprises 10 zones with 49 habitats. The centerpiece of the Aquarium is the Open Ocean tank with more than and 50,000 animals. Until 2014 when eclipsed by China's Chimelong Ocean Kingdom, it had the world's largest viewing panel, wide and tall, which is intended to give visitors the feeling of being on the ocean floor.\n\nThe S.E.A. Aquarium houses the world's largest collection of manta rays, including the only giant oceanic manta ray in captivity. It also showcases 24 Indo-Pacific bottlenose dolphins, scalloped hammerhead sharks, the Japanese spider crab, and relatively uncommonly-exhibited species such as the guitarfish and the chambered nautilus.\n\nHere is the list of some marine animals living in the S.E.A. Aquarium:\n\nThe main attractions include:\n\nDining is possible at the Ocean Restaurant by Cat Cora and S.E.A. Side Snacks.\n\nThe gift shop located at the exit of S.E.A. Aquarium sells a variety of souvenirs.\n\nThe resort originally planned to include whale sharks, but conceded that it might not be feasible to house them and has dropped the plan. There is ongoing controversy over captures of wild dolphins from Solomon Islands and the facilities in which they are kept in Subic Bay, Philippines. On 14 October 2012, Quezon City court issued a 72-hour temporary environment protection order to block the re-export of the dolphins to Marine Life Park, following a civil rights suit filed by animal rights groups. RWS spokesperson reiterated that the resort's acquisition of the 25 Indo-Pacific bottlenose dolphins adhere to regulations governed by the United Nations Environment Programme under the Convention on International Trade in Endangered Species of Wild Fauna and Flora.\n\nAnother appeal was made and the exports to Singapore were temporarily held. When the hold had expired, RWS exported the dolphins while the court appeal was ongoing. On the flight to Singapore, one of the dolphins, Wen Wen, died. This brings to three the number of dolphins that have died prior to the opening of the Dolphin Island section within the park.\n\nThe Adventure Cove Waterpark () is situated in southern Singapore. The park features seven water slides, including the region’s first hydro-magnetic coaster, Riptide Rocket. It also features bay like Bluwater Bay, a wave pool and tubinthe Adventure River. The river, one of the world’s longest lazy-rivers, have 13 themed scenes of tropical jungles, grottoes, a surround aquarium and more.\n\nRides and attractions include:\n\nThe Bay Restaurant serves local favourites, Asian and Western delights. Dining is al-fresco style and situated on a terrace overlooking the Waterpark.\n\nReef ‘n Wave Wear is a one-stop destination for swim apparel, gifts and souvenirs.\n\nThe park is accessible by MRT (via the Sentosa Express), bus, car and by foot.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43667479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43667479", "title": "Massachusetts Division of Ecological Restoration", "text": "Massachusetts Division of Ecological Restoration\n\nThe Division of Ecological Restoration (DER) is a Division of the Massachusetts Department of Fish and Game within the Executive Office of Energy and Environmental Affairs. DER was created in 2009 with the merger of the Riverways and Wetlands Restoration Programs. DER coordinates ecological restoration to improve ecological condition and to restore important ecosystem services that improve the quality of life for all Massachusetts citizens.\n\nThe Riverways Program (MGL Chapter 21A Section 8) has been maintained within DER and coordinates outreach and technical assistance to support watershed conservation and protection.\n\nThe Division and partners facilitate capital-based projects including (but not limited to) dam removal and culvert replacement with the goal of restoring aquatic habitats (e.g. salt marshes)\nand ecosystems across the state. These projects support commercial and recreational fisheries and provide many other benefits such as reduced flooding, improved water quality, carbon sequestration and increased public safety.\n\nEcological restoration is a core component of the Commonwealth of Massachusetts efforts to build habitat resiliency to better allow fish and wildlife to adapt to climate change – including sea level rise, elevated water temperatures, and increased floods and periods of drought.\n\nTim Purinton currently serves as the Director of the Division of Ecological Restoration.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56603598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56603598", "title": "Mohamed Aamer", "text": "Mohamed Aamer\n\nMohamed Aamer () (born March 17, 1986) is an Egyptian actor. Early in his acting career he appeared in popular series like \"Khatem Sulaiman\". When he did that role that introduced him to a large audience was with actor Khaled Elsawi, then he starred in the well known series \"Bab Al Khalq\" as the tough guy, which seemed to be his role in most of his hit roles afterwards, then he presented TV shows and programs like \"El Zaffa 2\" and others.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9329841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9329841", "title": "Mongolian-Manchurian grassland", "text": "Mongolian-Manchurian grassland\n\nThe Mongolian-Manchurian grassland ecoregion, also known as the Mongolian-Manchurian steppe, in the temperate grassland Biome, is found in Mongolia, the Chinese Autonomous region of Inner Mongolia and northeastern China.\n\nThe Mongolian-Manchurian grassland covers an area of . This Palearctic temperate grasslands, savannas, and shrublands ecoregion of the Temperate grasslands, savannas, and shrublands Biome, forms a large crescent around the Gobi Desert, extending across central and eastern Mongolia into the eastern portion of Inner Mongolia and eastern and central Manchuria, and then southwest across the North China Plain. To the northeast and north, the Selenge-Orkhon and Daurian forest steppes form a transition zone between the grassland and the forests of Siberia to the north. On the east and southeast, the grasslands transition to temperate broadleaf and mixed forests, including the Manchurian mixed forests, Northeast China Plain deciduous forests, and Central China loess plateau mixed forests. On the southwest, the grasslands extend to the Yellow River, across which is the Ordos Plateau steppe.\n\nThe law of the steppes allowed people to take what they wished - but that ensured fighting between tribes. The history of Genghis Khan records that he believed one cannot fight a battle one cannot win. On the other hand, a determined person can accomplish great things.\n\nThe dominant flora consists of medium to tall grasslands, dominated by feather grass (\"Stipa baicalensis\", \"S. capillata\", and \"S. grandis\"), sheep's fescue (\"Festuca ovina\"), \"Aneurolepidium chinense\", \"Filifolium sibiricuman,\" and \"Cleistogenes sqarrosa\". The drier regions surrounding the Gobi host drought-tolerant grasses, together with forbs and low, spiny shrubs.\n\nThe southwestern slopes of the Greater Khingan range support pockets of broadleaf deciduous forest, of either Mongolian oak (\"Quercus mongolica\"), or a mixture of poplar (\"Populus davidiana\" and \"P. suaveolens\"), Siberian silver birch (\"Betula platyphylla\"), and willow (\"Salix rorida).\"\n\n\nThe Mongolian-Manchurian grassland faces threat from human expansion, though in most of its eastern area, it has not been altered by agriculture as much as its reaches in western Asia, or similar grasslands in North America.\n"}
{"id": "2128589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2128589", "title": "Mount Tate", "text": "Mount Tate\n\n, commonly referred to as simply Tateyama, is a mountain located in the southeastern area of Toyama Prefecture, Japan. It is one of the tallest mountains in the Hida Mountains at and, along with Mount Fuji and Mount Haku, it is one of Japan's . Tateyama is a term for the mountain consisting of three peaks: Ōnanjiyama (大汝山, 3,015m), Oyama (雄山, 3,003m), and Fuji-no-Oritateyama, (富士ノ折立, 2,999m) which run along a ridge (see photo). Tateyama is the tallest mountain in the Tateyama Mountain Range (立山連峰, Tateyama-renpō).\n\nIt was first climbed by Saeki no Ariyori during Japan's Asuka period. The area was designated the Chūbu-Sangaku National Park on December 4, 1934.\n\nThe \"kanji\" for the mountain (立山 \"Tateyama\"), which is called Tateyama in Japanese, mean \"standing 立 or outstanding 顕\" and \"mountain\", respectively. The pronunciation of \"tate\" is two syllables similar to \"tah-tei\" rather than \"gate\". The Toyama Prefectural Government uses the name Mount Tateyama as an official translation of the Japanese mountain. English-speaking locals tend to use the Japanese name Tateyama when referring to the mountain.\n\nThe mountain is composed primarily of granite and gneiss. However, located along the ridge and plateau about west of the summit is a small andesite-dacite stratovolcano. This volcano has an elevation of , and has had minor historical eruptions, the latest in 1839.\n\nTateyama is located in southeastern Toyama Prefecture. At the base of the mountain is the town of Tateyama, which is accessible by train from the prefecture's capital city, Toyama. Public transportation will take climbers and tourists as far as the Murodo Plateau Station at an elevation of , from where individuals may climb to the peak on foot. These are the only glaciers identified in Japan so far.\n\nThe mountain is the source of the following rivers, each of which flows to the Sea of Japan.\n\nLocated by the Oyama peak is Oyama Shrine, where climbers can receive a blessing and warm \"sake\" from a priest. There is also a rest area where climbers may buy food, drinks, and souvenirs. This peak is better known but it is some way from the highest point of the mountain (Onanjiyama).\n\nOn Murodo Plateau the contains Murodō Station is a shopping area and onsen bath. The onsen on Tateyama is famously known for its use of sulfur spring water for the bath, leaving a noticeable aroma that can be detected even while ascending the mountain. Visitors can also find several hiking and walking paths that take them through the beautiful valleys, and take a look at Devil's Valley (Jigokudani). With many volcanic areas in Japan by the same name, visitors are no longer able to walk within the sulfur valley due to gas-related safety concerns. Murodo is a great place to hike from mid-July to mid-November. The summer months are dappled with greenery and some leftover snow from winter, while from mid-September, visitors can enjoy bright autumn colors along the entire route.\n\nThere are charter services from Taipei, Inchon and Thailand during the high season to reach Murodo.\n\nFrom Murodo, visitors can also reach Kurobe Dam, which stands at 186 meters (610 feet), making it the tallest dam in Japan. From Murodō Station, visitors should take the Tateyama Tunnel Trolleybus (10 minutes), followed by the Tateyama Ropeway (7 minutes), and finally the Kurobe Cable Car (5 minutes). From the last stop, a 15-minute walk will take visitors to the dam.\n\nMidagahara is a flat walking area filled with flowing plains interrupted by blue ponds. Near the bus stop that returns visitors to Bijodaira back down the mountain is a slightly hidden walking path. Midagahara is accessible from Tateyama Station via the Tateyama Cable Car (7 minutes) followed by Tateyama Kurobe Alpine Route bus (about 40 minutes) that goes in the direction of Murodō Station.\n\nOn clear days, climbers can see Shōmyō Falls (the tallest waterfall in Japan) across the valley while traveling along the main road from Tateyama Station to the Murodo Plateau. For a closer look, visitors can take a bus from Tateyama Station to the Shōmyō Falls stop (about 20 minutes). From there, visitors can walk to the falls up a steady slope (about 20 minutes). There is a large bridge as well as two viewing platforms to get views of the Falls.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15440181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15440181", "title": "National Algae Association", "text": "National Algae Association\n\nThe National Algae Association is a United States non-profit algae production trade organization for commercially minded algae researchers, algae producers and equipment companies.\n\nCreated in January 2008 and headquartered in Houston, Texas, the association seeks to coordinate research and development efforts for commercial algal fuel applications. It also hosts conferences for the presentation of scientific papers on algal fuel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37523967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37523967", "title": "Novato meteorite", "text": "Novato meteorite\n\nThe Novato meteorite is an ordinary chondrite which entered the earth's atmosphere and broke up at 19:44 Pacific time on 17 October 2012. The fireball created sonic booms and fragmented. The meteoroid was about across.\n\nThe first fragment of the meteorite (N01) was recovered by Lisa Webber on 20 October after reading a story in the San Francisco Chronicle that described the NASA/CAMS meteor trajectory predicting a fall area in the North Bay. Lisa recalled hearing a sound on her roof the night of the meteor and went outside and located a 62 gram stone. Analysis of fragment N01 by Dr. Alan Rubin came back as a L6 breccia.\n\nThe second fragment was found by Brien Cook on 22 October (66 grams) and the third fragment was found by Jason Utas on 27 October (79 grams). The largest fragment recovered as of 5 November 2012 is N04 at 96 grams found by Robert Verish on 27 October. A fifth stone (N05) weighing 24 grams was found by Jason Utas on November 2. A sixth stone (N06) weighing 23.7 grams was found by the Kane family on November 11. More massive fragments may have fallen near Sonoma with any fragments possibly falling near Yountville.\n\nThis was the second significant meteorite in California in 2012, the first being the Sutter's Mill meteorite.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39287443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39287443", "title": "PROITERES", "text": "PROITERES\n\nPROITERES (Project of OIT Electric-Rocket-Engine Onboard Small Space Ship) or 大阪工業大学 電気推進ロケットエンジン搭載小型スペースシッププロジェクト in Japanese is a satellite launched by ISRO in 2012 for Osaka Institute of Technology(OIT). This small (15 kg) boxlike system, with solar panels on the hull, is the testbench for the 4.4 W Pulsed Plasma Thruster operating on the microsatellite platform. The total power budget of the satellite is 15 watt.\n\nPROITERES' secondary goals, as stated by the manufacturer, are:\n\n\nIt is equipped with 3-axis magnetic torquers and gyro-sensors for attitude control (orientation), a magnetic sensor on the boom, a solar sensor, and the CMOS camera.\n\nAs in 2013, PROITERES does not respond to any ground commands, although still broadcasting telemetry data. According to the PROITERES development team report on 17 January 2014 at JAXA annual symposium, the PROITERES had a design error resulting in the flight computer engaged in a boot loop. The root cause of the boot loop was the electromagnetic incompatibility issue, resulting in a reset signal being generated if power-up ramp rate of the flight computer is high enough.\n\nThe Osaka Institute of Technology team abandoned attempts to restore communications with PROITERES satellite and proceeded with development of the PROITERES-2 design.\n\n"}
{"id": "3556783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3556783", "title": "Parable of the Lost Sheep", "text": "Parable of the Lost Sheep\n\nIn the Gospel of Luke, the parable is as follows:\n\nThe parable shares themes of loss, searching, and rejoicing with the Parable of the Lost Coin. The lost sheep or coin represents a lost human being.\n\nAs in the analogy of the Good Shepherd, Jesus is the shepherd, thus identifying himself with the image of God as a shepherd searching for stray sheep in Ezekiel . Joel B. Green writes that \"these parables are fundamentally about God, ... their aim is to lay bare the nature of the divine response to the recovery of the lost.\"\n\nThe rejoicing of the shepherd with his friends represents God rejoicing with the angels. The image of God rejoicing at the recovery of lost sinners contrasts with the criticism of the religious leaders which prompted the parable.\n\nThe image from this parable of the shepherd placing the lost sheep on his shoulders () has been widely incorporated into depictions of the Good Shepherd. Consequently, this parable appears in art mostly as an influence on depictions of the Good Shepherd rather than as a distinct subject on its own.\n\nWhile there are innumerable references to the Good Shepherd image in Christian hymns, specific references to this parable can be recognised by a mention of the ninety-nine other sheep.\n\nPerhaps the best-known hymn describing this parable is \"The Ninety and Nine\" by Elizabeth C. Clephane (1868), which begins:\n\n<poem>\nThere were ninety and nine that safely lay\nIn the shelter of the fold.\nBut one was out on the hills away,\nFar off from the gates of gold.\nAway on the mountains wild and bare.\nAway from the tender Shepherd’s care.\nAway from the tender Shepherd’s care.</poem>\n\n"}
{"id": "29486469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29486469", "title": "Phase curve (astronomy)", "text": "Phase curve (astronomy)\n\nIn astronomy a phase curve describes the brightness of a reflecting body as a function of its phase angle. The brightness usually refers the object's absolute magnitude, which, in turn, is its apparent magnitude at a distance of one astronomical unit from the Earth and Sun. The phase angle equals the arc subtended by the observer and the sun as measured at the body.\n\nThe phase curve is useful for characterizing an object's regolith (soil) and atmosphere. It is also the basis for computing the geometrical albedo and the Bond albedo of the body. In ephemeris generation, the phase curve is used in conjunction with the distances from the object to the Sun and the Earth to calculate the apparent magnitude.\n\nThe phase curve of Mercury is very steep, which is characteristic of a body on which bare regolith (soil) is exposed to view. At phase angles exceeding 90° (crescent phase) the brightness falls off especially sharply. The shape of the phase curve indicates a mean slope on the surface of Mercury of about 16°, which is slightly smoother than that of the Moon. Approaching phase angle 0° (fully illuminated phase) the curve rises to a sharp peak. This surge in brightness is called the opposition effect because for most bodies (though not Mercury) it occurs at astronomical opposition when the body is opposite from the Sun in the sky. The width of the opposition surge for Mercury indicates that both the compaction state of the regolith and the distribution of particle sizes on the planet are similar to those on the Moon.\n\nEarly visual observations contributing to the phase curve of Mercury were obtained by G. Muller in the 1800s and by André-Louis Danjon in the mid-twentieth century. W. Irvine and colleagues used photoelectric photometry in the 1960s. Some of these early data were analyzed by G. de Vaucouleurs, summarized by D. Harris and used for predicting apparent magnitudes in the Astronomical Almanac for several decades. Highly accurate new observations covering the widest range of phase angles to date (2 to 170°) were carried out by A. Mallama, D. Wang and R. Howard using the Large Angle and Spectrometric Coronograph (LASCO) on the Solar and Heliospheric Observatory (SOHO) satellite. They also obtained new CCD observations from the ground. These data are now the major source of the phase curve used in the Astronomical Almanac for predicting apparent magnitudes.\n\nThe apparent brightness of Mercury as seen from Earth is greatest at phase angle 0° (superior conjunction with the Sun) when it can reach magnitude −2.6. At phase angles approaching 180° (inferior conjunction) the planet fades to about magnitude +5 with the exact brightness depending on the phase angle at that particular conjunction. This difference of more than 7 magnitudes corresponds to a change of over a thousand times in apparent brightness.\n\nThe relatively flat phase curve of Venus is characteristic of a cloudy planet. In contrast to Mercury where the curve is strongly peaked approaching phase angle zero (full phase) that of Venus is rounded. The wide illumination scattering angle of clouds, as opposed to the narrower scattering of regolith, causes this flattening of the phase curve. Venus exhibits a brightness surge near phase angle 170°, when it is a thin crescent, due to forward scattering of sunlight by droplets of sulfuric acid that are above the planet's cloud tops. Even beyond 170° the brightness does not decline very steeply.\n\nThe history of observation and analysis of the phase curve of Venus is similar to that of Mercury. The best set of modern observations and interpretation was reported by A. Mallama, D. Wang and R. Howard. They used the LASCO instrument on SOHO and ground-based, CCD equipment to observe the phase curve from 2 to 179°. As with Mercury, these new data are the major source of the phase curve used in the Astronomical Almanac for predicting apparent magnitudes.\n\nIn contrast to Mercury the maximal apparent brightness of Venus as seen from Earth does not occur at phase angle zero. Since the phase curve of Venus is relatively flat while its distance from the Earth can vary greatly, maximum brightness occurs when the planet is a crescent, at phase angle 125°, at which time Venus can be as bright as magnitude −4.9. Near inferior conjunction the planet typically fades to about magnitude −3 although the exact value depends on the phase angle. The typical range in apparent brightness for Venus over the course of one apparition is less than a factor of 10 or merely 1% that of Mercury.\n\nThe phase curve of the Earth has not been determined as accurately as those for Mercury and Venus because its integrated brightness is difficult to measure from the surface. Instead of direct observation, earthshine reflected from the portion of the Moon not lit by the Sun has served as a proxy. A few direct measurements of the Earth's luminosity have been obtained with the EPOXI spacecraft. While they do not cover much of the phase curve they reveal a rotational light curve caused by the transit of dark oceans and bright land masses across the hemisphere. P. Goode and colleagues at Big Bear Solar Observatory have measured the earthshine and T. Livengood of NASA analyzed the EPOXI data.\n\nEarth as seen from Venus near opposition from the Sun would be extremely bright at magnitude −6. To an observer outside the Earth's orbit on Mars our planet would appear most luminous near the time of its greatest elongation from the Sun, at about magnitude −1.5.\n\nOnly about 50° of the martian phase curve can be observed from Earth because it orbits farther from the Sun than our planet. There is an opposition surge but it is less pronounced than that of Mercury. The rotation of bright and dark surface markings across its disk and variability of its atmospheric state (including its dust storms) superimpose variations on the phase curve. R. Schmude obtained many of the Mars brightness measurements used in a comprehensive phase curve analysis performed by A. Mallama.\n\nBecause the orbit of Mars is considerably eccentric its brightness at opposition can range from magnitude −3.0 to −1.4. The minimum brightness is about magnitude +1.6 when Mars is on the opposite site of the Sun from the Earth. Rotational variations can elevate or suppress the brightness of Mars by 5% and global dust storms can increase its luminosity by 25%.\n\nThe outermost planets (Jupiter, Saturn, Uranus, and Neptune) are so distant that only small portions of their phase curves near 0° (full phase) can be evaluated from the Earth. That part of the curve is generally fairly flat, like that of Venus, for these cloudy planets.\n\nThe apparent magnitude of Jupiter ranges from −2.9 to −1.4, Saturn from −0.5 to +1.4, Uranus from +5.3 to +6.0, and Neptune from +7.8 to +8.0. Most of these variations are due to distance. However, the magnitude range for Saturn also depends on its ring system as explained below.\n\nThe brightness of the Saturn system depends on the orientation of its ring system. The rings contribute more to the overall brightness of the system when they are more inclined to the direction of illumination from the Sun and to the view of the observer. Wide open rings contribute about one magnitude of brightness to the disk alone. The icy particles that compose the rings also produce a strong opposition surge. Hubble Space Telescope and Cassini spacecraft images have been analyzed in an attempt to characterize the ring particles based on their phase curves.\n\nThe phase curve of the Moon approximately resembles that of Mercury due to the similarities of the surfaces and the lack of an atmosphere on either body. Clementine spacecraft data analyzed by J. Hillier, B. Buratti and K. Hill indicate a lunar opposition surge. The Moon's apparent magnitude at full phase is −12.7 while at quarter phase it is 21 percent as bright.\n\nThe phase curves of many natural satellites of other planets have been observed and interpreted. The icy moons often exhibit opposition brightness surges. This behavior has been used to model their surfaces.\n\nThe phase curves of many asteroids have also been observed and they too may exhibit opposition surges. Asteroids can be physically classified in this way. The effects of rotation can be very large and have to be factored in before the phase curve is computed. An example of such a study is reported by R. Baker and colleagues.\n\nPrograms for characterizing planets outside of the solar system depend largely on spectroscopy to identify atmospheric constituents and states, especially those that point to the presence of life forms or which could support life. However, brightness can be measured for very distant Earth-sized objects that are too faint for spectroscopic analysis. A. Mallama has demonstrated that phase curve analysis may be a useful tool for identifying planets that are Earth-like. Additionally, J. Bailey has pointed out that phase curve anomalies such as the brightness excess of Venus could be useful indicators of atmospheric constituents such as water, which might be essential to life in the universe.\n\nInferences about regoliths from phase curves are frequently based on Hapke parameterization. However, in a blind test M. Shepard and P. Helfenstein found no strong evidence that a particular set of Hapke parameters derived from photometric data could uniquely reveal the physical state of laboratory samples. These tests included modeling the three-term Henyey-Greenstein phase functions and the coherent backscatter opposition effect. This negative finding suggests that the radiative transfer model developed by B. Hapke may be inadequate for physical modeling based on photometry.\n"}
{"id": "52946619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52946619", "title": "Play and Aggression: A Study of Rhesus Monkeys", "text": "Play and Aggression: A Study of Rhesus Monkeys\n\nPlay and Aggression: A Study of Rhesus Monkeys is a 1978 book about play in the rhesus macaque by the anthropologist Donald Symons. The book was well-received, and Symons was credited with providing a detailed and useful discussion of his subject.\n\nSymons discussed aggressive play in the rhesus macaque, arguing that as a \"structured and coherent activity, aggressive play has a design.\" Symons provided information about sex differences in play, and behaviors that he referred to as \"playchasing\" and \"playfighting\". He suggested that \"the adaptive function of aggressive play is to practice, or rehearse, and thereby to perfect behaviors used in high-intensity intraspecific aggression and in predator avoidance.\" He critically evaluated objections to the hypothesis that specific skills are practiced in play, discussed the nature and adaptive significance of skill, reviewed the history of attempts to characterize and define play, and critically discussed the idea that the function of play is to produce novel behavior.\n\nAdditionally, Symons compared human play to that of non-human animals, attempted to explain differences in play between male and female rhesus macaques in terms of reproductive strategies, and argued that human warfare and animal fighting, as well as the developmental processes upon which they are based, are not homologous.\n\n\"Play and Aggression\" was reviewed by James Loy in the \"American Journal of Physical Anthropology\", Susan C. Wilson in \"Aggressive Behavior\", and John D. Baldwin in \"American Anthropologist\". Wilson reviewed the book positively, writing that it could be read for pleasure and that Symons convincingly argued that the \"play-fighting of young rhesus monkeys is \"designed\" as practice for certain skills used by adults during fights.\" However, Wilson criticized Symons for making claims about play in general based only on the example of play in the rhesus macaque. Baldwin credited Symons with providing a \"detailed description of play in rhesus monkeys\", and suggested that \"many readers will find Symons’ description of rhesus play in a seminatural environment to be very useful\", but added that many might conclude that Symons \"overemphasizes the practice-for-violence hypothesis\" and is \"too eager to reject the other functions of play, such as general learning, practice for other activities, and innovation.\"\n\nIn 1980, the psychologists Martin Daly and Margo Wilson wrote in \"The Sciences\" that Symons' \"well-received\" monograph is the work he is best known for.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31349263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31349263", "title": "Radioflash", "text": "Radioflash\n\nRadioflash is a term used (chiefly in sources from the United Kingdom) in early literature on the phenomena now known more widely as nuclear electromagnetic pulse, or EMP. The term originated in the early 1950s, primarily associated with the \"click\" typically heard on radio receivers when a nuclear bomb was detonated. It was later discovered that the phenomena was one part of the more wide-ranging set of effects resulting from EMPs after the detonation of nuclear and certain chemical weapons.\n\nInstrumentation failures observed during nuclear weapons testing between 1951 and 1953 were mentioned in declassified military literature as attributed to \"radiated radioflash\". A similar term was first used in the Soviet Union in an early theoretical publication (which contained some errors and was later corrected) on the effects of a nuclear explosion.\n\nThe term has also been used in high-energy physics in the description of a type of collective ion acceleration that would take place during intense solar flares.\n\n"}
{"id": "15698103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15698103", "title": "Saturated-surface-dry", "text": "Saturated-surface-dry\n\nSaturated surface dry (SSD) is defined as the condition of an aggregate in which the surfaces of the particles are \"dry\" (\"i.e.\", surface adsorption would no longer take place), but the inter-particle voids are saturated with water. In this condition aggregates will not affect the free water content of a composite material.\n\nThe water adsorption by mass (A)) is defined in terms of the mass of saturated-surface-dry (M) sample and the mass of oven dried test sample (M) by\n\nformula_1\n\n\n3- Neville, A. M. “Properties of Concrete”, 4th & Final ed., Longman, Malaysia, 1995 rep. 1996, 844 pp.\n<br>\n4 - Field usage information from a manufacturer - https://blog.kryton.com/2012/08/what-ssd/ \n"}
{"id": "3238601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3238601", "title": "Secondary electrons", "text": "Secondary electrons\n\nSecondary electrons are electrons generated as ionization products. They are called 'secondary' because they are generated by other radiation (the \"primary\" radiation). This radiation can be in the form of ions, electrons, or photons with sufficiently high energy, i.e. exceeding the ionization potential. Photoelectrons can be considered an example of secondary electrons where the primary radiation are photons; in some discussions photoelectrons with higher energy (>50 eV) are still considered \"primary\" while the electrons freed by the photoelectrons are \"secondary\".\n\nSecondary electrons are also the main means of viewing images in the scanning electron microscope (SEM). The range of secondary electrons depends on the energy. Plotting the inelastic mean free path as a function of energy often shows characteristics of the \"universal curve\" familiar to electron spectroscopists and surface analysts. This distance is on the order of a few nanometers in metals and tens of nanometers in insulators. This small distance allows such fine resolution to be achieved in the SEM.\n\nFor SiO, for a primary electron energy of 100 eV, the secondary electron range is up to 20 nm from the point of incidence.\n\n"}
{"id": "21108765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21108765", "title": "Serge Testa", "text": "Serge Testa\n\nSerge Testa is an Australian yachtsman who holds the world record for the circumnavigation in the smallest boat, completing the voyage in 1987. His boat, the \"Acrohc Australis\", was designed so that all controls could be operated from inside enabling him to close the hatch in foul weather. The boat is currently on display at the Queensland Maritime Museum in South Bank.\n\n"}
{"id": "397152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=397152", "title": "Sudd", "text": "Sudd\n\nThe Sudd (' or ') is a vast swamp in South Sudan, formed by the White Nile's \"Baḥr al-Jabal\" section. The Arabic word ' is derived from ' (), meaning \"barrier\" or \"obstruction\". The term \"the sudd\" has come to refer to any large solid floating vegetation island or mat. The area which the swamp covers is one of the world's largest wetlands and the largest freshwater wetland in the Nile basin.\n\nFor many years the swamp, and especially its thicket of vegetation, proved an impenetrable barrier to navigation along the Nile. In AD 61, a party of Roman soldiers sent by the Emperor Nero proceeded up the White Nile but were not able to get beyond the Sudd, which marked the limit of Roman penetration into equatorial Africa. For the same reasons in later times the search for the source of the Nile was particularly difficult; it eventually involved overland expeditions from the central African coast, so as to avoid having to travel through the Sudd.\n\nThe Sudd stretches from Mongalla to just outside the Sobat confluence with the White Nile just upstream of Malakal as well as westwards along the Bahr el Ghazal. The shallow and flat inland delta lies between 5.5 and 9.5 degrees latitude North and covers an area of south to north and east to west between Mongalla in the south and Malakal in the north.\n\nIts size is highly variable, averaging over . During the wet season it may extend to over comprising 13% of the country, depending on the inflowing waters, with the discharge from Lake Victoria being the main control factor of flood levels and area inundation. Since the Sudd area consists of various meandering channels, lagoons, reed and papyrus fields and loses half of its inflowing water through evapotranspiration in the permanent and seasonal floodplains, the complex hydrology has many primary and secondary effects. A major feature of the area, even if not completed and not functional, is the Jonglei Canal, planned to bypass waters from the Sudd to avoid evaporation losses and increase the amount of water discharged at the outlet of the Sudd.\n\nFrom 1961 to 1963, a great increase in the inundated area occurred when the level of Lake Victoria rose and the outflow increased. The total area of the Sudd is related to the amount of water reaching Bor from Albert Nile and from torrents or seasonal watercourses that can add substantial amounts to the flow in the upstream end of the Sudd. During the 1960s increase in Lake Victoria discharge, where flows at Mongalla roughly doubled, the flows at Malakal at the northern end of the swamps increased by 1.5 times the previous average flow. As a consequence of these high flows, the areas of permanent swamp and seasonal floodplains have, taken together, increased to 2.5 times their former size. The swamps have increased the most, and the seasonal floodplain is 1.5 times its previous size.\n\nFrom the southern inflow of the Bahr al Jabal (\"Sea of the Mountain\") at Mongalla, the defined riverbed successively widens into a floodplain, where the waters flow in meandering river stretches and various channels and lagoons throughout the dry season. With rising water levels it expands over the semi-flooded grasslands during the flood season.\n\nSlightly downstream of Bor, the Bahr el Zeraf (\"Sea of the Giraffes\") river branches off the Bahr al Jabal to the east, diverting part of the flow, and again joins the Bahr al Jabal just before reaching Malakal. During the course of its flow, the Bahr al Jabal passes Lake No, where the Bahr el Ghazal (\"Sea of the Gazelles\") connects to the Bahr al Jabal, contributing an inflow with seasonal variation. At Malakal, the Sobat River joins into the system. The combined flows then stream to the north as the White Nile in a defined bed, joining with the Blue Nile waters at Khartoum to form the main Nile.\n\nSudd was designated as a Ramsar Wetland of International Importance on 5 June 2006. An area of was designated.\n\nHydrologically the Sudd plays an important role in storing floodwaters and trapping sediments from the Bahr al Jabal. Roughly 55 percent of water entering the area is lost to evaporation. Water levels fluctuate by up to 1.5 metres, depending on the intensity of seasonal flooding.\n\nThe region receives less rainfall (typically between 55 and 65 centimetres per year) than neighbouring areas at the same latitude. Orographic lifting on the eastern and western sides of the Sudd contribute to that condition.\n\nThe morphology of the area is defined by the channel and lagoon system of the permanent Sudd swamps, the adjacent flood plains and the surrounding flat terrain. The Bahr al Jabal runs to the north-northwest and therefore in an angle to the gradient of the flood plain, which slopes down to the north, while north of Juba the river flows in an incised trough. The banks of this trough decrease in height from south to north with the Bahr al Jabal approaching Bor and ending in the Sudd flood plain just north of Bor on the eastern bank and towards Shambe on the western bank. In the southern part, the river meanders from side to side in the restraining trough in one or more channels, but further north the swamp is not limited by higher ground and the system of river channels becomes increasingly complex. The characteristics of the river with its network of channels and lagoons are distinguishable in satellite imagery and digital elevation models.\n\nThe geology of the area is defined by heavy clay soils, highly impermeable with a top layer of \"black cotton\" vertisol of approximately 500 mm on average. Sandy soils are found only at depths of approximately and below, as determined by well drilling profiles (Petersen, 2008). This indicates a very limited groundwater influence on the area's hydrology.\n\nDinka, Nuer and Shilluk pastoralists use the Sudd and the surrounding areas extensively. Livestock and rain-fed agriculture are the dominant means of support for the largely rural population for which the seasonal flooded grasslands along the Sudd provides valuable grazing lands.\n\nVegetation cover of the area can generally be classified in five categories which depend on the elevation of the area above river flood level: the lakes and rivers themselves, the floating plant life of the swamp, river-flooded grasslands (Toic), rain-flooded grasslands, and wooded grasslands on the fringes. Grassland and woodland areas have been cultivated by local populations.\n\nThe density of the grasslands along the Sudd changes with the season, with tall grass in the rainy season and short dry grass in the dry season, when frequent fires also occur. The fluvial area is mostly overgrown with vegetation, with some main and side channels as well as lagoons of open water. The vegetation distribution is described in further detail in Sutcliffe (1974) and Petersen (2007). The main species are:\n\n\nThe first three species are anchored so their distribution is limited to the depth of flooding. For the last species their root system needs to be permanently in water or saturated soil, which is a good indicator of flood patterns. \"P. communis\", \"E. pyramidalis\" and \"O. barthii\" for example dominate only in areas where the depth of flooding does not exceed 130 cm over a period of ten years or 118 cm for one month in the year.\n\nFloating vegetation of \"C. papyrus\" had caused blockages in the Sudd swamps on a number of occasions between 1879 and 1900, when the plants were torn out by increased flooding. \"C. papyrus\" needs saturated conditions and can tolerate flooding that is not more than 150 cm deep.\n\nWhen the matted vegetation breaks free of its moorings, it forms floating islands of vegetation up to 30 km in length. Such islands, in varying stages of decomposition, eventually break up.\n\nThe sluggish waters are host to a large population of mosquitoes and parasites that cause waterborne diseases.\n\nThe early explorers searching for the source of the Nile experienced considerable difficulties, sometimes taking months to get through the Sudd. In his 1972 book \"The White Nile\", Alan Moorehead says of the Sudd, \"there is no more formidable swamp in the world\".\n\nThe Sudd provides food and water to large populations of migrating birds; over 400 species of bird are found here, including shoebills, great white pelicans, and black crowned cranes. As the surrounding landscape is a large swath of dry Sahel across Africa, the swamp is also a haven for migrating animals, especially antelopes, such as the endangered Nile lechwe, tiang, reedbuck, and the world's largest population of white-eared kob, estimated at around 1.2 million—an animal population comparable to Tanzania's better-known Serengeti National Park. The shallow water is frequented by crocodiles and hippopotamuses. In more upland areas the Sudd was known as an historic habitat for the endangered painted hunting dog, \"Lycaon pictus\", which however may have been exterminated in the region.\n\nThe long-running civil war in Southern Sudan seriously disrupted conservation efforts in the Sudd, especially as the widespread availability of weapons has encouraged wildlife poaching, including of elephants. There are three game reserves: Zeraf Island between the Zeraf River and the Nile, Shambe Reserve, and Mongalla Game Reserve.\n\nBecause of the Sudd swamp, the water from the southwestern tributaries (the Bahr el Ghazal system) for all practical purposes does not reach the main river and is lost through evaporation and transpiration.\n\nSir William Garstin, Undersecretary of State of Public Works of Egypt, created the first detailed proposal for digging a canal east of the Sudd in 1907. By bypassing the swamps, evaporation of the Nile's water would vastly decrease, allowing an increase in the area of cultivatable land in Egypt by .\n\nHydrogeologists in the 1930s proposed digging a canal east of the Sudd to divert water from the Bahr al Jabal above the Sudd to a point farther down the White Nile, bypassing the swamps and carrying the White Nile's water directly to the main channel of the river.\n\nThe Jonglei canal scheme was first studied by the government of Egypt in 1946 and plans were developed in 1954-59. Construction work on the canal began in 1978 but the outbreak of political instability in Sudan has held up work for many years. By 1984 when the Southern Sudanese rebels (SPLA) brought the works to a halt, 240 km of the canal of a total of 360 km had been excavated. The rusting remains of the giant German-built excavation machine—variously nicknamed either \"Sarah\" or \"Lucy\"—are visible on a Google Earth image at the south end of the canal. It was destroyed by a missile. When peace was restored in 2000, speculation grew about a restart of the project. However, on 21 February 2008, the Sudanese government said the revival of the project was not a priority. Nevertheless, in 2008, Sudan and Egypt agreed to restart the project and finish the canal in 24 years. South Sudan gained independence in 2011.\n\nIt is estimated that the Jonglei canal project would produce 3.5-4.8 x 10 m of water per year (equal to a mean annual discharge of 110–152 m/s (3,883-5,368 ft/s), an increase of around five to seven per cent of Egypt's current water supply. The canal's benefits would be shared by Egypt and Sudan, with the expected damage falling on South Sudan. The complex environmental and social issues involved, including the collapse of fisheries, drying of grazing lands, a drop of groundwater levels, and a reduction of rainfall in the region may limit the scope of the project in practical terms. The draining of the Sudd is likely to have environmental effects comparable to the drying of Lake Chad or the draining of the Aral Sea.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14540333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14540333", "title": "Suites à Buffon", "text": "Suites à Buffon\n\nLes Suites à Buffon is a French nineteenth-century scientific publication\n\nLes \"Suites à Buffon\" carries the complete title \"Suites à Buffon formant avec les œuvres de cet auteur un cours complet d'histoire naturelle embrassant les trois règnes de la nature, confié aux plus célèbres naturalistes et habiles écrivains\"\n(Sequels to Buffon Constituting a Complete Course of Natural History Encompassing the Three Reigns of Nature, Entrusted to the Most Famous Naturalists and to Skillful Writers). The three reigns or kingdoms are Botany, Zoology and Geology.\nThis work constitutes a vast realization in 89 volumes edited and published by the Parisian editor Nicolas Roret. Published between 1834 and 1890, it appears in many forms and is often extracted, sometimes under the titles \"Nouvelles Suites à Buffon\", \"Suites à Buffon\", and \"Nouvelles Suites à Buffon\".\n\nAn example of a \"Suites à Buffon\" title is Louis Augustin Guillaume Bosc, \"Histoire Naturelle des Coquilles,contenant leur description, les moeurs des animaux qui les habitant et leurs usages\" in 5 vols. 2nd ed. Paris, Verdière, 1824. Several new species of shells are described in this rather rare work which included a long \"table alphabétique de toutes les espèces mentionnées dans ces ouvrages avec les synonymes de Lamarck\". It is not clear from the title that this is part of \"Suites à Buffon\", but it is, though not published by Roret and of a specialised nature.\n\nSometimes \"Suites de Buffon\"\n"}
{"id": "41822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41822", "title": "Troposphere", "text": "Troposphere\n\nThe troposphere is the lowest layer of Earth's atmosphere, and is also where nearly all weather conditions take place. It contains approximately 75% of the atmosphere's mass and 99% of the total mass of water vapor and aerosols. The average height of the troposphere are in the tropics, in the middle latitudes, and in the polar regions in winter.\n\nThe lowest part of the troposphere, where friction with the Earth's surface influences air flow, is the planetary boundary layer. This layer is typically a few hundred meters to deep depending on the landform and time of day. Atop the troposphere is the tropopause, which is the border between the troposphere and stratosphere. The tropopause is an inversion layer, where the air temperature ceases to decrease with height and remains constant through its thickness.\n\nThe word \"troposphere\" is derived from the Greek \"tropos\" (meaning \"turn, turn toward, change\") and \"sphere\" (as in the Earth), reflecting the fact that rotational turbulent mixing plays an important role in the troposphere's structure and behaviour. Most of the phenomena associated with day-to-day weather occur in the troposphere.\n\nBy volume, dry air contains 78.08% nitrogen, 20.95% oxygen, 0.93% argon, 0.04% carbon dioxide, and small amounts of other gases. Air also contains a variable amount of water vapor. Except for the water vapor content, the composition of the troposphere is essentially uniform. The source of water vapor is at the Earth's surface through the process of evaporation. The temperature of the troposphere decreases with altitude. And, saturation vapor pressure decreases strongly as temperature drops. Hence, the amount of water vapor that can exist in the atmosphere decreases strongly with altitude and the proportion of water vapor is normally greatest near the surface of the Earth.\n\nThe pressure of the atmosphere is maximum at sea level and decreases with altitude. This is because the atmosphere is very nearly in hydrostatic equilibrium so that the pressure is equal to the weight of air above a given point. The change in pressure with altitude can be equated to the density with the hydrostatic equation\n\nwhere:\n\nSince temperature in principle also depends on altitude, one needs a second equation to determine the pressure as a function of altitude as discussed in the next section.\n\nThe temperature of the troposphere generally decreases as altitude increases. The rate at which the temperature decreases, formula_2, is called the environmental lapse rate (ELR). \nThe ELR is nothing more than the difference in temperature between the surface and the tropopause divided by the height. The ELR assumes that the air is perfectly still, i.e. that there is no mixing of the layers of air from vertical convection, nor winds that would create turbulence and hence mixing of the layers of air. The reason for this temperature difference is that the ground absorbs most of the sun's energy, which then heats the lower levels of the atmosphere with which it is in contact. Meanwhile, the radiation of heat at the top of the atmosphere results in the cooling of that part of the atmosphere.\n\nThe ELR assumes the atmosphere is still, but as air is heated it becomes buoyant and rises. The dry adiabatic lapse rate accounts for the effect of the expansion of dry air as it rises in the atmosphere and wet adiabatic lapse rates includes the effect of the condensation of water vapor on the lapse rate.\n\nWhen a parcel of air rises, it expands, because the pressure is lower at higher altitudes. As the air parcel expands, it pushes the surrounding air outward, transferring energy in the form of work from that parcel to the atmosphere. As energy transfer to a parcel of air by way of heat is very slow, it is assumed to not exchange energy by way of heat with the environment. Such a process is called an adiabatic process (no energy transfer by way of heat). Since the rising parcel of air is losing energy as it does work on the surrounding atmosphere and no energy is transferred into it as heat from the atmosphere to make up for the loss, the parcel of air is losing energy, which manifests itself as a decrease in the temperature of the air parcel. The reverse, of course, will be true for a parcel of air that is sinking and is being compressed.\n\nSince the process of compression and expansion of an air parcel can be considered reversible and no energy is transferred into or out of the parcel, such a process is considered isentropic, meaning that there is no change in entropy as the air parcel rises and falls, formula_3. Since the heat exchanged formula_4 is related to the entropy change formula_5 by formula_6, the equation governing the temperature as a function of height for a thoroughly mixed atmosphere is \nwhere \"S\" is the entropy. The above equation states that the entropy of the atmosphere does not change with height. The rate at which temperature decreases with height under such conditions is called the adiabatic lapse rate.\n\nFor \"dry\" air, which is approximately an ideal gas, we can proceed further. The adiabatic equation for an ideal gas is \nwhere formula_9 is the heat capacity ratio (formula_9=7/5, for air). Combining with the equation for the pressure, one arrives at the dry adiabatic lapse rate,\nIf the air contains water vapor, then cooling of the air can cause the water to condense, and the behavior is no longer that of an ideal gas. If the air is at the saturated vapor pressure, then the rate at which temperature drops with height is called the saturated adiabatic lapse rate. More generally, the actual rate at which the temperature drops with altitude is called the environmental lapse rate. \nIn the troposphere, the average environmental lapse rate is a drop of about 6.5 °C for every 1 km (1,000 meters) in increased height.\n\nThe environmental lapse rate (the actual rate at which temperature drops with height, formula_12) is not usually equal to the adiabatic lapse rate (or correspondingly, formula_13). If the upper air is warmer than predicted by the adiabatic lapse rate (formula_14), then when a parcel of air rises and expands, it will arrive at the new height at a lower temperature than its surroundings. In this case, the air parcel is denser than its surroundings, so it sinks back to its original height, and the air is stable against being lifted. If, on the contrary, the upper air is cooler than predicted by the adiabatic lapse rate, then when the air parcel rises to its new height it will have a higher temperature and a lower density than its surroundings, and will continue to accelerate upward.\n\nThe troposphere is heated from below by latent heat, longwave radiation, and sensible heat. Surplus heating and vertical expansion of the troposphere occurs in the tropics. At middle latitudes, tropospheric temperatures decrease from an average of 15 °C at sea level to about −55 °C at the tropopause. At the poles, tropospheric temperature only decreases from an average of 0 °C at sea level to about −45 °C at the tropopause. At the equator, tropospheric temperatures decrease from an average of 20 °C at sea level to about −70 to −75 °C at the tropopause. The troposphere is thinner at the poles and thicker at the equator. The average thickness of the tropical tropopause is roughly 7 kilometers greater than the average tropopause thickness at the poles.\n\nThe tropopause is the boundary region between the troposphere and the stratosphere.\n\nMeasuring the temperature change with height through the troposphere and the stratosphere identifies the location of the tropopause. In the troposphere, temperature decreases with altitude. In the stratosphere, however, the temperature remains constant for a while and then increases with altitude. This coldest layer of the atmosphere, where the lapse rate changes from positive (in the troposphere) to negative (in the stratosphere), is defined as the tropopause. Thus, the tropopause is an inversion layer, and there is little mixing between the two layers of the atmosphere.\n\nThe flow of the atmosphere generally moves in a west to east direction. This, however, can often become interrupted, creating a more north to south or south to north flow. These scenarios are often described in meteorology as zonal or meridional. These terms, however, tend to be used in reference to localised areas of atmosphere (at a synoptic scale). A fuller explanation of the flow of atmosphere around the Earth as a whole can be found in the three-cell model.\n\nA zonal flow regime is the meteorological term meaning that the general flow pattern is west to east along the Earth's latitude lines, with weak shortwaves embedded in the flow. The use of the word \"zone\" refers to the flow being along the Earth's latitudinal \"zones\". This pattern can buckle and thus become a meridional flow.\n\nWhen the zonal flow buckles, the atmosphere can flow in a more longitudinal (or meridional) direction, and thus the term \"meridional flow\" arises. Meridional flow patterns feature strong, amplified troughs of low pressure and ridges of high pressure, with more north-south flow in the general pattern than west-to-east flow.\n\nThe three cells model of the atmosphere attempts to describe the actual flow of the Earth's atmosphere as a whole. It divides the Earth into the tropical (Hadley cell), mid latitude (Ferrel cell), and polar (polar cell) regions, to describe energy flow and global atmospheric circulation (mass flow). Its fundamental principle is that of balance – the energy that the Earth absorbs from the sun each year is equal to that which it loses to space by radiation. This overall Earth energy balance, however, does not apply in each latitude due to the varying strength of the sun in each \"cell\" as a result of the tilt of the Earth's axis in relation to its orbit. The result is a circulation of the atmosphere that transports warm air poleward from the tropics and cold air equatorward from the poles. The effect of the three cells is the tendency to even out the heat and moisture in the Earth's atmosphere around the planet.\n\nForcing is a term used by meteorologists to describe the situation where a change or an event in one part of the atmosphere causes a strengthening change in another part of the atmosphere. It is usually used to describe connections between upper, middle or lower levels (such as upper-level divergence causing lower level convergence in cyclone formation), but also be to describe such connections over lateral distance rather than height alone. In some respects, teleconnections could be considered a type of forcing.\n\nAn area of convergence is one in which the total mass of air is increasing with time, resulting in an increase in pressure at locations below the convergence level (recall that atmospheric pressure is just the total weight of air above a given point). Divergence is the opposite of convergence – an area where the total mass of air is decreasing with time, resulting in falling pressure in regions below the area of divergence. Where divergence is occurring in the upper atmosphere, there will be air coming in to try to balance the net loss of mass (this is called the principle of mass conservation), and there is a resulting upward motion (positive vertical velocity). Another way to state this is to say that regions of upper air divergence are conducive to lower level convergence, cyclone formation, and positive vertical velocity. Therefore, identifying regions of upper air divergence is an important step in forecasting the formation of a surface low pressure area.\n\n"}
{"id": "52739115", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52739115", "title": "WHO-CHOICE", "text": "WHO-CHOICE\n\nWHO-CHOICE (\"CHO\"osing \"I\"nterventions that are \"C\"ost-\"E\"ffective) is an initiative started by the World Health Organization in 1998 to help countries choose their healthcare priorities. It is an example of priority-setting in global health. It was one of the earliest projects to perform sectoral cost-effectiveness analyses (i.e., cost-effectiveness analyses that compare a wide range of types of spending within a sector and prioritize holistically) on a global scale. Findings from WHO-CHOICE have shaped the World Health Report of 2002, been published in the \"British Medical Journal\" in 2012, and been cited by charity evaluators and academics alongside DCP2 and the Copenhagen Consensus.\n\nIn May 1998, Gro Harlem Brundtland succeeded Hiroshi Nakajima as the Director-General of the World Health Organization, and the organization was significantly restructuring as a result of the leadership change. With her election, a new program, called Choosing Interventions: Effectiveness Quality, Costs, Gender and Ethics, was launched as part of the Global Programme for Evidence on Health and Policy. The name of the program would later morph into WHO-CHOICE.\n\nWHO-CHOICE was used in the World Health Report of 2002, specifically informing the recommendations in Chapter 5.\n\nResults based on WHO-CHOICE were published in a series of papers in the \"British Medical Journal\" in 2012.\n\nPrior to WHO-CHOICE, most projects that did cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA) in the real world focused on evaluating a single program or intervention, comparing it against either a fixed price threshold or an existing array of interventions with predetermined cost-effectiveness taken from the literature. However, theoretical literature on CEAs considered a broader kind of CEA called \"sectoral CEA\" where all programs and interventions available within a sector would be compared and cost-effectiveness priorities would be determined. Prior to WHO-CHOICE, there were only a few examples of practical implementation of sectoral CEAs: the Oregon Health Services Commission (tasked with prioritizing for Medicaid in the United States), the World Bank Health Sectors Priorities Review, and the Harvard Life Saving Project. Of these, only the World Bank's work had attempted a global comparison. In a 2000 paper discussing the WHO-CHOICE approach, Murray et al. identified four challenges to a wider application of sectoral CEA:\n\n\nWHO-CHOICE identified a key trade-off in sectoral CEA based on the granularity of the region at which the CEA was performed. At one extreme, sectoral CEA could be performed at the level of individual cities or districts, incorporating information about local resources, costs, and current context. At the other extreme, a single CEA could be carried out globally. Highly localized sectoral CEA would be very expensive and difficult to perform whereas global CEA would fail to take into account the huge differences between the epidemiology and resource structure of regions.\n\nWHO-CHOICE's solution was to use an intermediate level of granularity, that it called \"generalized CEA\" (GCEA). It argued that at this intermediate level, it could conduct CEAs more efficiently while also allowing local policymakers and agents to use its findings and further adapt them to local contexts.\n\nWHO-CHOICE has divided the world into 14 epidemiological subregions, and publishes its findings by subregion, as shown below. Each subregion is a combination of a region (a geographical region of the world) and a mortality stratum (a stratum describing the level and nature of mortality). WHO-CHOICE chose to put each country in a single mortality stratum and a single region (and therefore a single subregion) even if mortality varies widely within the country.\n\n\nAlthough the 6 regions and 5 mortality strata could give a theoretical maximum of 6 X 5 = 30 subregions, only 14 subregions occur in practice because not every region has countries with all mortality strata.\n\nBelow is the classification into subregions as of 2003.\n\nThe CEA done by WHO-CHOICE differed from the standard ICM-CEA in two important ways:\n\n\nThe results that WHO-CHOICE reports are not intended to be applied literally when choosing policies or selecting interventions. This is for a few reasons:\n\n\nRather, the results are intended to be used as a starting point in classifying interventions as highly cost-effective, moderately cost-effective, and cost-ineffective. With this classification in place, a more detailed and localized analysis can be done for the highly cost-effective interventions, incorporating concerns such as poverty, equity, implementation capacity, and feasibility.\n\nWHO-CHOICE lists the following tools that it uses and can provide to researchers interested in using WHO-CHOICE:\n\n\nThis section focuses on results published by the WHO-CHOICE team or other material published by the World Health Organization relying on WHO-CHOICE data. For examples of use of WHO-CHOICE data by others, see the Reception section.\n\nThe World Health Report of 2002 relied on WHO-CHOICE. Specifically, it used the division of the world into epidemiological subregions in its analysis of health risks, and used recommendations generated by WHO-CHOICE in Chapter 5, \"Some Strategies to Reduce Risk\". Here are the key results in the report based on WHO-CHOICE:\n\nThe WHO-CHOICE database was one of the sources of data used for the 2009 World Health Organization costing report \"Constraints to Scaling Up the Health Millennium Development Goals: Costing and Financial Gap Analysis. Background Document for the Taskforce on Innovative International Financing and Health Systems\" (published 2010). The report was a costing analysis of health system strengthening in order to meet the Millennium Development Goals by 2015, and relied on WHO-CHOICE data and published WHO-CHOICE work for some specific cost estimates. It is cited on the WHO-CHOICE website as an example of the use of WHO-CHOICE to generate Global Price Tags.\n\nIn 2012, a number of papers were published in the \"British Medical Journal\" disseminating results from WHO-CHOICE. A discussion of the findings on the Giving What We Can blog summarized the results as follows: \"countries should try to expand high-priority interventions to near-universal coverage before considering second-priority interventions on a limited scale.\" Below are the main results:\n\nCharity evaluator GiveWell has referenced WHO-CHOICE estimates alongside estimates from the Disease Control Priorities Project's DCP2 report, the Copenhagen Consensus, and \"The Lancet\" series on nutrition.\n\nGiving What We Can, a charity evaluator and advocate of more effective giving, reviewed WHO-CHOICE's results, and emphasized that these results \"should perhaps not be taken from the individual donor’s perspective, but rather from the perspective of someone who can influence the health system of that country.\" GWWC has also referenced WHO-CHOICE and compared it with DCP2 in some of its coverage of diseases.\n\nWHO-CHOICE has also been cited alongside DCP2 and the Copenhagen Consensus in general discussions of cost-effectiveness analyses.\n\n"}
