{"id": "4344171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4344171", "title": "Al Ittihad Alexandria Club", "text": "Al Ittihad Alexandria Club\n\nAl Ittihad Alexandria Club (), simply known as Al Ittihad, is an Egyptian football club that plays in the Egyptian Premier League. The team was founded in 1914 in Alexandria.\nIt has the third largest number of fans in Egypt, after Al Ahly and Zamalek. The club is the first club that rushed to endorse the idea of founding the Egyptian Football Association in 1921 which contributed to increased popularity in Alexandria.\n\n\n\n\nNotes:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5387296", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5387296", "title": "Bangulzai tribe", "text": "Bangulzai tribe\n\nThe Bangulzai () is a Brahui tribe located in Balochistan province of Pakistan.\n\nThe Sardar or the chief of the tribe, Sardar Kamal Khan Bangulzai, became a provincial minister of Balochistan and federal Pakistan cabinets.\n"}
{"id": "33612160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33612160", "title": "Beeke language", "text": "Beeke language\n\nBeeke is a Bantu language of uncertain affiliation. Guthrie assigned to the Nyali cluster. However, \"Ethnologue\" suggests that it may be a divergent form of Bali. It is 65% cognate with Bali, but 38% with the Nyali language Ndaka.\n"}
{"id": "47487143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47487143", "title": "Bengali Buddhists", "text": "Bengali Buddhists\n\nBengali Buddhists, (), are Buddhists of Bengali ethnic and linguistic identity. Bengali Buddhists constitute 0.4% of the population in Bangladesh.\n\nBuddhism has a rich ancient heritage in the Bengal. The region was a bastion of the ancient Buddhist Mauryan and Palan empires, when the Mahayana and Vajrayana schools flourished. South-eastern Bengal was ruled by the medieval Buddhist Kingdom of Mrauk U during the 16th and 17th centuries. The British Raj influenced the emergence of modern community.\n\nToday, Bengali Buddhists are followers of orthodox Therevada Buddhism.\n\nAncient Bengal was a center of Buddhist learning and art. Buddhist artifacts have been excavated throughout the region, particularly in Wari-Bateshwar, Chandraketugarh, Paharpur, Mahasthangarh and Mainamati. The Mauryan Empire led by Ashoka extended its suzerainty to the region in the 2nd century BCE. Ashoka played an important role in propagating Buddhism in his own empire and the wider ancient world. Mauryan rule was succeeded by the Buddhist Samatata maritime kingdom in Bengal.\n\nSuccessive Buddhist powers tussled for dominance with Hindu and Jain kings in the Indian subcontinent. The Bengali Buddhist Pala Empire arose during the 8th century. Founded by the election of Buddhist chieftain Gopala circa 750 CE, the empire grew into one of the largest imperial powers in classical Asia. The Palas promoted Mahayana and Tantric Buddhism. They patronized the creation of many outstanding temples, monasteries and works of art. The Palas enjoyed strong relations with the Abbasid Caliphate, the Tibetan Empire and the Srivijaya Empire. The empire reached its peak under Dharmapala and Devapala. They reigned for four centuries until being replaced by the resurgent Hindu Sena dynasty. Brahmin persecution played a key role in the decline of Buddhism in India; followed by later Muslim conquest.\n\nRemnants of Buddhist communities continued to flourish in southeastern Bengal. The Buddhist Kingdom of Mrauk U ruled the region during the 16th and 17th centuries.\n\nBy the late 18th-century, the region was ceded to the British Empire. During this period, a revival movement developed that led to the development of two orders of Theravada monks, the Sangharaj Nikaya and the Mahasthabir Nikaya.\n\nBengali Buddhists benefited from Western education during the British Raj in the early-20th century. Professor Benimadhab Barua (1888-1948) was the first Asian to receive a Doctor of Letters degree from the University of London. Bengali Buddhist activists and guerrillas were also active in the Bangladesh Liberation War.\n\nBangladesh is home to the predominant section of the Bengali Buddhist community. They usually enjoy a high literacy rate and are found in the Bangladeshi middle class, particularly in the port city of Chittagong. Many members of community reside in Dhaka, Cox's Bazar and Comilla. The eastern Indian state capitals of Agartala and Kolkata also have significant Bengali Buddhist communities.\n\nBuddha's Birthday is a public holiday in Bangladesh.\n\nBengali Buddhists also celebrate the festival of Madhu Purnima.\n\nBipradash Barua is a Bangladeshi author and novelist.\n\nPartha Barua is one of the pioneers of Bangladeshi rock.\n\n"}
{"id": "1024613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1024613", "title": "Bulgarian Muslims", "text": "Bulgarian Muslims\n\nThe Bulgarian Muslims or Muslim Bulgarians (, \"Bǎlgari-mohamedani\", as of recently also Българи-мюсюлмани, \"Bǎlgari-mjusjulmani\", locally called \"pomak\", \"ahryan\", \"poganets\", \"marvak\", or \"poturnak\") are Bulgarians of Islamic faith. They are generally thought to be the descendents of the local Slavs who converted to Islam during Ottoman rule. Most scholars have agreed that the Bulgarian Muslims are a \"religious group of Bulgarian Slavs who speak Bulgarian as their mother tongue and do not understand Turkish, but whose religion and customs are Islamic\". Bulgarian Muslims live mostly in the Rhodopes – Smolyan Province, the southern part of the Pazardzhik and Kardzhali Provinces and the eastern part of the Blagoevgrad Province in Southern Bulgaria. They also live in a group of villages in the Lovech Province in Northern Bulgaria. The name \"Pomak\" is pejorative in Bulgarian and is resented by most members of the community, especially by non-practising Muslims. The name adopted and used instead of Pomak is \"Bulgarian Muslims\".\n\nBulgarian Muslims do not represent a homogenous community and have a multitude of ethnic and religious identities. A clear majority of them (127,350 according to the latest census in 2001) declare themselves to be ethnic Bulgarians of Islamic faith. However, a significant percentage, in particular in the Central and Eastern Rhodopes (the Smolyan and Kardzhali Province), are not religious or choose to disassociate themselves from Islam. Thus, the Smolyan Province, which is largely populated by Bulgarian Muslims (approximately 117,000 or 71% of the population according to the Ministry of Interior in 1989), has the highest number of people who did not declare any religion in the 2001 Census—39,003 or 27.8% of the population of the province—compared to a national average of only 3.6%. Considering the insignificant change in the number of Bulgarian Christians (from approximately 47,000 in 1989 to 41,792 in 2001), the total number of ethnic Bulgarians in the province (122,806 or 87.7%) and that only 58,758 people or 41.9% of the population of the province declared to profess Islam in 2001, the vast majority of the undeclared must be of Bulgarian Muslim extraction.\n\nA similar phenomenon is observed in the Kardzhali Province (approximately 30,000 Bulgarian Muslims in 1989) and the Lovech Province (approximately 8,000 Bulgarian Muslims in 1989), where the percentage of the undeclared is also well above the national average: 13,430 or 8.2% for Kardzhali and 10,739 or 6.3% for Lovech, respectively. In both provinces, the number of ethnic Bulgarians is higher (for Kardzhali, significantly higher) than the number of Orthodox Christians - 55,930 Bulgarians compared with 35,551 Orthodox Christians for Kardzhali and 152,194 Bulgarians compared with 148,023 Orthodox Christians for Lovech.\n\nAn additional, though smaller, number of Bulgarian Muslims, also from the Central and Eastern Rhodopes, have converted into Orthodox Christianity or have adopted a Christian identity since 1990. The process of conversion has affected mostly Muslim Bulgarians living among or next to ethnic Turks, i.e. the regions of Nedelino, Kirkovo, Zlatograd and Krumovgrad. In some cases, the conversion has affected whole villages, which have adopted a Christian Bulgarian identity, as in the case of Zabardo in the Chepelare Municipality or the younger generations in a village, as in the case with the village of Pripek in the Dzhebel Municipality. Use of Bulgarian names among Muslims is common. For example, only one-third of the Muslim Bulgarian population of the region of Kirkovo, mostly people aged over 60, have Turkish or Arabic names.\n\nUnlike the Bulgarian Muslims in the Central and Eastern Rhodopes, who usually have a Bulgarian identity and are mostly secular Muslims, non-religious or have even adopted Christianity, the ones living on the western fringes of the Rhodopes (in the provinces of Pazardzhik and Blagoevgrad) are strongly religious and have preserved the Muslim customs and clothing. For example, out of 62,431 self-declared Muslims in the Blagoevgrad Province in 2001, 31,857 (more than half) have opted for Turkish ethnicity although the self-declared speakers of Turkish as a mother tongue are only 19,819. Considering that mother tongue in the Bulgarian census is counted on the basis of a declaration of the respondent and not on actual proof of what language this person speaks at home and that an inquiry of the Ministry of the Interior in 1989 gave only 3,689 ethnic Turks and 56,191 Pomaks for the Blagoevgrad Province, it is highly likely that the vast majority of the Turks in the province are actually Pomaks. A similar phenomenon exists in the Pazardzhik Province where there may be between 10,000 and 15,000 Pomaks.\n\nFinally, there are those Bulgarian Muslims who have chosen not to declare their ethnicity in the 2001 Census . The percentage of undeclared in the Smolyan Province (9,696 or 6.9%), the Kardzhali Province (4,565 or 2.8%) and the Blagoevgrad Province (4,242 or 1.2%) is well above the national average of 0.8%. These are most likely to be Muslim Bulgarians who would have opted for another ethnicity, for example \"Pomak\" or \"Muslim\", if these were allowed as answers at the census or are unclear themselves about their own ethnic identity.\n\nDue to the multitude of different ethnic and religious identities of the Muslim Bulgarians, it is extremely difficult to calculate the exact number of the members of the community in Bulgaria. An inquiry conducted by the Bulgarian Ministry of the Interior in 1989 estimated their number at 269,000. A summation of the different groups with different religious and ethnic identities (approximately 130,000 Muslim Bulgarians, approximately 55,000-65,000 non-religious Bulgarians, up to 50,000 Muslim Turks, 15,000 to 20,000 undeclared and an unclear number, probably at least several thousands, of Christian Bulgarians) yields approximately the same number. Despite the multitude of different ethnic and religious affiliations, the predominant ethnic identity would be Bulgarian (approximately 200,000 or three-quarters of the total population) and the predominant religious identity would be Muslim (again approximately 200,000 or three-quarters of the total population). However, if only self-consciousness and self-declaration are taken into consideration, the number of Muslim Bulgarians would be only 131,531, i.e. the ones who have declared as such at the 2001 census.\n\nMuslim Bulgarians in the Rhodopes speak a variety of archaic Bulgarian dialects. Under the influence of mass media and school education, the dialects have been almost completely unified with standard Bulgarian among Muslim Bulgarians living in Bulgaria.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28984579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28984579", "title": "Buy Quiet", "text": "Buy Quiet\n\nBuy Quiet is an American health and safety initiative to select and purchase the lowest noise emitting power tools and machinery in order to reduce occupational and community noise exposure. Buy Quiet Programs are examples of noise control strategies. Buy Quiet is part of the larger Hearing Loss Prevention Program, and is an example of Prevention Through Design, which seeks to reduce occupational injury through prevention considerations in designs that impact workers.\n\nOrganizations that have embarked upon the buy-quiet initiative are moving towards the creation of an environment and workplace where there will be no harmful noise. Many companies are automating equipment or setting up procedures that can be operated by workers from a quiet control room free from harmful noise, chemical agents, and heat. Some of such companies that been recognized for their demonstrated results from noise control and Buy Quiet initiatives, with a Safe-in-Sound Excellence in Hearing Loss Prevention Award The objectives of this award are to recognize effective and innovative initiatives, and to share that information to a broader community.\n\nNoise-induced hearing loss is an irreversible condition that is 100% preventable, and over 30 million US workers are exposed to hazardous noise on the job, which makes them susceptible to noise-induced hearing loss and tinnitus. Noise-induced hearing loss is also the most common occupational illness in the United States. The National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health recommends that workers be exposed to no more than 85 dB per eight hours per day.\n\nA formal Buy Quiet program of the late 1970s and early 1980s was a cooperative effort of the United States Environmental Protection Agency (EPA), the National Institute of Governmental Purchasing (NIGP), and the National League of Cities (NLC). This program represented a marked departure from the regulatory approach that the U.S. Government still uses to compel the manufacture and sales of products that are less harmful to human health.\n\nInstead of regulations, the EPA/NIGP/NLC initiative used the power of high volume procurements by governments at all levels to stimulate a market demand for quiet products. This market-based, incentive-driven approach enabled federal, state, and local governments to purchase quieter products and equipment at competitive prices, by awarding procurements to the lowest \"effective bid price”. The effective bid price adjusted the monetary bid price by the sound level of the bidder's equipment in comparison to the average level of all bidders' proposals.\n\nProducts purchased under this program included construction equipment, lawn and garden equipment, trash trucks/compactors, chain saws, and similar noise generating equipment. The program was part of an initiative to help localities create \"quiet communities\". States and localities that participated were encouraged also to promote similar Buy Quiet procurements by private sector organizations in their jurisdictions as a way of \"spreading\" the market.\nThe NIGP/NIGP/NLC Buy Quiet program extended the concepts of \"social marketing\" to include the creation of markets for socially and environmentally responsible products. It did this by combining incentivized procurements with the development of a national database of buy quiet purchases available to all interested parties. This database demonstrated that incentivized procurements could achieve quiet products at competitive prices.\n\nThe lowest \"bid price\" was most often the lowest \"effective bid price\" and quiet products were indicative of high quality and high performing products. The incentive mechanism was also used to purchase low maintenance and low energy products, and is adaptable to other sustainable product initiatives. The Buy Quiet program ended with the dissolution of the Office of Noise Abatement and Control in EPA during the Reagan Administration.\n\nIn July 2007, New York City’s Department of Environmental Protection promulgated rules concerning citywide construction noise mitigation. These new rules reward contractors deploying tools and machinery that use the best available noise control technologies, are designed for quiet, or are known to be the quietest available models of their type. The New York City Department of Environmental Protection released a products and vendor guidance sheet in order to assist contractors for achieving compliance with the New York City Noise Regulations.\n\nIn 2006, the National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA) codified a Buy Quiet program. In 2009 NASA implemented an online tool called the NASA Buy-Quiet Roadmap.\n\nNational Institute for Occupational Safety and Health (NIOSH) researchers developed a Buy Quiet prevention initiative intended to facilitate the implementation of Buy Quiet programs for the construction and manufacturing sectors. As a part of this, NIOSH created a searchable database describing noise emission levels of powered hand tools. The database is called the NIOSH Power Tools Database. In 2014, NIOSH officially launched a Buy Quiet website and blog to promote the purchase of quieter tools and equipment. The initiative also aims to encourage manufacturers to design quieter equipment.\n\nThe intention of Buy Quiet programs is to reduce the risk of hearing loss at the worksite. Buy Quiet programs seek to minimize the impact of noise on communities and help companies comply with OSHA and other noise regulation requirements as well. Additionally, Buy Quiet concepts may reduce the long-term costs of audiometric testing, personal protective equipment, and workers’ compensation. NIOSH suggests Buy Quiet programs contain the following elements:\n\n\nThe Laborers' Health and Safety Fund of North America indicates buying quieter equipment as a cost-effective way to reduce noise at a construction worksite in its Best Practices Guide on Controlling Noise on Construction Sites.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6924", "title": "Cabal", "text": "Cabal\n\nA cabal is a small group of people united in some close design, usually to promote their private views of or interests in an ideology, state, or other community, often by and usually unbeknownst to those outside their group. The use of this term usually carries negative connotations of political purpose, conspiracy and secrecy.\n\nIt can also refer to a secret plot, or a clique of people, or may be used as a verb (to form a cabal or to conspire secretly).\n\nThe term \"cabal\" derives from Cabala (a word that has numerous spelling variations), the Jewish mystical interpretation of the Hebrew scripture. In Hebrew it means \"reception\" or \"tradition\", denoting the \"sod\" (secret) level of Jewish exegesis. In European culture (Christian Cabala, Hermetic Qabalah) it became associated with occult doctrine or a secret.\n\nIt came into English via the French \"cabale\" from the medieval Latin \"cabbala\", and was known early in the 17th century through usages linked to Charles I and Oliver Cromwell. By the middle of the 17th century it had developed further to mean some intrigue entered into by a small group and also referred to the group of people so involved, i.e. a semi-secret political clique.\n\nThere is a theory that the term took on its present meaning from a group of ministers formed in 1668 - the \"Cabal ministry\" of King Charles II of England. Members included Sir Thomas Clifford, Lord Arlington, the Duke of Buckingham, Lord Ashley, and Lord Lauderdale, whose initial letters coincidentally spelled CABAL, and who were the signatories of the Secret Treaty of Dover that allied England to France in a prospective war against the Netherlands. The theory that the word originated as an acronym from the names of the group of ministers is a folk etymology, although the coincidence was noted at the time and could possibly have popularized its use.\n"}
{"id": "29218080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29218080", "title": "Capital punishment in Jersey", "text": "Capital punishment in Jersey\n\nJersey is a state in which capital punishment has been abolished.\n\nUntil the 19th century, hangings were carried out on Westmount ( (gallows hill); \"Jèrriais\": Mont ès Pendus (hill of the hanged men)) in Saint Helier. The last such execution was carried out on 3 October 1829, when Philippe Jolin was hanged for murder.\n\nThe following execution, that of François Bradley on 11 October 1866, was carried out in public outside the prison in Saint Helier. The law specified hanging in public until 1907. The next execution, therefore, that of Joseph Philip Le Brun on 12 August 1875, also took place under the same conditions. It was the last public hanging in the British Isles (the United Kingdom had abolished public hangings in 1868).\n\nThe death sentence passed on Thomas Connan (executed 19 February 1907) necessitated a law change to permit the hanging to take place within the prison walls. During the German Occupation 1940-1945, the occupying forces carried out executions by firing squad. The last execution in Jersey was on 9 October 1959, when Francis Joseph Huchet was hanged for murder.\n\nIn Jersey, the last death sentence was passed in 1984, but was commuted to life imprisonment.\n\nCapital punishment was abolished by the Homicide (Jersey) Law 1986 in relation to the offence of murder and by the Genocide (Amendment) (Jersey) Law 1987 in relation to the offence of genocide. Technically, the death penalty remained available to a military court, but by the 1986 and 1987 laws the Royal Court of Jersey lost the power of capital sentencing. References to capital punishment in obsolete laws were formally removed by the Criminal Justice (Miscellaneous Provisions) (No. 2) (Jersey) Law 2007.\n\nThe \"Human Rights (Amendment) (Jersey) Order 2006\" amends the \"Human Rights (Jersey) Law 2000\" to give effect to the 13th Protocol of the European Convention on Human Rights providing for the total abolition of the death penalty. Both of these laws came into effect on 10 December 2006.\n"}
{"id": "48434424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48434424", "title": "Chetti Devasahayam", "text": "Chetti Devasahayam\n\nChetti Devasahayam (6 October 1913 – 28 February 1993) was the Registrar of the nation's first University, the Senate of Serampore College (University) who was in office from 1960 through 1975. It was during Devasahayam's tenure at the University that ecumenism gave way to merger of seminaries and the formation of special purpose entity's throughout India. It was Devasahayam who gave the inaugural address when the Andhra Christian Theological College was formed in 1964 in Rajahmundry.\n\nAfter scholastic studies at the CBM-McLaurin High School in Kakinada, Devasahayam enrolled for graduate studies from 1931–1933 at the Pithapuram Rajah College in Kakinada from where he obtained a degree in Sciences leading to the award of Bachelor of Science (BSc) by the Andhra University. For ministerial formation, Devasahayam studied from 1936–1939 at Serampore College, Serampore as a candidate of the Canadian Baptist Mission/Convention of Baptist Churches of Northern Circars at the Serampore College, Serampore.\n\nIn Fall 1955, Devasahayam was sent by his Church Society for upgrading his academics at the Northern Baptist Theological Seminary, Lombard, Illinois where he enrolled for a postgraduate course in Master of Theology (Th.M.) completing it by May 1956.\n\nAfter Devasahayam's ministerial studies at Serampore College, he was assigned pastoral roles in outright rural areas where there were hardly \nany Christians and much like the Baptist heritage, he was left to himself to build up congregations. From 1939 to 1942, he was Visakha Field Supervisor of the Canadian Baptist Mission.\n\nAfter a brief stint as Military Chaplain, during the World War II, he returned to the Church Society in 1947 and subsequently ministered in parishes of Convention of Baptist Churches of Northern Circars from 1947 as Krishna Field Minister stationed at Avanigadda During an overseas missionary visit to Canada in 1951, Devasahayam addressed a missionary meeting in Canada where many came from Okanagan, Kaleden, Peachland, Kelowna, and Vernon.\n\nAt the height of the World War II, Devasahayam was asked to serve in the Royal Indian Navy as a Military Chaplain. Devasahayam was Military Chaplain from 1942 through 1947 and returned to Church ministry.\n\nIn 1960, Devasahayam was appointed as Registrar of the nation's first University. As Registrar, Devasahayam was also a member of the Council of Senate of Serampore College.\n\nWhile performing his duties at the university, Devasahayam was an honorary pastor at Lower Circular Road Baptist Chapel in Kolkata, the chapel founded by William Carey. Devasahayam used to pastor the church from 1968 onwards and became a full-time Pastor of the Chapel in 1975, but it was not until 1978 that he resigned from the university.\n\nDevasahayam was visiting professor at his alma mater, the Northern Baptist Theological Seminary during 1974–1975.\n"}
{"id": "2257481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2257481", "title": "Consumer service", "text": "Consumer service\n\nConsumer services refers to the formulation, deformulation, technical consulting and testing of most consumer products, such as food, herbs, beverages, vitamins, pharmaceuticals, cosmetics, hair products, household cleaners, paints, plastics, metals, waxes, coatings, minerals, ceramics, construction materials plus water, indoor air quality testing, non-medical forensic testing and failure analysis.\n\nIt involves services in a wide variety of fields such as biological, chemical, physical, engineering and Web based services.\n\nEvolution of Web has changed itself from the information orientation to Service orientation. Every physical service one can think of, has its web counterpart today, be it retail selling, supply chain, customer care, banking, auction and more of b2b, b2c, c2c businesses. Online appointments, online consultation, online bill-pay have become the order of web based consumer services.\n\nBetween 1985 and 2018 around 90,700 deals within the consumer service sector have been announced. These deals cumulate to an overall value of around 2,031 bil. USD.\n\nThere have been three M&A waves in 2000, 2007 and 2016 with a current all time in 2017, where 5,839 deals with a value of 152 bil. USD have been announced.\n\n1. http://www.internetworldstats.com/stats.htm\n2. http://www.e-consultancy.com/news-blog/364106/online-banks-see-growth-among-older-web-users.html\n"}
{"id": "31989460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31989460", "title": "Crime in Greece", "text": "Crime in Greece\n\nCrime in Greece is combated by the Greek Police and other agencies. For much of the 20th century, the security forces were criticized for spending their time chasing people with left-wing political views, instead of focusing on actual crime. The crime rate in Greece has historically been amongst the lowest in Western Europe, and continues to be.\n\nDuring the 1980s, Greek Police Chief Nikon Arkoudeas (Νίκων Αρκουδέας) led an intense campaign against organized crime which saw significant success. Since the early 1990s, many illegal immigrants have come to Greece from Central and Eastern European countries, Asia and the Middle East. Their sudden arrival contributed to an increase in criminal activities throughout the 1990s and 2000s.\n\nThe Greek Police also had several victories, breaking up mafia organizations, arresting the 17 November terrorist group, successfully organizing security for the 2004 Olympic Games and for breaking up in 2016 the largest criminal organization in the country, responsible for more than 2.000 robberies.\n\nIn 2011, Greece had a murder rate of 1.7 per 100,000 population. There were a total of 184 murders in Greece in 2011.\n\nOrganized crime in Greece is on the rise. Domestic as well as foreign criminal groups are well-entrenched in Greek society. Traditionally, people associated with organized crime were known as \"Men of the night\" (άνθρωποι της νύχτας).\nOut of the foreign criminal groups the Albanian mafia is the most prevalent. The activities of the Albanian crime groups in Greece include drug trafficking, human trafficking, extortion and robbery among others.\n\nAlbanian criminal groups often extort other immigrants to Greece, especially Middle Eastern and Pakistani shopkeepers, and control many nightclubs in the working-class districts of West Athens. Russian groups are less numerous, but they are very heavily armed and dangerous; they are involved in arms trafficking, extortion and cigarette smuggling. Lower-level Romanian and Moldavian groups are involved in theft and human trafficking.\n\nDomestic, ethnic Greek criminal organizations are the most powerful and politically well-connected and extensively cooperate with Albanian groups, often hiring Albanians to act as enforcers. Greek criminal organizations are involved in human trafficking, extortion, drug trafficking, kidnapping and the infiltration of legal businesses. They have profited from the rising corruption. That is evident in the fact that Greek crime groups have infiltrated the shipping industry, which is used to traffic cocaine and heroin into the Greek mainland and abroad.\n\nAs of 2011, Greece has seen an increase in property-related crime, thought to be linked to the worsening of economic conditions. Robberies, ranging from street muggings to bank hold-ups and house burglaries, totaled about 80,000 in 2009, up from about 50,000 in 2005. The increase in property crime has seen an increase in the amount of work for private security companies. Nevertheless, the crime rate is still among the lowest in Western Europe. \n\nIn 2016, the Greek police successfully broke up the country's largest criminal organization in Greece's history, which was responsible for more than 2.000 house burglaries across the country, in an operation where at least 1.000 policemen and 37 judges participated.\n\nOfficial statistics show that immigrants are responsible for about half of the criminal activity in Greece. The Greek police have admitted that armed gangs entering the country from neighbouring Albania or Bulgaria could have been attracted by reports that many people have been withdrawing cash from banks and stashing it in their homes. There are possibly more than 1 million illegal immigrants inside Greece as of 2012. Cases of immigrant crime such as the 2012 Paros rape have attracted nationwide interest.\n\nIllegal immigration to Greece has increased rapidly over the past several years. Tough immigration policies in Spain and Italy and agreements with their neighboring African countries to combat illegal immigration have changed the direction of African immigration flows toward Greece. At the same time, flows from Asia and the Middle East — mainly Pakistan, Afghanistan, Iraq, and Bangladesh — to Greece appear to have increased as well.\n\nThe evidence now indicates that nearly all illegal immigration to the European Union flows through the country's porous borders. In 2010, 90 percent of all apprehensions for unauthorized entry into the European Union took place in Greece, compared to 75 percent in 2009 and 50 percent in 2008.\n\nIn 2010, 132,524 persons were arrested for \"illegal entry or stay\" in Greece, a sharp increase from 95,239 in 2006. Nearly half of those arrested (52,469) were immediately deported, the majority of them being Albanians.\n\nGreece suffers from relatively high levels of tax evasion and political corruption, even though in recents years there has been considerable decrease. This is to the extent that tax evasion has been described by Greek politicians as \"a national sport\" - with up to €30 billion per year going uncollected.\n\nThe OECD estimated in August 2009 that the size of the Greek black market to be around €65bn (equal to 25% of GDP), resulting each year in €20bn of unpaid taxes. This is a European record in relative terms, and in comparison almost twice as big as the German black market (estimated to be 15% of GDP).\n\nSeveral successive Greek governments had in the past attempted to improve the situation, but all failed due to tax evasion's place within Greek culture. A rapid increase in government revenues through implementing a more effective tax collecting system has been recommended. Implementing the proper reforms, is however estimated to be a slow process, requiring at least two legislative periods before they start to work.\n\nIn the last quarter of 2005, participation in tax evasion reached an estimated 49% of the population, while in January 2006 it fell to 41.6%. A study by researchers from the University of Chicago concluded that tax evasion in 2009 by self-employed professionals alone in Greece (accountants, dentists, lawyers, doctors, personal tutors and independent financial advisers) was €28 billion or 31% of the budget deficit that year.\n\nThe Tax Justice Network has said that there are over €20 billion in Swiss bank accounts held by Greeks. The former Finance Minister of Greece, Evangelos Venizelos, was quoted as saying \"Around 15,000 individuals and companies owe the taxman 37 billion euros\". Additionally, the TJN puts the number of Greek-owned off-shore companies to over 10,000.\n\nArmed robberies in Athens doubled between 2007 and 2009; however, Athens is still among the safest capitals in Europe. Thefts and break-ins jumped from 26,872 recorded cases in 2007, to 47,607 in 2009. The number of murders in Athens nearly doubled between 2007 and 2009. The Greek Police has responded that it often finds its work hindered by NGOs, who tend to interfere with police procedure, advocate small penalties for criminals and spread false rumors of police brutality .\n\nOne of the major criticisms addressed to the Greek Police by the Greek media is the politicization of its officer corps. Up until 1981 (when Andreas Papandreou and his Panhellenic Socialist Movement party came to power), almost all senior officers of the Greek Gendarmerie and the Cities Police were dyed-in-the-wool conservative right-wingers. These two agencies were merged in 1984 to create the Greek Police.\n\nIt is not uncommon for officers to seek the patronage of a political party, and \"cliques\" have been formed inside the force, sometimes with a regional basis; for example, most Generals usually originate from the Peloponnese or from Crete.\n"}
{"id": "15363104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15363104", "title": "Crime in Russia", "text": "Crime in Russia\n\nCrime in Russia is combated by the Russian police and other agencies.\n\nIn 2016, the murder rate in Russia was 7 per 100,000 people, according to Rosstat, also known as the Russian Federal State Statistics Service. According to UNODC, the corresponding figure is a bit higher at 9.2.[https://dataunodc.un.org/crime/intentional-homicide-victims ] Either way, it represents a significant decrease over the previous 15 years (in 2001, the homicide rate was 30.5). In the first quarter of 2018, murder rate in Russia fell by 15% year-over-year; and if the trend continues for the rest of the year, the murder rate will be below that of the United States (5.3 per 100,000 in 2016) for the first time in recent history. In 2017, Moscow also recorded the lowest crime rate in over a decade. \n\nAt the beginning of the 20th century, Russia had a higher homicide rate – nearly ten per 100,000 people per year. In the late 1950s and early 1960s, the rate remained stable and it was lower than in the United States. There was a rise in the homicide rate in the mid-1960s and 1970s which peaked in 1980, and then slowly declined in until 1985, and then it fell rapidly in 1986–1987.\n\nUntil the late 1980s, homicide rates in Russia were nearly similar to that in the United States. The increase in homicide rate in Russia began slightly earlier than 1990, and rose throughout the 1990s. Homicides were more common in Russia than in the Baltic states in 1991 and nearly doubled in frequency by 1994–1995. In 2003, the homicide rate in Russia was among the highest in the world. However, by 2017, homicide rate in Russia had fallen by 75%. By the end of 2018, Russia's homicide rate may be lower than that of the U.S.\n\nIn the early 1980s, an estimated \"two-thirds of murders and violent crimes were committed by intoxicated persons\". In 1995, about three quarters of those arrested for homicide were under the influence of alcohol. Things are changing in Russia now, as alcohol consumption has fallen by 80% over the last few years. In 2016, according to WHO, Russians consumed less alcohol than the people of France, Ireland, Latvia, Lithuania etc. \n\nBelow is a comparison of homicide rate in Russia from 1990 to 2017:\n\nAccording to an official of the Ministry of Internal Affairs, the homicide rate in Russia in January–November 2006 was 10% less than in the same period of 2005, but 15% of the cases were unsolved. Andrei Kucheryavy, the head of a criminal police department, said in a news conference: \"The number of killings has been gradually declining in the past four years, while the number of solved murders is increasing.\" Approximately 23,500 cases of homicide were registered in the first 10 months of 2006, of which 3,500 were unsolved, 9% less than the previous year. Between 2006 and 2017, the number of murders in Russia fell by 70% to 8,884. \n\nThe age pattern of homicide victimization rates in Russia is different compared to that of the United States. In 2001, 32% of the homicide victims in Russia were under the age of thirty-five, and 30% of the victims were fifty years or older. There is a wide range of variation in homicide rates throughout Russia. The homicide rate is relatively high in Siberia and Russian Far East compared to European Russia.\n\nDrug trafficking and illicit drug use is a significant problem in Russia. The disintegration of the Soviet Union, the civil war in Afghanistan, the civil war in Tajikistan, and the conflicts in the North Caucasus have made the favorable conditions for the development of illegal drug trade. In the early 1990s, use of cocaine was increasingly noted among the young population of the nation.\n\nIn the mid-1990s, the growing drug abuse that appeared in Russia was caused by lack of border controls, and the country became one of the world's major transit corridors of drug trafficking. The entrance of producers of cocaine of South America in the Russian market was proved by intercepting cocaine shipments in Saint Petersburg in 1993. As of 1996 internal production of narcotic substances was also rising in Russia.\n\nLimited quantity of illicit cannabis is cultivated in the country. Opium poppies and marijuana are cultivated illegally in the Southern Federal District. Russia is one of the two major drug producers along with Morocco, and one of the five major drug trafficking entry points along with\nIran, Turkey, Italy and Spain in the Mediterranean region. The drug trafficking also involves the supply of opium, heroin and marijuana from Central Asia and the Golden Crescent, comprising Pakistan, Afghanistan and Iran.\n\nRussian drug rings work with the Sicilian mafia and the Colombian drug traffickers to import and distribute cocaine. Many local Russian distributors have connections with criminal organizations in Central Asia, the Caucasus, and Ukraine. According to the Moscow State Institute of International Relations, a regular trafficking route exists from Tajikistan to Rostov-on-Don via Turkmenistan, and from there to Western Europe. Below are some drug-trafficking routes through the Russian Federation:\n\nBetween 1993 and 1995, the annual amount of seized narcotic substances increased from thirty-five tons to ninety tons. At present approximately 5 million people use illicit drugs in Russia. Russia has the biggest heroin problem along with\nIran and Estonia. \n\nSeveral measures have been taken by the government to combat drug trafficking. Russia is a party of the 1988 United Nations Convention Against Illicit Traffic in Narcotic Drugs and Psychotropic Substances. In 1994, when Boris Yeltsin was the President of Russia, a committee was founded for coordination of drug policy. In 1995, a three-year counternarcotics program was approved for establishing drug treatment facilities, criminalization of drug abuse, extension of sentences for drug trafficking, and establishment of pharmaceuticals-monitoring process.\n\nIn two major anti-drug operations in 1997, fifty metric tons of narcotic substances were seized and approximately 1,400 criminal organizations engaged in drug trafficking were disrupted or destroyed. In March 2003, Russian President Vladimir Putin established the Russian State Committee for Control over the\nIllegal Trafficking of Narcotics and Psychotropic Substances for combating drug trafficking with more coordinated manner.\n\nRussia is a supply, transit, and destination country for men, women, and children being trafficked for various purposes. The trafficking is multidimensional and it involves both commercial sexual exploitation and labor exploitation. Russia is a significant source of women trafficked to over 50 nations. Internal trafficking is a problem in the country; women are trafficked from rural areas to urban settlements for commercial sexual exploitation. Men are trafficked internally and from Central Asia for forced labor in the construction and agricultural industries. Debt bondage is common among the trafficking victims.\n\nArms trafficking has become a significant problem in the Russian Federation following the disintegration of the Soviet Union. The former Eastern Bloc countries (including Russia) are the source of the majority of illegal weapons in circulation around the world. Illegal arms possession is a problem in many regions in the nation, especially in the areas suffering from insurgency such as Chechnya and Dagestan.\n\nBecause of the general weakening of the government control and the decentralization of power in the nation in the first half of the 1990s, small arms from several military units and arsenals made their way into the hands of civilians and local unofficial armed formations. Gunrunning in Russia stemmed from corruption in the armed forces and the illegal sale of military equipment. It has been suggested that parts of the Ministry of Defence of the Russian Federation and arms industry were engaged in arms trafficking with the Chechen separatists.\n\nRussian troops play an important role in arms trafficking especially in the war zones. Poor salary for service persons coupled with lack of control over weapon storage resulted in troop involvement in illegal arms trade. The Chief of the General Staff Anatoly Kvashnin publicly stated in 2003 that increasing corruption left the Russian military in a \"post-critical state\".\n\nThere have been accusations and counter-accusations between Russia and Georgia regarding illegal arms selling to Chechen separatists. Russia alleged that Chechen separatists received weapons through illegal networks going to Chechnya through Georgia and Azerbaijan. On the other hand, Georgia accused Russia of corruption on military bases, poor security infrastructure and low professionalism among Russian troops as the reasons behind the spread of illegal weapons.\n\nThe types of firearms in illegal possession varies throughout the nation: in Siberia unregistered hunting rifles are the primarily found illegal weapons while in Chechnya the predominant illicit arms are illegally held military weapons. Small arms are illegally proliferated from the main centers of small arms manufacturing, Tula and Izhevsk. In 2003 an estimated 300,000 to 1.5 million illegal arms were in circulation within Russia.\n\nAccording to the statistics from the Supreme Court of the Russian Federation, 1.5 times more people were arrested for gunrunning in 2001 than in 2000; in total 26,113 arrests were made and 65,000 crimes were committed using illegal arms. In 2000, the number of seized unregistered firearms was 300,000, which was a 37% increase compared with 1999. Many Russian criminal organizations, aside from arms trafficking in Russia, provide weapons to the separatists groups in Chechnya.\n\nHowever several attempts were made to combat arms trafficking. Small arms manufacturers in the country have tightened their security systems. Special prosecutors’ offices, which were originally set up in the 1950s for supervising secrecy in nuclear facilities, have been given the responsibility of the security of defense plants and curbing the theft of small arms from the plants. The Government of Russia has undertaken a programme to increase security at arms storage facilities at military bases.\n\nPoaching was extremely uncommon in the Soviet Union, but has recently become a significant problem in the country. The main cause for poaching in Russia is the consequence of the social and political changes since the dissolution of the Soviet Union. State-controlled farms stopped functioning due to the fall of the previous system resulting in high unemployment. Unemployment, poverty, inflation, shortage of food and demand for foreign currency have major impact on the wildlife in the country.\n\nBetween 1992 and 1996, law enforcement agencies in Russia mainly focused on drug trafficking, arms trafficking, money laundering and\nthe First Chechen War. Environmental crimes like poaching and illegal timber smuggling were generally not treated as national security issues. During the post-perestroika transition, the government agencies for environment and wildlife protection experienced severe budget cuts which led to layoffs and salary reductions for wildlife rangers in places like Primorski Krai and it reduced the resources of the rangers to fight against the poachers. Animals being poached in the country are bear, musk deer, tiger etc. Approximately 50,000 cases of poaching are registered annually. According to the tiger experts and enforcement officers in Russia, the characteristics of tiger poaching in Russia are:\n\n\nIt is believed that sharp increase in poaching in the first half of the 1990s resulted in rapid decrease of the Siberian tiger population. According to estimation, there were 330 to 371 adult Siberian tigers in the Russian Far East in 1996 while the number was 600 at the end of the 1980s. During the communist rule, borders were closed and access to the Asian demand for tiger products was almost non-existent. Due to this, from 1972 to 1992, poaching was not reported.\n\nThe collapse of the Soviet Union resulted in easing of border controls and gun laws, and it became an urgent need for the villagers to earn income in a destroyed economy with high inflation. Almost immediately tigers became similar to a profitable cash crop at a time when there was huge demand for tiger parts for Traditional Chinese medicine. Data obtained from field examinations, skin confiscations and from radio-collared animals indicated that 58%-73% tiger deaths were related to poaching. Poaching of tigers apparently peaked in the early 1990s.\n\nThe collapse of the Marxist-Leninist government in the country had a significant influence on the average Russian's economic ability to maintain his or her family. Because of the large population of bears in Russia and an increasing demand for bear parts, especially bile, poaching of bears became increasingly popular. Its main trade partners in bear parts are primarily nearby Asian countries like South Korea and the People's Republic of China. Poaching of the snow leopard is also a serious problem in Russia along with Afghanistan, India, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Mongolia, Nepal, Pakistan, People’s Republic of China, Tajikistan and Uzbekistan. The situation for antelopes has deteriorated significantly since the collapse of the Soviet system. There has been increase in poaching of the saiga antelope which reduced the saiga population in the country.\n\nHowever several attempts were made to combat commercial poaching of animals. Operation Amba, started to curtail the poaching of Siberian tigers in the Russian Far East, is credited for bringing the Amur tiger back from the brink of extinction in the mid-1990s.\n\nMajor General Vitaly Ivanovich Gamov, a Deputy Commander of the Pacific Regional Directorate of the Border Guard Service of Russia, was killed in 2002 in his house after refusing to take bribes and allow poachers to outsource their recourse to Japan.\n\nIn January 2009, the Altaigate Scandal developed after the Plenipotentiary of the Russian President in the State Duma was killed along with 6 other officials in the helicopter crash accident (poaching for legally protected argali mountain sheep) and an entire investigation was concealed from the public.\n\nIn Russia's criminal legislation, \"corruption\" is not defined as a specific crime, but a collective term which include bribery, abuse of office and others. It is accepted in both inside and outside the country that corruption is widespread in Russia. Corruption is often considered as a major factor behind economic problems in the nation. According to a survey conducted by the Economist Intelligence Unit in 1997, the Commonwealth of Independent States was the most corrupt region in the world, with Russia (along with the other four CIS countries surveyed) received the maximum rating for corruption among public officials.\n\nIn the Corruption Perceptions Index 2007, Russia was ranked 143rd out of 179 countries for corruption (least corrupt countries are at the top of the list). On a scale of 0 to 10 with 0 the most corrupt and 10 the most transparent, Transparency International rated Russia 2.3. Corruption in Russia is often divided into two broad categories: \"petty\" corruption, where low-ranking government officials are engaged in bribery, and \"high-level\" corruption involving political and business elite. Below are selected official data on corruption in Russia from 1997 to 2003:\n\nCorruption in the police force is a significant problem in the country. First Deputy Minister of Internal Affairs Vladimir Vasilev claimed that 1,700 police persons were convicted of bribery or abuse of office in 2001 and the problem of corruption was under control. But according to most observers, in reality the level of police corruption is much higher and state officials like to downplay the problem of corruption.\n\nPolitical analyst Andrei Piontkovsky said in an article written in early 2000 that the then current political system in Russia was \"the highest stage of robber capitalism”. He believes that \"Russia is not corrupt. Corruption is what happens in all countries when businessmen offer officials large bribes for favors. Today’s Russia is unique. The businessmen, the politicians, and the bureaucrats are the same people. They have privatized the country’s wealth and taken control of its financial flows.\" \n\nSuch views are also shared by former CIA director James Woolsey who said in a 1999 Congressional Statement: \"I have been particularly concerned for some years, beginning during my tenure, with the interpenetration of Russian organized crime, Russian intelligence and law enforcement, and Russian business. I have often illustrated this point with the following hypothetical: If you should chance to strike up a conversation with an articulate, English-speaking Russian in, say, the restaurant of one of the luxury hotels along Lake Geneva, and he is wearing a $3,000 suit and a pair of Gucci loafers, and he tells you that he is an executive of a Russian trading company and wants to talk to you about a joint venture, then there are four possibilities. He may be what he says he is. He may be a Russian intelligence officer working under commercial cover. He may be part of a Russian organized crime group. But the really interesting possibility is that he may be all three and that none of those three institutions have any problem with the arrangement.\" \n\nAccording to Transparency International, bribery in Russia is worth $300 billion.\n\nComparison of the crime rates of the Soviet Union with those of other nations is considered difficult, because the Soviet Union did not publish comprehensive crime statistics. According to Western experts, robberies, homicide and other violent crimes were less prevalent in the Soviet Union than in the United States because the Soviet Union had a larger police force, strict gun controls, and had a low occurrence of drug abuse. However, white-collar crime was prevalent in the Soviet system. Corruption in the form of bribery was common, primarily due to the paucity of goods and services on the open market.\n\nTheft of state property (embezzlement) by state employees was also common. When Mikhail Gorbachev was the General Secretary of the CPSU, an effort was made to stop white-collar crime. Revelations of corruption scandals involving high-level employees of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union were published regularly in the news media of the Soviet Union, and many arrests and prosecutions resulted from such discoveries. An article published in the \"Izvestia\" in 1994 described the difference between the situation of crime in the Soviet Union and post-Soviet Russia:\nThe crime rate in Russia sharply increased during the late 1980s. The fall of Marxist-Leninist governments in Eastern Europe had tremendous influence on the political economy of organized crime.\n\nThe collapse of the Soviet Union destroyed much of the systems and infrastructures\nthat provided social security and a minimal standard of living for the population, and law and order across the country broke down resulting in outbreak of crime. In the transition to a free market economy, production fell and there was huge capital flight coupled with low foreign investment.\n\nDue to these factors, economic instability increased and a newly impoverished population emerged, accompanied by unemployment and unpaid wages. Extreme poverty as well as unpaid wages resulted in an increase in theft and counterfeiting. Since the dissolution of the Soviet Union, organized criminal groups in Russia and other former Soviet republics have been involved in different illegal activities such as drug trafficking, arms trafficking, car theft, human trafficking and money laundering being the most common.\n\nThe internationalization of the Russian Mafia along with the Sicilian Mafia, the Camorra, the Triads and the Yakuza played a vital role in the development of transnational crime involving Russia. From 1991 to 1992, the number of both officially reported crimes and the overall crime rate increased by 27%. By the early 1990s, theft, burglary, and other property crimes accounted for nearly two-thirds of all crime in the country. There was a rapid growth of violent crime, including homicides. However, since the beginning of the 2000s, crime in Russia has taken a sharp decline.\n\nRussia's economy experienced a 40% GDP decline in the 1990s, and this led to an explosion of crime. In 1990, the number of registered crime was 1.84 million. This figure increased to 2.8 million in 1993, then fell slightly. In 1996, there were a total of 2.63 million officially registered crimes, which was more than 40% higher than in 1990. In 1999, total reported crime was 3 million, and it continued to increase in 2000 and 2001, and then fell in 2002.\n\nAmong white-collar crimes, swindling increased 67.2 percent, and extortion 37.5 percent, in 1995. Among the conventional crimes reported in 1995, homicide and attempted murder increased 1.5%, rape 6.5%, burglaries 6.6%. Serious crimes by teenagers increased by 2.2 percent in 1995.\n\nIn the first four months in 1994, Russia averaged eighty-four murders per day. Many of those crimes were contract killings by criminal organizations. The 1995 national crime total exceeded 1.3 million, including 30,600 cases of homicide.\n\nThe Putin years (2001-now) have seen substantial decrease in crime -- for example, the number of murders and suicides in Russia is stated to have been dropped by 80%.\n\n2017 was a very good year for Moscow, which saw the lowest number of crimes (140,000) in a decade. Theft, burglary and armed robbery dropped up to 38 percent since the previous year, while the murder rate dropped by 10 percent. Crime statistics of Moscow for 1995 included a total of 93,560 cases of crime, of which 18,500 were white-collar crimes, an increase of 8.3% over 1994.\n\nThe majority of car thefts were reported from Moscow and Saint Petersburg, which increased through the first half of the 1990s. In Moscow an estimated fifty cars were stolen per day, with the estimated yearly total for Russia between 100,000 and 150,000.\n\nIn the early 1980s, an estimated \"two-thirds of murders and violent crimes were committed by intoxicated persons; and drunk drivers were responsible for 14,000 traffic deaths and 60,000 serious traffic injuries\". In 1995, about three quarters of those arrested for homicide were under the influence of alcohol.\n\nA 1997 report published in the \"Journal of Family Violence\", found that among male perpetrators of spousal homicide, 60–75% of offenders had been drinking prior to the incident. In a 2004 study of domestic violence in the Central Black Earth Region of Russia, 77% of offenders of violent crime towards family members were frequent drinkers - 12% engaged in regular binge drinking three or four times a month, 30% three times a week or more, and 35% every day or almost every day.\n\nHomicide/murder rate in Russia has fallen dramatically in the last two decades. The homicide rate in Russia more than tripled between 1988 and 1994 and was among the highest in the world. However, by 2017, the murder rate in Russia was only slightly higher than in the US (6 versus 5.6) . Compared to Russia, murder rates in large American cities are vastly higher -- for example, it's 17 in Miami and 55 in Baltimore. In 1998, a total of 24,537,600 crimes were recorded in United States, while in Russia a total of 2,581,940 crimes were recorded. In 1999, the number was 23,677,800 and 3,001,748 respectively. Total recorded rapes in the United States was 93,140 and 89,110 for the years 1998 and 1999, while this number was 7,724 and 7,314 respectively for Russia. Using the revised definition, FBI recorded 114,730 rapes in the US in 2016. \n\nPolicing:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2305178", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2305178", "title": "Culture-bound syndrome", "text": "Culture-bound syndrome\n\nIn medicine and medical anthropology, a culture-bound syndrome, culture-specific syndrome, or folk illness is a combination of psychiatric and somatic symptoms that are considered to be a recognizable disease only within a specific society or culture. There are no objective biochemical or structural alterations of body organs or functions, and the disease is not recognized in other cultures. The term \"culture-bound syndrome\" was included in the fourth version of the \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders\" (American Psychiatric Association, 1994) which also includes a list of the most common culture-bound conditions (DSM-IV: Appendix I). Counterpart within the framework of ICD-10 () are the \"culture-specific disorders\" defined in Annex 2 of the \"Diagnostic criteria for research\".\n\nMore broadly, an epidemic that can be attributed to cultural behavior patterns or suggestion is sometimes referred to as a behavioral epidemic. As in the cases of drug or alcohol abuse or smoking, transmission can be determined by communal reinforcement as well as by person-to-person interactions. On etiological grounds, it can be difficult to distinguish the causal contribution of culture in disease from other environmental factors such as toxicity.\n\nA culture-specific syndrome is characterized by:\n\nSome culture-specific syndromes involve somatic symptoms (pain or disturbed function of a body part), while others are purely behavioral. Some culture-bound syndromes appear with similar features in several cultures, but with locally specific traits, such as penis panics.\n\nA culture-specific syndrome is not the same as a geographically localized disease with specific, identifiable, causal tissue abnormalities, such as kuru or sleeping sickness, or genetic conditions limited to certain populations. It is possible that a condition originally assumed to be a culture-bound behavioral syndrome is found to have a biological cause; from a medical perspective it would then be redefined into another nosological category.\n\nThe American Psychiatric Association states the following:\n\nThe term \"culture-bound syndrome\" denotes recurrent, locality-specific patterns of aberrant behavior and troubling experience that may or may not be linked to a particular DSM-IV diagnostic category. Many of these patterns are indigenously considered to be \"illnesses,\" or at least afflictions, and most have local names. Although presentations conforming to the major DSM-IV categories can be found throughout the world, the particular symptoms, course, and social response are very often influenced by local cultural factors. In contrast, culture-bound syndromes are generally limited to specific societies or culture areas and are localized, folk, diagnostic categories that frame coherent meanings for certain repetitive, patterned, and troubling sets of experiences and observations.\n\nThe term \"culture-bound syndrome\" is controversial since it reflects the different opinions of anthropologists and psychiatrists. Anthropologists have a tendency to emphasize the relativistic and culture-specific dimensions of the syndromes, while physicians tend to emphasize the universal and neuropsychological dimensions. Guarnaccia & Rogler (1999) have argued in favor of investigating culture-bound syndromes on their own terms, and believe that the syndromes have enough cultural integrity to be treated as independent objects of research.\n\nSome studies suggest that culture-bound syndromes represent an acceptable way within a specific culture (and cultural context) among certain vulnerable individuals (i.e. an \"ataque de nervios\" at a funeral in Puerto Rico) to express distress in the wake of a traumatic experience. A similar manifestation of distress when displaced into a North American medical culture may lead to a very different, even adverse outcome for a given individual and [his or] her family.\n\nThe fourth edition of \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders\" classifies the below syndromes as culture-bound syndromes:\nThe fifth edition of \"Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders\" classifies the below syndromes as cultural concepts of distress, a closely related concept:\n\nThe 10th revision of the International Statistical Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems (ICD) classifies the below syndromes as culture-specific disorders:\nWithin the contiguous United States, the consumption of kaolin has been proposed as a culture-bound syndrome observed in African Americans in the rural south, particularly in areas in which the mining of kaolin is common. In South Africa, among the Xhosa people, the syndrome amafufunyana is commonly used to describe those believed to be possessed by demons or other malevolent spirits. Traditional healers in the culture usually perform exorcisms in order to drive off these spirits. Upon investigating the phenomenon, researchers found that many of the people claimed to be affected by the syndrome exhibited the traits and characteristics of schizophrenia.\n\nVegetative-vascular dystonia can be considered an example of somatic condition formally recognised by local medical community in former Soviet Union countries, but not in Western classification systems. Its umbrella term nature as neurological condition also results in diagnosing neurotic patients as neurological ones, in effect substituting possible psychiatric stigma with culture-bound syndrome disguised as a neurological condition.\n\nRefugee children in Sweden have been known to fall into coma-like states on learning their families will be deported. The condition, known as Uppgivenhetssyndrom, or resignation syndrome is believed to only exist among the refugee population in the Scandinavian country, where it has been prevalent since the early part of the 21st Century. In a hundred-and-thirty-page report on the condition, commissioned by the government and published in 2006, a team of psychologists, political scientists, and sociologists hypothesized that it was a culture-bound syndrome, a psychological illness endemic to a specific society.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9862578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9862578", "title": "Daejongism", "text": "Daejongism\n\nDaejongism ( \"Daejonggyo\" or \"Taejongkyo\", \"religion of the Divine Progenitor\" or \"great ancestral religion\") or Dangunism ( \"Dangungyo\" or \"Tangunkyo\", \"religion of Dangun\") is the name of a number of religious movements within the framework of Korean shamanism, focused on the worship of Dangun (or Tangun). There are around seventeen of these groups, the main one of which was founded in Seoul in 1909 by Na Cheol (, 1864-1916).\n\nDangunists believe their mythos to be the authentic Korean native religion, that was already around as \"Gosindo\" (古神道, \"way of the Ancestral God\" or \"ancient way of God\") at the time of the first Mongol invasions of Korea, and that was revived as \"Daejongism\" (\"Daejonggyo\") just at the start of the Japanese occupation. The religion was suppressed during the Japanese rule.\n\nThe religion believes in one God manifested in three persons, whose earthly incarnation was the legendary king Dangun, who ruled over a Korean empire around 5000 years ago. Its main tenet is that the Koreans have their own God and they have no need to worship foreign gods. Its emphasis is on the national identity and unity of the Korean people (known as \"minjok\") and as such has been associated with Korean nationalism (and sometimes ultranationalism).\n\nDaejongism does not focus so much on institutions or rituals but rather on central doctrines and associated mythologies, so that it is more definable as a creed or a faith system rather than an organized religion. In the decade of 1910-1920, it had its major growth, reaching an estimated following of 400,000. Its popularity was largely due to its efforts on behalf of Korean independence. Once this aim was achieved, its membership declined, although Daejongism acquired a reputation for its educational and scholarly institutions, which published in particular monumental works about Korea's struggle for independence and Daejongism's contribution to it. A 1995 census found that fewer than 10,000 Koreans claimed to follow the religion., although Korean census figures systematically underestimate the number of followers of new religions, who are often reluctant to indicate their religious affiliation.\n\nCentral to the faith is the belief in Haneullim, the triad of Gods of Korean culture: the creator (Hanim/Hwanin), the teacher (Hanung/Hwanung) and the ruler (Dangun/Hanbaegŏm). Dangun, the leader of the Korean nation, is thought to be the third, and human, manifestation of Haneullim (\"God of Heaven\") or Haneul (\"Heaven\"). His physical mother was Ungnye (熊女) a bear transformed into a woman.\n\nAfter his earthly reign, Dangun ascended to Heaven. Semantically, Haneul connotes three Gods: God-Father as the creator of the universe, God-Teacher as the mentor of universal nature and God-King as ruler of creation.\n\nThe faith is embodied in three sacred texts. Believers claim that they date back to the time of Dangun, or even earlier, and this claim, although disputed by scholars, is also accepted by many Koreans who do not belong to Daejongism. The three texts are the \"Ch'ónbugong\" (The Classic of the Seal of Heaven), a narrative of the origins of the world, the \"Samil sin'go\" (The Teachings of the Triune God), a theological statement, and the \"Ch'amjóngyóng\" (The Classic of the Wise One), a manual of ethics. A number of scholars believe that these books were compiled in the first two decades of the 20th century, based on visions and revelation the founder of Daejongism, Na Cheol (1863-1916), claimed to have received\n\nDaejongism is also well-known for its teaching of breathing techniques, known in the West as part of the so called internal alchemy (Neidan in Taoism). Daejongism's techniques focus on the '\"sea of energy,\" which is also often referred to as the cinnabar field or the elixir field (\"tanjón\").The \"tanjon\" is a field rich in the vital energy Qi and the religion offers techniques to draw on this field and circulate the energy through the human body. These techniques became extremely popular in the 1970s and generated a new interest in Daejongism and its school of internal alchemy, known as Kich'ónmun.\n\nSamsin Sinang is a Dangunist sect. Its headquarters are in Pyeongchang County. The current leader is Bae Sun-moon, and the religion promotes the Korean reunification.\n\nNa Cheol, known for his role as a leader of the Korean independence movement from Japanese rule, founded the religion in 1909 as its \"great teacher\" (\"tosagyo\") and named it first \"Dangunism\" (\"Dangungyo\", Dangun religion) and then a year later \"Daejongism\" (\"Daejonggyo\").\n\nHe said that it was a revival of \"Goshindo\" (古神道, \"way of the Ancestral God\"), the belief in the trinitarian god that was worshipped in ancient Korea. Some scholars have suggested the affinity to Christianity, though the ethical basis of the religion is similar to Confucianism.\n\nThe importance of Dangun was influenced by Shin Chaeho's \"A New Reading of History\", and Dangun was emphasised over another legendary figure, Jizi (Kija), who was said to not be Korean in origin. Na claimed that the \"Goshindo\" religion was approximately 4300 years of age, which would make it Korea's oldest religion.\n\nAfter the annexation of Korea in 1910 by the Empire of Japan, the new religion was spread in Manchuria by Na, where it set up schools and social centers, and became a focus of the Korean independence movement. Na committed suicide at a shrine on Mount Kuwŏl in 1916, saying that he had guilt over his failures and was martyring himself for the sake of his religion, God and people.\n\nLeaders of the religion after Na include his successor Kim Kyohong, and An Ho-Sang. The teachings of Dangun were said by Kim in his \"History of the Divine Dangun's People\" to be the \"sin gyo\" or \"divine teaching\", and he said that various Korean religions, such as that of Wang Kon, were continuations of the \"sin gyo\", but that these beliefs had been suppressed under the Mongols, Buddhism, and Confucianism. The main task of the religion was \"chunggwang\" (\"lighting anew\"), meaning reviving the memory of Dangun.\n\nA particularly controversial issue concerns the roots in Daejongism of the global physical exercise and spirituality system known as Body & Brain, Dahnhak, or Dahn Yoga, founded by Korean master of martial arts and author Ilchi Lee. While \"Body and Brain\" does not normally emphasize its connection with Daejongism, scholars see it as one of many schools teaching a form of internal alchemy based on the techniques Daejongism popularized. According to American scholar of Korean religion Don Baker, \"not only-did Dahn claim that its techniques were the same practices that Tàn'gun [Dangun] taught when he ruled over the first Korean kingdom; it also heralded the three Tàn'gun-era sacred texts of Taejonggyo [Daejongism] as authentic scripture.\" Only when the movement became international, references to Dangun and Daejongism were downplayed, although the was embroidered on the original uniforms given to Dahnhak students in America and the organization \"erected a large outdoor statue of Tan'gun near [its] Sedona [Arizona] headquarters.\" Baker states that references to Daejongism, although not made explicit, remain easy to detect for those familiar with the Korean religion.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26061440", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26061440", "title": "Dana Point Concours d'Elegance", "text": "Dana Point Concours d'Elegance\n\nThe Dana Point Concours d'Elegance is an automotive charitable event held each year on the Monarch Beach Golf Links at the Monarch Beach Resort Resort in Dana Point, California. It is operated primarily as a Classic Car Club of America (CCCA) Concours, with additional classes showcasing interesting and relevant automobiles and motorcycles. The 2010 event was held Sunday, June 27, 2010 moving from its traditional date in September.\n\nA \"Concours d'Elegance\" (French, literally \"a competition of elegance\") is an event open to both prewar and postwar collector cars in which they are judged for authenticity, function, history, and style. Classes are commonly arranged by type, marque (manufacturer), coachbuilder, country of origin, or time period. Judges select first-, second-, and third-place finishers for each class in the event, and the judges confer the \"Best of Show\" award on one car from the group of first-place winners. In addition, a group of honorary judges, individuals who have made significant contributions to the automotive industry or motorsports, award a number of subjective awards to recognize standout vehicles regardless of class ribbons, as well as memorial awards created to honor specific automotive industry personages.\n\nThe first Concours was held in 1983 and was known as the Newport Beach Concours d'Elegance. It was held on the campus of University of California, Irvine for the first 10 years before moving to Pelican Hill Resort. In 2008 the event moved to the Monarch Beach Golf Links at the Monarch Beach Resort in Dana Point and in 2010 the Concours organizing committee officially changed the name of the event to the Dana Point Concours d'Elegance to properly reflect its new home.\n\nEach year's Dana Point Concours honors a featured marque, coachbuilder, type or classification:\n\nHistory of locations:\n\nProspective entrants must submit an application for each car, and the Concours field is selected from each year's pool of applicants. Entrants also come from some of Southern California's leading car collections such as the Nethercutt Collection and Petersen Automotive Museum.\n\nBest of Show winners by year:\n\nThe excess proceeds of the Dana Point Concours d'Elegance support the Ocean Institute, the Mary & Dick Allen Diabetes Center at Hoag Hospital as well as other Southern California youth charities.\n\n"}
{"id": "3879106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3879106", "title": "Dau al Set", "text": "Dau al Set\n\nDau al Set (), the first post-World War II artistic movement in Catalonia, was founded in Barcelona in September 1948 by poet Joan Brossa. The movement, best known for translating the conscious and unconscious mind into art, was heavily influenced by both the Surrealist and Dadaist movements. In Catalan Dau al Set means \"the seventh face of the dice\", which expresses the movement's rupturist character.\n\nDau al Set first began as an avant-garde artistic collective led by Joan Brossa, a Catalan poet, in September 1948. Joan Brossa established the group in response to the period’s conservative reigning government, which gained power after the Spanish Civil War known as the \"\". Under the new fascist regime, Francisco Franco radically changed many areas of the previous culture. One such example was the Spanish art community as seen in art and culture in Francoist Spain. During this time counterculture movements in Catalonia and Spain in general came to an abrupt halt. Such artistic groups were replaced with Nationalist Fascist Art, which often functioned as a means for government endorsement and propaganda. In an attempt to revive the avant-garde scene in Spain Dau al Set was formed.\n\nIn 1949, with help from Joan-Josep Tharrats's private printing press, Dau al Set published its first self-entitled magazine journal. The majority of the publication was written in Catalan, a language prohibited under the Franco Regime. Dau al Set typically ran a print between one hundred and two hundred copies, consisting of four to twelve pages. The magazine journal was delivered throughout Barcelona to those with subscriptions and served a niche population at the time. The format of the magazine was 22.5 cm x 18.7 cm in the broadsheet style and never bound. These publications continued on a regular basis until the end of 1951 at which point Dau al Set began to dissolve.\n\nIn 1952, Dau al Set founding member Antoni Tàpies left the group to promote his own independent work in the Surrealist and Informal art styles. The following year Joan Ponç left to Brazil to continue to paint and spread his unique style. And one year later Modest Cuixcart left the group as well. During this time from 1953 till 1956 Dau al Set continued to be created and published by Joan-Josep Tharrats. During the final years the magazine decreased from an issue a month to an issue every season to then two issues a year. The final issue was created and distributed in 1956.\n\nInitially, Dau al Set began as an offshoot of Surrealism, but slowly grew into a distinct style with many existing components. One such component began with the incorporation of the surrealist world of dreams, where in Dau al Set expands upon by combing scientific and philosophical articles with magical undertones derived from Joan Brossa's personalized style. The use of magical elements pervaded throughout the entire movement to showcase an esoteric world of inner exploration. While magic was seen consistently the different members each contributed a unique style to Dau al Set. One of the most drastic was the contributions from Joan Ponç. Ponç's art frequently contained demonic images actualized with a series of different monsters throughout the work. In contrast, Modest Cuixart's work often contained images of fantasy influenced by German expressionism and Joan Miró. Finally, Antoni Tápies often emulated the style of Paul Klee with obscure images surrounded by a dark atmosphere and phosphorescent lighting. With the base of magical elements these three unique techniques joined together to create the style seen in the Dau al Set movement.\n\nDau al Set was heavily influenced by two movements before its creation, those two being Dadaism and Surrealism. Dadaism was a European art movement in the early 20th century which focused on the avant-garde. This style was meant to fight against the bourgeois in society with the belief that their reason and logic were the cause of war. With an anti-reason and anti-logic sentiment most of the works of art often contained elements of chaos and irrationality. Dadaist art also utilized the following techniques of cubism, collages, cut-up technique, photomontages, and assemblage which can be seen in Dau al Set's work. From this movement spawned the pre-war avant-garde which was the community Dau al Set were trying to revive. Some influential artists on Dau al Set from this movement are Francis Picabia and Max Ernst.\n\nAnother influence on Dau al Set was Surrealism, a cultural movement greatly influenced by Dadaism, which began in the 1920s. This style was often considered a portrayal of the dream world; a reality which existed right below everyday life. It also had a large political focus which was often used to contradict a given community's social norms often imposed by the bourgeois. Some artists from this movement that influenced Dau al Set were Joan Miró, Paul Klee, Josep Vicenç Foix, and Salvador Dalí. Other methods that were influenced was the idea of magical aspects that were often seen in the dream world surrealism created. However, in Dau al Set these magical aspects were developed and expounded upon.\n\nThere were six founding members of Dau al Set including a poet Joan Brossa, a philosopher Arnau Puig, three artists Joan Ponç, Antoni Tàpies, and Modest Cuixart, as well as a dual painter and editor Joan-Josep Tharrats.\n\nOver the years Dau al Set ran there were occasional contributors, such as Juan Eduardo Cirlot, Antonio Saura, Enrique Tábara, and Manolo Millares. Their contributions came often in the form of writings which helped to continued to establish Dau al Set as an intellectual piece of work.\n\nDau al Set actively participated in the exhibition at the Institut Francais and the Sala Caralt.\n\nDau al Set has had a lasting impact throughout history the most notable being the continuation of the avant-garde in Spain throughout a repressive regime. Moreover, Dau al Set contributed to the creation of the Informalist movement seen in Spain during the fifties. Also the magical and fantasy elements of Dau al Set was seen to later emerge again in Spain in the eighties.\n\nThis group also stood as a large influence for other artistic movements in Spain such as the Grup d’Elx and El Paso, with important artists such as Joan Castejón, Eusebio Sempere or Manolo Millares. Additionally, each of the members made their own impacts after the movement was dissolved. Most notably is Antoni Tàpies who continued with his style based heavily in surrealism and later became a notable artist for his work in Abstract art.\n\n"}
{"id": "3614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3614", "title": "Demographics of Botswana", "text": "Demographics of Botswana\n\nThis article is about the demographic features of the population of Botswana, including population density, ethnicity, education level, health of the populace, economic status, religious affiliations and other aspects of the population.\n\nBotswana, like many nations in southern Africa, suffers from a high HIV infection rate, estimated among adults ages 15 to 49 to be 24.8%.\n\nThe seven censuses of Botswana before its independence happened irregularly. Due to the Anglo-Boer War, the first census of Bechuanaland Protectorate, originally set to occur in 1901, took place on 17 April 1904. The 1931 census was postponed to 1936 because of the Great Depression. The early censuses were unreliable and took several years to tabulate; the results were outdated by the time they were calculated.\n\nThere have been five censuses after the independence of Botswana, each occurring every ten years in the year ending in 1 (i.e. 1971, 1981, 1991, 2001, and 2011). The 1971 census was the first census in Botswana to use de facto enumeration; this method counts people based on how many people spent census night at a specific location. Previously, the citizens were counted based on their usual place of residence. The 2001 census was the first census in Botswana to comply with the SADC 2000 Census Project, the guidelines of which unify the demographic statistics in southern Africa. The most recent census was the 2011 Botswana Population and Housing Census, which occurred in August 2011.\n\nAccording to the total population was in , compared to only 413,000 in 1950. The proportion of children below the age of 15 in 2010 was 32.6%, 63.4% was between 15 and 65 years of age, while 4% was 65 years or older.\n\nRegistration of vital events is in Botswana not complete. The Population Departement of the United Nations prepared the following estimates.\n\nBirths and deaths \nSource: Vital Statistics Report 2012.\n\nLife expectancy from 1950 to 2015 (\"UN World Population Prospects\"):\n\nThe following demographic statistics are from the 2017 CIA World Factbook.\n\n"}
{"id": "182235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=182235", "title": "Department of Internal Affairs (New Zealand)", "text": "Department of Internal Affairs (New Zealand)\n\nThe Department of Internal Affairs (DIA; Māori: \"Te Tari Taiwhenua\") is the public service department of New Zealand charged with issuing passports; administering applications for citizenship and lottery grants; enforcing censorship and gambling laws; registering births, deaths, marriages and civil unions; supplying support services to Ministers of the Crown; and advising the government on a range of relevant policies and issues, part of a number of functions performed by Internal Affairs.\n\nOther services provided by the Department include a translation service, publication of the New Zealand Gazette (the official newspaper of the New Zealand Government), a flag hire service, management of VIP visits to New Zealand, running the Lake Taupo harbourmaster's office (under a special agreement with the local iwi) and the administration of offshore islands.\n\nDuring the late 1990s both the National Library of New Zealand and Archives New Zealand were separated from the Department along with the Ministry for Culture and Heritage. On 25 March 2010, the former Minister of State Services Tony Ryall announced that the Library and Archives would be merged into the Department. Library and Archives stakeholders expressed serious concerns about the changes proposed. On 1 February 2011, both were brought into the Department of Internal Affairs.\n\nThe Department of Internal Affairs traces its roots back to the Colonial Secretary's Office, which from the time New Zealand became a British colony, in 1840, was responsible for almost all central Government duties. The Department was the first government department to be established in New Zealand, and it became the home for a diverse range of government functions providing services to New Zealanders and advice to Ministers of the Crown. Hence the title of Michael Bassett's 1997 history of the department: \"The Mother of All Departments\".\n\nMany of these responsibilities were lost as new departments and ministries were formed. The office's name was changed to the Department of Internal Affairs from 19 November 1907. Change has continued to the present day, as new roles and functions have come into the Department and others have been transferred elsewhere.\n\nThe Department of Internal Affairs includes the Office of Ethnic Affairs, which provides information to ethnic communities and policy advice to the government and the Local Government Commission, which makes decisions on the structure and representation requirements of local government. The Department's present activities also include the implementation of recent dog control and local government legislation.\n\nThe Department has responsibility for supporting the community and voluntary sector through the Office for the Community and Voluntary Sector.\n\nThe Chief Executive of the Department of Internal Affairs is also the Government Chief Information Officer (GCIO), with responsibility for developing and overseeing the government's ICT (Information, Communications and Technology) strategy and providing strategic advice on related matters. The Department also includes the National Library of New Zealand, Te Puna Māturanga o Aotearoa and Archives New Zealand, Te Rua Mahara o te Kāwanatanga. These two organisations were integrated into the Department on 1 February 2011\n\nThe Department provides secretariat support for several entities including:\n\n\nThe Department serves 6 portfolios, 7 ministers and a parliamentary under-secretary.\n\nThe following persons have served as the New Zealand Minister of Internal Affairs\nsince the Department of Internal Affairs replaced the Colonial Secretary's office from 19 November 1907.\n\nAn \"invitation to present commercial opportunities\" (IPCO) is a process designed by the department to invite the private sector to present ideas for commercial relationships with government in relation to services already built/created by the government agency. The commercial relationships can include a public-private partnership or other arrangement between the private sector and the government to further develop, fund, innovate, distribute, and ensure uptake and use of the services.\n\nAn IPCO is issued where a government is seeking options that provide it access to private sector specialised expertise, innovative ideas, and funding and the sharing of risk. Extending the reach of the services, while building on the benefits of established branding and related market penetration are also important.\n\nAn IPCO is not a procurement process for goods or services, and it does not signal whether any final decision has been made on any future procurement process or any other action will be taken by government. It is intended to enable government to gauge whether there are organisations interested in, and what options are available for, public-private partnerships or other commercial arrangements to use and/or further develop, fund, innovate, distribute, and ensure uptake and use of a government agency’s services by the public, government agencies and the private sector.\n\nThe IPCO process was developed in August 2009 to assist with collecting information from the private sector to use in advising government on future development and funding options for particular services. The IPCO has been used for two electronic identity services the New Zealand Government has built for government use to provide identity dependent services online. The two services are called the igovt logon service and the igovt identity verification service (igovt services). Government directed the Department of Internal Affairs to invite the market to provide written responses about whether private sector organisations were interested in:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2674134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2674134", "title": "Early Irish astrology", "text": "Early Irish astrology\n\nIt is unclear whether a form of Early Irish astrology existed prior to contact with Western astrology, as the earliest Irish language sources are simply translations from standard Western sources. Historian Peter Berresford Ellis argues that although there is evidence of the development of Irish astrology from the 7th Century AD onwards, anything earlier is left to conjecture based on continental Celtic artifacts like the Coligny calendar. \n\nWhile the pre-Celtic megaliths in Ireland are often aligned with solar and lunar phenomena, no evidence has been found for the type of planetary symbol system as seen in other cultures' systems of astrology.\n"}
{"id": "28143394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28143394", "title": "Feminist effects on society", "text": "Feminist effects on society\n\nThe feminist movement has effected change in Western society, including women's suffrage; greater access to education; more equitable pay with men; the right to initiate divorce proceedings; the right of women to make individual decisions regarding pregnancy (including access to contraceptives and abortion); and the right to own property. Harvard Psychology Professor Steven Pinker argues that feminism has reduced domestic violence, especially against men as their likelihood of being killed by a female intimate partner has decreased six-fold.\n\nFrom the 1960s on, the women's liberation movement campaigned for women's rights, including the same pay as men, equal rights in law, and the freedom to plan their families. Their efforts were met with mixed results. Issues commonly associated with notions of women's rights include, though are not limited to, the right to bodily integrity and autonomy; to vote (universal suffrage); to hold public office; to work; to fair wages or equal pay; to own property; to education; to serve in the military; to enter into legal contracts; and to have marital, parental, and religious rights. Feminists have worked to protect women and girls from child sexual abuse, challenging the prior belief that girls caused men to have sex with them even when the girls were very young.\n\nIn the UK, a public groundswell of opinion in favour of legal equality gained pace, including during the modern movement, partly through the extensive employment of women in men's traditional roles during both world wars. By the 1960s, the legislative process was being readied, tracing through MP Willie Hamilton's select committee report, his Equal Pay for Equal Work Bill, the creation of a Sex Discrimination Board, Lady Sear's draft sex anti-discrimination bill, and a government Green Paper of 1973, until 1975 when the first British Sex Discrimination Act, an Equal Pay Act, and an Equal Opportunities Commission came into force. With encouragement from the UK government, the other countries of the EEC soon followed suit with an agreement to ensure that discriminatory laws would be phased out across the European Community.\n\nIn the U.S., the National Organization for Women (NOW) was created in 1966 with the purpose of bringing about equality for all women. NOW was one important group that fought for the Equal Rights Amendment (ERA). This amendment stated that \"equality of rights under the law shall not be denied or abridged by the United States or any state on account of sex.\" But there was disagreement on how the proposed amendment would be understood. Supporters believed it would guarantee women equal treatment. But critics feared it might deny women the right be financially supported by their husbands. It died in 1982 because not enough states had ratified it. ERAs have been introduced in subsequent Congresses, but have failed to be passed. Nonetheless, various laws advancing women's rights were promulgated, although many issues remained to be resolved.\n\nIn the final three decades of the 20th century, Western women knew a new freedom through birth control, which enabled women to plan their adult lives, often making way for both career and family. The movement had been started in the 1910s by U.S. pioneering social reformer Margaret Sanger and in the UK and internationally by Marie Stopes.\n\nPublication of data and advocacy relevant to rights increased in recent decades. For example, the \"United Nations Human Development Report 2004\" estimated that, when both paid employment and unpaid household tasks are accounted for, on average women work more than men. In rural areas of selected developing countries women performed an average of 20 percent more work than men, or an additional 102 minutes per day. In the OECD countries surveyed, on average women performed 5 percent more work than men, or 20 minutes per day when both paid employment and unpaid household tasks are taken into account.\n\nThe \"Convention on the Elimination of All Forms of Discrimination Against Women\" (CEDAW) is an international convention adopted by the United Nations General Assembly. Described as an international bill of rights for women, it came into force on 3 September 1981. Several countries have ratified the Convention subject to certain declarations, reservations, and objections. Iran, Sudan, Somalia, Qatar, Nauru, Palau, Tonga, and the United States have not ratified CEDAW. Expecting a U.S. Senate vote, NOW has encouraged President Obama to remove U.S. reservations and objections added in 2002 before the vote. The CEDAW does not protect men from any form of discrimination.\n\nIn the U.S., a major focus of political activism has centered on reproductive rights, including for (and, among opponents, against) the decision by the U.S. Supreme Court in the case of \"Roe\" v. \"Wade\" enunciating a Constitutional right for a woman to choose whether to carry a pregnancy to term.\n\nGender-neutral English is a description of language usages which do not recognize gender and are aimed at minimizing assumptions regarding the biological sex of human referents. The advocacy of gender-neutral language reflects, at least, two different agendas: one to clarify the \"inclusion\" of both sexes or genders (gender-inclusive language); the other that gender, as a category, is rarely worth marking in language (gender-neutral language). Gender-neutral language is sometimes described as \"non-sexist language\" by advocates and \"politically correct language\" by opponents.\n\nThe increased entry of women into the workplace beginning in the twentieth century has affected gender roles and the division of labor within households. Sociologist Arlie Russell Hochschild in \"The Second Shift\" and \"The Time Bind\" presented evidence that, in two-career couples, men and women, on average, spend about equal amounts of time working, but women still spend more time on housework. Feminist writer Cathy Young responds to Hochschild's assertions by arguing that, in some cases, women may prevent the equal participation of men in housework and parenting.\n\nFeminist criticisms of men's contributions to child care and domestic labor in the Western middle class are typically centered on the idea that it is unfair for women to be expected to perform more than half of a household's domestic work and child care when both members of the relationship also work outside the home. Several studies provide statistical evidence that the financial income of married men does not affect their rate of attending to household duties.\n\nIn \"Dubious Conceptions\", Kristin Luker discusses the effect of feminism on teenage women's choices to bear children, both in and out of wedlock. She says that, as childbearing out of wedlock has become more socially acceptable, young women, especially poor young women, while not bearing children at a higher rate than in the 1950s, now see less of a reason to get married before having children. Her explanation for this is that the economic prospects for poor men are slim, hence poor women have a low chance of finding a husband who will be able to provide reliable financial support.\n\nAlthough research suggests that, to an extent, both women and men perceive feminism to be in conflict with romance, studies of undergraduates and older adults have shown that feminism has positive impacts on relationship health for women and sexual satisfaction for men, and found no support for negative stereotypes of feminists.\n\nFeminist theology reconsiders the traditions, practices, texts, and theologies of religions from a feminist perspective. Its goals include increasing the role of women among the clergy and religious authorities, reinterpreting male-dominated imagery and language about the deity or deities, determining women's place in relation to career and motherhood, and studying images of women in the religion's sacred texts. Difference feminism offers compatibility with gender-differentiating teachings of many major theologies, although difference feminism, when essentialist, is itself controversial.\n\nChristian feminism is a branch of feminist theology which seeks to interpret and understand Christianity in light of the equality of women and men. Because this equality has been historically ignored, Christian feminists believe their contributions are necessary for a complete understanding of Christianity. While there is no standard set of beliefs among Christian feminists, most agree that God does not discriminate on the basis of biologically determined characteristics such as sex. Their major issues are the ordination of women, male dominance in Christian marriage, and claims of moral deficiency and inferiority of abilities of women compared to men. They also are concerned with the balance of parenting between mothers and fathers and the overall treatment of women in the church. New feminism is a branch of difference feminism situated within Catholicism.\n\nIslamic feminism is concerned with the role of women in Islam and aims for the full equality of all Muslims, regardless of gender, in public and private life. Islamic feminists advocate women's rights, gender equality, and social justice grounded in an Islamic framework. Although rooted in Islam, the movement's pioneers have also utilized secular and Western feminist discourses and recognize the role of Islamic feminism as part of an integrated global feminist movement. Advocates of the movement seek to highlight the deeply rooted teachings of equality in the Quran and encourage a questioning of the patriarchal interpretation of Islamic teaching through the Quran, \"hadith\" (sayings of Muhammad), and \"sharia\" (law) towards the creation of a more equal and just society.\n\nJewish feminism is a movement that seeks to improve the religious, legal, and social status of women within Judaism and to open up new opportunities for religious experience and leadership for Jewish women. Feminist movements, with varying approaches and successes, have opened up within all major branches of Judaism. In its modern form, the movement can be traced to the early 1970s in the United States. According to Judith Plaskow, who has focused on feminism in Reform Judaism, the main issues for early Jewish feminists in these movements were the exclusion from the all-male prayer group or \"minyan\", the exemption from positive time-bound \"mitzvot\", and women's inability to function as witnesses and to initiate divorce.\n\nThe Dianic Wicca or Wiccan feminism is a female-focused and Goddess-centered Wiccan faith that is also known as a feminist religion that teaches witchcraft as every woman's right. It is also one faith of the many practiced in Wicca.\n\nAtheist feminism advocates the equality of men and women within atheism. Atheist feminists also oppose religion, being a major source of female oppression and inequality, believing that all religions are sexist and oppressive to women.\n\nFeminist theology, sometimes referred to as the Goddess movement, is a movement found in several religions to reconsider the traditions, practices, scriptures, and theologies of those religions from a feminist perspective. Some of the goals of feminist theology include increasing the role of women among the clergy and religious authorities, reinterpreting male-dominated imagery and language about the deity or deities, determining women's place in relation to career and motherhood, and studying images of women in the religion's sacred texts. In Wicca, \"the Goddess\" is a deity of prime importance, along with her consort the Horned God. In the earliest Wiccan publications, she is described as a tribal goddess of the witch community, neither omnipotent nor universal, and it was recognised that there was a greater \"Prime Mover\", although the witches did not concern themselves much with this being.\n"}
{"id": "317455", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=317455", "title": "Friulian language", "text": "Friulian language\n\nFriulian () or Friulan (' or, affectionately, ' in Friulian, ' in Italian, ' in German, ' in Slovene) is a Romance language belonging to the Rhaeto-Romance family, spoken in the Friuli region of northeastern Italy. Friulian has around 600,000 speakers, the vast majority of whom also speak Italian. It is sometimes called Eastern Ladin since it shares the same roots as Ladin, but, over the centuries, it has diverged under the influence of surrounding languages, including German, Italian, Venetian, and Slovene. Documents in Friulian are attested from the 11th century and poetry and literature date as far back as 1300. By the 20th century, there was a revival of interest in the language that has continued to this day.\nIn North America the more common English form is Friulan for both the language and the ethnic identity of the people living in Friuli and abroad. Friulan follows the example of Friulano in Italian. See the reference, \"Friulan Dictionary: English–Friulan / Friulan–English.\" Eds. Gianni Nazzi & Deborah Saidero. Udine: Ent Friul tal Mond. 2000.\n\nA question which causes many debates is the influence of the Latin spoken in Aquileia and surrounding areas. Some claim that it had peculiar features that later passed into Friulian. Epigraphs and inscriptions from that period show some variants if compared to the standard Latin language, but most of them are common to other areas of the Roman Empire; often, it is cited that Fortunatianus, the bishop of Aquileia 342 - 357 AD, wrote a commentary to the Gospel in \"sermo rusticus\" (the common/ language), which, therefore, would have been quite divergent from the standard Latin of administration. The text itself did not survive so its language cannot be examined, but its attested existence testifies to a shift of languages while, for example, other important communities of Northern Italy were still speaking Latin. The language spoken before the arrival of the Romans in 181 BC was of Celtic origin since the inhabitants belonged to the Carni, a Celtic population. In modern Friulian, the words of Celtic origins are many (terms referring to mountains, woods, plants, animals, \"inter alia\") and much influence of the original population is shown in toponyms (names of villages with \"-acco\", \"-icco\"). Even influences from the Lombardic language - Friuli was one of their strongholds - are very frequent. In a similar manner, there are unique connections to the modern, nearby Lombard language.\n\nIn Friulian, there are also a plethora of words of German, Slovenian and Venetian origin. From that evidence, scholars today agree that the formation of Friulian dates back to circa 1000 AD, at the same time as other dialects derived from Latin (see Vulgar Latin). The first written records of Friulian have been found in administrative acts of the 13th century, but the documents became more frequent in the following century, when literary works also emerged (\"Frammenti letterari\" for example). The main centre at that time was Cividale. The Friulian language has never acquired official status: legal statutes were first written in Latin, then in Venetian and finally in Italian.\n\nThe idea of unity among Ladin, Romansh and Friulian comes from the Italian historical linguist Graziadio Isaia Ascoli, who was born in Gorizia. In 1871, he presented his theory that these three languages are part of one family, which in the past stretched from Switzerland to Muggia and perhaps also Istria. The three languages are the only survivors of this family and all developed differently. Friulian was much less influenced by German. The scholar Francescato claimed subsequently that until the 14th century, the Venetian language shared many phonetic features with Friulian and Ladin and so he thought that Friulian was a much more conservative language. Many features that Ascoli thought were peculiar to the Rhaeto-Romance languages can, in fact, be found in other languages of Northern Italy.\n\nToday, Friulian is spoken in the province of Udine, including the area of the Carnia Alps, but as well throughout the province of Pordenone, in half of the province of Gorizia, and in the eastern part of the province of Venice. In the past, the language borders were wider since in Trieste and Muggia, local variants of Friulian were spoken. The main document about the dialect of Trieste, or \"tergestino\", is \"Dialoghi piacevoli in dialetto vernacolo triestino\", published by G. Mainati in 1828.\n\nFriuli was, until the 1960s, an area of deep poverty, causing a large number of Friulian speakers to emigrate. Most went to France, Belgium, and Switzerland or outside Europe, to Canada, Mexico, Australia, Argentina, Brazil, Venezuela, the United States, and South Africa. In those countries, there are associations of Friulian immigrants (called \"Fogolâr furlan\") that try to protect their traditions and language.\n\nThe first texts in Friulian date back to the 13th century and are mainly commercial or juridical acts. The examples show that Friulian was used together with Latin, which was still the administrative language. The main examples of literature that have survived (much from this period has been lost) are poems from the 14th century and are usually dedicated to the theme of love and are probably inspired by the Italian poetic movement Dolce Stil Novo. The most notable work is \"Piruç myò doç inculurit\" (which means \"My sweet, coloured pear\"); it was composed by an anonymous author from Cividale del Friuli, probably in 1380.\n\nThere are few differences in the first two rows, which demonstrates that there has not been a great evolution in the language except for several words which are no longer used (for example, \"dum(n) lo\", a word which means \"child\", which was used to be more frequently). A modern Friulian speaker can understand these texts with only a little difficulty.\n\nThe second important period for Friulian literature is the 16th century. The main author of this period was Ermes di Colorêt, who composed over 200 poems.\n\nNotes:\n\nSome notes on orthography (from the perspective of the standard, i.e. Central, dialect):\n\nLong vowels are typical of the Friulian language and greatly influence the Friulian pronunciation of Italian.\n\nFriulian distinguishes between short and long vowels: in the following minimal pairs (long vowels are marked in the official orthography with a circumflex accent):\n\nFriulian dialects differ in their treatment of long vowels. In certain dialects, some of the long vowels are actually diphthongs. The following chart shows how six words (\"sêt\" thirst, \"pît\" foot, \"fîl\" \"wire\", \"pôc\" (a) little, \"fûc\" fire, \"mûr\" \"wall\") are pronounced in four dialects. Each dialect uses a unique pattern of diphthongs (yellow) and monophthongs (blue) for the long vowels:\n\nNote that the vowels \"î\" and \"û\" in the standard language (based on the Central dialects) correspond to two different sounds in the Western dialects (including Codroipo). These sounds are not distributed randomly but correspond to different origins: Latin short in an open syllable produces Western but Central , whereas Latin long produces in both dialects. Similarly, Latin short in an open syllable produces Western but Central , whereas Latin long produces in both dialects. The word \"mûr\", for example, means both \"wall\" (Latin ) and \"(he, she, it) dies\" (Vulgar Latin * from Latin ); both words are pronounced in Central dialects, but respectively and in Western dialects.\n\nLong consonants (ll, rr, and so on), frequently used in Italian, are usually absent in Friulian.\n\nFriulian long vowels originate primarily from vowel lengthening in stressed open syllables when the following vowel was lost. Friulian vowel length has no relation to vowel length in Classical Latin. For example, Latin yields \"vâl\" \"it is worth\" with a long vowel, but Latin yields \"val\" \"valley\" with a short vowel. Long vowels aren't found when the following vowel is preserved, e.g.:\n\nIt is quite possible that vowel lengthening occurred originally in all stressed open syllables, and was later lost in non-final syllables. Evidence of this is found, for example, in the divergent outcome of Vulgar Latin , which becomes in originally closed syllables but in Central Friulian in originally open syllables, including when non-finally. Examples: \"siet\" \"seven\" < Vulgar Latin < Latin , word-final \"pît\" \"foot\" < Vulgar Latin < Latin , non-word-final \"tivit\" \"tepid, lukewarm\" < Vulgar Latin < Latin . \n\nAn additional source of vowel length is compensatory lengthening before lost consonants in certain circumstances, cf. \"pâri\" \"father\" < Latin , \"vôli\" \"eye\" < Latin , \"lîre\" \"pound\" < Latin . This produces long vowels in non-final syllables, and was apparently a separate, later development than the primary lengthening in open syllables. Note, for example, the development of Vulgar Latin in this context: > > \"iê\" , as in \"piêre\" \"stone\" < Latin , differing from the outcome in originally open syllables (see above).\n\nAdditional complications:\n\nSynchronic analyses of vowel length in Friulian often claim that it occurs predictably in final syllables before an underlying voiced obstruent, which is then devoiced. Analyses of this sort have difficulty with long-vowel contrasts that occur non-finally (e.g. \"pâri\" \"father\" mentioned above) or not in front of obstruents (e.g. \"fi\" \"fig\" vs. \"fî\" \"son\", \"val\" \"valley\" vs. \"vâl\" \"it is worth\").\n\nFriulian is quite different from Italian in its morphology; it is, in many respects, closer to French.\n\nIn Friulian as in other Romance languages, nouns are either masculine or feminine (for example, \"il mûr\" (\"the wall\", masculine), \"la cjadree\" (\"the chair\", feminine).\n\nMost feminine nouns end in \"-e\", which is pronounced, unlike in Standard French:\n\n\nSome feminine nouns, however, end in a consonant, including those ending in \"-zion\", which are from Latin.\n\nMost masculine nouns end either in a consonant or in \"-i\".\n\nA few masculine nouns end in \"-e\", including \"sisteme\" (system) and \"probleme\" (problem). They are usually words coming from Ancient Greek. However, because most masculine nouns end in a consonant, it is common to find the forms \"sistem\" and \"problem\" instead, more often in print than in speech.\n\nThere are also a number of masculine nouns borrowed intact from Italian, with a final \"-o\", like \"treno\" (train). Many of the words have been fully absorbed into the language and even form their plurals with the regular Friulian \"-s\" rather than the Italian desinence changing. Still, there are some purists, including those influential in Friulian publishing, who frown on such words and insist that the \"proper\" Friulian terms should be without the final \"-o\". Despite the fact that one almost always hears \"treno\", it is almost always written \"tren\".\n\nThe Friulian definite article (which corresponds to \"the\" in English) is derived from the Latin \"ille\" and takes the following forms:\nBefore a vowel, both \"il\" and \"la\" can be abbreviated to l' in the standard forms. In the spoken language, various other articles are used.\n\nThe indefinite article in Friulian (which corresponds to \"a\" and \"an\" in English) derives from the Latin \"unus\" and varies according to gender:\nA partitive article also exists: des for feminine and dai for masculine: \"des vacjis\" – \"some cows\" and \"dai libris\" - \"some books\"\n\nA Friulian adjective must agree in gender and number with the noun it qualifies. Most adjectives have four forms for singular (masculine and feminine) and plural (masculine and feminine):\n\nNote that in some areas, the feminine is pronounced with different vowels: plural \"brutes\", \"brutas\", or singular \"bruta\", \"bruto\".\n\nThe feminine is formed in several ways from the masculine:\n\nTo form the plural of masculine and feminine nouns ending in -e, the -e is changed to -is.\n\nThe plural of almost all other nouns is just -s. It is always pronounced as voiceless [s], as in English \"cats\", never as voiced [z], as in \"dogs\".\n\nIn some Friulian dialects, there are many words whose final consonant becomes silent when the -s is added. The words include just about all those whose singular form ends in -t. The plural of \"gjat\", for example, is written as \"gjats\" but is pronounced in much of Friuli as if it were \"gjas\". The plural of \"plat\" 'dish', though written as \"plats\", is often pronounced as \"plas\". Other words in this category include \"clâf\" (key) and \"clap\" (stone), whose plural forms, clâfs and claps, are often pronounced with no f or p, respectively (clâs, clas) so the longer a in the former is all that distinguishes it from the latter. Note also that a final -ç, which is pronounced either as the English \"-ch\" (in central Friulian) or as \"-s\", is pluralized in writing as -çs, regardless of whether the pluralized pronunciation is \"-s\" or \"-ts\" (it varies according to dialect): messaç / messaçs (message).\n\nMasculine nouns ending in -l or -li form their plurals by palatalising final -l or -li to -i.\nNotice how these very often correspond to French nouns that form an irregular plural in -\"x\": \"cheval-chevaux, chapeau-chapeaux, cheveu-cheveux, oeil-yeux, genou-genoux\".\n\nFeminine nouns ending in -l have regular plurals.\n\nMasculine nouns ending in -st form their plurals by palatalising the final -t to -cj\n\nSome masculine nouns ending in -t form their plurals by palatalising the final -t to -cj:\n\nNouns ending in \"s\" do not change spelling in the plural, but some speakers may pronounce the plural -s differently from the singular -s.\n\nThe plural of \"an\" (year) has several forms depending on dialect, including \"ain\", \"ains\", \"agn\" and \"agns\". Regardless of pronunciation, the written form is \"agns\".\nThe same happens for the adjective \"bon\" (good), as its plural is \"bogns\".\n\nA feature of Friulian are the clitic subject pronouns. Known in Friulian as \"pleonastics\", are never stressed; they are used together with the verbs to express the subject and can be found before the verb in declarative sentences or immediately after it in case of interrogative or vocative (\"optative\") sentences.\n\nAn example: \"jo o lavori\" means \"I work\"; \"jo lavorio?\" means \"Do I work?\", while \"lavorassio\" means \"I wish I worked\".\n\n\nAn adjective can be made into an adverb by adding -mentri to the ending of the feminine singular form of the adjective (\"lente\" becomes \"lentementri\", slowly), but it can sometimes lose the -e of the adjective (\"facile\" becomes \"facilmentri\", easily). It is more common in the written language; in the spoken language people frequently use other forms or locutions (\"a planc\" for slowly).\n\nMost vocabulary is derived from Latin, with substantial phonological and morphological changes throughout its history. Therefore, many words are shared with the Romance languages,\nHere the composition:\n\nNowadays, Friulian is officially recognized in Italy, supported by law 482/1999, which protects linguistic minorities. Therefore, optional teaching of Friulian has been introduced in many primary schools. An online newspaper is active, and there are also a number of musical groups singing in Friulian and some theatrical companies. Recently, two movies have been made in Friulian (\"Tierç lion\", \"Lidrîs cuadrade di trê\"), with positive reviews in Italian newspapers. In about 40% of the communities in the Province of Udine, road signs are in both Friulian and Italian. There is also an official translation of the Bible. In 2005, a notable brand of beer used Friulian for one of its commercials.\n\nThe main association to foster the use and development of Friulian is the \"Societât filologjiche furlane\", founded in Gorizia in 1919.\n\nEvery city and village in Friuli has two names, one in Italian and one in Friulian. Only the Italian is official and used in administration, but it is widely expected that the Friulian ones will receive partial acknowledgement in the near future. For example, the city of Udine is called \"Udin\" in Friulian, the town of Tolmezzo \"Tumieç\" and the town of Aviano is called both Avian and Pleif.\n\nA challenge that Friulian shares with other minorities is to create a standard language and a unique writing system. The regional law 15/1996 approved a standard orthography, which represents the basis of a common variant and should be used in toponyms, official acts, written documents. The standard is based on Central Friulian, which was traditionally the language used in literature already in 1700 and afterwards (the biggest examples are probably Pieri Çorut's works) but with some changes:\n\nStandard Friulian is called in Friulian \"furlan standard\", \"furlan normalizât\" or from Greek, \"coinè\".\n\nThere have been several critics of the standardisation of Friulian, mainly from speakers of local variants that differ substantially from the proposed standard; they also argue that the standard could eventually kill local variants. The supporters of standardisation refer to the various advantages that a unique form can bring to the language. Above all, it can help to stop the influence of Italian language in the neologisms, which pose a serious threat to Friulian's future development. They also point out that it is a written standard without affecting pronunciation, which can follow local variants.\n\nOpponents of the standardisation, on the other hand, insist that the standard language, being artificially created, is totally inadequate to represent the local variations, particularly from differences in the phonetic pronunciation of the words in each variant that may, in some cases, even require special and different diacritics for writing a single variant.\n\nFour dialects of Friulian can be at least distinguished, all mutually intelligible. They are usually distinguished by the last vowel of many parts of speech (including nouns, adjectives, adverbs), following this scheme:\n\nThe word for \"home\" is \"cjase\" in Central Friulian and \"cjasa\" or \"cjaso\" in other areas. Pier Paolo Pasolini wrote his works in Western Friulian since he learned the language from his mother who was from Casarsa/Cjasarsa, near Pordenone.\n\nIn the 13th century, early literary works in Friulian were based on the language spoken in Cividale del Friuli, which was the most important town in Friuli. The endings in -o, which now is restricted to some villages in Carnia. Later, the main city of Friuli became Udine and the most common ending was -a; only from the 16th century on, -e endings were used in standard Friulian.\n\nIn the official writing system, approved by the Province of Udine and used in official documents, Friulian is written using the Latin script with the c-cedilla (ç). The letter q is used only for personal names and historical toponyms, and in every other case, it is replaced by c. Besides that, k, x, w, and y appear only in loan words so they are not considered part of the alphabet.\nThere are also grave accents (à, è, ì, ò and ù) and circumflex accents (â, ê, î, ô, and û), which are put above the vowels to distinguish between homophonic words or to show stress (the former) and show long vowels (the latter).\n\nAn alternative system is called Faggin-Nazzi from the names of the scholars who proposed it. It is less common, probably also because it is more difficult for a beginner for its use of letters, such as č, that are typical of Slavic languages but seem foreign to native Italian speakers.\n\n\nThe grammar section is based on An introduction to Friulan by R. Pontisso. Some parts are also based loosely on \"Gramatiche furlane\" by Fausto Zof, Edizioni Leonardo, Udine 2002.\n\n"}
{"id": "50980594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50980594", "title": "Ghanaians in Italy", "text": "Ghanaians in Italy\n\nThe presence of Ghanaians in Italy dates back to the 1980s.\n\nIn 2010 in Italy there are 46,890 regular immigrants from Ghana. In 2006 there were 36,540. The three cities with most number of Ghanaians are: Palermo, Modena and Reggio Emilia.\n\nIn Italy the migration from Ghana began in the mid-1980s, when people came over as students driven by economic motives.\n\nThe choice of Italy as a place of destination, it is often due to the ease of obtaining an entry visa, and the difficulty of obtaining an entry permit for other European countries. In fact initially the preferred destinations are Britain, then Germany and the United States, but many of them, the first citation is available and has been for Italy.\nTowards the year 1988 also was easier to get a visa for Italy because there were few immigrants, but Britain was more rigid because many Ghanaians actually entered as tourists stayed permanently.\nThe guys of the second generation who were born in Italy, studying, trying to carve out a space, to achieve a respectable economic independence and parents work very hard to guarantee them a relative stability.\n\n\"Ghanacoop\" was born in Modena in 2005 within the National Association of Ghana and it is one of the first non-profit social enterprises run by immigrants on the Italian territory. It's a concrete example of community enterprise, involving an entire community as a whole of its economic activities, social or cultural.\nThe farm, which involves 135 workers cultivating an area of 400 hectares, exports its products to the British market and, through Ghanacoop, on the Italian market. On the local market the product is sold to both distributors of fresh produce, and for firms engaged in processing for the production of juices, fruit concentrates and fruit cut, or, in the Italian business vocabulary, fourth range.\n\n"}
{"id": "188641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=188641", "title": "Green politics", "text": "Green politics\n\nGreen politics (also known as ecopolitics) is a political ideology that aims to create an ecologically sustainable society rooted in environmentalism, nonviolence, social justice and grassroots democracy. It began taking shape in the western world in the 1970s and since then Green parties have developed and established themselves in many countries around the globe and have achieved some electoral success.\n\nThe political term \"Green\" was used initially in relation to \"die Grünen\" (German for \"the Greens\"), a Green party formed in the late 1970s. The term \"political ecology\" is sometimes used in academic circles, but in the latter has come to represent an interdisciplinary field of study, as the academic discipline offers wide-ranging studies integrating ecological social sciences with political economy in topics such as degradation and marginalization, environmental conflict, conservation and control and environmental identities and social movements.\n\nSupporters of green politics share many ideas with the ecology, conservation, environmentalism, feminism and peace movements. In addition to democracy and ecological issues, green politics is concerned with civil liberties, social justice, nonviolence, sometimes variants of localism and tends to support social progressivism. The party's platform is largely considered left in the political spectrum.\n\nThe Green ideology has connections with various other ecocentric political ideologies, including ecosocialism, ecoanarchism and ecofeminism, but to what extent these can be seen as forms of Green politics is a matter of debate.\n\nAs the left-wing Green (i.e. capital 'G') political philosophy developed, there also came into separate existence unrelated and polar opposite movements on the right that include ecological components such as green conservatism and eco-capitalism.\n\nAdherents to green politics tend to consider it to be part of a 'higher' worldview and not simply a political ideology. Green politics draws its ethical stance from a variety of sources, from the values of indigenous peoples, to the ethics of Gandhi, Spinoza and Uexküll. These people influenced green thought in their advocacy of long-term \"seventh generation\" foresight, and on the personal responsibility of every individual to make moral choices.\n\nOf course, unease about adverse consequences of human actions on nature predates the modern concept of “environmentalism\". Social commentators as far apart as ancient Rome and China complained of air, water and noise pollution.\n\nThe philosophical roots of environmentalism can be traced back to enlightenment thinkers such as Rousseau in France and, later, the author and naturalist Thoreau in America. Organised environmentalism began in late 19th Century Europe and the United States as a reaction to the Industrial Revolution with its emphasis on unbridled economic expansion.\n\n“Green politics” first began as conservation and preservation movements, such as the Sierra Club, founded in San Francisco in 1892.\n\nLeft-green platforms of the form that make up the green parties today draw terminology from the science of ecology, and policy from environmentalism, deep ecology, feminism, pacifism, anarchism, libertarian socialism, social democracy, eco-socialism, and/or social ecology. In the 1970s, as these movements grew in influence, green politics arose as a new philosophy which synthesized their goals.\nThe Green Party political movement is not to be confused with the unrelated fact that in some far-right and fascist parties, nationalism has on occasion been tied into a sort of green politics which promotes environmentalism as a form of pride in the \"motherland\" according to a minority of authors.\n\nIn June 1970 in the Netherlands a group called Kabouters won 5 of the 45 seats on the Amsterdam Gemeenteraad (City Council), as well as two seats each on councils in The Hague and Leeuwarden and one seat apiece in Arnhem, Alkmaar and Leiden. The Kabouters were an outgrowth of Provo’s environmental White Plans and they proposed “Groene Plannen” (“Green Plans”).\n\nThe first political party to be created with its basis in environmental issues was the United Tasmania Group, founded in Australia in March 1972 to fight against deforestation and the creation of a dam that would damage Lake Pedder; whilst it only gained three percent in state elections, it had, according to Derek Wall, \"inspired the creation of Green parties all over the world.\" In May 1972, a meeting at Victoria University of Wellington, New Zealand, launched the \"Values Party\", the world's first countrywide green party to contest Parliamentary seats nationally. In November 1972, Europe's first green party, PEOPLE in the UK came into existence.\n\nThe German Green Party was not the first Green Party in Europe to have members elected nationally but the impression was created that they had been, because they attracted the most media attention: The German Greens, contended in their first national election in 1980. They started as a provisional coalition of civic groups and political campaigns which, together, felt their interests were not expressed by the conventional parties. After contesting the 1979 Euro elections they held a conference which identified Four Pillars of the Green Party which all groups in the original alliance could agree as the basis of a common Party platform: welding these groups together as a single Party. This statement of principles has since been utilised by many Green Parties around the world. It was this party that first coined the term \"Green\" (\"Grün\" in German) and adopted the sunflower symbol. The term \"Green\" was coined by one of the founders of the German Green Party, Petra Kelly, after she visited Australia and saw the actions of the Builders Labourers Federation and their green ban actions. In the 1983 federal election, the Greens won 27 seats in the Bundestag.\n\nThe first Canadian foray into green politics took place in the Maritimes when 11 independent candidates (including one in Montreal and one in Toronto) ran in the 1980 federal election under the banner of the Small Party. Inspired by Schumacher's Small is Beautiful, the Small Party candidates ran for the expressed purpose of putting forward an anti-nuclear platform in that election. It was not registered as an official party, but some participants in that effort went on to form the Green Party of Canada in 1983 (the Ontario Greens and British Columbia Greens were also formed that year). Current Green Party of Canada leader Elizabeth May was the instigator and one of the candidates of the Small Party and she was eventually elected as a member of the Green Party in 2011 Canadian federal election.\n\nIn Finland, in 1995, the Green League became the first European Green Party to form part of a state-level Cabinet. The German Greens followed, forming a government with the Social Democratic Party of Germany (the \"Red-Green Alliance\") from 1998 to 2005. In 2001, they reached an agreement to end reliance on nuclear power in Germany, and agreed to remain in coalition and support the German government of Chancellor Gerhard Schröder in the 2001 Afghan War. This put them at odds with many Greens worldwide, but demonstrated that they were capable of difficult political tradeoffs.\n\nIn Latvia, Indulis Emsis, leader of the Green Party and part of the Union of Greens and Farmers, an alliance of a Nordic agrarian party and the Green Party, was Prime Minister of Latvia for ten months in 2004, making him the first Green politician to lead a country in the history of the world. In 2015, Emsis' party colleague, Raimonds Vējonis, was elected President of Latvia by the Latvian parliament. Vējonis became the first green head of state worldwide.\n\nIn the German state of Baden-Württenburg, the Green Party became the leader of the coalition with the Social Democrats after finishing second in the Baden-Württemberg state election, 2011. In the following state election, 2016, the Green Party became the strongest party for the first time in a German Landtag.\n\nIn 2016, the former leader of the Austrian green party (1997-2008), Alexander Van der Bellen, officially running as an independent, won the Austrian presidential election, 2016, making him the second green head of state worldwide, the first directly elected by popular vote. Van der Bellen became second in the election's first round with 21.3% of the votes, the best result for the Austrian greens in their history. He won the second round run-off against the far-right Freedom party's Norbert Hofer with 53.8% of the votes, making him the first President of Austria who was not backed by either the People's or the Social Democratic party.\n\nAccording to Derek Wall, a prominent British Green proponent, there are four pillars that define Green politics:\n\nIn 1984, the Green Committees of Correspondence in the United States expanded the Four Pillars into Ten Key Values which, in addition to the Four Pillars mentioned above, include:\n\nIn 2001, the Global Greens were organized as an international Green movement. The Global Greens Charter identified six guiding principles:\n\nGreen economics focuses on the importance of the health of the biosphere to human well-being. Consequently, most Greens distrust conventional capitalism, as it tends to emphasize economic growth while ignoring ecological health; the \"full cost\" of economic growth often includes damage to the biosphere, which is unacceptable according to green politics. Green economics considers such growth to be \"uneconomic growth\"— material increase that nonetheless lowers overall quality of life. Green economics inherently takes a longer term perspective than conventional economics, because such loss in quality of life is often delayed. According to green economics, the present generation should not borrow from future generations, but rather attempt to achieve what Tim Jackson calls \"prosperity without growth\".\n\nSome Greens refer to productivism, consumerism and scientism as \"grey\", as contrasted with \"green\", economic views. \"Grey\" implies age, concrete, and lifelessness.\nThis is a Quality image. Click here for more information. This is a valued image. Click here for more information.\n\nTherefore, adherents to green politics advocate economic policies designed to safeguard the environment. Greens want governments to stop subsidizing companies that waste resources or pollute the natural world, subsidies that Greens refer to as \"dirty subsidies\". Some currents of green politics place automobile and agribusiness subsidies in this category, as they may harm human health. On the contrary, Greens look to a green tax shift that are seen to encourage both producers and consumers to make ecologically friendly choices.\n\nMany aspects of green economics could be considered anti-globalist. According to many left-wing greens, economic globalization is considered a threat to well-being, which will replace natural environments and local cultures with a single trade economy, termed the global economic monoculture. This is not a universal policy of greens, as green liberals and green conservatives support a regulated free market economy with additional measures to advance sustainable development\n\nSince green economics emphasizes biospheric health and biodiversity, an issue outside the traditional left-right spectrum, different currents within green politics incorporate ideas from socialism and capitalism. Greens on the Left are often identified as Eco-socialists, who merge ecology and environmentalism with socialism and Marxism and blame the capitalist system for environmental degradation, social injustice, inequality and conflict. Eco-capitalists, on the other hand, believe that the free market system, with some modification, is capable of addressing ecological problems. This belief is documented in the business experiences of eco-capitalists in the book, \"The Gort Cloud\" that describes the gort cloud as the green community that supports eco-friendly businesses.\n\nSince the beginning, green politics has emphasized local, grassroots-level political activity and decision-making. According to its adherents, it is crucial that citizens play a direct role in the decisions that influence their lives and their environment. Therefore, green politics seeks to increase the role of deliberative democracy, based on direct citizen involvement and consensus decision making, wherever it is feasible.\n\nGreen politics also encourages political action on the individual level, such as ethical consumerism, or buying things that are made according to environmentally ethical standards. Indeed, many green parties emphasize individual and grassroots action at the local and regional levels over electoral politics. Historically, green parties have grown at the local level, gradually gaining influence and spreading to regional or provincial politics, only entering the national arena when there is a strong network of local support.\n\nIn addition, many Greens believe that governments should not levy taxes against strictly local production and trade. Some Greens advocate new ways of organizing authority to increase local control, including urban secession, bioregional democracy, and co-operative / local stakeholder ownership.\n\nAlthough Greens in the United States \"call for an end to the 'War on Drugs'\" and \"for decriminalization of victimless crimes\", they also call for developing \"a firm approach to law enforcement that directly addresses violent crime, including trafficking in hard drugs\".\n\nIn Europe, Green parties tend to support the creation of a democratic federal Europe.\n\nIn the spirit of nonviolence, Green politics opposes the War on Terrorism and the curtailment of civil rights, focusing instead on nurturing deliberative democracy in war-torn regions and the construction of a civil society with an increased role for women.\n\nIn keeping with their commitment to the preservation of diversity, greens are often committed to the maintenance and protection of indigenous communities, languages, and traditions. An example of this is the Irish Green Party's commitment to the preservation of the Irish Language.\nSome of the green movement has focused on divesting in fossil fuels. Academics Stand Against Poverty states \"it is paradoxical for universities to remain invested in fossil fuel companies\". Thomas Pogge says that the fossil fuel divestment movement can increase political pressure at events like the international climate change conference (COP). Alex Epstein of Forbes notes that it is hypocritical to ask for divestment without a boycott and that a boycott would be more effective. Some institutions that are leading by example in the academic area are Stanford University, Syracuse University, Sterling College and over 20 more. A number of cities, counties and religious institutions have also joined the movement to divest.\n\nGreen politics mostly opposes nuclear fusion power and the buildup of persistent organic pollutants, supporting adherence to the precautionary principle, by which technologies are rejected unless they can be proven to not cause significant harm to the health of living things or the biosphere.\n\nGreen platforms generally favor tariffs on fossil fuels, restricting genetically modified organisms, and protections for ecoregions or communities.\n\nGreen ideology emphasizes participatory democracy and the principle of \"thinking globally, acting locally\". As such, the ideal Green Party is thought to grow from the bottom up, from neighborhood to municipal to (eco-)regional to national levels. The goal is to rule by a consensus decision making process.\n\nStrong local coalitions are considered a pre-requisite to higher-level electoral breakthroughs. Historically, the growth of Green parties has been sparked by a single issue where Greens can appeal to ordinary citizens' concerns. In Germany, for example, the Greens' early opposition to nuclear power won them their first successes in the federal elections.\n\nThere is a growing level of global cooperation between Green parties. Global gatherings of Green Parties now happen. The first Planetary Meeting of Greens was held 30–31 May 1992, in Rio de Janeiro, immediately preceding the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development held there. More than 200 Greens from 28 nations attended. The first formal Global Greens Gathering took place in Canberra, in 2001, with more than 800 Greens from 72 countries in attendance. The second Global Green Congress was held in São Paulo, Brazil, in May 2008, when 75 parties were represented.\n\nGlobal Green networking dates back to 1990. Following the Planetary Meeting of Greens in Rio de Janeiro, a Global Green Steering Committee was created, consisting of two seats for each continent. In 1993 this Global Steering Committee met in Mexico City and authorized the creation of a Global Green Network including a Global Green Calendar, Global Green Bulletin, and Global Green Directory. The Directory was issued in several editions in the next years. In 1996, 69 Green Parties from around the world signed a common declaration opposing French nuclear testing in the South Pacific, the first statement of global greens on a current issue. A second statement was issued in December 1997, concerning the Kyoto climate change treaty.\n\nAt the 2001 Canberra Global Gathering delegates for Green Parties from 72 countries decided upon a Global Greens Charter which proposes six key principles. Over time, each Green Party can discuss this and organize itself to approve it, some by using it in the local press, some by translating it for their web site, some by incorporating it into their manifesto, some by incorporating it into their constitution. This process is taking place gradually, with online dialogue enabling parties to say where they are up to with this process.\n\nThe Gatherings also agree on organizational matters. The first Gathering voted unanimously to set up the \"Global Green Network\" (GGN). The GGN is composed of three representatives from each Green Party. A companion organization was set up by the same resolution: \"Global Green Coordination\" (GGC). This is composed of three representatives from each Federation (Africa, Europe, The Americas, Asia/Pacific, see below). Discussion of the planned organization took place in several Green Parties prior to the Canberra meeting. The GGC communicates chiefly by email. Any agreement by it has to be by unanimity of its members. It may identify possible global campaigns to propose to Green Parties worldwide. The GGC may endorse statements by individual Green Parties. For example, it endorsed a statement by the US Green Party on the Israel-Palestine conflict.\n\nThirdly, Global Green Gatherings are an opportunity for informal networking, from which joint campaigning may arise. For example, a campaign to protect the New Caledonian coral reef, by getting it nominated for World Heritage Status: a joint campaign by the New Caledonia Green Party, New Caldonian indigenous leaders, the French Green Party, and the Australian Greens. Another example concerns Ingrid Betancourt, the leader of the Green Party in Colombia, the Green Oxygen Party (\"Partido Verde Oxigeno\"). Ingrid Betancourt and the party's Campaign Manager, Claire Rojas, were kidnapped by a hard-line faction of FARC on 7 March 2002, while travelling in FARC-controlled territory. Betancourt had spoken at the Canberra Gathering, making many friends. As a result, Green Parties all over the world have organized, pressing their governments to bring pressure to bear. For example, Green Parties in African countries, Austria, Canada, Brazil, Peru, Mexico, France, Scotland, Sweden and other countries have launched campaigns calling for Betancourt's release. Bob Brown, the leader of the Australian Greens, went to Colombia, as did an envoy from the European Federation, Alain Lipietz, who issued a report. The four Federations of Green Parties issued a message to FARC. Ingrid Betancourt was rescued by the Colombian military in Operation Jaque in 2008.\n\nSeparately from the Global Green Gatherings, \"Global Green Meetings\" take place. For instance, one took place on the fringe of the World Summit on Sustainable Development in Johannesburg. Green Parties attended from Australia, Taiwan, Korea, South Africa, Mauritius, Uganda, Cameroon, Republic of Cyprus, Italy, France, Belgium, Germany, Finland, Sweden, Norway, the USA, Mexico and Chile.\n\nThe Global Green Meeting discussed the situation of Green Parties on the African continent; heard a report from Mike Feinstein, former Mayor of Santa Monica, about setting up a web site of the GGN; discussed procedures for the better working of the GGC; and decided two topics on which the Global Greens could issue statements in the near future: Iraq and the 2003 WTO meeting in Cancun.\n\nAffiliated members in Asia, Pacific and Oceania form the Asia-Pacific Green Network.\nThe member parties of the Global Greens are organised into four continental federations:\n\nThe European Federation of Green Parties formed itself as the European Green Party on 22 February 2004, in the run-up to European Parliament elections in June 2004, a further step in trans-national integration.\n\nGreen politics is usually said to include the green anarchism, eco-anarchism, green libertarianism, green liberalism, anti-nuclear movements, and peace movements, although these often claim not to be aligned with any party. Some claim it also includes feminism, pacifism and the animal rights movements. Some Greens support policy measures to empower women, especially mothers, great ape personhood; to oppose war, to de-escalate conflicts, and to stop proliferating technologies useful in conflict or likely to lead to conflict.\n\nGreens on the Left adhere to eco-socialism, an ideology that combines ecology, environmentalism, socialism, and Marxism to criticize the capitalist system as the cause of ecological crises, social exclusion, inequality, and conflict. Green parties are not eco-socialist, but some Green parties around the world have or have had a significant eco-socialist membership.\n\nDespite this stereotype, some centrist Greens may subscribe to a more classical liberal Georgist or geolibertarian philosophy emphasizing individual property rights and free-market environmentalismand shifting taxes away from value created by labor or service and charging instead for human consumption of the wealth created by the natural world (see \"land value tax\" and \"ecotax\").\n\nGreens may view the processes by which living beings compete for mates, homes, and food, ecology, and the cognitive and political sciences very differently. These differences tend to drive debate on ethics, formation of policy, and the public resolution of these differences in leadership races. There is no single \"Green Ethic\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3448571", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3448571", "title": "Kalhora", "text": "Kalhora\n\nThe Kalhoro/Kalhora' (written in Sindhi: ڪلهوڙو/ڪلهوڙا) is a Sindhi tribe and are the descendants of Abbas ibn Abd al-Muttalib, the paternal uncle and Sahabi (Companion) of Prophet Muhammad.\n\nThe Kalhora dynasty ruled Sindh and some parts of the modern Punjab region of Pakistan for nearly a century (1701 - 1783) CE.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21044654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21044654", "title": "L. R. Eswari", "text": "L. R. Eswari\n\nLourde-Mary Rajeswari Eswari (L. R. Eswari) is a veteran playback singer of the Tamil cinema, Telugu cinema, Malayalam cinema and Kannada cinema industries. She also sang in other languages like Hindi, Tulu, and English.\nShe has won Kalaimamani, the Tamil Nadu's state award, for her contributions to the film industry.\n\nShe was born in Chennai into a Roman Catholic family to Anthony Devraj and Regina Mary Nirmala. Her ancestors were from Paramakudi near Madurai. Her full name is Lourde-Mary Rajeshwari. The 78 RPM vinyl record containing her songs in her debut film \"Nalla Idathu Sammanthan\" shows her name as D. L. Rajeswari. Since there was already another established singer with the name of M. S. Rajeswari her name was abbreviated into L.R.Eshwari. She did not have any formal training in singing. Her mother was a chorus singer in films. Eshwari used to accompany her mother to the studios and soon began singing in the chorus herself, but quickly got a break to lend her voice as lead-singer.<br>\nHer first song as a playback singer was \"Inba Naalidhe\" in the film Manohara as a chorus singer with Jikki. Music was scored by S. V. Venkatraman.\nHer first break came from Thiru. K.V.Mahadevan in 1958 in the movie \"Nalla Idaththu Sammandham\", her first solo song recorded in this movie was \"Ivarey Thaan Avarey\". But major recognition came from the song \"Vaarai En Thozhi Vaaraayo\" from the movie \"Paasa Malar\" (1961) sung under the baton of Viswanathan-Ramamurthy, which composers explored and exploited her vocal abilities to the maximum extent possible over the next 20 years.\n\nShe sang under the direction of famous composers like M.S.Viswanathan, T.K.Ramamoorthy, K. V. Mahadevan, Veda, V.Kumar, Shankar-Ganesh, G. K. Venkatesh and Kunnakudi Vaidyanathan. Her unique voice was considered to be suited for peppy numbers in the movies, be it a dance tune, folk song or a devotional track. Her song \"Vaarayo Thozhi\" from \"Paasa Malar\" was a popular choice for wedding music.\n\nShe has also recorded many devotional albums in praise of the Goddess Amman which were hugely popular among the Tamil community and were played in many temples. Her \"Chellatha\" and \"Karpoora Nayagi\" numbers has won her a lot of fame among devotees. She sang Christmas songs \"Varuvai Varuvai\" and \" Deivam Thantha Divya Kumaaran\" composed by Dr Anand Chellappa.\nShe has won the Kalaimamani Award and other states awards.\nHer Hindi song \"Uduthi Hi Chidiya\" from the film \"Pistonwali\", music by Satyam shows her ability.\nShe sang romantic songs filmed on heroines as well as cabarets filmed on dance-artistes and also folk songs.\n\nShe made her everlasting impression in Telugu film industry with her husky and peppy numbers. Till date most of her songs are very popular among the Telugu audience. Her notable hits include \"Masaka Masaka Cheekatilo\" from \"Devudu Chesina Manushulu\", \"Maayadari Sinnodu\" from \"Ammamaata\", \"Bhale Bhale Magadivo\" from \"Marocharitra\", \"Arey Yemiti Lokam\" from \"Anthulenikatha\", \"Le Le Le Naa Raaja\" from \"Premnagar\", \"Malle Puvvulu Pillagaalulu\" and \"Theesko Coco Cola Esko Rammusoda\" etc.\n\nIn Kannada language, Eshwari has sung so many super hits songs. Her fun-filled songs like \"Dooradinda Bandantha\", \"Rasika Rasika\", \"Joke Nanu Balliya\", \"O Geleya\", \"Yaavurayya E Mukka\", \"Sityako Sidukyako\", \"Sumabaleya Premada Siriye\", \"Bangara Nota\", \"Kanda Kanmaniye\" made her name household in Karnataka.\n\nP.Susheela and She sang many popular duets in their times – Unadhu Malar, Chiththira Poovizhi, Ninaithaal Sirippu, Thoodhu Sella etc.. She sang a popular duet \"Gudilona Naa Swamy Koluvai Unnadu\" with S. Janaki in a Telugu movie \"Idalokam\", music by Chakravarthy, which remains a top hit till date. She rendered several duets with S. Janaki in Kannada movies as well.\n\nShe sang various duets with all the leading male singers also – Ghantasala Venkateswara Rao, the Telugu doyen in his own music direction in Telugu movie \"Pandava Vana Vaasam\", and in K. V. Mahadevan's music direction in \"Prem Nagar\", T. M. Soundararajan, A. L. Raghavan, P. B. Sreenivas, S.P. Balasubramaniam, K. J. Yesudas, J. P. Chandrababu, C. S. Jayaraman, S. C. Krishnan, Thiruchi Loganathan, A. M. Rajah, Seerkazhi Govindarajan,Malaysia Vasudevan, & Jayachandran.\n\nShe also sang duets with female singers with most notably with\nP. Suseela, S. Janaki, Vani Jayaram, K. Jamuna Rani, M. S. Rajeswari and Soolamangalam Rajalakshmi.\n\nAfter a long break, she made her re-entry through a rocky peppy Tamil Song \"Kalasala Kalasala \" in the 2011 movie \"Osthe\" starring Silambarasan. Within a few days of this song release, it became a super hit and reached music box office top ratings. She sang the song \"Naa Poondamallida\" in the film \"Thadaiyara Thaakka\" the following year. She has also recently sang a Kannada song for the movie \"Victory\", named \"Yakka Nin Magalu Nanage\" with Kailash Kher which also become super hit. In 2013, she sang a duet song called \"Thagadu Thagadu\" along with T. Rajendar in the movie Arya Surya. In 2014 she sang the song \"Jaipuril Jaipuril\" in the movie \"Athithi\", music by Bharathwaj.\n\n"}
{"id": "3962291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3962291", "title": "Las Bela (princely state)", "text": "Las Bela (princely state)\n\nLas Bela () was a princely state in a subsidiary alliance with British India (later a princely state of Pakistan) which existed until 1955. The state occupied an area of in the extreme southeast of the Balochistan region, with an extensive coastline on the Arabian Sea to the south. Las Bela was bordered by the princely states of Kalat and Makran to the north and west. To the east lay the province of Sind and to the southeast lay the Federal Capital Territory around the city of Karachi.\n\nThe State of Las Bela was founded in 1742 by Jam Ali Khan I. His descendants ruled Las Bela until 1955 when the state became part of West Pakistan. The statement of Ghulam Qadir Khan the last Jam of Las Bela on signing the accession was:\n\nFor a period of three years between 3 October 1952 and 14 October 1955, Las Bela was part of the Baluchistan States Union but retained internal autonomy. In 1955, Las Bela was incorporated into the new province of West Pakistan and became part of Kalat division. In 1962, the area of Las Bela was detached from Kalat division and merged with the former Federal Capital Territory to form the division of Karachi-Bela. When the provincial system was changed in 1970, Las Bela became part of the new province of Balochistan.\n\nThe main ethnic groups in Las Bela are Baloch and Sindhis . The population was mainly Muslim Baloch and Sindhis but there was a small population of Hindus.\n\nLas Bela has a hot, dry tropical desert climate. It is only a few degrees north of the Tropic of Cancer. The sea breezes though make the weather less extreme than inland Balochistan, where in the summer.\n\nThe hereditary rulers of Las Bela were styled as Jam Sahib. The Samma Dynasty took the title of Jam, the local equivalent of \"King\" or \"Sultan\".\n\nProminent members of the family after the end of the princely state included:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20858246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20858246", "title": "List of astrological organizations", "text": "List of astrological organizations\n\nThis is a list of notable astrological organizations. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "52903626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52903626", "title": "Magnet fishing", "text": "Magnet fishing\n\nMagnet fishing, also called magnetic fishing, is searching in outdoor waters for Ferromagnetic objects available to pull with a strong neodymium magnet.\n\nThe hobby has been adopted by celebrities such as James Haskell, the English rugby player.\n\nThe hobby is a combination of environmentalism and treasure hunting. The magnets used are strong enough to remove large debris such as discarded bicycles, guns, safes, bombs, coins and car tire rims from bodies of water, but many who engage in the hobby are hoping to find rare and valuable items as well. \n\nIt is thought magnet fishing was initially started by boaters using magnets to recover fallen keys from the water. Today magnet retrieval tools are specially designed to retrieve items that are lost at the bottom of bodies of water. There are two main types of magnets. These are double sided and single sided magnets. \n\nPeople who engage in the hobby may be referred to as \"magnetfishers,\" \"magneteers,\" \"MF'ers\" or \"neodemons,\" (a play on neodymium). With the hobby still in its infancy none of the names has taken root yet.\n\nThere have been no major reports of magnetfishers failing to observe landowners, local authority regulations concerning outdoor waters, or seeking permissions where appropriate. However it is illegal, and punishable by a ₤25 fine, to magnetfish, or remove any material from canal or inland navigation under the control of the Canal & River Trust in England or Wales, other than the Lee and Stort Navigation, Gloucester and Sharpness Canal, and River Severn Navigation. Trust spokesperson Fran Read stated \"Magnet fishing can have its dangers, and consequently it is expressly prohibited by the Trust.\" An example of this being A news report by ITV Central which included a video of a family recording an incident of one of their children pulling a sawn-off shotgun out of Titford Canal in Oldbury, West Midlands, on Sunday 26 August. They later rang the police and the gun was removed and taken for analysis. The Trust refrains from legal action for first-time offenders.\n\nAmateur magnetfishers in Belgium helped the police by recovering new evidence, specifically firearms and ammunition, related to the crimes of the Brabant killers. \n\nIn general, Police urge those that find weapons or similar items to contact them.\n\n"}
{"id": "20631105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20631105", "title": "Mali Red Cross", "text": "Mali Red Cross\n\nMali Red Cross, also known as CRM, was founded in 1965 on the basis of the Geneva Conventions of August 1949 and of the order of 59 PCG 28 March 1959 governing associations and NGOs in the Republic of Mali. It is headquartered in Bamako. The primary goal of the Mali Red Cross is to provide aid to people suffering the combined effects of armed conflict, promote nutrition and health, and provide assistance during food shortages. The International Federation of Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies (IFRC) recognized the Mali Red Cross on September 14, 1967 as the 109 national society of the Red Cross and Red Crescent Societies.\n\nOn February 8, 2014, five Malian humanitarian workers, four of them whom were Mali Red Cross workers, were reported missing by the IFRC. Reportedly, the humanitarian workers were traveling on a road between the northern towns of Kidal and Gao in Northern Mali before their disappearance. The abductions led to a temporary suspension in the movement of Mali Red Cross staff members in the northern region. On February 11, an Islamist militant group, the Movement for Oneness and Jihad in West Africa, or MUJAO, claimed responsibility for the kidnapping of the five Malian workers. On April 17, 2014, a news release by the Bamako-based IFRC reported that the abducted Mali Red Cross workers had been freed during an undisclosed military operation conducted by French military forces. Two of the workers suffered minor injuries. The remaining three went unharmed.\n\nThe first case of the Ebola virus disease in Mali was detected in October 2014. In response, the Mali Red Cross in collaboration with the IFRC and other healthcare organizations throughout Mali launched an Ebola operation in order to combat and prevent the possibility of an Ebola outbreak. With only a total of eight cases that resulted in six deaths, the response was relatively successful. Mali was declared Ebola-free on January 18, 2015.\n\nIn 2014, the Mali Red Cross distributed over 15,000 tons of food, provided access to drinking water for 240,000 people, and secured 4,100 detainee visits.\n\nhttp://www.ifrc.org/en/what-we-do/where-we-work/africa/mali-red-cross/\n\nhttps://www.nytimes.com/2012/03/17/world/africa/mali-red-cross-appeals-for-help.html?_r=0\n\nhttps://news.vice.com/article/militants-claim-of-mali-red-cross-kidnapping-signals-resurgence\n\nhttps://www.icrc.org/en/where-we-work/africa/mali\n\nhttps://www.theguardian.com/global-development/2014/feb/11/mali-red-cross-team-abducted-islamists-movement-oneness-jihad\n\nhttps://www.icrc.org/eng/resources/documents/news-release/2014/04-17-mali-icrc-team-released.htm\n\nhttp://www.ifrc.org/en/news-and-media/news-stories/africa/mali/mali-red-cross-aids-thousands-fleeing-cote-divoire-conflict/\n\n"}
{"id": "54135862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54135862", "title": "Marc Gertz", "text": "Marc Gertz\n\nMarc G. Gertz is an American criminologist and professor at the Florida State University College of Criminology and Criminal Justice. His research includes an influential 1995 survey he conducted with his Florida State University colleague, Gary Kleck, on the frequency of defensive gun use. He has also researched the arrest rate among National Football League players relative to the general population, as well as the relationship between the number of penalties these players receive during games and the number of times those players are arrested.\n\n"}
{"id": "513646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=513646", "title": "Middle America (United States)", "text": "Middle America (United States)\n\nMiddle America is a colloquial term for the United States heartland, especially the culturally rural and suburban areas of the United States. \n\nMiddle America is generally used as both a geographic and cultural label, suggesting a Central United States small town or suburb where most people are middle class, Evangelical Christian or Mainline Protestant and typically of European descent.\n\nGeographically, the label \"Middle America\" refers to the territory between the East Coast of the United States (particularly the northeast) and the West Coast. The term has been used in some cases to refer to the inland portions of coastal states, especially if they are rural. Alternately, the term is used to describe the central United States.\n\nMiddle America is contrasted with the more culturally progressive urban areas of the country, particularly, those of the East and West Coasts. The conservative values considered typical of Middle America (often called \"family values\" in American politics) are often called \"Middle American values\".\n\nThe idea of \"Middle America\" may exclude locations such as Chicago (the third largest city in the United States and one of the world's alpha cities) and very wealthy cities such as Aspen, Colorado. The coastal regions of the Southern United States are implicitly included. \n\nThe plots of such American films as \"Sweet Home Alabama\" and \"The Judge\" center on the contrast between big city life and that of a typical \"Middle America\" small town; in both, a protagonist with a successful big city career is drawn back to an old hometown. Similarly, the protagonist of John Grisham's novel \"The Associate\" leaves a well-paid job at a giant Wall Street law firm and goes to work with his lawyer father in his hometown, York, Pennsylvania. The contrast between \"Middle America\" and big city America is evident in the life of the fictional superhero Superman - growing up as Superboy in the archetypal Smallville and as an adult moving to the equally archetypal Metropolis. The depiction of Ron Kovic's childhood in the early parts of \"Born on the Fourth of July\" also fits the cultural perceptions of \"Middle America\" (though Kovic's hometown, Massapequa, is physically located in Long Island). The same applies to the episode of Ayn Rand's novel \"The Fountainhead\" which is set in Clayton, Ohio and which depicts that town as the archetype of \"Middle America\", the polar opposite of the cosmopolitan New York City where most of the novel's plot takes place.\n\nRecently, there has been a diversification in the demographics traditionally attributed to Middle America. Individuals and families of various ethnic backgrounds, including Asians and Hispanics, have started to reside in small towns in various interior states, including, but not limited to, Oklahoma, Kansas, Ohio and Missouri.\n\nThe economy of Middle America is supported by agricultural worker and industry labor. Housing prices tend to be significantly less volatile than those on the coasts, and houses tend to appreciate in value more slowly.\n\nThe phrase \"Middle American values\" is a political cliché; like \"family values,\" it refers to more traditional or conservative politics, although larger cities such as St. Louis, Missouri, and Minneapolis, Minnesota, and major university towns such as Madison, Wisconsin; Champaign, Illinois; Bloomington, Indiana; Columbus, Ohio; Lawrence, Kansas; and Austin, Texas, are exceptions.\n\nMany of the political battleground states are situated in \"Middle America.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "65668", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=65668", "title": "Mixed economy", "text": "Mixed economy\n\nA mixed economy is variously defined as an economic system blending elements of market economies with elements of planned economies, free markets with state interventionism, or private enterprise with public enterprise. There is no single definition of a mixed economy, but rather two major definitions recognized for a \"mixed economy\". The first of these definitions refers to a mixture of markets with state interventionism, referring to capitalist market economies with strong regulatory oversight, interventionist policies and governmental provision of public services. The second definition is apolitical in nature and strictly refers to an economy containing a mixture of private enterprise with public enterprise.\n\nIn most cases, and particularly with reference to Western economies, the term \"mixed economy\" refers to a capitalist economy characterized by the predominance of private ownership of the means of production with profit-seeking enterprise and the accumulation of capital as its fundamental driving force. In such a system, markets are subject to varying degrees of regulatory control and governments wield indirect macroeconomic influence through fiscal and monetary policies with a view to counteracting capitalism's history of boom/bust cycles, unemployment and income disparities. In this framework, varying degrees of public utilities and essential services operate under public ownership and state activity is often limited to providing public goods and universal civic requirements - such as healthcare, physical infrastructure and management of public lands.\n\nIn reference to post-war Western and Northern European economic models as championed by Christian democrats and social democrats, the mixed economy is defined as a form of capitalism where most industries are privately owned with only a small number of public utilities and essential services under public ownership. In the post-war era, European social democracy became associated with this economic model. As an economic ideal, mixed economies are supported by people of various political persuasions, typically centre-left and centre-right, such as social democrats\nor Christian democrats.\n\nThe label \"mixed economy\" can also refer to socialist economies with a substantial role for non-social or non-public forms of ownership in the means of production, or to Soviet-type planned economies that have been reformed to allow a greater role for market forces.\n\nThere is not only one definition of a mixed economy. However, there are generally two major definitions, one being political and the other apolitical.\n\nThe political definition of a mixed economy refers to the degree of state interventionism in a market economy, portraying the state as encroaching onto the market under the assumption that the market is the \"natural\" mechanism for allocating resources. The political definition is limited to capitalistic economies and precludes an extension to non-capitalist systems, being concerned with public policy and state influence in the market. On the other hand, the apolitical definition relates to patterns of ownership and management of economic enterprises in an economy.\n\nThe apolitical definition of mixed economy strictly refers to a mix of public and private ownership of enterprises in the economy and is unconcerned with political forms and public policy.\n\nThe term \"mixed economy\" arose in the context of political debate in the United Kingdom in the postwar period, although the set of policies later associated with the term had been advocated from at least the 1930s. Supporters of the mixed economy, including R. H. Tawney, Anthony Crosland and Andrew Shonfield were mostly associated with the British Labour Party, although similar views were expressed by Conservatives including Harold Macmillan. Critics of the mixed economy, including Ludwig von Mises and Friedrich von Hayek, argued that there can be no lasting middle ground between economic planning and a market economy and any move in the direction of socialist planning is an unintentional move toward what Hilaire Bloc called \"the servile state\".\n\nIn the apolitical sense, the term \"mixed economy\" is used to describe economic systems which combine various elements of market economies and planned economies. As most political-economic ideologies are defined in an idealized sense, what is described rarely—if ever—exists in practice. Most would not consider it unreasonable to label an economy that, while not being a perfect representation, very closely resembles an ideal by applying the rubric that denominates that ideal. When a system in question, however, diverges to a significant extent from an idealized economic model or ideology, the task of identifying it can become problematic. Hence, the term \"mixed economy\" was coined. As it is unlikely that an economy will contain a perfectly even mix, mixed economies are usually noted as being skewed towards either private ownership or public ownership, toward capitalism or socialism, or toward a market economy or command economy in varying degrees.\n\nJesuit author David Hollenbach, S.J. has argued that Catholic social teaching calls for a \"new form\" of mixed economy. He refers back to Pope Pius XI's statement that government \"should supply help to the members of the social body, but may never destroy or absorb them\". Hollenbach writes that a socially just mixed economy involves labour, management and the state working together through a pluralistic system that distributes economic power widely.\n\nHowever, subsequent scholars have noted that conceiving of subsidiarity as a \"top-down, government-driven political exercise\" requires a selective reading of 1960s encyclicals. A more comprehensive reading of Catholic social teaching suggests a conceptualization of subsidiarity as a \"bottom-up concept\" that is \"rooted in recognition of a common humanity, not in the political equivalent of \"noblese oblige\"\".\n\nIn the early post-war era in Western Europe, social democratic parties rejected the Stalinist political and economic model then current in the Soviet Union, committing themselves either to an alternate path to socialism or to a compromise between capitalism and socialism. In this period, social democrats embraced a mixed economy based on the predominance of private property, with only a minority of essential utilities and public services under public ownership. As a result, social democracy became associated with Keynesian economics, state interventionism and the welfare state, while abandoning the prior goal of replacing the capitalist system (factor markets, private property and wage labour) with a qualitatively different socialist economic system.\n\nAlthough fascism is primarily a political ideology that stresses the importance of cultural and social issues over economics, fascism is generally supportive of a broadly capitalistic mixed economy. Fascism supports a state interventionism into markets and private enterprise, alongside a corporatist framework referred to as the \"third position\" that ostensibly aims to be a middle-ground between socialism and capitalism by mediating labour and business disputes to promote national unity. 20th century fascist regimes in Italy and Germany adopted large public works programs to stimulate their economies, state interventionism in largely private-sector dominated economies to promote re-armament and national interests. Scholars have drawn parallels between the American New Deal and public works programs promoted by fascism, arguing that fascism similarly arose in response to the threat of socialist revolution and similarly aimed to \"save capitalism\" and private property.\n\n\"Mixed economies\" as a mixture of socially-owned and private enterprise have been predicted and advocated by various socialists as a necessary transitional form between capitalism and socialism. Additionally, a number of proposals for socialist systems call for a mixture of different forms of enterprise ownership including a role for private enterprise. For example, Alexander Nove's conception of \"feasible socialism\" outlines an economic system based on a combination of state-enterprises for large industries, worker and consumer cooperatives, private enterprises for small-scale operations and individually owned enterprises.\n\nThe social democratic theorist Eduard Bernstein advocated a form of mixed economy, believing that a mixed system of public, cooperative and private enterprise would be necessary for a long period of time before capitalism would evolve of its own accord into socialism.\n\nThe People's Republic of China adopted a socialist market economy, which represents an early stage of socialist development according to the Communist Party of China. The Communist Party takes the Marxist position that an economic system containing diverse forms of ownership—but with the public sector playing a decisive role—is a necessary characteristic of an economy in the preliminary stage of developing socialism.\n\nThe Socialist Republic of Vietnam describes its economy as a \"socialist-oriented market economy\" that consists of a mixture of public, private and cooperative enterprise—a mixed economy that is oriented toward the long-term development of a socialist economy.\n\nThis meaning of a mixed economy refers to a combination of market forces with state intervention in the form of regulations, macroeconomic policies and social welfare interventions aimed at improving market outcomes. As such, this type of mixed economy falls under the framework of a capitalistic market economy, with macroeconomic interventions aimed at promoting the stability of capitalism. Other examples of common government activity in this form of mixed economy include environmental protection, maintenance of employment standards, a standardized welfare system and maintenance of competition.\n\nMost contemporary market-oriented economies fall under this category, including the economy of the United States. The term is also used to describe the economies of countries that feature extensive welfare states, such as the Nordic model practiced by the Nordic countries, which combine free-market capitalism with an extensive welfare state.\n\nThe German social market economy is the economic policy of modern Germany that steers a middle path between the goals of social democracy and capitalism within the framework of a private market economy and aims at maintaining a balance between a high rate of economic growth, low inflation, low levels of unemployment, good working conditions, public welfare and public services by using state intervention. Under its influence, Germany emerged from desolation and defeat to become an industrial giant within the European Union.\n\nThe American School (also known as the National System) is the economic philosophy that dominated United States national policies from the time of the American Civil War until the mid-twentieth century. It consisted of three core policy initiatives: protecting industry through high tariffs (1861–1932; changing to subsidies and reciprocity from 1932–1970s), government investment in infrastructure through internal improvements and a national bank to promote the growth of productive enterprises. During this period, the United States grew into the largest economy in the world, surpassing the United Kingdom (though not the British Empire) by 1880.\n\nThis type of mixed economy specifically refers to a mixture of private and public ownership of industry and the means of production. As such, it is sometimes described as a \"middle path\" or transitional state between capitalism and socialism, but it can also refer to a mixture of state capitalism with private capitalism.\n\nExamples include the economies of Singapore, Norway, Vietnam and China—all of which feature large state-owned enterprise sectors operating alongside large private sectors. The French economy featured a large state sector from 1945 until 1986, mixing a substantial amount of state-owned enterprises and nationalized firms with private enterprise.\n\nFollowing the Chinese economic reforms initiated in 1978, the Chinese economy has reformed its state-owned enterprises and allowed greater scope for private enterprise to operate alongside the state and collective sectors. In the 1990s, the central government concentrated its ownership in strategic sectors of the economy, but local and provincial level state-owned enterprises continue to operate in almost every industry including information technology, automobiles, machinery and hospitality. The latest round of state-owned enterprise reform initiated in 2013 stressed increased dividend payouts of state enterprises to the central government and \"mixed ownership reform\" which includes partial private investment into state-owned firms. As a result, many nominally private-sector firms are actually partially state-owned by various levels of government and state institutional investors; and many state-owned enterprises are partially privately owned resulting in a \"mixed ownership\" economy.\n\nThis type of mixed economy refers to a combination of economic planning with market forces for the guiding of production in an economy and may coincide with a mixture of private and public enterprise. It can include capitalist economies with indicative macroeconomic planning policies and socialist planned economies that introduced market forces into their economies, such as in Hungary.\n\nDirigisme was an economic policy initiated under Charles de Gaulle in France, designating an economy where the government exerts strong directive influence through indicative economic planning. In the period of Dirigisme, the French state used indicative economic planning to supplement market forces for guiding its market economy. It involved state control of industries such as transportation, energy and telecommunication infrastructures as well as various incentives for private corporations to merge or engage in certain projects. Under its influence France experienced what is called \"Thirty Glorious Years\" of profound economic growth.\n\nHungary inaugurated the New Economic Mechanism reforms in 1968 that introduced market processes into its planned economy. Under this system, firms were still publicly-owned but not subject to physical production targets and output quotas specified by a national plan. Firms were attached to state ministries which had the power to merge, dissolve and reorganize them, and which established the firm's operating sector. Enterprises had to acquire their inputs and sell their outputs in markets, eventually eroding away at the Soviet-style planned economy.\n\nNumerous economists have questioned the validity of the entire concept of a \"mixed economy\" when understood to be a mixture of socialism and capitalism.\n\nIn \"Human Action\", Ludwig von Mises argued that there can be no mixture of capitalism and socialism—either market logic or economic planning must dominate an economy. Mises elabourated on this point by contending that even if a market economy contained numerous state-run or nationalized enterprises, this would not make the economy \"mixed\" because the existence of such organizations does not alter the fundamental characteristics of the market economy. These publicly owned enterprises would still be subject to market sovereignty, would have to acquire capital goods through markets, strive to maximize profits (or at the least try to minimize costs) and utilize monetary accounting for economic calculation.\n\nClassical and orthodox Marxist theorists also dispute the viability of a mixed economy as a \"middle ground\" between socialism and capitalism. Irrespective of enterprise ownership, either the capitalist law of value and accumulation of capital drives the economy, or conscious planning and non-monetary forms of valuation ultimately drive the economy. Therefore from the Great Depression onward extant \"mixed economies\" in the Western world are still functionally capitalist because they operate on the basis of capital accumulation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12948699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12948699", "title": "Mongo people", "text": "Mongo people\n\nThe Mongo people are a Bantu ethnic group who live in the equatorial forest of Central Africa. They are the second largest ethnic group in the Democratic Republic of Congo, highly influential in its north region. A diverse collection of sub-ethnic groups, they are mostly residents of a region north of the Kasai and the Sankuru Rivers, south of the main Congo River bend. Their highest presence is in the province of Équateur and the northern parts of the Bandundu Province.\n\nThe Mongo people, despite their diversity, share a common legend wherein they believe that they are the descendants of a single ancestor named Mongo. They also share similarities in their language and social organization, but also have differences. Anthropologists first proposed the Mongo unity as an ethnic group in 1938 particularly by Boelaert, followed by a major corpus on Mongo people in 1944 by Vanderkerken – then the governor of Équateur.\n\nThe Mongo people traditionally speak the Mongo language (also called Nkundo) or one of the related languages in the Bantu Mongo family, in the Niger-Congo family of languages. The Lingala language, however, often replaces Mongo in urban centers. This language has about 200 dialects, and these are found clustered regionally as well as based on Mongo sub-ethnic groups such as Bolia, Bokote, Bongandu, Ekonda, Iyaelima, Konda, Mbole, Mpama, Nkutu, Ntomba, Sengele, Songomeno, Dengese and Tetela-Kusu, Bakutu, Boyela and many others.\n\nThe historic roots of the Mongo people are unclear, but they probably settled along the rainy, hot and humid river valleys of northern and western Congo in early centuries of the 1st millennium. Farming of staples such as yam and banana was likely established by about 1000 CE. The Belgian colonial rule impacted the traditions, culture and religious beliefs of the Mongo people, and they predominantly converted to one of numerous denominations of Christianity found in Congo. The influence of Islamic missionary activity from northern Africa has been a source of deep resentment for the Christian Mongo people, leading to a history of conflicts between them and some Muslim ethnic groups found in the neighboring northeastern regions of Congo.\n\nAccording to Alexander Reid, the Mongo people suffered during the active slave capture, trade and export in the 18th and 19th centuries, where \"thousands of Mongo people as captured slaves passed through the Zanzibar route by the Arabs\". A system of enslavement and slave trade led by Arab incursions, state Patrick Harries and David Maxwell, existed and impacted the Mongo people before the colonial period. The arrival of Belgium as a colonial ruler, with its Leupoldian exploitation model, combined with imported diseases such as sleeping sickness and syphilis, decimated the Mongo people over the colonial history. The colonial period also brought an ecological and economic change from the introduction of cocoa, coffee, rubber plantations as well as trapping of animals as pets and for zoos.\n\nGiven the equatorial forests they live in, like neighboring ethnic groups, the Mongo people cultivate cassava, yam and banana as staple foods. This is supplemented with wild-plant and edible-insects gathering, seasonal vegetables and beans, fishing, and hunting. The society is patrilineal, and traditionally based on a joint family household called \"Etuka\" with twenty to forty members, derived from an ancestor lineage. The male elder of the \"Etuka\" is called \"Tata\" (meaning father). A cluster of \"Etuka\" form a village of the Mongo people. Disputes and covenants between lineages were typically resolved through goods or inter-marriages. Some sub-ethnic groups found in the southern parts of Congo have had a chief, instead of being a collection of lineages, with the chief known as \"Bokulaka\".\n\nTraditional religion of the Mongo people is largely one of ancestor worship, belief in nature spirits, fertility rites, with shamanic practices such as magic, sorcery, and witchcraft. Mongo artistic achievements, songs, musical instruments and carvings show richness and high sophistication. Like many ancient cultures, the Mongo people have used the oral tradition to preserve and transmit knowledge to the next. Polygamy has been a part of the Mongo culture into the modern age, though missionaries have attempted to curb this part after their conversion to Christianity.\n\nThe musician Jupiter Bokondji is of Mongo descent.\n\n"}
{"id": "14740426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14740426", "title": "Neolocal residence", "text": "Neolocal residence\n\nNeolocal residence is a type of post-marital residence in which a newly married couple resides separately from both the husband's natal household and the wife's natal household. Neolocal residence forms the basis of most developed nations, especially in the West, and is also found among some nomadic communities.\n\nUpon marriage, each partner is expected to move out of his or her parents' household and establish a new residence, thus forming the core of an independent nuclear family. Neolocal residence involves the creation of a new household where a child marries or even when he or she reaches adulthood and becomes socially and economically active. Neolocal residence and nuclear family domestic structures are found in societies where geographical mobility is important. In Western societies, they are consistent with the frequent moves that necessary due to choices and changes within a supply- and demand-regulated labor market. They are also prevalent in hunting and gathering economies, where nomadic movements are intrinsic to the subsistence strategy.\n\nIn western countries, Employment in large corporations or the military often calls for frequent relocations, making it nearly impossible for extended families to remain together hence creating new generation of families.\n\nIn neolocal residence, newly formed couples form their own separate household units, and create what is considered a nuclear family. This contrasts with other forms of post-marital residence, such as patrilocal residence and matrilocal residence, in which the couple resides with or near the husband's family (patrilocal residence) or the wife's family (matrilocal residence).\n\nNeolocality first appeared in Northwestern Europe. It was from there brought to British colonies in the Americas. As American colonists expanded westward, this form of residence remained. Although some believe neolocal residence came as a result of industrialization, there is evidence of neolocality in England from before industrialization. Whatever the relationship between neolocality and economic development is, what is clear is that the two seem to coincide. Countries that experience economic development tend to also experience declines in multi-generational households, and increases in nuclear, neolocal forms of residence. A reason often cited for the high coincidence of neolocality in developed countries is the higher mobility of nuclear families, which becomes more important in modern economies. The decline of dependency on agricultural subsistence, which results in a weakening of extended family ties, is seen as another cause of nuclear, neolocal household creation. A particular case study of the relationship between economic development and neolocal residence patterns is the community of Navajo Mountain, which showed a positive correlation between the two.\n\nCurrently, neolocal residence is more commonly found in the west, and is becoming more common in countries that have experienced economic development, like Japan.\n\n"}
{"id": "434244", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=434244", "title": "Ni Putes Ni Soumises", "text": "Ni Putes Ni Soumises\n\nNi Putes Ni Soumises (which roughly translates as \"Neither Whores nor Doormats\") is a French feminist movement, founded in 2002, which has secured the recognition of the French press and the National Assembly of France. It is generally dependent on public funding. It is also the name of a book written by Fadela Amara, one of the leaders of the movement, with the help of \"Le Monde\" journalist Sylvia Zappi.\n\nIn 2005 this movement inspired the creation of the similarly named \"Varken Hora eller Kuvad (sv)\" movement in Sweden.\n\nFadela Amara was appointed as junior minister for urban policy in François Fillon's first government in May 2007. She left the government in 2010, and was named France's inspector general for social affairs in January 2011.\n\nNPNS was set up by a group of young French women, including Samira Bellil, in response to the violence being directed at them in the predominantly Muslim immigrant suburbs (\"banlieues\") and public housing (\"cités\") of cities such as Paris, Lyon and Toulouse, where organised gang-rapes are referred to as , or \"pass-arounds\").\n\nNi Putes Ni Soumises fights against violence targeting women, including domestic violence and gang rape, as well as social pressures.\n\nThe movement's platform for victims of domestic violence helps women and their children escape dangerous situations and supports them in the rebuilding of their lives after the fact. Its support team is made up of lawyers, psychologists, an educational specialist and a legal counsel.\n\nNi Putes Ni Soumises also supports the White Ribbon Campaign, which runs from 25 November to 6 December every year, and uses this as an opportunity to promote 3919, the national domestic violence helpline.\n\nNi Putes Ni Soumises also carries out awareness-raising seminars in schools in order to encourage students to think about gender equality and break the cycle of sexism. In this way, the movement was able to reach out to 950 students in 2016.\n\nThe slogan used by the movement is meant both to shock and mobilise. Members particularly protest against changes of attitudes toward women, claiming there is an increased influence of Islamic extremism in those French suburbs with large immigrant populations. A particular concern is the treatment of Muslim women. Members claim that they may be pressured into wearing veils, leaving school, and marrying early. However, the movement represents women of all faiths and ethnic origins, all of whom may find themselves trapped by poverty and the ghettoisation of the \"cités\". \n\nA translation of the key points of NPNS's national appeal on its official website:\n\nTwo high-profile cases gave a particular impetus to NPNS during 2003. The first was that of Samira Bellil, who published a book called \"Dans l'enfer des tournantes\" (\"In Gang Rape Hell\"). In the culture of the banlieues, organised gang-rapes are referred to as , or \"pass-arounds\").\n\nIn her book, Bellil recounts her life as a girl under \"la loi des cités\" (the law of the ghetto) where she was gang raped on more than one occasion, the first time at age 13, afraid to speak out, and ultimately seen only as a sexual object, alienated and shunned by her family and some of her friends.\n\nThe second case was that of 17-year-old Sohanne Benziane, who was burned alive by an alleged small-time gang leader.\n\nIn the wake of these events, members of \"Ni Putes Ni Soumises\" staged a march through France, which started in February 2003 and passed through over 20 cities before culminating in a 30,000-strong demonstration in Paris on 8 March 2003. The march was officially called \"la Marche des femmes des quartiers contre les ghettos et pour l'égalité\" (The March of Women from the public housing against ghettoes and for equality).\n\nRepresentatives of Ni Putes Ni Soumises were received by French Prime Minister Jean Pierre Raffarin. Their message was also incorporated into the official celebrations of Bastille Day 2003 in Paris, when 14 giant posters each of a modern woman dressed as Marianne, the symbol of the French Republic, were hung on the columns of the Palais Bourbon, the home of the Assemblée nationale (the lower house of the French parliament).\n\nThe following five propositions were accepted by the French government:\n\nThe inauguration of the Maison de la Mixitié, the movement's premises in Paris' 20th arrondissement, took place in 2006. Then-President Jacques Chirac and then-future-President François Hollande both attended the event.\n\nIn November 2016 Ni Putes Ni Soumises elected a new leadership team, with Stéphanie Rameau, a long-serving member and activist in the movement, voted president.\n\nIn May 2017 Ni Putes Ni Soumises moved into its new premises at 80 rue de Paris in Montreuil, a largely working-class suburb of Paris.\n\n\"Ni Putes Ni Soumises\" has been criticized by various French feminists and left-wing authors (Sylvie Tissot, Elsa Dorlin, Étienne Balibar, Houria Bouteldja, etc.), who claimed that it overshadowed the work of other feminist NGOs and that it supported an Islamophobic instrumentalization of feminism by the French Right.\n\nHouria Bouteldja qualified \"Ni Putes ni Soumises\" as an Ideological State Apparatus (AIE). The debate among the French Left concerning the 2004 law on secularity and conspicuous religious symbols in schools, mainly targeted against the \"Hijab\", is to be seen under this light. They underline that, first, sexism is not specific to immigrant populations, French culture itself not being devoid of sexism, and second, that the focus on mediatic and violent acts passes under silence the precarization of women.\n\nSylvie Tissot writes that Amara collaborated with the \"Cercle de l'Oratoire\", and Mohammed Abdi, the current president of the NGO, is a member of this think-tank.\n\n\"Ni Putes ni Soumises\" is also criticized for its SWERF policy (Sex Worker Exclusionary Radical Feminism) that leads to a lack of inclusion of sex workers and, since May 2017, for its anti-afrofeminism tweets when condemning the NYANSAPO festival, which provides safe spaces and political organization for black women.\n\n\nGeneral:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4157420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4157420", "title": "Nurturant parent model", "text": "Nurturant parent model\n\nThe nurturant parent model also \"Nurturing Parent\" is a metaphor, for a belief system, which is built upon an underlying value system. In this Nurturant Parenting contrasts with Stern Father parenting (Strict Father) as two distinct metaphors each used as icons of contrasting value and political systems, i.e. Regressive (Strict Father) and Nurturing Parent as Progressive . \n\nThe Nurturant Parent metaphor draws on parenting style. The ideal, effective Nurturing Parent gives his children both \"roots in the ground and wings to fly.\" He or she does this by imparting, conveying, role-modeling and enforcing boundaries which encourage the child towards personal freedom (try out your new wings). The Nurturant Parent model has a healthy respect for children's inherent intelligence. As safe and appropriate, they can and should be allowed to explore their environment. Parents are responsible for protecting their child from serious mistakes, by offering guidance. A child will be picked up if the child cries because the parent wants the child to feel safe and supported. If a child grows up believing its needs are likely to be met, it will be more confident when facing challenges.\n\nAt the same time or alternately as appropriate, the Nurturant Parent encourages the child to have deep and peaceful roots in the ground thru managed exercise of the child's own self-discipline, self-connection, age-appropriate house chores, limited allowance, discussion of both Feelings and Thoughts and mutually healthy boundaries with strangers, friends and adults generally. \n\nThe above was originally expressed more simply as 'a family model where children are expected to explore their surroundings; at the same time, being protected by their parents.' \n\nOther ideas:\n\n\nThis model is based on a study conducted by the Boston College Graduate Program in Human Development where researchers were investigating the parenting style preferred by parents of extraordinarily creative children. Most parenting books recommend the authoritative style. The researchers discovered another parenting style which they called \"the nurturing parent\" that focuses on responsibility, empathy, and creativity. The basic approach these parents used was to:\n\n\nHerbert Jay Rosenfield (LCSW) in his unfinished book \"Caring Parents: a Guide to Successful Parenting\" encourages use of the acronym \"RECEPEE\", for \"Reasonable Expectations, Clearly Expressed, Performed Everyday and by Example\". \"The factors that children need to develop good self-esteem...are primarily 'gifts' from us parents!\" writes Rosenfield, who offers another acronym \"UCARE\":\n\n\nReverend George Englehardt stated succinctly, in 1991, that \"parental responsibility is to provide their children with a safe, loving, nurturing environment\".\n\nThe nurturant parent model is also discussed by George Lakoff in his books, including \"Moral Politics\" and \"Whose Freedom?\" In these books, the nurturant parent model is contrasted with the strict father model. Lakoff argues that if the metaphor of nation as family and government as parent is used, then progressive politics correspond to the nurturant parent model. For example, progressives want the government to make sure that the citizens are protected and assisted to achieve their potential. This might take the form of tough environmental regulations or healthcare assistance.\n\nThe model is also consistent with slow parenting in that children are encouraged to explore the world for themselves. They have to learn to face the risks that nature presents. Although slow parenting might go further and reduce the level of protection offered by parents, it would not advocate withholding it entirely.\n\n"}
{"id": "40906526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40906526", "title": "Paraguayans in Spain", "text": "Paraguayans in Spain\n\nParaguayans in Spain are people born in Paraguay who emigrated to Spain. As of 2011, there were over 80,000 Paraguayans living in Spain.\n"}
{"id": "22590835", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22590835", "title": "Polygamy in Gabon", "text": "Polygamy in Gabon\n\nUnder Gabon's penal code, both men and women may have more than one spouse; however, in practice typically only men take multiple spouses. Before contracting a marriage, the couple must state whether they intend to pursue a polygamous relationship in the future. Men may later retract their decision and opt for polygamy if they desire, but women do not have this option.\n\nPolyandry\n"}
{"id": "13985526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13985526", "title": "Private security industry in South Africa", "text": "Private security industry in South Africa\n\nThe private security industry in South Africa is an industry providing guarding, monitoring, armed reaction, escorting, investigating and other security-related services to private individuals and companies in the country. Over the years there has been tremendous growth in the private security industry, not only in South Africa, but also in the rest of the world. The private security industry in South Africa is among the largest in the world, with over 9,000 registered companies, 450,000 registered active private security guards and a further 1.5 million qualified (but inactive) guards; many times the available personnel than the combined South African police and army. Studies have shown that South Africa had 2.57 private security personnel for every police employee. This is attributed by some to the country's relatively high levels of crime to a lack of public funds from Parliament towards the South African Police Service (SAPS) or to an increasing trend in many countries towards government outsourcing of certain security functions. Others have suggested the number of high-wealth individuals in South Africa in comparison with the rest of Africa has led to the growth of the industry. \n\nThe private security industry in South Africa is regulated by the Private Security Industry Regulatory Authority, based in Centurion, Gauteng. The authority was established by the Private Security Industry Regulation Act 2001 and commenced operations in 2002. The authority has wide-ranging powers relating to the operation of private security companies in South Africa. Private security companies are required by law to be registered with the authority.\n\nIn 2006, private security personnel went on strike across South Africa. The strike lasted 96 days and cost the industry more than a million working days. The strike was supported by the South African Transport and Allied Workers Union and 15 other trade unions. The striking workers looted and damaged property, and committed violent crimes.\n\nThe Southern African Catholic Bishops' Conference criticised the private security industry in a 2012 briefing paper. The paper argued that the prevalence of private security in South Africa \"perpetuates fear\". The paper also noted that the private security industry \"only protects the select and privileged group that can afford to pay for security services\" and \"exacerbates the divide between the wealthy and the poor\".\n"}
{"id": "14256388", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14256388", "title": "Problem Solved", "text": "Problem Solved\n\nProblem Solved is a slogan on a t-shirt designed by Route 66 Attitude, a clothing line sold by major U.S. department store Kmart. The shirt depicts a male stick figure and a female stick figure arguing in the first frame (captioned \"Problem\"), and in the second frame, the male pushes the female out of a window (captioned \"Solved.\")\n\nDue to its encouragement of violence against women, the t-shirt generated protests and petitions for its removal from Kmart stores across the United States in late 2006 and early 2007, including in Augusta, Maine, Oakland, California, Portland, Oregon, and Toledo, Ohio. While a spokesperson for Kmart's parent company Sears Holdings Corporation said that the shirt was intended to be \"light hearted\", Meijer reported that they had pulled the shirts immediately after a protest.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23152025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23152025", "title": "Race Life of the Aryan Peoples", "text": "Race Life of the Aryan Peoples\n\nRace Life of the Aryan Peoples is a book written by Joseph Pomeroy Widney, published in New York by Funk & Wagnalls in 1907, of the history of the Aryan race, a hypothesized race commonly described in the late 19th and early 20th century as consisting of native \"Indo-European Language-speaking peoples\" of Caucasian ancestry, i.e., those ethnic groups that are the native speakers of Indo-European Languages regarded as descended from the original speakers of Proto-Indo European.\n\nAt the time the book was published, the Aryan race was generally regarded as one of the three major branches of the Caucasian race, along with the Semitic race and the Hamitic race. These sub-categories are now regarded by some as scientific racism.\n\nIn this massive best-selling two volume work, Joseph Pomeroy Widney, the chancellor of the University of Southern California, describes what he believed was the origin of the \"Proto-Aryans\" in Central Asia about 7000 years ago, and how they spread out and formed the great \"Aryan empires.\" He included empires which were predominantly Indo-European language-speaking: The Hittite empire, Persian empire, Mauryan empire, Macedonian empire, Roman empire, Gupta empire, Spanish empire, French empire, and British empire, finally resulting in the colonization of North America by the \"Aryans\", with the entire process culminating in the \"manifest destiny\" of the \"Aryan Americans\" of the United States to establish an American Empire.\n\nThe book also discusses the \"racial characteristics\" of the various subgroups of the Aryan race and their constituent ethnic groups. Widney believed that these characteristics were determined by the soil and climate of the original homeland of each subgroup or individual ethnic group. The original 19th century and early 20th century use of the term \"Aryan\" (the original meaning of the term in English), as noted above, refers to \"the early speakers of Proto-Indo European and their descendents\". Today in academic discourse these human beings would generally be referred to as the \"Indo-European peoples\". These ethnic groups are indicated below:\n\nThe Eastern branch includes the Indo-Aryans (including the Maldivians) and the Iranian peoples (including Kurds); the Western branch includes the Armenians, Balts, Slavs, Romani, Albanians, Greeks, Romanics, Teutonics, Celts, Anglo-Americans (includes the European-Americans and the Anglo-Canadians), Québécois, North American White Hispanics, White Latin Americans, Anglo-Australians, Anglo-New Zealanders, British diaspora in Africa, and Boers.\n\nToday, as of 2011, the total population of the \"Indo-European peoples\" is approximately 2,405,000,000 people, of which over half, about 1,334,000,000, are those belonging to the Eastern branch of the Indo-European peoples, i.e., the \"Indo-Iranian peoples\"; and the rest, about 1,071,000,000, are those belonging to the Western branch of the Indo-European peoples, the \"European peoples\". List of ethnolinguistic groups with populations\n\n\"Every masterful race of the world’s history has its epic. It is the tale of the fathers told to the sons. But side by side with the spoken epic is another, unspoken, yet truer and deeper. It is the tale of the race life, not told in words, but lived in deeds done. And the epic lived is always more wonderful than the epic told. The true epic is found, not in the story of the battles or of the deeds of the rulers, but in the race life. In the perspective of time men become less, man grows greater. Race life is broader, deeper, richer than the life of any man, or of any men. The great men of a race are only an evolution of its race force; and the reserve force is greater than its product. They are indices, race marks. The great man is as the mountain peak; for the mountains that loom up above the widespread plain are not the land; they are only the land-marks, marks of the land. Kings are the accident; the people, the law. The Greek colonies, not Ilium and Atreides Agamemnon, are the true epic of Hellas, vastly more marvelous. So of the Aryan folk; not the Vedas, not the Avestas, not the Iliad, or the Nibelungenlied, or Beowulf, but the marvelous tale of what the Aryan man has lived—how he has subdued the wild and waste lands—how he has made the desert to blossom as the rose—how he has built up empire with ax and plow, and has sailed the unknown paths of the seas—these are his true race epic. The others are only as the fairy tales which old wives tell to their children. We read between the lines of the written epic to find the truer and greater epic which lies beyond. This book is an attempt to unfold somewhat of the race epic which the Aryan peoples have lived.\" ---Joseph Pomeroy Widney Los Angeles, January 1907.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14187760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14187760", "title": "Racial democracy", "text": "Racial democracy\n\nRacial democracy () is a term used by some to describe race relations in Brazil. The term denotes some scholars' belief that Brazil has escaped racism and racial discrimination. Those researchers contend that Brazilians do not view each other through the lens of race and do not harbor racial prejudice towards one another. Because of that, while social mobility of Brazilians may be constrained by many factors, gender and class included, racial discrimination is considered irrelevant (within the confines of the concept racial democracy).\n\nRacial democracy was first advanced by Brazilian sociologist Gilberto Freyre in his work \"Casa-Grande & Senzala\" (), published in 1933. Although Freyre never uses this term in the book, he did adopt it in later publications, and his theories paved the way for other scholars who would popularize the concept.\n\nFreyre argued that several factors, including close relations between masters and slaves prior to their legal emancipation in 1888 and the supposedly benign character of Portuguese imperialism prevented the emergence of strict racial categories. Freyre also argued that continued miscegenation between the three races (Amerindians, the descendants of African slaves, and whites) would lead to a \"meta-race\", \"i.e.\", a \"postracial race\" or a \"race beyond race(s)\".\n\nFreyre's theory became a source of national pride for Brazil, which contrasted itself favorably with the racial divisions and violence then taking place in the United States. Over time, racial democracy would become widely accepted among Brazilians of all stripes and many foreign academics. Black researchers in the United States would make unfavorable comparisons between their own country and Brazil during the 1960s.\n\nIn the past four decades, beginning around the publication in 1974 of Thomas E. Skidmore's \"Black into White\", a revisionist study of Brazilian race relations, scholars have begun to criticize the notion that Brazil is actually a \"racial democracy\". Skidmore argues that the predominantly white elite within Brazilian society promoted racial democracy to obscure very real forms of racial oppression.\n\nMichael Hanchard, a political scientist at Johns Hopkins University, has argued that the ideology of racial democracy, often promoted by state apparatuses, prevents effective action to combat racial discrimination by leading people to ascribe discrimination to other forms of oppression and allowing government officials charged with preventing racism to deny its existence a priori.\n\nFrance Winddance Twine's 1997 ethnography also appears to support those contentions.\n\nHanchard compiles a great deal of research from other scholars demonstrating widespread discrimination in employment, education, and electoral politics. The seemingly paradoxical use of racial democracy to obscure the realities of racism has been referred to by scholar Florestan Fernandes as the \"prejudice of having no prejudices\". That is, because the state assumes the absence of racial prejudice, it fails to enforce what few laws exist to counter racial discrimination, as it believes that such efforts are unnecessary. More recently, North American anthropologist John Collins has argued that shifting engagements with collective memory, genealogically-based accounts of ancestry, and even UNESCO World Heritage programs have articulated with efforts by the Black Movement, academics, and progressive government actors to undermine claims about racial democracy in ways that increasingly lead Brazilians to self-identify as Black. \n\nThe life of Gilberto Freyre, after he published \"Casa-Grande & Senzala\", became an eternal source of explanation. He repeated several times that he did not create the myth of a racial democracy and that the fact that his books recognized the intense mixing between \"races\" in Brazil did not mean a lack of prejudice or discrimination. He pointed out that many people have claimed the United States to have been an \"exemplary democracy\" whereas slavery and racial segregation were present throughout most of the history of the United States.\n\n\"The interpretation of those who want to place me among the sociologists or anthropologists who said prejudice of race among the Portuguese or the Brazilians never existed is extreme. What I have always suggested is that such prejudice is minimal ... when compared to that which is still in place elsewhere, where laws still regulate relations between Europeans and other groups\".\n\n\"It is not that racial prejudice or social prejudice related to complexion are absent in Brazil. They exist. But no one here would have thought of \"white-only\" Churches. No one in Brazil would have thought of laws against interracial marriage ... Fraternal spirit is stronger among Brazilians than racial prejudice, colour, class or religion. It is true that equality has not been reached since the end of slavery ... There was racial prejudice among plantation owners, there was social distance between the masters and the slaves, between whites and blacks ... But few wealthy Brazilians were as concerned with racial purity as the majority were in the Old South\".\n"}
{"id": "3605557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3605557", "title": "Reunion dinner", "text": "Reunion dinner\n\nA reunion dinner (Chinese: 年夜飯, 团年饭 or 团圆饭; Vietnamese: Tất niên) is held on New Year's Eve of the Chinese and Vietnamese New Years, during which family members get together to celebrate. It is often considered the most important get-together meal of the entire year.\n\nThe New Year's Eve dinner is very large and traditionally includes dumplings, chicken, and pork. Fish (魚, yú) is also included, but intentionally not finished, and the remaining fish is stored overnight. The reason for this stems from a pun, as the Chinese phrase 年年有魚/餘; (nián nián yǒu yú, or \"every year there is fish/leftover\") is a homophone for phrases which mean \"be blessed every year\" or \"have abundant profit every year\". Similarly, a type of black hair-like algae, \"fat choy\"(髮菜, fǎ cài, literally \"hair vegetable\" in Chinese), is also featured in many dishes since its name sounds similar to \"prosperity\"(發財, fā cái). Hakka will serve \"kiu nyuk\" 扣肉 and \"ngiong tiu fu\" 釀豆腐. The belief is that having one will lead to the other, as the phrases sound similar to one another.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17444051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17444051", "title": "Stewart Greenleaf", "text": "Stewart Greenleaf\n\nStewart John Greenleaf (born October 4, 1939) is a Republican member of the Pennsylvania State Senate, representing the 12th District since 1979. His district includes portions of eastern Montgomery County and southern Bucks County.\n\nGreenleaf is a 1961 graduate of the University of Pennsylvania and received his J.D. from the University of Toledo College of Law. He served as an assistant district attorney in Montgomery County from 1970 to 1977 and also an assistant public defender in Bucks County. Greenleaf continues to serve as a partner in his law firm, Elliott Greenleaf, whose attorneys include Montgomery County Commissioner Bruce Castor and former State Rep. Melissa Murphy Weber.\n\nIn 1971, Greenleaf was elected as a Commissioner for his hometown of Upper Moreland Township, Pennsylvania. After one term, Greenleaf was elected to a seat in the Pennsylvania House of Representatives in 1976. He served a single term in the house before winning his bid for the State Senate in 1978. Greenleaf has been re-elected seven times, most recently in 2014.\n\nGreenleaf considered a run for U.S. Congress in 1993, briefly forming an exploratory committee to take on Marjorie Margolies-Mezvinsky. However, he dropped out before the county endorsement convention. In 2000, Greenleaf did run for Congress, attempting to defeat first-term Congressman Joe Hoeffel. By then, he'd represented much of the eastern portion of the congressional district for almost a quarter-century. Ultimately, Hoeffel won the race with nearly 53% of the vote to Greenleaf's 46%. Greenleaf did not have to give up his state senate seat to run for Congress; Pennsylvania state senators serve staggered four-year terms, and Greenleaf was not up for reelection until 2002.\n\nSenator Greenleaf is Chairman of the Senate Judiciary Committee and serves on the Appropriations, Banking & Insurance, Consumer Protection & Professional Licensure and Environmental Resources & Energy Committees.\n\nGreenleaf signed up to be on the presidential ballot for the Republican Party's New Hampshire primary. He explained that he did so to focus the debate of the election on the balancing of the federal budget. He filed with the FEC on December 29, and received a total of 24 votes in the primary, 21st place amongst ballot candidates. He won four write-in votes in the Democratic primary, all of which he received in Canaan. Including other write-ins, this tied him with Mitt Romney for third place in the town, behind only Barack Obama and Ron Paul.\n\n"}
{"id": "78366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=78366", "title": "Superpower collapse", "text": "Superpower collapse\n\nSuperpower collapse is the political collapse of a superpower nation state; the term is most often used to describe the dissolution of the Soviet Union but also can be applied to the loss of the British Empire's superpower status.\n\nDramatic changes occurred in the Soviet Union during the 1980s and early 1990s, with \"perestroika\" and \"glasnost\", the dramatic fall of the Berlin Wall in November 1989, and finally ending in the dissolution of the Soviet Union. As early as 1970, Andrei Amalrik had made predictions of Soviet collapse; Emmanuel Todd made a similar prediction in 1976.\n\nSome political scientists believe that when one superpower collapses, another must take its place so as to maintain a balance of power. During the Cold War, the U.S. fought many proxy wars against USSR-supported Marxist-Leninist and socialist states, but after the Soviet dissolution found itself as the world's sole superpower, even deemed by a few to be the world's sole hyperpower. Political theoreticians of the neo-realist philosophy, (known by many as neoconservatives), self-styled as the Blue Team, increasingly view the People's Republic of China as a military threat, although there are strong economic ties between the two powers. Blue Team members favor containment and confrontation with the PRC, and strong US support of Taiwan.\n\nIn Emmanuel Todd predicts the eventual decline and fall of the United States as a superpower; 'After years of being perceived as a problem-solver, The US itself has now become a problem for the rest of the world.'\n\nThe consequence of fighting two World Wars in a relatively short amount of time, along with the emergence of the United States and the Soviet Union rise to superpower status after the end of World War II, both of which were hostile to British imperialism and along with the change in ideology led to a rapid wave of decolonization all over the world in the decades after World War II. The Suez Crisis of 1956 is generally considered the beginning of the end of Britain's period as a superpower.\n\n'Dangers are never greater than when empires break up'. — Margaret Thatcher\n\n'That special time (collapse of communism in Eastern Europe) caught me in its wild vortex and ... compelled me to do what had to be done.' Václav Havel\n\n'The world reads an expansion in military activity as a sign of increasing power when in fact it serves to mask a decline.' — Emmanuel Todd\n\n'The world is a complex whole, subject to endless revolutions (which) show a continual tendency to destruction.' Denis Diderot\n\n"}
{"id": "4545293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4545293", "title": "Superpower disengagement", "text": "Superpower disengagement\n\nSuperpower disengagement is a foreign policy option whereby the most powerful nations, the superpowers, reduce their interventions in an area. Such disengagement could be multilateral among superpowers or lesser powers, or bilateral between two superpowers, or unilateral. It could mean an end to either direct or indirect interventions. For instance, disengagement could mean that the superpowers remove their support of proxies in proxy wars in order to de-escalate a superpower conflict back to a local problem based on local disputes. Disengagement can create buffers between superpowers that might prevent conflicts or reduce the intensity of conflicts.\n\nThe term usually refers to various policy proposals during the Cold War which attempted to defuse tensions between the Soviet Union and the United States, largely because of the risk of any superpower conflict to escalate to nuclear war. Examples of one-sided disengagement include when Joseph Stalin decided to end Soviet support for the communist guerrillas in Greece during the Greek Civil War, and when Richard Nixon withdrew US troops from Vietnam in the early 1970s. \n\nThe more important candidates for disengagement were where Soviet and US forces faced each other directly such as in Germany and Austria. The Austrian State Treaty is an example of formal, multilateral, superpower disengagement which left Austria as neutral for the duration of the Cold War, with Austria staying out of the Warsaw Pact, NATO, and the European Economic Community. The 1952 Stalin Note is perhaps the most controversial proposal of superpower disengagement from Germany.\n"}
{"id": "35110380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35110380", "title": "Timeline of disability rights outside the United States", "text": "Timeline of disability rights outside the United States\n\nThis disability rights timeline lists events outside the United States relating to the civil rights of people with disabilities, including court decisions, the passage of legislation, activists' actions, significant abuses of people with disabilities that illustrate their lack of civil rights at the time, and the founding of various organizations. Although the disability rights movement itself began in the 1960s, advocacy for the rights of people with disabilities started much earlier and continues to the present.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n(1) Where a person kills or is party to a killing of another, he shall not be convicted of murder if he was suffering from an abnormality of mental functioning which - \n(1A) Those things are -\n(1B) For the purposes of subsection (1)(c), an abnormality of mental functioning provides and explanation of D's conduct if it causes, or is a significant contributory factor in causing, D to carry out that conduct.\n\nThe defence has recently been amended by s. 52 of the Coroners and Justice Act 2009, which came into force on 4 October 2010. As well, \"R v Golds\" provides a recent authority from the Court of Appeal Criminal Division on how the courts will interpret the term 'substantial' in regard to the Homicide Act 1957. At paragraph [55] of Elias LJ's judgment (following the paragraphing from the neutral citation given below) two senses of the word 'substantial' are identified: (i) something substantial is more than something which is merely trivial or minimal owing to the fact that it has \"substance\", or (ii) something substantial is big or large (e.g. in the sense that a substantial salary is a large one). At paragraph [72] Elias LJ concludes by opining that the court should (i) leave interpretation of the word 'substantial' to the jury, but if asked for further help should (ii) direct them under the second meaning of the term (i.e. substantial meaning big).\n\n(1) The Quota System: General employers including the government and municipal offices are obligated to employ disabled workers in excess of the quota. The legal quota was: Governmental bodies - 2. 0% (Non-clerical - 1. 9%) Private enterprises - 1. 6% (Specialized juridical person - 1. 9%) The quota was changed in 1998 as follows: Governmental bodies - 2. 1% (Non-clerical - 1. 9%) Private enterprises - 1. 8% (Specialized juridical person - 2. 1%) This ratio does not include mentally ill persons. Employers are obligated to report the number of disabled workers they employ to the head of the Public Employment Security Office annually. This office may announce to the public the names of enterprises who fail to meet the quota and request them to draw up plan for employment of disabled persons to meet the quota. \n(2) The Levy and Grant System: This system works by collecting levy from those enterprises that fail to achieve the quota of disabled workers. The funds created by the levy system are used to encourage employers who employ disabled persons above the quota and to promote disabled workers' employment and improve working conditions. Collection of Levies: ¥50,000 a month per person (with more than 300 full-time employees.) Payment of Adjustment Allowance: ¥25,000 per month per person will be paid to the employers who employ disabled workers more than the legal quota (with more than 300 full-time employees). Payment of Rewards: ¥17,000 per month per person will be paid to the employers who employ disabled workers in excess of the fixed number (with less than 300 full-time employees). Payment of Grants: For establishment of work facilities, special employment management, vocational adjustment, ability development, etc. to promote such employment. \n(3) Public Vocational Training Allowance for disabled persons and a loan system of funds for purchasing of technical aids and equipments.\n\n\"Article 2 (Definition): \"Disabled persons\" as used in this Law means persons whose daily life or life in society is substantially limited over the long term due to a physical disability, mental retardation or mental disability. \nArticle 3 (Fundamental Principles): The dignity of all disabled persons shall be respected. They shall have the right to be treated accordingly. All disabled persons shall, as members of society, be provided with opportunities to fully participate in such a manner.\nArticle 4 (Responsibilities of the State and Local Public Entities): The State and local public bodies shall be responsible for promoting the welfare of disabled persons and for preventing disabilities.\nArticle 5 (Responsibilities of the Nation): The nation shall, on the basis of the principle of social solidarity, endeavor to cooperate in promoting the welfare of disabled persons.\nArticle 6 (Efforts to Achieve Independence): Disabled persons shall endeavor to participate actively in social and economic activities by making effective use of the abilities they possess. The family members of disabled persons shall endeavor to promote independence of disabled persons.\nArticle 6-2 (Disabled Persons' Day): Disabled Persons' Day shall be established for the purpose of raising the public awareness to the welfare of disabled persons and stimulating disabled persons' desire to actively participate in social, economic, cultural and other areas of activity.\nArticle 7 (Fundamental Policies): The measures regarding the welfare of disabled persons shall be carried out according to their age and to the types and severity of disabilities.\"\n\nThere are other fundamental principles in this law regarding programs for persons with disability covering the State, Metropolitan and prefectural governments, and cities, towns and villages; as well as those regarding medicine, education, employment, pension, housing, public facilities, information, culture, sports, etc. The total number of the Articles of this law is 29.\n\n\"- We identify ourselves as people with Cerebral Palsy (CP). \nWe recognize our position as 'an existence which should not exist,' in the modern society. We believe that this recognition should be the starting point of our whole movement, and we act on this belief.\n\n- We assert ourselves aggressively. \nWhen we identify ourselves as people with CP, we have a will to protect ourselves. We believe that a strong self-assertion is the only way to achieve self-protection, and we act on this belief.\n\n- We deny love and justice. \nWe condemn egoism held by love and justice. We believe that mutual understanding, accompanying the human observation which arises from the denial of love and justice, means the true well-being, and we act on this belief.\n\n- We do not choose the way of problem solving. \nWe have learnt from our personal experiences that easy solutions to problems lead to dangerous compromises. We believe that an endless confrontation is the only course of action possible for us, and we act on this belief.\" This declaration became an epoch making event in the Japanese disability movement. Later a fifth point was added, stating in full, \"We deny able-bodied civilization. We recognize that modern civilization has managed to sustain itself only by excluding us, people with CP. We believe that creation of our own culture through our movement and daily life leads to the condemnation of modern civilization, and we act on this belief.\"\n\n\n\n\nIt introduces significant changes which include:\n\n1. Introduction of Supervised Community Treatment, including Community Treatment Orders (CTOs). This new power replaces supervised discharge with a power to return the patient to hospital, where the person may be forcibly medicated, if the medication regime is not being complied with in the community. \n2. Redefining professional roles: broadening the range of mental health professionals who can be responsible for the treatment of patients without their consent.\n3. Creating the role of approved clinician, which is a registered healthcare professional (social worker, nurse, psychologist or occupational therapist) approved by the appropriate authority to act for purposes of the Mental Health Act 1983 (as amended).\n4. Replacing the role of approved social worker by the role of approved mental health professional; the person fulfilling this role need not be a social worker.\n5. Nearest relative: making it possible for some patients to appoint a civil partner as nearest relative.\n6. Definition of mental disorder: introduce a new definition of mental disorder throughout the Act, abolishing previous categories\n7. Criteria for Involuntary commitment: introduce a requirement that someone cannot be detained for treatment unless \"appropriate treatment\" is available and removes the \"treatability\" test.\n8. Mental Health Review Tribunal (MHRT): improve patient safeguards by taking an order-making power which will allow the current time limit to be varied and for automatic referral by hospital managers to the MHRT.\n9. Introduction of independent mental health advocates (IMHAs) for 'qualifying patients'.\n10. Electroconvulsive Therapy may not be given to a patient who has capacity to refuse consent to it, and may only be given to an incapacitated patient where it does not conflict with any advance directive, decision of a donee or deputy or decision of the Court of Protection.\n\n"}
{"id": "21358146", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21358146", "title": "Treshchotka", "text": "Treshchotka\n\nTreshchotka (, singular; sometimes referred as Treshchotki, , plural) is a Russian folk music idiophone instrument which is used to imitate hand clapping.\n\nTraditional Russian idiophone percussion instrument Treshchotka is a set of small boards on a string that get clapped together as a group\nTreshchotki is commonly used in Russian folk music.\n\nThe word is derived from the root \"tresk-\", meaning crackling or rattle. In Russian slang, word Treshchotka \"()\" sometimes used to describe a person who is excessively chatty and loud.\n\nThere are no known documents confirming usage of Treshchotka in ancient Russia; however in 1992, during an archeological dig the city of Novgorod, two wooden boards were found; which, by the hypothesis of Vladimir Ivanovich Povetkin, were parts of the ancient Novgorod's treshchotka of the 12th century. \nThe first published mention of Treshchotka was made by Kliment Vasilievich Kvitka. The great Russian lexicographer Vladimir Dahl describes treshchotka in his \"Explanatory Dictionary of the Live Great Russian language\" as a device made to produce crackling, thundering and racketing sounds. \nAt the present time some villages in Russia are still playing and crafting treshchotkas.\n\nTreshchotka is made of a set of 15 to 20 thin oak planks/boards which are about 16 to 18 centimeters (approximately 6-8 inches) long; planks are tightly held by a rope that is threaded through the hole on top of each board. To make sure that boards are not pressed against each other a small short piece of wood (2 cm [approximately 1.5 inches]) is inserted between each board.\n\nTo play treshchotka one would hold it by the ends with both hands, generally at the chest or head high and alternate the motion between brusque and smooth to produce crackling and clicking sounds. This technique not only attracts listener by its sounds but also adds visual spectacle effect.\n\nIt is noted that treshchotkas was used during peasant wedding ceremonies where instrument(s) could have been decorated with ribbons, flowers and sometimes jingle bells. The use of the treshchotka in the wedding ceremonies allows to theorize that in the past it were performing not only a role of musical instrument but also served some mystical function, perhaps protecting newlyweds from evil spirits.\n\n"}
{"id": "47036319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47036319", "title": "Waxiang people", "text": "Waxiang people\n\nThe Waxiang people are an unrecognized ethnic group in Hunan, China. They call themselves Huaxiang people (IPA::/wa33 ɕioŋ55/) and they speak Waxiang Chinese. Compared to the Han, Miao and Tujia people of the region, they are very different in terms of clothing, food, living, farming and other cultural norms.\n\nThe Waxiang people are an unrecognized ethnic group in China, with a population of about 400,000. Currently, the views of scholars and the Chinese government are usually that Waxiang Chinese, the main language used by Waxiang people, is in the Mandarin subdivision of the Chinese language. The Waxiang people are usually situated in the Hunan province of China.\n\nMany of the Waxiang people are designated as Miao, while some are designated as Tujia or Han. However, no matter the designated ethnic group, most of them have recognition to the Waxiang ethnic group, and hope to edit the ethnic group category, in addition to establishing a Waxiang autonomous region.\n\n"}
{"id": "31698081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31698081", "title": "Women in the Republic of Artsakh", "text": "Women in the Republic of Artsakh\n\nThe women in Nagorno-Karabakh are, in general, composed of Armenian women, Azerbaijani (Azeri) women, and other ethnic groupings. This “blend of races” of women in the Nagorno-Karabakh Republic resulted because, historically, Nagorno-Karabakh became a part of Azerbaijan after the fall and disintegration of the Soviet Union. However, after the Nagorno-Karabakh conflict in the 1988 to 1994, Nagorno-Karabakh is currently occupied and governed by Armenia. The declaration of independence by Nagorno-Karabakh had not been endorsed by Armenia and Azerbaijan. At present, Nagorno-Karabakh is not officially recognized as a \"de facto\" nation by the international community.\n\nFor these reasons, some Nagorno-Karabakh women took roles in peacebuilding for the benefit of the place they are now calling as their country and home. The expanse belonging to what is now known geographically as Nagorno-Karabakh is still officially and technically considered as a part of Azerbaijan. Women's organizations based in both Azerbaijan and Armenia, are the key supporters for the peace building endeavor in Nagorno-Karabakh since 2004. Some of the organizations involved include the Women's Resource Center in Yerevan, Armenia and the Kvinna till Kvinna Foundation.\n\nThe efforts taken by the women of Nagorno-Karabakh include conducting peace building consultations and forums such as the “Nagorno-Karabakh women for peace and peaceful coexistence” conference in July 2002 which was held at Stepanakert, the capital of Nagorno-Karabakh. The topics tackled during the conferences and forums incorporated the role of women as peacekeepers, the “consolidation of democracy” in the region, human rights situations in the area, enforcement of peaceful coexistence, analysis of the consequences of war and conflict, dialogue between communities, peaceful settlement of disagreements, protection of women and children, socio-economic and political issues, and “post-conflict rehabilitation of the region”.\n\n"}
