{"id": "56803737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56803737", "title": "2020 in public domain", "text": "2020 in public domain\n\nWhen a work's copyright expires, it enters the public domain. The following is a list of works that enter the public domain in 2020. Since laws vary globally, the copyright status of some works are not uniform.\n\nWith the exception of Belarus and Spain (which has a copyright term of Life + 80 years for creators that died before 1987), a work enters the public domain in Europe 70 years after the creator's death, if it was published during the creator's lifetime. The list is sorted alphabetically and includes a notable work of the creator that entered the public domain on January 1, 2020.\n\nIn most countries of Africa and Asia, as well as Belarus, Bolivia, Canada, New Zealand and Uruguay; a work enters the public domain 50 years after the creator's death.\n\nIn 2004 copyright in Australia changed from a \"plus 50\" law to a \"plus 70\" law, in line with America and the European Union. But the change was not made retroactive (unlike the 1995 change in the European Union which bought some e.g. British authors back into copyright, especially those who died from 1925 to 1944). Hence the work of an author who died before 1955 is normally in the public domain in Australia; but the copyright of authors was extended to 70 years after death for those who died in 1955 or later, and no more Australian authors will come out of copyright until 1 January 2026 (those who died in 1955).\n\nUnpublished works by authors who died in 1949 will enter the public domain. Any published literary, artistic, dramatic, or musical work (other than computer programs) by a not generally known author (anonymous or pseudonymous) from 1949 will enter the public domain.\n\nNo United States audio recordings will enter the public domain (as those before 1972 were covered by state laws only), but international audio recordings published in 1924 enter the public domain. All sheet music published in 1924 enter the public domain. Under the Music Modernization Act, United States audio recordings published in 1924 will enter the public domain in 2025.\n\nUnder the Copyright Term Extension Act, \nbooks published in 1924,\nfilms released in 1924,\nand other works published in 1924, will enter the public domain in 2020. \n\nUnpublished works whose authors died in 1949 will enter the public domain.\n"}
{"id": "43812411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43812411", "title": "Bank of New Zealand v Greenwood", "text": "Bank of New Zealand v Greenwood\n\nBank of New Zealand v Greenwood [1984] 1 NZLR 525 is a cited case in New Zealand regarding land based nuisance claims in tort.\n\nReflection of sunlight from Greenwood's architecturally designed glass veranda caused discomfort to people working in the Bank of New Zealand building opposite it. Greenwood refused to take steps to rectify this, as they claimed that sunlight was not an actionable claim in nuisance.\n\nThe court ruled that the reflection of sunlight is an actionable claim in nuisance, but instead of making Greenwood remove the offending veranda which would have cost $20,000, it ordered that Greenwood pay for the installation of blinds at the BNZ building.\n"}
{"id": "13461371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13461371", "title": "Bar Standards Board", "text": "Bar Standards Board\n\nThe Bar Standards Board regulates barristers in England and Wales for the public interest.\nIt is responsible for:\n\n\nThe BSB's functions were originally carried out by the Bar Council, the barristers' representative body, until 2006 when the Bar Council created the BSB as an independent regulator. However, the Legal Services Board has questioned the independence of the BSB from the Bar Council.\n\nThe BSB's governing board meets monthly at its headquarters in High Holborn, London, and holds public and private sessions. It has a majority of lay (non-barrister) members and the remainder are barristers. Its chair is The Rt Hon the Baroness Tessa Blackstone who joined in January 2018. The vice-chair, since January 2016, is Naomi Ellenbogen QC, Joint Head of Littleton Chambers. She replaced Patricia Robertson QC.\n\nMembers of the BSB's board as of January 2018 are:\n\nBarrister Members:\nMr Aidan Christie QC,\nMs Justine Davidge,\nMr Andrew Mitchell QC,\nMr Adam Solomon and\nMs Anupama Thompson.\n\nLay Members:\nMs Alison Allden OBE,\nMr Steven Haines,\nMs Zoe McLeod,\nLara Fielden,\nKathryn Stone OBE,\nStephen Thornton CBE; and\nMs Nicola Sawford.\n\nThe Bar Standards Board also authorise and regulate \"BSB entities\", which fall into two distinct bodies: BSB authorised bodies (previously referred to as \"entities\") are fully owned and managed by authorised, such as lawyers with a current practising certificate. BSB licensed bodies (also known as \"Alternative Business Structures\" or ABSs), however, are owned and managed jointly by both authorised and non-authorised individuals. The Bar Standards Board held a workshop at the 2016 Annual Bar Conference, and authorised the first three Licensed Bodies in April 2017, including VII Law, Minerva Law and ShenSmith Law. Licensed bodies have been reported by Thomson Reuters as a leading innovation of the legal industry. \n"}
{"id": "36322199", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36322199", "title": "Bassel Khartabil", "text": "Bassel Khartabil\n\nBassel Khartabil (), also known as Bassel Safadi (), (22 May 1981, Damascus – 3 October 2015) was a Palestinian Syrian open-source software developer. On 15 March 2012, the one-year anniversary of the Syrian uprising, he was detained by the Syrian government at Adra Prison in Damascus. Between then and 3 October 2015, he had been transferred to an unknown location, probably to be judged by a military court. On 7 October 2015, Human Rights Watch and 30 other human rights organizations issued a letter demanding that Khartabil's whereabouts be disclosed. On 11 November 2015, rumors surfaced that Khartabil had been secretly sentenced to death. In August 2017, it was revealed by his wife on Facebook that Khartabil had been executed by the Syrian regime shortly after his disappearance in 2015.\n\nKhartabil was born in Damascus and raised in Syria, where he specialized in open source software development. He was chief technology officer (CTO) and co-founder of collaborative research company Aiki Lab and was CTO of Al-Aous, a publishing and research institution dedicated to archaeological sciences and arts in Syria. He has served as project lead and public affiliate for Creative Commons Syria, and has contributed to Mozilla Firefox, Wikipedia, Openclipart, Fabricatorz, and Sharism. He \"is credited with opening up the Internet in Syria and vastly extending online access and knowledge to the Syrian people.\"\n\nHis last work included an open, 3D virtual reconstruction of the ancient city of Palmyra in Syria, real time visualization, and development with Fabricatorz for the web programming framework Aiki Framework. This was later created and displayed in his honor.\n\nOn February 7, 2018, the Bassel Khartabil Free Culture Fellowship was announced in Bassel's memory. The fellowship awards $50,000, including additional support, to outstanding individuals developing open culture in their communities. The fellowship was created by Creative Commons, Fabricatorz Foundation, Jimmy Wales Foundation, Mozilla, #NEWPALMYRA, and Wikimedia.\n\nOn 15 March 2012, Khartabil was detained amid arrests in the Mazzeh district of Damascus by Military Security Branch 215. That day marked the one-year anniversary of the Syrian uprising, with pro- and anti-government protesters demonstrating in Damascus and elsewhere in the country.\n\nKhartabil was interrogated and allegedly tortured for five days by Military Branch 215. One week after his arrest, security forces reportedly took him to his home where they confiscated his computers and his files. He was then transferred to the Interrogation Division Branch 248 and detained there incommunicado for 9 months. On 9 December 2012, Khartabil was brought before a military prosecutor who charged him with \"spying for an enemy State\" under Articles 272 and 274 of the Syrian Criminal Code. Khartabil was then sent to the Adra Prison in Damascus.\n\nOn 12 December 2013, a request for written answer on the question of Khartabil's imprisonment was raised before the European Parliament to the Commission (Vice-President/High Representative), stating that \"his voluntary work, always non-violent in nature, was greatly valued by Syrians of all backgrounds, and it is strongly suspected that his arrest was part of an effort to restrict access to online communities and discourses and stifle free expression in Syria.\" On 18 March 2014, the written answer from High Representative/Vice-President Catherine Ashton was published, stating that \"The HR/VP deplores the ongoing imprisonment of Bassel Safadi Khartabil, shares the concerns at his situation and follows it very closely.\"\n\nOn 21 April 2015, the United Nations Working Group on Arbitrary Detention (WGAD) adopted an Opinion on Khartabil's case, calling his detention \"arbitrary\" and asking for his immediate release. The WGAD concluded that Kharbatil's detention violated Articles 9, 14 and 19 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR), which Syria ratified in 1969.\n\nKhartabil was arrested a few days before his marriage contract to Noura Ghazi, a lawyer and human rights activist, was to be signed. The contract was finalized later that year, while Khartabil was in prison. The couple first met in Douma in April 2011 after coming back from a demonstration.\n\nOn Valentine's Day 2015, Noura made public a love letter she wrote Bassel where she reflects on what has taken place in Syria in the time he had been imprisoned:\n\nFor its 2012 list of Top Global Thinkers, \"Foreign Policy\" named Khartabil together with Rima Dali as #19 for \"insisting, against all odds, on a peaceful Syrian revolution.\"\n\nOn 21 March 2013 Khartabil was awarded Index on Censorship's Digital Freedom Award. Although still detained at the time in Adra Prison, Bassel was able to communicate his gratitude through Dana Trometer and Jon Phillips receiving the award on his behalf, wherein he paid \"respect to all the victims of the struggle for freedom of speech, and, especially for those non-violent youths who refused to carry arms and deserve all the credit for this award.\"\n\nKhartabil was arrested and put in prison on 15 March 2012. He was moved about from one prison to another, including a high-security military prison. At times he was able to get letters out to friends and family while in Adra Prison, but at other times he was allegedly tortured and kept in confinement, without contact. In 2015, he was reportedly executed, but this was not confirmed until 2017.\n\nAfter his detention became widely known in early July 2012, a global campaign was launched calling for his immediate release. Notable Internet companies like Mozilla, Wikipedia, Global Voices, EFF and Creative Commons wrote letters to the Syrian government urging his immediate release. Notable individuals like Lawrence Lessig, Joi Ito, Mitchell Baker, Jillian York, Mohamed Nanabhay and Barry Threw wrote public letters of support. Al Jazeera, Framablog, and Hackernews wrote about the effort.\n\nIn October 2012, Amnesty International released a document with information suggesting that Khartabil has been ill-treated and even tortured. On 23 October, the Taiwan chapter of Amnesty International led a letter-writing event at Insomnia Cafe to raise awareness about Khartabil in Taipei, Taiwan. On 26 November, he was named one of the top 100 global thinkers by Foreign Policy for his resistance.\n\nIn December, he was moved to a military prison to await a military trial. In response, a fasting campaign was launched to raise awareness about Khartabil's deteriorating incarceration situation. On 25 January 2013, reports circulated about the pending trial and fears of his execution. On 15 March the #FREEBASSEL project organized a #FREEBASSELDAY campaign with Creative Commons, Mozilla, and other community leaders, leading to public artworks, meetups, press, and videos.\n\nOn 22 May, commemorating Khartabil's 32nd birthday—the second time he spent a birthday in prison as well as the 799th day of the Syrian conflict—the Index on Censorship, Creative Commons, and the #FREEBASSEL campaign launched Project Sunlight, to uncover more information about Khartabil's condition and location. His mother wrote, \"\"I just want him free, I pray for him to be free and I pray for all his friends who believe and work on Bassel's freedom\".\"\n\nAt the Index on Censorship Awards, Jon Phillips said of Khartabil, \"Locking up Bassel only locks out his personal freedom. By locking up Bassel, his Syrian captors are accidentally locking out themselves from the future...thousands of people that Bassel’s work helped, now help him by spreading the message #FREEBASSEL. This is what truly builds Syria and connects it to the global connected future. This award proves that his lock-up, is NOT a lock-out of his digital freedom.\"\n\nA letter supporting him was sent to the European Union Parliament later that year.\n\nIn 2014, Marc Weidenbaum gathered participants to create 38 musical pieces that might be used as a soundscape for an immersive, completed digital visualization of ancient Palmyra. A second iteration of #FREEBASSELDAY involved a Wikipedia \"edit-a-thon\", meetups, the creation of a cookbook in Khartabil's honor, and press mentions.\n\nRebecca MacKinnon wrote about Khartabil and the Zone 9 Bloggers in the \"World Policy Journal\", and Wikipedia hosted an editathon for Zone 9 bloggers. On Human Rights Day, Global Voices led a campaign to raise awareness about his imprisonment.\n\nIn March 2015, the Electronic Frontier Foundation hosted a for #FREEBASSELDAY. In addition, the Creative Commons Arab World organized a virtual Arabic Wikipedia edit-a-thon to translate and expand pages related to Bassel and his interests. He was later profiled with the launch of the EFF's Offline project, \"sharing the stories of imprisoned technologists and technology users.\"\n\nIn 2017, the #FREEBASSEL campaign asked supporters to do five public acts in honor of Khartabil, to be posted on social media.\n\nOn 12 September 2015, Jaysh al-Islam shelled and stormed the prison, taking control of two buildings. Until early October Khartabil was still in Adra Prison in the suburbs of Damascus, Syria. By 3 October, military police took him from his cell in Adra with a 'top secret' sealed order from the Military Field Court. He was transferred to an unknown location.\n\nOn 6 October, Amnesty International released a new report on Khartabil's status. A day later, Human Rights Watch and 30 other human rights organizations issued a letter demanding that Khartabil's whereabouts be disclosed. On 17 October, Creative Commons Board of Directors approved a resolution calling for Khartabil's release. On 21 October, the New Palmyra project was launched to carry on his 3D modeling work and other creative uses of data about Palmyra. A day later, the MIT Media Lab offered Khartabil a position of research scientist at the Center for Civic Media to work with Ethan Zuckerman on projects to make Syria's history available to the world. On 9 November, an anthology of essays in Khartabil's honor, entitled \"The Cost of Freedom: A Collective Inquiry\", was released under a Creative Commons public domain license. Two days afterward, unconfirmed rumors surfaced that Khartabil had been sentenced to death.\n\nIn August 2017, Khartabil's wife and friends reported they had seen a copy of official documents confirming he had been executed after his transfer from Adra prison in 2015.\n\nThe Electronic Frontier Foundation and the Wikimedia Foundation as well as Global Voices released statements mourning his loss.\n\nCreative Commons announced the creation of the \"Bassel Khartabil Memorial Fund\", to support projects in line with his ideas and work throughout his life. On 11 August, the Mozilla Foundation announced the creation of the \"Bassel Khartabil Free Culture Fellowship\", organized by Mozilla, Wikimedia, Creative Commons, the Jimmy Wales Foundation, #NEWPALMYRA and other groups. It is aimed at supporting individuals developing free culture, particularly under adverse circumstances.\n\nStarting in 2005, Khartabil began collecting photographs of the ancient architecture and archaeology sites in Palmyra, in the hopes of reconstructing the city online, using 3D models and virtual spaces.\n\nHis efforts were put on hold when he was imprisoned, and some of his early work was lost. In 2015 his friends and colleagues launched the New Palmyra Project to bring that dream to life. Since then, many of the most famous structures in Palmyra have been modeled, and some life-size models built of structures that were destroyed in the Syrian Civil War.\n\nAs of 2017, most of the buildings and statues captured by the New Palmyra Project have been completely destroyed by ISIL.\n\nKhartabil wrote hundreds of letters while in prison, including some while he was in a high-security military prison, where writing was prohibited. He also produced some paintings and poetry. For a short time, he published some of his writing to an anonymous prison blog and Twitter account, via a friend.\n\"Jail is not walls, not the executioner and guards. It is the hidden fear in our hearts that makes us prisoners\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40777545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40777545", "title": "Bound by Law? Tales from the Public Domain", "text": "Bound by Law? Tales from the Public Domain\n\nBound by Law?: Tales from the Public Domain is a comic book about intellectual property law and the public domain published in 2008 by Duke University Press. Written by Keith Aoki, James Boyle and Jennifer Jenkins and supported by the Center for the Study of the Public Domain at the Duke Law School, the book was first released in a free digital edition under a Creative Commons license in 2006. The 2008 edition has an introduction by Cory Doctorow and a foreword by Davis Guggenheim.\n\nThe comic was widely reviewed, as an editor's pick by \"\" and by the \"Michigan Law Review\" among others.\n\nThe comic follows a fictional filmmaker named Akiko who struggles with the practicalities of applying the fair use doctrine while making a documentary film. The book is \"illustrated with a mix of hand-drawn artwork and collages of pop culture images\".\n\nThe book has also been used as a resource for educators, recommended by the National Writing Project and used by workshops at the Ohio State University.\n\n"}
{"id": "43045000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43045000", "title": "Building performance simulation", "text": "Building performance simulation\n\nBuilding performance simulation (BPS) (\"formerly known as building energy simulation or building energy modeling\") is the use of software to predict performance aspects of a building. The objective is to create a virtual model that is sufficiently accurate to form a useful representation of the actual building. BPS forecasts the various energy and mass flows within a building, in order to evaluate one or several performance aspects using computer simulation.\n\nFrom a physical point of view, a building is a very complex system, influenced by a wide range of parameters. A simulation model is an abstraction of the real building which allows to consider the influences on high level of detail and to analyze key performance indicators without cost-intensive measurements. BPS is a technology of considerable potential that provides the ability to quantify and compare the relative cost and performance attributes of a proposed design in a realistic manner and at relatively low effort and cost. Energy demand, indoor environmental quality (incl. thermal and visual comfort, indoor air quality and moisture phenomena), HVAC and renewable system performance, urban level modeling, building automation, and operational optimization are important aspects of BPS.\n\nOver the last six decades, numerous BPS computer programs have been developed. The most comprehensive listing of BPS software can be found in the BEST directory. Some of them only cover certain parts of BPS (e.g. climate analysis, thermal comfort, energy calculations, plant modeling, daylight simulation etc.). The core tools in the field of BPS are multi-domain, dynamic, whole-building simulation tools, which provide users with key indicators such as heating and cooling load, energy demand, temperature trends, humidity, thermal and visual comfort indicators, air pollutants, ecological impact and costs.\n\nA typical building simulation model has inputs for local weather; building geometry; building envelope characteristics; internal heat gains from lighting, occupants and equipment loads; heating, ventilation, and cooling (HVAC) system specifications; operation schedules and control strategies. The ease of input and accessibility of output data varies widely between BPS tools. Advanced whole-building simulation tools are able to consider almost all of the following in some way with different approaches.\n\nNecessary input data for a whole-building simulation:\nSome examples for key performance indicators:\nOther use of BPS software\n\nThe history of BPS is approximately as long as that of computers. The very early developments in this direction started in the late 50's and early 60's in the United States and Sweden. During this period, several methods had been introduced for analyzing single system components (e.g. gas boiler) using steady state calculations.The very first reported simulation tool for buildings was BRIS, introduced in 1963 by the Royal Institute of Technology in Stockholm. Until the late 60's, several models with hourly resolution had been developed focusing on energy assessments and heating/cooling load calculations. This effort resulted in more powerful simulation engines released in the early 70's, among those were BLAST, DOE-2, ESP-r, HVACSIM+ and TRNSYS. In the United States, the 1970's energy crisis intensified these efforts, as reducing the energy consumption of buildings became an urgent domestic policy interest. The energy crisis also initiated development of U.S. building energy standards, beginning with ASHRAE 90-75.\n\nThe development of building simulation represents a combined effort between academia, governmental institutions, industry, and professional organizations. Over the past decades the building simulation discipline has matured into a field that offers unique expertise, methods and tools for building performance evaluation. Several review papers and state of the art analysis were carried out during that time giving an overview about the development.\n\nIn the 1980s, a discussion about future directions for BPS among a group of leading building simulation specialists started. There was a consensus that most of the tools, that had been developed until then, were too rigid in their structure to be able to accommodate the improvements and flexibility that would be called for in the future. Around this time, the very first equation-based building simulation environment ENET was developed, which provided the foundation of SPARK. In 1989, Sahlin and Sowell presented a Neutral Model Format (NMF) for building simulation models, which is used today in the commercial software IDA ICE. Four years later, Klein introduced the Engineering Equation Solver (EES) and in 1997, Mattsson and Elmqvist reported on an international effort to design Modelica.\n\nBPS still presents challenges relating to problem representation, support for performance appraisal, enabling operational application, and delivering user education, training, and accreditation. Clarke (2015) describes a future vision of BPS with the following, most important tasks which should be addressed by the global BPS community.\n\nIn the context of building simulation models, error refers to the discrepancy between simulation results and the actual measured performance of the building. There are normally occurring uncertainties in building design and building assessment, which generally stem from approximations in model inputs, such as occupancy behavior. Calibration refers to the process of \"tuning\" or adjusting assumed simulation model inputs to match observed data from the utilities or Building Management System (BMS).\n\nThe number of publications dealing with accuracy in building modeling and simulation increased significantly over the past decade. Many papers report large gaps between simulation results and measurements, while other studies show that they can match very well. The reliability of results from BPS depends on many different things, e.g. on the quality of input data, the competence of the simulation engineers and on the applied methods in the simulation engine. An overview about possible causes for the widely discussed performance gap from design stage to operation is given by de Wilde (2014) and a progress report by the Zero Carbon Hub (2013). Both conclude the factors mentioned above as the main uncertainties in BPS.\n\nASHRAE Standard 140-2017 \"Standard Method of Test for the Evaluation of Building Energy Analysis Computer Programs (ANSI Approved)\" provides a method to validate the technical capability and range of applicability of computer programs to calculate thermal performance. ASHRAE Guideline 4-2014 provides performance indices criteria for model calibration. The performance indices used are normalized mean bias error (NMBE), coefficient of variation (CV) of the root mean square error (RMSE), and R (coefficient of determination). ASHRAE recommends a R greater than 0.75 for calibrated models. The criteria for NMBE and CV RMSE depends on if measured data is available at a monthly or hourly timescale.\n\nGiven the complexity of building energy and mass flows, it is generally not possible to find an analytical solution, so the simulation software employs other techniques, such as response function methods, or numerical methods in finite differences or finite volume, as an approximation. Most of today's whole building simulation programs formulate models using imperative programming languages. These languages assign values to variables, declare the sequence of execution of these assignments and change the state of the program, as is done for example in C/C++, Fortran or MATLAB/Simulink. In such programs, model equations are tightly connected to the solution methods, often by making the solution procedure part of the actual model equations. The use of imperative programming languages limits the applicability and extensibility of models. More flexibility offer simulation engines using symbolic Differential Algebraic Equations (DAEs) with general purpose solvers that increase model reuse, transparency and accuracy. Since some of these engines have been developed for more than 20 years (e.g. IDA ICE) and due to the key advantages of equation-based modeling, these simulation engines can be considered as state of the art technology.\n\nBuilding simulation models may be developed for both new or existing buildings. Major use categories of building performance simulation include:\n\nThere are hundreds of software tools available for simulating the performance of buildings and building subsystems, which range in capability from whole-building simulations to model input calibration to building auditing. Among whole-building simulation software tools, it is important to draw a distinction between the simulation engine, which dynamically solves equations rooted in thermodynamics and building science, and the modeler application (interface).\n\nIn general, BPS software can be classified into\n\nContrary to this presentation, there are some tools that in fact do not meet these sharp classification criteria, such as ESP-r which can also be used as a modeler application for EnergyPlus and there are also other applications using the IDA simulation environment, which makes \"IDA\" the engine and \"ICE\" the modeler. Most modeler applications support the user with a graphical user interface to make data input easier. The modeler creates an input file for the simulation engine to solve. The engine returns output data to the modeler application or another visualization tool which in turn presents the results to the user. For some software packages, the calculation engine and the interface may be the same product. The table below gives an overview about commonly used simulation engines and modeler applications for BPS.\nSince the 90's, building performance simulation has undergone the transition from a method used mainly for research to a design tool for mainstream industrial projects. However, the utilization in different countries still varies greatly. Building certification programs like LEED (USA), BREEAM (UK) or DGNB (Germany) showed to be a good driving force for BPS to find broader application. Also, national building standards that allow BPS based analysis are of good help for an increasing industrial adoption, such as in the United States (ASHRAE 90.1), Sweden (BBR), Switzerland (SIA) and the United Kingdom (NCM).\n\nThe Swedish building regulations are unique in that computed energy use has to be verified by measurements within the first two years of building operation. Since the introduction in 2007, experience shows that highly detailed simulation models are preferred by modelers to reliably achieve the required level of accuracy. Furthermore, this has fostered a simulation culture where the design predictions are close to the actual performance. This in turn has led to offers of formal energy guarantees based on simulated predictions, highlighting the general business potential of BPS.\n\nIn a performance-based approach, compliance with building codes or standards is based on the predicted energy use from a building simulation, rather than a prescriptive approach, which requires adherence to stipulated technologies or design features. Performance-based compliance provides greater flexibility in the building design as it allows designers to miss some prescriptive requirements if the impact on building performance can be offset by exceeding other prescriptive requirements. The certifying agency provides details on model inputs, software specifications, and performance requirements.\n\nThe following is a list of U.S. based energy codes and standards that reference building simulations to demonstrate compliance:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46491709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46491709", "title": "Canada–Australia salmon trade dispute", "text": "Canada–Australia salmon trade dispute\n\nIn the 1990s, a trade dispute over fresh salmon arose between Canada and Australia. In 1995, Canada made a complaint to the World Trade Organization, of which both countries are members, about Australia's restriction on imports of fresh salmon, which were part of a quarantine measure for health purposes.\n\nWTO dispute resolution favored Canada, both in a 1997 panel decision and in a subsequent decision by the WTO Appellate Body. The WTO determined that the Agreement on the Application of Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures (SPS Agreement) did not allow Australia's import ban. The WTO ordered Australia to lift its ban and increased quarantine requirements not only for salmon, but for imports of other species of fish as well. The parties settled their dispute in 2000.\n\nIn the 1990s, major world salmon exporters include Canada, Norway, Chile, Scotland, Sweden, Denmark, New Zealand, and Australia. In 1995, Australia had a 100 million AUD (75.1 million USD) salmon industry, with a total value of Australian salmon exports (mostly to east Asia, particularly Japan) of about 40 million dollars.\n\nIn 1975, Australia imposed a ban on imports of fresh salmon under a quarantine regulation intended to prevent entry of imported diseases into fish stock in Australia. Australia did allow imports of non-fresh salmon, including salmon that had been heat-treated by canning (see salmon cannery) or smoking, which reduces the risk of disease. In 1995, the annual value of such imports to Australia was about 52 million dollars, with almost half of these imports coming from Canada. Australian salmon had an advantage in Japanese and other markets, selling for premiums up to 20 percent over other imported fresh salmon, because of Australian environmental regulations.\n\nIn the 1990s, however, tensions arose between Canada and Australia over Australia's regulation, negatively affecting the two countries' relations. The Australians argued that the ban was justified on health grounds; the Canadians argued that there was no scientific evidence that Canadian fresh-salmon imports would be unsafe and that the ban was simply protectionism.\n\nIn the 1990s, Canada brought a dispute to the World Trade Organization (WTC) against Australia regarding the importation of salmon. The official title of the case was Australia — Measures Affecting Importation of Salmon, Dispute DS18. The dispute was the first challenged under the 1994 Agreement on the Application of Sanitary and Phytosanitary Measures (SPS Agreement) reached following the 1994 Uruguay Round.\n\nThe case formally began with Canada's request for consultations on October 1995. Canada alleged that Australia's prohibition on Canadian salmon imports under the Australian quarantine regulation was inconsistent with the SPS Agreement and articles XI and XIII of the 1994 General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT).\n\nFollowing requests from Canada to establish a panel, the DSB did so in April 1997. The European Communities, India, Norway, and the United States reserved their third-party rights. The panel was composed in May 1997, and the panel report circulated in June 1998. The panel determined that Australia's important ban was \"inconsistent with Articles 2.2, 2.3, 5.1, 5.5, and 5.6 of the SPS Agreement, and also nullified or impaired benefits accruing to Canada under the SPS Agreement.\"\n\nIn June 1998, Australia filed a notice of its intention to appeal the panel's decision to the WTO Appellate Body. The Appellate Body report circulated in October 1998. The Appellate Body reversed the panel with respect to its reasoning on Articles 5.1 and 2.2 of the SPS Agreement, but found that Australia \"had acted inconsistently\" with those sections. The Appellate Body also broadened the panel's determination that Australia had acted inconsistently with Articles 5.5 and 2.3 of the SPS Agreement. Finally the Appellate Body \"reversed the panel's finding that Australia had acted inconsistently with Article 5.6 of the SPS Agreement but was unable to come to a conclusion whether or not Australia's measure was consistent with Article 5.6 due to insufficient factual findings by the panel.\" The decision directed Australia not only to lift the ban on Canadian salmon, but also the quarantine requirements for several other species of fish.\n\nThe DSB adopted the Appellate Body report and the panel report, as modified by the Appellate Body report in November 1998. Australia expressed its intention to abide by the DSB's decision.\n\nIn December 1998, Canada requested arbitration under to Article 21.3(c) of the Dispute Settlement Understanding (DSU) \"to determine the reasonable period of time for implementation of the recommendations of the DSB.\" The Article 21.3(c) Arbitration Report was circulated in February 1999; it determined that the reasonable period of time for implementation was eight months (i.e., the period ending on July 6, 1999).\n\nAfter Canada brought this dispute to the WTO, Australia published the \"1999 Import Risk Analysis\" arguing that the import of frozen, fresh or chilled salmon is a health risk.\n\nIn 1999, Canada made requests under the DSU for a determination by the original panel of whether the implementation measures taken by Australia were consistent with WTO rules as determined in the dispute-resolution proceedings. At its meeting of July 28, 1999, the DSB agreed to take up Canada's request and referred the matter back to the original panel. The EC, Norway and the U.S. again reserved their third-party rights.\n\nThe compliance panel was composed in September 1999 and circulated its report in February 2000, finding:\n\nThe DSB adopted the report of the compliance panel in March 2000.\n\nIn July 1999, before compliance proceedings began, Canada requested authorization from the DSB, pursuant to Article 22.2 of the DSU, to suspend concessions to Australia because of its non-compliance. Australia objected to Canada's proposed level of suspension of concessions and requested that the matter be referred to arbitration, pursuant to Article 22.6. The DSB agreed to this request, but the arbitration proceedings were suspended until after the compliance proceedings concluded.\n\nAt the DSB meeting of May 18, 2000, following the compliance panel's decision, and following discussion between the WTO and the governments of the two countries, sectors of each government and the panel, Canada announced that it had come to an agreement with Australia to bring the dispute to a close. The parties exchanged letters detailing the agreement. Under the agreement, \"Canada would monitor closely Australia's commitment to implement the agreement\" by June 1, 2000. The agreement became effective on schedule on June 1, 2000.\n\nThe Canadian Food Inspection Agency (CFIA) verifies that exported foods and food products meet the Canadian standards just as an importing country would. Countries have their own requirements for foods and food products and the Canadian government understands this and respects those requirements. Canada has implemented the fish inspection act to help regulate the export of fish and fish products. The efforts Canada has put towards achieving a substantial export in their fish (salmon) shows speculation towards Australia.\n\nAquaculture in Australia is the country's fastest growing primary industry accounting for 34% of the countries seafood production. Salmon is a part of this movement across the country with Atlantic salmon becoming a mainstream fish produced through the aquaculture systems. Salmon farms are found in Tasmania, Victoria and South Australia and while they are making an effort to improve salmon farming offshore and inshore it is still producing a small amount of salmon for Australia.\n\nAlthough the countries were developing a negative trade relationship, Australia values its long-standing close and productive relationship with Canada. Their trade relationship dates back over 100 years and the two countries continuously work together. Australian and Canadian military forces fought side by side in both World Wars, The Korean War and the 1990-91 Gulf War. Both countries have forces in Afghanistan making movements to stabilize that country as close military allies.\n\n\nRelevant articles of the SPS Agreement\n"}
{"id": "5883709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5883709", "title": "Carriage of Goods by Sea Act", "text": "Carriage of Goods by Sea Act\n\nThe Carriage of Goods by Sea Act (\"COGSA\") is a United States statute governing the rights and responsibilities between shippers of cargo and ship-owners regarding ocean shipments to and from the United States. It is the U.S. enactment of the International Convention Regarding Bills of Lading, commonly known as the \"Hague Rules\". It was found in Title 46 Appendix of the United States Code, starting at Section 1301, but has been moved to a note in 46 United States Code 30701.\n\nThe United States Congress, concerned that the Hague Rules did not offer shippers enough protection against damage to cargo by shipowners, amended the Hague Rules in a number of minor, but important, ways. It increased the amount that shipowners would have to pay cargo owners for damage in transit from GBP 100 per package to US$500 per package or, for goods not shipped in packages, per customary freight unit. This \"package limitation\" has become one of the most contentious and litigious areas in the field of cargo damage, particularly as it relates to the transportation of goods by ocean shipping containers.\n\nAt the time of the passage of COGSA most cargo was shipped in boxes, crates, and bags. Shortly after its passage, cargo owners determined that cargo could be handled more efficiently if placed on pallets, a process that results in numerous boxes or bags of cargo being consolidated on a single pallet. Shipowners, seeing an opportunity to reduce their liability for cargo damage, argued to the courts that the pallets were now \"packages\" and that they were entitled to limit their liability to $500 per pallet. Some courts agreed.\n\nLater, shipowners began offering cargo owners the opportunity to ship their cargoes in large ocean shipping containers. The containers came in two sizes — high x wide x long (2.4 m x 2.4 m x 6 m) or 8 x 8 x long. The term \"Twenty-foot equivalent unit\" or TEU derived from this size - a TEU was a space aboard a ship that was wide by high by long.\n\nShipowners, again seeing an opportunity to limit their liability, began arguing that the containers were \"packages\" and that they could limit their liability to $500 per container, even though the contents of a container may be valued at over $500,000. Again, some courts agreed.\n\nIt is this imbalance, both in the relative bargaining power of cargo owners, and the superior bargaining power of shipowners, and the imbalance between $500 per container and the true value of a shipment which has led to countless lawsuits and judicial opinions over the \"package limitation\" problem.\n\nThe rest of the world, seeing this as an attempt by shipowners to free themselves from responsibility for protecting cargo, amended the Hague Rules in 1968 with the Visby Amendments which eliminated the \"per package\" limitation and substituted a limitation per kilogram. In so doing, litigation concerning limitations on liability became virtually non-existent outside the United States. However, Congress failed to pass the Visby Amendments to the Hague Rules.\n\nMany types of cargo are not shipped in packages such as automobiles, yachts, cranes, and heavy construction equipment. For those cargoes, Congress had intended the limitation on liability for shipowners to be $500 per 100 cubic feet (3.7 m).\n\nAt the time of the passage of COGSA the customary freight unit for most cargo was the \"revenue ton\" - the number of long tons (2240 lb, 1017 kg) or measurement tons (100 cubic feet) that would produce the most revenue for the shipowner. For example, a cargo of aluminium ingots, which were not packaged for shipment, would be heavy and dense, so the customary freight unit for aluminum ingots would be the long ton, a measurement of weight. By comparison, a shipment of canoes, which were not packaged for shipment, would be light but would take up a large volume, ensuring the customary freight unit would be the measurement ton of . If a canoe were wide by high by long (0.6 m x 0.6 m x 3 m), its measurement would be 40 cubic feet (2 x 2 x 10) which would be one measurement ton (anything less than 100 would be 1 by default) and hence the limitation would be $500 per canoe.\n\nThe courts, possibly believing that Congress' approach was too cumbersome, jettisoned the word \"customary\" from the phrase \"customary freight unit\" and decided that whatever freight unit the shipowner applied would be the freight unit for determining the limitation on liability. Again, seeing an opportunity to limit their liability for cargo damage, shipowners began freighting all cargo by unit, rather than by units of weight or measurement. Consequently, an automobile which might have a volume of 400 cubic feet (15 m), or 4 measurement tons, which would previously entitle the carrier to a limitation of $2000, was now freighted as \"one automobile\" thereby reducing the shipowner's liability from $2000 per automobile to $500.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "84705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=84705", "title": "Citizens band radio", "text": "Citizens band radio\n\nCitizens band radio (also known as CB radio) is, in many countries, a system of short-distance radio communications between individuals typically on a selection of 40 channels within the 27 MHz (11 m) band. Citizens band is distinct from other personal radio service allocations such as FRS, GMRS, MURS, UHF CB and the Amateur Radio Service (\"ham\" radio). In many countries, CB operation does not require a license, and (unlike amateur radio) it may be used for business or personal communications. Like many other two-way radio services, citizens band channels are shared by many users. Only one station may transmit at a time; other stations must listen and wait for the shared channel to be available. It is customary for stations waiting to use a shared channel to broadcast the single word \"Break\" followed by the channel number, during a lull in the conversation. This informs people using the channel that others are waiting.\n\nA number of countries have created similar radio services, with varying technical standards and requirements for licensing. While they may be known by other names, such as the General Radio Service in Canada, they often use similar frequencies (26 to 28 MHz) and have similar uses, and similar technical standards. Although licenses may be required, eligibility is generally simple. Some countries also have personal radio services in the UHF band, such as the European PMR446 and the Australian UHF CB.\n\nThe citizens band radio service originated in the United States as one of several personal radio services regulated by the Federal Communications Commission (FCC). These services began in 1945 to permit citizens a radio band for personal communication (e.g., radio-controlled model airplanes and family and business communications). In 1948, the original CB radios were designed for operation on the 460–470 MHz UHF band. There were two classes of CB radio: \"A\" and \"B\". Class B radios had simpler technical requirements, and were limited to a smaller frequency range. Al Gross established the Citizens Radio Corporation during the late 1940s to manufacture Class B handhelds for the general public.\n\nUltra-high frequency (UHF) radios, at the time, were neither practical nor affordable for the average consumer. On September 11, 1958 the Class D CB service was created on 27 MHz, and this band became what is popularly known today as \"Citizens Band\". There were only 23 channels at the time; the first 22 were taken from the former amateur radio service 11-meter band, and channel 23 was shared with radio-controlled devices. Some hobbyists continue to use the designation \"11 meters\" to refer to the Citizens Band and adjoining frequencies. Part 95 of the Code of Federal Regulations regulates the Class D CB service, on the 27 MHz band, since the 1970s and continuing today. Most of the 460–470 MHz band was reassigned for business and public-safety use; Class A CB is the forerunner of the General Mobile Radio Service (GMRS). Class B CB is a more distant ancestor of the Family Radio Service. The Multi-Use Radio Service is another two-way radio service in the VHF high band. An unsuccessful petition was filed in 1973 to create a Class E CB service at 220 MHz, which was opposed by amateur radio organizations and others. There are several other classes of personal radio services for specialized purposes (such as remote control devices).\n\nDuring the 1960s, the service was popular among small businesses (e.g., electricians, plumbers, carpenters), truck drivers and radio hobbyists. By the late 1960s advances in solid-state electronics allowed the weight, size, and cost of the radios to fall, giving the public access to a communications medium previously only available to specialists. CB clubs were formed; a CB slang language evolved alongside 10-codes, similar to those used in emergency services.\n\nAfter the 1973 oil crisis, the U.S. government imposed a nationwide 55 mph speed limit, and fuel shortages and rationing were widespread. CB radio was used (especially by truckers) to locate service stations with better supplies of fuel, to notify other drivers of speed traps, and to organize blockades and convoys in a 1974 strike protesting the new speed limit and other trucking regulations. The radios were crucial for independent truckers; many were paid by the mile, which meant their productivity was impacted by the 55-mph speed limit. The use of CB radios in 1970s films such as \"Smokey and the Bandit\" (1977), \"Breaker! Breaker!\" (1977) and \"Convoy\" (1978), popular novelty songs such as C.W. McCall's \"Convoy\" (1975), providing inspiration for songs like \"Breaker-Breaker\" from the Outlaws (1976), and on television series such as \"Movin' On\" (debuted in 1974) and \"The Dukes of Hazzard\" (debuted 1979) established CB radio as a nationwide craze in the United States in the mid- to late 1970s.\n\nOriginally, CB (named Citizens Radio by the Federal Communications Commission as of 1972) required a purchased license ($20 in the early 1970s, reduced to $4 on March 1, 1975) and the use of a callsign; however, when the CB craze was at its peak many people ignored this requirement and invented their own nicknames (known as \"handles\"). Rules on authorized use of CB radio (along with lax enforcement) led to widespread disregard of the regulations (notably in antenna height, distance communications, licensing, call signs and transmitter power).\n\nBetty Ford, the former First Lady of the United States, used the CB handle \"First Mama\". Voice actor Mel Blanc was also an active CB operator, often using \"Bugs\" or \"Daffy\" as his handle and talking on the air in the Los Angeles area in one of his many voice characters. He appeared in an interview (with clips having fun talking to children on his home CB radio station) in the \"NBC Knowledge\" television episode about CB radio in 1978. Similar to internet chat rooms a quarter-century later, CB allowed people to get to know one another in a quasi-anonymous manner.\n\nOriginally, there were 23 CB channels in the U.S.; the 40-channel band plan was implemented in 1977. Additionally, there were two more channels between 22 & 23, commonly referred to as 22A & 22B. Several people had 22A, but not many had 22B. In the early 1970s Radio Shack sold a \"base station\" CB radio that contained a crystal for each of the 23 channels, two extra slots existed, and you could order the 22A & 22B crystals for an easy plug-in. Channel 9 was officially reserved for emergency use by the FCC in 1969. Channel 10 was originally often used for highway travel communications east of the Mississippi River, and channel 19 west of the Mississippi; channel 19 then became the preferred highway channel in most areas, as it did not have adjacent-channel interference problems with channel 9. Many CBers called channel 19 \"the trucker's channel\". Channel 11 was originally restricted by the FCC for use as the calling channel.\n\nThe original FCC output power limitation for CB radios was \"5 watts DC input to the final amplifier stage\", which was a reference to the earlier radios equipped with tubes. With solid state radios becoming more common in the 1970s, this specification was rewritten by the FCC at the same time the authorized channels were increased to 40. The current specification is simply \"4 watts output (AM) or 12 watts output (SSB)\" as measured at the antenna connector on the back of the radio. The old specification was often used in false advertising by some manufacturers who would claim their CB radios had \"5 watts\" long after the specification had changed to 4 watts output. The older 23-channel radios built under the old specifications typically had an output of around 3.5 to 3.8 watts output when measured at the antenna connector. The FCC simply rounded up the old \"5 watts DC input to the final amplifier stage\" specification to the new \"4 watts output as measured at the antenna connector on the back of the radio\", resulting in a far simpler and easier specification.\n\nInitially, the FCC intended for CB to be the \"poor man's business-band radio\", and CB regulations were structured similarly to those regulating the business band radio service. Until 1975, only channels 9-14 and 23 could be used for \"interstation\" calls (to other licensees). Channels 1-8 and 15-22 were reserved for \"intrastation\" communications (among units with the same license). After the inter-station/intra-station rule was dropped, channel 11 was reserved as a calling frequency (for the purpose of establishing communications); however, this was withdrawn in 1977. During this early period, many CB radios had \"inter-station\" channels colored on their dials, while the other channels were clear or normally colored (except channel 9, which was usually colored red). It was common for a town to adopt an inter-station channel as its \"home\" channel. This helped prevent overcrowding on Channel 11, enabling a CBer to monitor a town's home channel to contact another CBer from that town instead of a making a general call on Channel 11.\n\nSince CB was coming down in price and VHF Marine Band was still expensive, many boaters put CB radios on their boats. Business caught on to this market, and introduced marine CBs containing a weather band (WX). There was a lot of controversy about whether or not the Coast Guard should monitor CB radio, but they did, using Motorola base stations installed at their search and rescue stations. The Coast Guard stopped this practice in the late 1980s and recommends VHF Marine Band radios for boaters.\n\nCB has lost much of its original appeal due to development of mobile phones, the internet and the Family Radio Service. Changing radio propagation for long-distance communications due to the 11-year sunspot cycle is a factor at these frequencies. In addition, CB may have become a victim of its own popularity; with millions of users on a finite number of frequencies during the mid-to-late 1970s and early 1980s, channels often were noisy and communication difficult. This caused a waning of interest among hobbyists. Business users (such as tow-truck operators, plumbers and electricians) moved to the VHF and UHF business-band frequencies. The business band requires an FCC license, and usually results in an assignment to a single frequency. The advantages of fewer users sharing a frequency, greater authorized output power, clarity of FM transmission, lack of interference by distant stations due to \"skip\" propagation, and consistent communications made the VHF (Very High Frequency) radio an attractive alternative to the overcrowded CB channels.\n\nChannel 9 is restricted by the FCC to only emergency communications and roadside assistance. Most highway travelers monitor channel 19. CB radio is still used by truck drivers, and remains an effective means of obtaining information about road construction, accidents and police speed traps.\n\nBefore CB was authorized in Australia, there were hand-held 27 MHz \"walkie-talkies\" which used several frequencies between the present CB channels, such as 27.240 MHz. By the mid-1970s, hobbyists were experimenting with handheld radios and unauthorized 23-channel American CB radios. At that time in Australia, the 11-meter band was still used by licensed ham operators and Emergency Services, but not yet available for CB use. A number of CB clubs had formed by this time which assigned call signs to members, exchanged QSL cards, and lobbied for the legalisation of CB. In late 1977, having legalised Australian CB and allowed the import/sale of American and Japanese 23-channel sets, the Federal Government drafted new interim regulations for Australian 18-channel transceivers. The new RB249 regulations came in on January 1, 1978 and the last official registration date for 23-channel sets was January 31, 1978. After this date, use of unregistered 23-channel CB sets was deemed illegal and unlicensed sets were no longer be eligible to be licensed. The 18-channel band plan used 16 channels of the 23 channel CB radios plus 2 extra channels, namely 27.095 and 27.195, to make up the 18 channels. The original channels 1,2,3,4,10,21 and 23 were deleted from the 18-channel band plan. So channel 1 on an 18 channel was actually channel 5 on a 23-channel radio. On January 1, 1982, the American 40-channel band plan was adopted.\n\nFrom the outset, the government attempted to regulate CB radio with license fees and call signs, but eventually they abandoned this approach. Enthusiasts rushed for licences when the doors opened at post offices around Australia in mid-1977 and by the end of the first quarter of 1978 there had been an estimated 200,000 licences issued (Australia's Population in 1978 was 14.36 Million). The regulations called for one licence per CB radio. The price for a licence in 1977 was AU$25 Per Year (In mid 1977 the Australian Dollar exchange rate was AU 90 cents to US $1), a not insubstantial amount for the average Australian wage-earner. Australian CB radio uses AM, USB, and LSB modes (No FM) on 27MHz, allowed output power being 4 Watts AM and 12 Watts SSB. UHF is 477 MHz, with an output power of 5 Watts. When CB was first legalised the 27 MHz CB Band was intended to be closed to Australian CBers in 1982 and only the 477 MHz UHF band was to continue, but this did not eventuate. The first 477MHz CB radio in 1977 was designed and made in Australia by Philips and was a 40 channel CB called the FM320. 27 MHz CB Channel Allocation in Australia is Channel 8 (27.055 MHz) Truckies or Highway Channel, Channel 9 (27.065 MHz) Emergency, Channel 11 (27.085 MHz) AM Call Channel, Channel 16 (27.155 MHz) LSB SSB Call Channel, 35 (27.355 MHz) LSB 2nd SSB Call Channel. UHF CB Channel Allocation is Channel 5 Emergency, Channel 11 Call Channel, Channel 40 Truckies or Highway. (NOTE: Australians refer to heavy transport drivers as \"Truckies\", a local variation of the American term \"Truckers\". Aussie \"Truckies\" generally shied away from using the much-cliched American CB language and codes, glamorised in movies and popular US folk lore.)\n\nThe first CB club in Australia was the Charlie Brown Touring Car Club (CBTCC), which formed in Morwell, Victoria in 1967 and consisted mainly of four-wheel drive enthusiasts. The club used the prefix \"GL\" (for Gippsland), since \"CB\" could not be used. After July 1, 1977, the club changed its name to Citizens Band Two Way Communication Club (CBTCC). Other early clubs were \"LV\" (Latrobe Valley) and \"WB\" (named after Wayne Britain). Members of these clubs are still active, and have also become amateur radio operators. Other regional Australian cities which became CB radio \"hotspots\" were cities such as Seymour, Benalla, Holbrook and Gundagai, all located on the busy Hume Highway between Melbourne and Sydney. Other regional cities such as Bendigo, Mildura, Mount Gambier and Port Augusta, developed lively, colourful CB radio communities.\n\nWith the introduction of UHF CB radios in 1977, many operators used both UHF and HF radios and formed groups to own and operate local FM repeaters. Members of the CBTCC formed what became known as Australian Citizens Radio Movement (ACRM) in the early 1970s; this organization became the voice for legalization of CB radio throughout Australia. After peaking in the 1970s and early 1980s, the use of 27 MHz CB in Australia has fallen dramatically due to the introduction of 477 MHz UHF CB (with FM and repeaters) and the proliferation of cheap, compact handheld UHF transceivers. Technology such as mobile telephones and the internet have provided people with other choices for communications. The Australian government has changed the allocation of channels available for UHF CB Radio from 40 to 80, and doubled the number of repeater channels from 8 to 16. This was done by taking the existing channels that had a spacing of 25 kHz between (Known as wide band) them and placing new channels in between the old 40 channels. So now the channels have 12.5 kHz spacing between them (now called narrow band). But the original 40 channels are still on the original frequencies.\n\nAustralia also has Marine Radio Using 27 MHz.\nThere are several frequencies allocated to 27 MHz Marine Radio in Australia. The frequencies range from 27.6800 MHz to 27.9800 MHz. Mode:AM Power:4W Maximum. These Frequencies and Allocation are:\n\n27.6800 Ch 68 - Commercial calling and working\n27.7200 Ch 72 - Professional fishing calling and working (ship-shore/ship-ship)\n27.8200 Ch 82 - Professional fishing calling and working (ship-shore/ship-ship)\n27.8600 Ch 86 - Supplementary distress, safety and calling\n27.8800 Ch 88 - Distress, safety and calling\n27.9000 Ch 90 - Non-commercial calling and working (ship-shore)\n27.9100 Ch 91 - Non-commercial calling and working (ship-shore)\n27.9400 Ch 94 - Non-commercial club calling and working (ship-ship/ship-shore)\n27.9600 Ch 96 - Non-commercial calling and working (ship-ship)\n27.9800 Ch 98 - Rescue calling and working (ship-ship/ship-shore)\n\nIn Canada, the General Radio Service uses the identical frequencies and modes as the United States citizens band, and no special provisions are required for either Canadians or Americans using CB gear while traveling across the border. The General Radio Service was authorized in 1962. Initially, CB channels 1 through 3 remained allocated to amateur radio and channel 23 was used by paging services. American CB licensees were initially required to apply for a temporary license to operate in Canada. In April 1977, the service was expanded to the same 40 channels as the American service.\n\nIn Indonesia, CB radios were first introduced about 1977 when some transceivers were imported illegally from Australia, Japan and the United States. The dates are hard to confirm accurately, but early use was known around large cities such as Jakarta, Bandung, Yogyakarta, Surabaya and Medan. The Indonesian government legalized CB on 6 October 1980 with a decision by the Minister of Communications, the \"Ministerial Decree on the Licensing for the Operation of Inter-Citizens Radio Communication\". Because many people were already using 40-channel radios prior to legalization, the American band plan (with AM and SSB) was adopted; a VHF band was added in 1994, along with allowing use of the Australian UHF CB channel plan at 476-477 MHz On November 10, 1980, the Indonesian Directorate General of Posts and Telecommunications issued another decree establishing RAPI (\"Radio Antar Penduduk Indonesia\") as the official citizens band radio organization in Indonesia.\n\nIn Malaysia, citizens band radios became legal when the \"Notification of Issuance Of Class Assignments\" by Communication and Multimedia Malaysia was published on 1 April 2000. Under this class assignment, a CB radio is classified as a \"Personal Radio Service device\". The frequency band is HF, 26.9650 MHz to 27.4050 MHz (40 channels), power output is 4 watts for AM and FM and 12 watts PEP for SSB. Channel 9 is reserved for emergencies, and channel 11 is a calling channel. On UHF 477 MHz, citizens band PRS radio devices are allowed 5 watts power output on FM on 39 assigned channels spaced at 12.5-kHz intervals between 477.0125 MHz and 477.4875 MHz. Channel 9 is reserved for emergencies, and channel 11 for calling. A short-range simplex radio communications service for recreational use is from 477.5250–477.9875 MHz FM mode with 38 channels and a power output of 500 mW. A CB radio or Personal Radio Service Device under Class Assignment does not need an individual license to operate in Malaysia if it adheres to the rules of the \"Warta Kerajaan Malaysia\", Communication and Multimedia Act 1998 (Act 588), Notification of Issuance Of Class Assignment, P.U.(B)416 Jil. 48, No. 22(e) Personal Radio Service Device, 1 November 2004.\n\nOn April 1, 2010 the MCMC (Malaysian Communications and Multimedia Commission) released a new Notification of Issuance of Class Assignments, the Communications and Multimedia Act 1998 Class Assignments No. 1 of 2010 and later on 2017. This includes a new UHF PMR 446 MHz allocation: an eight-channel analog Personal Mobile Radio 446 MHz (Analog PMR446) with frequencies from 446.00625–446.09375 MHz (12.5 kHz spacing) FM with 0.5 watt power output, and 16 channels for Digital Personal Mobile Radio 446 MHz (Digital PMR 446). Frequencies for Digital PMR 446 are from 446.103125–446.196875 MHz with 6.25 kHz channel spacing in 4FSK mode and a power output of 0.5 watt. An unofficial citizens band radio club in Malaysia is the \"Malaysia Boleh Citizen Radio Group\", known as \"Mike Bravo\" (\"Malaysia Boleh\").\n\nIn the UK, small but growing numbers of people were illegally using American CB radios during the late 1970s and early 1980s. The prominence of CB radio grew in Britain partly due to the popularity of novelty songs like CW McCall's \"Convoy\" and Laurie Lingo & The Dipsticks' \"Convoy GB\" in 1976 (both of which were Top 5 hits) and the movie \"Convoy\" in 1978. CB radio use was even featured on one part of the popular television programme \"Are You Being Served?\". By 1980, CB radio was becoming a popular pastime in Britain; as late as the summer of 1981 the British government was still saying that CB would never be legalized on 27 MHz, proposing a UHF service around 860 MHz called \"Open Channel\" instead. However, in November 1981 (after high-profile public demonstrations) 40 frequencies unique to the UK, known as the 27/81 Bandplan using FM were allocated at 27 MHz plus 20 channels on 934 MHz (934.0125 to 934.9625 MHz with 50-kHz-spacing). CB's inventor, Al Gross, made the ceremonial first legal British CB call from Trafalgar Square in London.\n\nThe maximum power allowable on the MPT 1320 27/81 system was 4 watts (in common with the American system), although initially radios were equipped to reduce output power by 10 dB (to 0.4 watts) if the antenna was mounted more than 7 meters above ground level. The power-reduction switch is also useful in reducing TV interference. MPT 1320 also restricted antennas to a maximum length of 1.5 meters, with base loading being the only type permitted for 27 MHz operation. Over the next several years antenna regulations were relaxed, with antenna length increasing to 1.65 meters and centre- or top-loading of the main radiating element permitted. On September 1, 1987 the UK added the usual 40 frequencies (26.965–27.405 MHz) used worldwide, for a total of 80 channels at 27 MHz; antenna regulations were further relaxed, and the 934 MHz band was withdrawn in 1998.\n\nCB radio in the UK was deregulated in December 2006 by the regulatory body Ofcom, and CB radio in the UK is now license-free. The old MPT 1320 27/81 band will continue to be available for the foreseeable future. On 27 June 2014, changes were made by Ofcom to allow the use of AM & SSB modes on CB in the UK legally for the first time. The rules regarding non-approved radios and power levels above 4 watts on AM/FM and 12 W on SSB still apply, despite deregulation. Persons using illegal equipment or accessories still risk prosecution, fines or confiscation of equipment, although this is rarely enforced. AM and SSB on the freeband and amplifier use are common among enthusiasts. Packet radio is legal in the UK, although not widely used. Internet gateway stations are also beginning to appear; although illegal on 27 MHz, these units are connected to other CB stations around the world.\n\nAlthough the use of CB radios in the UK is limited they are still popular, especially with the farming community, truckers and mini-cab services. The widely used channel for the Young Farmers' Club is channel 11. The normal calling and truckers' channel is channel 19, although many truck organisations and groups use other channels to avoid abuse.\n\nCB radio is not a worldwide, standardized radio service. Each country decides if it wants to authorize such a radio service from its domestic frequency authorizations, and what its standards will be; however, similar radio services exist in many countries. Frequencies, power levels and modes (such as frequency modulation (FM), amplitude modulation (AM), and single-sideband modulation (SSB), often vary from country to country; use of foreign equipment may be illegal. However, many countries have adopted the American channels and their associated frequencies, which is generally in AM mode except some higher channels which are sometimes in SSB mode.\n\nThe standard channel numbering is harmonized through FCC (America) and CEPT (Europe) .\n\nSee also channel assignments for CB usage in the United States.\nWhen looking at the FCC/CEPT channel list there are some channels with an offset of 20 kHz instead of the regular 10 kHz step. These intermediate frequencies are reserved for the Radio Control Radio Service (RCRS) (formerly known as the Class C Citizens Radio Service until the 1976 changes). The RCRS service is commonly used for remote control of model aircraft and boats. It is an unofficial practice to name these channels by their next lower standard channel number along with an \"A\". Specifically channel 11A is used to power Eurobalises.\n\nSingle-sideband (SSB) operation involves the selection of either the Lower Side Band (LSB) or the Upper Side Band (USB) mode for transmit and receive. SSB radios also have the standard AM mode for communicating with standard CB radio models. With the original 23 CB channels SSB stations commonly used channel 16, to avoid interference to those using AM (SSB stations are authorized to use 12 watts, as opposed to 4 watts for AM stations) and to more easily locate other SSB stations. With the FCC authorization of 40 channels, SSB operation shifted to channels 36–40. Channel 36 (or 38 for LSB) became the unofficial SSB \"calling channels\" for stations seeking contacts, with the subsequent conversation moving to channels 37–40. CBers with AM-only radios are asked to not use channels 36 through 40. In return, SSB stations stay off the remaining 35 channels so they could be used by AM stations. This agreement provides interference-free operation for all operators by separating the far more powerful SSB stations from the AM stations. This solution also resolves the confusion created by the false advertising that SSB radios have 120 channels compared to only 40 for AM radios.\n\nWhile a SSB radio has three possible \"modes\" (AM, LSB, USB) it can operate in, operation is still limited to the same 40 channels. Some manufacturers tried to sell more radios by claiming that with three different modes possible for each channel, it was the equivalent to 120 channels. Reality is far different: Attempting an SSB conversation while an AM conversation is in progress results in jammed communications for everyone. In general, each channel can only support one AM conversation and no others; if no AM conversation is in progress, two SSB conversations can share one channel without interference if one is in LSB and the other in USB mode. For a particular conversation, everyone must be tuned to the same channel and same mode in order to talk with each other.\n\nThe European Conference of Postal and Telecommunications Administrations (CEPT) adopted the North American channel assignments, except channel nº 23, frequency 27.235 MHz; channel nº 24, frequency 27.245 MHz; channel nº 25, frequency 27.255 MHz. However, legal CB equipment sold in Europe does follow the North American channel designation. Some member countries permit additional modes and frequencies; for example, Germany has 40 additional channels at 26 MHz for a total of 80. The United Kingdom has an additional 40 channels between 27.60125 and 27.99125 MHz, also making 80 in total. Before CEPT, most member countries used a subset of the 40 US channels.\n\nIn Russia and Poland the channels are shifted 5 kHz down; for example, channel 30 is 27.300 MHz. Many operators add a switch to change between the \"zeroes\" (the Russian/Polish channel assignment) and the \"fives\" (the international/European assignment). Most contemporary radios for that markets can do \"fives\" as well as \"zeroes\" out of the box. Since roughly 2005–2006, Russia and Poland have adopted use of the standard US channel offset as well as the older channel plan, for two overlapping \"grids\" of channels.\n\nRussia uses an alphanumeric designation for their CB channel plans, due the fact that several \"grids\" or \"bands\" of 40 channels each are used, along with both AM and FM mode. Russian CB allocations follow the CB band 26.965 – 27.405 MHz (designated as band C), as well as 26.515 – 26.955 MHz (designated as band B) and 27.415 – 27.855 MHz (designated as band D). Some radios refer to the \"mid band\" (standard CB band) as \"band D\" which shifts the letters up one (making 26.515 to 26.955 MHz \"band C\" and 27.415 – 27.855 MHz \"band E\".\n\nFor the convenience of users of the grid were marked by letters. Classic is considered the marking when the main range is designated \"C\" letter. The most common description of the channel is considered to be similar to the following: (C9FM or C9EFM or C9EF or 9EF).\n\nIn it:\n\nAn example of correct designations: C9EF, C9EA, C9RF, C9RA\n\nThe 25 – 30 MHz band (including the CB allocations and frequencies above and below the 26.5 – 27.860 MHz band) is heavily used for taxi cab and other mobile two-way communications systems in Russia, Ukraine and other former USSR country states.\n\nNew Zealand and Japan have unique allocations that do not correspond to those of any other country. New Zealand authorizes use of their New Zealand specific 40-channel 26.330 – 26.770 MHz frequency plan in addition to the \"standard\" 40-channel 26.965 – 27.405 MHz frequency plan for a total of 80 HF CB channels. New Zealand has also adopted the Australian UHF CB System as well.\n\nJapan's CB allocation consists of 8 voice and 2 R/C channels with a maximum power output of 500 mW. AM mode is the only mode permitted and antennas must be non-removable and less than 199 cm (78 inches) long. In Japan, the 26 – 28 MHz range is allocated to fishery radio services and these frequencies are heavily used for marine communications. Japan's \"double side band fishery radio\" or \"DSB Fishery Radio Service\" covers 26.760 MHz-26.944 MHz, 27.016 MHz, and 27.524-27.988 MHz. However, frequencies such as 27.005 MHz AM are widely pirated in Japan with very high power transmitters. This causes interference to the authorized low-power 1 W DSB (1 watt AM) fishery radio service. Instead of 26 – 27 MHz, Japan has authorized several UHF-FM CB-type personal radio services in the 348 MHz, 420 – 422 MHz and 903 – 904 MHz bands.\n\n\n\nIndonesia has the usual 40 channels at 27 MHz, plus a unique 60-channel allocation from 142.050 MHz – 143.525 MHz.\n\nIn Brazil, CB operators can use up to (from 26.965 MHz to 27.805 MHz).\n\nSouth Africa, like New Zealand and the UK, permits the use of two HF CB bands. South Africa has a 23-channel AM/SSB 29 MHz CB allocation (called \"29 Megs\" or \"29 MHz CB\") from 29.710 MHz to 29.985 MHz in 12.5 kHz steps. South Africa also permits use of standard CB channels 19 through 27 (27.185 to 27.275 MHz) with AM/SSB permitted. Many radios sold in South Africa feature both the 27 MHz and 29 MHz bands. A license from ICASA is required to purchase or use a CB radio in South Africa.\n\nHungary allows use of the \"low channels\" for a total of 80 channels (26.515 MHz to 27.405 MHz).\n\nGermany authorizes a similar allocation, with 40 channels from 26.965 to 27.405 MHz and another 40 channels from 26.565 to 26.955 MHz in straight 10 kHz steps.\n\nThe Czech Republic authorizes 80 channels as well (same as the German 80 channel plan). As in Germany, digital modes are allowed on certain frequencies (channel 24 – 27.235 MHz, channel 25 – 27.245 MHz, channel 52 – 26.675 MHz, channel 53 – 26.685 MHz, channel 76 – 26.915 MHz, and channel 77 – 26.925 MHz). Internet gateways and radio repeaters are allowed on channels 18 (27.175 MHz) and 23 (27.255 MHz). Paging is permitted on channel 1 (26.965 MHz) and channel 80 (26.955 MHz) is the recommended call channel for Czech CB radio operators.\n\nUsing radios outside their intended market can be dangerous, as well as illegal, as frequencies used by Citizen's Band radios from other countries may operate on frequencies close to, or used by, emergency services (for example, the Indonesian service around 142 MHz operates on frequencies allocated to a public safety network shared with police, fire and EMS services in Ontario, Canada).\n\nIn the Philippines, up to present time, the use of 27 MHz CB is still banned since the Marcos regime banned it in 1980s. A few operators still illegally utilize the 40 CB channels. There are active CB groups that are now asking Senator Bongbong Marcos, the son of the late president Ferdinand Marcos, to lift the ban and make the use of CB radios legal again.\n\nCB was the only practical two‑way radio system for the individual consumer, and served several subsets of users such as truck drivers, radio hobbyists, and those in need of short‑range radio communications, such as electricians, plumbers, and carpenters, who needed to communicate between job site and main office. While some users have moved on to other radio services, CB is still a popular hobby in many countries. The 27 MHz frequencies used by CB, which require a relatively long aerial and tend to propagate poorly indoors, discourage the use of handheld radios. Many users of handheld radios (families, hunters and hikers) have moved on to 49 MHz and the UHF Family Radio Service; those needing a simple radio for professional use (e.g., tradesmen) have moved on to \"dot-color\" Business Band radios and the VHF Multi-Use Radio Service.\n\nCB is still popular among long-haul truck drivers to communicate directions, traffic problems and other relevant matters. The unofficial \"travelers channel\" in most of the world is channel 19; in Australia it is channel 8 (27.055 MHz) and UHF channel 40 (477.400 MHz). In Russia it is channel 15 (in addition to traditional \"emergency\" 9 and \"truckers\" 19 channels) and in Greece it is channel 13, all AM. These frequencies may have evolved because tuned circuits (particularly antennas) work best in the middle of the band; the frequency for channel 19 (not channel 20) is the center of the 40-channel US band and other things being equal, signals will be transmitted and heard the farthest. Since less standardization exists in Europe, CB there is more associated with hobbyists than with truckers.\n\nLegal (short‑range) use of CB radio is sometimes impeded by users of illegal high‑power transmitters, which can be heard hundreds of miles away. The other problem with short‑range CB use is propagation; during long‑range \"skip\" conditions local signals are inaudible due to reception of multiple distant signals.\n\nIn the United States, the number of users and law enforcement financing by the Federal Communications Commission mean that only the worst offenders are sanctioned, which makes legitimate operation on the citizens band unreliable. Most offenders are not caught for interfering with other CB users; often, their self‑modified equipment generates harmonics and spurs which cause interference to services outside the citizens band and to consumer equipment.\n\nThe maximum legal CB power output level in the U.S. is 4 watts for AM (un-modulated carrier; modulation can be four times the carrier power, or 16 watts PEP) and 12 watts for SSB, as measured at the transmitter antenna connection. However, external linear amplifiers are often used illegally.\n\nDuring the 1970s the FCC banned the sale of linear amplifiers capable of operation from 24 to 35 MHz to discourage their use on the CB band, although the use of high‑power amplifiers continued. Late in 2006, the FCC amended the regulation to exclude only 26 to 28 MHz to facilitate amateur 10-meter operation. Lax enforcement enables manufacturers of illegal linear amplifiers to openly advertise their products; many CB dealers include these amplifiers in their catalogs. Due to their rampant, unchecked use of linear amplifiers, American CB Radio operators are often referred to as \"Alligators\", by operators in other countries. (Suggesting American operators are \"All Mouth and No Ears\".) Attempts by law-abiding CB users to increase regulatory oversight have been ineffective.\n\nAt the beginning of the CB radio service, transmitters and receivers used vacuum tubes; solid-state transmitters were not widely available until 1965, after the introduction of RF-power transistors. Walkie-talkie hand-held units became affordable with the use of transistors. Early receivers did not cover all the channels of the service; channels were controlled by plug-in quartz crystals, with one of several operating frequencies selected by a panel control in more expensive units. Superheterodyne receivers (using one or two conversion stages) were the norm in good-quality equipment, although low-cost toy-type units used super-regenerative receivers. With the earliest sets two quartz crystals were needed for transmitting and receiving on each channel, which was costly. By the mid-1960s \"mixer\" circuits made frequency-synthesized radios possible, which reduced cost and allowed full coverage of all 23 channels with a smaller number of crystals (typically 14). The next improvement came during the mid-1970s; crystal synthesis was replaced by PLL technology using ICs, enabling 40-channel sets with only one crystal (10.240 MHz). Almost all were AM-only, although there were a few single sideband sets.\n\nMost CB radios sold in the United States have the following features:\n\nMicrophone choices include:\n\n27 MHz is a relatively long wavelength for mobile communications, and the choice of antenna has a considerable impact on the performance of a CB radio. A common mobile antenna is a quarter-wave vertical whip. This is roughly nine feet (2.7 m) tall; it is mounted low on the vehicle body, and often has a spring-and-ball mount to enhance its flexibility when scraping or striking overhead objects. Where a nine-foot whip is undesirable, shorter antennas include loading coils to make the antenna impedance the same as a physically longer antenna. The loading coil may be on the bottom, middle, or top of the antenna, while some antennas are wound in a continuously-loaded helix.\n\nMany truckers use two co-phased antennas, mounted on their outside mirrors. Such an array is intended to enhance performance to the front and back, while reducing it to the sides (a desirable pattern for long-haul truckers). However, the efficiency of such an arrangement is only an improvement over a single antenna when the co-phased antennas are separated by approximately eight feet or more, restricting this design to use mainly on tractor-trailers and some full-size pickups and SUVs. Some operators will use only one of the two antennas; this removes both the complexity and benefit of a true co-phased array, but gives a symmetrical cosmetic appearance preferred by some truck drivers.\n\nAnother mobile antenna is the continuously-loaded half-wave antenna. These do not require a ground plane to present a near-50-ohm load to the radio, and are often used on fiberglass vehicles such as snowmobiles or boats. They are also useful in base stations where circumstances preclude the use of a ground-plane antenna. Handheld CBs may use either a telescoping center-loaded whip or a continuously-loaded \"rubber ducky\" antenna.\n\nBase CB antennas may be vertical for omnidirectional coverage, or directional \"beam\" antennas may be used to direct communications to a particular region. Ground-plane kits exist as mounting bases for mobile whips, and have several wire terminals or hardwired ground radials attached. These kits are designed to have a mobile whip screwed on top (a full-length, quarter-wave steel whip is preferred) and mounted on a mast. The ground radials replace the vehicle body (which is the counterpoise for a mobile whip in a typical vehicle installation).\n\nAll frequencies in the HF spectrum (3–30 MHz) can be refracted by charged ions in the ionosphere. Refracting signals off the ionosphere is called skywave propagation, and the operator is said to be \"shooting skip\". CB operators have communicated across thousands of miles and sometimes around the world. Even low-power 27 MHz signals can sometimes propagate over long distances.\n\nThe ability of the ionosphere to bounce signals back to earth is caused by solar radiation, and the amount of ionization possible is related to the 11-year sunspot cycle. In times of high sunspot activity, the band can remain open to much of the world for long periods of time. During low sunspot activity it may be impossible to use skywave at all, except during periods of Sporadic-E propagation (from late spring through mid-summer). Skip contributes to noise on CB frequencies. In the United States, it is illegal to engage in (or attempt to engage in) CB communications with any station more than from an operator's location. This restriction exists to keep CB as a local (line-of-sight) radio service; however, in the United States the restriction is widely ignored. The legality of shooting skip is not an issue in most other countries . A recent FCC decision now allows the shooting of skip in the United States.\n\nOperation on frequencies above or below the citizens band (on the \"uppers\" or \"lowers\") is called \"freebanding\" or \"outbanding\". While frequencies just below the CB segment (or between the CB segment and the amateur radio 10-meter band) seem quiet and under-utilized, they are allocated to other radio services (including government agencies) and unauthorized operation on them is illegal. Furthermore, illegal transmitters and amplifiers may not meet good engineering practice for harmonic distortion or \"splatter\", which may disrupt other communications and make the unapproved equipment obvious to regulators. Freebanding is done with modified CB or amateur equipment, foreign CB radios which may offer different channels, or with radios intended for export. Legal operation in one country may be illegal in another; for example, in the UK until June 2014 only 80 FM channels were legal.\n\nUnlike amateur radios with continuous frequency tuning, CBs manufactured for export are channelized. Frequency selection resembles that of modified American CBs more than any foreign frequency plan. They typically have a knob and display that reads up to channel 40, but include an extra band selector that shifts all 40 channels above or below the band and a \"+10 kHz\" button to reach the model control \"A\" channels. These radios may have 6 or even 12 bands, establishing a set of quasi-CB channels on many unauthorized frequencies. The bands are typically lettered A through F, with the normal citizens band as D.\n\nFor example, a freebander with an export radio who wants to use 27.635 MHz would choose channel 19 (27.185 MHz) and then shift the radio up one band (+450 kHz). It requires arithmetic on the part of the operator to determine the actual frequency, although more expensive radios include a frequency counter or a frequency display—two different components, providing an identical result. Illegal operations may unintentionally end up on frequencies very much in use. For instance, channel 19 shifted two bands up is 28.085 MHz, which is in a Morse code/data-only part of the 10-meter ham band. Voice transmissions in a Morse code-only segment are easily detectable by authorities.\nAmateur Radio Service operators record, locate, and report frequency trespassing and intrusions of their government or ITU allocations by pirate transmissions or illegal operators to the FCC for enforcement action.\n\nMany freeband operators use amateur radios modified to transmit out of band, which is illegal in some countries. Older amateur radios may require component changes; for instance, the 1970s Yaesu FT-101 was modified for CB by replacing a set of crystals used to tune portions of the 10-meter band, although some variants of the FT-101 were sold with the US FCC channels standard and were capable of transmitting above and below the legal 40 channels by another 10 or more channels. On some newer radios, the modification may be as simple as disconnecting a jumper wire or a diode. Many types of amateur transceivers may be found on CB and freeband, ranging from full-coverage HF transceivers to simpler 10-meter mobile radios. In the United States, the FCC bans the importation and marketing of radios it deems easily modifiable for CB; it is illegal to transmit on CB frequencies with a ham radio except in emergencies where no other method of communication is available.\n\nA gray market trade in imported CB gear exists in many countries. In some instances, the sale or ownership of foreign-specification CB gear is not illegal but its use is. With the FCC's minimal enforcement of its CB rules, enthusiasts in the US use \"export radios\" or European frequency modulation (FM) CB gear to escape the crowded AM channels. American AM gear has also been exported to Europe.\n\n\"Export radios\" are sold in the United States as 10-meter Amateur Radio transceivers. Marketing, import and sale of such radios is illegal if they are distributed as anything other than Amateur Radio transceivers. It is also illegal to use these radios outside of the Amateur Radio bands by anyone in the US, since they are not type-certified for other radio services and usually exceed authorized power limits. The use of these radios within the Amateur Radio Service by a licensed Amateur Radio operator within his/her license privileges is legal, as long as all FCC regulations for Amateur Radio are followed. The term \"export radio\" is a misnomer, since it implies that they cannot be used in the country in which they are sold and hints that the radio is legal in another country. However, the typical \"export radio\" has a combination of features, frequency coverage and output power which make it illegal worldwide; in reality, there is no country to which these radios may be legally exported.\n\nA callbook is a directory of radio station call signs. Originally a bound book that resembled a telephone directory, it contains the name and addresses of radio stations in a given jurisdiction (country). \"Modern Electrics\" published the first callbook in the United States in 1909. Today, the primary purpose of a callbook is to allow radio operators to send a confirmation post card, called a QSL card to an operator with whom they have communicated via radio. Callbooks have evolved to include on-line databases that are accessible via the Internet to instantly obtain the address of another amateur radio operator and their QSL Managers. The most well known and used on-line QSL database for the 11-meter/freebander community is QRZ11.COM, designed after its \"big brother\" QRZ.com for amateur radio.\n\nDuring the 1970s and 1980s heyday of CB radio, many citizens band-themed magazines appeared on newsstands. Two magazines that dominated the time period were S9 CB Radio and CB Radio Magazine. S9's successor was \"Popular Communications\", which had the same editor under a different publisher beginning in 1982. It covered hobby radio as well as CB. The same publisher produced a magazine called RADIO! for RadioShack stores in the mid-1990s. In Australia, CB Action Magazine was produced monthly from mid-1977 and continuing publication through until the early 1990s. CB Action spawned several other popular publications, including a communications and scanning magazine and the hugely popular Amateur Radio Action magazine, produced over several decades and running to some 18 volumes.\n\nIn the early 2000s, \"National Communications Magazine\" added CB radio coverage to its coverage of scanner radios and to this day remains the only magazine covering CB radio in North America.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4688726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4688726", "title": "Clearfield Trust Co. v. United States", "text": "Clearfield Trust Co. v. United States\n\nClearfield Trust Co. v. United States, 318 U.S. 363 (1943), was a case in which the Supreme Court of the United States held that federal negotiable instruments were governed by federal law, and thus the federal court had the authority to fashion a common law rule.\n\nOn April 28, 1936, the Federal Reserve Bank of Philadelphia mailed a check for $24.20, drawn on the Treasurer of the United States, to Clair Barner. The check was Barner's paycheck from the Works Progress Administration (WPA). Barner never received the check, which was stolen by an unknown party. The thief forged Barner's signature and cashed the check at the J.C. Penney department store in Clearfield, Pennsylvania, where the thief assumed the identity of Mr. Barner. J.C. Penney then turned the check over to Clearfield Trust Co. as its collection agent. Clearfield Trust Co. collected the check from the Federal Reserve Bank, knowing nothing about the forgery.\n\nOn May 10, 1936, Barner informed his supervisors at the WPA that he had not received his paycheck. His complaint made its way up the chain of command, and on November 30, 1936, Barner signed an affidavit alleging that the endorsement of his name on the check was forged. Neither J.C. Penney Co. nor Clearfield Trust Co. had any notice of the forgery until January 12, 1937, when the U.S. government sent its first notice about it. The United States sent its initial request for reimbursement on August 31, 1937, and filed suit against Clearfield Trust Co. in the United States District Court for the Western District of Pennsylvania on November 16, 1939. The government based its cause of action on the express guaranty of prior endorsements by Clearfield Trust Co.\n\nThe District Court determined that the dispute should be governed by the state law of Pennsylvania. It then dismissed the government's complaint on grounds of laches, holding that because the United States unreasonably delayed in notifying Clearfield Trust Co. of the forgery, it was barred from recovery. The United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit reversed the dismissal.\n\nJustice Douglas, writing for a unanimous United States Supreme Court, first distinguished the case from \"Erie Railroad Co. v. Tompkins\", holding that because the U.S. government was exercising a constitutionally-permitted function in disbursing its own funds and paying its debts, the commercial paper it issues should be governed by federal law rather than state law. Thus, the Erie doctrine rule -- that a United States District Court must apply the law of the state in which it is sitting -- did not apply. In the absence of an applicable Act of Congress, a federal court had the right to fashion a governing common law rule by its own standards.\n\nWhile the Court's decision explicitly retained the option of applying state law in fashioning a federal common law rule, the Court chose instead to fashion its own rule based on prior decisions. Justice Douglas identified a major federal interest in permitting the Court to fashion its own rule: uniformity in dealing with the vast amount of negotiable instruments and commercial paper issued by the federal government. Douglas reasoned that if each transaction were subject to the application of a multiplicity of different state laws, confusion and uncertainty in the administration of federal programs would be the result.\n\nJustice Douglas chose to follow the rule set forth in \"United States v. National Exchange Bank of Providence\", , in which the U.S. Supreme Court held that the U.S. government, “\"as drawee of commercial paper stands in no different light than any other drawee\"” and could recover on a check as a drawee from a person who had cashed a pension check with a forged endorsement, despite the government's protracted delay in giving notice of the forgery. The \"National Exchange Bank\" case held the government to conventional business terms, but said nothing about whether lack of prompt notice was a defense for nonpayment of a check. The Court held that the Pennsylvania state law -- requiring prompt notice from the drawee -- presumed injury to the defendant by the mere fact of delay. In this case, not only did Clearfield Trust Co. fail to demonstrate that it had suffered a loss because of the delay in notice, it could still recover the amount of the check from J.C. Penney, because none of its employees detected the fraud. The court chastised both companies for their \"neglect and error\" in accepting the forged check, and suggested that they should only be permitted to shift the loss to the drawee only when he can demonstrate that the delay in notice caused him damage.\n\n"}
{"id": "5666238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5666238", "title": "Coleman v Power", "text": "Coleman v Power\n\nColeman v Power (2004) 220 CLR 1 is a High Court of Australia case that deals with the implied freedom of political communication found in the Australian Constitution.\n\nColeman was a law and politics student from Townsville. He started handing out flyers in a shopping centre alleging police corruption in the Queensland police force. He was asked to stop by Power, a police officer, but refused. Coleman was subsequently arrested for insulting language, but violently resisted arrest. He was charged with using \"insulting words\" under the \"Vagrancy Act\" as well as assaulting and obstructing a police officer.\n\nColeman argued he was not guilty of using insulting words because they were political communication and thus protected under the implied freedom of political communication. A magistrate found him guilty, but he then appealed. All subsequent appeals failed to some extent. He then appealed to the High Court.\n\nThe court held that his conviction under s7(1)(d) of the Vagrancy Act should be set aside but that the conviction for assaulting/obstructing a police officer should stand.\n\nGummow, Hayne and Kirby JJ held the impugned section of the VA to be valid, concluded that it would infringe the second limb of the Lange v Australian Broadcasting Corporation test to the extent that it applied to political communication and read it down so that it did not. What Coleman said was not insulting as intended to be outlawed by the Act, they reasoned. They accepted that communications alleging corruption of police were protected by the implied right to freedom of political communication. They also accepted that political communication could include insults. Further, they noted that insulting words were a well-known tradition in Australian politics from \"its earliest history\".\n\nMcHugh J also held that the impugned section infringed the second limb of the Lange v Australian Broadcasting Corporation test to the extent that it applied to political communication. Rather than read the section down, he declared it invalid altogether.\n\nThis meant that a 4-judge majority had ruled his conviction under the VA should be overturned. As the Act had been found valid by all except McHugh J, Coleman's convictions for assaulting/obstructing a police officer were not overturned.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14344821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14344821", "title": "Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting 2005", "text": "Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting 2005\n\nThe Commonwealth Heads of Government Meeting 2005 was the nineteenth Meeting of the Heads of Government of the Commonwealth of Nations. It was held in Valletta, Malta, between 25 November and 27 November 2005, and hosted by Prime Minister Lawrence Gonzi.\n\nMalta is the smallest country to have hosted a CHOGM, committing the country to a major undertaking. Nonetheless, the event passed smoothly, marked by the visit of both Queen Elizabeth II, Head of the Commonwealth, and the British aircraft carrier and Royal Navy flagship, HMS Ark Royal.\n\nThe Commonwealth Ministerial Action Group (CMAG) put much emphasis on the position held by Pakistani President Pervez Musharraf, and overcame opposition from Pakistan to declare that his holding the two positions of President and Chief of Army Staff were \"incompatible with the basic principles of democracy and the spirit of the Harare Commonwealth principles\" and that \"until the two offices are separated, the process of democratization will not be irreversible\".\n\nOf note to commentators and the media was the non-discussion of Uganda, where opposition leader Kizza Besigye was arrested days before the CHOGM, and two months before the country's first multiparty elections since Yoweri Museveni took power in 1986. Uganda's capital, Kampala, had been arranged to host the 2007 CHOGM, and the Commonwealth leaders were keenly aware that to hold the CHOGM in a country that was deemed undemocratic would reflect badly on the Commonwealth Secretariat and undermine the Commonwealth's commitment to human rights and good governance.\n\nCMAG membership rotated once again, with Malaysia, Papua New Guinea, Saint Lucia, and the United Kingdom joining it, as the Bahamas, India, Samoa, and Nigeria left.\n\n"}
{"id": "47267688", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47267688", "title": "Conflict Armament Research", "text": "Conflict Armament Research\n\nConflict Armament Research (CAR) is a UK-based investigative organization that tracks the supply of conventional weapons, ammunition, and related military materiel (such as IEDs) into conflict-affected areas. Established in 2011, CAR specialises in working with governments to find out how weapons end up in war zones, and in the hands of terrorists and insurgent groups.\n\nThe group maintains the iTrace Global Weapon Reporting system, which is funded by the EU and the Government of Germany. CAR also provides technical support services including training and capacity-building.\n\nCAR has worked in 27 conflict-affected countries. Teams embed with national security and defence forces to document weapons at the point of use, and track their sources back through the chain of supply. Investigators photograph all markings and distinguishing characteristics, GPS-record all recovery sites and use in-field interviews with local stakeholders to build a case for each item documented. CAR does not rely on photographs sourced from social media.\n\nAll verified data is uploaded to CAR's iTrace system. Data is used to map the global chain of supply of arms, from the place of manufacture, to the point of capture or recovery.\n\niTrace is a project funded by the EU and the Government of Germany. The iTrace system maps weapons data collected by the organization's field investigative teams. The database is \"the world's largest public repository of diverted conventional weapons.\" iTrace is designed to help national authorities to identify points and risks of diversion, and to generate map weapon flows.\n\nCAR provides technical, policy, and support services to governments, international, regional and non-governmental organizations. These services include: policy support for weapon marking, identification, and record-keeping; IED and UXO contamination mapping; guidance and training on arms management; and analytical input to international arms control processes such as the Arms Trade Treaty (ATT) and the UN Programme of Action on Small Arms and Light Weapons (PoA).\n\nIn December 2017, CAR published a report documenting more than 40,000 items recovered from Islamic State (IS) forces between 2014 and 2017. The group reported that the majority of arms and ammunition were originally made in China and Russia, with almost a third of recovered weapons having first been produced by EU member states that were former Warsaw Pact countries.\n\nSome of these items had been re-exported by the US and Saudi Arabia to Syrian opposition groups before ending up in IS hands. CAR found that one Bulgarian-made anti-tank missile sold to the US Army made its way to IS forces in just 59 days.\n\nThe report also found that IS \"has been able to manufacture their own weapons and IEDs on an industrial scale thanks to a robust chain of supply.\" Turkish territory was the main, but not only, source of chemical explosive precursors for IEDs made by IS.\n\nCAR has also documented attempts by IS forces to develop weaponised drones, including a visit to a drone workshop in Ramadi, Iraq.\n\nCAR has provided information on how rebel groups in Yemen are getting weapons, including assault rifles and anti-tank guided weapons that were seized from dhows in February and March 2016 by Combined Maritime Forces, and that were \"suspected to have originated in Iran and were destined for Somalia and Yemen.\"\n\nIn December 2017, CAR reported on a remote-controlled 'drone boat' that had been reportedly seized in Yemen's coastal waters, providing a breakdown of how the water-borne IED had been constructed.\n\nReports from CAR show that despite active UN and EU arms embargoes, the Sudanese government has continued to import military and dual-use goods, some of which it has used in the conflict in South Kordofan and Blue Nile state.\n\nSudan has used foreign imports to build up its own domestic production capabilities. CAR says that since 2014 newly-manufactured Sudanese military materiel has been found in the hands of armed groups in South Sudan, Central African Republic, Cote d'Ivoire, Libya, Mali, and Niger.\n\nIn 2015 CAR reported that South Sudan's military has seized a stash of weapons that may have been supplied to a rebel group by Khartoum, which says it is not involved in the conflict.\n\nBased on field investigations carried out in eight countries during 2015 and early 2016, CAR found evidence of widespread circulation of illicit arms between armed groups in West Africa. The group documented how weapons looted or leaked from Libyan stockpiles after the civil war in 2011 had fuelled armed actors in Central African Republic, Chad, Cote d'Ivoire, Mali, Niger, and Syria.\n\nCAR also discovered a new set of weapons used in a series of attacks against hotels and security forces by Islamist armed groups in the Sahel that were \"unlike any previously documented in the sub-region.\" These matched with weapons found in Iraq and Syria, and suggest, according to CAR, possible links in supply sources between groups active in Iraq and Syria and in West Africa.\n\nJoint investigations by CAR and the Small Arms Survey in Mali following the Tuareg rebellion in 2012 identified a range of weapons, ammunition, and related materiel in the hands of various armed groups. Armed groups in Mali have received supplies sourced from Libya and captured from military stockpiles in Mali. Weapons confiscated from armed groups in northern Mali include 7.62 x 39 mm to 14.5 x 114 mm calibre ammunition, mortar rounds, rocket-propelled grenades, and air-to-ground rockets.\n\nThe group have reported on weapons and ammunition used in the Central African Republic on all sides. Stockpiles held by the Séléka included small arms produced in Sudan and China. Séléka forces had used Belgian, Czech, and UK ammunition manufactured in 2007–10, German military trucks, and 2011-manufactured Chinese RPG rounds. Anti-balaka militias had used 12-gauge shotgun shells manufactured in Spain, Italy and Cameroon. Some of these arms appeared to have been diverted from their original intended users. Chinese-manufactured grenades, widely held by Séléka and anti-balaka forces, and common among armed civilians, appear to have been intended to be shipped to Nepal. The report also found that Chinese made Type 82-2 hand grenades can be bought for under US $1, making them cheaper than a bottle of Coca-Cola.\n\n• Weapons of the Islamic State (December 2017)\n\n• Sudanese stockpiles and regional weapon diversion (May 2017)\n\n• Investigating cross-border weapon transfers in the Sahel (November 2016)\n\n• Tracing the supply of components used in Islamic State IEDs (February 2016)\n\n• Non-state armed groups in the Central African Republic (January 2015)\n\n• Rebel forces in northern Mali (April 2013)\n\n• Distribution of Iranian ammunition in Africa (December 2012)\n\n• New Sudanese weapons in Blue Nile state (April 2017)\n\n• Standardisation and quality control in Islamic State’s military production (December 2016)\n\n• Maritime interdictions of weapon supplies to Somalia and Yemen (November 2016)\n\n• Weapons and ammunition airdropped to SPLA-iO forces in South Sudan (June 2015)\n\n• Islamic State weapons in Kobane (April 2015)\n\n• Islamic State ammunition in Iraq and Syria (October 2014)\n\n• Islamic State weapons in Iraq and Syria (September 2014)\n\n• Warsaw Pact-calibre ammunition quantity tables\n\n• Russian MANPADs technology\n\n• Warsaw Pact-calibre ammunition box marking\n\n• Identifying marks on Kalashnikov-pattern weapons\n\n• Anatomy of a ‘drone boat’ (December 2017)\n\n• Islamic State’s multi-role IEDs (April 2017)\n\n• Iranian technology transfers to Yemen (March 2017)\n\n• Islamic State’s weaponised drones\n\n• Inside Islamic State’s improvised weapon factories in Fallujah\n\n• Turkish fertilisers used in Islamic State IEDs in Iraq\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4526286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4526286", "title": "David Bravo Bueno", "text": "David Bravo Bueno\n\nDavid Bravo Bueno (born February 20, 1978) is a Spanish lawyer specialized in intellectual property rights.\nHe is well known for his strong defense of the right to make a private copy of copyrighted works, as it is explicitly allowed by the Spanish legislation. He is often requested to participate in TV debates about so-called piracy and p2p file sharing.\n\nBravo argues that downloading files is undoubtedly legal and uploading, although more controversial, is surely not a crime, within the current Spanish legislation. His views are grounded mainly on the Intellectual Propierty Law (1996), Article 31, 2nd Chapter, \"Reproduction without authorization\" and the Penal Code, Article 270.\nThe SGAE (General Association of Authors and Editors) strongly disagrees with Bravo and the Spanish government often makes campaigns backing SGAE's views on the matter.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "268508", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268508", "title": "Debt consolidation", "text": "Debt consolidation\n\nDebt consolidation is a form of debt refinancing that entails taking out one loan to pay off many others. This commonly refers to a personal finance process of individuals addressing high consumer debt but occasionally refers to a country's fiscal approach to corporate debt or Government debt. The process can secure a lower overall interest rate to the entire debt load and provide the convenience of servicing only one loan.\n\nDebt generally refers to money owed by one party, the debtor, to a second party, the creditor. It is generally subject to repayments of principal and interest. Interest is the fee charged by the creditor to the debtor, generally calculated as a percentage of the principal sum per year known as an interest rate and generally paid periodically at intervals, such as monthly. Debt can be secured with collateral or unsecured. \n\nAlthough there is variation from country to country and even in regions within country, consumer debt is primarily made up of home loans, credit card debt and car loans. Household debt is the consumer debt of the adults in the household plus the mortgage, if applicable. In many countries, especially the United States and the United Kingdom, student loans can be a significant portion of debt but are usually regulated differently than other debt. The overall debt can reach the point where a debtor is in danger of bankruptcy, insolvency, or other fiscal emergency. Options available to overburdened debtors include credit counseling and personal bankruptcy. \n\nOther consumer options include:\nSometimes the solution includes some of each of these tactics.\nThe bulk of the consumer debt, especially that with a high interest, is repaid by a new loan. Most debt consolidation loans are offered from lending institutions and secured as a second mortgage or home equity line of credit. These require the individual to put up a home as collateral and the loan to be less than the equity available. \n\nThe overall lower interest rate is an advantage of the debt consolidation loan offers consumers. Lenders have fixed costs to process payments and repayment can spread out over a larger period. However, such consolidation loans have costs: fees, interest, and \"points\" where one point equals to one percent of the amount borrowed. In some countries, these loans may provide certain tax advantages. Because they are secured, a lender can attempt to seize property if the borrower goes into default. \n\nPersonal loans comprise another form of debt consolidation loan. Individuals can issue debtors a personal loan that satisfies the outstanding debt and creates a new one on their own terms. These loans, often unsecured, are based on the personal relationship rather than collateral.\n\nIn the United States, federal student loans are consolidated somewhat differently from in the UK, as federal student loans are guaranteed by the U.S. government.\n\nIn a federal student loan consolidation, existing loans are purchased by the Department of Education. Upon consolidation, a fixed interest rate is set based on the then-current interest rate. Reconsolidating does not change that rate. If the student combines loans of different types and rates into one new consolidation loan, a weighted average calculation will establish the appropriate rate based on the then-current interest rates of the different loans being consolidated together.\n\nFederal student loan consolidation is often referred to as refinancing, which is incorrect because the loan rates are not changed, merely locked in. Unlike private sector debt consolidation, student loan consolidation does not incur any fees for the borrower; private companies make money on student loan consolidation by reaping subsidies from the federal government.\n\nIn the UK student loan entitlements are guaranteed, and are recovered using a means-tested system from the student's future income. Student loans in the UK can not be included in bankruptcy, but do not affect a person's credit rating because the repayments are deducted from salary at source by employers, similar to Income Tax and National Insurance contributions. Many students, however, struggle with commercial debt well after their courses have finished.\n\nAustralia’s student loan system once had 35 years to pay back loans, but it’s currently 15. Those seriously delinquent on student loans face arrest at the border. \n\nIn Japan, an increasing number of student loans are in arrears. This has caused the Asian nation to take harsher steps when it comes to lending determinations. In an effort to prevent future defaults, Japan has begun associating loan approvals to academic performance.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50982990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50982990", "title": "Directive on the Protection of Trade Secrets", "text": "Directive on the Protection of Trade Secrets\n\nThe Directive on the protection of undisclosed know-how and business information (trade secrets) against their unlawful acquisition, use and disclosure is a Directive of the European Parliament and the European Council which was adopted by the European Council on 27 May 2016 following an agreement reached with the European Parliament on 15 December 2015 and amendment by the Parliament on 14 March 2016.\n\nThe aim of the directive is \"to harmonise the existing diverging national laws [within the EU] on the protection against the misappropriation of trade secrets, so that companies can exploit and share their trade secrets with privileged business partners across the Internal Market, turning their innovative ideas into growth and jobs\".\n\nEU member states are required to \"bring into force the laws, regulations and administrative provisions necessary to comply with this Directive\" within two years i.e. by May 2018. Trade secret holders will be entitled to apply for remedies following cases of illegal appropriation of documents, objects, materials, substances or electronic files containing the trade secret or from which the trade secret can be deduced.\n\nThe text of the directive is available at https://eur-lex.europa.eu/eli/dir/2016/943/oj\n"}
{"id": "9458886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9458886", "title": "Electoral Act 1856", "text": "Electoral Act 1856\n\nThe Electoral Act 1856 was an Act of the Victorian Legislative Council which provided for the election of members of the first Parliament of Victoria later that year. Besides providing for the division of the colony into provinces and districts for the election of members of Parliament, for the creation of an electoral roll and for other matters, the Act also introduced voting by secret ballot in the colony of Victoria. It provided for a government–supplied ballot paper containing each candidates' names. The elector was required to cross out the name of those candidates he (and it was only he) did not wish to vote for, fold the ballot paper in a way that the vote could not be seen and place the ballot paper in a ballot box in view of the polling officers.\n\nThe Act was passed by a one-vote majority in the outgoing Legislative Council on 13 March 1856, and received assent from the Governor of Victoria on 19 March of the same year, in time for the election of the new Parliament of Victoria later that year. The innovation of the secret ballot was pioneered in Victoria by the former mayor of Melbourne, William Nicholson. \n\nVictoria was the fourth jurisdiction in the world to enacted a law for a secret ballot. France adopted a secret ballot law in 1795. The movement for a secret ballot in South Australia was led by pioneer and advocate South Australian Electoral Commissioner William Boothby. Tasmania adopted a secret ballot law on 7 February 1856. South Australia enacted a similar law two weeks after the Victorian law, on 2 April 1856. The South Australian system in 1858 required an elector to place an X against the name of his preferred candidate instead of crossing out unwanted names and for the ballot paper to show 'no other matter or thing' apart from the names of candidates and on the back the returning officer's initials. The other Australian colonies followed the SA example: New South Wales (1858), Queensland (1859), and Western Australia (1877). New Zealand implemented secret voting in 1870. \n\nWhen the secret ballot was adopted in the United States, it was called 'the Australian ballot'.\n\n"}
{"id": "23619268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23619268", "title": "False accusation of rape", "text": "False accusation of rape\n\nA false accusation of rape is the reporting of a rape where no rape has occurred. It is difficult to assess the true prevalence of false rape allegations, but it is generally agreed that, for about 2% to 10% of rape allegations, a thorough investigation establishes that no crime was committed or attempted.\n\nCauses of false accusations of rape may fall into two categories: false memories (accidental self-deception) or lies (attempted deliberate deception of others).\n\nThere are a number of ways in which an alleged victim can accidentally come to believe that they have been raped by the person(s) they accuse. These include, but are not limited to:\n\nThere are a number of motivations an accuser may have to falsely claim they have been raped. According to Sandra Newman, these can be put into four categories:\n\nIt is extremely difficult to assess the prevalence of false accusations. All jurisdictions have a distinct classification of false accusation, resulting in these cases being combined with other types of cases (e.g. where the accuser did not physically resist the suspect or sustain injuries) under headings such as \"unfounded\" or \"unproved\". There are many reasons other than falsity that can result in a rape case being closed as unfounded or unproven. DiCanio (1993) states that while researchers and prosecutors do not agree on the exact percentage of cases in which there was sufficient evidence to conclude that allegations were false, they generally agree on a range of 2% to 10%. Due to varying definitions of a \"false accusation\", the true percentage remains unknown. \n\nAnother complicating factor is that data regarding false allegations generally do not come from studies designed to estimate the prevalence of false allegations; rather, they come from reviews of data regarding investigations and prosecutions within criminal justice systems. The goal of such investigations is to determine whether or not there is sufficient evidence to prosecute, not to evaluate the cases for which there is not sufficient evidence to prosecute and classify such cases as \"false\" or \"true\".\n\nClaire E. Ferguson and John M. Malouff conducted a meta-analysis of confirmed false rape reporting rates in the \"Archives of Sexual Behavior\" in 2016, and found that 5.2% of cases were confirmed false rape reports. The authors note that the \"total false reporting rate... would be greater than the 5% rate found here\" if possible false allegations were also included alongside confirmed allegations. \n\nResearchers Cassia Spohn, Clair White and Katharine Tellis examined data provided by the Los Angeles Police Department in the US from 2008, and found that false reports among rape cases was about 4.5 percent.\n\nA report by the Crown Prosecution Service (CPS) examined rape allegations in England and Wales over a 17-month period between January 2011 and May 2012. It showed that in 35 cases authorities prosecuted a person for making a false allegation, while they brought 5,651 prosecutions for rape. Keir Starmer, the head of the CPS, said that the \"mere fact that someone did not pursue a complaint or retracted it, is not of itself evidence that it was false\" and that it is a \"misplaced belief\" that false accusations of rape are commonplace. He added that the report also showed that a significant number of false allegations of rape (and domestic violence) \"involved young, often vulnerable people. About half of the cases involved people aged 21 years old and under, and some involved people with mental health difficulties. In some cases, the person alleged to have made the false report had undoubtedly been the victim of some kind of offence, even if not the one that he or she had reported.\"\n\nDavid Lisak's study, published in 2010 in \"Violence Against Women\", classified as demonstrably false 8 out of the 136 (5.9%) reported rapes at an American university over a ten-year period.\n\nIn a study of the first 100 rape reports after April 1, 2004 in Scotland, researchers found that about 4% of reports were designated by police to be false. In a separate report by the same researchers that year which studied primary data from several countries in Europe, including Austria, Belgium, England, France, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Ireland, Portugal, Scotland, Sweden, and Wales found the average proportion of reports designated by police as false was about 4%, and wasn't higher than 9% in any country they studied. They noted that cases where the police doubt the allegation may be \"hidden in the ‘no evidence of sexual assault’ category\" instead of designated false category and suggested more detailed research into explicating both categories.\n\nThe UK Ministry of Justice in their Research Series published a report describing the analysis of 1,149 case files of violent crimes recorded April 2008 to March 2009. They noted that 12% of rape allegations fell into a broader definition of false accusations (victim was intoxicated, there was a delay in reporting the crime, victim retracted the complaint after the fact, or no evidence of bodily harm was recorded). Approximately 3% of the false rape allegations were identified as malicious (determined to be intentionally false). When it came to cases with grievous bodily harm (GBH), even the broader definition (no evidence, delayed report, retraction, or intoxicated victim) accounted for only 2% of crimes.\n\nA 2006 paper by Philip N.S. Rumney in the \"Cambridge Law Journal\" offers a review of studies of false reporting in the US, New Zealand and the UK. Rumney draws two conclusions from his review of literature. First, the police continue to misapply the \"no-crime\" or \"unfounding\" criteria. Studies by Kelly \"et al\". (2005), Lea \"et al\". (2003), HMCPSI/HMIC (2002), Harris and Grace (1999), Smith (1989), and others found that police decisions to no-crime were frequently dubious and based entirely on the officer's personal judgment. Rumney notes that some officers seem to \"have fixed views and expectations about how genuine rape victims should react to their victimization\". He adds that \"qualitative research also suggests that some officers continue to exhibit an unjustified scepticism of rape complainants, while others interpret such things as lack of evidence or complaint withdrawal as 'proof' of a false allegation\".\n\nRumney's second conclusion is that it is impossible to \"discern with any degree of certainty the actual rate of false allegations\" because many of the studies of false allegations have adopted unreliable or untested research methodologies. He argues, for instance, that in addition to their small sample size, the studies by Maclean (1979) and Stewart (1981) used questionable criteria to judge an allegation to be false. MacLean deemed reports \"false\" if, for instance, the victim did not appear \"dishevelled\" and Stewart, in one instance, considered a case disproved, stating that \"it was totally impossible to have removed her extremely tight undergarments from her extremely large body against her will\".\n\nAmerican psychologist David Lisak criticized the collection of studies used in Rumney's 2006 paper, which estimated the rate of false allegations as between 1.5–90%. Lisak stated that many of the stats are misleading upon investigation and \"when the sources of these estimates are examined carefully it is clear that only a fraction of the reports represent credible studies and that these credible studies indicate far less variability in false reporting rates.\" Lisak points out that even in the original paper Rumney concludes that many of the studies have inadequacies and should not be used to estimate the frequency of false rape reports.\n\nA study of 850 rape accusations made to police in Victoria, Australia between 2000 and 2003 found that 2.1% were ultimately classified by police as false, with the complainants then charged or threatened with charges for filing a false police report.\n\nThe Home Office on UK rape crime in 2005 released a study that followed 2,643 sexual assault cases from initial reporting of a rape through to legal prosecutions. The study was based on 2,643 sexual assault cases, of these, police classified 8% as false reports based on police judgement, and the rate was 2.5% when determined using official criteria for false reports. The researchers concluded that \"one cannot take all police designations at face value\" and that \"[t]here is an over-estimation of the scale of false allegations by both police officers and prosecutors.\"\n\nIn the US, FBI reports from 1995, 1996, and 1997 consistently put the number of \"unfounded\" forcible rape accusations around 8%. In contrast, the average rate of unfounded reports for all \"index crimes\" (murder, aggravated assault, forcible rape, robbery, arson, burglary, larceny-theft, and motor vehicle theft) tracked by the FBI is 2%. This estimate, however, does not appear in subsequent FBI reports. This estimate was criticised by academic Bruce Gross as almost meaningless as many jurisdictions from which FBI collects data use different definition of \"unfounded\", which, he wrote, includes cases where the victim did not physically fight off the suspect or the suspect did not use a weapon, and cases where the victim had a prior relationship to the suspect.\n\nIn 1994, Eugene J. Kanin of Purdue University investigated the incidences of false rape allegations made to the police in one small urban community in the Midwest United States (population 70,000) between 1978 and 1987. He states that unlike in many larger jurisdictions, this police department had the resources to \"seriously record and pursue to closure all rape complaints, regardless of their merits\". He further states each investigation \"always involves a serious offer to polygraph the complainants and the suspects\" and \"the complainant must admit that no rape had occurred. She is the sole agent who can say that the rape charge is false\".\n\nThe number of false rape allegations in the studied period was 45; this was 41% of the 109 total complaints filed in this period. The researchers verified, whenever possible, for all of the complainants who recanted their allegations, that their new account of the events matched the accused's version of events.\n\nAfter reviewing the police files, Kanin categorized the false accusations into three broad motivations: alibis, revenge, and attention-seeking. These motivations were assigned prevalence of roughly 50%, 30%, and 20% respectively. This categorization was supported by the details of complainant recantations and other documentation of their cases.\n\nKanin also investigated the combined police records of two large Midwestern universities over a three-year period (1986–1988), and found that 50% of the reported forcible rapes were determined to be false accusations (32 of the total 64). No polygraphs were used, the investigations were the sole responsibility of a ranking female officer, and a rape charge was only counted as false under complainant recantation. In this sample, the motivations mentioned above were roughly evenly split between alibi and revenge, with only one case characterized as attention-seeking.\n\nCritics of Kanin's report include David Lisak, an associate professor of psychology and director of the Men's Sexual Trauma Research Project at the University of Massachusetts Boston. He states, \"Kanin's 1994 article on false allegations is a provocative opinion piece, but it is not a scientific study of the issue of false reporting of rape. It certainly should never be used to assert a scientific foundation for the frequency of false allegations.\"\n\nAccording to Lisak, Kanin's study lacked any kind of systematic methodology and did not independently define a false report, instead recording as false any report which the police department classified as false, whereas Kanin stated that the women filing the false allegations of rape had recanted. The department classified reports as false which the complainant later said were false, but Lisak points out that Kanin's study did not scrutinize the police's processes or employ independent checkers to protect results from bias.\n\nKanin, Lisak writes, took his data from a police department which used investigation procedures (polygraphs) that are discouraged by the U.S. Justice Department and denounced by the International Association of Chiefs of Police. These procedures include the \"serious offer\", in this department, of polygraph testing of complainants, which is viewed as a tactic of intimidation that leads victims to avoid the justice process and which, Lisak says, is \"based on the misperception that a significant percentage of sexual assault reports are false\". The police department's \"biases...were then echoed in Kanin's unchallenged reporting of their findings\". While also noting some of the same criticisms of Kanin, Rumney's 2006 metastudy of US and UK false rape allegation studies adds that \"if, indeed, officers did abide by this policy then the 41% could, in fact, be an underestimate given the restrictive definition of false complaints offered by the police in this study. The reliability of these findings may be somewhat bolstered by the fact that the police appeared to record the details and circumstances of the fabrications.\"\n\nBruce Gross writes in the \"Forensic Examiner\" that Kanin's study is an example of the limitations of existing studies on false rape accusations. \"Small sample sizes and non-representative samples preclude generalizability.\" Philip N.S. Rumney questions the reliability of Kanin's study stating that it \"must be approached with caution\". He argues that the study's most significant problem is Kanin's assumption \"that police officers abided by departmental policy in only labeling as false those cases where the complainant admitted to fabrication. He does not consider that actual police practice, as other studies have shown, might have departed from guidelines.\"\n\nSurveys of police and prosecutors find that many in law enforcement consistently over-estimate the prevalence of false accusations, leading to what some researchers have characterized as a culture of skepticism toward accusers in sexual assault cases. \n\nThere are studies about the extent which the media affects the public perception of false rape accusations. Incorrect assumptions about false rape allegations increases the likelihood that a person who reports rape will be blamed or disbelieved. Megan Sacks in \"Deviant Behavior\" says that the media perpetuates rape myths when reporting on sexual assaults. Rapes that are reported in news media are typically sensational and do not often correspond with the reality of most rapes, for example, the majority of sexual assaults are committed by someone the person knows as opposed to a stranger. Sacks says, the media also normalizes sexual violence in general, often blames the person who reported the assault, and commonly expresses sympathy for the alleged perpetrators instead of the victim. Laura Niemi, a postdoctoral psychology associate at Harvard University, speculated that mythologizing of rape could contribute to the idea that \"no normal person\" could rape. As a result, the people commonly had a difficult time believing someone they know or like is a rapist, and this could contribute to the idea that the person who reported the rape is at fault.\n\nIn the \"European Journal of Psychology Applied to Legal Context\", André De Zutter and a team described how false rape allegations often resemble stories of rape portrayed in the media, which are not typical of most true incidents of rape. False stories tend to be quick and straightforward with few details or complex interactions, and usually involve only vaginal intercourse. Some behaviors associated with lying by juries is actually typical of true rapes, including kissing or a previous relationship with the rapist. True rape reports often include many details rarely seen in media or false rape reports, for example pseudo-intimate actions, detailed verbal interactions and an otherwise wide range of behaviors besides simply face-to-face vaginal intercourse.\n\nPam Vogel of Media Matters for America in the Spring 2017 issue of AMASS released the results of a study which found that ESPN networks discussed sexual assault or domestic violence about 30 hours and 40 minutes of airtime out of more than 8,600 total hours in the first quarter of 2017. The speakers were 74% male, and about 1/3 of that time was spent discussing an ESPN documentary about false rape accusations against a lacrosse team at Duke University. Vogel concludes that the high focus on false allegations could contribute to the myth that rapes are rare and false reports are common, when the facts do not back up those perceptions.\n\nIndividuals suspected of making a false accusation of rape may be charged with the civil crime of \"wasting police time\" or the criminal charge of \"Perverting the Course of Justice\".\n\nOver a five-year period ending in 2014, a total of 109 women were prosecuted for crimes related to making false accusations of rape. The report did not indicate the verdicts following prosecution. Another report identified 121 charging decisions involving allegations of false accusations of rape and an additional 11 false allegations of both domestic violence and rape between January 2011 and May 2012 and found of these cases, 35 were prosecuted based upon false accusations of rape. A further 3 were prosecuted based upon charges of false accusations of both rape and domestic abuse. The report did not indicate the verdicts following prosecution.\n\nIn 1895, Ida B. Wells published \"The Red Record\" which documented lynchings from 1892 and their causes. She compiled statistics of 241 lynchings which showed that rape and murder were the two most common reasons used to justify lynchings. Wells found little evidence that victims were lynched because they had committed rape or some other offense. Instead she found that African American businesses were competing with white-owned businesses and in some cases African American men had consensual sexual relationships with white women and were lynched after the relationships were discovered by other people. Subsequent analyses have confirmed Wells' argument that economic competition led to lynchings and found that lynchings increased during difficult economic times. \n\nIn Louisiana between 1889 and 1896 rape was the second most common reason used to justify a lynching and a survey done in the 1930's of a small town in Mississippi, 60 percent of respondents stated that lynching was an appropriate response to a case of rape and that it was necessary to maintain law and order and protect white women.\n\nThere are several notable cases of violence after an accusation of rape during the Jim Crow era. \n\nIn the Tulsa race riot of 1921 mobs killed 36 people and hospitalized an additional 800 people. The riot began over an allegation that a black man had attempted to rape a white 17 year-old elevator operator. \n\nThe Rosewood massacre of 1923 began after a white woman in nearby Sumner claimed she had been raped by a black man from Rosewood. An angry mob surrounded a house with black residents and a standoff ensued. The mob killed several people inside and two white people were killed outside. This attracted additional angry mobs who razed Rosewood. Black residents fled into the forest, escaped in cars, and on a train. At a minimum, eight black people and two white people were killed but it is possible that as many 150 black residents were killed.\n\nTwo white women accused the Scottsboro Boys, a group of nine African American boys and young men, of rape on a train in 1931. Eight of the boys were found guilty and the case was appealed to the Alabama Supreme Court and then twice to the United States Supreme Court. In Powell v. Alabama the Supreme Court reversed the Alabama Supreme Court decision because the Court found that the defendants had inadequate counsel. In Patterson v. Alabama the Supreme Court sent the case back to Alabama for retrial on the grounds that there were no black jurors in their trials, a violation of the Equal Protection Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment. Eight of the nine Scottsboro boys were ultimately found guilty and received long prison sentences.\n\nRacially charged allegations of rape continue to the present time. In the Central Park jogger case, one hispanic and four black teens were found guilty of raping a white woman in 1989. Their cases were vacated in 2002 and they received a $41 million settlement in 2014.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1096607", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1096607", "title": "Feminist legal theory", "text": "Feminist legal theory\n\nFeminist legal theory, also known as feminist jurisprudence, is based on the belief that the law has been fundamental in women's historical subordination. The project of feminist legal theory is twofold. First, feminist jurisprudence seeks to explain ways in which the law played a role in women's former subordinate status. Second, feminist legal theory is dedicated to changing women's status through a rework of the law and its approach to gender.\n\nThe term \"feminist jurisprudence\" was coined in the late 1970s by Ann Scales during the planning process for Celebration 25, a party and conference held in 1978 to celebrate the twenty-fifth anniversary of the first women graduating from Harvard Law School. The term was first published in 1978 in the first issue of the Harvard Women's Law Journal.\n\nIn 1984 Martha Fineman founded the Feminism and Legal Theory Project at the University of Wisconsin Law School to explore the relationships between feminist theory, practice, and law, which has been instrumental in the development of feminist legal theory.\n\nSome approaches to feminist jurisprudence are: \n\nEach model provides a distinct view of the legal mechanisms that contribute to women's subordination, and each offers a distinct method for changing legal approaches to gender.\n\nThe liberal equality model operates from within the liberal legal paradigm and generally embraces liberal values and the rights-based approach to law, though it takes issue with how the liberal framework has operated in practice. This model focuses on ensuring that women are afforded genuine equality including race, sexual orientation, and gender—as opposed to the nominal equality often given them in the traditional liberal framework—and seeks to achieve this either by way of a more thorough application of liberal values to women’s experiences or the revision of liberal categories to take gender into account. For example, when black women are only provided legal relief when the case is against her race or gender.\n\nThe difference model emphasizes the significance of gender discrimination and holds that this discrimination should not be obscured by the law, but should be taken into account by it. Only by taking into account differences can the law provide adequate remedies for women’s situation, which is in fact distinct from men’s. The difference model is in direct opposition to the sameness account which holds that women’s sameness with men should be emphasized. To the sameness feminist, employing women’s differences in an attempt to garner greater rights is ineffectual to that end and places emphasis on the very characteristics of women that have historically precluded them from achieving equality with men.\n\nThe dominance model rejects liberal feminism and views the legal system as a mechanism for the perpetuation of male dominance. It thus joins certain strands of critical legal theory, which also consider the potential for law to act as an instrument for domination. This theory focuses on how male dominate females, but it also talks about other groups being oppressed such as how legal aid is not often offered to the transgender population. Also, any white female would have good legal representation compared to minority groups.\n\nIn the account of dominance proposed by Catharine MacKinnon, sexuality is central to the dominance. MacKinnon argues that women's sexuality is socially constructed by male dominance and the sexual domination of women by men is a primary source of the general social subordination of women.\n\nFeminists from the postmodern camp have deconstructed the notions of objectivity and neutrality, claiming that every perspective is socially situated. Anti-essentialist and intersectionalist critiques of feminists have objected to the idea that there can be any universal women’s voice and have criticized feminists, as did Black feminism, for implicitly basing their work on the experiences of white, middle class, heterosexual women. The anti-essentialist and intersectionalist project has been to explore the ways in which race, class, sexual orientation, and other axes of subordination interplay with gender and to uncover the implicit, detrimental assumptions that have often been employed in feminist theory. This model is about dismantling white feminism and First wave feminist and about building on actual equality for all regardless or gender, race, sexual orientation, class, or disability.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31700249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31700249", "title": "Fleet Street Reports: Cases on Intellectual Property Law", "text": "Fleet Street Reports: Cases on Intellectual Property Law\n\nThe Fleet Street Reports: Cases in Intellectual Property Law () is a monthly journal published by Sweet & Maxwell since 1963 and covering intellectual property law. The language of publication is English.\n\n"}
{"id": "7833590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7833590", "title": "Forestry service (Russia)", "text": "Forestry service (Russia)\n\nThe forestry service was a form of alternative service offered to German speaking Mennonites in lieu of military service in Russia from 1881 to 1918. At its peak during World War I, 7,000 men served in forestry and agricultural pest control in Ukraine and South Russia. The program ended in the anarchy of the Russian Revolution.\n\nNonresistant Mennonites from West Prussia started settling in Russia in 1789, induced by land and special privileges including exemption from military service. By 1870 their population had grown to over 45,000 and was a significant economic force in south Russia. In 1870 the government announced that special privileges enjoyed by all colonists would end by 1880. Mennonite leaders sent delegations to Saint Petersburg for three successive years, but failed to retain the military exemption they so valued.\n\nWith loss of privileges looking likely, emigration to North America was promoted as a viable alternative. Realizing that 40,000 of Russia's most industrious farmers were preparing to leave for North America, the Russian government sent Eduard Totleben to the colonies in May 1874. Meeting with community leaders, he exaggerated the difficulties that would be encountered in North America and promised some form of alternative to military service. His intervention convinced the more liberal Mennonites to stay in Russia. After negotiations with the government in 1880 over acceptable types of alternative service, the forestry service program was deemed the best of the alternatives because it would have no military connection.\n\nThe forestry service began in 1881, after the end of special privileges granted to colonists in Russia. Men served in large groups for four years planting and caring for trees on the steppes of South Russia. Phylloxera units in Crimea focused on eradicating harmful insects from vineyards. Mennonite congregations provided for housing, feeding and all other necessities of the men. The Russian government provided supervision of the projects, tools needed for the job and paid each man 20 kopeks (a minimal amount) per work day.\n\nJust as Mennonite colonies were insulated from Russian society, the forestry camps were also sheltered from outside contact. Mennonite congregations provided a pastor and a superintendent to oversee each camp. The expense of running the camps, which included constructing barracks, was quite high. Voluntary contributions from Mennonite congregations, who had an incentive to provide an alternative to military service, were sufficient to run the program for nearly three decades.\n\nInitially about four hundred men served in this program annually. By 1913 up to a thousand were serving and during World War I, 7000. A similar program allowed Mennonite men to serve in hospital units and transport wounded from the battlefield to Moscow and Ekaterinoslav hospitals.\n\nThe forestry units functioned right up to the Russian Revolution of 1917. The camps became impossible to maintain in the chaos of South Russia and the assets, all church property, were sold and camps closed in 1918 with the Treaty of Brest-Litovsk. Alternatives to military service remained available, but under military control, until 1936.\n\nThe lessons learned with respect to providing an alternate to military service for conscientious objectors was a model for Civilian Public Service in the United States during World War II. Peace churches almost exclusively financed Civilian Public Service, while draftees served in forestry, agricultural and other types of units.\n\n"}
{"id": "26639767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26639767", "title": "Francesco Mario Pagano", "text": "Francesco Mario Pagano\n\nFrancesco Mario Pagano (8 December 1748 – 29 October 1799) was an Italian jurist, author, thinker, and the founder of the Neapolitan school of law. He is regarded as one of the most influential Enlightenment thinkers. A moderate reformist, he is seen as a forerunner of the Italian unification.\n\nHe was born in Brienza in the southern Province of Potenza. He studied at the University of Naples Federico II under Antonio Genovesi. At the age of twenty, he became special lecturer in moral philosophy there, at the same time practising law. He was friend of Gaetano Filangieri, entering the masonry with him, and was elected venerable master of the Neapolitan lodge \"La philantropia\". Pagano was one of the men who powerfully helped Italy in her social and scientific advancement and in the 1790s he had striven more than any other intellectual to give a political form to the 18th century reform tradition in southern Italy.\n\nHis work \"Saggi politici\" (1783–85) provided a philosophical history of the Kingdom of Naples, arguing against torture and capital punishment and advocating more benign penal codes. \"Considerazioni sul processo criminale\" (Considerations on the criminal trial, 1787), gave him international popularity and was much praised by \"Le Moniteur Universel\", the main newspaper of the revolutionary France.\n\nIn 1794 he defended Vincenzo Galiani, Vincenzo Vitaliani and Emanuele De Deo – three alleged conspirators against Ferdinand IV; after they were sentenced to death, Pagano was deprived of his professorship, arrested, imprisoned and expelled from the kingdom. After fleeing Naples in 1796, he returned in 1799 and drafted the constitution of the short-lived Neapolitan Republic. The document bore similarities to the French Constitution of 1793 but presented original traits such as the institution of the \"body of ephors\", an authority who would have overseen the maintenance of the law. It is considered the precursor of the modern constitutional court.\n\nAfter the fall of the republic, Pagano was arrested and imprisoned in the Castel Nuovo. He was executed by hanging at the \"Piazza del Mercato\" in Naples, along with other revolutionaries: Domenico Cirillo, Giorgio Pigliacelli and Ignazio Ciaia.\n\nPagano's other juridical or philosophical works included \"Progetto di Costituzione della Repubblica napoletana\", \"Sul processo criminale\", \"Esame politico dell’intera legislazione romana\", and \"Discorso sull’origine e natura della poesia\". He also translated works from Greek and Latin, and wrote six tragedies (\"Gerbino\", \"Agamennone\", \"Corradino\", \"Gli esuli tebani\", \"Prometeo\", and \"Teodosio\") and one comedy (\"Emilia\").\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12996531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12996531", "title": "Hate on Trial", "text": "Hate on Trial\n\nHate on Trial: The Case Against America's Most Dangerous Neo-Nazi is a book by Morris Dees and Steve Fiffer recounting the civil trial of Berhanu v. Metzger in which the Southern Poverty Law Center and Anti-Defamation League sued Tom Metzger and White Aryan Resistance.\n\nThe SPLC and ADL successfully argued that Meztger’s organization was civilly liable for the murder of Mulugeta Seraw receiving a $12.5 million judgement.\n\nAccording to the New York Times book review, \"the descriptions of the people involved are well wrought, and a moral quest fuels this book with driving power.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9744210", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9744210", "title": "League of peace", "text": "League of peace\n\nLeague of peace (Latin: foedus pacificum) is an expression coined by Immanuel Kant in his work \"\". The league of peace should be distinguished from a peace treaty (\"pactum pacis\") because a peace treaty prevents or terminates only one war, while the league of peace seeks to end all wars forever. This league does not hold any power of the state, but only exists for \"the maintenance and security of the freedom of the state and of other states in league with it, without there being any need for them to submit to civil laws and their compulsion, as men in a state of nature must submit.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "34532299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34532299", "title": "Legal issues surrounding music sampling", "text": "Legal issues surrounding music sampling\n\nMusic sampling is the subject of many legal disputes, chiefly in the realm of copyright law as it applies to musical compositions and sound recordings.\n\nEarly sampling artists simply used portions of other artists' recordings without permission, to make something new. As soon as music incorporating samples began to make significant money, some sampled artists, publishers, and record companies began to take legal action, claiming copyright infringement. Sometimes, after the threat or initiation of a lawsuit, such disputes are settled out of court, often with the sampling artist obtaining a license at considerable cost and making other concessions to appease the aggrieved party; other times, the sampling artist contests the infringement claims, such as by arguing in court that the copyright law does not cover their particular use of the work. The outcome of these court cases, primarily in the United States and the United Kingdom, have shaped common law, defining ways statutory law—which does not directly cover sampling—can be applied to sampling disputes.\n\nIn accordance to the United States constitution, the laws of copyright permit a number of rights to authors so that they may \"Promote the Progress of Science and Useful Arts.\" This principle brings to light the true reason for copyright law - to develop boundaries economically and legally where learning, science, and culture can progress. To protect peoples ideas and intellectual property.\n\nUsing tape as a means of sampling goes back to at least 1961, when James Tenney created Collage #1 (\"Blue Suede\") from samples of Elvis Presley's recording of \"Blue Suede Shoes.\" At the time, artists such as Brion Gysin and William S. Burroughs experimented by manipulating existing works such as radio broadcasts. Gysin's work tended to favor his permutation poems as the vehicle for cut-ups with spliced repetition of the same series of words rearranged in every conceivable pattern, frequently utilizing snippets of speeches or news broadcasts. Burroughs preferred a much more frantic and disorganized sound that would later spawn similar disjointed collage material from modern groups such as Negativland. Burroughs would record, for instance, a radio broadcast about military action, then dub parts of the broadcast likely at random often stuttering and distorting the original work far beyond comprehension.\n\nHowever, before then, the 1956 novelty hit single \"The Flying Saucer\", by Buchanan and Goodman, used segments of the original recordings of 18 different chart hits from 1955 to 1956, intertwined with spoken \"news\" commentary in the style of Orson Welles' \"War of the Worlds\" radio broadcast, to tell the story of a visit from a flying saucer. After the record was issued, an agreement was reached with music publishing houses for them to take a share of royalties from the records sold. Although his partnership with Buchanan soon ended, Dickie Goodman continued to make similar records through the 1960s and 1970s, one of his biggest hits being \"Mr. Jaws\" in 1975.\n\nSimon and Garfunkel sampled themselves in using a portion of their song \"The Sounds of Silence\" in \"Save the Life of My Child\" from their 1967 \"Bookends\" album. The Beatles also used the technique on a number of popular recordings in the mid to late '60s, including \"Yellow Submarine\", \"Revolution 9\" and \"I Am the Walrus.\" John Kongos is credited in the Guinness World Records as the first person to sample a song with his single, \"He's Gonna Step on You Again\". Timothy Leary sampled the Beatles and the Rolling Stones among others on his album You Can Be Anyone This Time Around in 1970.\n\nIn the early 1970s, DJ Kool Herc often looped hard funk break beats at block parties in The Bronx. However, sampling did not truly take off in popular music until the early eighties when pioneering hip hop producers, such as Grandmaster Flash, started to produce hip hop records using sampled breaks rather than live studio bands, which had until then been the norm.\n\nConventional wisdom would hold that the first popular rap single to feature sampling was \"Rapper's Delight\" by The Sugarhill Gang on the Sugar Hill Records label in 1979. However, instead of 'sampling' \"Good Times\" by Chic, Sugar Hill employed a group of session musicians known as Positive Force to record a cover of \"Good Times,\" which was then rapped over.\n\nEarliest examples of this practice include Grandmaster Flash's - \"The Adventures of Grandmaster Flash on the Wheels of Steel\" (1981) (which was made by recording vinyl manipulation on a pair of turntables and used the \"Apache\" break by the Incredible Bongo Band amongst other famous breaks), Brother D and the Collective Effort's \"How We Gonna Make the Black Nation Rise\" (1984) (which sampled the beat and bass line from Cheryl Lynn's 1978 hit \"Got to Be Real\") and UTFO's \"Roxanne, Roxanne\" (1984). Bill Holt's Dreamies (1974) is often cited as one of the earliest examples of sampling in popular music. Later examples of sampling include Big Audio Dynamite and their 1985 album \"This Is Big Audio Dynamite\" and the single E=MC² on which Mick Jones (formerly of The Clash) sampled snippets of audio from various films including works by Nicolas Roeg. The 1981 album by David Byrne and Brian Eno, \"My Life in the Bush of Ghosts\", used sampling extensively for the songs' vocals.\n\nOne of the first major legal cases regarding sampling was with UK dance act M}A}R}R|S' \"Pump Up the Volume\". As the record reached the UK top ten, producers Stock Aitken Waterman obtained an injunction against the record due to the unauthorized use of a sample from their hit single \"Roadblock\". The dispute was settled out of court, with the injunction being lifted in return for an undertaking that overseas releases would not contain the \"Roadblock\" sample, and the disc went on to top the UK singles chart. The sample in question had been so distorted as to be virtually unrecognizable, and SAW didn't realize their record had been used until they heard co-producer Dave Dorrell mention it in a radio interview.\n\nIn 1987, The JAMs released 1987 (What the Fuck Is Going On?). 1987 was produced using many unauthorized samples that plagiarized a wide range of musical works. They were ordered by the Mechanical-Copyright Protection Society to destroy all unsold copies of the album because of the uncleared samples, after a complaint from ABBA. In response, The JAMs disposed of many copies of 1987 in unorthodox, attention-grabbing ways. They also released a version titled \"1987 (The JAMs 45 Edits)\", stripped of all unauthorized samples to leave periods of protracted silence and so little audible content that it was formally classed as a 12-inch single.\n\n2 Live Crew, a hip-hop group familiar with controversy, was often in the spotlight for their obscene and sexually explicit lyrics. They sparked many debates about censorship in the music industry. However, it was their 1989 album \"As Clean as They Wanna Be\" (a re-tooling of \"As Nasty as They Wanna Be\") that began the prolonged legal debate over sampling. The album contained a track entitled \"Pretty Woman,\" based on the well-known Roy Orbison song Oh, Pretty Woman. 2 Live Crew's version sampled the guitar, bass, and drums from the original without permission. While the opening lines are the same, the two songs split ways immediately after.\n\nFor example:\n\nRoy Orbison's version – \"Pretty woman, walking down the street/Pretty woman, the kind I'd like to meet.\"\n2 Live Crew's version – \"Big hairy woman, all that hair ain't legit,/Cause you look like Cousin Itt.\"\n\nIn addition to this, while the music is identifiable as the Orbison song, there were changes implemented by the group. The new version contained interposed scraper notes, overlays of solos in different keys, and an altered drum beat.\n\nThe group was sued by the song's copyright owners Acuff-Rose. They claimed that 2 Live Crew's unauthorized use of the samples devalued the original, and was thus copyright infringement. The group claimed they were protected under fair use. The case of Campbell v. Acuff-Rose Music, Inc. came to the Supreme Court in 1994.\n\nIn reviewing the case, the Supreme Court didn't consider previous rulings in which any commercial use (and economic gain) was considered copyright infringement. Instead they re-evaluated the original frame of copyright as set forth in the Constitution. The opinion that resulted from \"Emerson v. Davies\" played a major role in the decision.\n\"[In] truth, in literature, in science and in art, there are, and can be, few, if any, things, which in an abstract sense, are strictly new and original throughout. Every book in literature, science and art, borrows, and must necessarily borrow, and use much which was well known and used before.\" \"Emerson v. Davies\", 8 F.Cas. 615, 619 (No. 4,436) (CCD Mass. 1845)\n\nPerhaps what played a larger role was the result from the \"Folsom v. Marsh\" case:\n\"look to the nature and objects of the selections made, the quantity and value of the materials used, and the degree in which the use may prejudice the sale, or diminish the profits, or supersede the objects, of the original work.\" \"Folsom v. Marsh\", 9 F.Cas. 342, 348 (No. 4,901) (CCD Mass. 1841)\n\nThe court ruled that any financial gain 2 Live Crew received from their version did not infringe upon Acuff-Rose because the two songs were targeted at very different audiences. 2 Live Crew's use of copyrighted material was protected under the fair use doctrine, as a parody, even though it was released commercially. While the appellate court had determined that the mere nature of the parody made it inherently unfair, the Supreme Court's ruling reversed this, with Justice David Souter writing that the lower court was wrong in determining parody alone to be sufficient for copyright infringement.\n\nRick James sued MC Hammer for infringement of copyright on the track \"U Can't Touch This\" (which sampled his 1981 song \"Super Freak\"), but the suit was settled out of court when Hammer agreed to credit James as co-composer, effectively cutting James in on the millions of dollars the record was earning. Hammer was also sued by Felton Pilate (who had worked with the successful vocal group Con Funk Shun) and by several of his former backers.\n\nIn 1992, Hammer also admitted in depositions and court documents to getting the idea for the song \"Here Comes The Hammer\" from a Christian recording artist in Dallas, Texas named Kevin Christian. Christian had filed a 16 million dollar lawsuit against Hammer for copyright infringement for his song entitled \"Oh-Oh, You Got The Shing\". This fact compounded with witness testimony from both Hammer's and Christian's entourages and other evidence including photos brought about a settlement with Capitol Records in 1994. The terms of the settlement remain sealed. Hammer settled with Christian the following year.\n\nIn the early 1990s, Vanilla Ice (Rob Van Winkle) sampled the bassline of the 1981 song \"Under Pressure\" by Queen and David Bowie for his 1990 single \"Ice Ice Baby\". Freddie Mercury and David Bowie did not receive credit or royalties for the sample. In a 1990 interview, Rob Van Winkle said the two melodies were slightly different because he had added an additional note. In later interviews, Van Winkle readily admitted he had sampled the song and claimed his 1990 statement was a joke; others, however, suggested he had been serious. Van Winkle later paid Mercury and Bowie, who have since been given songwriting credit for the sample.\n\nMore dramatically, Biz Markie's album \"I Need a Haircut\" was withdrawn in 1992 following a US federal court ruling, that his use of a sample from Gilbert O'Sullivan's \"Alone Again (Naturally)\" was willful infringement. This case had a powerful effect on the record industry, with record companies becoming very much concerned with the legalities of sampling, and demanding that artists make full declarations of all samples used in their work. On the other hand, the ruling also made it more attractive to artists and record labels to allow others to sample their work, knowing that they would be paid—often handsomely—for their contribution.\n\nA notable case in the early 1990s involved the dispute between the group Negativland and Casey Kasem over the band's use of un-aired vocal snippets from Kasem's radio program American Top 40 on the Negativland single \"U2\".\n\nSample clearance is when you can get permission from the song owners to use it as a sample. Once you have the permission to use it, you have the \"Clearance\" to use the song. To get a clearance you have to get permission from the song owner, and the recording owner.\n\nAnother notable case involved British dance music act Shut Up and Dance. Shut Up and Dance were a fairly successful Breakbeat Hardcore and rave scene outfit who, like their contemporaries, had liberally used samples in the creation of their music - without sample clearance from the individuals concerned. Although frowned upon, the British music industry usually turned a blind eye to this mainly underground scene, however, with rave at its commercial peak in the UK, Shut Up and Dance released the single \"Raving I'm Raving\", an upbeat breakbeat hardcore record which shot to #2 on the UK Singles Chart in May 1992. At the core of \"Raving\" were significant samples of Marc Cohn's hit single \"Walking in Memphis\" with some of the lyrical content changed and sung by Peter Bouncer. Shut Up and Dance hadn't sought clearance from Marc Cohn for the samples they used in \"Raving\" and Marc Cohn took legal action against Shut Up and Dance for breach of copyright. An out of court settlement was eventually reached between Shut Up and Dance and Cohn which saw \"Raving\" in its current form banned and the proceeds from the single given to charity. Shut Up and Dance were later commissioned to produce remixes for Cher's 1995 cover version of \"Walking In Memphis\" and were allowed by Cohn to use parts from the deleted \"Raving I'm Raving\" for this remix. Undeterred from earlier sampling issues they then went on to have relatively good success in the UK with a cover of Duran Duran's \"Save A Prayer\", entitled \"Save it til the mourning after\" reaching No. 25 in the UK Singles Chart in 1995.\n\nThe Shut Up and Dance case had major ramifications on the use of samples in the UK and most artists and record labels now seek clearance for samples they use. However, there are still cases which involve UK artists using uncleared samples. In October 1996, The Chemical Brothers released the single \"Setting Sun\" inspired by The Beatles' \"Tomorrow Never Knows\" and featuring Oasis' Noel Gallagher on vocals - a well-known admirer of The Beatles' work. Setting Sun hit #1 on the UK Singles Chart on its first week of release and the common consensus was The Chemical Brothers had sampled/looped significant parts of Tomorrow Never Knows in the creation of Setting Sun. The three remaining Beatles took legal action against the Chemical Brothers/Virgin Records for copyright infringement, however, a musicologist proved the Chemical Brothers had independently created Setting Sun - albeit in a similar vein to Tomorrow Never Knows.\n\nIn 1997, the Verve had a hit single with \"Bitter Sweet Symphony\", which samples a 1965 symphonic version of the Rolling Stones song \"The Last Time\". Rolling Stones manager Allen Klein sued, claiming they had used a longer-than-agreed sample, and the Verve lost all songwriting royalties and publishing rights. \"Rolling Stone\" said the case \"can either be viewed as a cautionary tale or one of the most unjust chapters in musical copyright history\".\n\nIn the middle of 2001, Mariah Carey released her first single from \"Glitter\", entitled \"Loverboy\", which featured a sample of \"Firecracker\" by Yellow Magic Orchestra. A month later, Jennifer Lopez released \"I'm Real\" with the same \"Firecracker\" sample. Carey quickly discarded it and replaced it with \"Candy\" by Cameo.\n\nIn 2001, Armen Boladian and his company Bridgeport Music Inc. filed over 500 copyright infringement suits against 800 artists using samples from George Clinton's catalogue.\n\nPublic Enemy recorded a track entitled \"Psycho of Greed\" (2002) for their album \"Revolverlution\" that contained a continuous looping sample from The Beatles' track \"Tomorrow Never Knows\". However, the clearance fee demanded by Capitol Records and the surviving Beatles was so high that the group decided to pull the track from the album.\n\nDanger Mouse with the release of \"The Grey Album\" in 2004, which is a remix of The Beatles' self-titled album and rapper Jay-Z's \"The Black Album\" has been embroiled in a similar situation with the record label EMI issuing cease and desist orders over uncleared Beatles samples.\n\nOn March 19, 2006, a judge ordered that sales of The Notorious B.I.G.'s album \"Ready to Die\" be halted because the title track sampled a 1972 song by the Ohio Players, \"Singing in the Morning\", without permission.\n\nIn 2007 the song \"Do It\" performed by Canadian singer-songwriter Nelly Furtado was revealed to actually be \"Acidjazzed Evening\", a chiptune-style track composed by the Finnish demoscene artist Janne Suni, but with muted bassline, added rums and lyrics. Timbaland, the song's producer, admitted to \"sampling\" Suni's work, but did not believe his usage constituted \"stealing\". See Timbaland plagiarism controversy\n\nOn November 20, 2008, electronic band Kraftwerk convinced the German Federal Supreme Court that even the smallest shreds of sounds (\"Tonfetzen\") are \"copyrightable\" (e.g. protected), and that sampling a few bars of a drum beat can be an infringement.\n\nIn 2011, Lynn Tolliver won a $1.2 million lawsuit over unauthorized sampling of his song \"I Need a Freak\", most notably used by Black Eyed Peas in the song \"My Humps.\" The song was back in court in 2014 over royalty issues.\n\nIn 2017, Drake won a lawsuit against the estate of Jimmy Smith over the sampling of \"Jimmy Smith Rap\", a spoken-word piece, in his song \"Pound Cake\" / \"Paris Morton Music 2\". A district judge ruled that Drake's manipulation of a passage from the piece, which discussed the superiority of jazz music over other genres, was a transformative use.\n\nThe most recent significant copyright case involving sampling held that even sampling three notes could constitute copyright infringement (\"Bridgeport Music, Inc. v. Dimension Films\", 410 F.3d 792 (6th Cir. 2005)). This case was roundly criticized by many in the music industry, including the RIAA.\n\nThere has been a second important US case on music sampling involving the Beastie Boys who sampled the sound recording of a flute track by James Newton in their song \"Pass the Mic.\" The Beastie Boys properly obtained a license to use the sound recording but did not clear the use of the \"song\" (the composition on which the recording is based including any music and lyrics). In \"Newton v. Diamond and Others\" 349 F.3d 591 (9th Cir. 2003) the US Appeals Court held that the use of the looped sample of a flute did not constitute copyright infringement as the core of the song itself had not been used.\n\nA June 2006 case involving Ludacris and Kanye West held that their use of the phrases \"like that\" and \"straight like that\" which had been used on an earlier hip-hop track by another artist was not infringing use.\n\nThe New Orleans–based company Cash Money Records and former rapper Juvenile were taken to court by local performer DJ Jubilee (signed to Take Fo' Record Label) for using chants from his song titled \"Back That Ass Up\". Both artists had used the same chant in each song, but Juvenile won the case because of the title's name change to \"Back That Azz Up\", which sold 2 million copies. Because of the name change, Jubilee lacked evidence that Juvenile had stolen from him, and Jubilee could not earn Juvenile's income from his song.\n\nToday, most mainstream acts obtain prior authorization to use samples, a process known as \"clearing\" (gaining permission to use the sample and, usually, paying an up-front fee and/or a cut of the royalties to the original artist). Independent bands, lacking the funds and legal assistance to clear samples, are at a disadvantage - unless they seek the services of a professional sample replay company or producer.\n\nCreative Commons licenses allow for legal sampling of the work as long as the license does not carry the No Derivatives (ND) tag and the derivative work complies with other license conditions.\n\n"}
{"id": "54569290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54569290", "title": "Legislative Council of Eastern Bengal and Assam", "text": "Legislative Council of Eastern Bengal and Assam\n\nThe Legislative Council of Eastern-Bengal and Assam was the legislative council of Eastern Bengal and Assam, a province of the British Indian Empire covering Bangladesh and Northeast India. It would meet in the Government House of Dacca, the provincial capital. Its ex-officio head was the Lieutenant Governor of Eastern Bengal and Assam.\n\nThe first Legislative Council was formed under the Indian Councils Act 1892. The Lt. Governor recommended members from the recommendations of District Boards, municipalities, landlords and chambers of commerce. The Lt. Governor required the assent of the Viceroy of India to appoint the nominees. The council was entitled to discuss budgets and make suggestions to the government, but lacked voting powers. Most members of the council were Europeans, with a minority being native Indian subjects.\n\nThe Indian Councils Act 1909, crafted by John Morley and Lord Minto, ushered partially elected legislative councils. The reforms increased the representation of native subjects. Land owners received the right to vote. Muslims were granted the right to a separate electorate, as part of affirmative action. The Legislative Council assembled for the purpose of making Laws and Regulations under the Provisions of the Indian Council Acts, 1861, 1892 and 1909. It advised the Executive Council of the Lt. Governor.\n\nThe council included 41 members after the Morley-Minto Reforms. Its composition is illustrated in the following.\n\nEast Bengal had the most seats on the council due to its large population. Colonial Assam, which covers the Indian states of Assam, Meghalaya, Nagaland, Mizoram and Arunachal Pradesh; had 5 seats on the 41-member council due to its smaller population.\n\n"}
{"id": "26780176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26780176", "title": "Legitimate military target", "text": "Legitimate military target\n\nProtocol I to the Geneva Conventions, Article 52, provides for the general protection of civilian objects, hindering attacks to military objectives. Article 52 states, \"In so far as objects are concerned, military objectives are limited to those objects which by their nature, location, purpose or use make an effective contribution to military action and whose total or partial destruction, capture or neutralization, in the circumstances ruling at the time, offers a definite military advantage.\"\n\nAny attack must be justified by military necessity: An attack or action must be intended to help in the military defeat of the enemy, it must be an attack on a military objective, and the harm caused to civilians or civilian property must be proportional and not \"excessive in relation to the concrete and direct military advantage anticipated\".\n\nSome targets are clearly legitimate. These include all military personnel who are not \"Hors de combat\". It also includes anyone who takes a direct part in military hostilities. It also include military equipment and bases and any buildings used as fortifications whether designed as such or used by the military ad hoc.\n\nCivilian infrastructure such as, rail, road, ports, airports and telecommunications used for the transportation of military assets, or used by the military for electronic communications are all considered to be legitimate military targets.\n\nWhere it start to get more nuanced is if the harm to civilians or civilian property is \"excessive in relation to the concrete and direct military advantage anticipated\". During the Second World War there was a song called \"a thing-ummy-bob\" which contain the lines \"And it's the girl that makes the thing that holds the oil, that oils the ring that works the thing-ummy-bob, that's going to win the war\". Whether such a girl is a legitimate target is an area that probably has to be decided on a case by case basis. However Protocol I suggests that if it is not clear, then the parties to the conflict should err on the side of caution as Article 52 states \"In case of doubt whether an object which is normally dedicated to civilian purposes, such as a place of worship, a house, or other dwelling or a school, is being used to make an effective contribution to military action, it shall be presumed not to be so used\".\n\n"}
{"id": "740492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=740492", "title": "List of people pardoned by Bill Clinton", "text": "List of people pardoned by Bill Clinton\n\nThe following is a partial list of people pardoned by Bill Clinton. As President, Bill Clinton used his power under the U.S. Constitution to grant pardons and clemency to 456 people, thus commuting the sentences of those already convicted of a crime, and obviating a trial for those not yet convicted. On January 20, 2001, he pardoned 140 people in the final hours of his presidency.\n\nThis list is a subset of the List of people pardoned or granted clemency by the President of the United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "56307197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56307197", "title": "Marchandes de modes", "text": "Marchandes de modes\n\nMarchande de modes was a French Guild organisation for women fashion merchants or milliners, normally meaning ornaments for headdresses, hats and dresses, within the city of Paris, active from August 1776 until 1791. It played a dominating role within the commercial life and fashion industry of France during the last decades prior to the French Revolution. Amongs its members where Rose Bertin, Mademoiselle Alexandre and Madame Eloffe. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "52292275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52292275", "title": "Maxims of Islamic Law", "text": "Maxims of Islamic Law\n\nThe Maxims of Islamic Law were established after representatives of all schools of thought regarding Muslim Jurisprudence came together to reach a consensus.\nMaxims refer to a body of abstract rules that were produced after a detailed study of the fiqh. They’re theoretical guidelines corresponding to different areas of fiqh, which may be dealing with anything from evidence to matrimonial law. The fiqh is Islamic jurisprudence,through the human interpretation of Islamic law.\n\n"}
{"id": "44455420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44455420", "title": "Ministers' money", "text": "Ministers' money\n\nMinisters' money was a tax payable by householders in certain towns in Ireland to fund the local Church of Ireland minister. It was introduced in 1665, modified in 1827, and abolished in 1857. The towns affected were Dublin, Cork, Limerick, Waterford, Drogheda, Kilkenny, Clonmel, and Kinsale. It was levied as a rate of up to one shilling in the pound (i.e. 5%) on the property's rateable value. The valuation, to a maximum of £60, was done by commissioners appointed by the Lord Lieutenant. Churchwardens appointed by the local minister collected ministers' money on the quarter days: Christmas, Lady Day, St John's Day, and Michaelmas. A 1723 act provided that, in Dublin, the same valuation could be used both for ministers' money and for calculating cess, a separate local rate used for public works and poor relief. Thereafter, cess rates were often expressed in terms of pence per shilling of minister's money.\n\nMinisters' money was resented because it was a regressive tax and applied only in towns with a Catholic majority. In rural areas, tithes were a similar grievance, and the 1830s Tithe War ended when the Tithe Commutation Act 1838 replaced tithes with \"tithe-rentcharges\"; but this did not apply to ministers' money. Another grievance was that the valuations for ministers' money were done infrequently and might not reflect recent improvements or decline in the property or its neighbourhood. An 1838 proposal by Daniel O'Connell to bring ministers' money into the terms of the Irish Poor Law was withdrawn. An 1848 committee of the Commons recommended its abolition, and motions to that effect were proposed by MPs Francis Murphy (1842 and 1844) and William Trant Fagan (six times 1847–54). A petition of Cork residents was laid on the table of the Lords in 1846. In 1854, Sir John Young, the Chief Secretary for Ireland, introduced an Act which reduced the rated charge by one quarter and charged the municipal authority (borough corporation or town commissioners) rather than the minister with collecting it. The Ecclesiastical Commissioners of Ireland forwarded the money from the municipality to the minister, making up the reduction from its own funds. In 1857, Fagan and Francis Beamish introduced a private member's bill, which was successfully enacted, to replace ministers' money with a direct subvention of ministers by the Ecclesiastical Commissioners. Some members of the Church of Ireland objected to the act as confiscation of church property, and saw it as a prelude to disestablishment, which eventually came under the Irish Church Act 1869.\n"}
{"id": "26118252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26118252", "title": "Nauruan constitutional referendum, 2010", "text": "Nauruan constitutional referendum, 2010\n\nA constitutional referendum was held in Nauru on 27 February 2010. Voters were asked to vote on amendments to the constitution, most notably a change to a directly elected president (instead of one chosen by parliament) and a strengthening of human rights legislation (but also a clarification of the distribution of powers and other, less notable amendments). A two-thirds majority was required for the amendments to pass.\n\nThe referendum was part of a large-scale constitutional renewal; the referendum had to be held to approve changes to some especially protected parts of the constitution, while other changes were made by simple parliamentary vote. Any changes would only take effect on the day of the next general election, likely in May/June 2011.\n\nTurnout was 78%, with almost 4,400 votes cast; the constitutional changes were rejected by majority of two thirds, almost 3,000 votes. It was considered immediately afterwards whether another referendum might be held at a later time.\n"}
{"id": "446453", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=446453", "title": "No-bid contract", "text": "No-bid contract\n\nA \"no-bid contract\" or \"sole source contract\" is a contract awarded without competitive bidding.\n\n"}
{"id": "147012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=147012", "title": "Non-combatant", "text": "Non-combatant\n\nNon-combatant is a term of art in the law of war and international humanitarian law, describing civilians who are not taking a direct part in hostilities; persons—such as combat medics and military chaplains—who are members of the belligerent armed forces but are protected because of their specific duties (as currently described in Protocol I of the Geneva Conventions, adopted in June 1977); combatants who are placed \"hors de combat\"; and neutral nationals (including military personnel) who are not fighting for one of the belligerents involved in an armed conflict. This particular status was first recognized under the Geneva Conventions with the First Geneva Convention of 1864.\n\nArticle 42 of Protocol I states that pilots and aircrews who are parachuting from aircraft in distress cannot be attacked regardless of what territory they are over. If pilots or aircrews land in territory controlled by the enemy, they must be given an opportunity to surrender before being attacked unless it is apparent that they are engaging in a hostile act or attempting to escape. Airborne forces who are descending by parachute from an aircraft, whether it is disabled or not, are not given the protection afforded by this Article and, therefore, may be attacked during their descent unless they are \"hors de combat\".\n\nArticle 50 of Protocol 1 defines a civilian as a person who is not a privileged combatant. Article 51 describes the protection that must be given to civilians (unless they are unprivileged combatants) and civilian populations. Chapter III of Protocol I regulates the targeting of civilian objects. Article 8(2)(b)(i) of the Rome Statute of the International Criminal Court also prohibits attacks directed against civilians.\n\nWhile not all states have ratified Protocol I or the Rome Statute, these provisions reiterated existing customary laws of war which is binding of all belligerents in an international conflict.\n\nArticle 3 in the general section of the Geneva Conventions states that in the case of armed conflict not of an international character (occurring in the territory of one of the High Contracting Parties) that each Party to the conflict shall be bound to apply, as a minimum, the following provisions to \"persons taking no active part in the hostilities\" (non-combatants). Such persons shall in all circumstances be treated humanely, with the following prohibitions:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6070822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6070822", "title": "Original appropriation", "text": "Original appropriation\n\nAppropriation is a process by which previously unowned natural resources, particularly land, become the property of a person or group of persons. The term is widely used in economics in this sense. In certain cases, it proceeds under very specifically defined forms, such as driving stakes or other such markers into the land claimed, which form gave rise to the term “staking a claim.” \"Squatter’s rights\" are another form of appropriation, but are usually asserted against land to which ownership rights of another party have been recognized. In legal regimes recognizing such acquisition of property, the ownership of duly appropriated holdings enjoys such protections as the law provides for ownership of property in general.\n\nUnder some systems using this method of acquiring ownership of land, it is permitted to employ violence in defending the duly appropriated holding against encroachment against the ownership or usage claims, again usually according to specifically defined forms including warnings to the encroaching party, exhaustion or unavailability of duly constituted law-enforcement resources, etc..\n\nLibertarian and other property-rights-oriented ideologies define appropriation as requiring the “mixing” of the would-be owner’s labor with the land claimed. A prime example of such mixing is farming, although various extractive activities such as mining, and the grazing of herds are often recognized. Personal, physical residence is often recognized after some minimum documented continuous period of time, as is built structures on the land whose ownership has not previously been recognized by the authority whose recognition is sought.\n\nAppropriation through use can apply to resources other than the exclusive right to use of the surface of the land. As mentioned, mineral rights are recognized under various conditions, as are riparian rights. Appropriation can apply to inland waters within a certain distance of appropriated land, and even to the liquid water in a reservoir, lake, or stream. , but many such claims have been overturned through legislated arrangements mandating other standards for the assignment of ownership rights in such things.\n\nAppropriation as a means of acquiring property is related to the schools of thought that call for ongoing use as a condition of continued ownership, as is the case in some regimes with trademarks, but it applies to initial ownership.\n\n"}
{"id": "31477714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31477714", "title": "Piracy Act 1850", "text": "Piracy Act 1850\n\nThe Piracy Act 1850 (13 & 14 Vict c 26) is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom. It relates to proceedings for the condemnation of ships and other things taken from pirates and creates an offence of perjury in such proceedings.\n\nSection 1 repealed 6 Geo 4 c 49 (1825) (An Act for encouraging the Capture or Destruction of Piratical Ships and Vessels). It was repealed by the Statute Law Revision Act 1875.\n\nSections 2 and 3 were repealed by the Statute Law Revision Act 1963.\n\nSection 4 was repealed by the Statute Law Revision Act 1875.\n\nThe words omitted were repealed by the Statute Law Revision Act 1875 and the Statute Law Revision Act 1891.\n\n\"The admiralty courts before mentioned\"\n\nSection 2 mentioned the High Court of Admiralty of England and all courts of vice admiralty in any dominions of Her Majesty beyond the seas. \n\nThe jurisdiction of the High Court of Admiralty of England was transferred to the High Court by section 1(1) of the Administration of Justice Act 1956. The jurisdiction of the Courts of Vice-Admiralty in Her Majesty's possessions abroad was transferred to Colonial Courts of Admiralty by sections 2(3) and 17 of the Colonial Courts of Admiralty Act 1890.\n\nIn England and Wales this section provides:\n\nThe words at the start were repealed by the Statute Law Revision Act 1891. The words in the second place and at the end were repealed by section 56(4) of, and Part IV of Schedule 11 to, the Courts Act 1971.\n\nThis section was repealed for Northern Ireland by the Perjury Act (Northern Ireland) 1946\n\n\"All the punishments, pains, and penalties to which persons convicted of wilful and corrupt perjury are liable\"\n\nThe penalty for perjury is now provided by section 1 of the Perjury Act 1911\n\n\"England\"\n\nThis expression includes Wales.\n\nThis section was repealed by the Statute Law Revision Act 1875.\n\nThe Schedule was repealed by the Statute Law Revision Act 1963.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1527392", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1527392", "title": "Prelinger Archives", "text": "Prelinger Archives\n\nThe Prelinger Archives is a collection of films relating to U.S. cultural history, the evolution of the American landscape, everyday life and social history. It was physically located in New York City from 1982–2002 and is now in San Francisco.\n\nThe Archives were founded by Rick Prelinger in 1982 in order to preserve what he calls \"ephemeral\" films: films sponsored by corporations and organizations, educational films, and amateur and home movies. Typically, ephemeral films were produced to fulfill specific purposes at specific times, and many exist today only by chance or accident. About 65% of the Archive's holdings are in the public domain because their copyrights have expired, or because they were U.S. productions that were published without proper copyright notice.\n\nThe stated goal of the Prelinger Archives is to \"collect, preserve, and facilitate access to films of historic significance that haven't been collected elsewhere.\"\n\nBy 2001, it had acquired 60,000 completed films of varying lengths and over 30,000 cans of unedited film. In 2002, the Library of Congress acquired the physical films held in the Archives as of that date; the Archives made two subsequent donations to Library of Congress totalling some 65,000 cans of film, primarily industrial and educational titles. As of spring 2015, the Archives holds about 8,000 films in videotape and digital form, approximately 14,000 home movies, and 1,000 industrial and sponsored films acquired since 2002.\n\nCompared to many other moving image archives, Prelinger Archives provides a relatively high level of public access to its collections. Over 6,400 public domain films are available for download and unrestricted reuse on the Internet at the Internet Archive. All the films in the archives can be licensed for production use through Getty Images.\n\nPrelinger Archives currently focuses principally on collecting home movies and amateur film from North America.\n\n"}
{"id": "3969968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3969968", "title": "Pro-Test", "text": "Pro-Test\n\nPro-Test was a British group that promoted and supported animal testing in medical research. It was founded on 29 January 2006 to counter SPEAK, an animal-rights campaign opposing the construction by Oxford University of a biomedical and animal-research facility, which SPEAK believes may include a primate-testing centre. Pro-Test held its first rally on 25 February 2006, attracting hundreds in support of the research facility and opposed by a smaller number of anti-lab demonstrators.\n\nThe group was founded by Laurie Pycroft from Swindon when he was 16. After forming the group, British newspapers described Pycroft as a \"sixth form drop-out,\" \"bedroom blogger,\" and \"campaigning hero.\" It is now run by a committee of ten: academics (Tipu Aziz, John Stein, and David Priestman), five Oxford graduate and undergraduate students, medical writer Alison Eden, and Pycroft.\n\nPro-Test says that it stands for \"science, reasoned debate and, above all, the welfare of mankind. … We support only non-violent protest and we condemn those using violence or intimidation to further their goals. We strongly support animal testing as crucially necessary to further medical science.\"\n\nIn February 2011, five years after its first rally, Pro-Test wound up its activities, saying it had \"successfully met its goals of defending the construction of the Oxford Lab, increasing awareness of the importance of animal research, and bringing the public on-side in support of life-saving medical research.\" Its US-based spin-off, Speaking of Research, remained active in the UK and US.\n\nThe construction site of the Oxford research centre is located on South Parks Road behind a five-metre (15 ft) barrier. Construction work is carried out by workmen wearing balaclavas and using unmarked vehicles, after the first contractor, Walter Lilly, owned by Montpellier plc, pulled out in the face of threats. The facility is intended to become the \"centre for all animal research at Oxford,\" according to Mark Matfield, former director of the Research Defence Society, resulting in \"the closure of a number of existing animal facilities\".\n\nThe formation of Pro-Test coincided with threats made by the Animal Liberation Front, against Oxford staff and students, on the \"Bite Back\" website. ALF spokesman, Robin Webb confirmed that \"high-level student groups working against SPEAK protesters may be targeted.\"\n\nPycroft describes in his blog, hosted at the LiveJournal website, how he set up Pro-Test after visiting his girlfriend in Oxford on 28 January 2006 and watching a SPEAK demonstration from the window of a coffee shop. Pycroft, his girlfriend, and one other, staged a personal counter-demonstration.\n\nAfter writing about the experience on his blog, Pycroft has said he was receiving 300 hits an hour within days, and after attracting interest from the media, Oxford students, and the pro-animal-testing movement, he decided to schedule a second demonstration to coincide with a SPEAK protest on 25 February 2006. According to \"The Times\", \"Pro-Test’s tactics mirror those of animal rights activists, with about 150 students using websites and chat forums to organise protests.\"\n\nAccording to the Daily Telegraph, over 800 students, academics and members of the public took part in the 25 February 2006 protest in the centre of Oxford which passed without violent incident, marching at the same time as more than 150 SPEAK protestors demonstrated in various locations across the city.\n\nA number of politicians and scientists addressed the Pro-Test demonstrators. These included Evan Harris, the Liberal Democrat science spokesperson and MP for Oxford West and Abingdon; the Radcliffe Hospital's neurosurgeon and Pro-Test committee member Professor Tipu Aziz, whose research into Parkinson's disease \"involves the use of primates,\" and who recently spoke out in support of testing cosmetics on animals; Simon Festing of the Research Defence Society, a lobby group funded by the pharmaceutical industry and universities; and Pro-Test committee member Professor John Stein, an Oxford neurophysiologist who \"induces Parkinson's disease in monkeys and then attaches electrodes to their brains to test therapies which may help human sufferers,\" according to \"The Guardian\". In his speech to the crowd, Stein declared, \"This is a historic day; we are drawing a line in the sand.\" \n\nSupporters of Pro-Test marched through Oxford on Saturday, 3 June 2006. Their route led them through Radcliffe Square, the High Street and ended nearby the laboratory in the University's science area. Speakers included Colin Blakemore (then chief executive of the Medical Research Council), Evan Harris MP and Alan Duncan MP (the Shadow Cabinet Trade and Industry Secretary). David Priestman, a researcher of genetic disorders in children at Oxford University, told the \"Oxford Mail\" his reasons for joining the rally: \n\nPro-Test held a third rally in Oxford on 9 February 2008. According to the BBC, around 200 people marched in protest at \"fear and intimidation\" from animal rights groups. Towards the start of the event, a lone animal rights protestor started to shout in counter protest, but was escorted away by the police.\n\nSpeakers at the rally included Robin Lovell-Badge, a stem cell researcher at the National Institute for Medical Research, Evan Harris and Laurie Pycroft. Peter Hollins, chief executive of the British Heart Foundation and chair of the Coalition for Medical Progress, was also scheduled to attend but was unable due to illness.\n\nIn Spring 2008, Pro-Test Spokesman, Tom Holder, set up Speaking of Research, a group based in the US with similar goals to that of Pro-Test\n\nOn 22 April 2009 more than 700 staff, students and Los Angeles residents led by the neuroscientist Professor David Jentsch held a rally to launch the UCLA chapter of Pro-Test, and to stand up to the animal rights extremists who has targeted Prof. Jentsch and other scientists in a campaign of harassment and arson. At the event, Tom Holder announced the launch of The Pro-Test Petition which aims to give people in the US the \"opportunity to show [their] support for the scientists and [their] opposition to the use of threats and violence\". This petition, to defend animal research, is similar to The People's Petition which gained over 20,000 signatures in the United Kingdom.\n\nAn unnamed Oxford academic told the BBC that \"a war is looming over 'scientific freedom' and the 'future of progress',\" and suggests that the Pro-Test campaign is part of a wider reaction against animal-rights activism.\n\nPro-Test have taken the case for animal research to Parliament, participating in a debate at The Associate Parliamentary Group for Animal Welfare (APGAW). The debate focused specifically upon whether the Oxford biomedical research lab should be built and involved both MPs and members of the public. The principal speakers were Iain Simpson, press officer for Pro-Test, and Dr. Jarrod Bailey of Europeans for Medical Progress.\n\nPro-Test handed out doughnuts and cakes to workers on the South Parks Road site on 31 March 2006 to show their support for their work.\n\nPro-Test fielded Pycroft for a debate at the Oxford Union on the motion \"This house would not test on animals\". Supporting the motion were Dr Gill Langley, Dr Andrew Knight, Uri Geller and Alistair Currie. On the opposing side were Pycroft, Professor Colin Blakemore, Professor John Stein and Professor Lord Robert Winston. The motion was defeated, 273 to 48 of the Union members voting with the opposing side.\n\nA cross-college student referendum proposed by Pro-Test was held on 16 November 2006. It proposed support for the Oxford lab's construction and animal testing in general, and found support from approximately 90% of voters. \n\nOn 9 May 2006, the BBC reported that Pro-Test had bought ten shares in GlaxoSmithKline (GSK), as a \"gesture of solidarity\" with the company and its investors. An animal rights group had earlier sent letters to individual shareholders threatening to reveal personal details unless their shares were sold. The letters explained GSK's investors were targeted because of the company's association with Huntingdon Life Sciences. Pro-Test announced that their share purchase was to demonstrate that \"intimidation has no place in the UK\".\n\nBritish Prime Minister Tony Blair gave his support to Pro-Test and The People's Petition in an article for the \"Sunday Telegraph\", citing \"the Pro-Test demonstration in Oxford, which... deserves support\" as an example of the change in public attitudes in the UK. \n\nThe BBC programme Newsnight hosted a debate on animal testing on 24 July 2006. Tipu Aziz, John Stein and Iain Simpson of Pro-Test featured in the debate, as did members of SPEAK and Europeans for Medical Progress.\n\nIn February 2011, five years after its first rally, Pro-Test announced that it had wound up its activities after it claimed to have \"successfully met its goals of defending the construction of the Oxford Lab, increasing awareness of the importance of animal research, and bringing the public on-side in support of life-saving medical research.\" However, its initially US-based spin-off, Speaking of Research, \"continues to be active in the UK and US.\"\n\nIn September 2012, an Italian spin-off of Pro-Test was created and named \"\". It has been founded by a group of scientists and students concerned about the spiralling of violence and pressure over government and public opinion against animal testing; these circumstances led to the closure of \"Green Hill\", a beagle-breeding facility in Northern Italy in July 2012, after several raids during the previous months by animal-rights activists, one of which including the stealing of some dogs from the facility on 28 April 2012.\n\nOn 20 April 2013, another foray to an animal testing facility took place at the University of Milan, which led to the release of mice and rabbits and consistent damage to researches carried out for years). It was made by the same group of activists, united under the banner of \"Stop Green Hill\".\nFollowing this event, Pro-Test Italia called for a rally in defense of animal testing on 1 June in Milan. It was meant to condemn the animal-rights activists’ actions and to raise awareness about the importance of animal testing in medical research. The protest also had positive press coverage in international scientific journals such as Nature and The Scientist.\nSome animal-rights activists tried to interfere but the Police prevented any escalation.\n\nOn 8 June 2013 Pro-Test Italia organized in various Italian cities the event \"Italia unita per la corretta informazione scientifica\" (Italy united for scientific information).\n\nOn 19 September 2013 a second demonstration took place, this time in Rome, to persuade the Italian government to revise the national amendments to the European Directive 2013/63/EU which could put at risk biomedical research in Italy.\n\nIn May 2015, a group of students and scientists in Germany decided to follow the example of their colleagues in the UK and Italy and founded \"Pro-Test Deutschland\". Pro-Test Deutschland is a non-profit organization that first began as a reaction to the decision made by Nikos Logothetis, director of the Max Planck Institute for Biological Cybernetics in Tübingen to discontinue his research with nonhuman primates. Logothetis’s decision came after an undercover animal rights activist had filmed in the monkey facility of the Tübingen institute. The film was broadcast on national television in September 2014, leading to protests and hostility against the institute and against animal research in general.\n\nAfter these events there was a lack of response by the scientific community to come out publicly in support of basic animal research like that conducted at the Tübingen institute. Many officials seemed quite unprepared for such a situation. Pro-Test Deutschland therefore decided to promote the education of its members and the public about how to speak and communicate about animal research effectively.\n\nPro-Test Deutschland issued a mission statement in which they point out that scientists do not lack moral fibre but rather a voice to speak about science. Pro-Test Deutschland intends to lend its voice so the public and scientists can engage in an informed and fair debate. Unlike Pro-Test UK and Pro-Test Italia, who take a very vocal position for animal research, and raise support through public actions and demonstrations, Pro-Test Deutschland is more interested in sharing information and engendering an open, educated and unbiased debate.\n\nTo date Pro-Test Deutschland mostly focuses its activities on maintaining an informative and well-balanced website containing FAQs and fact checking sections as well as on community outreach and media communication. Additionally, Pro-Test Deutschland is engaging with the Tübingen public more directly by means such as information booths in the Market Square. Since journalists in Germany wishing to report on animal research had heretofore been lacking reliable information in German, Pro-Test Deutschland quickly received a lot of attention, with national newspapers printing interviews. and national radio inviting one of their speakers to panel discussions. Pro-Test Deutschland, being initially based in Tübingen, has by now grown to include students and scientists in other German towns and cities such as Frankfurt, Bonn, Münster, Göttingen, Leipzig and Berlin.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "471707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=471707", "title": "Proxy murder", "text": "Proxy murder\n\nA proxy murder is when someone commits any type of homicide, most likely by one person ordering another person, or through the use of a third party.\n\nA common example of this would be a person contracting a hit man, or a hired killer. Hit men commit the act of murder on a specific target or targets, and may receive payment in exchange for the murder or murders committed. This is what is known as contract killing. Hit men are most often associated with organized crime, e.g. the Mafia and street gangs, and they have also recently been found on the dark web advertising their services.\n\nHonor killing is a type of murder when a person kills a member of his or her family for tarnishing the family image. Usually the victim is a woman who has violated sexual norms, such as refusing an arranged marriage or having relationships with unapproved, unrelated men. It is often a proxy murder, in which the order to kill is given out by the head of the family, usually the father, instructing a brother to kill his sister. In some very rare cases, hit men have been hired to perform the honor killings.\n\nA famous case involving proxy murder was that of John Bodkin Adams. John Bodkin Adams was an Irish physician who was investigated from 1946 to 1952 when 152 of his patients died mysteriously. Out of the 152, 130 of them mentioned Adams in their will, leaving him various amounts of money and items. Adams was accused of having his assisting nurses give lethal doses of opiates. Adams was arrested and tried for several counts of murder. He admitted to helping his nurses deliver morphine to patients, but he said it was to ease their passing, not to kill them. Adams was acquitted for several of the murders, and many others were withdrawn because the cases were not strong enough to hold up in court. In the end, Adams was convicted of fraud for lying on cremation papers.\n\nThe person instigating a proxy murder may or may not be legally guilty of the crime of murder. This legal distinction varies where in the world the murder takes place. The person who instigated the murder is usually guilty as well. They may be charged with murder, conspiracy to commit murder, or being an accessory to murder. An example of this is Charles Manson and the Manson Family Murders. Manson was the leader of the Manson Family cult that resided in California in the late 1960s. In 1969, the Manson Family committed nine murders across a five-week span. One of the more notable people murdered was actress Sharon Tate. Charles Manson did not commit any of the murders himself, but instructed the members of the Manson family to do it instead. In 1971, Manson was convicted on the charge of conspiracy. The court ruled that Manson had as much guilt tied to him with that of his followers. Manson had been sentenced to 9 concurrent life sentences at the Corcoran State prison in California.\n\nA notorious case of proxy murder was that of Mark Hopkinson, who ordered the bombing deaths of an attorney and his family in 1977 in Evanston, Wyoming. That bombing killed attorney Vincent Vehar, his wife, and one of his sons. \nWhile in prison awaiting trial for the Vehar murders, Hopkinson ordered the torture-murder of one of his employees, Jeff Green, who was about to testify against Hopkinson in court.\n\nThe man who bombed the Vehar house received a twenty-year sentence, but the hitmen who murdered Jeff Green have never been found. Hopkinson was nevertheless convicted of ordering all four murders and was executed by lethal injection in 1992.\n"}
{"id": "54993949", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54993949", "title": "Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets Authority", "text": "Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets Authority\n\nThe Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets Authority (PPDA) is a parastatal organisation in Uganda that is responsible for regulation and supervision of procurement and disposal of government-owned property and other assets.\n\nThe headquarters of the PPDA are located on the 5th Floor, in the UEDCL Towers, at 37 Nakasero Road, on Nakasero Hill, in the Central Division of Kampala, the capital and largest city of Uganda. The coordinates of the location of the organisation's headquarters are:00°19'34.0\"N, 32°34'38.0\"E (Latitude:0.326111; Longitude:32.577222).\n\nIn 2003, the Ugandan parliament enacted the Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets Authority Act (PPDA Act). Following that, in February 2003, the Public Procurement and Disposal of Public Assets Authority (PPDA), was created and became operational. It is the \"regulator of public procurement and disposal of public assets in Uganda\".\n\n, the PPDA faced challenges in the following areas: (1) At that time, the 70 employees were not enough to cater to the many services required of staff. (2) The Authority supervises procurement and disposal of assets in the central government and in all local governments across the country. However, the staffing and funding at the authority has remained static since its creation in 2003. (3) The Authority's offices are in Kampala. However, increasingly, the authority's services are needed in far-flung upcountry locations. There is difficulty in meeting the need for the authority's services upcountry, in view of limited resources in the areas of staff and funding. (4) Corruption remains a big challenge. (5) There are inadequate number of trained professionals in procurement in Uganda. The lack of experienced trained procurement officers in the districts and some central government ministries creates hardship in observing procurement regulations and guidelines.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29291130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29291130", "title": "RealNetworks, Inc. v. DVD Copy Control Ass'n, Inc.", "text": "RealNetworks, Inc. v. DVD Copy Control Ass'n, Inc.\n\nRealNetworks, Inc. v. DVD Copy Control Association, Inc., 641 F. Supp. 2d 913 (2009), is a United States District Court case involving RealNetworks, the movie studios and DVD Copy Control Association regarding the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) claims on the manufacturing and distribution of RealDVD, and a breach of license agreement. The district court concluded that RealNetworks violated the anti-circumvention and anti-trafficking provisions of the DMCA when the DVD copying software RealDVD bypasses the copy protection technologies of DVD.\n\nThis lawsuit is one of the many legal actions taken by the movie studios in an attempt to restrict the copying of DVDs.\n\nThis case involves the digital media company RealNetworks, DVD Copy Control Association (DVD CCA) and the major motion picture studios. RealNetworks licensed the Content Scramble System (CSS), a technology commonly used on copyrighted DVDs to prevent unauthorized copying, from DVD CCA and released the product RealDVD that allows users to make hard drive copies of copyrighted DVDs. However, some major movie studios feel that RealDVD can threaten the emerging market in digital downloads and encourage people to make copies of rental DVDs instead of purchasing. RealNetworks, on the other hand, believes that copying of DVD is now legal after the favorable ruling of a 2007 California Superior Court case against Kaleidescape, a manufacturer of high-end media servers capable of copying copyrighted DVD content to the servers. Therefore, RealNetworks sued the DVD CCA and several major movie studios on September 30, 2008 seeking for a declaratory judgment that RealDVD neither violated the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) nor breached the licensing contract with DVD CCA. On the same day, the studios sued RealNetworks by alleging that RealNetworks violated the DMCA and breached the contract.\n\nThe district court issued a temporary restraining order on October 3, 2008 after the initial hearing of the case to prevent the sale and distribution of RealDVD. The temporary restraining order was turned into a preliminary injunction against RealNetworks on August 11, 2009 by Judge Marilyn Hall Patel, barring the manufacturing and distribution of RealDVD or any other similar software product after the court found that RealNetworks violated the DMCA and breached the CSS licensing agreement with DVD CCA.\n\nThe DMCA prohibits circumvention of \"effective\" access control of copyrighted works and the trafficking of tools that are designed primarily to circumvent \"effective\" access control or copy control of copyrighted works. RealNetworks alleged that that CSS is not effective anymore because it has been cracked or hacked. However, the court ruled that the DMCA statute does not require the access control or copy control technology to be strong as long as it prevents unauthorized access and/or copying under ordinary course of operation and with the authority of the copyright owner. Since the court concluded that CSS is still effective for ordinary uses, the DMCA claim against RealNetworks is valid.\n\nThe court decided that RealDVD is primarily designed or produced to circumvent CSS technology. In particular, the court found that the removal of crucial CSS technology in DVD drive-locking, secure storage of content keys on DVD, CSS authentication and CSS bus encryption during the playback of copied DVD content from the hard drive is a circumvention of CSS, even though they are not needed when playback from the hard drive. The court further explained that even though RealNetworks is a licensee of CSS technology, it does not shield RealNetworks from DMCA claim because the removal of CSS technology is a violation of DMCA.\n\nRealDVD also circumvented copy control measure in Sony ARccOS Protection and Macrovision RipGuard, which are designed not to impair normal playback but to prevent copying by inserting intentional bad sectors and fake menu structures to the DVDs, by mimicking the way human watches a DVD or by skipping the unreadable data. RealNetworks contended that Sony ARccOS and Macrovision RipGuard are not effective copy control measure because they only prolong the copying process. The district court rejected this argument because ARccOS and RipGuard may make copying take so long that copying is essentially not viable. RealNetworks then argued that ARccOS and RipGuard are never encountered during normal playback, leaving a back door to copying wide open, thus, they are not effective copy control measures. But the court disagreed with this argument because if this is the law, then \"effective\" copy protection measure will have to prevent against every possible current and future means of copying. Finally, RealNetworks asserted that regular DVD players can make temporary copies as cache, so ARccOS and RipGuard do not prevent copying. However, the court deemed this argument flawed by distinguishing that cache copies are byproduct of playback, but copies made by RealDVD are permanent.\n\nBefore the March 16, 2009 hearing the DVD Copy Control Association, Inc. wrote to U.S. District Judge Marilyn Hall Patel that RealNetworks had destroyed critical pieces of evidence and that this had irrevocably damaged the integrity of the judicial process. The claim was that RealNetworks knew from the start that what they were producing had a high likelihood of resulting in legal action so the company took measures to cover its tracks along the way. The documentation of this released to the public was heavily redacted, however it indicated that RealNetworks intentionally eliminated engineering notebooks, code files, and documents that pointed to the fact that the RealDVD software was mainly produced by hackers.\n\nRealNetworks argued that it fully complied with the CSS license agreement not only by preserving all of the associated protection but also by adding Advanced Encryption System (AES) encryption to the copied content so that only the person who made the copy can play back the copied content with RealNetworks' player. However, the court decided that preserving the CSS protection only once during the initial playback of the DVD is not enough and any subsequent absence of CSS technology during the playback of copied DVD content from the hard drive is a contract violation.\n\nOn May 14, 2009, RealNetworks amended the lawsuit to include antitrust claims against DVD CCA and the major studios, alleging that the delayed product launch of RealDVD, temporary restraining order and preliminary injunction are the results of DVD CCA and the movie studios conspiring to deny the licensing of CSS to make hard drive copies of DVD content. However, the court dismissed the claim because consumer can get the same hard drive copies through digital downloads, and some DVDs even come with an additional, non-CSS encrypted DVD that allows the users to copy the content onto the hard drive. Also, even if RealNetworks is able to obtain a license to circumvent CSS, RealNetworks still violated the DMCA for circumventing ARccOS and RipGuard.\n\nIn November 2009, RealNetworks filed an appeal to the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit, asking to remove the injunction on the sales of RealDVD. RealNetworks claimed that the district court applied an incorrect legal standard in granting a request by the major studios to halt sales of the software and was wrong to presume RealDVD would cause the film industry irreparable harm. In March 2010, RealNetworks and DVD CCA reached a settlement in which RealNetworks agreed to the injunction against selling the RealDVD software and a payment of $4.5 million in legal cost to the studios. It would also refund the payments from the approximately 2,700 current users of RealDVD.\n\nDespite the defeat of DVD-copying tools in this and other court cases, many similar software, such as HandBrake which by itself only works with unprotected digital media, continue to be free and widespread on the internet. Some believe that this indicates the ineffectiveness of the major studios' effort to restrict the copying of DVDs through legal rulings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20618843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20618843", "title": "Remix (book)", "text": "Remix (book)\n\nRemix: Making Art and Commerce Thrive in the Hybrid Economy is Lawrence Lessig's fifth book. The book was made available for free download and remixing under the CC BY-NC Creative Commons license via Bloomsbury Academic. It is still available via the Internet Archive. It details a hypothesis about the societal effect of the Internet, and how this will affect production and consumption of popular culture to a \"remix culture\".\n\nIn \"Remix\" Lawrence Lessig, a Harvard law professor and a respected voice in what he deems the \"copyright wars\", describes the disjuncture between the availability and relative simplicity of remix technologies and copyright law. Lessig insists that copyright law as it stands now is antiquated for digital media since every \"time you use a creative work in a digital context, the technology is making a copy\" (98). Thus, amateur use and appropriation of digital technology is under unprecedented control that previously extended only to professional use.\n\nLessig insists that knowledge and manipulation of multi-media technologies is the current generation's form of \"literacy\"- what reading and writing was to the previous. It is the vernacular of today. The children growing up in a world where these technologies permeate their daily life are unable to comprehend why \"remixing\" is illegal. Lessig insists that amateur appropriation in the digital age cannot be stopped but only 'criminalized'. Thus most corrosive outcome of this tension is that generations of children are growing up doing what they know is \"illegal\" and that notion has societal implications that extend far beyond copyright wars. The book is now available as a free download under one of the Creative Commons' licenses (CC BY-NC 3.0).\n\nLessig outlines two cultures - the read-only culture (RO) and the read/write culture (RW). The RO culture is the culture we consume more or less passively. The information or product is provided to us by a 'professional' source, the content industry, that possesses an authority on that particular product/information. Analog technologies inherently supported RO culture's business model of production and distribution and limited the role of the consumer to just that, 'consuming'.\n\nDigital technology, however, does not have the 'natural' constraints of the analog that preceded it. \"What before was both impossible and illegal is now just illegal\"(38). Steve Jobs was the first to see potential in this new market made possible by digital technology. RO culture had to be recoded in order to compete with the \"free\" distribution made possible by the Internet. iTunes Music store was proof of this. While it provided digital music it was protected by a Digital Rights Management (DRM) code from re-distribution. Lessig uses this key example to show that it is possible to achieve a business model which balances access and control and is equally attractive to both the consumers and the creators. In addition, digital technologies have changed the way we think about 'access'. Today most of us would never structure our day around a particular program because we know that it is most likely available online - even if not necessarily free of charge. Lessig insists, using Amazon as his premiere example, that the future of entertainment and advertising lies in accumulating information about a consumer and tailoring the product to their preferences.\n\nAs opposed to RO culture, Read/Write culture has a reciprocal relationship between the producer and the consumer. Taking works, such as songs, and appropriating them in private circles is exemplary of RW culture, which was considered to be the 'popular' culture before the advent of reproduction technologies. The technologies and copyright laws that soon followed, however, changed the dynamics of popular culture. As it became professionalized people were taught to defer production to the professionals.\n\nLessig posits that digital technologies provide the tools for reviving RW culture and democratizing production. He uses blogs to explain the three layers of this democratization. Blogs have redefined our relationship to the content industry as they allowed access to non-professional content. The 'comments' feature that soon followed provided a space for readers to have a dialogue with the amateur contributors. 'Tagging' of the blogs by users based on the content provided the necessary layer for users to filter the sea of content according to their interest. The third layer added bots that analyzed the relationship between various websites by counting the clicks between them and, thus, organizing a database of preferences. The three layers working together established an \"ecosystem of reputation\"(61) that served to guide users through the blogosphere. Lessig uses the blog model to demonstrate a wider conclusion - while there is no doubt many amateur online publications cannot compete with the validity of professional sources, the democratization of digital RW culture and the 'ecosystem of reputation' provides a space for many talented voices to be heard that was not available in the pre-digital RO model.\n\nLessig argues that today digital culture permeates our lifestyle to such extent - an average teenager will spend an hour per weekend day using the computer for leisure and only 7 minutes reading - that \"it is no surprise that these other forms of 'creating' are becoming an increasingly dominant form of 'writing'\"(69). Previous generations used textual quotes to build on writings before them. Today, this process of quoting or collage is manifest through digital media. The remix utilizes the (multi-media) language through which the current generations communicate. They quote content from various sources to create something \"new\". Thus, the remix provides a commentary on the sounds and images it utilizes the same way a critical essay provides commentary on the texts it quotes. One of Lessig's favorite remix examples is the \"Bush and Blair Love Song\" which remixes images of President Bush and Tony Blair to make it appear as if they are lip-synching Lionel Richie's \"Endless Love\". \"The message couldn't be more powerful: an emasculated Britain, as captured in the puppy love of its leader for Bush\" (74). This remix in Lessig's eyes is exemplary of the power this type of expression holds - to not tell but show. Using preexisting images is vital to the art form because the production of meaning draws heavily on cultural reference an image or sound brings with it.\n\nTheir meaning comes not from the content of what they say; it comes from the reference, which is expressible only if it is the original that gets used. (p.74)\n\nLessig describes the remix phenomenon instrumental in creating cultural literacy and a critical view of media and advertising that permeates our daily lives. But, as it stands today, copyright law will inhibit education employing these digital forms of literacy for institutions will shy away from use that might be deemed 'illegal'. Yet, Lessig reiterates, the remix form of expression cannot be killed, only criminalized.\n\nIn addition to describing two cultures Lessig also proposes two economies: the commercial and the \"sharing\". The \"commercial economy\" is governed by the simple logic of the market, where products and services have a tangible economic value, be it money or labor. The Internet has been extremely successful as a portal for commercial economies to flourish - improving existing businesses and serving as a platform for thousands of new ones. It has been exceptionally fruitful of businesses that cater to a niche market - exemplified by such companies as Amazon and Netflix which provide a range of items that could not be accommodated by one physical space. This dynamic has been outlined by \"Wired\"\"s editor in chief, Chris Anderson, in his book \"The Long Tail\". Another obvious success story of a digital commercial economy is Google, which has managed to create value from value others have already created.\n\nThe \"sharing economy\" functions outside monetary exchange. We all belong to sharing economies - most obvious examples are our friendships and relationships. This economy is regulated not by a metric of price but by a set of social relations. Like the commercial economy, the sharing economy extends into the digital realm. Lessig's favorite example is Wikipedia itself. The top ten most visited website relies on user contribution - from creation to editing - for its content and gives no monetary incentive for this contribution. While providing the option of anonymity, the users of Wikipedia have been remarkably consistent with the site's suggestions - be it regarding consistent aesthetic or neutral point of view. A vital characteristic of a successful sharing economy is people are in it because they want to be.\n\nLessig does a number of case studies of three types of successful hybrids.\n\nLessig cites sites such as Dogster, Craigslist, Flickr, and YouTube as successful internet community spaces that answer demand of the users who, in turn, reciprocate through sharing content and self-regulating by flagging inappropriate content. At the same time the sites make revenue through advertisements but are extremely careful to not overwhelm the users and disrupt the sense of community.\n\nCollaboration hybrids center on the belief of the users that they are working towards a common goal or \"building\" something together. Lessig's notable examples are volunteers of Usenet that help those technologically in need solve computer problems – from minor to complex. They are not paid or recognized by Microsoft yet they are instrumental in building value for the company. Similarly, \"Yahoo! Answers\" launched in December 2005 has gathered an enormous following of people answering other people's questions for free. They do not participate for any incentive other than to share their expertise and help others. In this category Lessig also cites the now infamous Heather Lawver 2000 case after the teenager started a fan site for J.K. Rowling's Harry Potter series, only to be constantly 'threatened' by Warner for illegal use of copyrighted content. Eight years later many large corporations have, at least in part, learned from Warner's mistake and Lawver's persuasive argument of the Potter Wars: fans are \"a part of your marketing budget that you don't have to pay for\". Thus lighter control of content use allows fans to share their appropriation of content while promoting it free. Everyone wins.\n\nLessig's third category lacks the 'spaces' qualification of the previous two because they create a community on a much grander, or more comprehensive scale. One such community is Second Life through which users can immerse themselves in a virtual environment and build a multi-faceted life not unlike real life but without the same limitations, while creating value by producing and sharing new codes for the program.\n\nLessig concludes that a feeling of ownership and contribution is vital to making hybrid communities function. These communities are not built on sacrifice but on mutual satisfaction in which both the consumer and producer benefit.\n\nParallel economies can coexist, the author insists, and are not mutually exclusive. In fact, crossover is not uncommon, particularly in the world of the Creative Commons which Lessig helped found. Many artists that have initially licensed their work under a CC license, that allowed others to share and remix their work as long as they were credited, have used the momentum from this visibility to crossover to the commercial economy.\n\nLessig warns that hybrid economies will do well to avoid what he calls sharecropping, that is corporations forcing the remixer to give up the right to his/her creation (providing they don't own the rights to all/some of its components)even if they plan to use their work for commercial purposes. \n\nThe hybrid that respects the rights of the creator - both the original creator and the remixer - is more likely to survive that the one that doesn't. (p. 246)\n\nLessig outlines five steps that will put us on the path towards more efficient and sound copyright law.\n\n\nIn his final chapter \"Reforming Us\", Lessig insists that in order to move towards ending the senseless copyright wars, which are mostly harming our children, we must understand that governmental control has its limits.\n\nThe children growing up in a digital age are seeing these laws as senseless and corrupt and, more importantly, trivial as they continue to remix and download despite it. Lessig warns that this phenomenon can have a larger trickle-down effect towards a child's view of law in general. When put in this light, copyright reform carries much larger implications for the morality of the digital age generations.\n\nOn an episode of \"The Colbert Report\" with Lessig as a guest, Stephen Colbert made fun of the book's status under Creative Commons by taking a copy, signing it, and then proclaiming it the 'Colbert' edition for sale. Lessig laughed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "926965", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=926965", "title": "Scareware", "text": "Scareware\n\nScareware is a form of malware which uses social engineering to cause shock, anxiety, or the perception of a threat in order to manipulate users into buying unwanted software. Scareware is part of a class of malicious software that includes rogue security software, ransomware and other scam software that tricks users into believing their computer is infected with a virus, then suggests that they download and pay for fake antivirus software to remove it. Usually the virus is fictional and the software is non-functional or malware itself. According to the Anti-Phishing Working Group, the number of scareware packages in circulation rose from 2,850 to 9,287 in the second half of 2008. In the first half of 2009, the APWG identified a 585% increase in scareware programs.\n\nThe \"scareware\" label can also apply to any application or virus which pranks users with intent to cause anxiety or panic.\n\nInternet security writers use the term \"scareware\" to describe software products that produce frivolous and alarming warnings or threat notices, most typically for fictitious or useless commercial firewall and registry cleaner software. This class of program tries to increase its perceived value by bombarding the user with constant warning messages that do not increase its effectiveness in any way. Software is packaged with a look and feel that mimics legitimate security software in order to deceive consumers.\n\nSome websites display pop-up advertisement windows or banners with text such as: \"Your computer may be infected with harmful spyware programs. Immediate removal may be required. To scan, click 'Yes' below.\" These websites can go as far as saying that a user's job, career, or marriage would be at risk. Products using advertisements such as these are often considered scareware. Serious scareware applications qualify as rogue software.\n\nSome scareware is not affiliated with any other installed programs. A user can encounter a pop-up on a website indicating that their PC is infected. In some scenarios, it is possible to become infected with scareware even if the user attempts to cancel the notification.\nThese popups are especially designed to look like they come from the user's operating system when they are actually a webpage.\n\nA 2010 study by Google found 11,000 domains hosting fake anti-virus software, accounting for 50% of all malware delivered via internet advertising.\n\nStarting on March 29, 2011, more than 1.5 million web sites around the world have been infected by the LizaMoon SQL injection attack spread by scareware.\n\nResearch by Google discovered that scareware was using some of its servers to check for internet connectivity. The data suggested that up to a million machines were infected with scareware. The company has placed a warning in the search results of users whose computers appear to be infected.\n\nAnother example of scareware is Smart Fortress. This site scares people into thinking they have lots of viruses on their computer and asks them to buy the professional service.\n\nSome forms of spyware also qualify as scareware because they change the user's desktop background, install icons in the computer's notification area (under Microsoft Windows), and claiming that some kind of spyware has infected the user's computer and that the scareware application will help to remove the infection. In some cases, scareware trojans have replaced the desktop of the victim with large, yellow text reading \"Warning! You have spyware!\" or a box containing similar text, and have even forced the screensaver to change to \"bugs\" crawling across the screen. Winwebsec is the term usually used to address the malware that attacks the users of Windows operating system and produces fake claims similar to that of genuine anti-malware software.\n\nSpySheriff exemplifies spyware and scareware: it purports to remove spyware, but is actually a piece of spyware itself, often accompanying SmitFraud infections. Other antispyware scareware may be promoted using a phishing scam.\n\nAnother approach is to trick users into uninstalling legitimate antivirus software, such as Microsoft Security Essentials, or disabling their firewall. Since antivirus programs typically include protection against being tampered with or disabled by other software, scareware may use social engineering to convince the user to disable programs which would otherwise prevent the malware from working.\n\nIn 2005, Microsoft and Washington state successfully sued Secure Computer (makers of Spyware Cleaner) for $1 million over charges of using scareware pop-ups.\nWashington's attorney general has also brought lawsuits against Securelink Networks, High Falls Media, and the makers of Quick Shield.\n\nIn October 2008, Microsoft and the Washington attorney general filed a lawsuit against two Texas firms, Branch Software and Alpha Red, producers of the Registry Cleaner XP scareware.\nThe lawsuit alleges that the company sent incessant pop-ups resembling system warnings to consumers' personal computers stating \"CRITICAL ERROR MESSAGE! - REGISTRY DAMAGED AND CORRUPTED\", before instructing users to visit a web site to download Registry Cleaner XP at a cost of $39.95.\n\nOn December 2, 2008, the U.S. Federal Trade Commission (\"FTC\") filed a Complaint in federal court against Innovative Marketing, Inc., ByteHosting Internet Services, LLC, as well as individuals Sam Jain, Daniel Sundin, James Reno, Marc D’Souza, and Kristy Ross. The Complaint also listed Maurice D’Souza as a Relief Defendant, alleged that he held proceeds of wrongful conduct but not accusing him of violating any law. The FTC alleged that the other Defendants violated the FTC Act by deceptively marketing software, including WinFixer, WinAntivirus, DriveCleaner, ErrorSafe, and XP Antivirus. According to the complaint, the Defendants falsely represented that scans of a consumer’s computer showed that it had been compromised or infected and then offered to sell software to fix the alleged problems.\n\nAnother type of scareware involves software designed to literally scare the user through the use of unanticipated shocking images, sounds or video.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37930152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37930152", "title": "Separation Edict", "text": "Separation Edict\n\nThe was a law composed of three articles which was promulgated by Toyotomi Hideyoshi on 8 October 1591, the 19th year of the Tensho era during the Azuchi–Momoyama period.\n\nThe law prohibits samurai and their retainers the buke hokonin, which were in turn divided into the chugen and the komono, from becoming peasants or merchants, and also bans peasants from abandoning their fields to engage in commerce or wage labor and warriors from employing buke hokonin who fled from their original masters. It lays down punishments for those who violate these provisions. Its purpose was to ensure stable revenue from the land tax and a pool of warriors in view of the imminent invasion of Korea.\n\n1. Townspeople and farmers should investigate if any samurai, chugen, or komono have become merchants or farmers since the expedition against Date Masamune in Oshu in the seventh month of last year. If any such people are found, they must be expelled. If any such people are hidden, the entire village will be punished.\n\n2. If any peasant abandons his fields and engages in commerce or wage labor, not only the farmer himself but his fellow villagers will be punished. Those not involved in either military service or working the fields will be investigated and expelled. If an official does not execute these instructions, he will have his lands seized for negligence. If there is any concealment by townspeople or farmers, the whole county or town will be held accountable.\n\n3. Do not employ anyone who has left his former master without permission whether he is a samurai or a komono. Thoroughly investigate an individual's background to ensure he has not done so. If he has done so, he shall be arrested and handed back to his former master. If this law is ignored or if a violator of the law is deliberately released then it is ordered that two or three people will be decapitated in the violator's place and their heads will be delivered to his former master. If this order is not carried out the person who sought to employ the violator will be punished.\n\nThough the Separation Edict was widely considered to be the law that first established the rigid class system of the subsequent Tokugawa shogunate based on the four occupations, Japanese historian Shosaku Takagi has called this into question. He believes that during this period of history the word \"samurai\" did not refer to warriors, but rather to the wakato, who were retainers of warriors just like the chugen and the komono. Takagi thus believes that the draconian social class structures imposed by the Separation Edict were actually intended specifically for the buke hokonin, including the wakato, chugen, and komono, and not for most of the individuals engaged in military service. According to this theory, the feudal class structure in Japan was in fact not legally mandated in 1591, but much later in the Edo period. However, Takagi acknowledges that the portions of the Edict relating to the peasantry did contribute to class separation.\n\n"}
{"id": "33579419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33579419", "title": "Soviet–Estonian Non-Aggression Pact", "text": "Soviet–Estonian Non-Aggression Pact\n\nSoviet–Estonian Non-Aggression Pact was a non-aggression pact, signed between the Soviet Union and Estonia on May 4, 1932. \nThe terms of the treaty were:\n\nArticle 1. Each party guarantees the borders of each other, set by the Treaty of Tartu, and must not infringe upon each other's borders.\nArticle 2. Each party agrees not to form a coalition against one another, form an alliance against one another, or politically or economically embargo each other.\n"}
{"id": "22723489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22723489", "title": "Thrift Financial Report", "text": "Thrift Financial Report\n\nAll regulated financial institutions in the United States are required to file periodic financial and other information with their respective regulators and other parties. Thrifts are required by the Office of Thrift Supervision (OTS), among other requirements, to file a key quarterly financial report called the Thrift Financial Report (TFR) to be filed electronically with the OTS. In 2007, there had been a proposal that thrifts convert to filing a similar report, the \"Report of Condition and Income\" commonly referred to as the Call Report, which banks prepare and file with the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. Since thrifts continue to file TFRs today, the proposal was dismissed or set aside for the time being.\n\nSpecifically, OTS regulation 12 CFR 563.180 requires the completion of the TFR by all savings associations as defined in 12 CFR 561.43. The TFR is filed electronically on a quarterly basis and is due no later than 30 days after quarter end, except for Schedule HC, Thrift Holding Company, and Schedule CMR, Consolidated Maturity and Rate, which are due no later than 45 days after quarter end.\n\nThe TFR contains 17 schedules, which include financial statements and supplemental information filed for the reporting savings association consolidated with its subsidiaries. Information on the TFR, including income and expense and cash flow data, is reported for the quarter, not year-to-date, with the exception of Schedule FS, Fiduciary and Related Services, in which fiduciary and related services income is reported for the calendar year-to-date. Most information on the TFR is available to the public for individual institutions; however, certain information is considered proprietary and is not released. All data are released in aggregate form. See this list of TFR schedules and their availability to the public. TFRs, and Call Reports filed are publicly available at the FDIC website; TFR schedules for an institution can be viewed (htm pages) or can be downloaded as text (.txt) files to be viewed or manipulated as desired with programs such as Microsoft Excel or Microsoft Word.\n\nWith the implementation of the Dodd Frank Act and the sunset of the OTS on July 21, 2011, all thrift institutions are required to submit Call Reports instead of TFR effective March 2012.\n\nThe TFR comprises these 17 schedules, not all of which may be viewable online for a filer:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16514699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16514699", "title": "Trinity College Library", "text": "Trinity College Library\n\nThe Library of Trinity College Dublin () serves Trinity College and the University of Dublin. It is a legal deposit or \"copyright library\", which means that publishers in Ireland must deposit a copy of all their publications in the library, free of charge. It is also the only Irish library to hold such rights for the United Kingdom. The Library is the permanent home to the Brian Boru harp which is a national symbol of Ireland, a copy of 1916 Proclamation of the Irish Republic, and the Book of Kells. Two of the four volumes of the Book of Kells are on public display, one opened to a major decorated page and the other to a typical page of text. The volumes and pages shown are regularly changed. Members of the University of Dublin also have access to the libraries of Tallaght Hospital and the Irish School of Ecumenics, Milltown.\n\nThe Library proper occupies several buildings, four of which are at the Trinity College campus itself, with another part of the Trinity Centre at St. James's Hospital, Dublin:\n\nFurther materials are held in storage in Stacks, either in closed access within College or at a book depository in the Dublin suburb of Santry.\n\nThe Library began with the founding of Trinity College in 1592. In 1661, Henry Jones presented it with the Book of Kells, its most famous manuscript. James Ussher (1625–56), Archbishop of Armagh, whose most important works were \"Veterum Epistolarum Hibernicarum Sylloge\" (1632) and \"Brittanicarum Ecclesiarum Antiquitates\" (1639), left his valuable library, comprising several thousand printed books and manuscripts, to the Library. His complete works were published by the Library in twenty-four volumes.\n\nIn 1801, the Library was given legal deposit rights, making it the only library in Ireland to have such rights for the United Kingdom at that time. \n\nAccording to the Republic of Ireland's Copyright and Related Rights Act, 2000, the Library is entitled, along with the National Library of Ireland and the libraries of the National University of Ireland, the University of Limerick, and Dublin City University, to receive a copy of all works published in the Republic of Ireland. Also, as a result of the British Legal Deposit Libraries Act 2003, which continues a more ancient right dating from 1801, the Library is entitled, along with the British Library, the Bodleian Library at Oxford, Cambridge University Library, the National Library of Wales and the National Library of Scotland, to receive a copy on request of all works published in the United Kingdom.\n\nThe main chamber of the Old Library, the Long Room, was built between 1712 and 1732 and houses 200,000 of the Library's oldest books. Initially, The Long Room had a flat ceiling, shelving for books only on the lower level, and an open gallery. By the 1850s the room had to be expanded as the shelves were filled due to the fact that the Library had been given permission to obtain a free copy of every book that had been published in Ireland and Britain. In 1860, The Long Room's roof was raised to accommodate an upper gallery.\nThe Long Room is lined with marble busts. The marble bust collection was formed when 14 busts from the sculptor Peter Scheemakers were acquired by the college. Many of the busts are of great philosophers, writers, and men who supported the college. The most outstanding bust in the collection is of the writer Jonathan Swift, created by Louis François Roubiliac.\n\nThe Long Room also holds one of the last remaining copies of the 1916 Proclamation of the Irish Republic. This proclamation was read by Patrick Pearse near the General Post Office on 24 April 1916. Visitors may also view the Trinity College harp (also known as the \"Brian Boru harp\") in The Long Room that is the oldest of its kind in Ireland dating back to the 15th century. The harp is made out of oak and willow and includes 29 brass strings.\n\nThe Jedi archives of the Jedi Temple in the movie \"\" bear a startling resemblance to the Long Room of the Trinity College Library. This resemblance resulted in controversy as permission had not been sought to use the building's likeness in the film. However, Lucasfilm denied that the Long Room was the basis for the Jedi archives, and officials from Trinity College Library decided not to take any legal action.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6523576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6523576", "title": "Who Makes Movies?", "text": "Who Makes Movies?\n\nWho Makes Movies? was a propaganda campaign run jointly by several international associations looking to crack down on copyright infringement of motion pictures, most notably the MPAA, as part of the larger \"Respect Copyrights\" campaign. The campaign was endorsed by several motion picture workers' guilds, including the Directors Guild of America, the International Alliance of Theatrical Stage Employees, Moving Picture Technicians, Artists and Allied Crafts, the Motion Picture Editors Guild, the Screen Actors Guild and the Writers Guild of America.\n\nFive short films were created, each profiling the work done by primarily blue-collar workers in the production of a feature film. These films were shown as movie trailers in large movie theaters, and were also made available on the website \"respectcopyrights.org\".\n\nThe films profile:\nIn addition to explaining their jobs, the worker gives details about their life to the viewer. For example, the set painter declares \"I met my wife when I did \"The Big Chill\".\" The worker then appeals to the viewer to not download movies as it reduces the income of ordinary, common workers. It is an attempt to dispel the concept that copyright infringement only reduces the profits of large, faceless movie studios and rich movie stars. One problem raised with the spots is that blue collar workers highlighted are typically paid hourly or daily and do not share in movie profit participation.\n\nThe campaign attempts to appeal to a consumer's compassion, much in the same way that the \"Home Taping is Killing Music\" campaign appealed to the consumer's interest in the art form.\n\nSome critics found the tone of the ads to be disingenuous, and \"holier-than-thou\". Some also pointed out that advertising as a movie trailer was targeting the people who were already paying to see movies, and added to the growing inconveniences associated with attending movies in person.\n\nThe ads inspired many parodies, including:\n"}
{"id": "50956", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50956", "title": "Witness", "text": "Witness\n\nA witness is someone who has, who claims to have, or is thought, by someone with authority to compel testimony, to have knowledge relevant to an event or other matter of interest. In law a witness is someone who, either voluntarily or under compulsion, provides testimonial evidence, either oral or written, of what he or she knows or claims to know about the matter before some official authorized to take such testimony.\n\nA percipient witness or \"eyewitness\" is one who testifies what they perceived through his or her senses (e.g.: seeing, hearing, smelling, touching). That perception might be either with the unaided human sense or with the aid of an instrument, e.g.: microscope or stethoscope, or by other scientific means, e.g.: a chemical reagent which changes color in the presence of a particular substance.\n\nA \"hearsay\" witness is one who testifies what someone else said or wrote. In most court proceedings there are many limitations on when hearsay evidence is admissible. Such limitations do not apply to grand jury investigations, many administrative proceedings, and may not apply to declarations used in support of an arrest or search warrant. Also some types of statements are not deemed to be hearsay and are not subject to such limitations.\n\nAn \"expert witness\" is one who allegedly has specialized knowledge relevant to the matter of interest, which knowledge purportedly helps to either make sense of other evidence, including other testimony, documentary evidence or physical evidence (e.g., a fingerprint). An expert witness may or may not also be a percipient witness, as in a doctor or may or may not have treated the victim of an accident or crime.\n\nA \"reputation witness\" is one who testifies about the reputation of a person or business entity, when reputation is material to the dispute at issue. They are a person who aids that because of a persons interactions and personality the defendant is guilty/innocent\n\nIn law a witness might be compelled to provide testimony in court, before a grand jury, before an administrative tribunal, before a deposition officer, or in a variety of other proceedings (e.g., judgment debtor examination). Sometimes the testimony is provided in public or in a confidential setting (e.g., grand jury or closed court proceeding).\n\nAlthough informally a witness includes whoever perceived the event, in law, a witness is different from an informant. A \"confidential informant\" is someone who claimed to have witnessed an event or have hearsay information, but whose identity is being withheld from at least one party (typically the criminal defendant). The information from the confidential informant may have been used by a police officer or other official acting as a hearsay witness to obtain a search warrant.\n\nA \"subpoena\" commands a person to appear. It is used to compel the testimony of a witness in a trial. Usually, it can be issued by a judge or by the lawyer representing the plaintiff or the defendant in a civil trial or by the prosecutor or the defense attorney in a criminal proceeding. In many jurisdictions, it is compulsory to comply, to take an oath, and to tell the truth, under penalty of perjury.\n\nIn a court proceeding, a witness may be \"called\" (requested to testify) by either the prosecution or the defense. The side that calls the witness first asks questions in what is called direct examination. The opposing side then may ask their own questions in what is called cross-examination. In some cases, redirect examination may be used by the side that called the witness but usually only to contradict specific testimony from the cross-examination.\n\nRecalling a witness means calling a witness, who has already given testimony in a proceeding, to give further testimony. A court may give leave to a party to recall a witness only to give evidence about a matter adduced by another party if the second party's testimony contradicts evidence given by the original witness on direct examination.\n\nWitnesses are usually permitted to testify only what they experienced first-hand. In most cases, they may not testify about something they were told (hearsay). That restriction does not apply to expert witnesses, but they may testify only in the area of their expertise.\n\nEyewitness testimony is generally presumed to be more reliable than circumstantial evidence. Studies have shown, however, that individual, separate witness testimony is often flawed, and parts of it can be meaningless. That can occur because of flaws in eyewitness identification (such as faulty observation and recollection, or bias) or because a witness is lying. If several people witness a crime, it is probative to look for similarities in their collective descriptions to substantiate the facts of an event but to keep in mind the contrasts between individual descriptions.\n\nOne study involved an experiment, in which subjects acted as jurors in a criminal case. Jurors heard a description of a robbery-murder, a prosecution argument, and then an argument for the defense. Some jurors heard only circumstantial evidence; others heard from a clerk who claimed to identify the defendant. In the former case, 18% percent found the defendant guilty, but in the latter case, 72% found the defendant guilty (Loftus 1988).\n\nPolice lineups in which the eyewitness picks out a suspect from a group of people in the police station are often grossly suggestive, and they give the false impression that the witness remembered the suspect. In another study, students watched a staged crime. An hour later they looked through photos. A week later they were asked to pick the suspect out of lineups. 8% of the people in the lineups were mistakenly identified as criminals. 20% of the innocent people whose photographs were included were mistakenly identified (University of Nebraska 1977).\n\nWeapon focus effects in which the presence of a weapon impairs memory for surrounding details is also an issue.\n\nAnother study looked at 65 cases of \"erroneous criminal convictions of innocent people.\" In 45% of the cases, eyewitness mistakes were responsible.\n\nThe formal study of eyewitness memory is usually undertaken within the broader category of cognitive processes, the different ways in which we make sense of the world around us. That is done by employing the mental skills at one's disposal like thinking, perception, memory, awareness, reasoning, and judgment. Although cognitive processes can be only inferred and cannot be seen directly, they all have very important practical implications within a legal context.\n\nIf one were to accept that the way people think, perceive, reason, and judge is not always perfect, it becomes easier to understand why cognitive processes and the factors influencing the processes are studied by psychologists in matters of law, one being the grave implications that this imperfection can have within the criminal justice system.\n\nThe study of witness memory has dominated the realm of investigation. As Huff and Rattner note, the single most important factor contributing to wrongful conviction is eyewitness misidentification.\n\nSeveral factors affect witnesses' credibility. Generally, they are deemed to be credible if they are recognized (or can be recognized) as a source of reliable information about someone, an event, or a phenomenon. As an example, the 2009 arrest of an illegal immigrant from El Salvador in the murder of federal intern Chandra Levy saw many questions arise surrounding the credibility of various witnesses. Contesting the credibility of so-called \"expert\" witnesses rose into more common practice in the 1860s and 1870s.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2204847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2204847", "title": "Yale Review of Law and Social Action", "text": "Yale Review of Law and Social Action\n\nThe Yale Review of Law and Social Action was a student-edited quarterly that was published by Yale University from 1970 to 1973. Hillary Rodham served on its Board of Editors and was an associate editor while attending Yale Law School.\n"}
