{"id": "15687833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15687833", "title": "Alexander Crombie", "text": "Alexander Crombie\n\nThe Rev Dr Alexander Crombie (17 July 1762 Aberdeen – 11 June 1840, York Terrace, Regent's Park, London, England) was a Presbyterian minister, schoolmaster and philosopher.\n\nHe studied at Marischal College, Aberdeen under James Beattie, gaining a MA. About 1798, he gained a LLD. He moved in the early 19th century to the London area, where he ran a school in Highgate and then one in Greenwich, Kent.\n\nBy 1822, he was resident in the fashionable Regent's Park area of London, but he inherited a substantial property in Scotland - Thornton Castle near Phesdo.\n\nHe died in York Terrace, London on 11 June 1840 and was buried at St Marylebone Church.\n\nCrombie was married at least twice:\n\nBy his first marriage, he had a son:\n\nHe remarried, on 6 March 1798, at Cluny, Aberdeenshire, to Jane Nory (c. 1773–1859); the couple had children including:\n\n"}
{"id": "700", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=700", "title": "Arthur Schopenhauer", "text": "Arthur Schopenhauer\n\nArthur Schopenhauer ( ; ; 22 February 1788 – 21 September 1860) was a German philosopher. He is best known for his 1818 work \"The World as Will and Representation\" (expanded in 1844), wherein he characterizes the phenomenal world as the product of a blind and insatiable metaphysical will. Proceeding from the transcendental idealism of Immanuel Kant, Schopenhauer developed an atheistic metaphysical and ethical system that has been described as an exemplary manifestation of philosophical pessimism, rejecting the contemporaneous post-Kantian philosophies of German idealism. Schopenhauer was among the first thinkers in Western philosophy to share and affirm significant tenets of Eastern philosophy (e.g., asceticism, the world-as-appearance), having initially arrived at similar conclusions as the result of his own philosophical work.\n\nThough his work failed to garner substantial attention during his life, Schopenhauer has had a posthumous impact across various disciplines, including philosophy, literature, and science. His writing on aesthetics, morality, and psychology influenced thinkers and artists throughout the 19th and 20th centuries. Those who cited his influence include Friedrich Nietzsche, Richard Wagner, Leo Tolstoy, Ludwig Wittgenstein, Erwin Schrödinger, Otto Rank, Gustav Mahler, Joseph Campbell, Albert Einstein, Carl Jung, Thomas Mann, Émile Zola, George Bernard Shaw, Jorge Luis Borges and Samuel Beckett.\n\nSchopenhauer was born on 22 February 1788, in the city of Danzig (then part of the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth; present day Gdańsk, Poland) on Heiligegeistgasse (known in the present day as Św. Ducha 47), the son of Johanna Schopenhauer (née Trosiener) and Heinrich Floris Schopenhauer, both descendants of wealthy German-Dutch patrician families. Both of them weren't very religious, supported the French Revolution, were republican, cosmopolitan and Anglophile. When Danzig became part of Prussia in 1793, Heinrich moved to Hamburg - a free city with republican constitution, protected by Britain and Holland against Prussian aggression - although his firm continued trading in Danzig where most of their extended families remained. Adele, Arthur's only sibling was born on 12 July 1797.\n\nIn 1797 Arthur was sent to Le Havre to live for two years with the family of his father's business associate, Grégoire de Blésimaire. He seemed to enjoy his stay there, learned to speak French fluently and started a friendship with Jean Anthime Grégoire de Blésimaire, his peer, which lasted for a large part of their lives. As early as 1799, Arthur started playing the flute. In 1803 he joined his parents on their long tour of Holland, Britain, France, Switzerland, Austria and Prussia; it was mostly a pleasure tour although Heinrich also visited some of his business associates. Heinrich gave his son a choice - he could stay at home and start preparations for university education, or he could travel with them and then continue his merchant education. Arthur would later deeply regret his choice because he found his merchant training tedious. He spent twelve weeks of the tour attending a school in Wimbledon where he was very unhappy and appalled by very strict but intellectually shallow Anglican religiosity which he would continue to sharply criticize later in life despite his general Anglophilia. He was also under great pressure from his father who became very critical of his educational results. In fact Heinrich Floris became so fussy that even his wife started to doubt his mental health.\n\nIn 1805, Heinrich Floris died by drowning in a canal by their home in Hamburg. Although it was possible that his death was accident, his wife and son believed that it was suicide because he was very prone to unsociable behavior, anxiety and depression which became especially pronounced in his last months of life. Arthur showed similar moodiness since his youth and often acknowledged that he inherited it from his father; there were also several other instances of serious mental health issues on his father's side of family. His mother Johanna was generally described as vivacious and sociable. Despite the hardships, Schopenhauer seemed to like his father and later mentioned him always in a positive light. Heinrich Schopenhauer left the family with a decent inheritance that was split in three among Johanna and the children. Arthur Schopenhauer would be entitled to control of his part when he reached the age of majority. He invested it conservatively in government bonds and earned annual interest that was more than double the salary of a university professor.\nArthur endured two long years of drudgery as a merchant in honor of his dead father, and because of his own doubts about being too old to start a life of a scholar. Most of his prior education was practical merchant training and he had some trouble with learning Latin which was a prerequisite for any academic career. His mother soon moved with his sister Adele to Weimar—then the centre of German literature—to enjoy social life among celebrated writers and artists. Arthur lived in Hamburg with his friend Jean Anthime who was also studying to become a merchant.\n\nAfter quitting his merchant apprenticeship, with some encouragement from his mother, he dedicated himself to studies at the Gotha gymnasium () in Saxe-Gotha-Altenburg, but he also enjoyed social life among local nobility spending large amounts of money which caused concern to his frugal mother. He left Gymnasium after writing a satirical poem about one of the lecturers. Although Arthur claimed that he left voluntarily, his mother's letter indicates that he was expelled.\n\nHe moved to Weimar but didn't live with his mother who even tried to discourage him from coming by explaining that they wouldn't get along very well. Their relationship deteriorated even further due to their temperamental differences. He accused his mother of being financially irresponsible, flirtatious and seeking to remarry, which he considered an insult to his father's memory. His mother, while professing her love to him, criticized him sharply for being moody, tactless, and argumentative—and urged him to improve his behavior so he would not alienate people. Arthur concentrated on his studies which were now going very well and he also enjoyed the usual social life such as balls, parties and theater. By that time Johanna's famous salon was well established among local intellectuals and dignitaries, most celebrated of them being Goethe. Arthur attended her parties, usually when he knew that Goethe would be there—though the famous writer and statesman didn't even seem to notice the young and unknown student. It is possible that Goethe kept distance because Johanna warned him about her son's depressive and combative nature, or because Goethe was then on bad terms with Arthur's language instructor and roommate, Franz Passow. Schopenhauer was also captivated by the beautiful Karoline Jagemann, mistress of Karl August, Grand Duke of Saxe-Weimar-Eisenach, and he wrote to her his only known love poem. Despite his later celebration of asceticism and negative views of sexuality, Schopenhauer occasionally had sexual affairs, usually with women of lower social status, such as servants, actresses, and sometimes even paid prostitutes. In a letter to his friend Anthime he claims that such affairs continued even in his mature age and admits that he had two out-of-wedlock daughters (born in 1819 and 1836), both of whom died in infancy. In their youthful correspondence Arthur and Anthime were somewhat boastful and competitive about their sexual exploits—but Schopenhauer seemed aware that women usually didn’t find him very charming or physically attractive, and his desires often remained unfulfilled.\n\nHe left Weimar to become a student at the University of Göttingen in 1809. There are no written reasons about why Schopenhauer chose that university instead of then more famous University of Jena but Göttingen was known as a more modern, scientifically oriented, with less attention given to theology. Law or medicine were usual choices for young men of Schopenhauer's status who also needed career and income; he choose medicine due to his scientific interests. Among his notable professors were Bernhard Friedrich Thibaut, Arnold Hermann Ludwig Heeren, Johann Friedrich Blumenbach, Friedrich Stromeyer, Heinrich Adolf Schrader, Johann Tobias Mayer and Konrad Johann Martin Langenbeck. He studied metaphysics, psychology and logic under Gottlob Ernst Schulze, the author of \"Aenesidemus\", who made a strong impression and advised him to concentrate on Plato and Immanuel Kant. He decided to switch from medicine to philosophy around 1810-11 and he left Göttingen which didn't have a strong philosophy program (besides Schulze the only other philosophy professor was Friedrich Bouterwek whom Schopenhauer disliked). He didn't regret his medicinal and scientific studies. He claimed that they were necessary for a philosopher, and even in Berlin he attended more lectures in sciences than in philosophy. During his days at Göttingen, he spent a lot of time studying, but also continued his flute playing and social life. His friends included Friedrich Gotthilf Osann, Karl Witte, Christian Charles Josias von Bunsen, and William Backhouse Astor Sr..\n\nHe arrived to the newly founded University of Berlin for the winter semester of 1811-12. At the same time his mother just started her literary career; she published her first book in 1810, a biography of her friend Karl Ludwig Fernow, which was a critical success. Arthur attended lectures by the prominent post-Kantian philosopher Johann Gottlieb Fichte but quickly found many points of disagreement with his \"Wissenschaftslehre\" and he also found his lectures tedious and hard to understand. He later mentioned Fichte only in critical, negative terms—seeing his philosophy as a lower quality version of Kant's and considering it useful only because Fichte's poor arguments unintentionally highlighted some failings of Kantianism. He also attended the lectures of the famous theologian Friedrich Schleiermacher whom he also quickly came to dislike. His notes and comments on Schleiermacher's lectures show that Schopenhauer was becoming very critical of religion and moving towards atheism. He learned a lot by self-directed reading; besides Plato, Kant and Fichte he also read the works of Schelling, Fries, Jacobi, Bacon, Locke, and a lot of current scientific literature. He attended philological courses by August Böckh and Friedrich August Wolf and continued his naturalistic interests with courses by Martin Heinrich Klaproth, Paul Erman, Johann Elert Bode, Ernst Gottfried Fischer, Johann Horkel, Friedrich Christian Rosenthal and Hinrich Lichtenstein (Lichtenstein was also a friend whom he met at one of his mother's parties in Weimar).\n\nSchopenhauer left Berlin in a rush in 1813 fearing that the city could be attacked and that he could be pressed into military service as Prussia just joined the war against France. He returned to Weimar but left after less than a month disgusted by the fact that his mother was now living with her supposed lover, Georg Friedrich Conrad Ludwig Müller von Gerstenbergk, a civil servant fourteen years younger than her; he considered the relationship an act of infidelity to his father's memory. He settled for a while in Rudolstadt hoping that no army would pass through the small town. He spent his time in solitude, hiking in the mountains and the Thuringian forest and writing his dissertation, \"On the Fourfold Root of the Principle of Sufficient Reason\". He completed his dissertation at about the same time as the French army was defeated at the Battle of Leipzig. He became irritated by the arrival of soldiers to the town and accepted his mother's invitation to visit her in Weimar. She tried to convince him that her relationship with Gerstenbergk was platonic and that she had no intentions of remarrying. But Schopenhauer remained suspicious and often came in conflict with Gerstenbergk because he considered him untalented, pretentious, and nationalistic. His mother just published her second book, \"Reminiscences of a Journey in the Years 1803, 1804, and 1805\", a description of their family tour of Europe, which quickly became a hit. She found his dissertation incomprehensible and said it was unlikely that anyone would ever buy a copy. In a fit of temper Arthur told her that people would read his work long after the \"rubbish\" she wrote was totally forgotten. In fact, although they considered her novels of dubious quality, the Brockhaus publishing firm held her in high esteem because they consistently sold well. Hans Brockhaus (1888-1965) later claimed that his predecessors \"...saw nothing in this manuscript, but wanted to please one of our best-selling authors by publishing her son's work. We published more and more of her son Arthur's work and today nobody remembers Johanna, but her son's works are in steady demand and contribute to Brockhaus'[s] reputation.\" He kept large portraits of the pair in his office in Leipzig for the edification of his new editors.\n\nAlso contrary to his mother's prediction, Schopenhauer's dissertation made an impression on Goethe to whom he sent it as a gift. Although it is doubtful that Goethe agreed with Schopenhauer's philosophical positions he was impressed by his intellect and extensive scientific education. Their subsequent meetings and correspondence were a great honor to a young philosopher who was finally acknowledged by his intellectual hero. They mostly discussed Goethe's newly published (and somewhat lukewarmly received) work on color theory. Schopenhauer soon started writing his own treatise on the subject, \"On Vision and Colors\", which in many points differed from his teacher's. Although they remained polite towards each other, their growing theoretical disagreements – and especially Schopenhauer's tactless criticisms and extreme self-confidence – soon made Goethe become distant again and after 1816 their correspondence became less frequent. Schopenhauer later admitted that he was greatly hurt by this rejection, but he continued to praise Goethe, and considered his color theory a great introduction to his own.\n\nAnother important experience during his stay in Weimar was his acquaintance with Friedrich Majer – a historian of religion, orientalist and disciple of Herder – who introduced him to the Eastern philosophy. Schopenhauer was immediately impressed by the \"Upanishads\" and the Buddha and put them at par with Plato and Kant. He continued his studies by reading the \"Bhagavad Gita\", an amateurish German journal \"Asiatisches Magazin\" and \"Asiatick Researches\" by The Asiatic Society. Although he loved Hindu texts he was more interested in Buddhism which he came to regard as the best religion. However, his early studies were constrained by the lack of adequate literature, and were mostly restricted to Early Buddhism. He also claimed that he formulated most of his ideas independently, and only later realized the similarities with Buddhism.\nAs the relationship with his mother fell to a new low he left Weimar and moved to Dresden in May 1814. He continued his philosophical studies, enjoyed the cultural life, socialized with intellectuals and engaged in sexual affairs. His friends in Dresden were Johann Gottlob von Quandt, Friedrich Laun, Karl Christian Friedrich Krause and Ludwig Sigismund Ruhl, a young painter who made a romanticized portrait of him in which he improved some of Schopenhauer's unattractive physical features. His criticisms of local artists occasionally caused public quarrels when he ran into them in public. However, his main occupation during his stay in Dresden was his seminal philosophical work, \"The World as Will and Representation\", which he started writing in 1814 and finished in 1818. He was recommended to Friedrich Arnold Brockhaus by Baron Ferdinand von Biedenfeld, an acquaintance of his mother. Although the publisher accepted his manuscript, Schopenhauer made a poor impression because of his quarrelsome and fussy attitude and very poor sales of the book after it was published in December 1818.\n\nIn September 1818, while waiting for his book to be published and conveniently escaping an affair with a maid that caused an unwanted pregnancy, Schopenhauer left Dresden for a yearlong vacation in Italy. He visited Venice, Bologna, Florence, Naples and Milan, travelling alone or accompanied by mostly English tourists he met. He spent winter months in Rome where he accidentally met his acquaintance Karl Witte and engaged in numerous quarrels with German tourists in Caffe Greco, among them Johann Friedrich Böhmer who also mentioned his insulting remarks and unpleasant character. He enjoyed art, architecture, ancient ruins, attended plays and operas, continued his philosophical contemplation and love affairs. One of his affairs supposedly became serious, and for a while he contemplated marriage to a rich Italian noblewoman—but despite his mentioning this several times, no details are known and it may have been Schopenhauer exaggerating. He corresponded regularly with his sister Adele and became close to her as her relationship with Johanna and Gerstenbergk also deteriorated. She informed him about their financial troubles as the banking house of A. L. Muhl in Danzig – in which her mother invested their whole savings and Arthur a third of his – was near bankruptcy. Arthur offered to share his assets but his mother refused and became further enraged by his insulting comments. The women managed to receive only thirty percent of their savings while Arthur, using his business knowledge, took a suspicious and aggressive stance towards the banker and eventually received his part in full. The affair additionally worsened the relationships among all three members of Schopenhauer family.\n\nHe shortened his stay in Italy because of the trouble with Muhl and returned to Dresden. Disturbed by the financial risk and the lack of responses to his book he decided to take an academic position since it provided him both with income and the opportunity to promote his views. He contacted his friends at universities in Heidelberg, Göttingen and Berlin and found Berlin most attractive. He scheduled his lectures to coincide with those of the famous philosopher G. W. F. Hegel, whom Schopenhauer described as a \"clumsy charlatan\". He was especially appalled by Hegel's supposedly poor knowledge of natural sciences and tried to engage him in a quarrel about it already at his test lecture in March 1820. Hegel was also facing political suspicions at the time when many progressive professors were fired, while Schopenhauer carefully mentioned in his application that he had no interest in politics. Despite their differences and the arrogant request to schedule lectures at the same time as his own, Hegel still voted to accept Schopenhauer to the university. However, only five students turned up to Schopenhauer's lectures, and he dropped out of academia. A late essay, \"On University Philosophy\", expressed his resentment towards the work conducted in academies.\n\nAfter his academic failure he continued to travel extensively, visiting Leipzig, Nuremberg, Stuttgart, Schaffhausen, Vevey, Milan and spending eight months in Florence. However, before he left for his three-year travel, he had an incident with his Berlin neighbor, forty-seven-year-old seamstress Caroline Louise Marquet. The details of the August 1821 incident are unknown. He claimed that he just pushed her from his entrance after she rudely refused to leave, and she purposely fell on the ground so she could sue him. She claimed that he attacked her so violently that she had become paralyzed on her right side and unable to work. She immediately sued him, and the process lasted until May 1827, when a court found Schopenhauer guilty and forced him to pay her an annual pension until her death in 1842.\n\nSchopenhauer enjoyed Italy, where he studied art and socialized with Italian and English nobles. It was his last visit to the country. He left for Munich and stayed there for a year, mostly recuperating from various health issues, some of them possibly caused by venereal diseases (the treatment his doctor used suggests syphilis). He contacted publishers offering to translate Hume into German and Kant into English but his proposals were declined. Returning to Berlin he began to study Spanish in order to read some of his favorite authors in their original language. He liked Pedro Calderón de la Barca, Lope de Vega, Miguel de Cervantes, and especially Baltasar Gracián. He also made failed attempts to publish his translations of their works. Few attempts to revive his lectures – again scheduled at the same time as Hegel's – also failed, as did his inquiries about relocating to other universities.\n\nDuring his Berlin years Schopenhauer occasionally mentioned his desire to marry and have a family. For a while he was unsuccessfully courting 17-year-old Flora Weiss, who was 22 years younger than him. His unpublished writings from that time show that he was already very critical of monogamy but still not advocating polygyny – instead musing about a polyamorous relationship he called \"tetragamy\". He had an on and off relationship with a young dancer Caroline Richter (she also used surname Medon after one of her ex-lovers). They met when he was 33 and she was 19 and working at the Berlin Opera. She already had numerous lovers and an out-of-wedlock son, and later gave birth to another son, this time to an unnamed foreign diplomat. (She soon had another pregnancy but it was stillborn). As Schopenhauer was preparing to escape Berlin in 1831, due to cholera epidemic, he offered to take her with him on the condition that she leaves her young son. She refused and he went alone; in his will he left her a significant sum of money but insisted that it should not be in any way spent on her second son.\n\nSchopenhauer claimed that in his last year in Berlin he had a prophetic dream which urged him to escape the city. As he arrived in his new home in Frankfurt he supposedly had another supernatural experience, an apparition of his dead father and his mother who was still alive. This experience led him to spend some time investigating paranormal phenomena and magic. He was quite critical of the available studies and claimed that they were mostly ignorant or fraudulent, but he did believe that there are authentic cases of such phenomena and tried to explain them through his metaphysics as manifestations of the will.\n\nUpon his arrival in Frankfurt he experienced a period of depression and declining health. He renewed his correspondence with his mother, and she seemed concerned that he might commit suicide like his father. By now Johanna and Adele were living very modestly. Johanna's writing didn’t bring her much income, and her popularity was waning. Their correspondence remained reserved, and Arthur Schopenhauer seemed undisturbed by her death in 1838. His relationship with his sister grew closer and he corresponded with her until she died in 1849.\n\nIn July 1832 Schopenhauer left Frankfurt for Mannheim but returned in July 1833 to remain there for the rest of his life, except for a few short journeys. He lived alone except for a succession of pet poodles named Atman and Butz. In 1836, he published \"On the Will in Nature\". In 1836 he sent his essay \"On the Freedom of the Will\" to the contest of the \"Royal Norwegian Society of Sciences\" and won the prize next year. He sent another essay, \"On the Basis of Morality\", to the \"Royal Danish Society for Scientific Studies\" but didn’t win the prize despite being the only contestant. The Society was appalled that several distinguished contemporary philosophers were mentioned in a very offensive manner, claimed that the essay missed the point and that the arguments were not adequate. Schopenhauer, who was very self-confident that he will win, was enraged by this rejection. He published both essays as \"The Two Basic Problems of Ethics\" and in the preface to the second edition of this book, in 1860, he was still pouring insults on Royal Danish Society. First edition, published in 1841, again failed to draw attention to his philosophy. Two years later, after some negotiations, he managed to convince his publisher, Brockhaus, to print the second, updated edition of \"The World as Will and Representation\". The book was again mostly ignored and few reviews were mixed or negative. \nHowever, Schopenhauer did start to attract some followers, mostly outside academia, among practical professionals (several of them were lawyers) who pursued private philosophical studies. He jokingly referred to them as \"evangelists\" and \"apostles\". One of the most active early followers was Julius Frauenstädt who wrote numerous articles promoting Schopenhauer's philosophy. He was also instrumental in finding another publisher after Brockhaus refused to publish \"Parerga and Paralipomena\" believing that it would be another failure. Though Schopenhauer later stopped corresponding with him, claiming that he did not adhere closely enough to his ideas, Frauenstädt continued to promote Schopehnauer's work. They renewed their communication in 1859 and Schopenhauer named him heir for his literary estate. He also became the editor of the first collected works of Schopenhauer.\n\nIn 1848 Schopenhauer witnessed violent upheaval in Frankfurt after General Hans Adolf Erdmann von Auerswald and Prince Felix Lichnowsky were murdered. He became worried for his own safety and property. Even earlier in life he had such worries and kept a sword and loaded pistols near his bed to defend himself from thieves. He gave a friendly welcome to Austrian soldiers who wanted to shoot revolutionaries from his window and as they were leaving he gave one of the officers his opera glasses to help him monitor rebels. The rebellion passed without any loss to Schopenhauer and he later praised Alfred I, Prince of Windisch-Grätz for restoring order. He even modified his will, leaving a large part of his property to a Prussian fund that helped soldiers who became invalids while fighting rebellion in 1848 or the families of soldiers who died in battle. As Young Hegelians were advocating change and progress Schopenhauer claimed that misery is natural for humans—and that even if some utopian society were established, people would still fight each other out of boredom, or would starve due to overpopulation.\nIn 1851 Schopenhauer published \"Parerga and Paralipomena\", which, as the title says, contains essays that are supplementary to his main work, and are mostly comprehensible to readers unfamiliar with his earlier philosophy. It was his first successful, widely read book, partly due to the work of his disciples who wrote praising reviews. The essays that proved most popular were the ones that actually didn’t contain the basic philosophical ideas of his system. Many academic philosophers considered him a great stylist and cultural critic but didn’t take his philosophy seriously. His early critics liked to point out similarities of his ideas to those Fichte and Schelling, or claim that there are numerous contradictions in his philosophy. Both criticisms enraged Schopenhauer. However, he was becoming less interested in intellectual fights, but encouraged his disciples to do so. His private notes and correspondence show that he acknowledged some of the criticisms regarding contradictions, inconsistencies, and vagueness in his philosophy, but claimed that he wasn’t concerned about harmony and agreement in his propositions and that some of his ideas shouldn’t be taken literally but instead as metaphors.\n\nAcademic philosophers were also starting to notice his work. In 1856 University of Leipzig sponsored an essay contest about Schopenhauer's philosophy which was won by Rudolf Seydel’s very critical essay. Schopenhauer's friend Jules Lunteschütz made a first of his four portraits of him – which Schopenhauer didn’t particularly like – that was soon sold to a wealthy landowner Carl Ferdinand Wiesike who built a house to display it. Schopenhauer seemed flattered and amused by this, and would claim that it was his first chapel. As his fame increased copies of his paintings and photographs were being sold and admirers were visiting the places where he lived and wrote his works. People visited Frankfurt's \"Englischer Hof\" to observe him dining. Admirers gave him gifts and asked for autographs. He complained, however, that he still felt isolated due to his not very social nature and the fact that many of his good friends already died from old age.\nHe remained healthy in his old age which he attributed to regular walks no matter the weather, and always getting enough sleep. He had a great appetite and could read without glasses but his hearing was declining since his youth and he developed problems with rheumatism. He remained active and lucid, continued his reading, writing and correspondences until his death. The numerous notes that he made during these years, amongst others on aging, were published posthumously under the title \"Senilia\". In the spring of 1860 his health started to decline, he experienced shortness of breath and heart palpitations; in September he suffered inflammation of the lungs and although he was starting to recover he remained very weak. His last friend to visit him was Wilhelm Gwinner and according to him Schopenhauer was concerned that he won’t be able to finish his planned additions to \"Parerga and Paralipomena\" but was at peace with dying. He died of pulmonary-respiratory failure, on 21 September 1860 while sitting at home on his couch. He was 72.\n\nSchopenhauer saw his philosophy as a continuation of that of Kant, and used the results of his epistemological investigations, that is, transcendental idealism, as starting point for his own:\n\nKant had argued the empirical world is merely a complex of appearances whose existence and connection occur only in our representations. Schopenhauer reiterates this in the first sentence of his main work: \"The world is my representation.\" We do not draw empirical laws from nature, but prescribe them to it.\n\nSchopenhauer praises Kant for his distinction between appearance and the things-in-themselves that appear, whereas the general consensus in German Idealism was that this was the weakest spot of Kant's theory, since according to Kant causality can find application on objects of experience only, and consequently, things-in-themselves cannot be the cause of appearances, as Kant argued. The inadmissibility of this reasoning was also acknowledged by Schopenhauer. He insisted that this distinction was a true conclusion, drawn from false premises.\n\nIn November 1813 Goethe invited Schopenhauer for research on his Theory of Colours. Although Schopenhauer considered colour theory a minor matter, he accepted the invitation out of admiration for Goethe. Nevertheless, these investigations led him to his most important discovery in epistemology: finding a demonstration for the a priori nature of causality.\n\nKant openly admitted that it was Hume's skeptical assault on causality that motivated the critical investigations of \"Critique of Pure Reason\". In it, he gives an elaborate proof to show that causality is given a priori. After G.E. Schulze had made it plausible that Kant had not disproven Hume's skepticism, it was up to those loyal to the project of Kant to prove this important matter.\n\nThe difference between the approach of Kant and Schopenhauer was this: Kant simply declared that the empirical content of perception is \"given\" to us from outside, an expression with which Schopenhauer often expressed his dissatisfaction. He, on the other hand, was occupied with: how do we get this empirical content of perception; how is it possible to comprehend subjective sensations \"limited to my skin\" as the objective perception of things that lie \"outside\" of me?\n\nCausality is therefore not an empirical concept drawn from objective perceptions, but objective perception presupposes knowledge of causality. Hereby Hume's skepticism is disproven.\n\nBy this intellectual operation, comprehending every effect in our sensory organs as having an external cause, the external world arises. With vision, finding the cause is essentially simplified due to light acting in straight lines. We are seldom conscious of the process, that interprets the double sensation in both eyes as coming from one object; that turns the upside down impression; and that adds depth to make from the planimetrical data stereometrical perception with distance between objects.\n\nSchopenhauer stresses the importance of the intellectual nature of perception, the senses furnish the raw material by which the intellect produces the world as representation. He set out his theory of perception for the first time in \"On Vision and Colors\", and in the subsequent editions of Fourfold Root an extensive exposition is given in § 21.\n\nSchopenhauer developed a system called metaphysical voluntarism.\n\nFor Schopenhauer, human desire was futile, illogical, directionless, and, by extension, so was all human action in the world. Einstein paraphrased his views as follows: \"Man can indeed do what he wants, but he cannot will what he wants.\" In this sense, he adhered to the Fichtean principle of idealism: \"The world is \"for\" a subject.\" This idealism so presented, immediately commits it to an ethical attitude, unlike the purely epistemological concerns of Descartes and Berkeley. To Schopenhauer, the Will is a blind force that controls not only the actions of individual, intelligent agents, but ultimately all observable phenomena—an evil to be terminated via mankind's duties: asceticism and chastity. He is credited with one of the most famous opening lines of philosophy: \"The world is my representation.\" Friedrich Nietzsche was greatly influenced by this idea of Will, although he eventually rejected it.\n\nFor Schopenhauer, human desiring, \"willing\", and craving cause suffering or pain. A temporary way to escape this pain is through aesthetic contemplation (a method comparable to Zapffe's \"Sublimation\"). Aesthetic contemplation allows one to escape this pain—albeit temporarily—because it stops one perceiving the world as mere presentation. Instead, one no longer perceives the world as an object of perception (therefore as subject to the Principle of Sufficient Grounds; time, space and causality) from which one is separated; rather one becomes one with that perception: \"one can thus no longer separate the perceiver from the perception\" (\"The World as Will and Representation\", section 34). From this immersion with the world one no longer views oneself as an individual who suffers in the world due to one's individual will but, rather, becomes a \"subject of cognition\" to a perception that is \"Pure, will-less, timeless\" (section 34) where the essence, \"ideas\", of the world are shown. Art is the practical consequence of this brief aesthetic contemplation as it attempts to depict one's immersion with the world, thus tries to depict the essence/pure ideas of the world. Music, for Schopenhauer, was the purest form of art because it was the one that depicted the will itself without it appearing as subject to the Principle of Sufficient Grounds, therefore as an individual object. According to Daniel Albright, \"Schopenhauer thought that music was the only art that did not merely copy ideas, but actually embodied the will itself\".\n\nHe deemed music a timeless, universal language comprehended everywhere, that can imbue global enthusiasm, if in possession of a significant melody.\n\nSchopenhauer's realist views on mathematics are evident in his criticism of the contemporaneous attempts to prove the parallel postulate in Euclidean geometry. Writing shortly before the discovery of hyperbolic geometry demonstrated the logical independence of the axiom—and long before the general theory of relativity revealed that it does not necessarily express a property of physical space—Schopenhauer criticized mathematicians for trying to use indirect concepts to prove what he held was directly evident from intuitive perception.\n\nThroughout his writings, Schopenhauer criticized the logical derivation of philosophies and mathematics from mere concepts, instead of from intuitive perceptions.\n\nAlthough Schopenhauer could see no justification for trying to prove Euclid's parallel postulate, he did see a reason for examining another of Euclid's axioms.\nThis follows Kant's reasoning.\n\nThe task of ethics is not to prescribe moral actions that ought to be done, but to investigate moral actions. Philosophy is always theoretical: its task to explain what is given.\n\nAccording to Kant's teaching of transcendental idealism, space and time are forms of our sensibility due to which the phenomena appear in multiplicity. Reality in itself is free from all multiplicity, not in the sense that an object is one, but that it is outside the \"possibility\" of multiplicity. From this follows that two individuals, though they appear as distinct, are in-themselves not distinct.\n\nThe appearances are entirely subordinated to the principle of sufficient reason. The egoistic individual who focuses his aims completely on his own interests has therefore to deal with empirical laws as good as he can.\n\nWhat is relevant for ethics are individuals who can act against their own self-interest. If we take for example a man who suffers when he sees his fellow men living in poverty, and consequently uses a significant part of his income to support \"their\" needs instead his \"own\" pleasures, then the simplest way to describe this is that he makes \"less distinction between himself\" and others than is usually made.\n\nRegarding how the things \"appear\" to us, the egoist is right to assert the gap between two individuals, but the altruist experiences the sufferings of others as his own. In the same way a compassionate man cannot hurt animals, though they appear as distinct from himself.\n\nWhat motivates the altruist is compassion. The sufferings of others is for him not a cold matter to which he is indifferent, but he feels connected to all beings. Compassion is thus the basis of morality.\n\nSchopenhauer calls the principle through which multiplicity appears the \"principium individuationis\". When we behold nature we see that it is a cruel battle for existence. Individual manifestations of the will can maintain themselves at only at the expense of others—the will, as the only thing that exists, has no other option but to devour itself to experience pleasure. This is a fundamental characteristic of the will, and cannot be circumvented.\n\nTormenter and tormented are one. Suffering is the moral retribution of our attachment to pleasure. Schopenhauer deemed that this truth was expressed by Christian dogma of original sin and in Eastern religions with the dogma of rebirth.\n\nHe who sees through the \"principium individuationis\" and comprehends suffering \"in general\" as his own, will see suffering everywhere, and instead of using all his force to fight for the happiness of his individual manifestation, he will abhor life itself, of which he knows how inseparably it is connected with suffering. A happy individual life midst of a world of suffering is for him like beggar who dreams one night that he is a king.\n\nThose who have experienced this intuitive knowledge can no longer affirm life, but will exhibit asceticism and quietism, meaning that they are no longer sensitive to motives, are not concerned about their individual welfare, and accept the evil others inflict on them without resisting. They welcome poverty, do not seek nor flee death.\n\nHuman life is a ceaseless struggle for satisfaction, and instead of renewing this contract, the ascetic breaks it. It matters little whether these ascetics adhered the dogmata of Christianity or Dharmic religions, since their way of living is the result of intuitive knowledge.\n\nSchopenhauer referred to asceticism as the denial of the will to live.\n\nPhilosophers have not traditionally been impressed by the tribulations of sex, but Schopenhauer addressed it and related concepts forthrightly:\n\nHe named a force within man that he felt took invariable precedence over reason: the Will to Live or Will to Life (\"Wille zum Leben\"), defined as an inherent drive within human beings, and indeed all creatures, to stay alive; a force that inveigles us into reproducing.\n\nSchopenhauer refused to conceive of love as either trifling or accidental, but rather understood it as an immensely powerful force that lay unseen within man's psyche, guaranteeing the quality of the human race:\n\nIt has often been argued that Schopenhauer's thoughts on sexuality foreshadowed the theory of evolution, a claim which seems to have been met with satisfaction by Darwin as he included a quote of the German philosopher in his Descent of Man after having read such a claim. This has also been noted about Freud's concepts of the libido and the unconscious mind, and evolutionary psychology in general.\n\nSchopenhauer's politics were, for the most part, an echo of his system of ethics (the latter being expressed in \"Die beiden Grundprobleme der Ethik\", available in English as two separate books, \"On the Basis of Morality\" and \"On the Freedom of the Will\"). Ethics also occupies about one quarter of his central work, \"The World as Will and Representation\".\n\nIn occasional political comments in his \"Parerga and Paralipomena\" and \"Manuscript Remains\", Schopenhauer described himself as a proponent of limited government. What was essential, he thought, was that the state should \"leave each man free to work out his own salvation,\" and so long as government was thus limited, he would \"prefer to be ruled by a lion than one of [his] fellow rats\"—i.e., by a monarch, rather than a democrat. Schopenhauer shared the view of Thomas Hobbes on the necessity of the state, and of state action, to check the destructive tendencies innate to our species. He also defended the independence of the legislative, judicial and executive branches of power, and a monarch as an impartial element able to practise justice (in a practical and everyday sense, not a cosmological one). He declared monarchy as \"that which is natural to man\" for \"intelligence has always under a monarchical government a much better chance against its irreconcilable and ever-present foe, stupidity\" and disparaged republicanism as \"unnatural as it is unfavourable to the higher intellectual life and the arts and sciences\".\n\nSchopenhauer, by his own admission, did not give much thought to politics, and several times he writes proudly of how little attention he had paid \"to political affairs of [his] day\". In a life that spanned several revolutions in French and German government, and a few continent-shaking wars, he did indeed maintain his aloof position of \"minding not the times but the eternities\". He wrote many disparaging remarks about Germany and the Germans. A typical example is, \"For a German it is even good to have somewhat lengthy words in his mouth, for he thinks slowly, and they give him time to reflect.\"\n\nSchopenhauer attributed civilizational primacy to the northern \"white races\" due to their sensitivity and creativity (except for the ancient Egyptians and Hindus, whom he saw as equal):\n\nThe highest civilization and culture, apart from the ancient Hindus and Egyptians, are found exclusively among the white races; and even with many dark peoples, the ruling caste or race is fairer in colour than the rest and has, therefore, evidently immigrated, for example, the Brahmans, the Incas, and the rulers of the South Sea Islands. All this is due to the fact that necessity is the mother of invention because those tribes that emigrated early to the north, and there gradually became white, had to develop all their intellectual powers and invent and perfect all the arts in their struggle with need, want and misery, which in their many forms were brought about by the climate. This they had to do in order to make up for the parsimony of nature and out of it all came their high civilization.\n\nDespite this, he was adamantly against differing treatment of races, was fervently anti-slavery, and supported the abolitionist movement in the United States. He describes the treatment of \"[our] innocent black brothers whom force and injustice have delivered into [the slave-master's] devilish clutches\" as \"belonging to the blackest pages of mankind's criminal record\".\n\nSchopenhauer additionally maintained a marked metaphysical and political anti-Judaism. Schopenhauer argued that Christianity constituted a revolt against what he styled the materialistic basis of Judaism, exhibiting an Indian-influenced ethics reflecting the Aryan-Vedic theme of spiritual self-conquest. He saw this as opposed to what he held was the ignorant drive toward earthly utopianism and superficiality of a worldly \"Jewish\" spirit:\n\nWhile all other religions endeavor to explain to the people by symbols the metaphysical significance of life, the religion of the Jews is entirely immanent and furnishes nothing but a mere war-cry in the struggle with other nations.\n\nThe State, Schopenhauer claimed, punishes criminals to prevent future crimes. It does so by placing \"beside every possible motive for committing a wrong a more powerful motive for leaving it undone, in the inescapable punishment. Accordingly, the criminal code is as complete a register as possible of counter-motives to all criminal actions that can possibly be imagined ...\" He claimed this doctrine was not original to him. Previously, it appeared in the writings of Plato, Seneca, Hobbes, Pufendorf, and Anselm Feuerbach.\n\nIn Schopenhauer's 1851 essay \"On Women\", he expressed his opposition to what he called \"Teutonico-Christian stupidity\" of reflexive unexamined reverence (\"abgeschmackten Weiberveneration\") for the female. Schopenhauer wrote that \"Women are directly fitted for acting as the nurses and teachers of our early childhood by the fact that they are themselves childish, frivolous and short-sighted.\" He opined that women are deficient in artistic faculties and sense of justice, and expressed opposition to monogamy. Indeed, Rodgers and Thompson in \"Philosophers Behaving Badly\" call Schopenhauer \"a misogynist without rival in ... Western philosophy\". He claimed that \"woman is by nature meant to obey\". The essay does give some compliments, however: that \"women are decidedly more sober in their judgment than [men] are\", and are more sympathetic to the suffering of others.\n\nSchopenhauer's writings have influenced many, from Friedrich Nietzsche to nineteenth-century feminists. Schopenhauer's biological analysis of the difference between the sexes, and their separate roles in the struggle for survival and reproduction, anticipates some of the claims that were later ventured by sociobiologists and evolutionary psychologists.\n\nWhen the elderly Schopenhauer sat for a sculpture portrait by the Prussian sculptor Elisabet Ney in 1859, he was much impressed by the young woman's wit and independence, as well as by her skill as a visual artist. After his time with Ney, he told Richard Wagner's friend Malwida von Meysenbug, \"I have not yet spoken my last word about women. I believe that if a woman succeeds in withdrawing from the mass, or rather raising herself above the mass, she grows ceaselessly and more than a man.\"\n\nSchopenhauer viewed personality and intellect as being inherited. He quotes Horace's saying, \"From the brave and good are the brave descended\" (\"Odes\", iv, 4, 29) and Shakespeare's line from \"Cymbeline\", \"Cowards father cowards, and base things sire base\" (IV, 2) to reinforce his hereditarian argument.\nMechanistically, Schopenhauer believed that a person inherits his level of intellect through his mother, and personal character through one's father. This belief in heritability of traits informed Schopenhauer's view of love – placing it at the highest level of importance. For Schopenhauer the \"final aim of all love intrigues, be they comic or tragic, is really of more importance than all other ends in human life. What it all turns upon is nothing less than the composition of the next generation. ... It is not the weal or woe of any one individual, but that of the human race to come, which is here at stake.\" This view of the importance for the species of whom we choose to love was reflected in his views on eugenics or good breeding. Here Schopenhauer wrote:\n\nWith our knowledge of the complete unalterability both of character and of mental faculties, we are led to the view that a real and thorough improvement of the human race might be reached not so much from outside as from within, not so much by theory and instruction as rather by the path of generation. Plato had something of the kind in mind when, in the fifth book of his \"Republic\", he explained his plan for increasing and improving his warrior caste. If we could castrate all scoundrels and stick all stupid geese in a convent, and give men of noble character a whole harem, and procure men, and indeed thorough men, for all girls of intellect and understanding, then a generation would soon arise which would produce a better age than that of Pericles.\n\nIn another context, Schopenhauer reiterated his eugenic thesis: \"If you want Utopian plans, I would say: the only solution to the problem is the despotism of the wise and noble members of a genuine aristocracy, a genuine nobility, achieved by mating the most magnanimous men with the cleverest and most gifted women. This proposal constitutes my Utopia and my Platonic Republic.\" Analysts (e.g., Keith Ansell-Pearson) have suggested that Schopenhauer's anti-egalitarianist sentiment and his support for eugenics influenced the neo-aristocratic philosophy of Friedrich Nietzsche, who initially considered Schopenhauer his mentor.\n\nAs a consequence of his monistic philosophy, Schopenhauer was very concerned about the welfare of animals. For him, all individual animals, including humans, are essentially the same, being phenomenal manifestations of the one underlying Will. The word \"will\" designated, for him, force, power, impulse, energy, and desire; it is the closest word we have that can signify both the real essence of all external things and also our own direct, inner experience. Since every living thing possesses will, then humans and animals are fundamentally the same and can recognize themselves in each other. For this reason, he claimed that a good person would have sympathy for animals, who are our fellow sufferers.\n\nIn 1841, he praised the establishment, in London, of the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, and also the Animals' Friends Society in Philadelphia. Schopenhauer even went so far as to protest against the use of the pronoun \"it\" in reference to animals because it led to the treatment of them as though they were inanimate things. To reinforce his points, Schopenhauer referred to anecdotal reports of the look in the eyes of a monkey who had been shot and also the grief of a baby elephant whose mother had been killed by a hunter.\n\nHe was very attached to his succession of pet poodles. Schopenhauer criticized Spinoza's belief that animals are a mere means for the satisfaction of humans.\n\nIn the third, expanded edition of \"The World as Will and Representation\" (1859), Schopenhauer added an appendix to his chapter on the \"Metaphysics of Sexual Love\". He wrote that pederasty did have the benefit of preventing ill-begotten children. Concerning this, he stated that \"the vice we are considering appears to work directly against the aims and ends of nature, and that in a matter that is all important and of the greatest concern to her it must in fact serve these very aims, although only indirectly, as a means for preventing greater evils\".\nSchopenhauer ends the appendix with the statement that \"by expounding these paradoxical ideas, I wanted to grant to the professors of philosophy a small favour. I have done so by giving them the opportunity of slandering me by saying that I defend and commend pederasty.\"\n\nSchopenhauer read the Latin translation of the ancient Hindu texts, the Upanishads, which French writer Anquetil du Perron had translated from the Persian translation of Prince Dara Shukoh entitled \"Sirre-Akbar\" (\"The Great Secret\"). He was so impressed by their philosophy that he called them \"the production of the highest human wisdom\", and believed they contained superhuman concepts. The Upanishads was a great source of inspiration to Schopenhauer. Writing about them, he said:\n\nIt is the most satisfying and elevating reading (with the exception of the original text) which is possible in the world; it has been the solace of my life and will be the solace of my death.\n\nThe book \"Oupnekhat\" (Upanishad) always lay open on his table, and he invariably studied it before sleeping at night. He called the opening up of Sanskrit literature \"the greatest gift of our century\" and predicted that the philosophy and knowledge of the Upanishads would become the cherished faith of the West.\n\nSchopenhauer was first introduced to the 1802 Latin Upanishad translation through Friedrich Majer. They met during the winter of 1813–1814 in Weimar at the home of Schopenhauer's mother according to the biographer Safranski. Majer was a follower of Herder, and an early Indologist. Schopenhauer did not begin a serious study of the Indic texts, however, until the summer of 1814. Sansfranski maintains that between 1815 and 1817, Schopenhauer had another important cross-pollination with Indian thought in Dresden. This was through his neighbor of two years, Karl Christian Friedrich Krause. Krause was then a minor and rather unorthodox philosopher who attempted to mix his own ideas with that of ancient Indian wisdom. Krause had also mastered Sanskrit, unlike Schopenhauer, and the two developed a professional relationship. It was from Krause that Schopenhauer learned meditation and received the closest thing to expert advice concerning Indian thought.\n\nMost noticeable, in the case of Schopenhauer's work, was the significance of the Chandogya Upanishad, whose Mahāvākya, Tat Tvam Asi, is mentioned throughout \"The World as Will and Representation\".\n\nSchopenhauer noted a correspondence between his doctrines and the Four Noble Truths of Buddhism. Similarities centered on the principles that life involves suffering, that suffering is caused by desire (taṇhā), and that the extinction of desire leads to liberation. Thus three of the four \"truths of the Buddha\" correspond to Schopenhauer's doctrine of the will. In Buddhism, however, while greed and lust are always unskillful, desire is ethically variable – it can be skillful, unskillful, or neutral.\n\nFor Schopenhauer, will had ontological primacy over the intellect. In other words, desire is prior to thought. Schopenhauer felt this was similar to notions of puruṣārtha or goals of life in Vedānta Hinduism.\n\nIn Schopenhauer's philosophy, denial of the will is attained by either:\n\nHowever, Buddhist nirvāṇa is not equivalent to the condition that Schopenhauer described as denial of the will. Nirvāṇa is not the extinguishing of the \"person\" as some Western scholars have thought, but only the \"extinguishing\" (the literal meaning of nirvana) of the flames of greed, hatred, and delusion that assail a person's character. Occult historian Joscelyn Godwin (born 1945) stated, \"It was Buddhism that inspired the philosophy of Arthur Schopenhauer, and, through him, attracted Richard Wagner.\" This Orientalism reflected the struggle of the German Romantics, in the words of Leon Poliakov, to \"free themselves from Judeo-Christian fetters\". In contradistinction to Godwin's claim that Buddhism inspired Schopenhauer, the philosopher himself made the following statement in his discussion of religions:\nIf I wished to take the results of my philosophy as the standard of truth, I should have to concede to Buddhism pre-eminence over the others. In any case, it must be a pleasure to me to see my doctrine in such close agreement with a religion that the majority of men on earth hold as their own, for this numbers far more followers than any other. And this agreement must be yet the more pleasing to me, inasmuch as \"in my philosophizing I have certainly not been under its influence\" [emphasis added]. For up till 1818, when my work appeared, there was to be found in Europe only a very few accounts of Buddhism.\nBuddhist philosopher Nishitani Keiji, however, sought to distance Buddhism from Schopenhauer. While Schopenhauer's philosophy may sound rather mystical in such a summary, his methodology was resolutely empirical, rather than speculative or transcendental:\nPhilosophy ... is a science, and as such has no articles of faith; accordingly, in it nothing can be assumed as existing except what is either positively given empirically, or demonstrated through indubitable conclusions.\nAlso note:\nThis actual world of what is knowable, in which we are and which is in us, remains both the material and the limit of our consideration.\nThe argument that Buddhism affected Schopenhauer's philosophy more than any other Dharmic faith loses more credence when viewed in light of the fact that Schopenhauer did not begin a serious study of Buddhism until after the publication of \"The World as Will and Representation\" in 1818. Scholars have started to revise earlier views about Schopenhauer's discovery of Buddhism. Proof of early interest and influence, however, appears in Schopenhauer's 1815/16 notes (transcribed and translated by Urs App) about Buddhism. They are included in a recent case study that traces Schopenhauer's interest in Buddhism and documents its influence. Other scholarly work questions how similar Schopenhauer's philosophy actually is to Buddhism.\n\nSome traditions in Western esotericism and parapsychology interested Schopenhauer and influenced his philosophical theories. He praised animal magnetism as evidence for the reality of magic in his \"On the Will in Nature\", and went so far as to accept the division of magic into left-hand and right-hand magic, although he doubted the existence of demons.\n\nSchopenhauer grounded magic in the Will and claimed all forms of magical transformation depended on the human Will, not on ritual. This theory notably parallels Aleister Crowley's system of magick and its emphasis on human will. Given the importance of the Will to Schopenhauer's overarching system, this amounts to \"suggesting his whole philosophical system had magical powers.\" Schopenhauer rejected the theory of disenchantment and claimed philosophy should synthesize itself with magic, which he believed amount to \"practical metaphysics.\"\n\nNeoplatonism, including the traditions of Plotinus and to a lesser extent Marsilio Ficino, has also been cited as an influence on Schopenhauer.\n\nSchopenhauer had a wide range of interests, from science and opera to occultism and literature.\n\nIn his student years Schopenhauer went more often to lectures in the sciences than philosophy. He kept a strong interest as his personal library contained near to 200 books of scientific literature at his death, and his works refer to scientific titles not found in the library.\n\nMany evenings were spent in the theatre, opera and ballet; the operas of Mozart, Rossini and Bellini were especially esteemed. Schopenhauer considered music the highest art, and played the flute during his whole life.\n\nAs a polyglot, the philosopher knew German, Italian, Spanish, French, English, Latin and ancient Greek, and he was an avid reader of poetry and literature. He particularly revered Goethe, Petrarch, Calderón and Shakespeare.\n\nIf Goethe had not been sent into the world simultaneously with Kant in order to counterbalance him, so to speak, in the spirit of the age, the latter would have been haunted like a nightmare many an aspiring mind and would have oppressed it with great affliction. But now the two have an infinitely wholesome effect from opposite directions and will probably raise the German spirit to a height surpassing even that of antiquity.\nIn philosophy, his most important influences were, according to himself, Kant, Plato and the Upanishads. Concerning the Upanishads and Vedas, he writes in \"The World as Will and Representation\":\nIf the reader has also received the benefit of the Vedas, the access to which by means of the Upanishads is in my eyes the greatest privilege which this still young century (1818) may claim before all previous centuries, if then the reader, I say, has received his initiation in primeval Indian wisdom, and received it with an open heart, he will be prepared in the very best way for hearing what I have to tell him. It will not sound to him strange, as to many others, much less disagreeable; for I might, if it did not sound conceited, contend that every one of the detached statements which constitute the Upanishads, may be deduced as a necessary result from the fundamental thoughts which I have to enunciate, though those deductions themselves are by no means to be found there.\n\nSchopenhauer saw Bruno and Spinoza as unique philosophers who were not bound to their age or nation. \"Both were fulfilled by the thought, that as manifold the appearances of the world may be, it is still \"one\" being, that appears in all of them. ... Consequently, there is no place for God as creator of the world in their philosophy, but God is the world itself.\"\n\nSchopenhauer expressed his regret that Spinoza stuck for the presentation of his philosophy with the concepts of scholasticism and Cartesian philosophy, and tried to use geometrical proofs that do not hold because of the vagueness and wideness of the definitions. It is the common preference of philosophers of abstraction over perception. Bruno on the other hand, who knew much about nature and ancient literature, presents his ideas with Italian vividness, and is amongst philosophers the only one who comes near Plato's poetic and dramatic power of exposition.\n\nSchopenhauer noted that their philosophies do not provide any ethics, and it is therefore very remarkable that Spinoza called his main work \"Ethics\". In fact, it could be considered complete from the standpoint of life-affirmation, if one completely ignores morality and self-denial. It is yet even more remarkable that Schopenhauer mentions Spinoza as an example of the denial of the will, if one uses the French biography by Jean Maximilien Lucas as the key to \"Tractatus de Intellectus Emendatione\".\n\nThe importance of Kant for Schopenhauer, in philosophy as well as on a personal level, can hardly be overstated. The philosophy of Kant was the foundation of his own. Schopenhauer maintained that Kant stands in the same relation to philosophers such as Berkeley and Plato, as Copernicus to Hicetas, Philolaus, and Aristarchus: Kant succeeded in demonstrating what previous philosophers merely asserted.\n\nIn his study room one bust was of Buddha, the other was of Kant. The bond which Schopenhauer felt with the philosopher of Königsberg may be esteemed in a poem he dedicated to Kant:\n\nSchopenhauer dedicated one fifth of his main work, \"The World as Will and Representation\", to a criticism of the Kantian philosophy.\n\nThe leading figures of post-Kantian philosophy, Fichte, Schelling and Hegel, were not respected by Schopenhauer. He argued that they were no philosophers at all, who merely sought to impress the public.\n\nSchelling was deemed the most talented of the three, and Schopenhauer wrote that he would recommend his \"elucidatory paraphrase of the highly important doctrine of Kant\" concerning the intelligible character, if he had been honest enough to admit he was showing off with the thoughts of Kant, instead of hiding this relation in a cunning manner.\n\nSchopenhauer's favourite subject of attacks was Hegel, whom he considered unworthy even of Fichte and Schelling. Whereas Fichte was merely a windbag, Hegel was a \"stupid and clumsy charlatan\". Karl Popper agreed with this distinction.\n\nSchopenhauer had a large posthumous effect and remained the most influential German philosopher until the First World War. His philosophy was a starting point for a new generation of philosophers, which consisted of Julius Bahnsen, Paul Deussen, Lazar von Hellenbach, Karl Robert Eduard von Hartmann, Ernst Otto Lindner, Philipp Mainländer, Friedrich Nietzsche, Olga Plümacher and Agnes Talbert. His legacy shaped the intellectual debate, and forced movements that were utterly opposed to him, neo-Kantianism and positivism, to address issues they would otherwise have completely ignored, and in doing so he changed them markedly. The French writer Maupassant commented that \"to-day even those who execrate him seem to carry in their own souls particles of his thought.\" Other philosophers of the 19th century who cited his influence include Hans Vaihinger, Volkelt, Solovyov and Weininger.\n\nSchopenhauer was well read amongst physicists, most notably Einstein, Schrödinger, Wolfgang Pauli, and Majorana. Einstein described Schopenhauer's thoughts as a \"continual consolation\" and called him a genius. In his Berlin study three figures hung on the wall: Faraday, Maxwell, Schopenhauer. Konrad Wachsmann recalled: \"He often sat with one of the well-worn Schopenhauer volumes, and as he sat there, he seemed so pleased, as if he were engaged with a serene and cheerful work.\"\n\nWhen Erwin Schrödinger discovered Schopenhauer (\"the greatest savant of the West\") he considered switching his study of physics to philosophy. He maintained the idealistic views during the rest of his life. Wolfgang Pauli accepted the main tenet of Schopenhauer's metaphysics, that the thing-in-itself is will.\n\nBut most of all Schopenhauer is famous for his influence on artists. Richard Wagner became one of the earliest and most famous adherents of the Schopenhauerian philosophy. The admiration was not mutual, and Schopenhauer proclaimed: \"I remain faithful to Rossini and Mozart!\" See also Influence of Schopenhauer on Tristan und Isolde.\n\nUnder the influence of Schopenhauer Leo Tolstoy became convinced that the truth of all religions lies in self-renunciation. When he read his philosophy he exclaimed \"at present I am convinced that Schopenhauer is the greatest genius among men. ... It is the whole world in an incomparably beautiful and clear reflection.\" He said that what he has written in \"War and Peace\" is also said by Schopenhauer in \"The World as Will and Representation\".\n\nJorge Luis Borges remarked that the reason he had never attempted to write a systematic account of his world view, despite his penchant for philosophy and metaphysics in particular, was because Schopenhauer had already written it for him.\n\nOther figures in literature who were strongly influenced by Schopenhauer were Thomas Mann, Afanasy Fet, J.-K. Huysmans and George Santayana.\n\nSergei Prokofiev, although initially reluctant to engage with works noted for their pessimism, became fascinated with Schopenhauer after reading \"Aphorisms on the Wisdom of LifeI\" in \"Parerga and ParalipomenaI.\" \"With his truths Schopenhauer gave me a spiritual world and an awareness of happiness.\"\n\nFriedrich Nietzsche owed the awakening of his philosophical interest to reading \"The World as Will and Representation\" and admitted that he was one of the few philosophers that he respected, dedicating to him his essay \"Schopenhauer als Erzieher\" one of his \"Untimely Meditations\".\n\nAs a teenager, Ludwig Wittgenstein adopted Schopenhauer's epistemological idealism. However, after his study of the philosophy of mathematics, he rejected epistemological transcendental idealism for Gottlob Frege's conceptual realism. In later years, Wittgenstein was highly dismissive of Schopenhauer, describing him as an ultimately shallow thinker: \"Schopenhauer has quite a crude mind ... where real depth starts, his comes to an end.\" His friend Bertrand Russell had a low opinion on the philosopher, and attacked him in his famous \"History of Western Philosophy\" for hypocritically praising asceticism yet not acting upon it.\n\nOn the opposite isle of Russell on the foundations of mathematics, the Dutch mathematician L. E. J. Brouwer incorporated the ideas of Kant and Schopenhauer in intuitionism, where mathematics is considered a purely mental activity, instead of an analytic activity wherein objective properties of reality are revealed. Brouwer was also influenced by Schopenhauer's metaphysics, and wrote an essay on mysticism.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7587036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7587036", "title": "Association for Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care International", "text": "Association for Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care International\n\nThe Association for Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care International, or AAALAC, is a private, nonprofit organization that promotes the humane treatment of animals in science through voluntary accreditation and assessment programs. The program started in 1965, when leading veterinarians and researchers organized the American Association for Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care, or AAALAC. In 1996, AAALAC changed its name to the Association for Assessment and Accreditation of Laboratory Animal Care International (AAALAC International). The name change reflects the organization's growth in other countries, and its commitment to enhancing life sciences and quality animal care around the world. Today, more than 900 organizations worldwide are accredited.\n\nAlong with meeting all applicable local and national regulations, AAALAC accredited institutions must also demonstrate that they are achieving the standards outlined in the Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals (National Research Council, 1996). The standards in the Guide go above and beyond what is required by law. One book, \"The Guide for the Care and Use of Laboratory Animals\" serves as the basic standard represented by AAALAC accreditation. The \"Guide\" is written by the National Research Council of the U.S. National Academy of Sciences.\n\nIn 2014, PETA released a study that found AAALAC accredited laboratories had more animal care violations than laboratories not accredited by the group.\n\n"}
{"id": "25190510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25190510", "title": "Aulus Egnatius Priscillianus", "text": "Aulus Egnatius Priscillianus\n\nAulus Egnatius Priscillianus (c. 135 - 1??) was a Roman philosopher.\n\nHe married and had Lucius Egnatius Victor, Quintus Egnatius Proculus and Aulus Egnatius Proculus as sons.\n\nHe was also related to Marcus Egnatius Marcellinus and Marcus Egnatius Postumus.\n\n"}
{"id": "190988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=190988", "title": "Bibliography", "text": "Bibliography\n\nBibliography (from Greek βιβλίον \"biblion\", \"book\" and -γραφία \"-graphia\", \"writing\"), as a discipline, is traditionally the academic study of books as physical, cultural objects; in this sense, it is also known as bibliology (from Greek , \"-logia\"). Carter and Barker (2010) describe bibliography as a twofold scholarly discipline—the organized listing of books (enumerative bibliography) and the systematic description of books as objects (descriptive bibliography).\n\nThe word \"bibliographia\" (βιβλιογραφία) was used by Greek writers in the first three centuries AD to mean the copying of books by hand. In the 12th century, the word started being used for \"the intellectual activity of composing books\". The 17th century then saw the emergence of the modern meaning, that of description of books.\nCurrently, the field of bibliography has expanded to include studies that consider the book as a material object. Bibliography in its systematic pursuit of understanding the past and the present through written and printed documents describes a way and means of extracting information from this material. Bibliographers are interested in comparing versions of texts to each other rather than in interpreting their meaning or assessing their significance.\n\nBibliography is a specialized aspect of library science (or library and information science, LIS) and documentation science. It was established by a Belgian, named Paul Otlet (1868-1944), who was the founder of the field of documentation, as a branch of the information sciences, who wrote about \"the science of bibliography.\" However, there have recently been voices claiming that \"the bibliographical paradigm\" is obsolete, and it is not today common in LIS. A defense of the bibliographical paradigm was provided by Hjørland (2007).\nThe quantitative study of bibliographies is known as bibliometrics, which is today an influential subfield in LIS.\n\nCarter and Barker (2010) describe bibliography as a twofold scholarly discipline—the organized listing of books (enumerative bibliography) and the systematic description of books as physical objects (descriptive bibliography). These two distinct concepts and practices have separate rationales and serve differing purposes. Innovators and originators in the field include W. W. Greg, Fredson Bowers, Philip Gaskell, G. Thomas Tanselle.\n\nBowers (1949) refers to enumerative bibliography as a procedure that identifies books in “specific collections or libraries,” in a specific discipline, by an author, printer, or period of production (3). He refers to descriptive bibliography as the systematic description of a book as a material or physical artifact. Analytical bibliography, the cornerstone of descriptive bibliography, investigates the printing and all physical features of a book that yield evidence establishing a book's history and transmission (Feather 10). It is the preliminary phase of bibliographic description and provides the vocabulary, principles and techniques of analysis that descriptive bibliographers apply and on which they base their descriptive practice.\n\nDescriptive bibliographers follow specific conventions and associated classification in their description. Titles and title pages are transcribed in a quasi-facsimile style and representation. Illustration, typeface, binding, paper, and all physical elements related to identifying a book follow formulaic conventions, as Bowers established in his foundational opus, \"The Principles of Bibliographic Description\". The thought expressed in this book expands substantively on W. W. Greg's groundbreaking theory that argued for the adoption of formal bibliographic principles (Greg 29). Fundamentally, analytical bibliography is concerned with objective, physical analysis and history of a book while descriptive bibliography employs all data that analytical bibliography furnishes and then codifies it with a view to identifying the ideal copy or form of a book that most nearly represents the printer's initial conception and intention in printing.\n\nIn addition to viewing bibliographic study as being composed of four interdependent approaches (enumerative, descriptive, analytical, and textual), Bowers notes two further subcategories of research, namely historical bibliography and aesthetic bibliography. Both historical bibliography, which involves the investigation of printing practices, tools, and related documents, and aesthetic bibliography, which examines the art of designing type and books, are often employed by analytical bibliographers.\n\nD. F. McKenzie extended previous notions of bibliography as set forth by W. W. Greg, Bowers, Gaskell and Tanselle. He describes the nature of bibliography as \"the discipline that studies texts as recorded forms, and the processes of their transmission, including their production and reception\" (1999 12). This concept broadens the scope of bibliography to include \"non-book texts\" and an accounting for their material form and structure, as well as textual variations, technical and production processes that bring sociocultural context and effects into play. McKenzie's perspective contextualizes textual objects or artifacts with sociological and technical factors that have an effect on production, transmission and, ultimately, ideal copy (2002 14). Bibliography, generally, concerns the material conditions of books [as well as other texts] how they are designed, edited, printed, circulated, reprinted, collected.\n\nBibliographic works differ in the amount of detail depending on the purpose and can generally be divided into two categories: enumerative bibliography (also called compilative, reference or systematic), which results in an overview of publications in a particular category and analytical or critical bibliography, which studies the production of books. In earlier times, bibliography mostly focused on books. Now, both categories of bibliography cover works in other media including audio recordings, motion pictures and videos, graphic objects, databases, CD-ROMs and websites.\n\nAn enumerative bibliography is a systematic list of books and other works such as journal articles. Bibliographies range from \"works cited\" lists at the end of books and articles, to complete and independent publications. A notable example of a complete, independent publication is Gow's, \"A. E. Housman: A Sketch, Together with a List of His Classical Papers\" (1936). As separate works, they may be in bound volumes such as those shown on the right, or computerized bibliographic databases. A library catalog, while not referred to as a \"bibliography,\" is bibliographic in nature. Bibliographical works are almost always considered to be tertiary sources.\n\nEnumerative bibliographies are based on a unifying principle such as creator, subject, date, topic or other characteristic. An entry in an enumerative bibliography provides the core elements of a text resource including a title, the creator(s), publication date and place of publication. Belanger (1977) distinguishes an enumerative bibliography from other bibliographic forms such as descriptive bibliography, analytical bibliography or textual bibliography in that its function is to record and list, rather than describe a source in detail or with any reference to the source's physical nature, materiality or textual transmission. The enumerative list may be comprehensive or selective. One noted example would be Tanselle's bibliography that exhaustively enumerates topics and sources related to all forms of bibliography. A more common and particular instance of an enumerative bibliography relates to specific sources used or considered in preparing a scholarly paper or academic term paper.\n\nCitation styles vary.\n\nAn entry for a book in a bibliography usually contains the following elements:\n\nAn entry for a journal or periodical article usually contains:\n\nA bibliography may be arranged by author, topic, or some other scheme. Annotated bibliographies give descriptions about how each source is useful to an author in constructing a paper or argument. These descriptions, usually a few sentences long, provide a summary of the source and describe its relevance. Reference management software may be used to keep track of references and generate bibliographies as required.\n\nBibliographies differ from library catalogs by including only relevant items rather than all items present in a particular library. However, the catalogs of some national libraries effectively serve as , as the national libraries own almost all their countries' publications.\n\nFredson Bowers described and formulated a standardized practice of descriptive bibliography in his \"Principles of Bibliographical Description\"\n(1949). Scholars to this day treat Bowers' scholarly guide as authoritative. In this classic text, Bowers describes the basic function of bibliography as, \"[providing] sufficient data so that a reader may identify the book described, understand the printing, and recognize the precise contents\" (124).\n\nDescriptive bibliographies as a scholarly product usually include information on the following aspect of a given book as a material object:\n\nThis branch of the bibliographic discipline examines the material features of a textual artifact – such as type, ink, paper, imposition, format, impressions and states of a book – to essentially recreate the conditions of its production. Analytical bibliography often uses collateral evidence – such as general printing practices, trends in format, responses and non-responses to design, etc. – to scrutinize the historical conventions and influences underlying the physical appearance of a text. The bibliographer utilizes knowledge gained from the investigation of physical evidence in the form of a descriptive bibliography or textual bibliography. Descriptive bibliography is the close examination and cataloging of a text as a physical object, recording its size, format, binding, and so on, while textual bibliography (or textual criticism) identifies variations – and the aetiology of variations – in a text with a view to determining \"the establishment of the most correct form of [a] text (Bowers 498[1]).\n\nA \"bibliographer\" is a person who describes and lists books and other publications, with particular attention to such characteristics as authorship, publication date, edition, typography, etc. A person who limits such efforts to a specific field or discipline is a subject bibliographer.\"\n\nA bibliographer, in the technical meaning of the word, is anyone who writes about books. But the accepted meaning since at least the 18th century is a person who attempts a comprehensive account—sometimes just a list, sometimes a fuller reckoning—of the books written on a particular subject. In the present, bibliography is no longer a career, generally speaking; bibliographies tend to be written on highly specific subjects and by specialists in the field.\n\nThe term \"bibliographer\" is sometimes—in particular subject bibliographer—today used about certain roles performed in libraries and bibliographic databases.\n\nSystematic lists of media other than books can be referred to with terms formed analogously to \"bibliography\":\n\nArachniography is a term coined by NASA research historian Andrew J. Butrica, which means a reference list of URLs about a particular subject. It is equivalent to a bibliography in a book. The name derives from \"arachne\" in reference to a spider and its web.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "59180132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59180132", "title": "Bob Brecher", "text": "Bob Brecher\n\nBob Brecher (born 1949) is a British philosopher and Professor of Philosophy at the University of Brighton.\nHe is known for his expertise on ethics and political philosophy.\nBrecher is co-director of Centre for Applied Philosophy, Politics and Ethics and a former president of Association for Social and Political Philosophy (2000-2003). He founded \"Res Publica\" in 1995.\n\n\n\nBob Brecher\n"}
{"id": "5325014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5325014", "title": "Boris Hessen", "text": "Boris Hessen\n\nBoris Mikhailovich Hessen (), also Gessen (August 16, 1893, Elisavetgrad – December 20, 1936, Moscow), was a Soviet physicist, philosopher and historian of science. He is most famous for his paper on Newton's \"Principia\" which became foundational in historiography of science.\n\nBoris Hessen was born to a Jewish family in Elisavetgrad, in the Kherson Governorate of the Russian Empire (now Kropyvnytskyi, Ukraine). He studied physics and natural sciences at the University of Edinburgh (1913—1914) together with his gymnasium school friend Igor Tamm. He then went to study at the St. Petersburg University (1914—1917). He enlisted in the Red Army in the Russian Civil War, joined the Communist Party in 1919 and became a member of the Revolutionary Military Council (1919—1921). He also continued his physics studies at various places eventually graduating from the Red Professor's Institute in Moscow in 1928. After working in the institute for two more years, he became a physics professor and the chair of the physics department at the Moscow State University in 1931. In 1933 he was elected a member of the Russian Academy of Sciences.\n\nIn 1931, Hessen delivered his famous paper \"The Socio-Economic Roots of Newton's Principia\" at the Second International Congress of the History of Science in London. This work became foundational in the history of science and led to modern studies of scientific revolutions and sociology of science.\n\nFrom 1934 to 1936 Hessen was a deputy director of the Physics Institute in Moscow headed by S.I. Vavilov. On August 22, 1936 Hessen was arrested by the NKVD. He was secretly tried for terrorism by a military tribunal together with his gymnasium school teacher A. O. Apirin. They were found guilty on December 20, 1936 and were executed by shooting on the same day. On April 21, 1956 both Apirin and Hessen were \"rehabilitated\" (posthumously exonerated).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27353457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27353457", "title": "Cynicism (contemporary)", "text": "Cynicism (contemporary)\n\nCynicism is an attitude characterized by a general distrust of others' motives. A cynic may have a general lack of faith or hope in the human species or people motivated by ambition, desire, greed, gratification, materialism, goals, and opinions that a cynic perceives as vain, unobtainable, or ultimately meaningless and therefore deserving of ridicule or admonishment. A common misapplication of this attitude involves its attribution to individuals who emote well-thought-out expressions of skepticism. Such miscategorization may occur as the result of either inexperience or a belief system in which the innate goodness of man is considered an important tenet or even an irrefutable fact. Thus, contemporary usage incorporates both a form of jaded prudence (when misapplied) and realistic criticism or skepticism. The term originally derives from the ancient Greek philosophers, the Cynics, who rejected all conventions, whether of religion, manners, housing, dress, or decency, instead advocating the pursuit of virtue in accordance with a simple and idealistic way of life.\n\nBy the 19th century, emphasis on the ascetic ideals and the critique of current civilization based on how it might fall short of an ideal civilization or negativistic aspects of Cynic philosophy led the modern understanding of cynicism to mean a disposition of disbelief in the sincerity or goodness of human motives and actions. Modern cynicism is a distrust toward professed ethical and social values, especially when there are high expectations concerning society, institutions, and authorities that are unfulfilled. It can manifest itself as a result of frustration, disillusionment, and distrust perceived as owing to organizations, authorities, and other aspects of society.\n\nModern cynicism has been defined as an attitude of distrust toward claimed ethical and social values and a rejection of the need to be socially involved. It is pessimistic in regards to the capacity of human beings to make correct ethical choices, and one antonym is naiveté. Modern cynicism is sometimes regarded as a product of mass society, especially in those circumstances where the individual believes there is a conflict between society's stated motives and goals and actual motives and goals.\n\nIt has been claimed that \"healthy skepticism may have given way to corrosive cynicism\". Cynicism regarding government or politics can logically lead to political withdrawal and effective political helplessness. In 2013 conservative politician and political theorist William J. Bennett warned that America could \"crumble from within; that we would become cynical and withdraw\".\n\nA 2004 experiment and paper called \"The Effects of Strategic News on Political Cynicism, Issue Evaluations, and Policy Support: A Two-Wave Experiment\" found that the way the news media presents the news can cause political cynicism. The experiment also demonstrated; \"a negative relation between efficacy and cynicism suggesting that efficacious citizens were less likely to be cynical about politics\". It was found that straight dry, \"issues-based\" news did not cause political cynicism, but that \"Strategic News\" and \"game news\" did. The latter two types of news presentation emphasize:\nSocial cynicism results from high expectations concerning society, institutions and authorities: unfulfilled expectations leads to disillusionment, which releases feelings of disappointment and betrayal.\n\nIn organizations, cynicism manifests itself as a general or specific attitude, characterized by frustration, hopelessness, disillusionment and distrust in regard to economic or governmental organizations, managers or other aspects of work.\n\nCynicism can appear more active in depression. In his bestselling \"Critique of Cynical Reason\" (1983), Peter Sloterdijk defined modern cynics as \"borderline melancholics, who can keep their symptoms of depression under control and yet retain the ability to work, whatever might happen ... indeed, this is the essential point in modern cynicism: the ability of its bearers to work—in spite of anything that might happen.\"\n\nOne active aspect of cynicism involves the desire to expose hypocrisy and to point out gaps between ideals and practices. George Bernard Shaw allegedly expressed this succinctly: \"The power of accurate observation is commonly called cynicism by those who don't have it\".\n\nA study published in \"Neurology\" journal in 2014 found a link between \"cynical distrust\" (defined as the belief that others are mainly motivated by selfish concerns) and dementia. The survey included 622 people who were tested for dementia for a period of 8 years. In that period, 46 people were diagnosed with dementia. \"Once researchers adjusted for other factors that could affect dementia risk, such as high blood pressure, high cholesterol and smoking, people with high levels of cynical distrust were three times more likely to develop dementia than people with low levels of cynicism. Of the 164 people with high levels of cynicism, 14 people developed dementia, compared to nine of the 212 people with low levels of cynicism.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41276312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41276312", "title": "David John Farmer", "text": "David John Farmer\n\nDavid John Farmer is a professor emeritus of philosophy and public affairs in the L. Douglas Wilder School of Government and Public Affairs at Virginia Commonwealth University. He is best known for his publications on post-traditional governance theory and practice – especially on macro public administration and public policy. He has also published on the philosophy and foundations of economics and on the metaphysics of time. Post-traditional conceptual approaches analyzed in his writings include thinking as play, justice as seeking, practice as art, reflexive language, imaginization, anti-administration, deterritorialization, and epistemic pluralism.\n\nThe contents of some of the books are indicated under their titles – \"To Kill the King\", \"The Language of Public Administration\", \"Public Administration in Perspective\", and \"Crime Control\". The reference section lists these and others of his works. Dr. Farmer has also contributed to the fields of post-traditional governance theory and practice through many book chapters and articles.\n\nHe was born in Barnstaple, Devonshire, U.K. His father Joseph worked for most of his life in the Research and Development Department of the Bristol Aeroplane Company.\n\nHe began his university education at the London School of Economics, University of London. He obtained a master's degree in economics from the University of Toronto and a master's degree in philosophy at the University of Virginia. He was awarded two Ph.D. degrees. His Ph.D. in Economics is from the University of London (1984), and his Ph.D. in Philosophy is from the University of Virginia (1989).\n\nDr. Farmer’s career has been as a practitioner and as an academic. His practitioner experience included work as a management consultant for the Public Administration Service and for the Jacobs Company, both of Chicago (1965-1971). This management consulting included services to some forty state and local governments, e.g., the states of Illinois and Pennsylvania and cities of Los Angeles, Atlanta, Northampton, Galesburg, Reading, Salt Lake, New Hope, Durham, Oklahoma City, Plymouth, Moberly, Tacoma, Kansas City and Milwaukee. He has also worked as an employee in five governments. This included the City of New York, as director of Operations Management and as Special Assistant to the Police Commissioner in the New York City Police Department (1971-1974). It also included the U.S. Government, as a division director in the National Institute of Justice in the U.S. Department of Justice (1974-1980). Previous employment included work as an economist and as an administrative analyst for two Canadian provincial governments (Ontario and Saskatchewan).\n\nDr. Robert Cunningham (University of Tennessee, Knoxville) wrote that Farmer \"sets his ideas on the high road, the big picture, and implications for the future, adhering to the principle that ideas should be explained as simply as possible without distorting the reality...\" (Cunningham, 2009, 302). Dr. Gary Marshall (University of Nebraska at Omaha) wrote that \"Within public administration and political science, David Farmer is a mentor to many and an inspiration to all who know him.\" (G. Marshall, 2011, p. 1)\n\nThe International Journal of Organization Theory and Behavior devoted its entire Spring 2016 issue to Dr. Farmer's work. Ten articles were contributed by academics from various parts of the world (e.g., from the United States and from China and Argentina), practitioners and former doctoral students. It described and illustrated the breadth and depth of Dr. Farmer’s iconic contributions to post-traditional public administration theory and practice. In the closing article, Orion White concluded that “David Farmer’s monumental contribution is to have laid the foundation stone from which a new Public Administration culture can be built.” Articles included those titled “What is Newark?” “Applying Farmer’s Lenses: Two Illustrations,” “Of Rhizomes and Pointillism: David John Farmer’s Influence,” “The Practicality of Poetic Contemplation: A Reflection on David Farmer as a Methodologist,” and “David Farmer’s Body of Work: A Retrospective and Prospective View.\n\nThis 2005 book discusses a post-traditional consciousness that aims to revitalize governance and bureaucracy. \"To Kill the King\" explains such consciousness in terms of three concepts analyzed as thinking as play, justice as seeking, and practice as art. It describes a post-traditional consciousness of governance that can yield improvements in the quality of life for each individual and for future generations. The publisher claims that the book aims to \"capture the heart, and enlarge the soul, of reform movements within the study of governance and bureaucracy.\" O.C. McSwite, formerly of Virginia Tech and George Washington Universities, wrote: \"I consider this book to be a major and distinctive contribution to the field of public administration and to the discourse about the future of government in the United States as well\" (O.C. McSwite, 2009, p. 303).\n\nThis book argues that modern public administration theory, although valuable, is limiting as an explanatory and catalytic force in resolving problems about the functioning of public bureaucracy and in transforming public bureaucracy into a more positive force. \"The Language of Public Administration\" (1995) specifies a reflexive language paradigm for public administration thinking. It aims to show how the study and practice of public administration can be reinvigorated. Dr. Alexander Kouzmin (Southern Cross University and University of South Australia) writes that “Unrivalled by peers, Dr. Farmer has a vibrant language of public administration transgressing what is sayable and what is un-sayable (A. Kouzmin, 2011, p. 803). \"The Language of Public Administration\" was listed as one of the candidate books for “great books of public administration, 1990-2010” (Meier & O’Toole, 2012, p. 890).\n\n\"The Language of Public Administration\" has been translated into Chinese and Korean. It was translated into Chinese in 2005. The Korean translation was published in 1999 by Pakyoung Publishing Company.\n\nThe book explains and illustrates how public administration can benefit from epistemic pluralism – just as can any other action or social science discipline, currently operating essentially within its own disciplinary cul-de-sac. \"Public Administration in Perspective\" (2010) explains that epistemic refers to knowing; pluralism refers to more than one way. The book offers an example of a grand strategy of epistemic pluralism. It examines public administration theory and practice from perspectives that include a traditional, a business, an economic, a political, a critical theory, a post-structural, a psychoanalytic, a neuroscience, a feminist, an ethical, and a data lens. It begins by quoting Dwight Waldo’s claim that “administrative thought must establish a working relationship with every major province in the realm of human learning.” Dr. Breena Coates (California State University, San Bernardino) writes about \"Public Administration in Perspective\" that the “author provides unique and, hitherto, unexplored perspectives from which to view the multiple faces of public administration… The book’s scholarship is compelling and hard to resist… Today in our networked, globalized environment we are more than ever coming to the realization that there is an interdisciplinary basis for understanding truth, and that each discrete branch of knowledge studies a mere subset of particularized knowledge streams” (B. Coates, 2012, p. 133.)\n\nThe book presents a comprehensive examination of police resources allocation decision making and documents research indicating opportunities for better utilization of police resources. The publisher of this 1984 book (Crime Control) claims that the book should be read by \"those working in the fields of law and society, criminology, sociology, political science, criminal law, and criminal justice.\"\nThe former N.Y.P.D. Police Commissioner Patrick V. Murphy wrote of this book that “In recent years, American policing has benefited greatly from the observations and analyses of scholars and researchers, particularly when they have had on-line experience in police agencies at one or another stage in their careers. David J. Farmer is a scholar who has had such experience, which adds a special dimension to his observations and conclusions” (Patrick V. Murphy, 1984, p. vii.)\n"}
{"id": "48055251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48055251", "title": "Deshan Xuanjian", "text": "Deshan Xuanjian\n\nDeshan Xuanjian (; Pinyin: Déshān Xuānjiàn; ), was a Chinese Zen Buddhist monk during the Tang Dynasty. He was born in Jiannan in what is now Sichuan Province. He is remembered for hitting his students with a cane to express awakening. Through his student Xuefeng Yicun, he is the ancestor to two of the Five Houses of Zen, the Yunmen School and the Fayan School. Earlier in his life he was a scholar focused on the Vinaya, and later he became famous for his knowledge of the Diamond Sutra. However, a famous kōan story recorded in the Blue Cliff Record and Shōbōgenzō Shin fukatoku relates an encounter he had with an old woman that convinced him that scriptural study on its own fails to bring about awakening. After this he studied under the Zen teacher Longtan Chongxin. During the reign of Emperor Wuzong of Tang, the brief but intense Great Anti-Buddhist Persecution was initiated and Deshan was forced from a thirty year long position in Lizhou into hiding on Mt. Dufu. Afterwards the governor of Wuleng in what is now Hunan Province asked Deshan to come to live on Mount Virtue, known in Chinese as \"Deshan\", the mountain after which he is named.\n"}
{"id": "57374471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57374471", "title": "Eclipse Paho", "text": "Eclipse Paho\n\nEclipse Paho is a MQTT (Message Queuing Telemetry Transport) implementation.\n\nPaho is available on various platforms and programming languages:\n\nA simple example of using Paho could be:\n"}
{"id": "5520634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5520634", "title": "Examination of conscience", "text": "Examination of conscience\n\nExamination of conscience is a review of one's past thoughts, words, actions, and omissions for the purpose of ascertaining their conformity with, or deviation from, the moral law. Among Christians, this is generally a private review; secular intellectuals have, on occasion, published autocritiques for public consumption. In the Catholic Church penitents who wish to receive the sacrament of penance are encouraged to examine their conscience using the Ten Commandments as a guide, or the Beatitudes, or the virtues and vices. A similar doctrine is taught in Lutheran churches, where penitents who wish to receive Holy Absolution are also asked to use the Ten Commandments as a guide. The process is very similar to the Islamic practice of Muhasaba, or self-reflection.\n\n\"The excellence of this practice and its fruitfulness for Christian virtue,\" preached Pope St. Pius X, \"are clearly established by the teaching of the great masters of the spiritual life.\" St. Ignatius of Loyola considered the examination of conscience as the single most important spiritual exercise. In his \"Spiritual Exercises\" he presents different forms of it in the particular and general examination (24-43). Of the general examination he writes; \"The first point is to give thanks to God our Lord for the favors received\" (43). This point has become a highly developed part of Ignatian spirituality in modern times, and has led to many more positive practices, generally called examen of consciousness. In twice-daily \"examens\" one might review the ways God has been present through one to others, and to oneself through others, and how one has responded, and to proceed with one's day with gratitude, more aware of the presence of God in one's life.\n\nIn general, there is a distinction between the particular examen, which aims to change one particular feature or defect in one's behavior, the examen of consciousness, which is a more nuanced reflection, and the general examination of conscience as used before the sacrament of penance.” This last method is called examination of conscience because it is a review of one’s actions from a moral point of view, reflecting upon one’s responsibility and looking at one’s sins and weaknesses in preparation for repentance, in contrast with the examen of consciousness which does not focus on morality even if sins will emerge during the review of the day.\n\nExamination of conscience was commanded by the Apostle St. Paul to be performed by the faithful each time they received Holy Communion: \"But let a man examine himself, and so let him eat of that bread, and drink of that cup. For he that eateth and drinketh unworthily, eateth and drinketh damnation to himself... For if we would judge ourselves, we should not be judged.\" (, KJV). And, as the early Christians received Holy Communion very frequently, examination of conscience became a familiar exercise of their spiritual lives. In many cases, this became a daily practice of the lives of early members of the clergy and those living a monastic life, such as the hermit St. Anthony, who was said to have examined his conscience every night, while St. Basil of Caesarea, St. Augustine of Hippo, St. Bernard of Clairvaux, and founders of religious orders generally made the examination of conscience a regular daily exercise of their followers. Lay members of congregations were encouraged to take up the practice as a salutary measure to advance in virtue. St. Bernard had taught: \"As a searching investigator of the integrity of your own conduct, submit your life to a daily examination. Consider carefully what progress you have made or what ground you have lost. Strive to know yourself. Place all your faults before your eyes. Come face to face with yourself, as though you were another person, and then weep for your faults.\" \n\nThe devotional examination of conscience is distinct from that required as a proximate preparation for the Sacrament of Reconciliation which is intended specifically to identify all sins requiring repentance. Various more elaborate methods might be used in the examination for confession, using the Ten Commandments of God, the Commandments of the Church, the Seven Capital Sins, the duties of one's state of life, the nine ways of partaking in the sin of others.\n\nFor the devotional examination the method laid down by St. Ignatius of Loyola in his \"Spiritual Exercises\" contains five points. In the first point, followers thank God for the benefits received; in the second, they ask grace to know and correct our faults; in the third, they pass in review the successive hours of the day, noting what faults they have committed in deed, word, thought, or omission; in the fourth, they ask God's pardon; in the fifth, they purpose amendment.\n\nAmong secular intellectuals, particularly Marxists, the term \"autocritique\", borrowed from , is used. This is particularly applied to a public \"methodological attempt to step away from themselves through a process of self-objectification,\" and was popular in France following the Algerian War. Edgar Morin's questioning of his own motives as a defender of Algeria popularised the term; other well-known examples include Jawaharlal Nehru's anonymous dissection of his own personality and drive in the Modern Review.\n\n"}
{"id": "2679140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2679140", "title": "Faraday paradox (electrochemistry)", "text": "Faraday paradox (electrochemistry)\n\nThe Faraday paradox was a once inexplicable aspect of the reaction between nitric acid and steel. Around 1830, the English scientist Michael Faraday found that diluted nitric acid would attack steel, but concentrated nitric acid would not. The attempt to explain this discovery led to advances in electrochemistry.\n\nThe key to resolving the paradox is passivation. When the acid is concentrated enough, and because concentrated nitric acid is an oxidizing agent, the potential of the metal is raised to the point that a layer of metastable FeO forms on the surface and protects it from further corrosion, even though the pH is so low that stable FeO cannot exist. This explanation is supported by the observation that scratching the surface causes a burst of bubbles. Diluted nitric acid is not as strong an oxidizing agent and hence does not raise the potential of the metal to the extent that metastable FeO forms on the surface. In this case, the metal freely corrodes.\n"}
{"id": "26268818", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26268818", "title": "Florence Nightingale effect", "text": "Florence Nightingale effect\n\nThe Florence Nightingale effect is a trope where a caregiver develops romantic feelings, sexual feelings, or both for their patient, even if very little communication or contact takes place outside of basic care. Feelings may fade once the patient is no longer in need of care.\n\nThe effect is named for Florence Nightingale, a pioneer in the field of nursing in the second half of the 19th century. Due to her dedication to patient care, she was dubbed \"The Lady with the Lamp\" because of her habit of making rounds at night, previously not done. Her care would forever change the way hospitals treated patients. Most consider Nightingale the founder of modern nursing. There is no record of Florence Nightingale having ever fallen in love with one of her patients. In fact, despite multiple suitors, she never married for fear it might interfere with her calling for nursing. Albert Finney referred to the effect as the \"Florence Nightingale syndrome\" in a 1982 interview, and that phrase was used earlier to refer to health workers pursuing non-tangible rewards in their careers.\n"}
{"id": "49916741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49916741", "title": "Francesco Paulucci di Calboli", "text": "Francesco Paulucci di Calboli\n\nFrancesco Giuseppe Paulucci di Calboli or de' Calboli (... – 18th century) was an Italian philosopher.\n"}
{"id": "18949437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18949437", "title": "Free Software Foundation", "text": "Free Software Foundation\n\nThe Free Software Foundation (FSF) is a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization founded by Richard Stallman on 4 October 1985 to support the free software movement, which promotes the universal freedom to study, distribute, create, and modify computer software, with the organization's preference for software being distributed under copyleft (\"share alike\") terms, such as with its own GNU General Public License. The FSF was incorporated in Massachusetts, US, where it is also based.\n\nFrom its founding until the mid-1990s, FSF's funds were mostly used to employ software developers to write free software for the GNU Project. Since the mid-1990s, the FSF's employees and volunteers have mostly worked on legal and structural issues for the free software movement and the free software community.\n\nConsistent with its goals, the FSF aims to use only free software on its own computers.\n\nThe Free Software Foundation was founded in 1985 as a non-profit corporation supporting free software development. It continued existing GNU projects such as the sale of manuals and tapes, and employed developers of the free software system. Since then, it has continued these activities, as well as advocating for the free software movement. The FSF is also the steward of several free software licenses, meaning it publishes them and has the ability to make revisions as needed.\n\nThe FSF holds the copyrights on many pieces of the GNU system, such as GNU Compiler Collection. As holder of these copyrights, it has the authority to enforce the copyleft requirements of the GNU General Public License (GPL) when copyright infringement occurs on that software.\n\nFrom 1991 until 2001, GPL enforcement was done informally, usually by Stallman himself, often with assistance from FSF's lawyer, Eben Moglen. Typically, GPL violations during this time were cleared up by short email exchanges between Stallman and the violator. In the interest of promoting copyleft assertiveness by software companies to the level that the FSF was already doing, in 2004 Harald Welte launched gpl-violations.org.\n\nIn late 2001, Bradley M. Kuhn (then executive director), with the assistance of Moglen, David Turner, and Peter T. Brown, formalized these efforts into FSF's GPL Compliance Labs. From 2002-2004, high-profile GPL enforcement cases, such as those against Linksys and OpenTV, became frequent.\n\nGPL enforcement and educational campaigns on GPL compliance was a major focus of the FSF's efforts during this period.\n\nIn March 2003, SCO filed suit against IBM alleging that IBM's contributions to various free software, including FSF's GNU, violated SCO's rights. While FSF was never a party to the lawsuit, FSF was subpoenaed on November 5, 2003. During 2003 and 2004, FSF put substantial advocacy effort into responding to the lawsuit and quelling its negative impact on the adoption and promotion of free software.\n\nFrom 2003 to 2005, FSF held legal seminars to explain the GPL and the surrounding law. Usually taught by Bradley M. Kuhn and Daniel Ravicher, these seminars offered CLE credit and were the first effort to give formal legal education on the GPL.\n\nIn 2007, the FSF published the third version of the GNU General Public License after significant outside input.\n\nIn December 2008, FSF filed a lawsuit against Cisco for using GPL-licensed components shipped with Linksys products. Cisco was notified of the licensing issue in 2003 but Cisco repeatedly disregarded its obligations under the GPL. In May 2009, FSF dropped the lawsuit when Cisco agreed to make a monetary donation to the FSF and appoint a Free Software Director to conduct continuous reviews of the company's license compliance practices.\n\n\nThe FSF maintains a list of \"high priority projects\" to which the Foundation claims that \"there is a vital need to draw the free software community's attention\". The FSF considers these projects \"important because computer users are continually being seduced into using non-free software, because there is no adequate free replacement.\"\n\nCurrent high priority tasks include reverse engineering proprietary firmware; reversible debugging in GNU Debugger; developing automatic transcription and video editing software, Coreboot, drivers for network routers and creating replacements for Skype, Google Earth, OpenDWG libraries, BitTorrent Sync and Oracle Forms.\n\nPrevious projects highlighted as needing work included the Free Java implementations, GNU Classpath, and GNU Compiler for Java, which ensure compatibility for the Java part of OpenOffice.org, and the GNOME desktop environment (see Java: Licensing).\n\nThe effort has been criticized by Michael Larabel for either not instigating active development or for being slow at the work being done, even after certain projects were added to the list.\n\nThe FSF maintains a \"Respects Your Freedom\" (RYF) hardware certification program. To be granted certification, a product must use 100% Free Software, allow user installation of modified software, be free of back doors and conform with several other requirements.\n\nCurrently, a total of 27 products have been granted the certification, including three laptops, a 3D printer, a wireless router, and three USB interface wireless adapters.\n\nAmong the 27 certified products are:\n\nThe FSF's board of governors includes amongst themselves professors at leading universities, senior engineers, and founders. A few high-profile activists, and software businessmen are admitted as well. Currently on the board there is one high-profile activist, and one world-class, software-campaign strategist (Windows 95, \"et al.\"). There was once a majorly contributing programmer (Mono and Gnome) and businessman who lost favor badly. Founders are also major software developers of the free software in the GNU Project.\n\nJohn Sullivan is the current FSF executive director. Previous members that occupied the position were Peter T. Brown (2005–2010) and Bradley M. Kuhn (2001–2005).\n\nCurrent board members:\n\n\nPrevious board members include:\n\n\nThe FSF Articles of Organization state that the board of directors are elected.\n\nThe bylaws say who can vote for them.\n\nThe board can grant powers to the Voting Membership.\n\nAt any given time, there are usually around a dozen employees. Most, but not all, work at the FSF headquarters in Boston, Massachusetts.\n\nOn November 25, 2002, the FSF launched the FSF Associate Membership program for individuals. Bradley M. Kuhn (FSF executive director, 2001–2005) launched the program and also signed up as the first Associate Member\n\nAssociate members hold a purely honorary and funding support role to the FSF.\n\nEben Moglen and Dan Ravicher previously served individually as pro bono legal counsel to the FSF. After forming the Software Freedom Law Center, Eben Moglen continued to serve as the FSF's general counsel until 2016.\n\nMost of the FSF funding comes from patrons and members. Revenue streams also come from free-software-related compliance labs, job postings, published works, and a web store. FSF offers speakers and seminars for pay, and all FSF projects accept donations.\n\nRevenues fund free-software programs and campaigns, while cash is invested conservatively in socially responsible investing. The financial strategy is designed to maintain the Foundation's long-term future through economic stability.\n\nThe FSF is a tax-exempt organization and posts annual IRS Form 990 filings online.\n\nLinus Torvalds has criticized FSF for using GPLv3 as a weapon in the fight against DRM. Torvalds argues that the issue of DRM and that of a software license should be treated as two separate issues.\n\nOn June 16, 2010, Joe Brockmeier, a journalist at \"Linux Magazine\", criticized the Defective by Design campaign by the FSF as \"negative\" and \"juvenile\" and not being adequate for providing users with \"credible alternatives\" to proprietary software. FSF responded to this criticism by saying \"that there is a fundamental difference between speaking out against policies or actions and smear campaigns\", and \"that if one is taking an ethical position, it is justified, and often necessary, to not only speak about the benefits of freedom but against acts of dispossession and disenfranchisement.\"\n\nThe free software movement has become recognized as a global cultural movement, and the Free Software Foundation has become recognized as an industry player in software, publishing, economics, jurisprudence, politics, and other cultural realms.\n\nKey players and industries that have made honorific mention and awards include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1459381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1459381", "title": "Haplography", "text": "Haplography\n\nHaplography (from Greek: haplo- 'single' + -graphy 'writing'), also known as lipography, is a scribal or typographical error where a letter or group of letters that should be written twice is written once. It is not to be confused with haplology, where a phoneme is omitted to prevent two similar sounds from occurring consecutively: the former is a textual error, while the latter is a phonological process. \n\nIn English, a common haplographical mistake is the rendering of consecutive letters between morphemes as a single letter. Many commonly misspelled words have this form. For example, \"misspell\" is often misspelled as \"mispell\". The etymology of the word misspell is the affix \"mis-\" plus the root \"spell\", their bound morpheme has two consecutive s's, one of which is often erroneously omitted. The opposite of haplography is dittography. \n\nOther examples of words liable to be written haplographically in different languages are: German \"rollladen\" (\"shutters\", from \"roll\" + \"laden\") which requires an uncommon sequence of three \"l\"-s and is often spelt \"rolladen\", or Arabic \"takyīf\" تكييف (\"air conditioning\"), which would require a sequence of two semivowels \"y\" (one as a true semivowel, and another as a device to mark long \"ī\") and is often spelt as \"takīf\" تكيف, with only one.\n\nThe term \"haplography\" is commonly used in the field of textual criticism to refer to the phenomenon of a scribe's, copyist's or translator's inadvertently skipping from one word or phrase to a similar word or phrase further on in the text, and omitting everything in between. It is considered to be a form of parablepsis.\n"}
{"id": "956730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=956730", "title": "Haptic communication", "text": "Haptic communication\n\nHaptic communication is a branch of nonverbal communication that refers to the ways in which people and animals communicate and interact via the sense of touch. Touch or haptics, from the ancient Greek word \"haptikos\" is extremely important for communication; it is vital for survival. The sense of touch allows one to experience different sensations such as: pleasure, pain, heat, or cold. One of the most significant aspects of touch is the ability to convey and enhance physical intimacy. The sense of touch is the fundamental component of haptic communication for interpersonal relationships. Touch can be categorized in many terms such as positive, playful, control, ritualistic, task-related or unintentional. It can be both sexual (kissing is one example that some perceived as sexual), and platonic (such as hugging or a Handshake).\n\nTouch is the earliest sense to develop in the fetus. The development of an infant's haptic senses and how it relates to the development of the other senses such as vision has been the target of much research. Human babies have been observed to have enormous difficulty surviving if they do not possess a sense of touch, even if they retain sight and hearing. Infants who can perceive through touch, even without sight and hearing, tend to fare much better.\n\nSimilarly to infants, in chimpanzees the sense of touch is highly developed. As newborns they see and hear poorly but cling strongly to their mothers. Harry Harlow conducted a controversial study involving rhesus monkeys and observed that monkeys reared with a \"terry cloth mother\", a wire feeding apparatus wrapped in softer terry cloth which provided a level of tactile stimulation and comfort, were considerably more emotionally stable as adults than those with a mere wire mother. For his experiment, he presented the infants with a clothed surrogate mother and a wire surrogate mother which held a bottle with food. It turns out that the rhesus monkeys spent most of their time with the terry cloth mother, over the wire surrogate with a bottle of food, which indicates that they preferred touch, warmth, and comfort over sustenance.\n\nStriking, pushing, pulling, pinching, kicking, strangling and hand-to-hand fighting are forms of touch in the context of physical abuse. In a sentence like \"I never touched him/her\" or \"Don't you dare to touch him/her\" the term touch may be meant as euphemism for either physical abuse or sexual touching. The word touch has many other metaphorical uses. One can be emotionally touched, referring to an action or object that evokes an emotional response. To say \"I was touched by your letter\" implies the reader felt a strong emotion when reading it. It usually does not include anger, disgust or other forms of emotional rejection unless used in a sarcastic manner. Stoeltje (2003) wrote about how Americans are ‘losing touch’ with this important communication skill. During a study conducted by University of Miami School of Medicine, Touch Research Institutes, American children were said to be more aggressive than their French counterparts while playing at a playground. It was noted that French women touched their children more often than the American parents.\n\nHeslin outlines five haptic categories:\n\nThe intent of a touch is not always exclusive and touching can evolve to each one of Heslin’s categories.\n\nManagers should know the effectiveness of using touch while communicating to subordinates, but need to be cautious and understand how touch can be misunderstood. A hand on the shoulder for one person may mean a supportive gesture, while it could mean a sexual advance to another person. Working with others and using touch to communicate, a manager needs to be aware of each person’s touch tolerance.\n\nHenley’s (1977) research found that a person in power is more likely to touch a subordinate, but the subordinate is not free to touch in kind. Touch is a powerful nonverbal communication tool and this different standard between a superior and subordinate can lead to confusion whether the touch is motivated by dominance or intimacy according to Borisoff and Victor.\n\nWalton stated in his book that touching is the ultimate expression of closeness or confidence between two people, but not seen often in business or formal relationships. Touching stresses how special the message is that is being sent by the initiator. \"If a word of praise is accompanied by a touch on the shoulder, that’s the gold star on the ribbon,\" wrote Walton.\n\nMoving from one haptic category to another can become blurred by culture. There are many areas in the United States where a touch on the forearm is accepted as socially correct and polite. However, in the Midwest, this is not always an acceptable behavior.\n\nThe initial connection to another person in a professional setting usually starts off with a touch, specifically a handshake. A person's handshake can speak volumes about them and their personality. Chiarella (2006) wrote an article for Esquire magazine explaining to the predominantly male readership how handshakes differ from person to person and how they send nonverbal messages. He mentioned that holding the grip longer than two seconds will result in a stop in the verbal conversation, thus the nonverbal will override the verbal communication.\n\nJones explained communication with touch as the most intimate and involving form which helps people to keep good relationships with others. His study with Yarbrough covered touch sequences and individual touches.\n\nTouch sequences fall into two different types, repetitive and strategic. Repetitive is when one person touches and the other person reciprocates. The majority of these touches are considered positive. Strategic touching is a series of touching usually with an ulterior or hidden motive thus making them seem to be using touch as a game to get someone to do something for them.\n\nMore common than the sequential touches are the individual or single touches. They must be read by using the total context of what was said, the nature of the relationship and what kind of social setting was involved when the person was touched.\n\nYarbrough designed a blueprint for how to touch. She designated the different body areas as to whether they are 'touchable' or not. Non-vulnerable body parts (NVBP) are the hand, arm, shoulder and upper back, and vulnerable body parts (VBP) are all other body regions.\n\nCivil inattention is defined as the polite way to manage interaction with strangers by not engaging in any interpersonal communication or needing to respond to a stranger’s touch. Goffman uses an elevator study to explain this phenomenon. It is uncommon for people to look at, talk to, or touch the person next to them. While it may be so crowded that they 'touch' another person, they will often maintain an expressionless demeanor so not to affect those around them.\n\nIt is more acceptable for women to touch than men in social or friendship settings, possibly because of the inherent dominance of the person touching over the person being touched. Whitcher and Fisher conducted a study to see whether therapeutic touch to reduce anxiety differed between the sexes. A nurse was told to touch patients for one minute while the patients looked at a pamphlet during a routine preoperative procedure. Females reacted positively to the touch, whereas males did not. It was surmised that males equated the touch to being treated as inferior or dependent.\n\nTouching among family members has been found to affect the behavior of those involved. Various factors are at work within a family setting. As a child grows older, the amount of touching by the parent decreases.\n\nBoys distance themselves from their parents at an earlier age than girls. There is more touching with the same sex parent than with cross-sex parents.\n\nA study of nonverbal communication on how men 'converse' in bars shows that women like men to touch, but it is their touching of other men that intrigues them. The men who are touching others are perceived as having a higher status and social power than those that aren't touching others.\n\nThe study found that women were more receptive to men who demanded the most social space, and that when a woman comes into a bar, men will move their drinks far apart to signal to her that they have space in their 'domain' for them.\n\nThe primary nonverbal behavior that has the biggest effect on interpersonal relationships is touch.\n\nThe amount of touching increases as a relationship moves from impersonal to personal.\n\nThree areas of public touch between couples have been studied: the amount of touch between a couple in the initial stages of a romantic relationship, how much touching goes on between the couple and the extent of touching with the amount of touch men and women displayed and who initiated the touch and when they initiated it.\n\nPublic touch can serve as a ‘tie sign’ that shows others that your partner is “taken”. When a couple is holding hands, putting their arms around each other, this is a ‘tie sign’ showing others that you are together. The use of ‘tie signs’ are used more often by couples in the dating and courtship stages than between their married counterparts according to Burgoon, Buller, and Woodall.\n\nStudies have also shown a difference between the sexes on who touches when. In the initial stages of a relationship, men often follow socially prescribed gender roles. Patterson indicated that men fulfilling this social role would touch more and after initial touch in casual relationships and as the relationship became more intimate during serious dating or marriage relationships, women would touch more. American culture still dictates that men ‘make the first move’ in the context of a dating relationship.\n\nTouching between married couples may help maintain good health. In a study by University of Virginia psychologist Jim Coan, women under stress showed signs of immediate relief by merely holding their husband’s hand. This seemed to be effective when the woman was part of a satisfying marriage.\n\nTouching in intimate relationships may also be violent at times. McEwan and Johnson categorize violent touch in relationships into two categories: intimate terrorism and common couple violence. Intimate terrorism is characterized by a need to control or dominate a relationship, escalation over time, high frequency and severity. Common couple violence, on the other hand, is often a result of minor conflict. Common couple violence is less frequent and severe, and does not escalate over time. There are two major differences between intimate terrorism and common couple violence. Common couple violence comes in episodes rather than escalating over time. One study in 1999 by Geiser gave further evidence to this notion and reported that in fact males are significantly more likely to engage in nonverbal aggression and violence. Persons seeking help with violent intimate relationships may contact the National Domestic Violence Hotline or The National Violence Prevention Network.\n\nAccording to Givens (1999), the process of nonverbal communication or negotiation is to send and receive messages in an attempt to gain someone’s approval or love. Courtship, which may lead to love, is defined as a nonverbal message designed to attract sexual partners. During courtship, we exchange nonverbal communication gestures to tell each other to come nearer and nearer until we touch. Essential signals in the path to intimacy include facial nuzzles, kissing and caressing each other.\n\nCourtship has five phases which include the attention phase, recognition phase, conversation phase, touching phase, and the love-making phase. Haptics takes place more during the last two phases.\n\nThe touching phase:\n\"First touch\": Is likely to be more “accidental” than premeditated by touching a neutral body part and where the recipient either accepts the touch or rejects it through body movement.\n\n\"Hugging\": The embrace is the most basic way of telling someone that you love them and possibly need them too.\n\n\"Intention to touch\": A nonverbal communication haptic code or cue is the intention behind it. Reaching your hand across the table to a somewhat unknown person is used as a way to show readiness to touch.\n\n\"Kissing\": Moving in concert by turning heads to allow for the lips to touch is the final part of the fourth stage of courtship, the kiss.\n\nThe final phase, love-making, which includes tactile stimulation during foreplay known as the light or protopathic touch. Any feelings of fear or apprehension may be calmed through other touching like kissing, nuzzling, and a gentle massage.\n\nTouch research conducted by Jones and Yarbrough (1985) revealed 18 different meanings of touch, grouped in seven types: Positive affect (emotion), playfulness, control, ritual, hybrid (mixed), task-related, and accidental touch.\n\nThese touches communicate positive emotions and occur mostly between persons who have close relationships. These touches can be further classified as support, appreciation, inclusion, sexual interest or intent, and affection. Research has shown that hugging can reduce levels of the stress hormone cortisol.\n\n\"Support\": Serve to nurture, reassure, or promise protection. These touches generally occur in situations which either virtually require or make it clearly preferable that one person show concern for another who is experiencing distress.\n\n\"Appreciation\": Express gratitude for something another person has done.\n\n\"Inclusion\": Draw attention to the act of being together and suggest psychological closeness.\n\n\"Sexual\": Express physical attraction or sexual interest.\n\n\"Affection\": Express generalized positive regard beyond mere acknowledgment of the other.\n\nThese touches serve to lighten an interaction. These touches communicate a double message since they always involve a play signal, either verbal or nonverbal, which indicates the behavior is not to be taken seriously. These touches can be further classified as affectionate and aggressive.\n\n\"Playful affection\": Serve to lighten interaction. The seriousness of the positive message is diminished by the play signal. These touches indicate teasing and are usually mutual.\n\n\"Playful aggression\": Like playful affection these touches are used to serve to lighten interaction, however, the play signal indicates aggression. These touches are initiated, rather than mutual.\n\nThese touches serve to direct the behavior, attitude, or feeling state of the recipient. The key feature of these touches is that almost all of the touches are initiated by the person who attempts influence. These touches can be further classified as compliance, attention-getting, and announcing a response.\n\n\"Compliance\": Attempts to direct behavior of another person, and often, by implication, to influence attitudes or feelings.\n\n\"Attention-getting\": Serve to direct the touch recipient’s perceptual focus toward something.\n\n\"Announcing a response\": Call attention to and emphasize a feeling state of initiator; implicitly requests affect response from another.\n\nThese touches consist of greeting and departure touches. They serve no other function than to help make transitions in and out of focused interaction.\n\n\"Greeting\": Serve as part of the act of acknowledging another at the opening of an encounter.\n\n\"Departure\": Serve as a part of the act of closing an encounter\n\nThese touches involve two or more of the meanings described above. These touches can be further classified as greeting/affection and departure/affection.\n\n\"Greeting/affection\": Express affection and acknowledgement of the initiation of an encounter\n\n\"Departure/affection\": Express affection and serve to close an encounter\n\nThese touches are directly associated with the performance of a task. These touches can be further classified as:\n\nThese touches are perceived as unintentional and have no meaning. They consist mainly of brushes.\nResearch by Martin in a retailing context found that male and female shoppers who were accidentally touched from behind by other shoppers left a store earlier than people who had not been touched and evaluated brands more negatively, resulting in the Accidental Interpersonal Touch effect \n\nThe amount of touching that occurs within a culture is largely based on the relative high context or low context of the culture.\n\nIn a high contact culture, many things are not verbally stated but are express through physical touch. For instance, Cheek kissing is very common method of greeting in the Latin Americas, but among European individuals it is an uncommon form of greeting. Different cultures have different display rules, the degree with which emotions are expressed. Cultural display rules also affect the degree to which individuals share their personal space, gaze and physical contact during interactions. In a High contact culture, such as South America, Latin America, Southern Europe, Africa, Russia, Middle East and others, people tend to share more physical contact. High contact cultures communicate through long gazes, long hugs, and share a decrease in proxemics.\n\nLow contact cultures such as: The United States, Canada, Northern Europe, Australia & New Zealand and Asia prefers infrequent touching, larger physical distance, indirect body orientations (during interaction) along with little share gazes. In the Thai culture, kissing a friend on the cheek is less common than in the Latin Americas. Remland and Jones (1995) studied groups of people communicating and found that in England (8%), France (5%) and the Netherlands (4%), touching was rare compared to the Italian (14%) and Greek (12.5%) sample.\n\nFrequency of touch also varies significantly between different cultures. Harper refers to several studies, one of which examined touching in coffee houses. During a one-hour sitting 180 touchings were observed for Puerto Ricans, 110 for French, none for English and 2 for Americans. (Harper, 297). In order to know if someone was touching more frequently than normal it would be necessary to first know what is normal in that culture. In high touch countries a kiss on the cheek is considered a polite greeting while in Sweden it may be considered presumptuous. Jandt relates that two men holding hands will in some countries be a sign of friendly affection, whereas in the United States the same tactile code would probably be interpreted as a symbol of homosexual love (85).\n\nRecently, researchers have shown that touch communicates distinct emotions such as anger, fear, happiness, sympathy, love, and gratitude. Moreover, the accuracy with which subjects were capable of communicating the emotions were commensurate with facial and vocal displays of emotion.\n\nDepression has been linked to touch deprivation in adults and research has established associations between touch deprivation and eating disorders. Men have been found more likely to suffer from touch deprivation than women due to stronger social prohibitions against same-sex touching among adult males.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8929321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8929321", "title": "Ishvarapranidhana", "text": "Ishvarapranidhana\n\nĪśvarapraṇidhāna \"commitment to the Īśvara (\"Lord\")\" is also one of five Niyama (ethical observances) in Hinduism and Yoga.\n\nĪśvarapraṇidhāna is a Sanskrit compound word composed of two words \"īśvara\" (ईश्वर) and \"praṇidhāna\" (प्रणिधान). \"Īśvara\" (sometimes spelled Īshvara) literally means \"owner of best, beautiful\", \"ruler of choices, blessings, boons\", or \"chief of suitor, lover\". Later religious literature in Sanskrit broadens the reference of this term to refer to God, the Absolute Brahman, True Self, or Unchanging Reality. \"Praṇidhāna\" is used to mean a range of senses including, \"laying on, fixing, applying, attention (paid to), meditation, desire, prayer.\" In a religious translation of Patanjali's Eight-Limbed Yoga, the word \"Īśvarapraṇidhāna\" means committing what one does to a Lord, who is elsewhere in the Yoga Sūtras defined as a special person (puruṣa) who is the first teacher (paramaguru) and is free of all hindrances and karma. In more secular terms, it means acceptance, teachability, relaxing expectations, adventurousness. \n\n\"Īśvarapraṇidhāna\" is mentioned in the Yoga Sūtras of Patañjali as follows:\n\nSanskrit: <br>\n– Yoga Sutras I.23\n\nThis transliterates as, \"Śauca, Santoṣa, Tapas, Svādhyāya and Īśvarapraṇidhāna are the Niyamas\". This is the second limb in Patañjali's eight limb Yoga philosophy is called \"niyamas\" which include virtuous habits, behaviors and ethical observances (the \"dos\"). The Yoga Sutras of Patañjali use the term \"Īśvara\" in 11 verses: I.23 through I.29, II.1, II.2, II.32 and II.45. Patañjali defines \"Īśvara\" (Sanskrit: ईश्वर) in verse 24 of Book 1, as \"a special Self (पुरुषविशेष, \"puruṣa-viśeṣa\")\",\n\nSanskrit: <br>\n– Yoga Sutras I.24\n\nThis sutra of Yoga philosophy adds the characteristics of \"Īśvara\" as that special Self which is unaffected (अपरामृष्ट, \"aparamrsta\") by one's obstacles/hardships (क्लेश, \"klesha\"), one's circumstances created by past or one's current actions (कर्म, \"karma\"), one's life fruits (विपाक, \"vipâka\"), and one's psychological dispositions/intentions (आशय, ashaya).\n\nĪśvarapraṇidhāna is listed as the fifth niyama by Patañjali. In other forms of yoga, it is the tenth niyama. In Hinduism, the Niyamas are the \"do list\" and the Yamas are the \"don't do\" list, both part of an ethical theory for life.\n\nHindu scholars have debated and commented on who or what is \"Īśvara\". These commentaries range from defining Īśhvara from a \"personal god\" to \"special self\" to \"anything that has spiritual significance to the individual\". Ian Whicher explains that while Patañjali's terse verses can be interpreted both as theistic or non-theistic, Patañjali's concept of Īśvara in Yoga philosophy functions as a \"transformative catalyst or guide for aiding the yogin on the path to spiritual emancipation\". Desmarais states that Īśvara is a metaphysical concept in Yogasutras. \"Īśvarapraṇidhāna\" is investing, occupying the mind with this metaphysical concept. Yogasutra does not mention deity anywhere, nor does it mention any devotional practices (\"Bhakti\"), nor does it give Īśvara characteristics typically associated with a deity. In yoga sutras it is a logical construct, states Desmarais. \n\nIn verses I.27 and I.28, yogasutras associate Īśvara with the concept \"Pranava\" (प्रणव, ॐ) and recommends that it be repeated and contemplated in one of the limbs of eight step yoga. This is seen as a means to begin the process of dissociating from external world, connecting with one's inner world, focusing and getting one-minded in Yoga.\n\nWhicher states that Patañjali's concept of Īśvara is neither a creator God nor the universal Absolute of Advaita Vedanta school of Hinduism. Whicher also notes that some theistic sub-schools of Vedanta philosophy of Hinduism, inspired by the Yoga school, prefer to explain the term \"Īśvara\" as the \"Supreme Being that rules over the cosmos and the individuated beings\". However, in the Yoga Sūtras of Patañjali, and extensive literature of Yoga school of Hinduism, Īśvara is not a Supreme Ruler, Īśvara is not an ontological concept, rather it has been an abstract concept to meet the pedagogical needs for human beings accepting Yoga philosophy as a way of life.\n\n\"Īśvarapraṇidhāna\" has been interpreted to mean the contemplation of a deity in some sub-schools of Hinduism. Zimmer in his 1951 Indian philosophies book noted that the Bhakti sub-schools, and its texts such as the Bhagavad Gita, refer to Isvara as a Divine Lord, or the deity of specific Bhakti sub-school. Modern sectarian movements have emphasized Ishvara as Supreme Lord; for example, Hare Krishna movement considers Krishna as the Lord, Arya Samaj and Brahmoism movements – influenced by Christian and Islamic movements in India – conceptualize Ishvara as a monotheistic all powerful Lord. In traditional theistic sub-schools of Hinduism, such as the Vishishtadvaita Vedanta of Ramanuja and Dvaita Vedanta of Madhva, Ishvara is identified as Lord Vishnu/Narayana, that is distinct from the \"Prakriti\" (material world) and \"Purusa\" (soul, spirit). In all these sub-schools, \"Īśvarapraṇidhāna\" is the contemplation of the respective deity.\n\nRadhakrishnan and Moore state that these variations in Īśvara concept is consistent with Hinduism's notion of \"personal God\" where the \"ideals or manifestation of individual's highest Self values that are esteemed\". \"Īśvarapraṇidhāna\", or contemplation of Īśvara as a deity is useful, suggests Zaehner, because it helps the individual become more like Īśhvara. Riepe, and others, state that the literature of Yoga school of Hinduism neither explicitly defines nor implicitly implies, any creator-god; rather, it leaves the individual with freedom and choice of conceptualizing Īśvara in any meaningful manner he or she wishes, either in the form of \"deity of one's choice\" or \"formless Brahman (Absolute Reality, Universal Principle, true special Self)\". The need and purpose of Īśvara, whatever be the abstraction of it as \"special kind of Self\" or \"personal deity\", is not an end in itself, rather it is a means to \"perfect the practice of concentration\" in one's journey through the eight limbs of Yoga philosophy.\n\nLarson suggests Īśvara in \"Īśvarapraṇidhāna\" can be understood through its chronological roots. Yoga school of Hinduism developed on the foundation of Samkhya school of Hinduism. In the non-theistic/atheistic Samkhya school, \"Purusa\" is a central metaphysical concept, and envisioned as \"pure consciousness\". Further, \"Purusa\" is described by Samkhya school to exist in a \"plurality of pure consciousness\" in its epistemological theory (rather than to meet the needs of its ontological theory). In the Yoga Sutras, Patanjali defines \"Īśhvara\" as a \"special Purusa\" in verse I.24, with certain characteristics. Īśhvara, then may be understood as one among the plurality of \"pure consciousness\", with characteristics as defined by Patanjali in verse I.24.\n\nVan Ness, and others, suggests that the concepts of Īśvara, Īśvara-pranidhana and other limbs of Yoga may be pragmatically understood as \"spiritual but not religious\".\n\n"}
{"id": "6308135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6308135", "title": "Jean Bricaud", "text": "Jean Bricaud\n\nJean (or Joanny) Bricaud (February 11, 1881, Neuville-sur-Ain, Ain – February 24, 1934), also known as Tau Jean II, was a French student of the occult and esoteric matters. Bricaud was heavily involved in the French neo-Gnostic movement. He was consecrated a Gnostic bishop on July 21, 1913 by bishop Louis-Marie-François Giraud. He was the Patriarch of the \"Église Gnostique Universelle\" (French for \"Universal Gnostic Church\") and a central figure in the various lines of the apostolic succession of subsequent Gnostic churches, as well as a spiritual heir of Jules Doinel (Valentinus II). From 1916 he was head of the \"Ordre Martiniste\". He was a friend of the occultists Papus and August Vandekerkhove.\n\n"}
{"id": "16085950", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16085950", "title": "Jocelin of Soissons", "text": "Jocelin of Soissons\n\nJocelin of Soissons (died 24 October 1152) was a French theologian, a philosophical opponent of Abelard. He became bishop of Soissons, and is known also as a composer, with two pieces in the \"Codex Calixtinus\". He was teaching at the Paris cathedral school in the early 1110s.\n\nHe began work on the present Soissons Cathedral; it only took shape in the 1190s.\n\nAbbot Suger addressed his history of Louis the Fat to him. In the papal politics of the late 1120s and 1130s, Suger counted Jocelin, at Soissons from 1126, as a supporter of Pope Innocent II against antipope Anacletus II, along with other bishops of northern France.\n\nAs bishop he founded Longpont Abbey in 1131, a Cistercian monastery supported by Bernard of Clairvaux; Bernard was a correspondent. He favoured the Knights Templars, having participated in the Council of Troyes that gave them full standing. He was present at the 1146 Council of Arras, a probable occasion for the planning of the Second Crusade.\n\nThe \"De generibus et speciebus\" has been attributed to him. Now scholars call its author Pseudo-Joscelin. It may be by a student of his. The \"Metalogicus\" of John of Salisbury attributed to him the view that universals exist only in the collection, not the individuals.\n\n"}
{"id": "16176815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16176815", "title": "John Gough (natural philosopher)", "text": "John Gough (natural philosopher)\n\nJohn Gough (; 17 January 1757 – 28 July 1825) was a blind English natural and experimental philosopher who is known for his own investigations as well as the influence he had on both John Dalton and William Whewell.\n\nJohn Gough was born in Kendal, Westmorland, on 17 January 1757, the eldest child of Nathan Gough (d. 1800) and his wife, Susannah (1731–1798). Gough's father was a wool dyer and shearman dyer, while his mother was the eldest daughter of John Wilson, a prosperous farmer with an estate on the west bank of Windermere. Nathan and Susannah Gough had three sons and four daughters, one of whom died in infancy. The family belonged to the Society of Friends, whose communities flourished in Cumberland and Westmorland during this period. Before he was three years old, Gough was attacked by smallpox and lost his sight. In his childhood he expended much effort in developing his sense of touch and hearing, and appears to have been especially eager to learn to recognize animals by touch.\n\nIn 1778 at the age of twenty-one, Gough became a resident pupil of John Slee, a mathematical master at Mungrisedale, Cumberland. Gough stayed at Mungrisedale for eighteen months, following the traditional curriculum up to the elementary principles of calculus. Returning home he took up calculus, with his second sister, Dorothy Gough (b. 1768), acting as his reader. From around 1782 to 1790 he enjoyed the acquaintance of John Dalton, a cousin of George Bewley and also a lakeland Quaker, who had come to Kendal to take up a position in Bewley's school. Dalton assisted Gough by reading, writing, and making calculations and diagrams on his behalf. In return Dalton, who later became one of the most eminent figures in nineteenth-century science, was tutored by Gough in Latin and Greek. Dalton later referred to Gough as a \"prodigy in scientific attainments.\"\n\nIn 1800 at the parish church of Kendal, Gough married Mary (d. 1858), daughter of Thomas Harrison of Crosthwaite, Cumberland. On their marriage they moved to Middleshaw in the hamlet of Old Hutton. John and Mary Gough had nine children, one of whom, Thomas Gough (18041880) became a surgeon in Kendal.\n\nIn 1812 Gough had a house, which he named Fowl Ing, built for himself and his family on the south-west slope of Benson Knot, a hill 2 miles north-east of Kendal. At about the same time he began to act as a private tutor of mathematics to a select group of pupils from northern England, whom he prepared for university. The subsequent fame of his students superseded his own celebrity. A number of them went on to achieve high distinction in the mathematical tripos, and subsequently in the hierarchies of university and church. One of Gough's first students was William Whewell, who was with him in 1812 and later described Gough as \"a very extraordinary person.\"\n\nFrom 1823, John Gough suffered repeated attacks of epilepsy. He died on 28 July 1825, leaving his wife and seven of their children. He was buried in the parish churchyard of Kendal.\n\nGough had wide-ranging scientific interests. He published papers in natural history, mechanics, mathematics, chemistry, and experimental physics. One of his most interesting pieces of work was an investigation into the properties of natural rubber or Caoutchouc. He was the first to describe the heat released when a rubber band is quickly stretched, the heat being detected by the lips to which the band is pressed. When stretched rubber is heated, it contracts, a reversal of the normal behaviour of materials when heated. Gough published these results, and others, in a letter to the Manchester Literary and Philosophical Society in 1804. King has written that through Dalton, Gough exerted an indirect influence years later on James Joule, who undertook his own investigations into rubber, elasticity, and energy changes, and specifically referred to Gough's earlier studies. The effect eventually became known as the Gough–Joule effect.\n\nGough's most substantive enquiry was \"An investigation of the method whereby men judge by the ear of the position of sonorous bodies relative to their own persons\", which appeared in 1802 during an ongoing controversy with another former Quaker, the noted natural philosopher Thomas Young, over the nature of compound sounds.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1231888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1231888", "title": "Ján Kollár", "text": "Ján Kollár\n\nJán Kollár (29 July 1793 in Mošovce (Mosóc), Kingdom of Hungary, Habsburg Monarchy, now Slovakia – 24 January 1852 in Vienna, Austrian Empire) was a Slovak writer (mainly poet), archaeologist, scientist, politician, and main ideologist of Pan-Slavism.\n\nHe studied at the Lutheran Lyceum in Pressburg (Pozsony, Kingdom of Hungary, now Bratislava, Slovakia). In 1817 he enrolled in the University of Jena. His attendance at the Wartburgfest (18 October 1817) has since been credited as being a formative experience with regards to his views on Pan-Slavism\n\nHe spent most of his adult life as a chaplain to the populous but poor Slovak Lutheran community in Pest (Kingdom of Hungary, today part of Budapest, Hungary). From 1849, he was a professor of Slavic archeology at the University of Vienna, and several times he also acted as a counselor to the Austrian government for issues around the Slovaks. He entered the Slovak national movement in its first phase.\n\nHis museum (since 1974) in Mošovce was installed in the former granary, which was the only masoned part of Kollár's otherwise wooden birth-house. The rest of the house burned down in a fire on 16 August 1863. In 2009 was built a replica of the original Kollár's birth-house, which is now a museum.\n\nHe worked out a conception of Slav reciprocity. He admitted 4 standard languages: Russian, Polish, Czechoslovak and Serbo-Croatian.\n\nBesides writing poetry he also wrote technical literature.\n\n\nIn this work he worked out the conception of Slavic reciprocity. He expressed his feelings to a woman but this love had transformed to a love to his homeland. The main thematics of this work are:\n•love \n•patriotism\n\nIt is divided into 5 chapters and it has a foreword.\n\nPředzpěv (Prelude)\nThe author expressed his fears that the Slovaks will disappear from the face of Europe like other Slavic tribes before. He asked the Slovaks to ask for help from the Russian nation.\n\n1. Sála \nThis part contains love sonnets. Kollár glorifies his love Mína, depicting her as an ideal of a Slavic maid, the daughter of goddess Sláva.\n\n2. Labe, Rén, Vltava\nIn these parts, the author takes us to places where Slavic tribes lived before. He is disappointed because these areas belong to foreign countries now.\n\n3. Dunaj\nThe author arrives to Slovakia, disillusioned by the poverty of this area. He is highly disappointed and longs for death.\n\n4. Léthé\n\n5. Acheron\nMína becomes a fairy and takes the author to Slavic heaven and hell.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56044081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56044081", "title": "Keikhosro Khoroush", "text": "Keikhosro Khoroush\n\nKeikhosro Khoroush (Persian: , born 1941) is an Iranian painter and calligrapher. He graduated at the first rank in the College of Art, University of Tehran. He has been one of the most realistic Iranian painters and one of the great masters in Persian calligraphy ( Nastaʿlīq ) since 1980. He was awarded the title of the everlasting people in 2005.\n\nKhoroush was born in April 1941 in Tehran, Iran.\n\nHe studied in the field of mathematics at high-school but he liked arts and preferred studying painting in the university. So, he took and passed the entrance examination of the University of Tehran and earned first rank in 1961, then graduated with the same rank in 1966. He then went to U.K. and France on scholarships and visited art galleries and museums and researched on the realism painting there.\n\nHe started learning painting under the supervision of Master Ali Mohammad Heydarian (1896-1990). Khoroush became one of Heydarian's most important students. who was a founder and first professor in the Faculty of Fine Arts in the University of Tehran (established 1940) and was the most important student of Kamal-ol-Molk.\n\nAt the same time, he enrolled at the Iran Calligraphers Association. He got started learning Persian calligraphy under the supervision of Great Master Hossein Mirkhani (the Founder of Iran Calligraphers Association) and was the first person to get Momtaz Grade of the Association of Calligraphers in Iran.\n\nIn 1973, he got a master's degree and was successful to taking \"great master\" degree of Iranian Calligraphy Association in 1977. Finally, he became one of the two great masters in Persian calligraphy since this time and has calligraphied up to 40 books since the 1960s. Based on statistics, his \"Divan-e-Hafez\" book has been the important calligraphied book in Iran.\n\nOver more than 1000 of his paintings and several art works of his calligraphy (uncountable), are available in Iran and abroad of Iran (in the museums and personal collections) and sold in auctions like Tehran auction.\n\nHe is a contemporary artist and has been artistically active in the past 60 years, Almost all his paintings are based on oil and watercolor.\n\nIn his paintings, Keikhsoro Khoroush draws Iranian landscapes and portraits of people.\n\nHe is interested in creating a form of Persian calligraphy called \"chalipa\", but there are many Persian calligraphy art works in other forms.\n\nIn his books, he was interested in calligraphy, the books of poets or important cultural persons, in fact, every page of his books are about Persian calligraphy ( Nastaʿlīq ) artworks.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "314336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=314336", "title": "Lewis Mumford", "text": "Lewis Mumford\n\nLewis Mumford (October 19, 1895 – January 26, 1990) was an American historian, sociologist, philosopher of technology, and literary critic. Particularly noted for his study of cities and urban architecture, he had a broad career as a writer. Mumford was influenced by the work of Scottish theorist Sir Patrick Geddes and worked closely with his associate the British sociologist Victor Branford.\n\nMumford was also a contemporary and friend of Frank Lloyd Wright, Clarence Stein, Frederic Osborn, Edmund N. Bacon, and Vannevar Bush.\n\nMumford was born in Flushing, Queens, New York and graduated from Stuyvesant High School in 1912. He studied at the City College of New York and The New School for Social Research, but became ill with tuberculosis and never finished his degree. In 1918 he joined the navy to serve in World War I and was assigned as a radio electrician. He was discharged in 1919 and became associate editor of \"The Dial\", an influential modernist literary journal. He later worked for \"The New Yorker\" where he wrote architectural criticism and commentary on urban issues.\n\nMumford's earliest books in the field of literary criticism have had a lasting impact on contemporary American literary criticism. \"The Golden Day\" contributed to a resurgence in scholarly research on the work of 1850s American transcendentalist authors and \"Herman Melville: A Study of His Life and Vision\" effectively launched a revival in the study of the work of Herman Melville. Soon after, with the book \"The Brown Decades\", he began to establish himself as an authority in American architecture and urban life, which he interpreted in a social context.\n\nIn his early writings on urban life, Mumford was optimistic about human abilities and wrote that the human race would use electricity and mass communication to build a better world for all humankind. He would later take a more pessimistic stance. His early architectural criticism also helped to bring wider public recognition to the work of Henry Hobson Richardson, Louis Sullivan and Frank Lloyd Wright.\n\nIn 1963, Mumford received the Frank Jewett Mather Award for art criticism from the College Art Association. Mumford received the Presidential Medal of Freedom in 1964. In 1975 Mumford was made an honorary Knight Commander of the Order of the British Empire (KBE). In 1976, he was awarded the Prix mondial Cino Del Duca. In 1986, he was awarded the National Medal of Arts.\n\nHe served as the architectural critic for \"The New Yorker\" magazine for over 30 years. His 1961 book, \"The City in History\", received the National Book Award.\n\nLewis Mumford died at the age of 94 at his home in Amenia, New York on January 26, 1990. Nine years later it was listed on the National Register of Historic Places. His wife Sophia died in 1997, at age 97.\n\nIn his book \"The Condition of Man\", published in 1944, Mumford characterized his orientation toward the study of humanity as \"organic humanism\". The term is an important one because it sets limits on human possibilities, limits that are aligned with the nature of the human body. Mumford never forgot the importance of air quality, of food availability, of the quality of water, or the comfort of spaces, because all these things had to be respected if people were to thrive. Technology and progress could never become a runaway train in his reasoning, so long as organic humanism was there to act as a brake. Indeed, Mumford considered the human brain from this perspective, characterizing it as hyperactive, a good thing in that it allowed humanity to conquer many of nature's threats, but potentially a bad thing if it were not occupied in ways that stimulated it meaningfully. Mumford's respect for human \"nature\", that is to say, the natural characteristics of being human, provided him with a platform from which to assess technologies, and technics in general. Thus his criticism and counsel with respect to the city and with respect to the implementation of technology was fundamentally organized around the organic humanism to which he ascribed. It was from the perspective of organic humanism that Mumford eventually launched a critical assessment of Marshall McLuhan, who argued that the technology, not the natural environment, would ultimately shape the nature of humankind, a possibility that Mumford recognized, but only as a nightmare scenario.\n\nMumford believed that what defined humanity, what set human beings apart from other animals, was not primarily our use of tools (technology) but our use of language (symbols). He was convinced that the sharing of information and ideas amongst participants of primitive societies was completely natural to early humanity, and had obviously been the foundation of society as it became more sophisticated and complex. He had hopes for a continuation of this process of information \"pooling\" in the world as humanity moved into the future.\n\nMumford's choice of the word \"technics\" throughout his work was deliberate. For Mumford, technology is one part of technics. Using the broader definition of the Greek \"tekhne\", which means not only technology but also art, skill, and dexterity, technics refers to the interplay of social milieu and technological innovation—the \"wishes, habits, ideas, goals\" as well as \"industrial processes\" of a society. As Mumford writes at the beginning of \"Technics and Civilization\", \"other civilizations reached a high degree of technical proficiency without, apparently, being profoundly influenced by the methods and aims of technics.\"\n\nIn \"The Myth of the Machine Vol II: The Pentagon of Power\" (Chapter 12) (1970), Mumford criticizes the modern trend of technology, which emphasizes constant, unrestricted expansion, production, and replacement. He contends that these goals work against technical perfection, durability, social efficiency, and overall human satisfaction. Modern technology, which he called \"megatechnics\", fails to produce lasting, quality products by using devices such as consumer credit, installment buying, non-functioning and defective designs, planned obsolescence, and frequent superficial \"fashion\" changes. \"Without constant enticement by advertising,\" he writes, \"production would slow down and level off to normal replacement demand. Otherwise many products could reach a plateau of efficient design which would call for only minimal changes from year to year.\"\n\nHe uses his own refrigerator as an example, reporting that it \"has been in service for nineteen years, with only a single minor repair: an admirable job. Both automatic refrigerators for daily use and deepfreeze preservation are inventions of permanent value. ... [O]ne can hardly doubt that if biotechnic criteria were heeded, rather than those of market analysts and fashion experts, an equally good product might come forth from Detroit, with an equally long prospect of continued use.\"\n\nMumford was deeply concerned with the relationship between technics and bioviability. The latter term, not used by Mumford, characterizes an area's capability to support life up through its levels of complexity. Before the advent of technology, most areas of the planet were bioviable at some level or other; however, where certain forms of technology advance rapidly, bioviability decreases dramatically. Slag heaps, poisoned waters, parking lots, and concrete cities, for example, are extremely limited in terms of their bioviability, illustrated in the somewhat startling 1943 novel title \"A Tree Grows in Brooklyn\", and non-bioviable regions are common to cinema in the form of dystopias (e.g., \"Bladerunner\"). Mumford did not believe it was necessary for bioviability to collapse as technics advanced, however, because he held it was possible to create technologies that functioned in an ecologically responsible manner, and he called that sort of technology biotechnics. Mumford believed that biotechnic consciousness (and possibly even community) was emerging as a later stage in the evolution of Darwinian thinking about the nature of human life. He believed this was the sort of technics needed to shake off the suicidal drive of \"megatechnics.\" While Mumford recognized an ecological consciousness that traces back to the earliest communities, he regarded emerging biotechnics as a product of neo-Darwinian consciousness, as a post-industrial form of thinking, one that refuses to look away from the mutually-influencing relationship between the state of the living organism and the state of its environment. In Mumford's mind, the society organized around biotechnics would restrain its technology for the sake of that integral relationship.\n\nIn Mumford's understanding, the various technologies that arose in the megatechnic context have brought unintended and harmful side effects along with the obvious benefits they have bequeathed to us. He points out, for example, that the development of money (as a technology) created, as a side effect, a context for irrational accumulation of excess because it eliminated the burdensome aspects of object-wealth by making wealth abstract. In those eras when wealth was not abstract, plenitude had functioned as the organizing principle around its acquisition (i.e., wealth, measured in grains, lands, animals, to the point that one is satisfied, but not saddled with it). Money, which allows wealth to be conceived as pure quantity instead of quality, is an example of megatechnics, one which can spiral out of control. If Mumford is right in this conceptualization, historians and economists should be able to trace a relationship between the still-increasing abstraction of wealth and radical transformations with respect to wealth's distribution and role. And, indeed, it does appear that, alongside its many benefits, the movement toward electronic money has stimulated forms of economic stress and exploitation not yet fully understood and not yet come to their conclusion. A technology for distributing resources that was less given to abstract hoarding would be more suitable to a biotechnic conception of living.\n\nThus Mumford argued that the biotechnic society would not hold to the megatechnic delusion that technology must expand unceasingly, magnifying its own power and would shatter that delusion in order to create and preserve \"livability.\" Rather than the megatechnic pursuit of power, the biotechnic society would pursue what Mumford calls \"plenitude\"; that is, a homeostatic relationship between resources and needs. This notion of plenitude becomes clearer if we suggest that the biotechnic society would relate to its technology in the manner an animal relates to available food–under circumstances of natural satisfaction, the pursuit of technological advance would not simply continue \"for its own sake.\"\n\nAlongside the limiting effect of satisfaction amidst plenitude, the pursuit of technological advance would also be limited by its potentially negative effects upon the organism. Thus, in a biotechnic society, the quality of air, the quality of food, the quality of water, these would all be significant concerns that could limit any technological ambitions threatening to them. The anticipated negative value of noise, radiation, smog, noxious chemicals, and other technical by-products would significantly constrain the introduction of new technical innovation. In Mumford's words, a biotechnic society would direct itself toward \"qualitative richness, amplitude, spaciousness, and freedom from quantitative pressures and crowding. Self-regulation, self-correction, and self-propulsion are as much an integral property of organisms as nutrition, reproduction, growth, and repair.\" The biotechnic society would pursue balance, wholeness, and completeness; and this is what those individuals in pursuit of biotechnics would do as well.\n\nMumford's critique of the city and his vision of cities that are organized around the nature of human bodies, so essential to all Mumford's work on city life and urban design, is rooted in an incipient notion of biotechnics: \"livability,\" a notion which Mumford got from his mentor, Patrick Geddes.\n\nMumford used the term biotechnics in the later sections of \"The Pentagon of Power\", written in 1970. The term sits well alongside his early characterization of \"organic humanism,\" in that biotechnics represent the concrete form of technique that appeals to an organic humanist. When Mumford described biotechnics, automotive and industrial pollution had become dominant technological concerns, along with the fear of nuclear annihilation. Mumford recognized, however, that technology had even earlier produced a plethora of hazards, and that it would do so into the future. For Mumford, human hazards are rooted in a power-oriented technology that does not adequately respect and accommodate the essential nature of humanity. Mumford is stating implicitly, as others would later state explicitly, that contemporary human life understood in its ecological sense is out of balance because the technical parts of its ecology (guns, bombs, cars, drugs) have spiraled out of control, driven by forces peculiar to them rather than constrained by the needs of the species that created them. He believed that biotechnics was the emerging answer and the only hope that could be set out against the problem of megatechnics. It was an answer, he believed, that was already beginning to assert itself in his time.\n\nIt is true that Mumford's writing privileges the term \"biotechnics\" more than the \"biotechnic society.\" The reason is clear in the last sentence of \"The Pentagon of Power\" where he writes, \"for those of us who have thrown off the myth of the machine, the next move is ours: for the gates of the technocratic prison will open automatically, despite their rusty ancient hinges, as soon as we choose to walk out.\" Mumford believed that the biotechnic society was a desideratum—one that should guide his contemporaries as they walked out the doors of their megatechnic confines (he also calls them \"coffins\"). Thus he ends his narrative, as he well understood, at the beginning of another one: the possible revolution that gives rise to a biotechnic society, a quiet revolution, for Mumford, one that would arise from the biotechnic consciousness and actions of individuals. Mumford was an avid reader of Alfred North Whitehead's philosophy of the organism.\n\nA key idea, introduced in \"Technics and Civilization\" (1934) was that technology was twofold:\n\nMumford commonly criticized modern America's transportation networks as being \"monotechnic\" in their reliance on cars. Automobiles become obstacles for other modes of transportation, such as walking, bicycle and public transit, because the roads they use consume so much space and are such a danger to people. Mumford explains that the thousands of maimed and dead each year as a result of automobile accidents are a \"ritual sacrifice\" the American society makes because of its extreme reliance on highway transport.\n\nAlso discussed at length in \"Technics and Civilization\" is Mumford's division of human civilization into three distinct epochs (following concepts originated by Patrick Geddes):\n\nMumford also refers to large hierarchical organizations as \"megamachines\"—a machine using humans as its components. These organizations characterize Mumford's stage theory of civilization. The most recent megamachine manifests itself, according to Mumford, in modern technocratic nuclear powers—Mumford used the examples of the Soviet and United States power complexes represented by the Kremlin and the Pentagon, respectively. The builders of the pyramids, the Roman Empire and the armies of the World Wars are prior examples.\n\nHe explains that meticulous attention to accounting and standardization, and elevation of military leaders to divine status, are spontaneous features of megamachines throughout history. He cites such examples as the repetitive nature of Egyptian paintings which feature enlarged pharaohs and public display of enlarged portraits of Communist leaders such as Mao Zedong and Joseph Stalin. He also cites the overwhelming prevalence of quantitative accounting records among surviving historical fragments, from ancient Egypt to Nazi Germany.\n\nNecessary to the construction of these megamachines is an enormous bureaucracy of humans which act as \"servo-units\", working without ethical involvement. According to Mumford, technological improvements such as the assembly line, or instant, global, wireless, communication and remote control, can easily weaken the perennial psychological barriers to certain types of questionable actions. An example which he uses is that of Adolf Eichmann, the Nazi official who organized logistics in support of the Holocaust. Mumford collectively refers to people willing to carry out placidly the extreme goals of these megamachines as \"Eichmanns\".\n\nOne of the better-known studies of Mumford is of the way the mechanical clock was developed by monks in the Middle Ages and subsequently adopted by the rest of society. He viewed this device as the key invention of the whole Industrial Revolution, contrary to the common view of the steam engine holding the prime position, writing: \"The clock, not the steam-engine, is the key-machine of the modern industrial age. ... The clock ... is a piece of power-machinery whose 'product' is seconds and minutes ...\"\n\n\"The City in History\" won the 1962 U.S. National Book Award for Nonfiction. In this influential book Mumford explored the development of urban civilizations. Harshly critical of urban sprawl, Mumford argues that the structure of modern cities is partially responsible for many social problems seen in western society. While pessimistic in tone, Mumford argues that urban planning should emphasize an organic relationship between people and their living spaces.\n\nMumford uses the example of the medieval city as the basis for the \"ideal city,\" and claims that the modern city is too close to the Roman city (the sprawling megalopolis) which ended in collapse; if the modern city carries on in the same vein, Mumford argues, then it will meet the same fate as the Roman city.\n\nMumford wrote critically of urban culture believing the city is \"a product of earth ... a fact of nature ... man's method of expression.\" Further, Mumford recognized the crises facing urban culture, distrustful of the growing finance industry, political structures, fearful that a local community culture was not being fostered by these institutions. Mumford feared \"metropolitan finance,\" urbanisation, politics, and alienation. Mumford wrote: \"The physical design of cities and their economic functions are secondary to their relationship to the natural environment and to the spiritual values of human community.\"\n\nSuburbia did not escape Mumford's criticism either:\n\nIn the suburb one might live and die without marring the image of an innocent world, except when some shadow of evil fell over a column in the newspaper. Thus the suburb served as an asylum for the preservation of illusion. Here domesticity could prosper, oblivious of the pervasive regimentation beyond. This was not merely a child-centered environment; it was based on a childish view of the world, in which reality was sacrificed to the pleasure principle.\n\nMumford is also among the first urban planning scholars who paid serious attention to religion in the planning field. In one of his least well-known books, \"Faith for Living\" (1940, p. 216), Mumford argues that:\n\nThe segregation of the spiritual life from the practical life is a curse that falls impartially upon both sides of our existence.\n\nMumford's interest in the history of technology and his explanation of \"polytechnics\", along with his general philosophical bent, has been an important influence on a number of more recent thinkers concerned that technology serve human beings as broadly and well as possible. Some of these authors—such as Jacques Ellul, Witold Rybczynski, Richard Gregg, Amory Lovins, J. Baldwin, E. F. Schumacher, Herbert Marcuse, Erich Fromm, Murray Bookchin, Thomas Merton, Marshall McLuhan, and Colin Ward—have been intellectuals and persons directly involved with technological development and decisions about the use of technology.\n\nMumford also had an influence on the American environmental movement, with thinkers like Barry Commoner and Bookchin being influenced by his ideas on cities, ecology and technology. Ramachandra Guha noted his work contains \"some of the earliest and finest thinking on bioregionalism, anti-nuclearism, biodiversity, alternate energy paths, ecological urban planning and appropriate technology.\"\n\nMumford's influence is also evident in the work of some artists including Berenice Abbott's photographs of New York City in the late 1930s.\n\nMumford was an inspiration for Ellsworth Toohey, the antagonist in Ayn Rand's novel \"The Fountainhead\" (1943).\n\nNotes\n\n"}
{"id": "30683625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30683625", "title": "Limit situation", "text": "Limit situation\n\nA limit situation () is any of certain situations in which a human being is said to have differing experiences from those arising from ordinary situations.\n\nThe concept was developed by Karl Jaspers, who considered fright, guilt, finality and suffering as some of the key limit situations arising in everyday life.\n\nEncounters with limit situations unsettle us, break us out of our inauthentic identifications, remove us from the social bond, and force us to come alive and find new ways of communicating. They can be compared to the similarly generative experience of the sense of bewilderment in Zen. Hans-Georg Gadamer considered the limit situation to provide a revelatory encounter with the other; while facing the anxiety arising from the foreknowledge of death can equally prove a growth opportunity arising from a limit situation.\n\nPsychoanalysis can be seen as a structured limit situation, the psychoanalytic framework in particular providing an experience of finality and limits that can empower growth.\n\nPaulo Freire adapted the existential notion of limit situation to the Third World, seeing the constraints of underdevelopment as a limit situation on humanity, but also as a possible frontier point for increasing (in overcoming) one's human stature.\n\n"}
{"id": "18905084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18905084", "title": "Linguistic film theory", "text": "Linguistic film theory\n\nLinguistic film theory is a form of film theory that studies the aesthetics of film by investigating the concepts and practices that comprise the experience and interpretation of movies. \n\nLinguistic film theory was proposed by Stanley Cavell and it is based on the philosophical tradition begun by late Ludwig Wittgenstein. The theory itself is said to mirror aspects of the activity of Wittgenstein's own philosophising (e.g. Wittgenstein's thought experiments) as films are viewed capable of engaging the audience in a therapeutic process of 'dialogue' and even investigate the absurd and the limits of thought. Cavell's framework is seen as a distinctive way of approaching film and philosophy since question of style - the finding of words adequate to our aesthetic experience - is central to the understanding of the meaning of films. One of his ideas involved the position that \"if one thinks of a grammar as a machine for generating sentences, then perhaps one will wish to speak of the camera and its film as a machine for generating idioms.\"\n\nCritics from this tradition often clarify misconceptions used in theoretical film studies and instead produce analysis of a film's vocabulary and its link to a form of life.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4017794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4017794", "title": "Mark Alan Walker", "text": "Mark Alan Walker\n\nMark Alan Walker, Ph.D. is a full Professor of Philosophy at New Mexico State University, where he occupies the Richard L. Hedden Endowed Chair in Advanced Philosophical Studies. Prior to his professorship at NMSU Prof. Walker taught at McMaster University in the department of philosophy and the Arts & Science Programme. He is the author of \"Happy-People Pills for All\" (Oxford: Blackwell Press, 2013). Walker founded and was president of the former nonprofit organization Permanent End International (2003–2007), which had been devoted to ending hunger, illiteracy and environmental degradation through the dissemination of modular aquaponics systems for farming. He serves on the editorial board of the Journal of Evolution and Technology and on the board of directors of the Institute for Ethics and Emerging Technologies. He is a former board member of the non-profit organization Humanity Plus (formerly World Transhumanist Association).\n\nProfessor Walker is a consequentialist who argues that humans have a responsibility to perfect themselves in the realm of morality and virtue. He has written extensively about the ethics of using technology to enhance human capabilities (including advocacy of superlongevity and biohappiness); about the possibility of enhancing virtue genetically, through both genetic modification and the cultivation of humans with larger brains and a better understanding of moral reasoning; and about the moral obligations that humans may have toward artificially intelligent beings in the future. He also co-authored an influential piece about the nexus between transhumanism and religion, with Heidi Campbell.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20901639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20901639", "title": "Martinus Smiglecius", "text": "Martinus Smiglecius\n\nMartinus Smiglecius (another Latin variant: \"Martinus Leopolitanus\", also , ; 11 November 1564 – 26 or 28 July 1618) was a Polish Jesuit philosopher and logician, known for his erudite scholastic \"Logica\".\n\nHe was born on 11 November 1564 in Lwów (Leopolis) in the Kingdom of Poland (now Lviv, Ukraine). He used the surname Lwowczyk, or Leopolitanus, and later adopted the name Smiglecius (after the town of Smigle, from which his family originated). He attended the Jesuit school in Pułtusk and until 1586 studied in Rome, where he joined the Jesuit order in 1581. His education was financed by the prominent Polish statesman Jan Zamojski. He obtained a master's degree in philosophy and a doctor's degree in theology at the Academy of Vilnius, and taught philosophy and theology there. \n\nIn 1599 he took part in a public disputation with the Protestants Marcin Janicki and Daniel Mikołajewski. It was recorded by Martin Gratian Gertich.\n\nHe spent the last 20 years of his life teaching in the colleges of Pułtusk, Poznań, Kraków and Kalisz. He died in Kalisz on 26 or 28 July 1618. \n\nHis major works include:\n\nMarcin Śmiglecki's \"Logica\", first published in 1618 in Ingolstadt, was reprinted several times, in particular at Oxford in 1634, 1638, and 1658, being used there as a textbook. It harked back to Gregory of Rimini, discussing mental propositions. As a textbook author his reputation survived in the satirical poem \"The Logicians Refuted\", attributed to both Jonathan Swift and Oliver Goldsmith. Samuel Johnson, writing in 1751 as a fictitious correspondent in \"The Rambler\", claimed that as a student he \"slept every night with Smiglecius on my pillow.\"\n\nIn a live controversy of the time, Smiglecius sided with Benedictus Pereyra against Giuseppe Biancani. The issue was the status of mathematical proof in physics, where Pereyra denied mathematics an essential status.\n"}
{"id": "48817359", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48817359", "title": "Michael Redhead", "text": "Michael Redhead\n\nMichael Logan Gonne Redhead (born 30 December 1929) is a British academic and philosopher of physics.\n\nRedhead was born on 30 December 1929 in London and educated there at Westminster School.\n\nRedhead is Centennial Professor in CPNSS (Centre for Philosophy of Natural and Social Science) at the London School of Economics and Political Science.\n\nRedhead is an Emeritus Fellow of Wolfson College, Cambridge, and was Vice-President (1992–1996) and Acting President 1992 and 1993, Wolfson College, and Formerly Head, CU Dept of History and Philosophy of Science.\n"}
{"id": "31430040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31430040", "title": "Model-dependent realism", "text": "Model-dependent realism\n\nModel-dependent realism is a view of scientific inquiry that focuses on the role of scientific models of phenomena. It claims reality should be interpreted based upon these models, and where several models overlap in describing a particular subject, multiple, equally valid, realities exist. It claims that it is meaningless to talk about the \"true reality\" of a model as we can never be \"absolutely\" certain of anything. The only meaningful thing is the usefulness of the model. The term \"model-dependent realism\" was coined by Stephen Hawking and Leonard Mlodinow in their 2010 book, \"The Grand Design\".\n\nModel-dependent realism asserts that all we can know about \"reality\" consists of networks of \"world pictures\" that explain \"observations\" by connecting them by \"rules\" to concepts defined in \"models\". Will an ultimate theory of everything be found? Hawking/Mlodinow suggest it is unclear:\nA \"world picture\" consists of the combination of a set of observations accompanied by a conceptual model and by rules connecting the model concepts to the observations. Different world pictures that describe particular data equally well all have equal claims to be valid. There is no requirement that a world picture be unique, or even that the data selected include all available observations. The universe of all observations at present is covered by a \"network\" of overlapping world pictures and, where overlap occurs; multiple, equally valid, world pictures exist. At present, science requires multiple models to encompass existing observations:\n\nWhile not rejecting the idea of \"reality-as-it-is-in-itself\", model-dependent realism suggests that we cannot know \"reality-as-it-is-in-itself\", but only an approximation of it provided by the intermediary of models. The view of models in model-dependent realism also is related to the instrumentalist approach to modern science, that a concept or theory should be evaluated by how effectively it explains and predicts phenomena, as opposed to how accurately it describes objective reality (a matter possibly impossible to establish). A model is a good model if it:\n\"If the modifications needed to accommodate new observations become too baroque, it signals the need for a new model.\" Of course, an assessment like that is subjective, as are the other criteria. According to Hawking and Mlodinow, even very successful models in use today do not satisfy all these criteria, which are aspirational in nature.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6886935", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6886935", "title": "Mohammed Aziz Lahbabi", "text": "Mohammed Aziz Lahbabi\n\nMohammed Aziz Lahbabi (born December 25, 1922, Fes, died on August 23, 1993, Rabat) was a Moroccan philosopher, novelist and poet writing in Arabic and French. Some of his books were translated into more than 30 languages. Lahbabi studied at the Sorbonne in Paris and received a doctorate of philosophy. He was professor of philosophy and dean of the faculty of letters at the Mohammed V University in Rabat. Characteristic of his philosophical writings is the union of Arab-Islamic and Western-humanistic ideas. He also wrote poetry, fiction, and non-fiction books on economics, politics, and literature. Lahbabi was one of the founders of the Union of Arab Writers of the Maghreb and the review Afaq (Horizons). He was nominated for the 1987 Nobel Prize for Literature.\n\n"}
{"id": "21438855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21438855", "title": "Mooning", "text": "Mooning\n\nMooning is the act of displaying one's bare buttocks by removing clothing, e.g., by lowering the backside of one's trousers and underpants, usually bending over, whether also exposing the genitals or not. Mooning is used in the English-speaking world to express protest, scorn, disrespect, or provocation, or can be done for shock value, fun, or as a form of exhibitionism. \n\nSome jurisdictions regard mooning to be indecent exposure, sometimes depending on the context.\n\n\"Moon\" has been a common shape metaphor for the buttocks in English since 1743, and the verb \"to moon\" has meant \"to expose to (moon)light\" since 1601. As documented by McLaren, \"'mooning', or exposing one's butt to shame an enemy ... had a long pedigree in peasant culture\" throughout the Middle Ages, and in many nations.\n\"Mooning\" is also defined as \"wandering idly\" and \"romantically pining\".\n\nAlthough the practice of mooning was widespread by the 19th century, the \"Oxford English Dictionary\" dates the use of \"moon\" and \"mooning\" to describe the act to student slang of the 1960s, when the gesture became increasingly popular among students at universities in the United States.\n\nThe legal position related to mooning varies between jurisdictions; some consider it indecent exposure, while others classify it as legal self expression.\n\nIn 2016, mooning in a public place in Victoria was made a criminal offence/something for which one could be punished.\n\nWhakapohane is the Māori practice of baring one's buttocks with the intent to offend. It symbolises the birthing act and renders the recipient \"noa\" (\"base\"). A modern example was that of Mihi Kotukutuku Stirling. She stood on the marae (sacred area) and the chief of the Te Arawa tribes, Mita Taupopoki, objected telling her that she must get off \"his\" marae as she was a woman. She stood her ground and when he had finished his objections she defended her position. \n\nShe said that she was descended from a prior-born ancestor than the chief. She was not on \"his\" marae; she was on \"her\" marae. She exposed her genitals, telling the chief that that was where he came from. Those assembled were asked to gainsay her speech but no one came forward. The Maori gesture of Whakapohane had countered the argument that was aimed at her.\n\nIn January 2006, a Maryland state circuit court determined that mooning is a form of artistic expression protected by the First Amendment as a form of speech. \n\nThe court ruled that indecent exposure relates only to exposure of the genitals, adding that even though mooning was a \"disgusting\" and \"demeaning\" act to engage in, and had taken place in the presence of a minor, \"If exposure of half of the buttocks constituted indecent exposure, any woman wearing a thong at the beach at Ocean City would be guilty.\"\n\nDefense attorneys had cited a case from 1983 of a woman who was arrested after protesting in front of the U.S. Supreme Court building wearing nothing but a cardboard sign that covered the front of her body. In that case, the District of Columbia Court of Appeals had ruled that indecent exposure is limited to a person's genitalia. No review of the case by a higher court took place since prosecutors dropped the case after the ruling.\n\nIn California, an appellate court found in December 2000 that mooning does not constitute indecent exposure (and, therefore, does not subject the defendant to sex offender registration laws) unless it can be proven beyond reasonable doubt that the conduct was sexually motivated.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "586318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=586318", "title": "Mu'an", "text": "Mu'an\n\nMu'an (; Japanese Mokuan Shōtō) (1611–1684) was a Chinese Chan monk who followed his master Yinyuan Longqi to Japan in 1654.\n\nTogether they founded the Ōbaku Zen school and Mampuku-ji, the school's head temple at Uji in 1661. In 1664, Muyan succeeded his master as chief of the temple and in 1671 established another temple called Zuishō-ji at Shirokane, Edo. He is honored as one of the Ōbaku no Sanpitsu.\n\n"}
{"id": "327672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=327672", "title": "Natural and legal rights", "text": "Natural and legal rights\n\nNatural and legal rights are two types of rights. Natural rights are those that are not dependent on the laws or customs of any particular culture or government, and so are universal and inalienable (they cannot be repealed or restrained by human laws). Legal rights are those bestowed onto a person by a given legal system (they can be modified, repealed, and restrained by human laws).\n\nThe concept of natural law is related to the concept of natural rights. Natural law first appeared in ancient Greek philosophy, and was referred to by Roman philosopher Cicero. It was subsequently alluded to in the Bible, and then developed in the Middle Ages by Catholic philosophers such as Albert the Great and his pupil Thomas Aquinas. During the Age of Enlightenment, the concept of natural laws was used to challenge the divine right of kings, and became an alternative justification for the establishment of a social contract, positive law, and government – and thus legal rights – in the form of classical republicanism. Conversely, the concept of natural rights is used by others to challenge the legitimacy of all such establishments.\n\nThe idea of human rights is also closely related to that of natural rights: some acknowledge no difference between the two, regarding them as synonymous, while others choose to keep the terms separate to eliminate association with some features traditionally associated with natural rights. Natural rights, in particular, are considered beyond the authority of any government or international body to dismiss. The 1948 United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights is an important legal instrument enshrining one conception of natural rights into international soft law. Natural rights were traditionally viewed as exclusively negative rights, whereas human rights also comprise positive rights. Even on a natural rights conception of human rights, the two terms may not be synonymous.\n\nThe proposition that animals have natural rights is one that gained the interest of philosophers and legal scholars in the 20th century and into the 21st.\n\nThe idea that certain rights are natural or inalienable also has a history dating back at least to the Stoics of late Antiquity and Catholic law of the early Middle Ages, and descending through the Protestant Reformation and the Age of Enlightenment to today.\n\nThe existence of natural rights has been asserted by different individuals on different premises, such as \"a priori\" philosophical reasoning or religious principles. For example, Immanuel Kant claimed to derive natural rights through reason alone. The United States Declaration of Independence, meanwhile, is based upon the \"self-evident\" truth that \"all men are … endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights\".\n\nLikewise, different philosophers and statesmen have designed different lists of what they believe to be natural rights; almost all include the right to life and liberty as the two highest priorities. H. L. A. Hart argued that if there are any rights at all, there must be the right to liberty, for all the others would depend upon this. T. H. Green argued that “if there are such things as rights at all, then, there must be a right to life and liberty, or, to put it more properly to free life.” John Locke emphasized \"life, liberty and property\" as primary. However, despite Locke's influential defense of the right of revolution, Thomas Jefferson substituted \"pursuit of happiness\" in place of \"property\" in the United States Declaration of Independence.\n\nStephen Kinzer, a veteran journalist for \"The New York Times\" and the author of the book \"All The Shah's Men\", writes in the latter that:\n\nThe Stoics held that no one was a slave by nature; slavery was an external condition juxtaposed to the internal freedom of the soul (\"sui juris\"). Seneca the Younger wrote:\n\nOf fundamental importance to the development of the idea of natural rights was the emergence of the idea of natural human equality. As the historian A.J. Carlyle notes: \"There is no change in political theory so startling in its completeness as the change from the theory of Aristotle to the later philosophical view represented by Cicero and Seneca... We think that this cannot be better exemplified than with regard to the theory of the equality of human nature.\" Charles H. McIlwain likewise observes that \"the idea of the equality of men is the profoundest contribution of the Stoics to political thought\" and that \"its greatest influence is in the changed conception of law that in part resulted from it.\" Cicero argues in De Legibus that \"we are born for Justice, and that right is based, not upon opinions, but upon Nature.\"\n\nOne of the first Western thinkers to develop the contemporary idea of natural rights was French theologian Jean Gerson, whose 1402 treatise \"De Vita Spirituali Animae\" is considered one of the first attempts to develop what would come to be called modern natural rights theory.\n\nCenturies later, the Stoic doctrine that the \"inner part cannot be delivered into bondage\" re-emerged in the Reformation doctrine of liberty of conscience. Martin Luther wrote:\n\n17th-century English philosopher John Locke discussed natural rights in his work, identifying them as being \"life, liberty, and estate (property)\", and argued that such fundamental rights could not be surrendered in the social contract. Preservation of the natural rights to life, liberty, and property was claimed as justification for the rebellion of the American colonies. As George Mason stated in his draft for the \"Virginia Declaration of Rights\", \"all men are born equally free,\" and hold \"certain inherent natural rights, of which they cannot, by any compact, deprive or divest their posterity.\" Another 17th-century Englishman, John Lilburne (known as \"Freeborn John\"), who came into conflict with both the monarchy of King Charles I and the military dictatorship of Oliver Cromwell governed republic, argued for level human basic rights he called \"freeborn rights\" which he defined as being rights that every human being is born with, as opposed to rights bestowed by government or by human law.\n\nThe distinction between alienable and unalienable rights was introduced by Francis Hutcheson. In his \"Inquiry into the Original of Our Ideas of Beauty and Virtue\" (1725), Hutcheson foreshadowed the Declaration of Independence, stating: “For wherever any Invasion is made upon unalienable Rights, there must arise either a perfect, or external Right to Resistance. . . . Unalienable Rights are essential Limitations in all Governments.” Hutcheson, however, placed clear limits on his notion of unalienable rights, declaring that “there can be no Right, or Limitation of Right, inconsistent with, or opposite to the greatest publick Good.\" Hutcheson elaborated on this idea of unalienable rights in his \"A System of Moral Philosophy\" (1755), based on the Reformation principle of the liberty of conscience. One could not in fact give up the capacity for private judgment (e.g., about religious questions) regardless of any external contracts or oaths to religious or secular authorities so that right is \"unalienable.\" Hutcheson wrote: \"Thus no man can really change his sentiments, judgments, and inward affections, at the pleasure of another; nor can it tend to any good to make him profess what is contrary to his heart. The right of private judgment is therefore unalienable.\"\n\nIn the German Enlightenment, Hegel gave a highly developed treatment of this inalienability argument. Like Hutcheson, Hegel based the theory of inalienable rights on the \"de facto\" inalienability of those aspects of personhood that distinguish persons from things. A thing, like a piece of property, can in fact be transferred from one person to another. According to Hegel, the same would not apply to those aspects that make one a person:\n\nIn discussion of social contract theory, \"inalienable rights\" were said to be those rights that could not be surrendered by citizens to the sovereign. Such rights were thought to be \"natural rights\", independent of positive law. Some social contract theorists reasoned, however, that in the natural state only the strongest could benefit from their rights. Thus, people form an implicit social contract, ceding their natural rights to the authority to protect the people from abuse, and living henceforth under the legal rights of that authority.\n\nMany historical apologies for slavery and illiberal government were based on explicit or implicit voluntary contracts to alienate any \"natural rights\" to freedom and self-determination. The \"de facto\" inalienability arguments of Hutcheson and his predecessors provided the basis for the anti-slavery movement to argue not simply against involuntary slavery but against any explicit or implied contractual forms of slavery. Any contract that tried to legally alienate such a right would be inherently invalid. Similarly, the argument was used by the democratic movement to argue against any explicit or implied social contracts of subjection (\"pactum subjectionis\") by which a people would supposedly alienate their right of self-government to a sovereign as, for example, in \"Leviathan\" by Thomas Hobbes. According to Ernst Cassirer,\n\nThese themes converged in the debate about American Independence. While Jefferson was writing the Declaration of Independence, Richard Price in England sided with the Americans' claim \"that Great Britain is attempting to rob them of that liberty to which every member of society and all civil communities have a natural and unalienable title.\" Price again based the argument on the \"de facto\" inalienability of \"that principle of spontaneity or self-determination which constitutes us agents or which gives us a command over our actions, rendering them properly ours, and not effects of the operation of any foreign cause.\" Any social contract or compact allegedly alienating these rights would be non-binding and void, wrote Price:\n\nPrice raised a furor of opposition so in 1777 he wrote another tract that clarified his position and again restated the \"de facto\" basis for the argument that the \"liberty of men as agents is that power of self-determination which all agents, as such, possess.\"\nIn \"Intellectual Origins of American Radicalism\", Staughton Lynd pulled together these themes and related them to the slavery debate:\n\nMeanwhile, in America, Thomas Jefferson \"took his division of rights into alienable and unalienable from Hutcheson, who made the distinction popular and important\", and in the 1776 United States Declaration of Independence, famously condensed this to:\n\nIn the 19th century, the movement to abolish slavery seized this passage as a statement of constitutional principle, although the U.S. constitution recognized and protected slavery. As a lawyer, future Chief Justice Salmon P. Chase argued before the Supreme Court in the case of John Van Zandt, who had been charged with violating the Fugitive Slave Act, that:\n\nThe concept of inalienable rights was criticized by Jeremy Bentham and Edmund Burke as groundless. Bentham and Burke, writing in 18th century Britain, claimed that rights arise from the actions of government, or evolve from tradition, and that neither of these can provide anything \"inalienable\". (See Bentham's \"Critique of the Doctrine of Inalienable, Natural Rights\", and Burke's \"Reflections on the Revolution in France\"). Presaging the shift in thinking in the 19th century, Bentham famously dismissed the idea of natural rights as \"nonsense on stilts\". By way of contrast to the views of British nationals Burke and Bentham, the leading American revolutionary scholar James Wilson condemned Burke's view as \"tyranny.\"\n\nThe signers of the Declaration of Independence deemed it a \"self-evident truth\" that all men \"are endowed by their Creator with certain unalienable Rights\".\nIn \"The Social Contract\", Jean-Jacques Rousseau claims that the existence of inalienable rights is unnecessary for the existence of a constitution or a set of laws and rights. This idea of a social contractthat rights and responsibilities are derived from a consensual contract between the government and the peopleis the most widely recognized alternative.\n\nOne criticism of natural rights theory is that one cannot draw norms from facts. This objection is variously expressed as the is-ought problem, the naturalistic fallacy, or the appeal to nature. G.E. Moore, for example, said that ethical naturalism falls prey to the naturalistic fallacy. Some defenders of natural rights theory, however, counter that the term \"natural\" in \"natural rights\" is contrasted with \"artificial\" rather than referring to nature. John Finnis, for example, contends that natural law and natural rights are derived from self-evident principles, not from speculative principles or from facts.\n\nThere is also debate as to whether all rights are either natural or legal. Fourth president of the United States James Madison, while representing Virginia in the House of Representatives, believed that there are rights, such as trial by jury, that are social rights, arising neither from natural law nor from positive law (which are the basis of natural and legal rights respectively) but from the social contract from which a government derives its authority.\n\nThomas Hobbes (1588–1679) included a discussion of natural rights in his moral and political philosophy. Hobbes' conception of natural rights extended from his conception of man in a \"state of nature\". Thus he argued that the essential natural (human) right was \"to use his own power, as he will himself, for the preservation of his own Nature; that is to say, of his own Life; and consequently, of doing any thing, which in his own judgement, and Reason, he shall conceive to be the aptest means thereunto.\" (\"Leviathan\". 1, XIV)\n\nHobbes sharply distinguished this natural \"liberty\", from natural \"laws\", described generally as \"a precept, or general rule, found out by reason, by which a man is forbidden to do, that, which is destructive of his life, or taketh away the means of preserving his life; and to omit, that, by which he thinketh it may best be preserved.\" (\"Leviathan\". 1, XIV)\n\nIn his natural state, according to Hobbes, man's life consisted entirely of liberties and not at all of laws – \"It followeth, that in such a condition, every man has the right to every thing; even to one another's body. And therefore, as long as this natural Right of every man to every thing endureth, there can be no security to any man... of living out the time, which Nature ordinarily allow men to live.\" (\"Leviathan\". 1, XIV)\n\nThis would lead inevitably to a situation known as the \"war of all against all\", in which human beings kill, steal and enslave others in order to stay alive, and due to their natural lust for \"Gain\", \"Safety\" and \"Reputation\". Hobbes reasoned that this world of chaos created by unlimited rights was highly undesirable, since it would cause human life to be \"solitary, poor, nasty, brutish, and short\". As such, if humans wish to live peacefully they must give up most of their natural rights and create moral obligations in order to establish political and civil society. This is one of the earliest formulations of the theory of government known as the social contract.\n\nHobbes objected to the attempt to derive rights from \"natural law,\" arguing that law (\"lex\") and right (\"jus\") though often confused, signify opposites, with law referring to obligations, while rights refer to the absence of obligations. Since by our (human) nature, we seek to maximize our well being, rights are prior to law, natural or institutional, and people will not follow the laws of nature without first being subjected to a sovereign power, without which all ideas of right and wrong are meaningless – \"Therefore before the names of Just and Unjust can have place, there must be some coercive Power, to compel men equally to the performance of their Covenants..., to make good that Propriety, which by mutual contract men acquire, in recompense of the universal Right they abandon: and such power there is none before the erection of the Commonwealth.\" (\"Leviathan\". 1, XV)\n\nThis marked an important departure from medieval natural law theories which gave precedence to obligations over rights.\nJohn Locke (1632 – 1704) was another prominent Western philosopher who conceptualized rights as natural and inalienable. Like Hobbes, Locke believed in a natural right to life, liberty, and property. It was once conventional wisdom that Locke greatly influenced the American Revolutionary War with his writings of natural rights, but this claim has been the subject of protracted dispute in recent decades. For example, the historian Ray Forrest Harvey declared that Jefferson and Locke were at \"two opposite poles\" in their political philosophy, as evidenced by Jefferson’s use in the Declaration of Independence of the phrase \"pursuit of happiness\" instead of \"property.\" More recently, the eminent legal historian John Phillip Reid has deplored contemporary scholars’ \"misplaced emphasis on John Locke,\" arguing that American revolutionary leaders saw Locke as a \"commentator\" on established constitutional principles. Thomas Pangle has defended Locke's influence on the Founding, claiming that historians who argue to the contrary either misrepresent the classical republican alternative to which they say the revolutionary leaders adhered, do not understand Locke, or point to someone else who was decisively influenced by Locke. This position has also been sustained by Michael Zuckert.\n\nAccording to Locke there are three natural rights:\n\nIn developing his concept of natural rights, Locke was influenced by reports of society among Native Americans, whom he regarded as \"natural peoples\" who lived in a state of liberty and \"near perfect freedom\", but not license. It also informed his conception of social contract.\n\nThe social contract is an agreement between members of a country to live within a shared system of laws. Specific forms of government are the result of the decisions made by these persons acting in their collective capacity. Government is instituted to make laws that protect these three natural rights. If a government does not properly protect these rights, it can be overthrown.\n\nThomas Paine (1731–1809) further elaborated on natural rights in his influential work \"Rights of Man\" (1791), emphasizing that rights cannot be granted by any charter because this would legally imply they can also be revoked and under such circumstances they would be reduced to privileges:\n\nWhile at first American individualist anarchists adhered to natural rights positions, later in this era led by Benjamin Tucker, some abandoned natural rights positions and converted to Max Stirner's Egoist anarchism. Rejecting the idea of moral rights, Tucker said there were only two rights: \"the right of might\" and \"the right of contract\". He also said, after converting to Egoist individualism, \"In times past... it was my habit to talk glibly of the right of man to land. It was a bad habit, and I long ago sloughed it off... Man's only right to land is his might over it.\"\n\nAccording to Wendy McElroy:\nSeveral periodicals were \"undoubtedly influenced by \"Liberty\"'s presentation of egoism, including \"I\" published by C.L. Swartz, edited by W.E. Gordak and J.W. Lloyd (all associates of \"Liberty\"); \"The Ego\" and \"The Egoist\", both of which were edited by Edward H. Fulton. Among the egoist papers that Tucker followed were the German \"Der Eigene\", edited by Adolf Brand, and \"The Eagle\" and \"The Serpent\", issued from London. The latter, the most prominent English-language egoist journal, was published from 1898 to 1900 with the subtitle 'A Journal of Egoistic Philosophy and Sociology. Among those American anarchists who adhered to egoism include Benjamin Tucker, John Beverley Robinson, Steven T. Byington, Hutchins Hapgood, James L. Walker, Victor Yarros and E.H. Fulton.\n\nMany documents now echo the phrase used in the United States Declaration of Independence. The preamble to the 1948 United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights asserts that rights are inalienable: \"recognition of the inherent dignity and of the equal and inalienable rights of all members of the human family is the foundation of freedom, justice and peace in the world.\" Article 1, § 1 of the California Constitution recognizes inalienable rights, and articulated \"some\" (not all) of those rights as \"defending life and liberty, acquiring, possessing, and protecting property, and pursuing and obtaining safety, happiness, and privacy.\" However, there is still much dispute over which \"rights\" are truly natural rights and which are not, and the concept of natural or inalienable rights is still controversial to some.\n\nErich Fromm argued that some powers over human beings could be wielded only by God, and that if there were no God, no human beings could wield these powers.\n\nContemporary political philosophies continuing the classical liberal tradition of natural rights include libertarianism, anarcho-capitalism and Objectivism, and include amongst their canon the works of authors such as Robert Nozick, Ludwig von Mises, Ayn Rand, and Murray Rothbard. A libertarian view of inalienable rights is laid out in Morris and Linda Tannehill's \"The Market for Liberty\", which claims that a man has a right to ownership over his life and therefore also his property, because he has invested time (i.e. part of his life) in it and thereby made it an extension of his life. However, if he initiates force against and to the detriment of another man, he alienates himself from the right to that part of his life which is required to pay his debt: \"Rights are \"not\" inalienable, but only the possessor of a right can alienate himself from that right – no one else can take a man's rights from him.\"\n\nVarious definitions of inalienability include non-relinquishability, non-salability, and non-transferability. This concept has been recognized by libertarians as being central to the question of voluntary slavery, which Murray Rothbard dismissed as illegitimate and even self-contradictory. Stephan Kinsella argues that \"viewing rights as alienable is perfectly consistent with – indeed, implied by – the libertarian non-aggression principle. Under this principle, only the initiation of force is prohibited; defensive, restitutive, or retaliatory force is not.\"\n\nVarious philosophers have created different lists of rights they consider to be natural. Proponents of natural rights, in particular Hesselberg and Rothbard, have responded that reason can be applied to separate truly axiomatic rights from supposed rights, stating that any principle that requires itself to be disproved is an axiom. Critics have pointed to the lack of agreement between the proponents as evidence for the claim that the idea of natural rights is merely a political tool.\n\nHugh Gibbons has proposed a descriptive argument based on human biology. His contention is that Human Beings were other-regarding as a matter of necessity, in order to avoid the costs of conflict. Over time they developed expectations that individuals would act in certain ways which were then prescribed by society (duties of care etc.) and that eventually crystallized into actionable rights.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1105069", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1105069", "title": "Normal form (natural deduction)", "text": "Normal form (natural deduction)\n\nAn inference of natural deduction is a normal form, according to Dag Prawitz, if no formula occurrence is both the principal premise of an elimination rule and the conclusion of an introduction rule.\n"}
{"id": "34413958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34413958", "title": "Oppenheimer v Cattermole", "text": "Oppenheimer v Cattermole\n\nOppenheimer v Cattermole [1976] AC 249 is a judicial decision of the English courts relating to whether English law should refuse to recognise Nazi era laws relating to the appropriation of Jewish property. The courts considered the question whether the Nazi law was so iniquitous that it should refuse to recognise it as law, thus raising the \"connection between the concepts of law and morality\"\".\n\nThe respondent, Frederick Cattermole, was HM Inspector of Taxes.\n\nIn the House of Lords, Lord Cross of Chelsea famously held:\n\nMr Meier Oppenheimer \"was born in Germany in 1896. He qualified there as a teacher and for some 20 years from 1919 to 1939 he taught at a Jewish orphanage in Bavaria. He was detained for a short time at the concentration camp at Dachau, but soon after his release he left Germany in 1939 for England and has resided here ever since. In 1948 he applied for naturalisation and became a naturalised British subject. In 1953 the German authorities determined to make compensation to the employees of Jewish religious communities. They awarded the taxpayer a pension from 1 October 1952. In 1961 he became 65 and they awarded him a second pension. Both pensions were payable out of the public funds of Germany.\" The pensions were as compensation for the injustice which had been done to him.\n\nThe question for the courts was whether Oppenheimer was liable to pay English income tax on his two pensions. This depended on his nationality. If he was a national of the United Kingdom only, the tax was payable. If, on the other hand he had dual nationality of both the UK and Germany, then he was exempt of English income tax. This stemmed from the double taxation conventions concluded between the UK and Germany, later incorporated into English law. \n\nIn 1968, the German Federal Constitutional Court decided that the 1941 decree was void \"ab initio\", but that decision had no retrospective effect. Mr Oppenheimer became entitled to apply for reinstatement as a German national and did so, with the status being granted automatically. He subsequently benefited from the dual nationality provision in the double taxation agreement, so the case only covered his status and pension from 1953-54 to 1967-68.\n\nThe case was first determined by the UK Special Commissioners for income tax, who decided that Oppenheimer was only British, and not also German, and therefore had to pay tax on his pensions. Their decision was based on a 1913 German law, when there were no complications of the countries being at war, which stated that a German lost their German nationality if they acquired a foreign nationality without permission.\n\nThe commissioners found it unnecessary to decide the case on another German law of 1941, which decreed that a Jew in Germany lost his German nationality as soon as he left Germany. It is important to note that under Art. 116 (2) of the post-war German Constitution, any victim of the 1941 decree was entitled to resume his German citizenship by applying to the German authorities. This he had not done.\n\nOppenehimer submitted on his UK nationality form that he was German at the time of being nationalised in 1948.\n\nThe administrative decision by the Special Commissioners for income tax was then decided by Goulding J, who determined in Oppenheimer’s favour; he was declared to have both nationalities, and did not need to pay tax on his pensions.\n\nGoulding agreed with the argument of counsel for Oppenheimer that the 1913 German Act had no effect as he had already lost his nationality with the 1941 Act which was effective only on Jews. This then created the option by English law that he was also German, a legal fiction. The logic behind this is the subject of an article written by the legal commentator J. G. Merrills, the Edward Bramley Professor of Law at Sheffield University.\n\nThe decision by Goulding J was appealed by the Special Commissioners for income tax, and was heard in the Court of Appeal, by Lord Denning M.R (Master of the Rolls)., Buckley and Orr L.JJ. They decided in favour of the Special Commissioners, and so Oppenheimer now had orders to pay tax on his pensions.\n\nIn Lord Denning's view when Oppenheimer assumed his United Kingdom nationality in 1948 it was impossible for him to retain his German nationality because nationality and allegiance go hand in hand and a person cannot owe allegiance to two countries which are at war with each other.\n\nLord Denning stated that it was for English law to determine the nationality in this case. He also made reference to Russell J. in \"Stoeck v. Public Trustee\" [1921] 2 Ch. 67, 82:\"Whether a person is a national of a country must be determined by the municipal law of that country. Upon this I think all text writers are agreed.\" Lord Cross of Chelsea, see below, did not agree with this assessment.\n\nThe court of final appeal in 1976 was the House of Lords, and the case was heard by Lord Hailsham of St. Marylebone, Lord Hodson, Lord Pearson, Lord Cross of Chelsea and Lord Salmon. The appeal to the House of Lords was dismissed.\n\nAll Lords agreed with Lord Cross of Chelsea who ordered in the following terms:\n\nIn all hearings it was contended on behalf of Oppenheimer that on the authority of \"Rex v Home Secretary, ex parte L.\" [1945] 1 K.B. 7, and \"Lowenthal v Attorney General\" [1948] 1 All E.R. 295, Oppenheimer's purported loss of German citizenship under the decree of 1941 could not be recognised by English courts and that irrespective of German law, under English law he remained a German national after 25 November 1941 on the grounds that English law did not recognise a change of nationality by a decree of a foreign enemy state in wartime, and English law would not give effect, as far as it related to matters in England, to a penal and confiscatory decree of a foreign country. It was thus a decision based on a mixture of public policy and morality.\n\n\"... the decision turned ultimately upon an issue which the English courts treat as a question of fact, namely the appellant's nationality in German law.\"\n\n\"... the House (of Lords) took the unusual step of remitting the case to the special commissioners for further consideration\".\n\nAfter the special commissioners heard evidence from Dr Cohn and Dr Jacques (with special experience in German law), \"The House of Lords final decision was that on the new evidence in relation to German law, and in particular the provisions of Article 116 (2) of the Basic German Law of 1949, as subsequently interpreted by the German courts, Mr. Oppenheimer must be taken to have lost his German nationality in 1949, and since he had not taken the steps open to him under that article to resume his German nationality, he was a British but not a German national during the relevant period, and as such was subject to United Kingdom tax.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "243451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=243451", "title": "P. F. Strawson", "text": "P. F. Strawson\n\nSir Peter Frederick Strawson FBA (; 23 November 1919 – 13 February 2006), usually cited as P. F. Strawson, was an English philosopher. He was the Waynflete Professor of Metaphysical Philosophy at the University of Oxford (Magdalen College) from 1968 to 1987. Before that, he was appointed as a college lecturer at University College, Oxford, in 1947, and became a tutorial fellow the following year, until 1968. On his retirement in 1987, he returned to the college and continued working there until shortly before his death. His portrait was painted by the artists Muli Tang and Daphne Todd.\n\nWhen he died, the obituary in \"The Guardian\" noted that, \"Oxford was the world capital of philosophy between 1950 and 1970, and American academics flocked there, rather than the traffic going the other way. That golden age had no greater philosopher than Sir Peter Strawson.\"\n\nStrawson was born in Ealing, west London, and brought up in Finchley, north London, by his parents, both of whom were teachers. He was educated at Christ's College, Finchley, followed by St John's College, Oxford, where he read Philosophy, Politics and Economics.\n\nStrawson first became well known with his article \"On Referring\" (1950), a criticism of Bertrand Russell's theory of descriptions (see also Definite descriptions) that Russell explained in the famous \"On Denoting\" article (1905).\n\nIn philosophical methodology, there are (at least) two important and interrelated features of Strawson's work that are worthy of note. The first is the project of a 'descriptive' metaphysics, and the second is his notion of a shared conceptual scheme, composed of concepts operated in everyday life. In his book \"Individuals\" (1959), Strawson attempts to give a description of various concepts that form an interconnected web, representing (part of) our common, shared, human conceptual scheme. In particular, he examines our conceptions of basic particulars, and how they are variously brought under general spatio-temporal concepts. What makes this a metaphysical project is that it exhibits, in fine detail, the structural features of our thought about the world, and thus precisely delimits how we, humans, think about reality.\n\nStrawson was made a Fellow of the British Academy in 1960 and Foreign Honorary Member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1971. He was president of the Aristotelian Society from 1969 to 1970. He was knighted, in 1977, for services to philosophy.\n\nAfter serving as a captain in the Royal Electrical and Mechanical Engineers during World War II, Strawson married Ann Martin in 1945. They had four children, including the philosopher Galen Strawson. He lived in Oxford all his adult life and died in hospital on 13 February 2006 after a short illness. P. F. Strawson was elder brother to Major General John Strawson.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47867433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47867433", "title": "Peter Forrest (philosopher)", "text": "Peter Forrest (philosopher)\n\nPeter Richard Haddow Forrest (born 1948) is an Australian philosopher.\n\nForrest was born in 1948 in Liverpool, England, and was educated at Ampleforth College. His undergraduate work was at Balliol College, Oxford, in mathematics, and he gained a Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) degree in mathematics from Harvard University. After moving to Australia he gained a Master of Arts degree in philosophy at the University of Tasmania, then in 1984 a PhD degree at the University of Sydney, where he was influenced by philosophers David Stove and David Armstrong. He was Professor of Philosophy at the University of New England from 1987 to 2010.\n\nIn the philosophy of religion, Forrest's books \"God Without the Supernatural\" and \"Developmental Theism\" defend a speculative view of God which resembles traditional theism in regarding God as an entity beyond the world, having creative powers, but also takes God not to violate natural laws and to develop from a state of pure power to a state of pure love.\n\nIn the philosophy of time, Forrest defends the growing block theory, according to which the present and the past are real, but not the future.\n\nHe is a Fellow of the Australian Academy of the Humanities.\n\nHe is married, with four children.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25810521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25810521", "title": "Pál Szende", "text": "Pál Szende\n\nPál Szende (born as Pál Schwarz, 7 February 1879 – 15 July 1934) was a Hungarian politician, who served as Minister of Finance between 1918 and 1919. From 1904 he worked as a lawyer. He participated in the radical political movement along with Oszkár Jászi. After the establishment of the Hungarian Soviet Republic he lived in Vienna. Szende took part in the Austrian Civil War after that he escaped to Czechoslovakia then Romania, where he died.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28058108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28058108", "title": "Qaida (book)", "text": "Qaida (book)\n\nQaida (also spelt Qaeda; ), in Islam in South Asia, are a series of books for beginners to learn Quranic Arabic. It is used to teach children how to read the Quran. The series of books was compiled by Moolvi Noor Muhammad Ludhyanvi. The Qaida has further more categories including Noorani Qaida, Madani Qaida, etc. These are to understand how to Quran Works. The Noorani Qaida teaches students via passages of the Quran. It begins with the Arabic alphabet. It then shows how the alphabets are connected, the accents of \"Zabr\", \"Zair\", and \"Paysh\", etc. before moving onto other Qaidas.\n\n"}
{"id": "826669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=826669", "title": "Quantitative structure–activity relationship", "text": "Quantitative structure–activity relationship\n\nQuantitative structure–activity relationship models (QSAR models) are regression or classification models used in the chemical and biological sciences and engineering. Like other regression models, QSAR regression models relate a set of \"predictor\" variables (X) to the potency of the response variable (Y), while classification QSAR models relate the predictor variables to a categorical value of the response variable.\n\nIn QSAR modeling, the predictors consist of physico-chemical properties or theoretical molecular descriptors of chemicals; the QSAR response-variable could be a biological activity of the chemicals. QSAR models first summarize a supposed relationship between chemical structures and biological activity in a data-set of chemicals. Second, QSAR models predict the activities of new chemicals.\n\nRelated terms include \"quantitative structure–property relationships\" (\"QSPR\") when a chemical property is modeled as the response variable.\n\"Different properties or behaviors of chemical molecules have been investigated in the field of QSPR. Some examples are quantitative structure–reactivity relationships (QSRRs), quantitative structure–chromatography relationships (QSCRs) and, quantitative structure–toxicity relationships (QSTRs), quantitative structure–electrochemistry relationships (QSERs), and quantitative structure–biodegradability relationships (QSBRs).\"\n\nAs an example, biological activity can be expressed quantitatively as the concentration of a substance required to give a certain biological response. Additionally, when physicochemical properties or structures are expressed by numbers, one can find a mathematical relationship, or quantitative structure-activity relationship, between the two. The mathematical expression, if carefully validated can then be used to predict the modeled response of other chemical structures. \n\nA QSAR has the form of a mathematical model:\n\nThe error includes model error (bias) and observational variability, that is, the variability in observations even on a correct model.\n\nPrincipal steps of QSAR/QSPR including (i) Selection of Data set and extraction of structural/empirical descriptors (ii) variable selection, (iii) model construction and (iv) validation evaluation.\"\n\nThe basic assumption for all molecule based hypotheses is that similar molecules have similar activities. This principle is also called Structure–Activity Relationship (SAR). The underlying problem is therefore how to define a \"small\" difference on a molecular level, since each kind of activity, e.g. reaction ability, biotransformation ability, solubility, target activity, and so on, might depend on another difference. Good examples were given in the bioisosterism reviews by Patanie/LaVoie and Brown.\n\nIn general, one is more interested in finding strong trends. Created hypotheses usually rely on a finite number of chemical data. Thus, the induction principle should be respected to avoid overfitted hypotheses and deriving overfitted and useless interpretations on structural/molecular data.\n\nThe \"SAR paradox\" refers to the fact that it is not the case that all similar molecules have similar activities.\n\nAnalogously, the \"partition coefficient\"—a measurement of differential solubility and itself a component of QSAR predictions—can be predicted either by atomic methods (known as \"XLogP\" or \"ALogP\") or by chemical fragment methods (known as \"CLogP\" and other variations). It has been shown that the logP of compound can be determined by the sum of its fragments; fragment-based methods are generally accepted as better predictors than atomic-based methods. Fragmentary values have been determined statistically, based on empirical data for known logP values. This method gives mixed results and is generally not trusted to have accuracy of more than ±0.1 units.\n\nGroup or Fragment based QSAR is also known as GQSAR. GQSAR allows flexibility to study various molecular fragments of interest in relation to the variation in biological response. The molecular fragments could be substituents at various substitution sites in congeneric set of molecules or could be on the basis of pre-defined chemical rules in case of non-congeneric sets. GQSAR also considers cross-terms fragment descriptors, which could be helpful in identification of key fragment interactions in determining variation of activity.\nLead discovery using Fragnomics is an emerging paradigm. In this context FB-QSAR proves to be a promising strategy for fragment library design and in fragment-to-lead identification endeavours.\n\nAn advanced approach on fragment or group-based QSAR based on the concept of pharmacophore-similarity is developed. This method, pharmacophore-similarity-based QSAR (PS-QSAR) uses topological pharmacophoric descriptors to develop QSAR models. This activity prediction may assist the contribution of certain pharmacophore features encoded by respective fragments toward activity improvement and/or detrimental effects.\n\nThe acronym 3D-QSAR or 3-D QSAR refers to the application of force field calculations requiring three-dimensional structures of a given set of small molecules with known activities (training set). The training set needs to be superimposed (aligned) by either experimental data (e.g. based on ligand-protein crystallography) or molecule superimposition software. It uses computed potentials, e.g. the Lennard-Jones potential, rather than experimental constants and is concerned with the overall molecule rather than a single substituent. The first 3-D QSAR was named Comparative Molecular Field Analysis (CoMFA) by Cramer et al. It examined the steric fields (shape of the molecule) and the electrostatic fields which were correlated by means of partial least squares regression (PLS).\n\nThe created data space is then usually reduced by a following feature extraction (see also dimensionality reduction). The following learning method can be any of the already mentioned machine learning methods, e.g. support vector machines. An alternative approach uses multiple-instance learning by encoding molecules as sets of data instances, each of which represents a possible molecular conformation. A label or response is assigned to each set corresponding to the activity of the molecule, which is assumed to be determined by at least one instance in the set (i.e. some conformation of the molecule).\n\nOn June 18, 2011 the Comparative Molecular Field Analysis (CoMFA) patent has dropped any restriction on the use of GRID and partial least-squares (PLS) technologies.\n\nIn this approach, descriptors quantifying various electronic, geometric, or steric properties of a molecule are computed and used to develop a QSAR. This approach is different from the fragment (or group contribution) approach in that the descriptors are computed for the system as whole rather than from the properties of individual fragments. This approach is different from the 3D-QSAR approach in that the descriptors are computed from scalar quantities (e.g., energies, geometric parameters) rather than from 3D fields.\n\nAn example of this approach is the QSARs developed for olefin polymerization by half sandwich compounds.\n\nIn the literature it can be often found that chemists have a preference for partial least squares (PLS) methods, since it applies the feature extraction and induction in one step.\n\nComputer SAR models typically calculate a relatively large number of features. Because those lack structural interpretation ability, the preprocessing steps face a feature selection problem (i.e., which structural features should be interpreted to determine the structure-activity relationship). Feature selection can be accomplished by visual inspection (qualitative selection by a human); by data mining; or by molecule mining.\n\nA typical data mining based prediction uses e.g. support vector machines, decision trees, artificial neural networks for inducing a predictive learning model.\n\nMolecule mining approaches, a special case of structured data mining approaches, apply a similarity matrix based prediction or an automatic fragmentation scheme into molecular substructures. Furthermore, there exist also approaches using maximum common subgraph searches or graph kernels.\n\nTypically QSAR models derived from non linear machine learning is seen as a \"black box\", which fails to guide medicinal chemists. Recently there is a relatively new concept of matched molecular pair analysis or prediction driven MMPA which is coupled with QSAR model in order to identify activity cliffs.\n\nQSAR modeling produces predictive models derived from application of statistical tools correlating biological activity (including desirable therapeutic effect and undesirable side effects) or physico-chemical properties in QSPR models of chemicals (drugs/toxicants/environmental pollutants) with descriptors representative of molecular structure or properties. QSARs are being applied in many disciplines, for example: risk assessment, toxicity prediction, and regulatory decisions in addition to drug discovery and lead optimization. Obtaining a good quality QSAR model depends on many factors, such as the quality of input data, the choice of descriptors and statistical methods for modeling and for validation. Any QSAR modeling should ultimately lead to statistically robust and predictive models capable of making accurate and reliable predictions of the modeled response of new compounds.\n\nFor validation of QSAR models, usually various strategies are adopted:\n\nThe success of any QSAR model depends on accuracy of the input data, selection of appropriate descriptors and statistical tools, and most importantly validation of the developed model. Validation is the process by which the reliability and relevance of a procedure are established for a specific purpose; for QSAR models validation must be mainly for robustness, prediction performances and applicability domain (AD) of the models.\n\nSome validation methodologies can be problematic. For example, \"leave one-out\" cross-validation generally leads to an overestimation of predictive capacity. Even with external validation, it is difficult to determine whether the selection of training and test sets was manipulated to maximize the predictive capacity of the model being published.\n\nDifferent aspects of validation of QSAR models that need attention include methods of selection of training set compounds, setting training set size and impact of variable selection for training set models for determining the quality of prediction. Development of novel validation parameters for judging quality of QSAR models is also important.\n\nOne of the first historical QSAR applications was to predict boiling points.\n\nIt is well known for instance that within a particular family of chemical compounds, especially of organic chemistry, that there are strong correlations between structure and observed properties. A simple example is the relationship between the number of carbons in alkanes and their boiling points. There is a clear trend in the increase of boiling point with an increase in the number carbons, and this serves as a means for predicting the boiling points of higher alkanes.\n\nA still very interesting application is the Hammett equation, Taft equation and pKa prediction methods.\n\nThe biological activity of molecules is usually measured in assays to establish the level of inhibition of particular signal transduction or metabolic pathways. Drug discovery often involves the use of QSAR to identify chemical structures that could have good inhibitory effects on specific targets and have low toxicity (non-specific activity). Of special interest is the prediction of partition coefficient log \"P\", which is an important measure used in identifying \"druglikeness\" according to Lipinski's Rule of Five.\n\nWhile many quantitative structure activity relationship analyses involve the interactions of a family of molecules with an enzyme or receptor binding site, QSAR can also be used to study the interactions between the structural domains of proteins. Protein-protein interactions can be quantitatively analyzed for structural variations resulted from site-directed mutagenesis.\n\nIt is part of the machine learning method to reduce the risk for a SAR paradox, especially taking into account that only a finite amount of data is available (see also MVUE). In general, all QSAR problems can be divided into coding \nand learning.\n\n(Q)SAR models have been used for risk management. QSARS are suggested by regulatory authorities; in the European Union, QSARs are suggested by the REACH regulation, where \"REACH\" abbreviates \"Registration, Evaluation, Authorisation and Restriction of Chemicals\".\n\nThe chemical descriptor space whose convex hull is generated by a particular training set of chemicals is called the training set's applicability domain. Prediction of properties of novel chemicals that are located outside the applicability domain uses extrapolation, and so is less reliable (on average) than prediction within the applicability domain. The assessment of the reliability of QSAR predictions remains a research topic.\n\nThe QSAR equations can be used to predict biological activities of newer molecules before their synthesis.\n\nExamples of machine learning tools for QSAR modeling include:\n\n"}
{"id": "41845762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41845762", "title": "Radomir Đorđević", "text": "Radomir Đorđević\n\nRadomir Č. Đorđević – Pule (Serbian Cyrillic: Радомир Ч. Ђорђевић – Пуле) (born 17 November 1940 in Brod (Belčine) in Crna Trava) is a retired professor of philosophy at the University of Belgrade.\n\nĐorđević – Pule completed his secondary school in Belgrade, where he also obtained his undergraduate degree in philosophy. After graduation, he was elected assistant at the Institute of Social Sciences before joining academia on 1 October 1965 at the , where he spent his entire working life. Additionally, he taught philosophy at the (1964), the Faculty of Technology and Metallurgy (1971), the Faculty of Philology (1981-1985), the Land Forces Military Academy (1976-1978), the Faculty of Sciences at the University of Kragujevac (first as a teaching assistant for a short period of time and then, in the late eighties and early nineties as a professor). Aside from the modules Introduction to Philosophy and the Philosophy of Science, he held a special course of lectures in Philosophy of the Slavs at the Faculty of Philosophy at the University of Montenegro in Nikšić (2001-2004). He was the head of both the Department of Physics Education Methodology and the Department of History and Philosophy of Physics in the period 1985-2003. During the preparation of his Ph.D. thesis, he went on a study visit to Poland. He completed his Ph.D. at the Faculty of Philosophy in Nis on the topic \"The Role of Hypotheses in Science\" (1980).\nHe participated in numerous national and international philosophical and scientific symposia, conferences and events. He was the founder of Interfaculty Professional Seminars \"Slavica\" (Serbian Cyrillic: Славика), which operated from 1995 to 1999 at the Faculty of Science, and was then the editor of the cycle of events \"Russian Philosophical Thought and the Problems of the Modern World\" (Serbian Cyrillic: \"Руска философска мисао и проблеми савременог света\") organized at the Russian House in Belgrade, held for fifteen years. He was a member of the editorial board of journals such as \"The Dialectics\" (Serbian Cyrillic: \"Дијалектика\"), \"The Literature\" (Serbian Cyrillic: \"Књижевност\"), and \"The Young Physicist\" (Serbian Cyrillic: \"Млади физичар\"). Moreover, he was the Vice President of the Serbian Philosophical Society in several mandates and today he is a member of the Executive Committee of the aforementioned professional association. He was an associate of Radio Belgrade for almost a quarter of a century and long-term associate of other programs of this radio station and certain television stations. He is also a researcher in the field of the history of the Serbian philosophy.\n\nIn recognition of his contributions, he received three plaques from the Russian Cultural Centre in Belgrade, a plaque of appreciation from the Serbian Physical Society for contributions to the work of the journal \"The Young Physicist\" (Serbian Cyrillic: \"Млади физичар\"), and two plaques for the contribution to the \"Vlasina Meetings\" (Serbian Cyrillic: \"Власински сусрети\"). His bibliographical work in the period 2006-2014 will be published in the appendix of his book \"The Philosophical Debate\" With Responses to the Works of the Author (Serbian Cyrillic: Философске расправе, са одзивима на радове аутора), which is in preparation.\n\nAside from several hundred papers of various types in over forty publications in science and philosophy, he is the author of the following books:\nHis Bibliography in the period 1966-2006 was published in the appendix of the book Man, Values and History (pages 351-370).\n\nLetter from prof. dr Radomir Đorđević to prof. dr Mirjana Marković - Document\n\nDobrilo Aranitović - Bio-bibliography of prof. dr Radomir Đorđević\n"}
{"id": "22158790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22158790", "title": "Richard Crakanthorpe", "text": "Richard Crakanthorpe\n\nRichard Crakanthorpe (1567–1624) was an English clergyman, remembered both as a logician and as a religious controversialist.\nHis logical works still had currency in the eighteenth century, and there is an allusion in the novel \"Tristram Shandy\". As a logician he was conservative, staying close to Aristotle and the \"Organon\", and critical of the fashion for Ramism and its innovations. His \"Logicae\" was a substantial work, and was referred to by Samuel Johnson.\n\nCrakanthorpe was, says Anthony à Wood,\n\na great canonist, and so familiar and exact in the fathers, councils, and schoolmen, that none in his time scarce went before him. None have written with greater diligence, I cannot say with a meeker mind, as some have reported that he was as foul-mouthed against the papists, particularly M. Ant. de Dominis, as Prynne was afterwards against them and the prelatists.\n\nHe was born at or near Strickland in Westmorland, and was baptised in 1568 in the nearby village of Morland. At the age of sixteen was admitted as a student at Queen's College, Oxford. According to Anthony à Wood he was first a \"poor serving child\", then a tabardar, and at length in 1598 became a fellow of that college. Crakanthorpe seems to have been much influenced by John Rainolds, and became conspicuous among the Puritan party at Oxford as a disputant and preacher. Wood describes him as a \"zealot among them\", and as having formed a coterie in his college of men of similar opinions, disciples of Rainolds. He was selected to accompany Ralph Eure, 3rd Lord Eure as his chaplain, with Thomas Morton, on a 1602 diplomatic mission to the Emperor Rudolph II and the King of Denmark.\n\nCrakanthorpe preached an \"Inauguration Sermon\" at Paul's Cross on the accession of James I in 1603; and became chaplain to Thomas Ravis, Bishop of London, and chaplain in ordinary to the king. He was also admitted, early in 1605, on the presentation of Sir John Leverson, to the rectory of Black Notley, near Braintree in Essex. Sir John had had three sons at Queen's College, and had become acquainted with Crakanthorpe.\n\nIn 1617, succeeding John Barkham, Crakanthorpe was presented to the rectory of Paglesham by the Bishop of London. He had before this taken his degree of D.D. and been incorporated at Cambridge. He died at Black Notley, and was buried in the chancel of the church there on 25 November 1624. King James, to whom he was well known, said, somewhat unfeelingly, that he died for want of a bishopric.\n\nHis \"Inauguration Sermon\" was published in 1608. In 1616 he published a treatise in defence of the Emperor Justinian the emperor, against Cardinal Baronius. Other works were: \"Introductio in Metaphysicam\", Oxford, 1619; \"Defence of Constantine, with a Treatise of the Pope's Temporal Monarchy\", London 1621; \"Logicae libri quinque de Predicabilibus, Praedicamentis\", London. 1622; \"Tractatus de Providentiâ Dei\", Cambridge, 1622.\n\nThe \"Defensio Ecclesiae Anglicanae\", Crakanthorpe's best-known controversial work, was not published till after his death, when it was given to the world (1625) by his friend John Barkham, who also preached his funeral sermon. Marcantonio de Dominis, the Roman Catholic Archbishop of Spalatro, came to England as a convert to the Church of England, having published his reasons in a book called \"Consilium Profectionis\" (Heidelberg and London 1616). After about six years' residence in England he returned to Rome, and published a retractation (\"Consilium Reditus\"). A perfect storm of vituperation broke out against him. Crakanthorpe answered in his \"Defensio Ecclesiae\", taking the retractation sentence by sentence, and pouring out a stream of invective. The first edition was full of errors; it was edited at Oxford in 1847. Several other works written by him of anti-Catholic controversy were published after his death.\n"}
{"id": "29381027", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29381027", "title": "Social Epistemology (journal)", "text": "Social Epistemology (journal)\n\nSocial Epistemology: A Journal of Knowledge, Culture and Policy is a bimonthly peer-reviewed academic journal. It was established in 1987 and is published by Routledge in collaboration with the Society for Social Studies of Science and the European Association for the Study of Science and Technology. The journal has an online supplement, the \"Social Epistemology Review and Reply Collective\", which publishes critical replies to journal articles, book reviews, and article reviews, and hosts debates on social issues involving the production, organization and reception of knowledge.\n\nThe founding editor-in-chief was Steve Fuller (University of Warwick), who was succeeded in 1997 by Joan Leach (University of Queensland). Since 2009, James H. Collier (Virginia Tech) is the editor.\n\n"}
{"id": "55775678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55775678", "title": "Textual tradition of The Tale of Genji", "text": "Textual tradition of The Tale of Genji\n\n\"The Tale of Genji\" is one of the best-known works of classical Japanese literature, and the number of manuscript copies of it is very large. It was originally written by Murasaki Shikibu, a lady-in-waiting at the Heian court, at the beginning of the eleventh century, but the earliest extant manuscript was copied by Fujiwara no Teika roughly two centuries later.\n\n\"The Tale of Genji\" was copied extensively in the pre-modern era. The scholar once performed an extensive study of 300 manuscript copies of the work, and even counting only manuscripts copied before the end of the Muromachi period in the mid-16th century the number comes to roughly 100.\n\nThe earliest of these surviving copies, dating from the early Kamakura period, are the ' produced by Fujiwara no Teika and the ' produced by Minamoto no Mitsuyuki and his son Chikayuki .\n\nMurasaki's diary records that by the winter of 1008 \"Genji\" was already in circulation, and so must have already begun to be copied and distributed at this time. Because of the circumstances of copying of \"monogatari\" literature, which were treated as light entertainments for court ladies, numerous errors crept into these early copies, and as those copies were copied the errors multiplied exponentially. Entire chapters began to be added to the work, coming to around 60 chapters rather than the 54 that became the standard.\n\nFujiwara no Teika, according to his diary the \"Meigetsuki\", was robbed on the 16th day of the second month of 1225, and his copy of \"Genji\" was one of the items that were stolen. Teika had apparently been working on editing a \"true version\" of \"Genji\" (possibly the surviving \"Aobyōshi-bon\") since the eleventh month of the previous year, but in his diary he bemoaned the many variations between the various manuscripts in circulation.\n\nChikayuki, who began his editing of the \"Kawachi-bon\" in 1236, similarly wrote of the variations between the manuscripts he had available to him.\n\nThe texts that were available to the early Kamakura editors may have included:\nand at least thirteen other manuscripts whose names are known, as well one copy that was supposedly produced by Fujiwara no Yukinari.\n"}
{"id": "47555513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47555513", "title": "The Audience Engine", "text": "The Audience Engine\n\nThe Audience Engine is an open-source, customizable suite of fundraising tools for public radio being developed by the Congera Corporation, a subsidiary of WFMU Radio. It was conceived by and is being developed under the supervision of Ken Freedman, WFMU general manager, and Liz Berg, the station's assistant general manager.\n\nThe platform is based on WFMU's own successful model of fundraising and listener-community relations, a project that began development in 1998 and now helps WFMU raise 70% of its annual $2.5 million operating budget via its website using crowdfunding technology. The developers explain that \"by pairing online content, real-time playlist information, social media, and community interaction tools directly with crowdfunding campaigns, WFMU has not only built a positive and intelligent online community, but also a sustainable model that can be adopted by other organizations.\" Besides radio, Audience Engine has potential usage for online television and journalism. The goal is to \"enable organizations ... to build audiences and become self sufficient.\"\n\nAndrew Flanagan, of \"Billboard\", wrote, \"The philosophy underlying Audience Engine's development is the same that's kept WFMU going: experimentation and independence. The tech tumult of the past two decades has resulted in long-established business models, whether classified ads or subscriptions, being destroyed without any replacements for those models waiting in the wings.\" Freedman says that Audience Engine can \"address the problems of legacy media dealing with new media platforms. It's much more difficult for legacy institutions to make that transition.\"\n\nA large part of Audience Engine's appeal is its fundraising capabilities. \"Audience Engine comes with a set of tools that integrates crowdfunding-inspired donation tools throughout a publisher's site, with on and off-site widgets for donations as well as gift reward management, and a full suite of analytics underlying it all for that publisher to gain insight on what is and isn't raising money,\" noted Flanagan. Freedman observed that \"Kickstarter did a great job of borrowing or stealing the concept of the pledge drive, and vastly improved it as well. Public media hasn't borrowed it back yet! That's what we're trying to do.\"\n\nAlthough aimed primarily towards small and mid-sized stations, larger public radio stations such as WBUR and WNYC are exploring the platform's possibilities.\n\nThe platform was publicly debuted at a launch event held at New York's Civic Hall, on November 5, 2015.\n\nThe platform is being built in modular APIs that utilize JavaScript and XML feeds, but will include modules that integrate into Drupal, which is used by many small news organizations. Users could adapt aspects of the system to their own needs and use as many or as few modules as they deem necessary. “We’re trying to make it modular,\" said Freedman, \"so people can just pick and choose and use pieces of it until hopefully they’re comfortable with using the entire thing.\"\n\nPart of the Audience Engine's philosophy is to retain the listener's or reader's attention on the station website, rather than redirect them to external social media. \"Community based radio stations have to start thinking about online platforms that don’t effectively abandon discussion and networking to Twitter, Facebook, Reddit, or LinkedIn, and the rest of the usual suspects,\" said Matthew Lasar at \"Radio Survivor\". \"[O]nce your listeners and/or website readers are off to Twitter/Facebook-land, they’re all but gone. They’re not commenting on your podcast or stream or blog post in your house. They’re far far away, helping Mark Zuckerberg bring in that advertisement and audience data cash.\" \n\n“The problem for the content producer,” said Freedman, “is that when they send their audiences to off-site destinations, these giant data mining operations skim off critical information that should be the lifeblood of the digital producer – information that should be sustaining the artist or producer, not the big data enterprises.” Freedman amplified this in a 2018 interview for \"Radio World\", in which he said, \"Digital technology is much more difficult and expensive than traditional broadcasting, with constantly changing platforms, operating systems, and security and privacy considerations. Many legacy media organizations have opted to utilize large advertising platforms such as Facebook to address this problem, but this is a short-sighted strategy. Radio broadcasters should not send their audiences to third-party platforms, who will mine metrics from those audiences for their own benefit, leaving broadcasters bereft of the metrics that would benefit them.\"\n\n\"Radio World\" described the Audience Engine dashboard as featuring \"a responsively designed social content page for radio and news sites, engineered for live, positive audience feedback and created with self-sustaining crowdfunding in mind. Both Web and mobile pages have a built-in, interactive second screen, with incentives for positive contributions, and tools for stopping disruptive behavior.\"\n\nThe project’s first module, a crowdfunding app called Mynte, is scheduled to launch in 2018.\n\nBesides WFMU, early adopters of Audience Engine include WWOZ-FM, a New Orleans-based jazz and blues station; WSOU-FM (Seton Hall University), and WPRB-FM (Princeton University).\n\nEarly development of Audience Engine was undertaken by Bocoup, a developer of open-source web technologies which has collaborated with Google, Microsoft, Walmart, eBay, and Apple. Bocoup's involvement ended in January 2016, and the project was turned over to a team of independent developers under the supervision of WFMU.\n\nWordPress developers Joey Dehnert and Andrew Nealon at InsertCulture helped develop the foundation of Audience Engine’s web platform.\n\nThe Audience Engine has received $500,000 in grant money over several years from the Geraldine R. Dodge Foundation to undertake development of the software.\n\nIn 2016, Congera merged with Boston-based \"Spinitron LLC\", a music tracking software, for SoundExchange, airplay playlist, and other copyright-compliance reporting, company.\n\n"}
{"id": "5485249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5485249", "title": "Torat Eretz Yisrael", "text": "Torat Eretz Yisrael\n\nThe Hebrew expression Torat Eretz Yisrael (literally \"Law of the Land of Israel\") refers to all Jewish teachings regarding the \"Land of Israel\" (\"Eretz Yisrael\"), in particular those written from or conforming to a religious-Zionist point of view.\n\nSuch teachings are for example the works of Rabbi Avraham Yitzchak Kook, the first religious-Zionist Chief Rabbi of the modern-day State of Israel. Today, it lives on in the works and teachings of rabbis like David Bar-Hayim, amongst others.\n"}
{"id": "34463920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34463920", "title": "Vincenzo Botta", "text": "Vincenzo Botta\n\nVincenzo Botta (November 11, 1818 Cavallermaggiore - October 5, 1894 New York City) was an Italian-born politician and professor of philosophy, and later, in the United States, of Italian language and literature.\n\nBotta was educated at the University of Turin, and became professor of philosophy there. In 1849 he was elected to the Sardinian parliament, and in 1850 commissioned, in association with Dr. Parola, another deputy, to examine the educational system of Germany. Their report on the German universities and schools was published at the expense of the government. In 1853, he met Anne Lynch, a writer from the United States then traveling in Europe.\n\nAlso in 1853, Botta was sent to the United States for the purpose of investigating the public school system. He found New York City to his liking, settled there, and became naturalized. He taught philosophy and Italian at the University of the City of New York where for many years he was chair of the department of Italian language and literature.\n\nBotta and Anne Lynch were married in 1855. Their brownstone home at 25 West 37th Street became a meeting place for literary people and artists.\n\n\n"}
