{"id": "42638870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42638870", "title": "Abdallah ibn Khordadbeh", "text": "Abdallah ibn Khordadbeh\n\nAbdallah ibn Khordadbeh was a Persian general and governor for the Abbasid Caliphate.\n\nHe was the son of Khordadbeh, a Zoroastrian from Khurasan who converted to Islam. By ca. 815, Abdallah served as the governor of Tabaristan, and conquered the mountainous regions of Tabaristan from the local Bavandid ruler Sharwin I. During the same year, he campaigned in Daylam, where he conquered two cities and captured its ruler Abu Layla. In 817, he aided Mazyar, an Iranian prince, to escape from Tabaristan and reach the court of the Abbasid caliph al-Ma'mun. Abdallah was also a friend of the Persian musician Ishaq al-Mawsili.\n\nNot much more is known about Abdallah; he had a son named Abu'l-Qasim Ubaydallah, better known as Ibn Khordadbeh, who was born in 820 in Khurasan and was later raised in Baghdad, where Abdallah probably then resided. He thereafter disappears from sources, and later died at an unknown date in the 9th-century.\n\n"}
{"id": "2655117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2655117", "title": "Abgar II", "text": "Abgar II\n\nAbgar II (ruled 68–53 BC) was a Arab king of Edessa in Osroene (today part of eastern Turkey). In 64, he sided with the Romans helping Pompey's legate Lucius Afranius when the latter occupied northern Mesopotamia, but it is alleged that he helped to betray Marcus Crassus by leading him out onto an open plain, resulting in 53 in the Battle of Carrhae, which destroyed an entire Roman army. What is certain is that he gained no benefits from the battle, since shortly after he was deposed by Orodes II in a move to strengthen Parthian control over the region.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1977969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1977969", "title": "Abishabis", "text": "Abishabis\n\nAbishabis or Small Eyes (died 30 August 1843) was a religious leader of the Cree First Nation who became the prophet of a millenarian religious movement that swept through the Cree communities of northern Manitoba and Ontario during the 1840s. The religious philosophy of this movement was an admixture of Christianity and Cree beliefs. However, after losing much of his influence, Abishabis murdered a First Nations family living near York Factory. Following his arrest and imprisonment at Fort Severn, a group of three irate Cree forcibly removed him from his jail cell and took their revenge by smashing out his brains with an axe and burning his body.\n\n"}
{"id": "44111781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44111781", "title": "Abu Bara", "text": "Abu Bara\n\nAbū Barāʾ ʿĀmir ibn Mālik ibn Jaʿfar was the preeminent chieftain of the Arab tribe of Banu 'Amir during the time of the Islamic prophet Muhammad and interacted with the latter. During the expedition of Bi'r, four months after the Battle of Uhud, a delegation of Banu 'Amir came to Muhammad and presented him with a gift. Abu Bara' stayed in Medina. Muhammad declined to accept that gift because it was from a polytheist and asked Abu Bara' to embrace Islam. In response, Abu Bara' requested that Muhammad send some Muslims to the people of Najd to invite them to convert to Islam. At first, Muhammad was quite apprehensive of this, as he feared that some harm might befall on these Muslim missionaries. Yo assuage Muhammad’s hesitation, Abu Bara' guaranteed the safety of the Muslim emissaries. He stated, \"I will protect them.\"Ibn Ishaq's Biography claims that forty men were sent to them; but Sahih al-Bukhari states that there were seventy — Al-Mundhir bin ‘Amr, one of Banu Sa‘ida, nicknamed ‘Freed to die’ — commanded that group, who were the best and most learned in the Qur'an and jurisprudence. But the Muslim's were killed\n\n"}
{"id": "424739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=424739", "title": "Abuse", "text": "Abuse\n\nAbuse is the improper usage or treatment of an entity, often to unfairly or improperly gain benefit. Abuse can come in many forms, such as: physical or verbal maltreatment, injury, assault, violation, rape, unjust practices, crimes, or other types of aggression. To these descriptions, one can also add the Kantian notion of the wrongness of using another human being as means to an end rather than as ends in themselves. Some sources describe abuse as \"socially constructed\", which means there may be more or less recognition of the suffering of a victim at different times and societies.\n\nAbuse of authority, in the form of political corruption, is the use of legislated or otherwise authorised powers by government officials for illegitimate private gain. Misuse of government power for other purposes, such as repression of political opponents and general police brutality, is not considered political corruption. Neither are illegal acts by private persons or corporations not directly involved with the government. An illegal act by an officeholder constitutes political corruption only if the act is directly related to their official duties.\n\nAbuse of authority is separated from abuse of power in that the act is originally condoned, but is extended beyond that initially conceived and is in not all cases\n\nAn abuse of discretion is a failure to take into proper consideration, the facts and laws relating to a particular matter; an arbitrary or unreasonable departure from precedent and settled judicial custom.\n\nAbuse of information typically involves a breach of confidence or plagiarism, or extending the confidence of information beyond those authorised.\n\nIn the financial world, Insider trading can also be considered a misuse of internal information that gives an unfair advantage in investment.\n\nAbuse of power, in the form of \"malfeasance in office\" or \"official misconduct,\" is the commission of an unlawful act, done in an official capacity, which affects the performance of official duties. Malfeasance in office is often grounds for a for cause removal of an elected official by statute or recall election.\n\nA cause of action in tort arising from one party making a malicious and deliberate misuse or perversion of regularly issued court process (civil or criminal) not justified by the underlying legal action.\n\nRankism (also called abuse of rank) is treating people of a lower rank in an abusive, discriminatory, or exploitative way. Robert W. Fuller claims that rankism includes the abuse of the power inherent in superior rank, with the view that rank-based abuse underlies many other phenomena such as bullying, racism, sexism, and homophobia.\n\nAbusive supervision is most commonly studied in the context of the workplace, although can arise in other areas such as in the household and at school. \"Abusive supervision has been investigated as an antecedent to negative subordinate workplace outcome\". \"Workplace violence has combination of situational and personal factors\". The study that was conducted looked at the link between abusive supervision and different workplace events.\n\nAd hominem abuse (also called personal abuse or personal attacks) usually involves insulting or belittling one's opponent to invalidate his or her argument, but can also involve pointing out factual but ostensible character flaws or actions which are irrelevant to the opponent's argument.\n\nAdult abuse refers to the abuse of vulnerable adults.\n\nAlcohol abuse, as described in the DSM-IV, is a psychiatric diagnosis describing the recurring use of alcoholic beverages despite its negative consequences. Alcohol abuse is sometimes referred to by the less specific term alcoholism. However, many definitions of alcoholism exist, and only some are compatible with alcohol abuse. There are two types of alcoholics: those who have anti social and pleasure-seeking tendencies, and those who are anxiety-ridden- people who are able to go without drinking for long periods of time but are unable to control themselves once they start. Binge drinking is another form of alcohol abuse. Frequent binge drinking or getting severely drunk more than twice is classed as alcohol misuse. According to research done through international surveys, the heaviest drinkers happen to be the United Kingdom's adolescent generation.\n\nAnimal abuse is the infliction of suffering or harm upon animals, other than humans, for purposes other than self-defense. More narrowly, it can be harm for specific gain, such as killing animals for fur. Diverging viewpoints are held by jurisdictions throughout the world.\n\nAnti-social behavior is often seen as public behavior that lacks judgement and consideration for others and may damage them or their property. It may be intentional, as with vandalism or graffiti, or the result of negligence. Persistent anti-social behavior may be a manifestation of an antisocial personality disorder. The counterpart of anti-social behavior is pro-social behavior, namely any behavior intended to help or benefit another person, group or society.\n\nBullying is repeated acts over time that involves a real or perceived imbalance of power with the more powerful individual or group attacking those who are less powerful. Bullying may consist of three basic types of abuse – verbal, physical and emotional. It typically involves subtle methods of coercion such as intimidation. Bullying can be defined in many different ways. Although the UK currently has no legal definition of bullying, some US states have laws against it. Bullying is usually done to coerce others by fear or threat.\n\nCharacter assassination is an attempt to tarnish a person's reputation. It may involve exaggeration or manipulation of facts to present an untrue picture of the targeted person. It is a form of defamation and can be a form of an ad hominem (to the person) argument.\n\nChild abuse is the physical or psychological/emotional mistreatment of children. In the United States, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) define child maltreatment as any act or series of acts of commission or omission by a parent or other caregiver that results in harm, potential for harm, or threat of harm to a child. Most child abuse occurs in a child's home, with a smaller amount occurring in the organisations, schools or communities the child interacts with. There are four major categories of child abuse: neglect, physical abuse, psychological/emotional abuse, and sexual abuse.\n\nChild sexual abuse is a form of child abuse in which an adult or older adolescent abuses a child for sexual stimulation. Different forms of this include: asking or pressuring a child to engage in sexual activities (regardless of the outcome), some types of indecent exposure of genitalia to a child, displaying pornography to a child, actual sexual contact against a child, viewing or engaging in physical contact with the child's genitals for sexual purposes, or using a child to produce child pornography.\n\nChild-on-child sexual abuse refers to a form of child sexual abuse in which a prepubescent child is sexually abused by one or more other children or adolescent youths, and in which no adult is directly involved. This includes sexual activity between children that occurs without consent, without equality, or as a result of coercion; particularly when physical force, threats, trickery, or emotional manipulation are used to elicit co-operation.\n\nClandestine abuse is sexual, psychological, or physical abuse \"that is kept secret for a purpose, concealed, or underhanded.\"\n\nCyberbullying \"involves the use of information and communication technologies to support deliberate, repeated, and hostile behavior by an individual or group, that is intended to harm others.\" -Bill Belsey\n\nDating abuse is a pattern of abusive behaviour exhibited by one or both partners in a dating relationship. The behaviour may include, but is not limited to; physical abuse; psychological abuse; and sexual abuse.\n\nDefamation is the communication of a statement that makes a claim, expressly stated or implied to be factual, that may give an individual, business, product, group, government or nation a negative image. It is usually—but not always, a requirement that this claim be false and that the publication be communicated to someone other than the person defamed (termed the claimant).\n\nIt has been noted that disabled people are disproportionately affected by disability abuse and bullying, and such activity has been cited as a hate crime. The bullying is not limited to those who are visibly disabled – such as wheelchair-users or individuals with physical deformities (e.g., cleft lip) – but also those with learning disabilities such as autism and developmental coordination disorder. In the latter case, this is linked to a poor ability in physical education, and this behaviour can be encouraged by an ignorant physical education teacher. Abuse of the disabled is not limited to schools; there are many known cases in which the disabled have been abused by staff of a \"care institution\", such as the case revealed in a BBC Panorama programme on a Castlebeck care home (Winterbourne View) near Bristol, leading to its closure and suspension or firing of staff members.\n\nDiscriminatory abuse involves picking on or treating someone unfairly because something about them is different; for example concerning:\nDiscriminatory laws such as redlining have existed in many countries. In some countries, controversial attempts such as racial quotas have been used to redress negative effects of discrimination.\n\nOther acts of discrimination include political libel, defamation of groups and stereotypes based on exaggerations.\n\nDomestic abuse can be broadly defined as any form of abusive behaviours by one or both partners in an intimate relationship, such as marriage, cohabitation, family, dating, or even friends. It is important to remember that abuse is always intentional, and can not happen by accident.\nDomestic violence has many forms, including:\nDepending on local statues, the domestic violence may or may not constitute a crime, also depending on the severity and duration of specific acts, and other variables. Alcohol consumption and mental illness have frequently been associated with abuse.\n\nEconomic abuse is a form of abuse when one intimate partner has control over the other partner's access to economic resources, which diminishes the victim's capacity to support him/herself and forces him/her to depend on the perpetrator financially.\n\nElder abuse is a type of harm to older adults involving abuse by trusted individuals in a manner that \"causes harm or distress to an older person.\" This definition has been adopted by the World Health Organization from a definition put forward by Action on Elder Abuse in the UK. The abuse includes violence, neglect, and other crimes committed against an elderly person and their forms include physical, mental, and financial abuses as well as passive and active neglect.\n\nWhile there is an absence of consensus as to the precise definition of emotional abuse, it is classified by the U.S. federal Child Abuse Prevention and Treatment Act as a form of mental injury. The typical legal definition, particularly in the area of child welfare, accepted by the majority of U.S. states describes it as injury to the psychological capacity or emotional stability as evidenced by an observable or substantial change in behavior, emotional response or cognition.\n\nFalse accusations (or false allegations) can be in any of the following contexts:\n\nExamples of financial (or material) abuse include: illegal or unauthorised use of a person's property, money, pension book or other valuables (including changing the person's will to name the abuser as heir); and often fraudulently obtaining power of attorney, followed by deprivation of money or other property, by eviction from their own home; or by taking advantage of their age or disability.\n\nFurther reading\n\nFlag abuse (or flag desecration) is a term applied to various acts that intentionally destroy, damage or mutilate a flag in public, most often a national flag. Often, such action is intended to make a political point against a country or its policies. Some countries have laws forbidding methods of destruction (such as burning in public) or forbidding particular uses (such as for commercial purposes); such laws may distinguish between desecration of the country's own national flag and flags of other countries. Countries may have laws protecting the right to burn a flag as free speech.\n\nGaming the system (also called bending the rules, gaming the rules, playing the system, abusing the system, milking the system, or working the system) can be defined as using the rules and procedures meant to protect a system to instead manipulate the system for a desired outcome.\n\nGaslighting is manipulation through persistent denial, misdirection, contradiction, and lying in an attempt to destabilize and delegitimize a target. Its intent is to sow seeds of doubt in the targets, hoping to make them question their own memory, perception, and sanity. Instances may range from the denial by an abuser that previous abusive incidents ever occurred up to the staging of bizarre events by the abuser with the intention of disorienting the victim. The term owes its origin to \"Gaslight\", a 1938 play and 1944 film, and has been used in clinical and research literature.\n\nGay bashing and gay bullying are verbal or physical abuse against a person perceived by the aggressor to be gay, lesbian, or bisexual, including people who are actually heterosexual, or of non-specific or unknown sexual orientation.\n\nGroup psychological abuse refers to groups where methods of psychological abuse are frequently or systematically used on their members. Such abuse would be practices that treat the members as objects one is free to manipulate instead of respecting their autonomy, human rights, identity and dignity. In a group they may also play mind games with another person that can make the victim seem like they are accepted, but in actuality are backstabbing the person when his/her back is turned. When the victim requests assistance from the abusing group it is not given.\n\nHarassment covers a wide range of offensive behaviour. It is commonly understood as behaviour intended to disturb or upset. In the legal sense, it is behaviour which \"is found\" threatening or disturbing.\n\nPower harassment is harassment or unwelcome attention of a political nature, often occurring in the environment of a workplace.\n\nSexual harassment refers to persistent and unwanted sexual advances, typically in the workplace, where the consequences of refusing sexual requests are potentially very disadvantageous to the victim.\n\nHate crimes occur when a perpetrator targets a victim because of his or her perceived membership in a certain social group; usually defined by racial group, religion, sexual orientation, disability, ethnicity, nationality, age, gender, gender identity, or political affiliation.\n\n\"Hate crime\" generally refers to criminal acts which are seen to have been motivated by hatred of one or more of the listed conditions. Incidents may involve physical assault, damage to property, bullying, harassment, verbal abuse or insults, or offensive graffiti or inflammatory letters (hate mail).\n\nHazing is considered any activity involving harassment, abuse, or humiliation as a way of initiating a person into a group.\n\nHazing is seen in many different types of groups; including within gangs, clubs, sports teams, military units, and workplaces. In the United States and Canada, hazing is often associated with Greek-letter organisations (fraternities and sororities). Hazing is often prohibited by law and may be either physical (possibly violent) or mental (possibly degrading) practices. It may also include nudity or sexually oriented activities.\n\nHuman rights are \"basic rights and freedoms to which all humans are entitled.\" Examples of rights and freedoms which have come to be commonly thought of as human rights include civil and political rights, such as the right to life and liberty, freedom of expression, and equality before the law; and economic, social and cultural rights, including the right to participate in culture, the right to be treated with respect and dignity, the right to food, the right to work, and—in certain countries—the right to education.\n\nHumiliation is the abasement of pride, which creates mortification or leads to a state of being humbled or reduced to lowliness or submission. It can be brought about through bullying, intimidation, physical or mental mistreatment or trickery, or by embarrassment if a person is revealed to have committed a socially or legally unacceptable act.\n\nIncivility is a general term for social behaviour lacking in civility or good manners, ranging from rudeness or lack of respect towards elders; vandalism and hooliganism; or public drunkenness and threatening behaviour.\n\nInstitutional abuse can typically occur in a care home, nursing home, acute hospital or in-patient setting and can be any of the following:\n\nFurther reading\n\nAn insult is an expression, statement or behaviour considered to be degrading and offensive.\n\nIntimidation is intentional behaviour \"which would cause a person of ordinary sensibilities\" fear of injury or harm. It is not necessary to prove that the behaviour was so violent as to cause terror or that the victim was actually frightened. \"The calculated use of violence or the threat of violence to attain goals political, religious, or ideological in nature...through intimidation, coercion, or instilling fear\" can be defined as terrorism.\n\nLegal abuse refers to abuses associated with both civil and criminal legal action. Abuse can originate from nearly any part of the legal system, including frivolous and vexatious litigants, abuses by law enforcement, incompetent, careless or corrupt attorneys and misconduct from the judiciary itself.\n\nLegal abuse is responsible not only for injustice, but also harm to physical, psychological and societal health.\n\nMarket abuse may arise in circumstances where financial investors have been unreasonably disadvantaged, directly or indirectly, by others who:\n\n\"War crimes\" are \"violations of the laws or customs of war\", including \"murder, the ill-treatment or deportation of civilian residents of an occupied territory to slave labor camps\", \"the murder or ill-treatment of prisoners of war\", the killing of hostages, \"the wanton destruction of cities, towns and villages, and any devastation not justified by military, or civilian necessity\".\n\n\"War rape\" is rape committed by soldiers, other combatants or civilians during armed conflict or war. During war and armed conflict rape is frequently used as means of psychological warfare to humiliate the enemy and undermine their morale.\n\n\"Military sexual trauma\" is sexual assault and rape experienced by military personnel. It is often accompanied by posttraumatic stress disorder.\n\nMind abuse or mind control refers to a process in which a group or individual \"systematically uses unethically manipulative methods to persuade others to conform to the wishes of the manipulator(s), often to the detriment of the person being manipulated\". The term has been applied to any tactic, psychological or otherwise, which can be seen as subverting an individual's sense of control over their own thinking, behaviour, emotions or decision making.\n\nMisconduct means a wrongful, improper, or unlawful conduct motivated by premeditated or intentional purpose or by obstinate indifference to the consequences of one's acts. Three categories of misconduct are \"official misconduct\", \"professional misconduct \"and \"sexual misconduct\".\n\nMobbing means bullying of an individual by a group in any context. Identified as emotional abuse in the workplace (such as \"ganging up\" on someone by co-workers, subordinates or superiors) to force someone out of the workplace through rumour, innuendo, intimidation, humiliation, discrediting, and isolation, it is also referred to as malicious, nonsexual, nonracial, general harassment.\n\nMobbing can take place in any group environment such as a workplace, neighbourhood or family.\n\nNarcissistic abuse is a term that emerged in the late 20th century, and became more prominent in the 2000s decade. It originally referred specifically to abuse by narcissistic parents of their children, but more recently has come to mean any abuse by a narcissist (egotistical person or someone with arrogant pride).\n\nNeglect is a passive form of abuse in which a caregiver responsible for providing care for a victim (a child, a physically or mentally disabled adult, an animal, a plant, or an inanimate object) fails to provide adequate care for the victim's needs, to the detriment of the victim. It is typically seen as a form of laziness or apathy on the form of the caregiver, rather than ignorance due to inability; accordingly, neglect of a child by and adult with mental disorders or who is overworked is not considered abuse, although this may constitute child neglect nonetheless.\n\nExamples of neglect include failing to provide sufficient supervision, nourishment, medical care or other needs for which the victim is helpless to provide for themselves.\n\nNegligence is conduct that is culpable (to blame) because it falls short of what a reasonable person would do to protect another individual from foreseeable risks of harm.\n\nAbuse of parents by their children is a common but under-reported and under-researched subject. Parents are quite often subject to levels of childhood aggression, typically in the form of verbal or physical abuse, in excess of normal childhood aggressive outbursts. Parents feel a sense of shame and humiliation to have that problem, so they rarely seek help; nor is much help available today.\n\nPassive–aggressive behaviour is a form of covert abuse. It is passive, sometimes obstructionist resistance to following through with expectations in interpersonal or occupational situations.\nIt can manifest itself as learned helplessness, procrastination, stubbornness, resentment, sullenness, or deliberate and repeated failures in accomplishing tasks for which one is (often explicitly) expected to do.\n\nPatient abuse or neglect is any action or failure to act which causes unreasonable suffering, misery or harm to the patient. It includes physically striking or sexually assaulting a patient. It also includes withholding of necessary food, physical care, and medical attention. It applies to various contexts such as hospitals, nursing homes, clinics and home visits.\n\n\"Peer abuse\" is an expression popularised by author Elizabeth Bennett in 2006 to reinforce the idea that it is as valid to identify bullying as a form of abuse just as one would identify any other form of abuse. The term conveys similar connotations to the term \"peer victimisation\".\n\nPersecution is the systematic mistreatment of an individual or group by another group. The most common forms are religious persecution, ethnic persecution, and political persecution; though there is naturally some overlap between these terms.\n\nPhysical abuse is abuse involving contact intended to cause feelings of intimidation, pain, injury, or other physical suffering or bodily harm.\n\nTorture is any act by which severe pain, whether physical or psychological, is intentionally inflicted.\n\n\"Police brutality\" is the intentional use of excessive force by a police officer. Though usually physical it has the potential to arise in the form of verbal attacks or psychological intimidation. It is in some instances triggered by \"contempt of cop\", i.e., perceived disrespect towards police officers.\n\n\"Police corruption\" is a specific form of police misconduct designed to obtain financial benefits and/or career advancement for a police officer or officers in exchange for not pursuing, or selectively pursuing, an investigation or arrest.\n\n\"Police misconduct\" refers to inappropriate actions taken by police officers in connection with their official duties. Police misconduct can lead to a miscarriage of justice and sometimes involves discrimination.\n\nFurther reading\n\nA prejudice is a preconceived belief, opinion, or judgment toward a group of people or a single person because of race, social class, gender, ethnicity, sexual orientation, age, disability, political beliefs, religion, line of work or other personal characteristics. It also means a priori beliefs (without knowledge of the facts) and includes \"any unreasonable attitude that is unusually resistant to rational influence.\" Although positive and negative prejudice both exist, when used negatively, \"prejudice\" implies fear and antipathy toward such a group or person.\n\nPrisoner abuse is the mistreatment of persons while they are under arrest or incarcerated.\nAbuse falling into this category includes:\n\nProfessional abusers:\n\nAbuse may be:\n\nProfessional abuse always involves:\n\nFurther reading\n\nPsychological abuse, also referred to as emotional abuse or mental abuse, is a form of abuse characterized by a person subjecting or exposing another to behavior that is psychologically harmful. Such abuse is often associated with situations of power imbalance, such as abusive relationships, bullying, child abuse and in the workplace.\n\nRacism is abusive attitudes or treatment of others based on the belief that race is a primary determinant of human traits and capacities. It is a form of pride that one's own race is superior and, as a result, has a right to \"rule or dominate others,\" according to a \"Macquarie Dictionary\" definition. Racism is correlated with and can foster race-based prejudice, violence, dislike, discrimination, and oppression.\n\nRagging is a form of abuse on newcomers to educational institutions in India, Sri Lanka, and Australia. It is similar to the American phenomenon known as hazing. Currently, Sri Lanka is said to be its worst affected country in the world.\n\nRape, a form of sexual assault, is an assault by a person involving sexual intercourse (with or without sexual penetration) of another without the other's consent (this includes those who are considered unable to consent, e.g., if they were inebriated or asleep)\n\nThe rate of reporting, prosecution and convictions for rape varies considerably in different jurisdictions. The US Bureau of Justice Statistics (1999) estimated that 91% of US rape victims are female and 9% are male, with 99% of the offenders being male. In one survey of women, only two percent of respondents who stated they were sexually assaulted said that the assault was perpetrated by a stranger. For men, male-male rape in prisons has been a significant problem.\n\nRelational aggression, also known as covert aggression or covert bullying is a type of aggression in which harm is caused through damage to relationships or social status within a group rather than physical violence. Relational aggression is more common and has been studied more among girls than boys.\n\nReligious abuse refers to:\n\nRudeness (also called impudence or effrontery) is the disrespect and failure to behave within the context of a society or a group of people's social laws or etiquette.\n\nSatanic ritual abuse (SRA, sometimes known as ritual abuse, ritualistic abuse, organised abuse, sadistic ritual abuse and other variants) was a moral panic that originated in the United States in the 1980s, spreading throughout the country and eventually to many parts of the world, before subsiding in the late 1990s.\n\nSchool bullying is a type of bullying that occurs in connection with education, either inside or outside of school. Bullying can be physical, verbal, or emotional and is usually repeated over a period of time.\n\nSelf-destructive behaviour is a broad set of extreme actions and emotions including self-harm and drug abuse. It can take a variety of forms, and may be undertaken for a variety of reasons. It tends to be most visible in young adults and adolescents, but may affect people of any age.\n\nSexual abuse is the forcing of undesired sexual behaviour by one person upon another, when that force falls short of being considered a sexual assault. The offender is referred to as a \"sexual abuser\"\"\" or – more pejoratively – \"molester\"\"\". The term also covers \"any\" behaviour by \"any\" adult towards a child to stimulate either the adult or child sexually. When the victim is younger than the age of consent, it is referred to as child sexual abuse.\n\nSexual bullying is \"any bullying behaviour, whether physical or non-physical, that is based on a person's sexuality or gender. It is when sexuality or gender is used as a weapon by boys or girls towards other boys or girls – although it is more commonly directed at girls. It can be carried out to a person's face, behind their back or through the use of technology.\"\n\nSibling abuse is the physical, emotional, and/or sexual abuse of one sibling by another.\n\nIt is estimated that as many as 3% of children are dangerously abusive towards a sibling, making sibling abuse more common than either child abuse by parents or spousal abuse.\n\nA \"smear campaign\", \"smear tactic\" or simply \"smear\" is a metaphor for activity that can harm an individual or group's reputation by conflation with a stigmatised group. Sometimes smear is used more generally to include any reputation-damaging activity, including such colloquialisms as mud slinging.\n\nSpiritual abuse occurs when a person in religious authority or a person with a unique spiritual practice misleads and maltreats another person in the name of God or or in the mystery of any spiritual concept. Spiritual abuse often refers to an abuser using spiritual or religious rank in taking advantage of the victim's spirituality (mentality and passion on spiritual matters) by putting the victim in a state of unquestioning obedience to an abusive authority.\n\nStalking is unwanted attention towards others by individuals (and sometimes groups of people). Stalking behaviours are related to harassment and intimidation. The word \"stalking\" is a term that has different meanings in different contexts in psychology and psychiatry; and some legal jurisdictions use it to refer to a certain type of criminal offence. It may also to refer to criminal offences or civil wrongs that include conduct which some people consider to be stalking, such as those described in law as \"harassment\" or similar terms.\n\nStructural abuse is sexual, emotional or physical abuse that is imposed on an individual or group by a social or cultural system or authority. Structural abuse is indirect, and exploits the victim on an emotional, mental or psychological level.\n\nSubstance abuse, also known as drug abuse, is a patterned use of a drug in which the user consumes the substance in amounts or with methods which are harmful to themselves or others, and is a form of substance-related disorder. Widely differing definitions of drug abuse are used in public health, medical and criminal justice contexts. In some cases criminal or anti-social behavior occurs when the person is under the influence of a drug, and long term personality changes in individuals may occur as well. In addition to possible physical, social, and psychological harm, use of some drugs may also lead to criminal penalties, although these vary widely depending on the local jurisdiction.\n\nSurveillance abuse is the use of surveillance methods or technology to monitor the activity of an individual or group of individuals in a way which violates the social norms or laws of a society. Mass surveillance by the state may constitute surveillance abuse if not appropriately regulated. Surveillance abuse often falls outside the scope of lawful interception. It is illegal because it violates peoples' right to privacy.\n\nA taunt is a battle cry, a method in hand-to-hand combat, sarcastic remark, or insult intended to demoralise the recipient, or to anger them and encourage reactionary behaviours without thinking. Taunting can exist as a form of social competition to gain control of the target's cultural capital (i.e. status). In sociological theory, the control of the three social capitals is used to produce an advantage in the social hierarchy as to enforce one's own position in relation to others. Taunting is committed by either directly bullying, or indirectly encouraging others to bully the target. It is also possible to give a response of the same kind, to ensure one's own status. It can be compared to fighting words and trash-talk.\n\nTeasing is a word with many meanings. In human interactions, teasing comes in two major forms, \"playful\" and \"hurtful\". In mild cases, and especially when it is reciprocal, teasing can be viewed as playful and friendly.\nHowever, teasing is often unwelcome and then it takes the form of harassment. In extreme cases, teasing may escalate to actual violence, and may even result in abuse. Children are commonly teased on such matters as their appearance, weight, behaviour, abilities, and clothing. This kind of teasing is often hurtful, even when the teaser believes he or she is being playful. One may also tease an animal. Some animals, such as dogs and cats, may recognise this as play; but in humans, teasing can become hurtful and take the form of bullying and abuse.\n\nTerrorism is the systematic use of terror especially as a means of coercion.\nAt present, there is no internationally agreed definition of terrorism. Common definitions of terrorism refer only to those violent acts which are intended to create fear (terror), are perpetrated for an ideological goal (as opposed to a lone attack), and deliberately target or disregard the safety of non-combatants (e.g., neutral military personnel or civilians). It is sometimes sponsored by state policies when a country is not able to prove itself militarily to another enemy country.\n\nTrans bashing is the act of victimising a person physically, sexually, or verbally because they are transgender or transsexual. Unlike gay bashing, it is committed because of the target's actual or perceived gender identity, not sexual orientation.\n\nUmpire abuse refers to the act of abuse towards a umpire, referee, or other official in sport. The abuse can be verbal abuse (such as namecalling), or physical abuse (such as punching).\n\nVerbal abuse is a form of abusive behaviour involving the use of language. It is a form of profanity that can occur with or without the use of expletives. While oral communication is the most common form of verbal abuse, it also includes abusive words in written form.\n\nVerbal abuse is a pattern of behaviour that can seriously interfere with one's positive emotional development and can lead to significant detriment to one's self-esteem, emotional well-being, and physical state. It has been further described as an ongoing emotional environment organised by the abuser for the purposes of control.\n\nA whispering campaign is a method of persuasion in which damaging rumours or innuendo are spread about the target, while the source of the rumours seeks to avoid being detected while spreading them (for example, a political campaign might distribute anonymous flyers attacking the other candidate).\n\nWorkplace bullying, like childhood bullying, is the tendency of individuals or groups to use persistent aggressive or unreasonable behaviour against a co-worker. Workplace bullying can include such tactics as verbal, nonverbal, psychological, physical abuse and humiliation. This type of aggression is particularly difficult because unlike the typical forms of school bullying, workplace bullies often operate within the established rules and policies of their organisation and their society. Bullying in the workplace is in the majority of cases reported as having been perpetrated by a manager and takes a wide variety of forms.\n\nSome important characteristics and styles of abuse are:\n\nTelltale signs may include:\n\nAbusive power and control (or controlling behaviour or coercive control) is the way that abusers gain and maintain power and control over a victim for an abusive purpose such as psychological, physical, sexual, or financial abuse. The abuse can be for various reasons such as personal gain, personal gratification, psychological projection, devaluation, envy, or just for the sake of it as the abuser may simply enjoy exercising power and control.\n\nControlling abusers may use multiple tactics to exert power and control over their victims. The tactics themselves are psychologically and sometimes physically abusive. Control may be helped through economic abuse thus limiting the victim's actions as they may then lack the necessary resources to resist the abuse. The goal of the abuser is to control and intimidate the victim or to influence them to feel that they do not have an equal voice in the relationship.\n\nManipulators and abusers control their victims with a range of tactics, including positive reinforcement (such as praise, superficial charm, flattery, ingratiation, love bombing, smiling, gifts, attention), negative reinforcement, intermittent or partial reinforcement, psychological punishment (such as nagging, silent treatment, swearing, threats, intimidation, emotional blackmail, guilt trips, inattention) and traumatic tactics (such as verbal abuse or explosive anger).\n\nThe vulnerabilities of the victim are exploited with those who are particularly vulnerable being most often selected as targets. Traumatic bonding can occur between the abuser and victim as the result of ongoing cycles of abuse in which the intermittent reinforcement of reward and punishment creates powerful emotional bonds that are resistant to change and a climate of fear. An attempt may be made to normalise, legitimise, rationalise, deny, or minimise the abusive behaviour, or blame the victim for it.\n\nIsolation, gaslighting, mind games, lying, disinformation, propaganda, destabilisation and divide and rule are other strategies that are often used. The victim may be plied with alcohol or drugs to help disorientate them.\n\nCertain personality types feel particularly compelled to control other people.\n\nIn their review of data from the Dunedin Multidisciplinary Health and Development Study (a longitudinal birth cohort study; n = 941) Moffitt et al. report that while men exhibit more aggression overall, gender is not a reliable predictor of interpersonal aggression, including psychological aggression. The study found that whether male or female, aggressive people share a cluster of traits, including high rates of suspicion and jealousy; sudden and drastic mood swings; poor self-control; and higher than average rates of approval of violence and aggression (in American society, females are, on average, excused when violent against males). Moffitt et al. also argue that antisocial men exhibit two distinct types of interpersonal aggression (one against strangers, the other against intimate female partners), while antisocial women are rarely aggressive against anyone other than intimate male partners.\n\nMale and female perpetrators of emotional and physical abuse exhibit high rates of personality disorders. Rates of personality disorder in the general population are roughly 15%–20%, while roughly 80% of abusive men in court-ordered treatment programmes have personality disorders. There are no similar statistics on female perpetrators of family violence due to bias in the data gathering procedure. The only statistics available are the\nreports on child maltreatment, which show that mothers use physical discipline on children more often than fathers, while severe injury and sexual abuse are more often perpetrated by men.\n\nAbusers may aim to avoid household chores or exercise total control of family finances. Abusers can be very manipulative, often recruiting friends, law officers and court officials, even the victim's family to their side, while shifting blame to the victim.\n\nEnglish et al. report that children whose families are characterised by interpersonal violence, including psychological aggression and verbal aggression, may exhibit a range of serious disorders, including chronic depression, anxiety, posttraumatic stress disorder, dissociation and anger. Additionally, English et al. report that the impact of emotional abuse \"did not differ significantly\" from that of physical abuse. Johnson et al. report that, in a survey of female patients (n = 825), 24% suffered emotional abuse, and this group experienced higher rates of gynaecological problems. In their study of men emotionally abused by a wife/partner (n = 116), Hines and Malley-Morrison report that victims exhibit high rates of post traumatic stress disorder and alcoholism.\n\nNamie's study of workplace bullying found that 31% of women and 21% of men who reported workplace bullying exhibited three key symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder (hypervigilance, intrusive imagery, and avoidance behaviours). A 1998 study of male college students (n = 70) by Simonelli & Ingram found that men who were emotionally abused by their female partners exhibited higher rates of chronic depression than the general population.\n\nA study of college students (n = 80) by Goldsmith and Freyd report that many who have experienced emotional abuse do not characterise the mistreatment as abusive. Additionally, Goldsmith and Freyd show that these people also tend to exhibit higher than average rates of alexithymia (difficulty identifying and processing their own emotions).\n\nJacobson et al. found that women report markedly higher rates of fear during marital conflicts. However, a rejoinder argued that Jacobson's results were invalid due to men and women's drastically differing interpretations of questionnaires. Coker et al. found that the effects of mental abuse were similar whether the victim was male or female. Pimlott-Kubiak and Cortina found that severity and duration of abuse were the only accurate predictors of aftereffects of abuse; sex of perpetrator or victim were not reliable predictors.\n\nAnalysis of a large survey (n = 25,876) by LaRoche found that women abused by men were slightly more likely to seek psychological help than were men abused by women (63% vs. 62%).\n\nIn a 2007 study, Laurent, et al., report that psychological aggression in young couples (n = 47) is associated with decreased satisfaction for both partners: \"psychological aggression may serve as an impediment to couples development because it reflects less mature coercive tactics and an inability to balance self/other needs effectively.\" A 2008 study by Walsh and Shulman reports that psychological aggression by females is more likely to be associated with relationship dissatisfaction for both partners, while withdrawal by men is more likely to be associated with relationship dissatisfaction for both partners.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16874423", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16874423", "title": "Amanieu II (archbishop of Auch)", "text": "Amanieu II (archbishop of Auch)\n\nAmanieu II (after 1230 – 11 March 1318) was the Archbishop of Auch. Elected in 1261, he received consecration at Rome from Pope Urban IV in 1263.\n\nAmanieu was the third son of Roger, viscount of Fezensaguet, and Pucelle d'Albret, and thus a descendant of the Counts of Armagnac and the Sires of Albret. Amanieu's eldest brother was Geraud VI of Armagnac. In 1278 Geraud and Amanieu signed a treaty sharing jurisdiction in Barran, where the bishop had his summer residence, between the Church and the County. The village was fortified as a bastide the next year (1279).\n\nIn 1268 Amanieu purchased the hospital of Pont d'Artigues from the Order of Santiago for the Order of the Faith and Peace, a military order founded by his predecessor to keep the peace in Gascony. He also appointed his nephew master of the order, but it did not stave off the order's decline, which had been apparent from the early 1260s. Pope Gregory X dissolved the order in 1273 and its possessions ended up largely in the hands of the Order of Santiago and the church of Auch, though Les Feuillants Abbey laid claim to some.\n\n"}
{"id": "4294791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4294791", "title": "Animal model of stroke", "text": "Animal model of stroke\n\nAnimal models of stroke are procedures undertaken in animals (including non-human primates) intending to provoke pathophysiological states that are similar to those of human stroke to study basic processes or potential therapeutic interventions in this disease. Aim is the extension of the knowledge on and/or the improvement of medical treatment of human stroke.\n\nThe term stroke subsumes cerebrovascular disorders of different etiologies, featuring diverse pathophysiological processes. Thus, for each stroke etiology one or more animal models have been developed:\n\nAlthough multiple therapies have proven to be effective in animals, only very few have done so in human patients. Reasons for this are (Dirnagl 1999):\n\nStroke models are carried out on animals which inevitably suffer during the procedure. These encumbrances are e.g. social stress during single or multiple animal caging (depending on the species), transport, animal handling, food deprivation, pain after surgical procedures, neurological disabilities etc. Thus, according to general consensus, these experiments require ethical justification. The following arguments can be produced to give reason for the conduction of animal experiments in stroke research:\n<br>\nDuring animal experimentation the following prerequisites have to be fulfilled to maintain the ethical justification (“the three Rs”):\n\n"}
{"id": "5095425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5095425", "title": "Bocksten Man", "text": "Bocksten Man\n\nThe Bocksten Man () is the remains of a medieval man's body found in a bog in Varberg Municipality, Sweden. It is one of the best-preserved finds in Europe from that era and is exhibited at the Varberg County Museum. The man had been killed and impaled to the bottom of a lake which later became a bog. The bog where the body was found lies in Rolfstorp about east of Varberg on the west coast of Sweden, close to the most important medieval road in the area: the Via Regia. He was recently reconstructed to show what he may have looked like when he was alive.\n\nIn the 1880s a farm called \"Bocksten\" was established near a bog. The bog was then regularly drained, and a harrow used to gather peat. Albert Johansson had previously found a leather shoe in the wetland and gave it to the Varberg museum. A shoe sole was found in the bog in summer of 1934, but the curator of the local museum, Albert Sandklef, did not recognize its importance.\n\nThe body was found while gathering peat on 22June 1936 by Johansson. His harrow apparently caught on sackcloth. On examination Johansson saw parts of a skeleton. The next day, Johansson and his father contacted the local police and a doctor. On investigation, they realized it was too old to be of criminal interest.\n\nSandklef was contacted again. He took charge, inviting others — among them the well-known geologist Lennart von Post. The group visited on 24June. They measured and photographed the find before excavating it. The upper parts of the man had passed through the harrow and were badly damaged while the lower parts were intact.\n\nThe Swedish Museum of National Antiquities was consulted after the midsummer weekend to assist with conservation. Curator Gillis Olson and their textile expert Agnes Geijer took part in the conservation and evaluation. They came to Varberg on 9July, assisting Sandkelf in the documentation and giving conservation advice.\n\nThe Bocksten Man has been part of the museum's exhibition since 1937.\n\nThe man was tall and of slender build. There is an injury covering about on the right side of the cranium. Of the inner organs, parts of the lungs, liver and brain as well as cartilage are preserved.\n\nThe tunic is among the best-preserved medieval tunics in Europe, and made of woollen fabric. He was wearing a gugel hood with a long and wide liripipe (\"tail\"). On his upper body he wore a shirt and a cloak, while his legs were covered by hosiery.\n\nApart from the clothing he had a fabric bag, foot coverings, leather shoes, a belt, a leather sheath and two knives.\n\nThe leather sheath was wide and long, composed of three layers with a combined saltire and St George's Cross (thus giving a pattern similar to Union Jack) carved on the outer layer. On the inner layer a similar pattern was carved, though this time a pole was added to the symbol.\n\nThe man had been impaled to the lake bed with two poles; one of oak that hit his heart and one of beech which went through his back.\n\nSeveral people have evaluated the finding, among them Albert Sandklef, Margareta Nockert and Owe Wennerholm.\n\nThe find is generally dated to the 14th century. The dating is based on the clothing, especially the type of hood he wore. Albert Sandklef specified the date of the find to the 1360s, while Margareta Nockert suggests the 1330s. Owe Wennerholm argues that the hood he wore was used over a much larger time frame and only limits the date of the find to between 1250 and 1520. He does however put forward the hypothesis that the man might be Simon Gudmundi, a 15th-century priest, known to have died in 1491.\n\nA bit of the cloth was radiocarbon dated in the late 1980s. It gave as result a 68 percent likelihood of a date between 1290 and 1410 and a 95 percent likelihood of a date between 1290 and 1430. Some uncertainties do however arise as the conservation process might have affected the result. The fact that the find came from a bog is also of concern, as bog finds are known to be hard to date.\n\nBased on the teeth, forensic odontologist Gunnar Johansson has concluded that the man was between 25 and 35 years old when he died. Osteologist Nils-Gustaf Gevall has, based on the skeleton, come up with an age of between 35 and 40 years, though the man might have been up to 60 years old.\n\nDepending on the interpretation of the clothing, and in particular the hood, different conclusions can be made about the man's social background.\n\nThe hood he wore was usually worn by the more prosperous classes and it has therefore been suggested that he was a tax collector or a soldier recruiter.\n\nThe type of hood was also used within the church. Based on this and a symbol on a shield-shaped pendant, it has been suggested by Owe Wennerholm that the man belonged to the Ordo Sanctus Spiritus.\n\nSome days after the find was revealed a local farmer (\"Karl Andersson\") told Albert Sandklef of a legend he had heard as a child. Two old people from Åkulla had told his father about a man who was recruiting soldiers in the area. He had been killed by the peasants and buried in a bog. He would start haunting late at night, and in order to stop this, poles were struck through his body, whereafter the haunting stopped. As far as the farmer could remember they mentioned \"Store Mosse\", a bog about 10 miles from the find, close to Nackhälle village, though he acknowledged that his memory might fail him as he had grown up in the vicinity of that bog.\n\nThe farmer and Albert Sandklef went to Nackhälle and questioned several older people in the area. However, nobody recognized the legend.\n\nIt has been a matter of some discussion what actually caused the death of the man. In January 2006 a professor and a doctor at Sahlgrenska University Hospital performed an \"operation\" on a plastic model of the body, based on computed tomography of the body. As a result, they concluded that he had first been hit at the lower jaw, then at the right ear and finally a lethal hit further towards the back of his head.\n\nA hypothesis has been presented that the person was Simon Gudmundi, the dean of the Diocese of Linköping who died on 12 May 1491.\nIn his 1998 book, \"Vem var Bockstensmannen?\" (\"Who was the Bocksten Man?\"), Owe Wennerholm reasoned that Gudmundi's name fit with what might be initials found on what might be a micro shield. It is also likely that Gudmundi visited the area. He worked with a group which tried to get Catherine of Vadstena canonized. One of her reputed miracles had taken place in the neighboring village. Speculation was that he was killed by order of Hemming Gadh so that Gadh could assume the post of dean of the Diocese of Linköping.\n\nThe bog in which the man was found is close to the border between Himle and Faurås hundreds. It is also close to the border between Rolfstorp, Sibbarp, Köinge and Svartrå parishes. The hundreds were responsible for the handling of murders, which meant that in this case there might be some confusion over the correct hundred to handle the case, to the advantage of the killer(s). It has therefore been assumed that the killer(s) had good local knowledge.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "779918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=779918", "title": "Boltysh crater", "text": "Boltysh crater\n\nThe Boltysh Crater (Bovtyshka Crater) is an impact crater in the Kirovohrad Oblast of Ukraine, near the village of Bovtyshka. The crater is in diameter and its age of 65.17 ± 0.64 million years, based on argon dating techniques, is within error of that of Chicxulub Crater in Mexico, and the Cretaceous–Paleogene boundary (K–Pg boundary). The Chicxulub impact is believed to have caused the mass extinction at the end of the Cretaceous period, which included the extinction of the dinosaurs. The Boltysh impact likely occurred several thousand years before Chicxulub, suggesting the extinction event may have been driven by multiple meteor strikes over an extended period of time about 65 million years ago.\n\nBoltysh Crater is located in central Ukraine, in the basin of the Tiasmyn River, a tributary of the Dnieper River. It is in diameter, and is surrounded by an ejecta blanket of breccia preserved over an area of . It is estimated that immediately after the impact, ejecta covered an area of to a depth of or greater, and was some deep at the crater rim.\n\nThe crater contains a central uplift about in diameter, rising about above the base level of the crater. This uplift currently lies beneath about of sediment deposited since the impact, and was discovered in the 1960s during oil shale deposits exploration.\n\nWhen first identified, the age of the crater could only be roughly constrained between the age of the impacted rocks (the target) and the age of overlying sediments. The target rocks date from the Cenomanian (98.9 to 93.5 million years ago) and Turonian (93.5 to 89 million years ago) epochs. Bore samples of sediments overlying the crater contain fossils dating from the Paleocene epoch, 66 to 54.8 million years ago. The age of the crater was thus constrained to between 54 and 98 million years.\n\nSubsequent radiometric dating reduced the uncertainty. The concentration of decay products in impact glasses from the crater were used to derive an age of 65.04 ± 1.10 million years. Analysis of argon radioactive decay products yielded an age of 65.17 ± 0.64 million years. These ages are similar to that of Chicxulub Crater. An August 2010 study of ancient fern spikes suggests the Boltysh impact likely occurred several thousand years before Chicxulub.\n\nAlthough the ages derived for Chicxulub and Boltysh are the same to within their statistical errors, it does not necessarily follow that they formed at exactly the same time. At the estimated rate of impacts on the Earth, it would not be extremely unusual for a Boltysh-sized crater to be formed within half a million years of Chicxulub. The dating of these impact craters is not yet accurate enough to establish whether the impactors arrived thousands of years apart, perhaps as part of a generally elevated rate of impacts at that time, or were almost simultaneous, like the impacts of the fragments of Comet Shoemaker-Levy 9 on Jupiter in 1994.\n\nThe discovery of the unconfirmed Silverpit crater and the early report of its age as 65–60 million years initially gave greater weight to the hypothesis that the Earth was struck by multiple impactors at this time, however, the age estimate has now been broadened to 74–45 million years.\n\nThe controversial Shiva crater is claimed to have formed around the same time, but its status as an impact crater is disputed.\n\n"}
{"id": "26135912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26135912", "title": "Bomb-making instructions on the internet", "text": "Bomb-making instructions on the internet\n\nThe availability of bomb-making instruction on the Internet has been a cause célèbre amongst lawmakers and politicians anxious to curb the Internet frontier by censoring certain types of information deemed \"dangerous\" which is available online. \"Simple\" examples of explosives created from cheap, readily available ingredients are given.\n\nThe Federal Bureau of Investigation reports that there were 1,699 criminal bombings in 1989 and 3,163 in 1994.\n\nSupporters of digital rights argue that managers of Internet traffic do not have a right to deep packet inspection, the automated system of analyzing what information is being transmitted, for example refusing to deliver a packet with the words \"bomb instructions\" and alerting authorities to the ISP that requested the information. They suggest that \"we never seem to hear\" about how the same instructions, including those for building nuclear devices, have been available in public libraries for decades without calls for censorship. In the late 19th century, Johann Most compiled Austrian military documents into a booklet demonstrating the use of explosives and distributed it at anarchist picnics without repercussion.\n\nMike Godwin, then of the Electronic Frontier Foundation, claimed that journalists have played a key role in linking the creation of \"bombs\" with \"the Internet\" in the public conscious.\n\nCritics of the prosecution of Sherman Austin, an American anarchist charged with publishing instructions on the Internet, have pointed out that the Wikipedia article on Molotov cocktails contains more detailed instructions on the construction of homemade explosives, than Austin's website did.\n\nMost American websites offering bomb-making instructions would not face civil liability, since \"Hess v. Indiana\" and \"Waller v. Osbourne\" determined that free speech restrictions can only be applied if the goal was \"producing imminent lawless conduct\" among a single target group – which is not the case for a website available to a large swath of the population – making the situation comparable to music advocating violence or suicide in its lyrics.\n\nIn 1986, prior to the widespread use of the Internet, police investigated the sharing of a computer print-out from a digital manual titled the \"Complete Book of Explosives\" written by a group calling itself \"Phoenix Force\", as students shared the list with classmates and experimented with building many of the bombs it listed.\n\nAfter the 1995 Oklahoma City bombing, anonymous usenet posts criticised the construction of the bomb, and offered suggestions on how to overcome the failure of the bomb to do its maximum intended damage. On March 23, 1996, the full text of the \"Terrorist Handbook\" was published online, including instructions on building the bomb used in the bombing, with the suggested upgrades. When Mohammed Usman Saddique was arrested in 2006, he was charged with \"possessing a document or record containing information of a kind likely to be useful to a person committing or preparing an act of terrorism\" for having a copy of the manual on CD-ROM.\n\nAlso in 1994, a thread was made on the National Rifle Association's bulletin board by a user named \"Warmaster\" that detailed how to make bombs out of baby food jars.\n\nA 1996 copy of the left-wing online German magazine \"Radikal\" hosted on a Dutch server provided detailed instructions of how to sabotage railroad lines. In March of that year, a New South Wales MP called for legislation regarding internet access for youth, following reports of a boy injuring himself while trying to follow a bomb recipe online.\n\nThrough 1998, the common view of the instructions was that they were used by curious youth anxious to build explosives simply as a dangerous experiment \"with no intention of hurting anybody\".\n\nControversy over the availability of this information on the internet started as a result of the Columbine High School Shooting. Also, police claim that they found printed copies of bomb-making instructions downloaded from the Internet in the bedroom of Anthony \"T.J.\" Solomon, the perpetrator of the 1999 Heritage High School shooting.\n\nAlso in 1999, David Copeland planted nail bombs in London, killing 3 people and injuring 139, based on techniques discussed in \"The Terrorist's Handbook\" and \"How to Make Bombs: Part Two\", which he had downloaded from the internet.\n\nThe militant anti-abortion movement Army of God also provided information on constructing bombs in preparation for anti-abortion violence on their website.\n\nIn 2001, journalists discovered that al-Qaeda members in Afghanistan had been using the internet to learn bomb-making techniques.\n\nIn Finland in 2002, \"RC\" discussed bomb-making techniques on the internet on a Finnish website whose moderator displayed a picture of his own face on Osama bin Laden's body, and then RC set off a bomb that killed seven people, including himself.\n\nIn 2002, New Zealander Bruce Simpson published \" The Low Cost Cruise Missile; A looming threat?\" showing readers how they could construct a cruise missile for under $5,000.\n\nIn 2003, Jeremy Parker of the Southern Knights of the Ku Klux Klan posted detailed bomb instructions on the internet in response to Martin Luther King Jr. Day, stating \"sure would hate to see anything happen\". \n\nThe report \"How to Bomb Thy Neighbor: Hamas Offers Online 'Academy'\" describes a Hamas online interactive 14-lesson course for Muslims on bomb-making, as part of a campaign to increase the number of bomb-makers.\n\nIn 2004, a Palestinian group posted an online video showing the proper construction of suicide vests, hoping to support the Iraqi insurgency.\n\nThe 2004 Madrid train bombers, who killed 191 people and wounded 1,800, downloaded their bomb-making instructions from the internet.\n\nThe Canadian Saad Khalid admitted that he had downloaded bomb-making materials online in 2006, leading to the 2006 Toronto terrorism case.\n\nBritish student Isa Ibrahim made a suicide vest bomb using instructions he found online. He planned on exploding the device at a mall. He was sentenced in July 2009 to a minimum of ten years in jail.\n\nNajibullah Zazi, an al-Qaeda member who pleaded guilty in February 2010 to a plot to bomb the New York City Subway system, searched online for information on how to build a bomb and where to buy the parts.\n\nIn 1995, Dianne Feinstein produced a bill to the United States Senate making it illegal to distribute bomb-making information, punishable by a $250,000 fine and 20 years' imprisonment. Two years later, the body voted 94–0 in favor of implementing it. Although it was frequently said to be in response to Timothy McVeigh's Oklahoma bombing, he had actually used two traditional hard-copy books titled \"Homemade C-4, A Recipe for Survival\" and \"Ragnar's Big Book of Homemade Weapons and Improvised Explosives\". Critics later pointed out both books were still for sale at Amazon.com, suggesting that legislators were not concerned about the true dissemination of such information. When lawsuits erupted over DeCSS technology available over the Internet, allowing users to \"crack\" DVD encryption, the founders questioned why bomb-making instructions were legal, while software cracks that simply cost corporations money were not.\n\nIn 2004, German authorities forced a seventeen-year-old to shut down his Web site, entitled \"Der Abarisch Sturm\" after he posted detailed instructions of how to build a bomb. That year, French police also arrested a computer student in Alfortville who claimed he had posted similar instructions \"for fun.\"\n\nA 2007 attempt by the European Commission to suppress bomb-making websites by making ISPs criminally liable for allowing a user to view such a page was ridiculed by \"The Register\" as \"fantastically ignorant of internet realities\"\n\nWeb sites offering advice on construction explosives are labelled as \"Refused Classification\" in Australia, as it is deemed to violate \"all acceptable community standards\".\n\n"}
{"id": "41165568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41165568", "title": "Bradburn Affect Balance Scale", "text": "Bradburn Affect Balance Scale\n\nThe Bradburn Affect Balance Scale is a self-report measure of quality of life. The scale consists of ten mood states (for example, item one is \"particularly excited or interested in something\"), and the subject must report if they have been in that state in the last week.\n\nThe scale was included in the 1978-1979 Canada Health Survey.\n"}
{"id": "3787142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3787142", "title": "Branko Miljković", "text": "Branko Miljković\n\nBranko Miljković (Serbian Cyrillic: Бранко Миљковић; 29 January 1934 – 12 February 1961) was an iconic Serbian poet.\n\nHe was best known throughout Yugoslavia, the Soviet Union and other countries of the Eastern Bloc for his influential writings. At a time when no one could have foreseen anything but a bright future for the poet, he died prematurely in 1961 at the age of 27. He was found hanging from a tree in Zagreb, today's Croatia. This controversial incident was officially recorded as a suicide.\n\nIn his one-line poem \"Epitaph,\" he writes \"Ubi me prejaka reč\" (\"I was killed by a word too strong\") almost sensing his premature end of life. During the last years of his life, he published five books of poetry (\"I Wake Her in Vain\", \"Death against Death\", \"The Origin of Hope\", \"Fire and Nothing\", \"The Shining Blood\", criticism, and translations of the French Symbolists and Russian poet Osip Mandelstam. He continues to influence poets to this day.\n\n"}
{"id": "47700020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47700020", "title": "Caregiver burden", "text": "Caregiver burden\n\nCaregiver burden is the stress which is perceived by caregivers due to the home care situation. This subjective burden is one of the most important predictors for negative outcomes of the care situation – for the caregivers themselves as well as for the one who requires care.\n\nCaregivers are all persons who support and help a person in need of care regularly because of personal – not professional – reasons. That means every kind of help and support. It doesn’t need to be health care in the narrow sense. The caregiver doesn’t need to be akin with the person they support. Often friends, neighbors or acquaintances provide support, too.\n\nFrom a scientific perspective, caregiver burden is a theoretical construct. The conceptual basis for the appraisal of the care situation is the Transactional Model of Lazarus and Folkman.\nThe subjective evaluation of the care situation (stressor) by the caregivers is critical for the development and maintenance of subjective burden.\n\nAccording to the Transactional Model, people deal with stressful situations by appraisals of stressor and resources. The primary appraisal deals with the individual meaning of the specific stressor, which is the care situation in this case. The secondary appraisal analyzes the own abilities and resources to cope with that situation. On this basis, the individual coping efforts are used to deal with the stressful situation. As per Carver, these efforts can focus on problem management or emotional regulation. Dysfunctional strategies are possible, too. Studies found that a high caregiver burden often comes along with dysfunctional strategies what means activities which don’t solve the problem but worsen it (e.g. self-criticism, substance abuse).\n\nThe (dis)balance between burden/vulnerabilities and resources of the caregiver determines the consequences of a care situation. Home care can result in positive as well as negative experiences.\n\nRegardless of the caregiver burden, relatives can experience benefits - positive consequences - of the home care situation. This may be the feeling of being needed or the knowledge that they have acquired new skills etc.\n\nCaregiver burden comes out when the caregiver perceives the home care situation as a negative experience. Caregivers are typically not trained. Caring is a serious challenge for them. An intensive adaptiation to the care situation is necessary.\n\nThe caregiver burden can be based on a variety of aspects of the care situation (e.g. lack of recovery time, challenging behavior of the care requiring person, limitation of social activities and contacts). Studies showed that four aspects are particularly burdensome:\n\nNegative outcomes are often not determined by the care situation per se but by the caregiver burden. So the subjective burden is one of the most important predictors of negative outcomes of the home care situation. All types of caregiver inventions should have a positive impact on that burden.\n\nPinquart and Sörensen (2003) researched the health of caregivers compared to not caregiving relatives. Referring to the physical health status, the caregivers were only little impaired. But referring to the psychological health status, there was a clear difference: Caregivers reported significantly more often depressive symptoms than not caregiving relatives. Unfortunately, this meta-analysis did not consider the impact of subjective burden.\n\nIn another extensive meta-analysis Pinquart and Sörensen could show that the subjective burden is an important predictor of the health of carers.\n\nStudies found an increased mortality of caregiving spouses. This effect was only found for spouses who felt burdened due to the care situation. Thus, not the home care per se is a risk but the subjective burden.\n\nWithout consideration of the caregiver burden, the mortality of caregivers is even slightly reduced compared to non-caregivers.\n\nThe behavior towards the person in need of care can range from loving devotion to abusive behavior which can manifest in neglecting to mistreatment. The most common form of abusive behavior is verbal aggression, mainly due to challenging behaviour of the person in need for care. Researchers found that this negative forms of caring style occurs especially towards burdened caregivers.\n\nThe subjective burden is an important factor that influences the passing into the nursing home (institutionalization). Particularly the care of people with dementia is associated with challenging behavior and caregiver burden. Both increases the likelihood of institutionalization. In the care of people with dementia, there is consistent evidence: The higher the caregiver burden, the more likely is the institutionalization.\n\nThe assessment of caregiver burden enables to judge the situation of the caregiver. The correct measurement of subjective burden is necessary to draw conclusions about the effectiveness of family interventions.\n\nThe care situation is an important, highly specific stressor which should be treated with specific interventions. A measurement with general stress-scales is therefore not useful, because in this case the score represents all kind of stress, indiscriminately of its origin. Valid, economic and internationally standardized measurement tools for the specific stressful situation of family caregivers are therefore inevitable.\n\nIn Anglo-American countries, a number of burden scales have been developed; e.g. the Burden Interview, the Caregiver Strain Index and the Cost of Care Index. The Burden Scale for Family Caregivers, which has been developed in Germany, is now available in 20 languages.\n\nThe BSFC exists in a detailed version with 28 items, and in a short, more efficient version (BFSC-s) with ten items.\n\nCompared to other burden scales, the BSFC has two benefits. There is a long and a short version, both validated in separate studies. Furthermore, both versions are free in 20 languages inclusive introduction for evaluation and interpretation.\n\nA first, reliable and valid version of the German version was published in 1993. In 2001, the validity was tested and confirmed to a large sample of both dementia and for other causes of care requirement again. In 2003, the English version has been validated. In 2014, the validation study for the short version and an extended validation of the original version have been published.\n\nThe BSFC consists of 28 items in the detailed or 10 items in the short version. The caregivers have to rate these items on a four-point scale from “strongly agree” to “strongly disagree”.\n\nAn evaluation is possible both on item level and on score level. A differentiated detection of the critical aspects of home care is possible with the analysis on item level. The score measures the total burden. This is an important factor to judge the caregiver's situation.\n\nDue to the high importance of the caregiver burden with regard to the care giving process, it is necessary to develop interventions to reduce this burden and to examine their effectiveness. Successful interventions should be available to as many caregivers as possible. \"The usefulness of an intervention is the multiplication of effectiveness and usage.” (Elmar Gräßel) It is therefore both necessary to develop interventions and to improve and to find ways to strengthen the awareness and use of these interventions.\n\nUnburdening interventions for caregivers should consider four central aspects:\nThere are different supporting services, e.g. caregiver counselling, professional training, self-help groups, ambulant nursing services or technical help like intelligent light to preserve the autonomy of the person in need of care.\n\nAnother effective relief is the support given to caregivers by family members, friends and acquaintances. They provide emotional and instrumental support and are an important source to access supporting services.\n\n"}
{"id": "51852451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51852451", "title": "Carl Rasmussen", "text": "Carl Rasmussen\n\nJens Erik Carl Rasmussen (31 August 1841, Ærøskøbing – 1 October 1893, at sea, between Orkney and Shetland) was a Danish painter, known for his maritime scenes and views of Greenland. \n\nHe was the eldest of eleven children born to a master tailor who later became City Treasurer. At fifteen, he went to Copenhagen to learn the hosiery trade and completed his training in 1861. While there, however, he was attracted to the art works he saw and took drawing lessons with the architects Hans J. Holm and . Later, he took lessons with the animal painter Didrik Frisch. \n\nIn need of some immediate income, he took passage as a cabin boy on a relative's merchant ship and visited Scotland; painting several works along the way. Upon returning, he enrolled in courses at the Copenhagen Technical College to improve his understanding of perspective.\n\nAt that time, he was able to obtain a scholarship to the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts, where he studied until 1866 with the landscape painter, C.F. Aagaard. His first showing was at the Charlottenborg Spring Exhibition in 1863. He would exhibit there regularly until his death.\n\nInspired by his sailing experience, he visited Greenland in 1870-71, making sketches that later became paintings, one of which was purchased for the Royal Collection. By 1880, he had become successful enough to get married, buy a home and establish a studio in Marstal on Ærø. His first work there was a large mural at Marstal Church, depicting Jesus calming the waters, which featured portraits of prominent local citizens. \n\nIn 1893, he was returning from Greenland on the brig \"Peru\" when he apparently fell overboard and drowned. He was last seen by the helmsman, standing aft with his easel. When he was reported missing, an extensive search of the area was conducted, but they were unable to find him.\n\nHis life became the subject of a novel: \"Sidste rejse\" (\"Last Journey\", 2007) by Carsten Jensen. The largest collection of his works is at the Marstal Maritime Museum.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47490048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47490048", "title": "Dan Deșliu", "text": "Dan Deșliu\n\nDan Deșliu (August 31, 1927 – September 4, 1992) was a Romanian poet.\n\nBorn in Bucharest, his parents were Ștefan Deșliu, an accountant at the Bulandra theatre company and later administrator of the Workers' Theatre, and his wife Elena (\"née\" Săndulescu). He began secondary school at Matei Basarab Lyceum in his native city, followed by the Mediaș aeronautics school and the Bucharest industrial and building high school. He then attended the Dramatic Arts Conservatory under Maria Filotti. From 1946 to 1948, he appeared as an actor at Petroșani and Bucharest, also working as an editor for \"Flacăra\" magazine. He was later an editor at \"Scînteia\" and, between 1961 and 1962, was editor-in-chief at \"Luceafărul\". His first published work was the sonnet \"Paseri\", which appeared in George Călinescu's \"Lumea\" in 1945; his first book was the 1949 \"Goarnele inimii\". He won the State Prize in 1949, 1950 and 1951, and in 1974 was awarded the Romanian Writers' Union Prize for his book \"Cetatea de pe aer\". In 1978, he took the same prize for \"Un haiduc pe bicicletă\". Together with Eugen Frunză, he composed the lyrics for \"Te slăvim, Românie\", which served as Romania's national anthem from 1953 to 1977.\n\nDuring the 1940s and '50s, he quickly came to the literary forefront as a representative poet of his era, much lauded for his militant socialist realist poetry that enthusiastically chronicled the events of the day. This was embodied by his first book as well as the ones that followed across the next decade: \"Lazăr de la Rusca\" (1949), \"Minerii din Maramureș\" (1951), \"Cântec de ruină\" (1957) and \"Ceva mai greu\" (1958). Afterwards, he attempted a shift toward a skeptically elegiac, obsessive lyricism that dealt with regret and lack of fulfillment (\"Cercuri de copac\", 1962; \"Drumul spre Dikson\", 1969; \"Cetatea de pe aer\", 1974).\n\nStarting in 1962 and particularly from 1970, he began to criticize the policies of the Romanian Communist Party, and as a result was placed under thorough surveillance by the Securitate secret police. In the 1980s, he turned toward open dissidence, repudiating his \"revolutionary\" past, quitting the party in 1980 and directly criticizing dictator Nicolae Ceaușescu, whom he accused of behaving as if he were \"the owner of Romania\". In March 1989, he sent an open letter to Radio Free Europe decrying the domestic situation in his country, prompting his placement under house arrest. An excellent swimmer, Deșliu drowned at Neptun nearly three years after the Romanian Revolution; it is unknown whether his death was accidental or deliberate. After a thorough search covering the 20 km between Costinești and Vama Veche, his intact body was found after eight days beside the dock of Ceaușescu's former villa in Neptun. A diary of his, likely written in 1990-1991, appeared in 2001.\n"}
{"id": "24632324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24632324", "title": "Denial of pregnancy", "text": "Denial of pregnancy\n\nDenial of pregnancy (also called pregnancy denial) is a rare form of denial exhibited by women to either the fact or the implications of their own pregnancy. One study found that women who denied their pregnancy represented 0.26% of all deliveries. A later study cited that at 20 weeks gestation approximately 1 in 475 pregnant women denied their pregnancy, and said the proportion of cases persisting even until delivery is about 1 in 2500 refusing to acknowledge that they are pregnant. \n\nThis is a form of denial that is so extreme as to fall under the category of delusion. While physical symptoms of pregnancy do usually occur, they are sometimes misinterpreted by the woman. Some women interpret the sensation of something growing inside them as cancer, or a blood clot. Some women might believe fetal movements are their organs coming loose inside her body. During the psychotic denial pregnancy, women tend to hide their pregnancy from everyone and put their fetus at a high risk.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33544044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33544044", "title": "Druidry (modern)", "text": "Druidry (modern)\n\nDruidry, sometimes termed Druidism, is a modern spiritual or religious movement that generally promotes harmony, connection, and reverence for the natural world. This commonly is extended to include respect for all beings, including the environment itself. Many forms of modern Druidry are modern Pagan religions, although most of the earliest modern Druids identified as Christians. Originating in Britain during the 18th century, Druidry was originally a cultural movement, only gaining religious or spiritual connotations in the 19th century.\n\nThe core principle of Druidry is respect and veneration of nature, and as such it often involves participation in the environmental movement. Another prominent belief among modern Druids is the veneration of ancestors, particularly those who belonged to prehistoric societies.\n\nArising from the 18th century Romanticist movement in Britain, which glorified the ancient Celtic peoples of the Iron Age, the early neo-Druids aimed to imitate the Iron Age priests who were also known as druids. At the time, little accurate information was known about these ancient priests, and the modern Druidic movement has no direct connection to them, despite contrary claims made by some modern Druids.\n\nIn the late 18th century, modern Druids developed fraternal organizations modeled on Freemasonry that employed the romantic figure of the British Druids and Bards as symbols of indigenous British spirituality. Some of these groups were purely fraternal and cultural, creating traditions from the national imagination of Britain. Others, in the early 20th century, merged with contemporary movements such as the physical culture movement and naturism. Since the 1980s, some modern druid groups have adopted similar methodologies to those of Celtic Reconstructionist Paganism in an effort to create a more historically accurate practice. However, there is still controversy over how much resemblance modern Druidism may or may not have to the Iron Age druids.\n\nModern Druidry derives its name from the magico-religious specialists of Iron Age Western Europe who were known as druids. There is no real historical continuity between the druids of Iron Age Europe and the modern Druids. However, some Druids nevertheless regard modern Druidry as a genuine continuation of the practices of the Iron Age druids. The concerns of modern Druidry—which include healing the planet and seeking connections with the natural world—are likely very different from those of the Iron Age societies in which the original druids lived.\n\nEverything presently known about the Iron Age druids derives from archaeological evidence and Greco-Roman textual sources, rather than material produced by these druids themselves. Due to the scarcity of knowledge about the Iron Age druids, their belief system cannot be accurately reconstructed. Some Druids incorporate everything that is known about Iron Age druids into their practices. However, as noted by scholar of religion Jenny Butler, the historical realities of Iron Age religion are often overlooked by Druids in favour of \"a highly romanticised version\".\nMany Druids believe that the practices of the Iron Age druids should be revived yet modified to meet current needs.\nIn Ireland, some Druids have claimed that because the island was never conquered by the Roman Empire, here the Iron Age druids survived and their teachings were passed down hereditarily until modern times, at which modern Druids can reclaim them. Some Druids claim that they can channel information about the Iron Age druids.\n\nDruidry has been described as a religion, a new religious movement, a \"spiritual movement\", and as a nature religion. It has been described as a form of contemporary Paganism, and on the contemporary Pagan spectrum between reconstructionism and eclecticism, Druidry sits on the latter end. Various Druidic groups also display New Age and neo-shamanic influences.\nThe Druidic community has been characterised as a neo-tribe, for it is disembedded and its membership is elective.\nDruidry has been described as a form of Celtic spirituality, or \"Celtic-Based Spirituality\". Scholar of religion Marion Bowman described Druidry as the \"Celtic spirituality \"par excellence\". Some practitioners regard Druidry as a form of \"native spirituality\", and it displays an affinity with folk religions.\nIn defining Druidry as a \"native spirituality\", some Druids seek to draw elements from other native religions, such as the belief systems of Australian Aboriginal and Native American communities. Practitioners differ in the levels of formality and seriousness that they bring to their adherence. Some groups use the word \"Druid\" for both male and female practitioners, eschewing the term \"Druidess\" for female followers.\n\nFollowing terms devised by the Druid Philip Carr-Gomm, a distinction has been drawn between \"cultural\" Druids, who adopt the term as part of their Welsh and Cornish cultural activities, and \"esoteric\" Druids who pursue the movement as a religion. The scholar of religion Marion Bowman suggested \"believing\" as an alternative term to \"esoteric\". There are also individuals who cross these two categories, involving themselves in cultural Druidic events while also holding to modern Pagan beliefs. Some cultural Druids nevertheless go to efforts to disassociate themselves from their esoteric and Pagan counterpart; the Cornish Gorseth for example has publicly disassociated any links to Paganism.\nSome Druids identify as Pagan, others as Christian. Some practitioners merge Pagan and Christian elements in their own personal practice, in at least one case identifying as a \"Christodruid\". Other practitioners adopt additional elements; for instance there are self-described \"Zen Druids\" and \"Hasidic Druids\". The Berengia Order of Druids drew upon elements from science fiction television shows like \"Star Trek\" and \"Babylon 5\".\n\nThe earliest modern Druids aligned themselves with Christianity.\nIn the early eighteenth-century, early Druidic writers like William Stukeley regarded the Iron Age druids as proto-Christians who were monotheists worshipping the Christian God. In a similar vein, some modern Druids believe that ancient druidic wisdom was preserved through a distinct Celtic Christianity. Over the course of the twentieth century, and particularly since the early 1960s, Druidry increasingly came to be associated with the modern Pagan movement.\n\nDruidic beliefs vary widely, and there is no set dogma or belief system followed by all adherents.\n\nDruidry also draws upon the legends surrounding King Arthur. One of the clearest links between Arthuriana and Druidry is through the Loyal Arthurian Warband, a Druidic group that employs Arthurian symbolism as part of its environmental campaigns.\n\nDruidry has been described as a nature venerating movement.\nDruidry conceives of the natural world as being imbued with spirit, and thus regard it as alive and dynamic.\nBecause they view the natural world as sacred, many Druids are involved in environmentalism, thereby acting to protect areas of the natural landscape that are under threat from development or pollution.\n\nDruids are generally critical of mainstream society, regarding it as being \"governed by consumerism, environmental exploitation and the supremacy of technology.\" In contrast to this, Druids seek to establish a way of living that they regard as being more \"natural\". Through seeking a connection with nature, Druids pursue a sense of \"cosmic belonging\".\n\nBy the end of the 19th century, Druidry was described as a \"monotheistic philosophical tradition\". \nDruidry is now often described as polytheistic, although there is no set pantheon of deities to which all Druids adhere. Emphasis is however placed on the idea that these deities predate Christianity. These deities are usually regarded as being immanent rather than transcendent. Some practitioners express the view that the real existence of these deities is less important to them than the impact that said belief has on their lives.\n\nWith the increase in polytheistic Druidry, and the widespread acceptance of Goddess worship, \"The Druid's Prayer\", which had been originally written in the 18th century by Druid Iolo Morganwg and emphasises the unity of the supreme Deity, had the word \"God\" replaced with \"Goddess\" in common usage.\n\nSome Druids regard it as possible to communicate with various spirits during ritual. Certain Druids in Ireland have for instance adopted belief in the Sí, spirits from Irish folklore, into their Druidic system, interpreting them as elementals. They have adopted the folkloric belief that such spirits are repelled by iron and thus avoid bringing iron to their rituals, so as not to scare spirits away.\n\nAwen is a concept of spirit or divinity in Druidry, which inspires poetry and art, and is believed to be a \"flowing spirit\" given by the Deity, which can be invoked by the Druid. In many Druidic rituals, Awen is invoked by either chanting the word \"Awen\" or \"A-I-O\" three times, in order to shift the consciousness of the participants involved. The word \"Awen\" derives from the Welsh and Cornish terms for \"inspiration\".\n\nA connection with ancestors is important in Druidry. In some recorded examples, Druids regard the \"ancestors\" as an amorphous group, rather than as a set of named individuals. The Druidic concept of ancestry is that of \"ancestors of the land\", rather than the \"ancestors of the blood\" venerated by some Heathen groups; they perceive a spiritual connection, rather than a genetic one, as being important. Emphasising ancestors gives practitioners a sense of an identity which has been passed down from the past over the course of many centuries.\n\nAncestor veneration leads many to object to the archaeological excavation of human remains and their subsequent display in museums. Many have organised campaigns for their reburial. For instance, in 2006, a neo-Druid called Paul Davies requested that the Alexander Keiller Museum in Avebury, Wiltshire rebury their human remains, and that storing and displaying them was \"immoral and disrespectful\". Criticism of this view has come from the archaeological community, with statements like \"no single modern ethnic group or cult should be allowed to appropriate our ancestors for their own agendas. It is for the international scientific community to curate such remains.\"\n\nDruidic groups are usually known as \"groves\". Such a term reflects the movement's association with trees, and references the idea that Iron Age druids performed their rituals within tree groves. Larger Druidic organisations are usually termed \"orders\", and those that lead them are often termed \"chosen chiefs\".\n\nSome British Druid orders divide membership into three grades, referred to as \"bards\", \"ovates\", and then \"Druids\". This three-tier system mirrors the three degrees found in British Traditional Wicca. Other groups eschew any division into bard, ovate, and druid. OBOD primarily educates its members in its form of Druidry through a correspondence course.\n\nEach Druidic grove conducts its rituals and ceremonies in a unique way. Druidic rituals are designed to align their participants with the spirit imbuing nature. According to the anthropologist Thorsten Gieser, Druidic rituals are best seen not as a set of formalised actions but as \"a stance, an attitude, a particular mode of experience and perception which gives rise to a feeling of being-in-the-world, of being part of Nature.\"\nThe practices of modern Druids typically take place outside, in the daylight, in what is described as \"the eye of the sun\", meaning around midday. In some cases, they instead perform their rites indoors, or during the night. Druidic rituals usually reflect on the time of year and the changing of the seasons.\n\nDruidic rituals often involve the participants standing in a circle and begin with a \"calling of the quarters\", in which a participant draws a circle in the air in a deosil direction to hail the north, south, east, and west, marking out the space in which the ceremony will take place. Libations may be poured onto the ground while a chalice of drink is passed around the assembled participants, again in a deosil direction. Food, often in the form of bread or cake, is also passed around the Druids and consumed. This may be followed by a period of meditation among those assembled. A form of earth energy is then visualised, with participants believing that it is sent for a designated healing purpose. This may be designed to help the victims of a particular event, such as a war or an epidemic, or it might be directed to assist individuals known to the group who are ill or requiring emotional support. After the end of the ceremony, the Druids may remain together to take part in a meal, or visit a nearby pub.\n\nThere is no specific dress code for ritual within the Druidic movement; some participants wear ordinary clothes, others wear robes. Some groups favour earth-coloured robes, believing that this links them to the natural world and that it aids them in traveling unnoticed when going about at night. \"Celtish\" language is often employed during ceremonies, as are quotations and material from the \"Carmina Gadelica\". Most use some form of Morganwg's Gorsedd Prayer.\n\nSome Druids also involve themselves in spell-casting, although this is usually regarded as a secondary feature among their practices.\n\nRituals commonly take place at formations in the natural landscape or at prehistoric sites, among them megalithic constructions from the Neolithic and Bronze Age or earthworks from the Iron Age. Druids often believe that, even if the Iron Age druids did not build these monuments, they did use them for their rites. Performing rituals at said sites allows many Druids to feel that they are getting close to their ancestors. Druids regard them as sacred sites in part as recognition that prehistoric societies would have done the same.\nDruids in various parts of Ireland and Britain have reported such sites being home to a \"Spirit of the Place\" residing there.\nMany Druids also believe that such sites are centres of earth energy and lie along ley lines in the landscape. These are ideas that have been adopted from Earth mysteries writers like John Michell.\n\nIn the popular imagination, Druids are closely linked with Stonehenge—a Neolithic and Bronze Age site in Wiltshire, southern England. Although Stonehenge predates the Iron Age and there is no evidence that it was ever used by Iron Age druids, many modern Druids believe that their ancient namesakes did indeed use it for their ceremonies. Druids also use many other prehistoric sites as spaces for their rituals, including stone circles like that at Avebury in Wiltshire. Some Druids have erected their own, modern stone circles in which to perform their ceremonies. \nDruidic practices have also taken place at Early Neolithic chambered long barrows such as Wayland's Smithy in Oxfordshire, and the Coldrum Long Barrow in Kent.\nIn Ireland, Druids perform ceremonies at one of the island's best known prehistoric sites, the Hill of Tara. In 2000, scholar of religion Amy Hale noted that Druidic rituals at such prehistoric sites were \"increasingly more common\". She regarded the stone circle as \"a symbol of an imagined Celtic past\" shared by both Druids and Gorseth Bards. As well as performing group rituals at sites, Druids also visit them alone to meditate, prayer, and provide offerings. Aside from Sabbat rituals, rites of passage can also take place at such sites, such as a Druidic baby-naming ceremony which took place at Kent's Chestnuts Long Barrow.\n\nAttitudes to land and environmental conservation are important to the Druidic world-view. \nIn 2003, Druids performed a ritual at the Hill of Tara to heal the location after road construction took place in the adjacent landscape. Others have carried out rituals at Coldrum Long Barrow to oppose fracking in the landscape. Druids have also involved themselves in tree planting projects.\n\nIn the 1990s and early 2000s, the use of a ritual based on the sweat lodge became increasingly popular among some Neo-druids in Ireland and the U.K. Some Druids regard these sweat lodges as \"initiatory and regenerative opportunities to rededicate oneself to honouring the Earth and the community of life.\" This practice is regarded differently by different individuals. Some practitioners regard it as a \"revival\" of genuine pre-Christian druidic practices, others see it a creative and respectful borrowing from one \"native spirituality\" into another, and a third school of thought regards it as a form of cultural theft. Native Americans who preserve the sweat lodge ceremonies for their communities have protested the appropriation of the ceremony by non-Natives, increasingly so now that people have been injured, and some have died, in fraudulent sweat lodge ceremonies performed by non-Natives.\n\nIn Druidry, a specific ceremony takes place known as an \"Eisteddfod\", which is dedicated to the recitation of poetry and musical performances. Within the Druidic community, practitioners who are particularly skilled in their recitation of poetry or their performance of music are referred to as Bards. Although bardism can also be found in other Pagan traditions such as Eco-Paganism, it is of particular importance within Druidry. Bards perform at \"Eisteddfod\" at various occasions, from formal rituals to pub get-togethers and summer camps and environmental protests. Among the Druidic community, it is often believed that bards should be divinely inspired in producing their work.\n\nStorytelling is important within Druidry, with stories chosen often coming from the vernacular literature of linguistically Celtic countries or from Arthurian legend. Musical performances typically draw from the folk musical traditions of Ireland, Scotland, England, France, and Brittany. \nInstruments used commonly include lap harps, mandolins, whistles, bag pipes, and guitars. Bards utilise archaic words such as \"t'was\", \"thence\", and \"deeds\", while speaking in a grandiose manner of intonation. The general purpose of bardism, according to scholar of religion and bard Andy Letcher, is to create an \"ambience\" of \"a catchall ahistorical past; a Celtic, medieval, Tolkienesque, once-upon-a-time enchanted world\". Instruments commonly used by Druidic Bards include acoustic stringed instruments like the guitar and the clarsach, as well as the bodhran, bagpipe, rattle, flute and whistle. The scholar of religion Graham Harvey believed that these specific instruments were preferred by modern Druids because many of them were Irish in origin, and therefore gave a \"Celtic flavour, seemingly invoking the Iron Age\", the period during which the ancient druids lived.\n\nGroups like the British Druid Order have established their own \"gorseddau\". Unlike the Welsh cultural gorseddau, these Druidic events often allow anyone to perform as a bard if they are inspired to do so.\n\nDruids have participated in other musical genres and with more technological instruments, including the blues and rave music, and one British club, Megatripolis, opened with the performance of a Druidic ritual.\n\nAmong many Druids, there is a system of tree lore, through which different associations are attributed to different species of tree, including particular moods, actions, phases of life, deities and ancestors. Different species of trees are often linked to the ogham alphabet, which is employed in divination by Druids. Rather than ogham, some practitioners favour coelbren—an alphabet likely devised by Iolo Morganwg—for their divinatory practices.\n\nMany Druids engage in a range of healing therapies, with both herbalism and homeopathy being popular within the Druidic community.\n\nDruids often revive older folk customs for use on their practices. The England-based Secular Order of Druids for instance possess a hobby horse based on that used in the 'Obby 'Oss festival of Padstow, Cornwall.\n\nDruids generally observe eight spiritual festivals annually, which are collectively known as the Wheel of the Year. These are the same festivals usually celebrated by Wiccans. In some cases groups attempt to revive folkloric European festivals and their accompanying traditions. In other cases the rites are modern inventions, inspired by \"the spirit of what they believe was the religious practice of pre-Roman Britain.\" For reasons of practicality, such celebrations are not always held on the specific date of the festival itself, but on the nearest weekend, thus maximising the number of participants who can attend.\n\nFour of these are solar festivals, being positioned at the solstices and equinoxes; these are largely inspired by Germanic paganism. The other four are the \"Celtic\" festivals, the crossquarter days inspired by modern interpretations of ancient Celtic polytheism. The idea of the Wheel of the Year was introduced into Druidry by Ross Nichols, who founded the Order of Bards, Ovates and Druids in 1964, and he had gained this idea from his friend Gerald Gardner, who had implemented it in his Bricket Wood coven of Gardnerian Witches in 1958.\n\nThe Druidic movement originated among the Romanticist ideas of the ancient druids that had begun to be developed in the 17th and 18th centuries. While many Early Mediaeval writers, particularly in Ireland, had demonised the ancient druids as barbarians who had practiced human sacrifice and tried to suppress the coming of Christianity, certain Late Mediaeval writers had begun to extol what they believed were the virtues of the druids, and reinvented them as national heroes, particularly in Germany, France and Scotland. It was also during this period that Conrad Celtis had begun to propagate the image of the druids as having been bearded, wise old men wearing white robes, something that would prove highly influential in future centuries.\n\nThe image of the Iron Age druids as national heroes would later begin to emerge in England during the Early Modern period, with the antiquarian and Anglican vicar William Stukeley (1687–1765) proclaiming himself to be a \"druid\" and writing a number of popular books in which he claimed that prehistoric megaliths like Stonehenge and Avebury were temples built by the druids, something now known to be incorrect. Stukeley himself, being a devout but unorthodox Christian, felt that the ancient druids had been followers of a monotheistic faith very similar to Christianity, at one point even stating that ancient druidry was \"so extremely like Christianity, that in effect, it differed from it only in this; they believe in a Messiah who was to come into the world, as we believe in him that is come\".\n\nSoon after the publication and spread of Stukeley's writings, other people also began to self-describe themselves as \"druids\" and form societies: the earliest of these was the Druidic Society, founded on the Welsh island of Anglesey in 1772. Largely revolving around ensuring the continued financial success of business on the island, it attracted many of Anglesey's wealthy inhabitants into it, and donated much of its proceeds to charity, but was disbanded in 1844. A similar Welsh group was the Society of the Druids of Cardigan, founded circa 1779, largely by a group of friends who wished to attend \"literary picnics\" together. The third British group to call itself Druidic was English rather than Welsh, and was known as the Ancient Order of Druids. Founded in 1781 and influenced by Freemasonry, its origins have remained somewhat unknown, but it subsequently spread in popularity from its base in London across much of Britain and even abroad, with new lodges being founded, all of which were under the control of the central Grand Lodge in London. The Order was not religious in structure, and instead acted as somewhat of a social club, particularly for men with a common interest in music. In 1833 it suffered a schism, as a large number of dissenting lodges, unhappy at the management of the Order, formed their own United Ancient Order of Druids, and both groups would go on to grow in popularity throughout the rest of the century.\n\nNone of the earliest modern Druidic groups had been religious in structure; however, this was to change in the late 18th century, primarily because of the work of a Welshman who took the name of Iolo Morganwg (1747–1826). Born as Edward Williams, he would take up the cause of Welsh nationalism, and was deeply opposed to the British monarchy, supporting many of the ideals of the French revolution, which had occurred in 1789. Eventually moving to London, he began perpetuating the claim that he was actually one of the last initiates of a surviving group of druids who were descended from those found in the Iron Age, centred on his home county of Glamorgan. He subsequently organised the performing of Neo-druidic rituals on Primrose Hill with some of his followers, whom he categorised as either Bards or Ovates, with he himself being the only one actually categorised as a Druid. He himself practiced a form of religion he believed the ancient druids had, which involved the worship of a singular monotheistic deity as well as the acceptance of reincarnation.\nIn Wales, Druidry had taken on an explicitly religious formation by the 1840s.\n\nMorganwg's example was taken up by other Welshmen in the 19th century, who continued to promote religious forms of Druidry. The most prominent figure in this was William Price (1800–1893), a physician who held to ideas such as vegetarianism and the political Chartist movement. His promotion of cremation and open practice of it led to his arrest and trial, but he was acquitted, achieving a level of fame throughout Britain. He would declare himself to be a Druid, and would do much to promote the return of what he believed was an ancient religion in his country.\n\nIn 1874, Robert Wentworth Little, a Freemason who achieved notoriety as the first Supreme Magus of the occult Societas Rosicruciana, allegedly founded the Ancient and Archaeological Order of Druids, which, like the Societas Rosicruciana, was an esoteric organisation. Meanwhile, at the start of the 20th century, Druidic groups began holding their ceremonies at the great megalithic monument of Stonehenge in Wiltshire, England: the historian Ronald Hutton would later remark that \"it was a great, and potentially uncomfortable, irony that modern Druids had arrived at Stonehenge just as archaeologists were evicting the ancient Druids from it\" as they realised that the structure dated from the Neolithic and early Bronze Age, millennia before the Iron Age, when the druids first appear in the historical record.\n\nOne member of the Ancient Order of Druids was the English Gerald Gardner, who later established Gardnerian Wicca.\n\nThe most important figure for the rise of Neopagan Druidry in Britain was Ross Nichols. A member of The Druid Order, in 1964 he split off to found the Order of Bards, Ovates and Druids (OBOD). In 1988 Philip Carr-Gomm was asked to lead the Order.\n\nNichols drew upon ideas from the Earth mysteries movement, incorporating many of its ideas about Glastonbury into his interpretation of Druidry.\n\nBetween 1985 and 1988, the Druid Tim Sebastion campaigned for religious access to Stonehenge, forming the Secular Order of Druids (SOD) around him. In the late 1980s, SOD's campaign was joined by another group focused on Stonehenge access, led by a Druid calling himself King Arthur Pendragon; by 1993, his group had formalised as the Loyal Arthurian Warband. In 1988, a Druid order was also established in Glastonbury, Somerset, under the leadership of Rollo Maughfling.\nIn the late 1970s, the former Alexandrian Wiccan high priest Philip Shallcrass established the British Druid Order (BDO) to create a more explicitly Pagan form of Druidry. Fellow Druid Emma Restall Orr became co-leader of the group in the mid-1990s. Feeling the system of Orders too limiting, in 2002 Orr created The Druid Network, which was officially launched in 2003.\n\nThe early 1990s were—according to the historian Ronald Hutton—\"boom years\" for British Druidry. In 1989, the Council of British Druid Orders was established to co-ordinate the activities of different Druid groups at the national level. Further reflecting this spirit of unity, in 1992 a rite took place on London's Primrose Hill in which various Druid orders participated. That year, two new Druidic magazines began publication Shallcrass' \"Druid's Voice\" and Steve Wilson's \"Aisling\". However, arguments between different groups persisted and in 1996, the AOD, OBOD, and BDO withdrew from the Council of British Druid Orders. In the late 1990s, English Heritage relented to pressure and agreed to allow Druidic and greater public access to Stonehenge.\nDuring the 1990s, Pagan Druidic groups were also established in Italy, with British Druids like Carr-Gomm visiting the country to give talks to the Pagan community.\n\nThe earliest American Druid organizations were fraternal orders such as the United Ancient Order of Druids and the American Order of Druids. The former was a branch of a British organization that had split from the Ancient Order of Druids, while the latter was founded in Massachusetts in 1888. Both were forms of fraternal benefit societies rather than religious or neo-pagan groups.\n\nIn 1963, the Reformed Druids of North America (RDNA) was founded by students at Carleton College, Northfield, Minnesota, a liberal arts college that required its members to attend some form of religious services. As a form of humorous protest against this rule, a group of students, who contained Christians, Jews and agnostics within their ranks, decided to create their own, non-serious religious group. Their protest was successful, and the requirement was scrapped in 1964. Nonetheless, the group continued holding services, which were not considered Neopagan by most members, but instead thought of an inter-religious nature. From its beginning, the RDNA revolved around the veneration of the natural world, personified as Mother Earth, holding that religious truth could be found through nature. They had also adopted other elements of Neopaganism into their practices, for instance celebrating the festivals of the Wheel of the Year, which they had borrowed from the Neopagan religion of Wicca.\n\nWhile the RDNA had become a success, with new branches or \"groves\" being founded around the United States, the many Neopagan elements of the RDNA eventually rose to prominence, leading several groves to actively describe themselves as Neopagan. This was opposed by several of the group's founders, who wanted it to retain its inter-religious origins, and certain groves actually emphasized their connection to other religions: there was a group of Zen Druids in Olympia and Hassidic Druids in St. Louis for instance. Among those largely responsible for this transition towards Neopaganism within the organisation were Isaac Bonewits and Robert Larson, who worked in a grove located in Berkeley, California. Believing that the Reformed Druidic movement would have to accept that it was essentially Neopagan in nature, Bonewits decided to found a split-off group known as the New Reformed Druids of North America (NRDNA), which he defined as an \"Eclectic Reconstructionist Neo-Pagan Priestcraft, based primarily upon Gaulish and Celtic sources\".\n\nBonewits still felt that many in the RDNA were hostile towards him, believing that he had infiltrated their group, and so in 1985 he founded a new, explicitly Neopagan Druidic group, Ár nDraíocht Féin (Our Own Druidism; a.k.a. ADF) and began publishing a journal, \"The Druid's Progress\". Arguing that it should draw from pan-European sources, rather than just those that were considered \"Celtic\", he placed an emphasis on academic and scholarly accuracy, taking a stand against what he perceived as the prevalent pseudo-historical ideas of many Neopagans and Druids.\nIn 1986, several members of Ár nDraíocht Féin openly criticized Bonewits for his pan-European approach, wishing modern Druidism to be inspired purely by Celtic sources, and so they splintered off to form a group called the Henge of Keltria.\n\nThe Ancient Order of Druids in America (AODA), currently headed by Pagan author and druid John Michael Greer, was founded as the Ancient Order of Masonic Druids in America in 1912 in Boston, Mass. The founder, James Manchester had obtained a charter from the Ancient Order of Masonic Druids of England (AOMD). AOMD started in 1874 as the Ancient Archaeological Order of Druids (AAOD) by Robert Wentworth Little, the founder of Societas Rosicruciana in Anglia (SRIA). SRIA is the immediate predecessor organization of the Hermetic Order of the Golden Dawn (HOGD). In 1972, the Ancient Order of Masonic Druids in America changed its name to the current name the Ancient Order of Druids in America and started initiating women, which it had not done so previously because of its masonic origin. It was also at this time that AOMD denied ever having recognized AOMDA and wasn't interested in doing so at that time.\n\nAt the start of the twenty-first century, Druids could be found in most European countries and countries with large European-descended communities. Druids do not seek to convert everyone else to Druidry.\n\nAccording to the American Religious Identification Survey (ARIS), there are approximately 30,000 Druids in the United States. In August 2007, the AFD claimed 1177 members, spread over 61 groves. Scholar of religion Michael T. Cooper found that, among 57 ADF members, 37% had previously been Christian, and that a common theme among participants in the group was disillusionment with Christianity, a religion that they regard as an oppressive force which has subordinated women and damaged the environment.\n\nThe Pagan Census project led by Helen A. Berger, Evan A. Leach, and Leigh S. Shaffer gained responses from Druids in the U.S. Of these respondents, 49.7% were male and 48.2% female (2% did not answer), which reflected a greater proportion of men than the American Pagan community as a whole, which had a female majority. 73.6% of Druid respondents described themselves as heterosexual, with 16.2% as bisexual, 3% as gay men and 1.5% as lesbian. This reflected a greater proportion of heterosexuals than in the broader American Pagan community. The median income of these Druids was between $20,000 and $30,000, which was lower than the average for Pagans. They project revealed that 83.8% of Druid respondents were registered to vote, which was lower than the proportion across the broader Pagan community (87.8%). Among these Druids, 35.5% were registered independents, 31% Democrats, 5.1% Libertarians, 4.6% Republicans, and 3.6% Greens.\n\nThe historian Ronald Hutton estimated that, in 1996, there were approximately 6000 members of Druid groups in England, two-thirds of whom were OBOD members. The 2001 UK Census, 30,569 individuals described themselves as \"Druids\" and 508 as \"Celtic Druids\".\nIn September 2010, the Charity Commission for England and Wales agreed to register The Druid Network as a charity, effectively giving it official recognition as a religion.\nA study of 75 members of the UK-based Order of Bards, Ovates and Druids found \"a clear preference for introversion (61%) over extraversion (39%), a clear preference for intuition (64%) over sensing (36%), a clear preference for feeling (56%) over thinking (44%), and a clear preference for judging (68%) over perceiving (32%).\"\n\n"}
{"id": "574759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=574759", "title": "Feed forward (control)", "text": "Feed forward (control)\n\nFeed-forward, sometimes written feedforward, is a term describing an element or pathway within a control system that passes a controlling signal from a source in its external environment to a load elsewhere in its external environment. This is often a command signal from an external operator.\n\nA control system which has only feed-forward behavior responds to its control signal in a pre-defined way without responding to how the load reacts; it is in contrast with a system that also has feedback, which adjusts the output to take account of how it affects the load, and how the load itself may vary unpredictably; the load is considered to belong to the external environment of the system.\n\nIn a feed-forward system, the control variable adjustment is not error-based. Instead it is based on knowledge about the process in the form of a mathematical model of the process and knowledge about or measurements of the process disturbances.\n\nSome prerequisites are needed for control scheme to be reliable by pure feed-forward without feedback: the external command or controlling signal must be available, and the effect of the output of the system on the load should be known (that usually means that the load must be predictably unchanging with time). Sometimes pure feed-forward control without feedback is called 'ballistic', because once a control signal has been sent, it cannot be further adjusted; any corrective adjustment must be by way of a new control signal. In contrast, 'cruise control' adjusts the output in response to the load that it encounters, by a feedback mechanism.\n\nThese systems could relate to control theory, physiology, or computing.\n\nWith feed-forward or Feedforward control, the disturbances are measured and accounted for before they have time to affect the system. In the house example, a feed-forward system may measure the fact that the door is opened and automatically turn on the heater before the house can get too cold. The difficulty with feed-forward control is that the effects of the disturbances on the system must be accurately predicted, and there must not be any unmeasured disturbances. For instance, if a window was opened that was not being measured, the feed-forward-controlled thermostat might let the house cool down.\n\nThe term has specific meaning within the field of CPU-based automatic control. The discipline of “feedforward control” as it relates to modern, CPU based automatic controls is widely discussed, but is seldom practiced due to the difficulty and expense of developing or providing for the mathematical model required to facilitate this type of control. Open-loop control and feedback control, often based on canned PID control algorithms, are much more widely used.\n\nThere are three types of control systems: open loop, feed-forward, and feedback. \nAn example of a pure open loop control system is manual non-power-assisted steering of a motor car; the steering system does not have access to an auxiliary power source and does not respond to varying resistance to turning of the direction wheels; the driver must make that response without help from the steering system. In comparison, power steering has access to a controlled auxiliary power source, which depends on the engine speed. When the steering wheel is turned, a valve is opened which allows fluid under pressure to turn the driving wheels. A sensor monitors that pressure so that the valve only opens enough to cause the correct pressure to reach the wheel turning mechanism. This is feed-forward control where the output of the system, the change in direction of travel of the vehicle, plays no part in the system. See Model predictive control.\n\nIf you include the driver in the system, then he does provide a feedback path by observing the direction of travel and compensating for errors by turning the steering wheel. In that case you have a feedback system, and the block labeled \"System\" in Figure(c) is a feed-forward system.\n\nIn other words, systems of different types can be nested, and the overall system regarded as a black-box.\n\nFeedforward control is distinctly different from open loop control and teleoperator systems. Feedforward control requires a mathematical model of the plant (process and/or machine being controlled) and the plant's relationship to any inputs or feedback the system might receive. Neither open loop control nor teleoperator systems require the sophistication of a mathematical model of the physical system or plant being controlled. Control based on operator input without integral processing and interpretation through a mathematical model of the system is a teleoperator system and is not considered feedforward control.\n\nHistorically, the use of the term “feedforward” is found in works by D. M. MacKay as early as 1956. While MacKay’s work is in the field of biological control theory, he speaks only of feedforward systems. MacKay does not mention “Feedforward Control” or allude to the discipline of “Feedforward Controls.” MacKay and other early writers who use the term “feedforward” are generally writing about theories of how human or animal brains work.\n\nThe discipline of “feedforward controls” was largely developed by professors and graduate students at Georgia Tech, MIT, Stanford and Carnegie Mellon. Feedforward is not typically hyphenated in scholarly publications. Meckl and Seering of MIT and Book and Dickerson of Georgia Tech began the development of the concepts of Feedforward Control in the mid 1970s. The discipline of Feedforward Controls was well defined in many scholarly papers, articles and books by the late 1980s.\n\nThe benefits of feedforward control are significant and can often justify the extra cost, time and effort required to implement the technology. Control accuracy can often be improved by as much as an order of magnitude if the mathematical model is of sufficient quality and implementation of the feedforward control law is well thought out. Energy consumption by the feedforward control system and its driver is typically substantially lower than with other controls. Stability is enhanced such that the controlled device can be built of lower cost, lighter weight, springier materials while still being highly accurate and able to operate at high speeds. Other benefits of feedforward control include reduced wear and tear on equipment, lower maintenance costs, higher reliability and a substantial reduction in hysteresis. Feedforward control is often combined with feedback control to optimize performance.\n\nThe mathematical model of the plant (machine, process or organism) used by the feedforward control system may be created and input by a control engineer or it may be learned by the control system. Control systems capable of learning and/or adapting their mathematical model have become more practical as microprocessor speeds have increased. The discipline of modern feedforward control was itself made possible by the invention of microprocessors.\n\nFeedforward control requires integration of the mathematical model into the control algorithm such that it is used to determine the control actions based on what is known about the state of the system being controlled. In the case of control for a lightweight, flexible robotic arm, this could be as simple as compensating between when the robot arm is carrying a payload and when it is not. The target joint angles are adjusted to place the payload in the desired position based on knowing the deflections in the arm from the mathematical model’s interpretation of the disturbance caused by the payload. Systems that plan actions and then pass the plan to a different system for execution do not satisfy the above definition of feedforward control. Unless the system includes a means to detect a disturbance or receive an input and process that input through the mathematical model to determine the required modification to the control action, it is not true feedforward control.\n\nIn systems theory, an open system is a feed forward system that does not have any feedback loop to control its output. In contrast, a closed system uses on a feedback loop to control the operation of the system. In an open system, the output of the system is not fed back into the input to the system for control or operation.\n\nIn physiology, feed-forward control is exemplified by the normal anticipatory regulation of heartbeat in advance of actual physical exertion. Feed-forward control can be likened to learned anticipatory responses to known cues. Feedback regulation of the heartbeat provides further adaptiveness to the running eventualities of physical exertion.\n\nFeedforward systems are also found in biological control by human and animal brains.\n\nEven in the case of biological feedforward systems, such as in the human brain, knowledge or a mental model of the plant (body) can be considered to be mathematical as the model is characterized by limits, rhythms, mechanics and patterns.\n\nA pure feed-forward system is different from a homeostatic control system, which has the function of keeping the body's internal environment 'steady' or in a 'prolonged steady state of readiness.' A homeostatic control system relies mainly on feedback (especially negative), in addition to the feedforward elements of the system.\n\nThe cross regulation of genes can be represented by a graph, where genes are the nodes and one node is linked to another if the former is a transcription factor for the latter. A motif which predominantly appears in all known networks (E. coli, Yeast...) is A activates B, A and B activate C. This motif has been shown to be a feed forward system, detecting non-temporary change of environment. This feed forward control theme is commonly observed in hematopoietic cell lineage development, where irreversible commitments are made.\n\nIn computing, feed-forward normally refers to a perceptron network in which the outputs from all neurons go to following but not preceding layers, so there are no feedback loops. The connections are set up during a training phase, which in effect is when the system is a feedback system.\n\nIn the early 1970s, intercity coaxial transmission systems, including L-carrier, used feed-forward amplifiers to diminish linear distortion. This more complex method allowed wider bandwidth than earlier feedback systems. Optical fiber, however, made such systems obsolete before many were built.\n\nFeedforward control is a discipline within the field of automatic controls used in automation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11298", "title": "Feudalism", "text": "Feudalism\n\nFeudalism was a combination of legal and military customs in medieval Europe that flourished between the 9th and 15th centuries. Broadly defined, it was a way of structuring society around relationships derived from the holding of land in exchange for service or labour.\nAlthough derived from the Latin word \"feodum\" or \"feudum\" (fief), then in use, the term \"feudalism\" and the system it describes were not conceived of as a formal political system by the people living in the Middle Ages. In its classic definition, by François-Louis Ganshof (1944), \"feudalism\" describes a set of reciprocal legal and military obligations among the warrior nobility revolving around the three key concepts of lords, vassals and fiefs.\n\nA broader definition of feudalism, as described by Marc Bloch (1939), includes not only the obligations of the warrior nobility but also those of all three estates of the realm: the nobility, the clergy, and the peasantry bound by manorialism; this is sometimes referred to as a \"feudal society\". Since the publication of Elizabeth A. R. Brown's \"The Tyranny of a Construct\" (1974) and Susan Reynolds's \"Fiefs and Vassals\" (1994), there has been ongoing inconclusive discussion among medieval historians as to whether feudalism is a useful construct for understanding medieval society.\n\nThere is no commonly accepted modern definition of feudalism, at least among scholars. The adjective \"feudal\" was coined in the 17th century, and the noun \"feudalism\", often used in a political and propaganda context, was not coined until the 19th century, from the French \"féodalité\" (\"feudality\"), itself an 18th-century creation.\n\nIn a classic definition by François-Louis Ganshof (1944), \"feudalism\" describes a set of reciprocal legal and military obligations among the warrior nobility, revolving around the three key concepts of lords, vassals and fiefs, though Ganshof himself noted that his treatment related only to the \"narrow, technical, legal sense of the word\".\n\nA broader definition, as described in Marc Bloch's \"Feudal Society\" (1939), includes not only the obligations of the warrior nobility but those of all three estates of the realm: the nobility, the clergy, and those living by their labour, most directly the peasantry bound by manorialism; this order is often referred to as \"feudal society\", echoing Bloch's usage.\n\nSince the publication of Elizabeth A. R. Brown's \"The Tyranny of a Construct\" (1974) and Susan Reynolds's \"Fiefs and Vassals\" (1994), there has been ongoing inconclusive discussion among medieval historians as to whether feudalism is a useful construct for understanding medieval society.\n\nOutside a European context, the concept of feudalism is often used only by analogy (called \"semi-feudal\"), most often in discussions of feudal Japan under the \"shōguns\", and sometimes medieval and Gondarine Ethiopia. However, some have taken the feudalism analogy further, seeing feudalism (or traces of it) in places as diverse as Spring and Autumn period in China, ancient Egypt, the Parthian empire, the Indian subcontinent and the Antebellum and Jim Crow American South.\n\nThe term \"feudalism\" has also been applied—often inappropriately or pejoratively—to non-Western societies where institutions and attitudes similar to those of medieval Europe are perceived to prevail. Some historians and political theorists believe that the term \"feudalism\" has been deprived of specific meaning by the many ways it has been used, leading them to reject it as a useful concept for understanding society.\n\nThe term \"féodal\" was used in 17th-century French legal treatises (1614) and translated into English legal treatises as an adjective, such as \"feodal government\".\n\nIn the 18th century, Adam Smith, seeking to describe economic systems, effectively coined the forms \"feudal government\" and \"feudal system\" in his book \"Wealth of Nations\" (1776). In the 19th century the adjective \"feudal\" evolved into a noun: \"feudalism\". The term \"feudalism\" is recent, first appearing in French in 1823, Italian in 1827, English in 1839, and in German in the second half of the 19th century.\n\nThe term \"feudal\" or \"feodal\" is derived from the medieval Latin word \"feodum\". The etymology of \"feodum\" is complex with multiple theories, some suggesting a Germanic origin (the most widely held view) and others suggesting an Arabic origin. Initially in medieval Latin European documents, a land grant in exchange for service was called a \"beneficium\" (Latin). Later, the term \"feudum\", or \"feodum\", began to replace \"beneficium\" in the documents. The first attested instance of this is from 984, although more primitive forms were seen up to one-hundred years earlier. The origin of the \"feudum\" and why it replaced \"beneficium\" has not been well established, but there are multiple theories, described below.\n\nThe most widely held theory was proposed by Johan Hendrik Caspar Kern in 1870, being supported by, amongst others, William Stubbs and Marc Bloch. Kern derived the word from a putative Frankish term \"*fehu-ôd\", in which \"*fehu\" means \"cattle\" and \"-ôd\" means \"goods\", implying \"a moveable object of value.\" Bloch explains that by the beginning of the 10th century it was common to value land in monetary terms but to pay for it with moveable objects of equivalent value, such as arms, clothing, horses or food. This was known as \"feos\", a term that took on the general meaning of paying for something in lieu of money. This meaning was then applied to land itself, in which land was used to pay for fealty, such as to a vassal. Thus the old word \"feos\" meaning movable property changed little by little to \"feus\" meaning the exact opposite: landed property.\n\nAnother theory was put forward by Archibald R. Lewis. Lewis said the origin of 'fief' is not \"feudum\" (or \"feodum\"), but rather \"foderum\", the earliest attested use being in Astronomus's \"Vita Hludovici\" (840). In that text is a passage about Louis the Pious that says \"annona militaris quas vulgo foderum vocant\", which can be translated as \"Louis forbade that military provender (which they popularly call \"fodder\") be furnished..\"\n\nAnother theory by Alauddin Samarrai suggests an Arabic origin, from \"fuyū\" (the plural of \"fay\", which literally means \"the returned\", and was used especially for 'land that has been conquered from enemies that did not fight'). Samarrai's theory is that early forms of 'fief' include \"feo\", \"feu\", \"feuz\", \"feuum\" and others, the plurality of forms strongly suggesting origins from a loanword. The first use of these terms is in Languedoc, one of the least Germanic areas of Europe and bordering Muslim Spain. Further, the earliest use of \"feuum\" (as a replacement for \"beneficium\") can be dated to 899, the same year a Muslim base at Fraxinetum (La Garde-Freinet) in Provence was established. It is possible, Samarrai says, that French scribes, writing in Latin, attempted to transliterate the Arabic word \"fuyū\" (the plural of \"fay\"), which was being used by the Muslim invaders and occupiers at the time, resulting in a plurality of forms – \"feo, feu, feuz, feuum\" and others – from which eventually \"feudum\" derived. Samarrai, however, also advises to handle this theory with care, as Medieval and Early Modern Muslim scribes often used etymologically \"fanciful roots\" in order to claim the most outlandish things to be of Arabian or Muslim origin.\n\nFeudalism, in its various forms, usually emerged as a result of the decentralization of an empire: especially in the Carolingian empires, which lacked the bureaucratic infrastructure necessary to support cavalry without the ability to allocate land to these mounted troops. Mounted soldiers began to secure a system of hereditary rule over their allocated land and their power over the territory came to encompass the social, political, judicial, and economic spheres.\n\nThese acquired powers significantly diminished unitary power in these empires. Only when the infrastructure existed to maintain unitary power—as with the European monarchies—did feudalism begin to yield to this new power structure and eventually disappear.\n\nThe classic François-Louis Ganshof version of feudalism describes a set of reciprocal legal and military obligations among the warrior nobility, revolving around the three key concepts of lords, vassals and fiefs. A lord was in broad terms a noble who held land, a vassal was a person who was granted possession of the land by the lord, and the land was known as a fief. In exchange for the use of the fief and the protection of the lord, the vassal would provide some sort of service to the lord. There were many varieties of feudal land tenure, consisting of military and non-military service. The obligations and corresponding rights between lord and vassal concerning the fief form the basis of the feudal relationship.\n\nBefore a lord could grant land (a fief) to someone, he had to make that person a vassal. This was done at a formal and symbolic ceremony called a commendation ceremony, which was composed of the two-part act of homage and oath of fealty. During homage, the lord and vassal entered into a contract in which the vassal promised to fight for the lord at his command, whilst the lord agreed to protect the vassal from external forces. \"Fealty\" comes from the Latin \"fidelitas\" and denotes the fidelity owed by a vassal to his feudal lord. \"Fealty\" also refers to an oath that more explicitly reinforces the commitments of the vassal made during homage. Such an oath follows homage.\n\nOnce the commendation ceremony was complete, the lord and vassal were in a feudal relationship with agreed obligations to one another. The vassal's principal obligation to the lord was to \"aid\", or military service. Using whatever equipment the vassal could obtain by virtue of the revenues from the fief, the vassal was responsible to answer calls to military service on behalf of the lord. This security of military help was the primary reason the lord entered into the feudal relationship. In addition, the vassal could have other obligations to his lord, such as attendance at his court, whether manorial, baronial, both termed court baron, or at the king's court.\nIt could also involve the vassal providing \"counsel\", so that if the lord faced a major decision he would summon all his vassals and hold a council. At the level of the manor this might be a fairly mundane matter of agricultural policy, but also included sentencing by the lord for criminal offences, including capital punishment in some cases. Concerning the king's feudal court, such deliberation could include the question of declaring war. These are examples; depending on the period of time and location in Europe, feudal customs and practices varied; see examples of feudalism.\n\nIn its origin, the feudal grant of land had been seen in terms of a personal bond between lord and vassal, but with time and the transformation of fiefs into hereditary holdings, the nature of the system came to be seen as a form of \"politics of land\" (an expression used by the historian Marc Bloch). The 11th century in France saw what has been called by historians a \"feudal revolution\" or \"mutation\" and a \"fragmentation of powers\" (Bloch) that was unlike the development of feudalism in England or Italy or Germany in the same period or later: Counties and duchies began to break down into smaller holdings as castellans and lesser seigneurs took control of local lands, and (as comital families had done before them) lesser lords usurped/privatized a wide range of prerogatives and rights of the state, most importantly the highly profitable rights of justice, but also travel dues, market dues, fees for using woodlands, obligations to use the lord's mill, etc. (what Georges Duby called collectively the \"seigneurie banale\"). Power in this period became more personal.\n\nThis \"fragmentation of powers\" was not, however, systematic throughout France, and in certain counties (such as Flanders, Normandy, Anjou, Toulouse), counts were able to maintain control of their lands into the 12th century or later. Thus, in some regions (like Normandy and Flanders), the vassal/feudal system was an effective tool for ducal and comital control, linking vassals to their lords; but in other regions, the system led to significant confusion, all the more so as vassals could and frequently did pledge themselves to two or more lords. In response to this, the idea of a \"liege lord\" was developed (where the obligations to one lord are regarded as superior) in the 12th century.\n\nFeudalism effectively ended by about 1500. This was partly since the military shifted from armies consisting of the nobility to professional fighters thus reducing the nobility's claim on power, but also because the Black Death reduced the nobility's hold over the lower classes. Vestiges of the Feudal system hung on in France until the French Revolution, and the system lingered on in parts of Central and Eastern Europe as late as the 1850s. Russia finally abolished serfdom in 1861.\n\nEven when the original feudal relationships had disappeared, there were many institutional remnants of feudalism left in place. Historian Georges Lefebvre explains how at an early stage of the French Revolution, on just one night of August 4, 1789, France abolished the long-lasting remnants of the feudal order. It announced, \"The National Assembly abolishes the feudal system entirely.\" Lefebvre explains:\n\nOriginally the peasants were supposed to pay for the release of seigneurial dues; these dues affected more than a fourth of the farmland in France and provided most of the income of the large landowners. The majority refused to pay and in 1793 the obligation was cancelled. Thus the peasants got their land free, and also no longer paid the tithe to the church.\n\nThe phrase \"feudal society\" as defined by Marc Bloch offers a wider definition than Ganshof's and includes within the feudal structure not only the warrior aristocracy bound by vassalage, but also the peasantry bound by manorialism, and the estates of the Church. Thus the feudal order embraces society from top to bottom, though the \"powerful and well-differentiated social group of the urban classes\" came to occupy a distinct position to some extent outside the classical feudal hierarchy.\n\nThe idea of \"feudalism\" was unknown and the system it describes was not conceived of as a formal political system by the people living in the Medieval Period. This section describes the history of the idea of feudalism, how the concept originated among scholars and thinkers, how it changed over time, and modern debates about its use.\n\nThe concept of a feudal state or period, in the sense of either a regime or a period dominated by lords who possess financial or social power and prestige, became widely held in the middle of the 18th century, as a result of works such as Montesquieu's \"De L'Esprit des Lois\" (1748; published in English as \"The Spirit of the Laws\"), and Henri de Boulainvilliers’s \"Histoire des anciens Parlements de France\" (1737; published in English as \"An Historical Account of the Ancient Parliaments of France or States-General of the Kingdom\", 1739). In the 18th century, writers of the Enlightenment wrote about feudalism to denigrate the antiquated system of the \"Ancien Régime\", or French monarchy. This was the Age of Enlightenment when writers valued reason and the Middle Ages were viewed as the \"Dark Ages\". Enlightenment authors generally mocked and ridiculed anything from the \"Dark Ages\" including feudalism, projecting its negative characteristics on the current French monarchy as a means of political gain. For them \"feudalism\" meant seigneurial privileges and prerogatives. When the French Constituent Assembly abolished the \"feudal regime\" in August 1789 this is what was meant.\n\nAdam Smith used the term \"feudal system\" to describe a social and economic system defined by inherited social ranks, each of which possessed inherent social and economic privileges and obligations. In such a system wealth derived from agriculture, which was arranged not according to market forces but on the basis of customary labour services owed by serfs to landowning nobles.\n\nKarl Marx also used the term in the 19th century in his analysis of society's economic and political development, describing feudalism (or more usually feudal society or the feudal mode of production) as the order coming before capitalism. For Marx, what defined feudalism was the power of the ruling class (the aristocracy) in their control of arable land, leading to a class society based upon the exploitation of the peasants who farm these lands, typically under serfdom and principally by means of labour, produce and money rents. Marx thus defined feudalism primarily by its economic characteristics.\n\nHe also took it as a paradigm for understanding the power-relationships between capitalists and wage-labourers in his own time: ‘in pre-capitalist systems it was obvious that most people did not control their own destiny — under feudalism, for instance, serfs had to work for their lords. Capitalism seems different because people are in theory free to work for themselves or for others as they choose. Yet most workers have as little control over their lives as feudal serfs’. Some later Marxist theorists (e.g. Eric Wolf) have applied this label to include non-European societies, grouping feudalism together with Imperial Chinese and pre-Columbian Incan societies as 'tributary'.\n\nIn the late 19th and early 20th centuries, John Horace Round and Frederic William Maitland, both historians of medieval Britain, arrived at different conclusions as to the character of English society before the Norman Conquest in 1066. Round argued that the Normans had brought feudalism with them to England, while Maitland contended that its fundamentals were already in place in Britain before 1066. The debate continues today, but a consensus viewpoint is that England before the Conquest had commendation (which embodied some of the personal elements in feudalism) while William the Conqueror introduced a modified and stricter northern French feudalism to England incorporating (1086) oaths of loyalty to the king by all who held by feudal tenure, even the vassals of his principal vassals (Holding by feudal tenure meant that vassals must provide the quota of knights required by the king or a money payment in substitution).\n\nIn the 20th century, two outstanding historians offered still more widely differing perspectives. The French historian Marc Bloch, arguably the most influential 20th-century medieval historian., approached feudalism not so much from a legal and military point of view but from a sociological one, presenting in \"Feudal Society\" (1939; English 1961) a feudal order not limited solely to the nobility. It is his radical notion that peasants were part of the feudal relationship that sets Bloch apart from his peers: while the vassal performed military service in exchange for the fief, the peasant performed physical labour in return for protection – both are a form of feudal relationship. According to Bloch, other elements of society can be seen in feudal terms; all the aspects of life were centered on \"lordship\", and so we can speak usefully of a feudal church structure, a feudal courtly (and anti-courtly) literature, and a feudal economy.\n\nIn contradistinction to Bloch, the Belgian historian François-Louis Ganshof defined feudalism from a narrow legal and military perspective, arguing that feudal relationships existed only within the medieval nobility itself. Ganshof articulated this concept in \"Qu'est-ce que la féodalité?\" (\"What is feudalism?\", 1944; translated in English as \"Feudalism\"). His classic definition of feudalism is widely accepted today among medieval scholars, though questioned both by those who view the concept in wider terms and by those who find insufficient uniformity in noble exchanges to support such a model.\n\nAlthough he was never formally a student in the circle of scholars around Marc Bloch and Lucien Febvre that came to be known as the Annales School, Georges Duby was an exponent of the \"Annaliste\" tradition. In a published version of his 1952 doctoral thesis entitled \"La société aux XIe et XIIe siècles dans la région mâconnaise\" (\"Society in the 11th and 12th centuries in the Mâconnais region\"), and working from the extensive documentary sources surviving from the Burgundian monastery of Cluny, as well as the dioceses of Mâcon and Dijon, Duby excavated the complex social and economic relationships among the individuals and institutions of the Mâconnais region and charted a profound shift in the social structures of medieval society around the year 1000. He argued that in early 11th century, governing institutions—particularly comital courts established under the Carolingian monarchy—that had represented public justice and order in Burgundy during the 9th and 10th centuries receded and gave way to a new feudal order wherein independent aristocratic knights wielded power over peasant communities through strong-arm tactics and threats of violence.\n\nIn 1974, U.S. historian Elizabeth A. R. Brown rejected the label \"feudalism\" as an anachronism that imparts a false sense of uniformity to the concept. Having noted the current use of many, often contradictory, definitions of \"feudalism\", she argued that the word is only a construct with no basis in medieval reality, an invention of modern historians read back \"tyrannically\" into the historical record. Supporters of Brown have suggested that the term should be expunged from history textbooks and lectures on medieval history entirely. In \"Fiefs and Vassals: The Medieval Evidence Reinterpreted\" (1994), Susan Reynolds expanded upon Brown's original thesis. Although some contemporaries questioned Reynolds's methodology, other historians have supported it and her argument. Reynolds argues:\n\nThe term \"feudal\" has also been applied to non-Western societies in which institutions and attitudes similar to those of medieval Europe are perceived to have prevailed (See Examples of feudalism). Japan has been extensively studied in this regard. Friday notes that in the 21st century historians of Japan rarely invoke feudalism; instead of looking at similarities, specialists attempting comparative analysis concentrate on fundamental differences. Ultimately, critics say, the many ways the term \"feudalism\" has been used have deprived it of specific meaning, leading some historians and political theorists to reject it as a useful concept for understanding society.\n\nRichard Abels notes that \"Western Civilization and World Civilization textbooks now shy away from the term 'feudalism'.\"\n\nMilitary:\n\nNon-European:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42570078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42570078", "title": "Frank Hand", "text": "Frank Hand\n\nDetective Garda Frank Hand was killed in the line of duty by the Provisional Irish Republican Army on 10 August 1984.\n\nBorn in 1958 of a family of seven from County Roscommon, Hand joined the Garda Síochána in 1977, becoming a detective in 1981. He worked in Donnybrook and Irishtown in Dublin, subsequently worked with the Drug Squad. Early in 1984 he was assigned to the Central Detective Unit at Harcourt Square. In July 1984 he married Ban Gharda Breda Hogan, returning from their honeymoon in Venice at the start of August. \n\nOn 10 August 1984 he and Detective Garda Michael Dowd were escorting a cash delivery to a post office in County Meath. Hand was armed with a Smith & Wesson .38 Special, Dowd with an Uzi. \n\nAt Drumree Post Office they were attacked by the Provisional Irish Republican Army, who opened fire on the Gardaí. Both were injured, Detective Hand subsequently dying of his wounds. He was one of some sixteen members of an Garda Síochána killed by Irish republicans during The Troubles, and one of thirty-five gardas killed while on duty, many by the IRA.\n\nPatrick McPhilips, Thomas Eccles and Brian McShane were convicted and sentenced to death, which was commuted to 40 years imprisonment.\n\nIn 1998, his brother criticised the Irish government for not consulting his and other families about the release of the killers of his brother, pointing out that he had only found out about the potential releases by accident: \n\nI would accept that there has to be compromise and obviously Northern Ireland has been a very difficult problem. However, in my view the Republic of Ireland was a separate sovereign state; at the time Frank was shot the Republic of Ireland was not at war and I find it very hard to accept that Frank's killers, if you like, should be part of the agreement at all. It is a small comfort, but it is a comfort to know that people who were convicted were doing time ... that at least Frank's life and his work for the State had not been in vain.\n\nWe gradually have resigned ourselves to the fact that we are a pebble on the beach, so to speak. There are bigger political agendas at work and we feel that we have no way of influencing these. We feel that the more we push, the more grief and hardship we're bringing on our individual family members and accordingly, I suppose, we have withdrawn, and we'd like to retain our dignity and not get involved in unseemly squabbles. ... one of our biggest gripes was the total lack of consultation and the minister and his officials did give us a firm commitment that there would be consultation and advice from here on out. However, that has not been the case.\n\n"}
{"id": "14220377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14220377", "title": "Freddie Sweetan", "text": "Freddie Sweetan\n\nFreddie Prosser (July 28, 1938 - July 26, 1974) was a Canadian professional wrestler, better known by his ring name, Freddie Sweetan. He competed in certain North American regional promotions including the National Wrestling Alliance as well as Grand Prix Wrestling, Maple Leaf Wrestling and Stampede Wrestling during the 1960s and 1970s, most notably teaming with Paul Peller as the masked tag team The Butchers.\n\nBorn in Shenstone, a small village in Albert County, New Brunswick, Prosser met 7-year veteran Paul Peller who persuaded him to enter professional wrestling. Training under Emile Dupree in Shediac, he eventually made his debut in 1968 teaming with Peller in Stu Hart's Stampede Wrestling as The Butchers. During their time in the promotion, they proved a popular tag team headlining sold out events in Calgary and Edmonton four weeks straight, which included matches against football player Bob Luce and Emile Dupre.\n\nThe following year, he and Peller joined Dupre, Leo Burke and others to tour the Maritimes with Grand Prix Wrestling during the summer before returning to Calgary by the end of the year. Wrestling under the name Freddie Sweetan, Prosser teamed with Stampede Wrestling veteran \"Bruiser\" Bob Sweetan and eventually won the Stampede Wrestling Tag Team Championship before losing the titles to Bud & Ray Osborne in Calgary, Alberta on April 18, 1969. He and Peller would later win the titles the following year.\n\nIn part to an agreement with Sweetan and Leo Burke, Prosser and Sweetan( being the same person) began wrestling in the Kansas City-area as Killer Kox and K.O. Kox with Bob Geigel's NWA Central States. Feuding with Bob Geigel & The Stomper over the NWA Central States North American Tag Team titles, he later faced Geigel in a singles match the following year on November 5, 1970.\n\nWhile in the United States, he would also team with fellow Canadians The Beast in the Amarillo area and Michel \"Le Justice\" Dubois in the Mid-Atlantic region who together faced Terry & Bobby Kay, George & Sandy Scott, Big Boy Brown & Klondike Bill, Les Thatcher & Nelson Royal and, most notably The Royal Kangaroos whom they had a five-week feud with in 1973. During their time in the Carolinas, they would also face J.J. Dillon in Greensboro, North Carolina in 1972.\n\nReturning to the Maritimes during the summer months, he also had a successful run with Eric Pomeroy feuding with The Beast, who enlisted Rudy Kay and Leo Burke, fighting over the ESA International Tag Team Championship throughout the early 1970s. He and The Beast would also engage in several single matches as well. He and Pomeroy would win the ESA International Tag Team titles three times before losing the titles to The Beast & Rudy Kay in Halifax, Nova Scotia on October 12, 1971. He would later team with a number of tag team partners including Kurt Von Steiger, Mr. X and J.J. Dillon defeating The Beast & Bobby Kay in September 1973.\n\nLosing single matches to Jacques Rougeau and Johnny Valentine at the Maple Leaf Gardens in February 1974, the titles were later vacated when Dillon did not return to the promotion the following summer. However, he and Michel Dubois would reunite to regain the titles defeating The Beast & Bobby Kay in July 1974.\n\nThat same year, while visiting with Prosser and Pomeroy in their motor home, Prosser's father told Pomeroy that he was going to return to his house and commit suicide. After he had left, Pomeroy and Prosser returned to his house to find several Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP) officers were already at the scene where they informed the two Prosser's father had killed himself with a shotgun from the house.\n\nAfter wrestling his last match in Saint John, New Brunswick, he held a party to celebrate his 36th birthday at his summer cabin at MacFarlane Bridge, 15 miles southeast of Moncton. Although it is unknown what happened during the hours after his friends had left the party, sometime during the night a fire broke out in the cabin resulting in Prosser's death. An investigation by the RCMP concluded that Prosser, whose body had been found near the front door, had been trapped in the cabin during the fire and died of smoke inhalation. The official cause of the fire was stated to have been accidental, and was most likely caused by Prosser having fallen asleep with a lit cigar in his hand.\n\nHowever, wrestlers such as Emile Dupree have stated they believe the fire may have been started by a charcoal barbecue. Having been known to remain hot after being shut off, the grill may have either caused the fire or might have exploded. This theory was supported by news reports and, according to one news account, officials had \"declined to reveal circumstances surrounding the blaze\" although an autopsy was performed at a local Moncton hospital.\n\nPomeroy, who had been unable to attend the party due to a prior commitment in Moncton, was asked by Prosser's mother to take over the funeral service. Prosser would later be cremated and buried alongside his father.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "102866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102866", "title": "Gay bashing", "text": "Gay bashing\n\nGay bashing and gay bullying is verbal or physical abuse against a person who is perceived by the aggressor to be gay, lesbian, bisexual, transgender, including persons who identify as heterosexual.\n\nA \"bashing\" may be a specific incident, and one could also use the verb \"to bash\" (e.g. \"I was gay bashed.\"). A verbal gay bashing might use sexual slurs, expletives, intimidation, and threatened or actual violence. It also might take place in a political forum and include one or more common anti-gay slogans.\n\nGay bullying involves intentional and unprovoked actions toward the victim, repeated negative actions by one or more people against another person, and an imbalance of physical or psychological power. Similar terms such as \"lesbian bullying\", \"queer bullying\", and \"queer bashing\" may also be formed.\n\nGay bashing has occurred worldwide for many decades and continues today. Homophobia in the United States was especially serious in the late 1940s and early 1950s, when many gay people were forced out of government by boards set up by Presidents Harry S. Truman and Dwight D. Eisenhower. As historian David K. Johnson explains:\n\nJohnson concludes that Senator Joe McCarthy, notorious for his attacks on alleged communists in government, was often pressured by his allies to denounce homosexuals in government, but he resisted and did not do so. Using rumors collected by Drew Pearson, one Nevada publisher wrote in 1952 that both McCarthy and his chief counsel, Roy Cohn, were homosexuals. \"Washington Post\" editor Benjamin C. Bradlee said, \"There was a lot of time spent investigating\" these allegations, \"although no one came close to proving it.\" No reputable McCarthy biographer has accepted it as probable.\n\nEgale Canada conducted a survey of more than 3700 high school students in Canada between December 2007 and June 2009. The final report of the survey, \"Every Class in Every School\", published in 2011, found that 70% of all students participating heard \"that's so gay\" daily at school, and 48% of respondents heard \"faggot\", \"lezbo\" and \"dyke\" daily. 58% or about 1400 of the 2400 heterosexual students participating in EGALE's survey found homophobic comments upsetting.\nFurther, EGALE found that students not directly affected by homophobia, biphobia or transphobia were less aware of it. This finding relates to research done in the area of empathy gaps for social pain which suggests that those not directly experiencing social pain (in this case, bullying) consistently underestimate its effects and thus may not adequately respond to the needs of one experiencing social pain.\n\nEGALE, along with previous research has found teachers and school administration may be complicit in queer bullying through their silence and/or inaction.\n\nGraffiti found on school grounds and property, and its \"relative permanence\", is another form of queer bullying.\n\nSome researchers suggest including youth questioning their sexuality in any research on queer bullying because they may be as susceptible to its effects as queer students.\n\nA research study of 78 eleven to fourteen-year-old boys conducted in twelve schools in London, England between 1998 and 1999 revealed that respondents who used the word \"gay\" to label another boy in a derogatory manner intended the word as \"just a joke\", \"just a cuss\" and not as a statement of one's perceived sexual orientation. American sociologist Michael Kimmel and American psychologist Gregory Herek write that masculinity is a renunciation of the feminine and that males shore up their sense of their masculinity by denigrating the feminine and ultimately the homosexual. Building on the notion of masculinity defining itself by what it is not, some researchers suggest that in fact the renunciation of the feminine may be misogyny. These intertwining issues were examined in 2007, when American sociologist CJ Pascoe described what she calls the \"fag discourse\" at an American high school in her book, \"Dude, You're a Fag\".\n\nGay and lesbian youth are more likely to report bullying. In one study, boys who were bullied with taunts of being gay suffered more bullying and more negative effects compared with boys who were bullied with other categories of taunting.\n\nGay and lesbian youth can develop severe forms of depression and anxiety as they grow up. In fact, 71.4% of LGBT folk experience major depression disorder (MDD). For LGBT individuals, MDD can be caused by any of the following: self-esteem, pressure to conform, minority stress, coming out, family rejection, parenting, relationship formation, and violence. Self-esteem and pressure to conform go hand in hand. When an LGBT individual is told what to look like and who to love, it puts a toll on their self-esteem. When people make comments about who they are, what they look like, who they love, etc. it begins to make them feel insecure. It makes them feel as though they aren't good enough the way they are. \"Coming-out\" is a terms that is used to describe when an LGBT individual makes it known that they are gay, lesbian, etc. Coming out is usually the first factor that will affect a person involved in the LGBT community because when they first discover who they really are, their instinct is to confide in their parents to help them through it (Markheim, Personal Interview). When they experience family rejection after coming out, they automatically feel unwanted and unloved. This can set them into a downward spiral of depression. Parenting and relationship formation are very closely related because usually, people feel more comfortable parenting with their significant other rather than alone, especially if they are involved in the LGBT community. Just recently, in March 2016, is became legal for LGBT parents to adopt in all 50 states. Not being able to conceive their own child can already cause depression, but when they were denied the right to adopt, it caused even more pain. Minority stress is not the biggest of all the factors, but it doesn't make anybody feel better. Minority stress is defined as a stress experienced by LGBT individuals due to their sexual orientation/gender identity. Violence can slip anybody into a depressed state whether the violence is a type of physical abuse, mental abuse, or verbal abuse. A person can be harassed to the point where their depression becomes to much and they no longer experience any happiness. These factors all work together and make it extremely hard to avoid MDD.\n\nQueer bullying may make some victims feel sad and unsafe in the world. Bullying will affect a student's experience of school. Some victims might feel paralyzed and withdraw socially as a coping mechanism. Other victims of queer bullying may begin to live the effects of learned helplessness. Queer or questioning students may try to pass as heterosexual in order to avoid queer bullying. Passing isolates the student from other queer or questioning students, potential allies, and support. Adults who try to pass also may feel the effects emotionally and psychologically, of this effort to conceal their true identities.\nQueer and questioning youth who experience bullying have a higher incidence of substance abuse and STI and HIV infection, which may carry through to adulthood.\nQueer bullying may also be seen as a manifestation of what American academic Ilan Meyer calls \"minority stress\", which may affect sexual and ethno-racial minorities attempting to exist within a challenging broader society.\n\nHomophobic and transphobic violence in educational settings can be categorized as explicit and implicit. Explicit homophobic and transphobic violence consists of overt acts that make subjects feel uncomfortable, hurt, humiliated or intimidated. Peers and educational staff are unlikely to intervene when witnessing these incidents. This contributes to normalizing such acts that become accepted as either a routine disciplinary measure or a means to resolve conflicts among students. Homophobic and transphobic violence – as with all school-related gender-based violence – is acutely underreported due to subjects’ fear of retribution, combined with inadequate or non-existent reporting, support and redress systems. The absence of effective policies, protection or remedies contributes to a vicious cycle where incidents become increasingly normal.\n\nImplicit homophobic and transphobic violence, sometimes called ‘symbolic violence’ or ‘institutional’ violence, is subtler than explicit violence. It consists of pervasive representations or attitudes that sometimes feel harmless or natural to the school community, but that allow or encourage homophobia and transphobia, including perpetuating harmful stereotypes. Policies and guidelines can reinforce or embed these representations or attitudes, whether in an individual institution or across an entire education sector. This way, they can become part of everyday practices and rules guiding school behaviour. Examples of implicit homophobic and transphobic violence include:\n\n\nTeens face harassment, threats, and violence. A 1998 study in the US by Mental Health America found that students heard anti-gay slurs such as \"homo\", \"faggot\" and \"sissy\" about 26 times a day on average, or once every 14 minutes. In a study conducted by the Association of Teachers and Lecturers, a union for UK professionals, the word \"gay\" was reported to be the most popular term of abuse heard by teachers on a regular basis.\n\nAbout two-thirds of gay and lesbian students in British schools have suffered from gay bullying in 2007, according to a study done by the Schools Education Unit for LGB activist group Stonewall. Almost all that had been bullied had experienced verbal attacks, 41 percent had been physically attacked, and 17 percent had received death threats. It also showed that over 50% of teachers did not respond to homophobic language which they had explicitly heard in the classroom, and only 25% of schools had told their students that homophobic bullying was wrong, showing \"a shocking picture of the extent of homophobic bullying undertaken by fellow pupils and, alarmingly, school staff\", with further studies conducted by the same charity in 2012 stated that 90% of teachers had had no training on the prevention of homophobic bullying. However, Ofsted's new 2012 framework did ask schools what they would be doing in order to combat the issue.\n\nThe rate of suicide is higher among LGBT people. According to a 1979 Jay and Young study, 40 percent of gay men and 39 percent of gay women in the US had attempted or seriously thought about suicide. In the same study conducted by the Schools Education Unit for LGB activist group Stonewall, an online survey reported that 71 percent of the girl participants who identified as LGBTQ, and 57 percent of the boy participants who identified as LGBTQ had seriously considered suicide. In 1985, F. Paris estimated that suicides by gay youth may comprise up to 30 percent of all youth suicides in the US. This contributes to suicide being the third leading cause for death among youth aged 10–24, reported by the CDC. The American Foundation for Suicide Prevention has found that gay, lesbian and bisexual youth attempt suicide at a rate three to six times that of similar-age heterosexual youth. The Schools Education Unit also reports that in the same online survey, 25 percent of the people who identified as LGBTQ, have attempted to commit suicide.\n\n\nThe state of Illinois passed a law (SB3266) in June 2010 that prohibits gay bullying and other forms of bullying in schools.\n\nIn the Philippines, legislators implemented Republic Act No. 10627, otherwise known as the Anti-Bullying Act of 2013, in schools. According to the said law, gender-based bullying is defined as ˮany act that humiliates or excludes a person on the basis of perceived or actual sexual orientation and gender identity (SOGI)ˮ.\n\nIn response to growing awareness of gay bashing and bullying, a number of support groups have been founded to help LGBT people cope with their abuse. In Europe Stonewall UK, and Anti-Bullying Network are active in the UK, while Russia has the Russian LGBT network.\n\nNotable in the United States is the It Gets Better Project, for which celebrities and ordinary LGBT people make YouTube videos and share messages of hope for gay teens. The organization works with USA, The Trevor Project and the Gay, Lesbian and Straight Education Network. The Safe Schools Coalition provides resources for teachers and students where bullying is a problem. Egale Canada works with LGBT Canadian citizens. In Brazil, the Gay Group of Bahia (Grupo Gay da Bahia) provides support. LGBT South Africans can turn to the South African Human Rights Commission.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12178808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12178808", "title": "Glande", "text": "Glande\n\nGlande (baptized as \"Richard\") was the leader of Sambians, one of the Prussian clans, during the Great Prussian Uprising (1260–1274) against the papal crusades undertaken by the Teutonic Knights. There is nothing known about his life or achievements, except that once the uprising started, Sambians elected him as their leader.\n\nThe Prussian duke Glande was felled by a spear and his aid Swayno fell soon after. In the confusion and hopelessness the Samlandians retreated to their villages. Hercus Monte came to their aid, but was also heavily wounded by a spear. Samlandians were the first tribe to give up the fight and surrendered in 1265.\n"}
{"id": "50672378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50672378", "title": "Gomocup", "text": "Gomocup\n\nGomocup is a worldwide tournament of artificial intelligences (AI) playing Gomoku and Renju. The tournament has been played since 2000 and takes place every year. As of 2016, it is the most famous and largest Gomoku AI tournament in the world, with around 40 participants from about 10 countries.\n\nGomocup has been played in the freestyle Gomoku rule with the board size of 20 since it was started in 2000. In 2009, the standard Gomoku rule was added into Gomocup as a tournament, in which the board size is 15 and more than five in a row is not considered to be a win. In 2016, the Renju rule was also added into Gomocup, with a board size of 15 and forbidden moves for black. In particular, since there are a large number of participants in the freestyle Gomoku tournament, the freestyle Gomoku tournament is divided into several leagues, and the fast game tournament is introduced.\n\nTo get rid of the fact that there is a winning strategy for the player who plays first in Gomoku, balanced openings have been prepared by Gomoku experts since 2006. Games would be started from these balanced openings, and neither side would have a big advantage from the very beginning.\n\nThere were two AI vs. Human tournaments held in the Czech Republic in 2006 and 2011.\n\nIn 2006, the top 3 programs in Gomocup had a tournament with 3 of the top 10 players in Piškvorky online. There were 2 games between each pair of AI and human players. The result was one win, one draw and one loss for AIs, and the total score was 3:3.\n\nIn 2011, the tournament was between the top 4 programs in Gomocup and 4 players at the top of the Czech Gomoku rating list. Similar to the 1st tournament, there were 2 games between each pair of AI. This time there were 3 draws and 1 win for AIs, and the total score was 5:3.\n\nThe Elo rating system for Gomocup was built in 2016 and calculated with all the historical tournament results ever since. The rating is calculated with the open-source tool BayesElo, with a few parameters modified to get adapted to the Gomoku game. There is a rating list for each game rule. The Elo ratings are updated every year after the Gomocup tournament finishes.\n\nThe results for the Gomocup tournaments since 2000 is in the following.\n"}
{"id": "13739906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13739906", "title": "Immunosenescence", "text": "Immunosenescence\n\nImmunosenescence refers to the gradual deterioration of the immune system brought on by natural age advancement. It involves both the host’s capacity to respond to infections and the development of long-term immune memory, especially by vaccination. This age-associated immune deficiency is ubiquitous and found in both long- and short-living species as a function of their age relative to life expectancy rather than chronological time. It is considered a major contributory factor to the increased frequency of morbidity and mortality among the elderly.\n\nImmunosenescence is not a random deteriorative phenomenon, rather it appears to inversely repeat an evolutionary pattern and most of the parameters affected by immunosenescence appear to be under genetic control. Immunosenescence can also be sometimes envisaged as the result of the continuous challenge of the unavoidable exposure to a variety of antigens such as viruses and bacteria.\n\nImmunosenescence is a multifactorial condition leading to many pathologically significant health problems in the aged population. Some of the age-dependent biological changes that contribute to the onset of immunosenescence are listed below:\n\nAs age advances, there is decline in both the production of new naive lymphocytes and the functional competence of memory cell populations. This has been implicated in the increasing frequency and severity of diseases such as cancer, chronic inflammatory disorders, breakthrough infections and autoimmunity. A problem of infections in the elderly is that they frequently present with non-specific signs and symptoms, and clues of focal infection are often absent or obscured by underlying chronic conditions. Ultimately, this provides problems in diagnosis and subsequently, treatment.\n\nIn addition to changes in immune responses, the beneficial effects of inflammation devoted to the neutralisation of dangerous and harmful agents early in life and in adulthood become detrimental late in life in a period largely not foreseen by evolution, according to the antagonistic pleiotropy theory of aging. It should be further noted that changes in the lymphoid compartment is not solely responsible for the malfunctioning of the immune system in the elderly. Although myeloid cell production does not seem to decline with age, macrophages become dysregulated as a consequence of environmental changes.\n\nThe functional capacity of T-cells is most influenced by the effects of aging. In fact, age-related alterations are evident in all stages of T-cell development, making them a significant factor in the development of immunosenescence. After birth, the decline of T-cell function begins with the progressive involution of the thymus, which is the organ essential for T-cell maturation following the migration of precursor cells from the bone marrow. This age-associated decrease of thymic epithelial volume results in a reduction/exhaustion on the number of thymocytes (i.e. pre-mature T-cells), thus reducing output of peripheral naïve T-cells. Once matured and circulating throughout the peripheral system, T-cells still undergo deleterious age-dependent changes. Together with the age-related thymic involution, and the consequent age-related decrease of thymic output of new T cells, this situation leaves the body practically devoid of virgin T cells, which makes the body more prone to a variety of infectious and non-infectious diseases. T-cell components associated with immunosenescence include:\n"}
{"id": "53886626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53886626", "title": "InspectIT", "text": "InspectIT\n\ninspectIT is an open-source application performance management (APM) tool, which enables the diagnosis, analysis and monitoring of Java applications. inspectIT is developed by NovaTec Consulting GmbH, an IT consulting company from Stuttgart (Germany), but it has been made open-source in August 2015.\n\ninspectIT follows a \"user-transaction-centered” approach whereby the focus is on the analysis of concrete user requests. For each request against a system which is supervised by inspectIT, a detailed call tree, named \"invocation sequence\", is constructed. The \"invocation sequences\" contain the exact execution times of all invocations of instrumented methods. Using this information, user requests can be analyzed and root causes of potential problems can be discovered. Also included in the \"invocation sequences\" are all requests against databases which can be used to detect and solve problems in the database access layer or certain queries.\n\nSince version 1.8.1, inspectIT offers functionality for real user monitoring that records user interaction with, for example, a website or web-based application.\n\nThe architecture of inspectIT consists of three main components:\n\nDuring the Java class loading process of the JVM, a Java-based agent is integrated into the class loading process which is able to intercept and modify the Java Bytecode of loaded classes. Contrary to profilers, inspectIT injects measurement points only at specific locations to keep the overhead of the measurements at a minimum. Using this approach, it allows the user to transparently inject measurement points into an application without adapting its source code.\n\nThe development of inspectIT started in the year 2005 under the name NovaSpy as closed source software. It was renamed into inspectIT in 2008 and the first major release (version 1.0) has been released in March 2010. Since then, new versions have been released on a regular basis.\n\nOn August 14, 2015, inspectIT has been made available as open-source software under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (ALv2).\n\n"}
{"id": "7597528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7597528", "title": "International Neuroinformatics Coordinating Facility", "text": "International Neuroinformatics Coordinating Facility\n\nThe International Neuroinformatics Coordinating Facility (INCF) is an international non-profit science organization which develops collaborative neuroinformatics infrastructure and promotes the sharing of data and computing resources to the international research community. INCF was established in 2005 by recommendations of the Global Science Forum working group of the OECD. The secretariat is hosted by the Karolinska Institutet in Stockholm, Sweden. the INCF has active nodes in 18 countries. The Executive Director is Linda Lanyon, and the Governing Board Chair is Keiji Tanaka\n\nINCF's mission is to facilitate the work of neuroscientists around the world, and to catalyze and coordinate the global development of neuroinformatics through fostering scientific collaboration, advance training in neuroinformatics, and act as an independent international facilitator.\n\nINCF:\n\n• promotes the sharing of data and computing resources to the international research community\n\n• advances training in neuroinformatics\n\n• fosters scientific collaboration to develop FAIR neuroinformatics solutions\n\n• acts as an international independent facilitator for standards and infrastructure\n\nA key element to successfully understanding the nervous system is the integration of neuroscience with information sciences. The field that studies the nervous system, neuroscience, has responded to the fantastic challenge of understanding how our brain works with the use of the most sophisticated technologies, from studies on the genome to those on brain imaging of behaviour in humans and other species, under different functional states, and at all intervening analytical levels. This effort has resulted in large quantities of data, which are ever increasing at higher levels of complexity. The data produced are heterogeneous, coming from different levels of study and modalities of analysis. To rise to this challenge of integration, and to ensure efficient and maximum use of these data, it is now necessary to develop and create these shared resources: \nThis challenge is being met through the merging of neurosciences with information science – the field of neuroinformatics.\n\nThe recommendation to coordinate international efforts in the new field of neuroinformatics was first made in the report on bioinformatics elaborated under the aegis of the then OECD Megascience Forum in 1998. Following extensive discussions in the Neuroinformatics Working Group of the Global Science Forum chaired by Dr. Stephen H. Koslow, the proposal to create an International Neuroinformatics Coordinating Council and a system of grant funding for neuroinformatics research was then presented in 2002. This project was endorsed by OECD science ministers at their meeting in January 2004. Sixteen countries (Australia, Canada, China, the Czech Republic, Denmark, Finland, France, Germany, India, Italy, Japan, the Netherlands, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, the United Kingdom, the United States and Victoria, Australia), as well as the European Commission, then elaborated the working documents that form the legal basis for the INCF and the Programme in International Neuroinformatics (PIN).\n\nThe conditions laid out for the creation of the INCF were met in July 2005, seven countries (the Czech Republic, Finland, Germany, Norway, Sweden, Switzerland, and the United States) having signed the Understanding document and pledged their financial contribution. A bid to host the INCF Secretariat was launched. Two proposals were received and, as instructed by the Governing Board, on November 3, the OECD convened a panel of experts to review and rank the proposals. The panel assigned the higher ranking to the Swedish proposal, and this recommendation was endorsed by the INCF Governing Board when it met at OECD headquarters on November 28. Following extensive international discussions, the INCF was officially inaugurated in February 2007, with headquarters at the Karolinska Institute in Stockholm.\n\n include\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15710082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15710082", "title": "Iobox", "text": "Iobox\n\nIObox Oy was a Finnish mobile and web portal operator. Formed in 1999, the dot-com company ended up as part of Telefónica Mobile.\n\nAt a sale price of $250m (€230m) in 2000, IObox represented the largest venture capital exit in Finland until the sale of MySQL AB in 2008 for $1bn (€670m).\n\nIObox was founded in January 1999 by Jari Ovaskainen (formerly of Andersen Consulting) and Henry Nilert (formerly of Credit Suisse First Boston). Ovaskainen sold his car and used other assets including his life-savings to raise $120,000. A round of funding in the first month brought in €3.1m and the opening of a Helsinki office in Finland followed.\n\nIn November 2000, the office in London, England opened. Second round financing in December 2001 brought another €13m. In January 2000, after offices in Munich and Stockholm had opened, London become the main company headquarters. IObox acquired \"Futuron Wireless Solutions\" and with an Oulu office opening in March 2000 had brought the staff count to 70 persons.\n\nAt the point of sale in July 2000, the company had grown to 100 employees. This expanded further to beyond 200 employees by near the end of the same year.\nIObox operated mobile and web portals, having as many as three million users. In addition the company operated branded portal sites for customers such as the Swedish communications company Telia, using software written in Java EE.\n\nIn February 2000 IObox announced \"Wapagotchi\", a digital pet similar to the briefly popular Tamagotchi style toys. The user (\"owner\") would control their pet using WAP pages. If the virtual pet was neglected, or hadn't been cared for enough, the owner would receive SMS notifications, for example, stating that the pet was \"hungry\".\n\nFor a time from July 2000, IObox offered UK consumers a SMS-to-email gateway costing 6p per email( termed \"m-Mail\"), despite other companies already having offered such as service for free.\n\nIn February 2001, an announcement was made along with provider BEA Systems that their \"global wireless portal\" had scaled to 3.5 million users and up to 4,000 simultaneous connections. Only a third of the registered users had visited more than once, often only signing up for free credits.\n\nThe company was originally backed by several venture capitalists, including CapMan Plc (listed on the Helsinki Stock Exchange). CapMan and others disposed all 100% of IOBox to the Spanish organisation Terra Mobile in July 2000 (just 19 months after founding) for €230m cash. Terra Mobile was itself a joint operation of Telefónica and Terra Networks.\n\nUpon the dissolution of IObox Oy prior to December 2002, Telefónica were forced to write-down the \"goodwill\" associated with the purchase to the tune of €154m\n\nIn early 2007, Finnish company Lapitor Oy acquired a large number of the old codice_1 domain names. The new company announced its intention to try to \"carry on from the point where Spaniards left Iobox in 2002\". Lapitor stated that it hoped to publish the new Iobox portal venture across twelve European countries.\n\nIn January 2008, Lapitor managed to acquire the European-wide trademark for \"iobox\", saying that they paid nothing for the trademarks. Telefónica had gained the original trademark as part of the €230m buy-out in 2002. As Telefónica has not defended the original, Lapitor has started a process to attempt to cancel Telefónica's trademark.\n\nIn the fall of 2011, Suomen Kierrätyskone Oy acquired the Iobox trademark (EU-wide trademark number 005806609) and a large number of associated domain names. A mail service that accepts mail addressed to those domains was brought up in the beginning of February 2012. During the month, it has received approximately 200,000 attempts each day to send email to old iobox addresses. In the end of the year the figure has climbed, with the highest per-day figures seen being close to 4 million.\n"}
{"id": "50824653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50824653", "title": "Kim Jong-oh", "text": "Kim Jong-oh\n\nKim Jong-oh () (May 22, 1921 – March 30, 1966) was South Korean Republic of Korea Army soldier in the Korean War. He was born in North Chungcheong Province. He was active in the First Republic of South Korea and Third Republic of South Korea. He was the 10th president of the Republic of Korea Military Academy (1952–1954) and commander of the Republic of Korea 1st Army.\n"}
{"id": "8125499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8125499", "title": "Kitāb al-Hayawān", "text": "Kitāb al-Hayawān\n\nThe Kitāb al-Hayawān (كتاب الحيوان; English: \"Book of Animals\") is an Arabic translation in 19 treatises (\"maqālāt\") of the following zoological texts by Aristotle:\n\n\"Historia Animalium\" : treatises 1-10\n\"De Partibus Animalium\" : treatises 11-14\n\"De Generatione Animalium\" : treatises 15-19\n\nWhile the book is often attributed to Yahyà bin al-Bitrīq, the translator is unknown. However, from certain oddities in the Arabic, it has been deduced that it is a translation of a lost Syriac version. The complete text is available only in manuscript form (in Tehran), but treatises 11-14 (\"De Partibus\") have been edited as \"Ajzā’ al-hayawān (The Parts of Animals)\" and 15-19 (\"De Generatione\") as \"Fī kawn al-hayawān (On the Being of Animals)\".\n\nThe first known mention of the book appears in a text by the Arab philosopher Al-Kindī (d. 850). Ibn Sīnā (Avicenna) seems to have had direct knowledge of the book, as he paraphrased and commented upon the full text in his encyclopedic Al-Shifā’. In Spain, the 12th-century philosopher Ibn Bājja (Avempace) wrote on \"De Partibus\" and \"De Generatione\". It has been remarked that one usually finds references to the \"Historia\" in the Eastern Islamicate world, while the other two books are generally referred to in the West, and in conformity to this pattern, Ibn Rushd (Averroes), like Ibn Bājja, wrote commentaries on \"De Partibus\" and \"De Generatione\" (see below), in which he criticizes Ibn Sīnā’s interpretations.\n\n\"Kitāb al-hayawān\" was known at least indirectly to several important zoographers including Al-Jāhiz (\"Kitāb al-hayawān\"), Al-Mas‘ūdī (\"Murawwaj al-dhahab\"), Abū Hayyān al-Tawhīdī (\"Al-Imtā‘ wa al-mu’ānasa\"), Al-Qazwīnī (\"‘Ajā’ib al-makhlūqāt\"), and Al-Damīrī (\"Hayāt al-hayawān\"). They may have known the Aristotelian \"Kitāb al-hayawān\" at second hand from Arabic compendiums of selected passages from the book. The only extant compendium is the \"Maqāla tushtamalu ‘à la fusūl min kitāb al-hayawān\", attributed (probably falsely) to Mūsà bin Maymūn (Moses Maimonides), and the Greek \"Compendium\" of Nicolaus Damascenus was at least partially available by the 11th century.\n\nFinally, Michael Scot’s early 13th-century Latin translation of the \"Kitāb al-hayawān\", \"De Animalibus\", is worthy of mention as the vehicle of transmission into Western Europe. It was alleged by Roger Bacon that Scot \"had appropriated to himself the credit of translations which more properly belonged to one Andreas the Jew.\" This may mean that he had help with the Arabic manuscript, or that he worked fully or in part from a Judaeo-Arabic or Hebrew version. Scot's \"De Animalibus\" is available in a partial edition.\n"}
{"id": "10788899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10788899", "title": "Lek paradox", "text": "Lek paradox\n\nThe lek paradox is the conundrum of how additive or beneficial genetic variation is maintained in lek mating species, in the face of consistent female preferences, sexual selection. While many studies have attempted to explain how the lek paradox fits into Darwinian theory, the paradox remains. Persistent female choice for particular male trait values should erode genetic diversity in male traits and thereby remove the benefits of choice, yet choice persists. This paradox can be somewhat alleviated by the occurrence of mutations introducing potential differences, as well as the possibility that traits of interest have more or less favorable recessive alleles.\n\nThe basis of the lek paradox is continuous genetic variation in spite of strong female preference for certain traits. There are two conditions in which the lek paradox arises. The first is that males contribute only genes and the second is that female preference does not affect fecundity. Female choice should lead to directional runaway selection, resulting in a greater prevalence for the selected traits. Stronger selection should lead to impaired survival, as it decreases genetic variance and ensures that more offspring have similar traits. However, lekking species do not exhibit runaway selection.\n\nIn a lekking reproductive system, what male sexual characteristics can signal to females is limited, as the males provide no resources to females or parental care to their offspring. This implies that females gain indirect benefits from her choice in the form of “good genes” for her offspring. Hypothetically, in choosing a male that excels at courtship displays, females gain genes for their offspring that increase their survival or reproductive fitness.\n\nAmotz Zahavi declared that male sexual characteristics only convey useful information to the females if these traits confer a handicap on the male. Otherwise, males could simply cheat: if the courtship displays have a neutral effect on survival, males could all perform equally and it would signify nothing to the females. But if the courtship display is somehow deleterious to the male’s survival—such as increased predator risk or time and energy expenditure—it becomes a test by which females can assess male quality. Under the handicap principle, males who excel at the courtship displays prove that they are of better quality and genotype, as they have already withstood the costs to having these traits. Resolutions have been formed to explain why strong female mate choice does not lead to runaway selection. The handicap principle describes how costly male ornaments provide females with information about the male’s inheritable fitness. The handicap principle may be a resolution to the lek paradox, for if females select for the condition of male ornaments, then their offspring have better fitness.\n\nOne potential resolution to the lek paradox is Rowe and Houle's theory of condition-dependent expression of male sexually selected traits. Similar to the handicap principle, Rowe and Houle argue that sexually selected traits depend on physical condition. Condition, in turn, summarizes a large number of genetic loci, including those involved in metabolism, muscular mass, nutrition, etc. Rowe and Houle claim that condition dependence maintains genetic variation in the face of persistent female choice, as the male trait is correlated with abundant genetic variation in condition. This is the genic capture hypothesis, which describes how a significant amount of the genome is involved in shaping the traits that are sexually selected. There are two criteria in the genic capture hypothesis: the first is that sexually selected traits are dependent upon condition and the second is that general condition is attributable to high genetic variance.\n\nGenetic variation in condition-dependent traits may be further maintained through mutations and environmental effects. Genotypes may be more effective in developing condition dependent sexual characteristics in different environments, while mutations may be deleterious in one environment and advantageous in another. Thus genetic variance remains in populations through gene flow across environments or generation overlap. According to the genic capture hypothesis, female selection does not deplete the genetic variance, as sexual selection operates on condition dependence traits, thereby accumulating genetic variance within the selected for trait. Therefore, females are actually selecting for high genetic variance.\n\nIn an alternate but non-exclusionary hypothesis, W. D. Hamilton and M. Zuk proposed that successful development of sexually selected traits signal resistance to parasites. Parasites can significantly stress their hosts so that they are unable to develop sexually selected traits as well as healthy males. According to this theory, a male who vigorously displays demonstrates that he has parasite-resistant genes to the females. In support of this theory, Hamilton and Zuk found that male sexual ornaments were significantly correlated with levels of incidence of six blood diseases in North American passerine bird species. The Hamilton and Zuk model addresses the lek paradox, arguing that the cycles of co-adaptation between host and parasite resist a stable equilibrium point. Hosts continue to evolve resistance to parasites and parasites continue to bypass resistant mechanisms, continuously generating genetic variation. The genic capture and parasite resistance hypotheses could logically co-occur in the same population.\n\nOne resolution to the lek paradox involves female preferences and how preference alone does not cause a drastic enough directional selection to diminish the genetic variance in fitness. Another conclusion is that the preferred trait is not naturally selected for or against and the trait is maintained because it implies increased attractiveness to the male. Thus, there may be no paradox.\n"}
{"id": "39039622", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39039622", "title": "List of pop musicians who died of drug overdose", "text": "List of pop musicians who died of drug overdose\n\nThis is a list of rock musicians who died of drug overdose along with the date, age at time of death, location, and name of drug.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57893395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57893395", "title": "Lists of deaths", "text": "Lists of deaths\n\nThe following are lists of notable deaths.\n"}
{"id": "4028990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4028990", "title": "Missio Dei", "text": "Missio Dei\n\nMissio Dei is a Latin Christian theological term that can be translated as the \"mission of God,\" or the \"sending of God.\" It is a concept which has become increasingly important in missiology and in understanding the mission of the church since the second half of the 20th century. Some of its key proponents include David Bosch, Lesslie Newbigin, and Darrell Guder.\n\nIn 1934, the German missiologist Karl Hartenstein first coined the term \"missio Dei\" to distinguish it from the \"missio ecclesiae\", that is, the mission of the church. Some scholars holds that this coinage, which can be traced as far back as Augustine, had a strong trinitarian basis. This language, it is argued, was picked up at the 1952 Willingen conference of the International Missionary Council (IMC) and developed theologically by Lutheran theologian, Georg Vicedom.\n\nHowever, John Flett maintains that while Hartenstein did introduce the actual term \"missio Dei\", he did not locate that mission in the doctrine of the Trinity. Such reference to the Trinity appeared in the \"American report,\" a study document prepared for the 1952 Willingen conference, under the leadership of Paul Lehmann and H. Richard Niebuhr. \n\nThe \"American report\" suggested a link between revolutionary movements in history and \"God's mission.\" Many of the later contentions with \"missio Dei\" stem from these origins, and especially the failure to ground the concept in a robust account of the Trinity.\n\nThe acknowledged concerns with \"missio Dei\" also meant that reference to the concept went through a hiatus until it was given concise description by David Bosch. According to David J. Bosch, \"mission is not primarily an activity of the church, but an attribute of God. God is a missionary God.\" Jurgen Moltmann says, \"It is not the church that has a mission of salvation to fulfill in the world; it is the mission of the Son and the Spirit through the Father that includes the church.\" According to one opinion:\n\nDuring the past half a century or so there has been a subtle but nevertheless decisive shift toward understanding mission as God’s mission. During preceding centuries mission was understood in a variety of ways. Sometimes it was interpreted primarily in soteriological terms: as saving individuals from eternal damnation. Or it was understood in cultural terms: as introducing people from East and the South to the blessings and privileges of the Christian West. Often it was perceived in ecclesiastical categories: as the expansion of the church (or of a specific denomination). Sometimes it was defined salvation-historically: as the process by which the world—evolutionary or by means of a cataclysmic event—would be transformed into the kingdom of God. In all these instances, and in various, frequently conflicting ways, the intrinsic interrelationship between christology, soteriology, and the doctrine of the Trinity, so important for the early church, was gradually displaced by one of several versions of the doctrine of grace … \n\nMission was understood as being derived from the very nature of God. It was thus put in the context of the doctrine of the Trinity, not of ecclesiology or soteriology. The classical doctrine on the missio Dei as God the Father sending the Son, and God the Father and the Son sending the Spirit was expanded to include yet another “movement”: The Father, Son and the Holy Spirit sending the church into the world. As far as missionary thinking was concerned, this linking with the doctrine of the Trinity constituted an important innovation … \n\nOur mission has not life of its own: only in the hands of the sending God can it truly be called mission. Not least since the missionary initiative comes from God alone … \n\nMission is thereby seen as a movement from God to the world; the church is viewed as an instrument for that mission. There is church because there is mission, not vice versa. To participate in mission is to participate in the movement of God’s love toward people, since God is a fountain of sending love. \n\nSpeaking on behalf of \"The Gospel and Our Culture Network\", Darrell Guder writes, \"We have come to see that mission is not merely an activity of the church. Rather, mission is the result of God’s initiative, rooted in God’s purposes to restore and heal creation. ‘Mission’ means ‘sending,’ and it is the central biblical theme describing the purpose of God’s action in human history... We have begun to learn that the biblical message is more radical, more inclusive, more transforming than we have allowed it to be. In particular, we have begun to see that the church of Jesus Christ is not the purpose or goal of the gospel, but rather its instrument and witness... God’s mission is calling and sending us, the church of Jesus Christ, to be a missionary church in our own societies, in the cultures in which we find ourselves.”\n\nAlan Hirsch believes the word missional \"goes to the heart of the very nature and purpose of the church itself.\" He continues, “So a working definition of missional church is a community of God’s people that defines itself, and organizes its life around, its real purpose of being an agent of God’s mission to the world. In other words, the church’s true and authentic organizing principle is mission. When the church is in mission, it is the true church. The church itself is not only a product of that mission but is obligated and destined to extend it by whatever means possible. The mission of God flows directly through every believer and every community of faith that adheres to Jesus. To obstruct this is to block God’s purposes in and through God’s people.”\n\nPeters states that the Bible claims “the end result of such \"missio Dei\" is the glorification of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit.”\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1691883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1691883", "title": "Motoko Kusanagi", "text": "Motoko Kusanagi\n\nMotoko Kusanagi's body was designed by Masamune Shirow to be a mass production model so she would not be conspicuous. Her electrical and mechanical system within is special and features parts unavailable on the civilian market. Shirow intentionally chose this appearance so Motoko would not be harvested for those parts.\n\nIn the film adaptation, character designer and key animator supervisor Hiroyuki Okiura, made her different from her original manga counterpart stating, \"Motoko Kusanagi is a cyborg. Therefore her body is strong and youthful. However her human mentality is considerably older than she looks. I tried to depict this maturity in her character instead of the original girl created by Masamune Shirow\". In nearly all portrayals, Kusanagi is depicted as a self-made woman. She is a fiercely independent and capable leader who has proven herself under fire countless times; a feminist role-model, a female who equals and surpasses her male counterparts in fair comparison. The \"Stand Alone Complex\" and \"Arise\" television series include numerous scenes in which Kusanagi plays practical jokes on her men (Batou in particular) or sarcastically illustrates her cynical sense of superiority.\n\nKenji Kamiyama had a difficult time identifying her and could not understand her motives during the first season of \"\". Due to this, he created an episode in the second season where he recounted her past. He was then able to describe her as a human who was chosen to gain this superhuman power; she probably believes that she has an obligation to use that ability for the benefit of others.\n\nEnglish voice actor and director Mary McGlynn states she loved playing the role of Motoko Kusanagi and described her as \"someone [who] was that strong, and still kind of feminine at times, but also kick-ass\".\n\nComputer technology has advanced to such a point that most people possess \"cyberbrains\"—a technological \"organic-synthetic\" user interface implant that allows their minds to interact with machines or networks around them. In some cases of extreme trauma, it’s possible to replace large segments of the brain and body with prosthetic counterparts. Major Motoko Kusanagi is one such person, living in a full-body prosthesis after an accident as a child; her only organic parts are her brain and spinal cord. Being physically locked in her mid-twenties, Kusanagi's current body is amongst the most advanced models on the market, possessing 16²/cm² skin tactile elements, meaning she has a greatly heightened sense of touch.\n\nIn every anime iteration, Section 9 has been all-male excepting the Major who leads the team. The \"Arise\" series details Kusanagi forming the current team roster to her own specifications. Kusanagi demonstrates her superiority by being a woman commanding her male co-workers. She forms and leads Section 9 because she’s the most capable member of the team. \n\nKusanagi is a leading expert in cyberbrain combative warfare. As the most heavily mechanized member of Section 9, she is regarded amongst her peers as the best melee fighter and the most skilled \"hacker and net diver\". Chief Aramaki described her abilities as \"...rarer than ESP\"; the kind of person that government agencies hire to assassinate without leaving a trace. Considered a \"Wizard Class\" grey hat, her computer security hacking skills allows her brain–computer interface consciousness in controlling two-external humanoid \"drone\"-robots remotely with the ability to move from host to host. Kusanagi repeatedly demonstrates ability to hack people's cyber-brains, allowing her to \"see through their eyes\", or even take control of their bodies altogether. As a cyborg, Kusanagi is able to perform numerous superhuman feats, such as superhuman strength, leaping between skyscrapers, advanced acrobatics, or shooting down a bullet after it was fired at mid-range.\n\nLittle is known of Motoko Kusanagi's early history. Only hints at some of her background, usually through flashbacks, and nearly always from the points of view of others; rarely from Kusanagi's herself. The \"Stand Alone Complex\" television series, establishes that Motoko Kusanagi has lived within cyborg “shells” practically since birth. The \"Arise\" video series confirms that Motoko Kusanagi earned her military rank “Major” by serving in the army. Motoko Kusanagi earned her reputation as “Fire Starter,” a master computer hacker, through years of experience and activity. Kusanagi is often portrayed wearing provocative dress and attire (or lack of attire) and experiments with \"human vices\" in an attempt to understand that part of her humanity, and in particular her femininity.\n\nKusanagi's various incarnations in the different manga or movies or TV series all portray her differently. In the original manga, Kusanagi's portrayal differs from that of the film-versions; she has a much more slapstick, vivacious, and sexy personality. Since each of these have independent storylines, the physical and mental characteristics of Motoko Kusanagi has been modified in different ways to reflect the focus of the story; these changes are reflected in the different ways that artists draw her.\n\nIn the \"2nd Gig\" episode \"Kusanagi's Labyrinth – AFFECTION\" portrays a youthful Kusanagi was involved in a plane crash, the only other survivor of which was Hideo Kuze who later became a member of the \"Individual Eleven\". After spending an undefined period of time in a coma Kusanagi's \"ghost\" was transferred into a fully cybernetic-prosthetic body without her prior consent. After this she visited Hideo Kuze in hospital since he was still paralysed from the injuries he had suffered in the crash and eventually convinced him to undergo the cyberization procedure himself.\n\nAt the end of the series Kusanagi confessed that she couldn't remember what her real name was, indicating that Motoko Kusanagi is actually only a pseudonym as Chroma, Fire Starter or Mira Killian; just as Hideo Kuze's name is as well.\n\nIn \"Ghost in the Shell\", Kusanagi participates in a lesbian sex splash panel, involving Kurutan and Ran, and has a boyfriend. The unnamed boyfriend works for \"Section One\", and they have been dating for seven months; to which Batou considers this \"a new record\". In Ghost in the Shell S.A.C. 2nd GIG, Episode 17 – \"DI Mother and Child – RED DATA\", having taken an adolescent male to a hotel after rescuing him from yakuza, both share the same bed for the night, with Motoko attempting to seduce the boy and to gain his trust. The boy asks Motoko if cyborgs can still have sex, to which Motoko responds \"You care to find out?\"\n\nThe \"Ghost in the Shell (2017)\" film displays a scene in which the Kusanagi silently examines a human prostitute that deftly implies a fascination with what makes humans human. The scene provokes viewers Kusanagi’s sexual orientation, her interest in sex at all, and more importantly her curiosity about life and what exactly constitutes a living human.\n\nHeterosexual \"E-sex\" is rather painful, as depicted in the splash panel. It is also an illegal act and lucrative \"side business\" for Motoko, as stated by Masamune Shirow in the back of the manga collection. \"Same gender/sex\" cyborg-compatibility are rarely an issue, as the user(s)' interfaced nervous systems allow shared simultaneous sensations; such intimate connections have the potential for serious medical complications for user(s) of \"Opposing sex/gender\" compatibility, as illustrated by the accidental arrival of Batou (who is male). Shirow stated in his poster-book, \"Intron Depot 1\", that \"I drew an all-girl orgy because I didn't want to draw some guy's butt.\" The lesbian sex splash panel was cut from the original American release of the manga, as it would have entailed giving the book an \"adults only\" rating. Ultimately, Shirow decided it wasn't important to the plot. In the second edition, released on November 17, 2004, the scene is completely unedited.\n\nMotoko is a commanding presence when on assignment, but also trades insults with her troops. She constantly calls Aramaki \"Ape Face\" as well as other members in Public Security Section 9, and when the Puppet Master reveals the \"Motokos\" that exist in the minds of those who know her, Aramaki's \"Motoko\" is sticking her tongue out. She is much more light-hearted and immature in some occasions. Due to the Puppeteer case, she started to change and became much more serious.\n\nIn the sequel, \"Ghost in the Shell 2: Man/Machine Interface\", a person known as Motoko Aramaki appears. She identifies herself as containing \"Motoko Kusanagi\" elements, along with Project 2501, the Puppeteer. She is also identified as \"Motoko 11\" hinting that there is more than one.\n\nA second character is also introduced in \"Ghost in the Shell 2: Man/Machine Interface\" named Millennium, who controls a group named \"Stabat Mater\" that is researching a process known as \"Brain Expansion\". This research is apparently called off after Millennium is taken over by Motoko Aramaki. At this time Millennium is revealed to be \"'No. 20' (Millennium),\" indicating that Millennium is another of the Motoko Kusanagi/Project 2501 hybrid entities.\n\nIn the 1995 animated film \"Ghost in the Shell\" by Mamoru Oshii, the Major's design is significantly different from her original manga appearance. Unlike her manga counterpart, the Major has an androgynous face and rarely shows emotion. Like the manga, Public Security Section 9 investigate the crimes of a genius hacker called the Puppet Master. Kusanagi is frequently portrayed in the film as contemplative and brooding, in contrast to the down-to-earth nature of her partner Batou. Since she has a full cybernetic body, she is not certain her \"ghost\" retains any humanity and speculates on the possibility that she is entirely synthetic, with artificially generated memories designed to fool her into thinking she was once human. Throughout the movie, she seeks to find answers to her questions and finally meets the Puppet Master, a rogue AI who became sentient and who is also looking for existential meaning. In the climax of the film, Kusanagi and the Puppet Master \"merge\" to form an entirely new entity that exists free of physical boundaries and can propagate itself through the Net.\n\nIn the 2004 follow-up \"\", picking up three years after the events of the original movie, the Major herself does not make any sort of appearance. Throughout the film, the Major makes her first \"true\" appearance in Kim's manor, where she breaks into the hallway component of Kim's looping false memories and inserts herself (represented by the little girl prosthetic body she inhabited at the end of the first movie), and providing clues to alert Batou to Kim's attempted \"ghost-hack\" on himself and Togusa. The Major's \"ghost\" eventually returns in person to help Batou on the Locus Solus gynoid factory ship. Using a satellite transmission, she attempts to download her \"ghost\" into one of the Hadaly gynoid production models—however, due to the insufficient memory of the gynoid's e-brain, she is only able to download a fraction of her full \"ghost\" into the doll. (She notes with marked disdain that the gynoid had barely enough memory for her combat protocols.) Her personality has not changed much from the first movie—she still retains her fondness for philosophy and her considerable skills in battle, though she has also gained the Puppet Master's formidable hacking abilities. In a climactic sequence, she tears apart her mechanical body in the process of opening the ship's CPU hatch in order to hack into it. After successfully locking down the ship and uncovering the truth behind the conspiracy, Kusanagi prepares to once again disappear into the Net, but reassures a despondent Batou that whenever he logs in, she will always be beside him.\n\nIn the 2017 DreamWorks Pictures \"Ghost in the Shell\" live-action movie directed by Rupert Sanders, Scarlett Johansson plays Motoko, who is initially introduced as Mira Killian (who shares the same initials). It is revealed at the end of the film that she was originally a teenage Japanese girl and activist named Motoko Kusanagi (portrayed by Kaori Yamamoto) who had run away from home one year prior to the events of the film. While living with other critics of cyborg technology in what is referred to as the Lawless Region, she is kidnapped by agents of the Hanka Robotics corporation, who perform experiments upon her and place her brain inside a cybernetic body. In effect, this makes her the first full-body cyborg to be successfully developed. Upon awakening inside her new body, Kusanagi is told that her name is Mira Killian and that her family was killed in a terrorist attack. She is also given false memories and subsequently employed by Section 9. Mira later discovers the secret behind her creation from the film's initial antagonist Kuze, who also underwent experimentation, as well as Dr. Ouelet, who played a primary role in developing her prosthetic body. With the help of Section 9, she consents to having Cutter, the Hanka executive trying to murder her, killed by her boss, Aramaki.\n\nThe Major retains much of her personality from the manga in the anime series \"\" and its followup \"\", although she is not disrespectful toward the Chief like she is in the manga. As in the manga and unlike the movies, where she had black hair and blue-grey eyes, she now has blue-purple hair and red-violet eyes. Throughout the series, The Major maintains her signature commanding presence and authority. Among the various members of Section 9, Kusanagi is usually the one Chief Aramaki singles out to accompany him on official and off the record business. Kusanagi's personal life is not shown much in the first season. She underwent cyberization at a very early age and had trouble adapting to the use of her body which resulted in her inadvertently breaking one of her favorite dolls. She keeps a wrist watch as proof of her past.\n\nIn the first season, Kusanagi started questioning the use of the Tachikoma sentient tanks, due to them showing signs of individuality and curiosity not suited for combat. Ultimately, she decides to have them stripped of their weaponry and sent back to the lab that manufactured them for analysis and further work. When the Tachikoma sacrificed themselves to save Batou, Major Kusanagi understands that she was wrong in halting the usage of the Tachikoma and proposes that they might have evolved to have ghosts themselves.\n\nIn the second season her past was revealed. She was once a little girl who had been in a plane crash causing her to be in a coma. A boy who was also a victim of the plane crash continuously made origami cranes using only his left hand, as much of his body was paralyzed in the accident, in hopes of giving them to her when she woke up. Motoko was eventually taken away when medical complications occurred. The boy thought she had died, but she was actually being cyberized and given a full prosthetic body. When she returned to see the boy, the boy did not recognize her and ignored her. When she left the hospital, the boy realized she was the girl in the coma and made a decision to get cyberized and look for her, but he never saw her again. Throughout the second season, the Major and Section 9 go against a terrorist group called \"The Individual Eleven\". Believing it to be another \"stand alone complex\" they unwillingly teamed up with Kazundo Gouda in order to figure out their motive. When the 11 leaders of the individual eleven reveal themselves, they all kill each other except for Hideo Kuze. It was later revealed that Hideo Kuze was the little boy who Motoko once knew as a child; this discovery caused her some emotional confusion.\n\nIn the \"\" OVA, the Major has left Section 9 for two years and does not appear much in the first half of the film. She first appears on a building jumping off into the darkness. She shows up later as Chroma, to warn Batou to stay away from the \"Solid State Society\". She returns to her normal body after \"Chroma\" re-stores herself in the recharging chamber. She is suspected of being the Puppeteer, but is no longer suspected when she rescues Togusa from a (coerced) suicide attempt. She leads Section 9 on a raid to find the Puppeteer. At the end of Solid State Society, she repeats her famous line, \"The net is truly vast and infinite.\"\n\nIn the \" (2013)\" OVA series, Motoko is completely redesigned from her previous incarnations, as are all members of the main character cast. Her cybernetic body is shown as far younger in appearance and shorter in height to other versions, resembling a teenager or young adult and not much taller than Chief Aramaki. Her hair is blue and cut in a close, straight bang form, and she is usually shown wearing full red leather pants and jackets and high heel boots.\n\nMotoko is a player character in \"Ghost in the Shell\" (1997) for the PlayStation, \"\" (2004) for the PlayStation 2, \"\" (2005) for the PlayStation Portable, and \"\" (2016) for Microsoft Windows.\n\nMotoko Kusanagi was well received by media. Motoko ranked 13th in IGN's list of the top anime characters of all time in 2009, commenting that \"though she may be cool, professional, and mostly artificial, she's unquestionably human, and following her adventures through \"Ghost in the Shell\" was never less than fascinating\". In 2014, IGN ranked her as the 11th greatest anime character of all time, saying that \"Motoko was a stunning example of a strong female character that didn't need to have her feminism make a statement.\" Derrick L Tucker of \"THEM\" noted that the Stand Alone Complex version was easier to get attached to over her film counterpart due to her design and personality.\n\nMotoko's female identity and appearance is countered by the autonomous subjectivity, resulting in a \"male\" cyborg body which cannot menstruate. The original film depicts Motoko's identity and ontological concerns with and ends with the evolution of the being, resulting in full subjectivity, through a new form of reproduction with the Puppet Master. Austin Corbett commented on the lack of sexualization from her team as freedom from femininity, noting that Motoko is \"overtly feminine, and clearly non-female\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55289152", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55289152", "title": "Mynarski Death Plummet", "text": "Mynarski Death Plummet\n\nMynarski Death Plummet () is a Canadian short film, directed by Matthew Rankin and released in 2014. Blending live action with animation, the film expressionistically imagines the final moments of Andrew Mynarski, a Canadian World War II airman who was posthumously awarded the Victoria Cross for saving the life of colleague Pat Brophy before plummeting to his death from their burning airplane.\n\nThe film was a shortlisted Canadian Screen Award nominee for Best Live Action Short Drama at the 4th Canadian Screen Awards, and a shortlisted Jutra Award nominee for Best Short Film at the 17th Jutra Awards,\n\n"}
{"id": "2525804", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2525804", "title": "Negligent homicide", "text": "Negligent homicide\n\nNegligent homicide is a criminal charge brought against a person who, through criminal negligence, allows another person to die.\n\nExamples include the crash of Aeroperu Flight 603 near Lima, Peru. The accident was caused by a piece of duct tape that was left over the static ports (on the bottom side of the fuselage) after cleaning the aircraft, which led to the crash. An employee had left the tape on and was charged with negligent homicide. Other times, an intentional killing may be negotiated down to the lesser charge as a compromised resolution of a murder case, as in the case of former UFC fighter Gerald Strebendt's intentional shooting of an unarmed man after a traffic altercation.\n\nIn the United States, all states define negligent homicide by statute, often defining the offense as involuntary manslaughter. Negligent homicide may be a lesser included offense to first and second degree murder, meaning that all of the elements of negligent homicide are elements of those more serious charges.\n\nIn some states, negligent homicide charges are possible following the killing of a person while driving under the influence of drugs or alcohol.\n\n"}
{"id": "17303474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17303474", "title": "Patterns of self-organization in ants", "text": "Patterns of self-organization in ants\n\nAnts are simple animals and their behavioural repertory is limited to somewhere between ten and forty elementary behaviours. This is an attempt to explain the different patterns of self-organization in ants.\n\nAnt colonies are self-organized systems: complex collective behaviors arise as the product of interactions between many individuals each following a simple set of rules, not via top-down instruction from elite individuals or the queen. No one worker has universal knowledge of the colony's needs; individual workers react only to their local environment. Because of this, ants are a popular source of inspiration for design in software engineering, robotics, industrial design, and other fields involving many simple parts working together to perform complex tasks.\n\nThe most popular current model of self-organization in ants and other social insects is the response threshold model. A threshold for a particular task is the amount of stimulus, such as a pheromone or interactions with other workers, necessary to cause the worker to perform the associated task. A higher threshold requires a stronger stimulus, and thus translates into less preference for performing a specific task. Different workers have different thresholds for different tasks, allowing certain workers to function as specialists that preferentially perform one or more tasks. Threshold levels can be affected by several factors: worker age, since workers frequently switch from within-nest work to outside-nest work with age; size, since larger workers often perform different tasks, such as defense or seed processing; caste; health, since injuries can encourage young workers to switch to outside-nest work earlier; or be randomly distributed. As demand for a task increases, so does the proportion of workers whose thresholds are met; as demand decreases, fewer workers' thresholds are met and fewer workers are allocated to that task. In this way, simple individual rules allow for the regulation of work on a large scale in diverse settings. This system can also evolve in response to different environments and life history strategies, leading to the immense variation observed in ants.\n\nThis is an instant transition of the whole system to a new stable pattern when a threshold is reached. Bifurcation is also known as multi-stability in which many stable states are possible.\n\nExamples of pattern types:\n\nOscillating patterns of activity in which individuals at different activity levels stimulate one another emerging from mutual activation.\n\nExamples of pattern types:\n\nTraveling waves of chemical concentration or mechanical deformation.\n\nExamples of pattern types:\n\nSelf-organized criticality is an abrupt disturbance in a system resulting from a buildup of events without external stimuli.\n\nExamples of pattern types:\n"}
{"id": "43390706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43390706", "title": "Pieter van Reede van Oudtshoorn", "text": "Pieter van Reede van Oudtshoorn\n\nBaron Pieter van Reede (or van Rheede) van Oudtshoorn (8 July 1714 – 23 January 1773) was a senior official and Governor designate of the Dutch Cape Colony. He was appointed Governor of the Cape Colony in 1772 to succeed the deceased Governor Ryk Tulbagh but died at sea on his way to the Cape Colony to take up his post. The Western Cape town of Oudtshoorn is named after him. He is the progenitor of the van R(h)eede van Oudtshoorn family in South Africa.\n\nBorn the son of a nobleman in Utrecht, van Reede van Oudtshoorn first arrived in the Cape Colony aboard \"de Duijff\" as an employee of the Dutch East India Company in 1741.\n\nIn 1743 then Cape Governor Hendrik Swellengrebel granted him land in the Table Mountain valley named Garden Oudtshoorn, bounded by Hof Street and Kloof Street in the present-day suburb of Gardens. After van Reede van Oudtshoorn's death the developed estate was subdivided into three separate properties named La Belle Alliance, Trafalgar and Mount Nelson where the Mount Nelson Hotel stands today.\n\nHe was fiscal independent from September 1741 to September 1762, and Secunde (deputy Governor) of the Cape Colony from December 1760 to April 1766 after Ryk Tulbagh had succeeded Swellengrebel as Governor. He returned to the Netherlands in 1766, but left his children in the Cape, and bought the Drakensteyn castle. He was later re-appointed to the vacant Secunde position in the Cape Colony and in 1772, following the arrival of news of Tulbagh's death before he had departed for the Cape Colony, appointed as Tulbagh's successor. However, he became ill and died at sea aboard \"Asia\" on his voyage to take up his post as Governor. His body was transported to Cape Town in a coffin he had carried aboard on the same voyage. On 17 April 1773 he was given a state funeral in Cape Town and buried at the Groote Kerk. After the church building was enlarged in 1841, the stone that had covered his grave was attached to the church's eastern wall. A print depicting his funeral procession is preserved in the Atlas van Stolk museum in Rotterdam.\n\nBaron Joachim van Plettenberg, who had been acting Governor since Tulbagh's death on 11 August 1771, was appointed Governor on 18 May 1774.\n\n\"The van Rheedes are one of the old families of Europe, descending from Bitter Van Reede, mentioned between 1344 and 1372, who himself was probably descendent of Wernerus de Rethe, knight, mentioned between 1223 and 1236. Godard VAN Reede (10th generation) accompanied William III of Orange to England and became Earl of Athlone on 14th March 1691 (branch extinct 7 Jan 1897). Another branch, Van Reede de Parkeren en Aa, became extinct in 1879. The Van R(h)eede van Oudsthoorns are, therefore, the only surviving branch of the family, both in the Netherlands and in South Africa. Van Ooudsthoorn was added to the original surname of Van Reede because for a period they were squires of that village in Holland.\n\nAfter the Napoleonic wars and the establishment of a monarchy in the Netherlands, the old nobility of the family, and the title of Baron, was confirmed by Royal Decrees of 2nd April and 14th June 1822.\"\n\nPieter was Lord of Oudshoorn, Ridderbuurt and Gnephoek, the only son of Barend Cornelis van Reede van Oudtshoorn (1690–1750) and his wife Catharina Cornelia van Eys. He was baptised in St Catherine's Cathedral, Utrecht on 10 July 1714. His father was the first to bear the surname van Reede van Oudtshoorn. Barend Cornelis was the only child of Pieter van Reede tot Nederhorst (1645–1692), Lord of Oudshoorn, Ridderbuurt and Gnephoek, and his wife Maria de Vlamingh van Outshoorn (1646–1732). Maria was the only child of Cornelis de Vlamingh van Outshoorn (1613–1688), Lord of Outshoorn and Gnephoek, and his wife Claesgen Hooft. The King of the Netherlands recognised the family's title of baron in 1822. Pieter was also the heir of William Ferdinand Carey, the 8th Baron Hunsdon, son of William Carey and Maria de Vlamingh van Outshoorn's sister Geertruida.\n\nOn 18 January 1741 in Den Bosch Pieter married Sophia Catharina Boesses, who was born to a military officer in 1720 in Bergen op Zoom, after living together since 1736. They departed for the Cape Colony on 7 May 1741. Some of their children settled in the Cape Colony, including their son William Ferdinand (1755–1822) who also worked for the Dutch East India Company. Following the British occupation the independently wealthy William Ferdinand, who had been a senior official of the Cape Colony before the occupation, refused to swear allegiance to the British Crown.\n\nIn 1782, Pieter's then 61-year-old widow was the subject of a scandal in the Cape Colony when she attempted unsuccessfully to withdraw her inheritance and elope with a 20-year-old soldier. She died in Cape Town in 1791.\n\nIn 1858, Ernestina Johanna Geesje, William Ferdinand's daughter and Pieter's granddaughter, married Egbertus Bergh, a magistrate of the Western Cape town of George. Bergh was one of the founding fathers of the Western Cape town of Oudtshoorn, which was named in honour of his wife's distinguished grandfather. The coat of arms of the local municipality is based on the Dutch family's coat of arms. Oudtshoorn is a twin town of Alphen aan den Rijn in the Netherlands which incorporates the historic Dutch villages of Oudshoorn, Ridderbuurt and Gnephoek.\n\n"}
{"id": "42104047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42104047", "title": "Pithovirus", "text": "Pithovirus\n\nPithovirus, first described in a 2014 paper, is a genus of giant virus known from one species, Pithovirus sibericum, which infects amoebas. It is a double-stranded DNA virus, and is a member of the nucleocytoplasmic large DNA viruses clade. The 2014 discovery was made when a viable specimen was found in a 30,000-year-old ice core harvested from permafrost in Siberia, Russia.\n\nThe genus name \"Pithovirus\", a reference to large storage containers of ancient Greece known as pithoi, was chosen to describe the new species. A specimen of \"Pithovirus\" measures approximately 1.5 µm (1500 nm) in length and 0.5 µm (500 nm) in diameter, making it the largest virus yet found. It is 50% larger in size than the Pandoraviridae, the previous largest known viruses, is larger than \"Ostreococcus\" the smallest eukaryotic cell, although \"Pandoravirus\" has the largest viral genome, containing 1.9 to 2.5 megabases of DNA.\n\n\"Pithovirus\" has a thick, oval wall with an opening at one end. Internally, its structure resembles a honeycomb.\n\nThe genome of \"Pithovirus\" contains 467 distinct genes, more than a typical virus but far fewer than the 2556 putative protein-coding sequences found in \"Pandoravirus\". Thus, its genome is far less densely packed than any other known virus. Two-thirds of its proteins are unlike those of other viruses. Despite the physical similarity with \"Pandoravirus\", the \"Pithovirus\" genome sequence reveals that it is barely related to that virus, but more closely resembles members of \"Marseilleviridae\", \"Megaviridae\", and \"Iridoviridae\". These families all contain large icosahedral viruses with DNA genomes. The \"Pithovirus\" genome has 36% GC-content, similar to the \"Megaviridae\", in contrast to greater than 61% for pandoraviruses.\n\n\"Pithovirus\"' genome is one circular, double-stranded DNA (dsDNA) chromosome of about 610,000 base pairs (bp), encoding approximately 467 open reading frames (ORFs), which translate into 467 different proteins. The genome encodes all the proteins needed to produce mRNA; these proteins are present in the purified virions. \"Pithovirus\" therefore undergoes its entire replication cycle in its host's cytoplasm, rather than the more typical method of taking over the host's nucleus.\n\n\"Pithovirus sibericum\" was discovered in a 30,000-year-old sample of Siberian permafrost by Chantal Abergel and Jean-Michel Claverie of Aix-Marseille University. The virus was discovered buried below the surface of a late Pleistocene sediment. It was found when riverbank samples collected in 2000 were exposed to amoebas. The amoebas started dying and when examined were found to contain giant virus specimens. The authors said they got the idea to probe permafrost samples for new viruses after reading about an experiment that revived a similar aged seed of \"Silene stenophylla\" two years earlier. The \"Pithovirus\" findings were published in the \"Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences\" in March 2014.\n\nAlthough the virus is harmless to humans, its viability after being frozen for millennia has raised concerns that global climate change and tundra drilling operations could lead to previously undiscovered and potentially pathogenic viruses being unearthed. However, other scientists dispute that this scenario poses a real threat.\n\nThe rate of mutation of the genome has been estimated to be 2.23 × 10 subsitutions/site/year. The authors have suggested that these viruses evolved at least hundreds of thousands of years ago.\n\nA second virus in this genus, \"Pithovirus massiliensis\", has been isolated. Comparison of the genes between the two species suggests a mutation rate of 3 x 10 per life.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1432111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1432111", "title": "Samuel John Mills", "text": "Samuel John Mills\n\nSamuel John Mills Jr. (April 12, 1783 – June 16, 1818) was an American missionary. Born at Torringford (now part of Torrington), Connecticut, his father was Congregational minister Samuel John Mills (1768–1833) and mother was Esther Robbins. \nHe attended Williams College in Massachusetts and there organized the prayer group that held the Haystack prayer meeting. He entered Andover Theological Seminary in 1810, and was licensed to preach in 1812. While he was one of the group that led to the formation of the American Board of Commissioners for Foreign Missions his missionary service was confined to the Mississippi valley. He suggested the formation of a National Bible Society. In May, 1816, thirty-five different bible societies met at New York and organized the American Bible Society. He also played a leading role in the formation of the American Colonization Society in 1817.\n\nIn 1818, following a brief stay in England, he sailed to the west coast of Africa to purchase land for the American Colonization Society, then embarked for the United States on May 22, and died at sea. His associate, Dr. Robert Finley, the founder of the \"National Colonization Society\" had died in 1817. His niece Julia Sherman Mills (1817–1890) married missionary Samuel C. Damon (1815–1885), whose son Samuel Mills Damon (1841–1924) became a wealthy banker.\n\n"}
{"id": "1015662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1015662", "title": "Sauron (comics)", "text": "Sauron (comics)\n\nSauron is a fictional character, a supervillain appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. An enemy of the X-Men, Sauron is the alter ego of physician Karl Lykos. In his initial appearances Karl Lykos was portrayed as an evil man and Sauron was simply Lykos in a different physical form, but later stories increasingly depicted Sauron as sharing a Jekyll and Hyde relationship with Lykos. He is an energy vampire who resembles a humanoid \"Pteranodon\" after feeding. He often inhabits the hidden prehistoric jungle of the Savage Land.\n\nThe character was created by writer Roy Thomas and artist Neal Adams, though the two differ in their accounts of which of them were responsible for specific aspects of the character. He first fully appeared as Sauron in \"X-Men\" #60 (September 1969).\n\nThomas and Adams originally envisioned Sauron as a bat-like creature, but when they consulted with the Comics Code Authority, they were told that an energy vampire with a bat body might fall under the Code's prohibition on the use of vampires. To get around this problem, Thomas and Adams tweaked his appearance to that of the most bat-like animal they could think of—a pterodactyl—which in turn led them to have Sauron inhabit the hidden prehistoric jungle of the Savage Land.\n\nKarl Lykos was the son of an explorer's guide. As a teenager, he accompanied his father to Tierra del Fuego as the elder Lykos guided a wealthy client named Mr. Anderssen and Anderssen's young daughter, Tanya. While defending Tanya from mutant pterodactyls, Karl was bitten by one of the creatures. During his recovery, he discovered that he could now drain the life-force of other organisms. He found himself repeatedly tempted to use his new power, feeling that he needed to drain life energy from other humans or animals to survive.\n\nWhen Karl's father died, Mr. Anderssen took Karl into his home in thanks for rescuing Tanya. As the years passed, Karl and Tanya fell in love, but Tanya's wealthy father would not allow her to date Karl because of his lack of wealth. In an effort to win Mr. Anderssen's support, Karl went to medical school and became a physician, geneticist, and hypnotherapist. He treated patients through hypnosis, but secretly robbed them of energy at the same time.\n\nDr. Lykos became a colleague of Professor Charles Xavier, and first encountered the X-Men when they sought treatment for Havok. Absorbing Havok's mutant energy transformed him into a vampiric, pterodactyl-like monster with human intelligence and superhuman hypnotic powers. He named himself Sauron, after J.R.R. Tolkien's villain (also reminiscent of the word \"saurus\", Latin for lizard), and battled the X-Men, as a would-be conqueror. When he realized that his transformation would threaten Tanya, he fled to Tierra del Fuego. Without energy to absorb, Sauron turned back into Karl. When Tanya tracked him down, Karl threw himself off a cliff to avoid harming her.\n\nKarl was presumed dead, but had survived unconscious on a ledge below. He journeyed to the Savage Land and survived in human form by only draining less developed animals. He befriended Ka-Zar and used his medical skills over many months to care for Ka-Zar's allies. But when several X-Men were stranded in the Savage Land, Lykos was overwhelmed with the desire to absorb the powerful life energy of mutants. He transformed into Sauron once again after absorbing Storm's energy. He reverted to human form during a battle with the X-Men, and Ka-Zar explained that Lykos was an ally.\n\nTanya learned that Karl had survived the leap from the cliff. She joined Angel and Peter Parker on a journey to find Karl in the Savage Land. They found Karl, however the Savage Land Mutates used a Genetic Transformer to mutate Angel, Spider-Man and Tanya into animal-like forms. The destruction of the machine forced Lykos to drain energy from the three in an attempt to restore their true forms. Although his gambit succeeded, he subsequently reverted to his Sauron form and joined the Mutates and Zaladane. The X-Men traveled to the Savage Land, and Sauron helped to capture them. However, the X-Men escaped and defeated Sauron and the Mutates. They brought Lykos back to the United States, and at the X-Mansion Professor X seemingly cured Lykos of his condition. Karl and Tanya decided to resume their relationship and a normal life.\n\nLykos was again transformed into Sauron when the Toad used a device of his own design to force Lykos to drain the life energy of Tanya, which killed her in the process. Sauron then joined the Toad's Brotherhood of Evil Mutants, despite the fact that he is not a mutant. Alongside them, he battled X-Force, and slew Cannonball. Sauron was apparently shot dead by Cable, and his body was thrown by Cable to the Morlocks. Sauron was later revealed to have survived the gunshot wound, and battled X-Factor. Sauron went on to menace the X-Men and other heroes on a number of occasions.\n\nLater, Sauron had the Savage Land Mutates kidnap Havok, hoping to use his energy to satiate his hunger. When his teammates Cyclops, Phoenix, and Polaris came to the rescue, Sauron had both Summers brothers placed in an energy-transferring machine, and the mix of energy mutated Sauron even further, making him larger and stronger than ever. Phoenix tried to engage Sauron on the Astral Plane, but it was Lykos' personality who prevailed, making a suicide leap into the abyss of his own mind, taking his hated alter ego with him. As a result, Sauron's mind appeared to be stuck in an animalistic state.\n\nSauron became a prisoner of the Weapon X program jumpstarted by director Malcolm Colcord. Being held there against his will, Sauron started up a revolution with fellow agent Brent Jackson and dethroned Colcord as director, giving that position to Jackson. Sauron in return became a more powerful villain on the team, but vanished after Weapon X rival John Sublime launched an attack on Weapon X, and the group had to go underground.\n\nAfter being imprisoned in the Raft for refusing to participate in any more Weapon X assignments, Sauron escaped during a jailbreak concocted by the Skrulls. For a time the Avengers believed he and the Mutates were responsible for the breakout, and pursued him to the Savage Land. Sauron and his allies there briefly held the new team of Avengers hostage, but the team freed itself thanks to Iron Man's voice-activated armor, and were about to interrogate him, when he was shot through the head by the second Black Widow. Sauron had absorbed Wolverine's regenerative healing factor and recovered from his injury, just in time to be soundly defeated by the New Avengers. He was taken back into custody, but not before returning the favor to Black Widow by burning her with his fiery breath. Sauron was placed in S.H.I.E.L.D. custody and Maria Hill planned to return him to Weapon X.\n\nSauron allied with Ka-Zar, Shanna the She-Devil, Zabu, and the natives when the Skrulls were invading the Savage Land. Sauron was among the villains analyzed by Quasimodo for Norman Osborn. Sauron later had a fight with Wolverine.\n\nAmphibius later tells Sauron and the other Savage Land Mutates that Magneto's Asteroid M has risen from the sea, but they didn't want to go find him. Worm took control of Barbarus, Lupo, and Sauron and commandeered a ship to go find Magneto. When threatened by the Japanese military, Sauron attacked an armored car, causing an international incident. Cannonball, Sunspot and Warlock investigated and found the Savage Land Mutates on the deck of the ship. Cannonball managed to defeat Sauron while the other New Mutants defeated the Savage Land Mutates. Upon learning why the Savage Land Mutates were on the ship, Karma told Worm, Sauron, Barbarus and Lupo that they were in charge of Asteroid M and Magneto. Worm then orders the Savage Land Mutates to return to the Savage Land.\n\nUpon becoming the new leader of the Japanese underworld, Sabretooth held a party that Sauron attended with other enemies of Wolverine. Wolverine arrived and beat them up.\n\nKade Kilgore of the seventh incarnation of the Hellfire Club recruited Sauron to become a staff member at the Hellfire Academy.\n\nSauron later collaborates with Stegron in a plan to turn humanity into dinosaurs where they fought Spider-Man and the mutant students from the Jean Grey School for Higher Learning. The duo's plans are unraveled by their own infighting, purposely exacerbated by their mutual attraction to Shark Girl, who caused their powers to neutralize each other.\n\nLykos returns working in a military laboratory to enhance his powers, until one of his colleagues is contacted by the Scarlet Spider. Now able to store mutant energy to trigger his transformations at will, Lykos turns into Sauron and attacks the vigilante, but although he wounds the man the Spider came to the base to collect, Sauron is defeated and webbed up to be taken away.\n\nIn human form Karl Lykos is a normal human, although an accomplished medical doctor, geneticist, and psychotherapist employing hypnotism. He possesses an M.D. and Ph.D. in genetics and psychology.\n\nAs the result of mutation through infection with a genetic virus by mutant pteranodons, Lykos gained the ability to absorb the life forces of other living things into his body. When Lykos absorbs the energies of superhuman mutants, he transforms into Sauron, and gains a portion of that mutant's powers temporarily. Lykos' Sauron form resembles a large crested pteranodon, extinct except in the Savage Land. Unlike true pteranodons, Sauron has a toothed beak and orange eyes and a basically humanoid build, with legs as long as a human being's. Sauron has a wingspread of twelve feet, and razor-sharp claws on his hands and feet. In Sauron form he has superhuman strength, speed, intelligence, stamina, and durability and is capable of flight. Sauron has to absorb the life energies from living victims to sustain his life. He would revert to human form if he didn't regularly absorb the life force from superhuman beings. The Toad's technology could transform Lykos into Sauron by draining life energy from Tayna Andersson, who is apparently not superhuman.\n\nLykos also has a powerful hypnotic ability that requires direct eye contact to complete. He frequently uses his hypnotic power to give his victims terrifying delusions that allies have become monsters. He can also mentally enslave people to do his bidding, although his control is not perfect, as Portal is resistant to his commands.\n\nDue to manipulation by the Weapon X program, Sauron can expel the life force energy in concussive bursts from his hands.\n\nAt some point prior to his New Avengers appearances, he acquires an additional ability to breathe fire, which he uses to burn the second Black Widow in revenge for shooting him.\n\nBy the time he confronts the Scarlet Spider, Lykos has developed his powers to the point where he can essentially store mutant energy to trigger his transformation into Sauron without the need for contact with mutants.\n\nIn the \"Age of Apocalypse\" universe, Sauron, redubbed Soaron is a more heroic figure, though he is extremely bad-tempered and reclusive, and he is never seen in human form. He is a member of Forge's group of Outcasts alongside Forge, Toad, Brute, Sonique, Mastermind and Nate Grey. The group traveled the countryside posing as a circus troupe, protected by Mastermind's illusions, in order to keep attention away from them while Forge trained Nate. Soaron would often make sarcastic remarks about the situations the group found themselves in, and constantly referred to Nate as a \"whelp\". In a mission where the group rescued a large number of humans from a prison train, one of Soaron's wings was seared off, grounding him. He bitterly remarked about this to Forge later, demanding to know if his wing was enough reason to avoid suicidal missions. When Domino and her team attacked the group, Soaron was noticeably absent, but after Nate went to challenge Mister Sinister, who had been hiding with the team attempting to manipulate Nate, Soaron and Sonique, the only survivors, arrived on the scene to save the young mutant. Nate accepted that he must challenge Apocalypse, and told Soaron to look after Sonique. Soaron replied by somewhat fondly advising him, \"Don't concern yourself with us, just worry about yourself, whelp.\"\n\nWhen the Age of Apocalypse was revisited, Soaron appeared along with Sonique, Cloak and Dagger, Blob, and a revived Jean Grey as a member of Sinister's team known as the Sinister Six, a group meant to aid Sinister in destroying the X-Men. It is revealed that Sinister apparently still in the guise of Essex approached both Soaron and Sonique, and with Jean Grey's assistance, brainwashed them into becoming members of his new team - the Sinister Six. When the Sinister Six met the X-Men in battle, Soaron failed in his attempt to kill Magneto. At the last moment, Quicksilver prevented his father's death by sacrificing himself. Enraged at the sight of his dead son, Magneto used his powers to thrust the Silver Samurai's sword straight through Soaron, killing him.\n\nIn the \"Earth X\" universe, Beast claims that, after accidentally killing Gambit with a kiss, Rogue sought to rid herself of her powers through Sauron's draining abilities, but ended up losing her life as well.\n\nIn the \"House of M\" universe, Sauron became a member of Magneto's palace guard on Genosha. He takes part in the battle against the heroes whose memories have been restored.\n\nIn the mini-series \"Wolverine and Power Pack\", Sauron was the first villain faced by Logan and the Power children. The kids would have succumbed to Sauron's mind control without Wolverine's assistance.\n\n\n\nSauron was ranked #17 on a listing of Marvel Comics' monster characters in 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "44705094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44705094", "title": "Ship burial in Asia", "text": "Ship burial in Asia\n\nA ship burial or boat-shaped burial is a burial in which the coffin or container of the dead is shaped like a boat. At times, the container of the dead is boat-shaped in itself, and sometimes grave goods shaped like boats are also present in the burial site. This kind of burial was common among Germanic peoples, including the Vikings and Scandinavians. But archaeological evidence has shown the presence of these kinds of burials in both mainland and insular Southeast Asia and East Asia.\n\nThe Bo people China's Sichuan and Yunnan provinces are known for their hanging coffins.\n\nThe ancestors of the Bo people were instrumental in helping the Western Zhou overthrow the ruling Yin at the end of the Shang dynasty. Apart from this, the Bo people differed from other ethnic minorities in China through their burial traditions. Instead of the more common burial on the ground, the coffins of the Bo people were found hanging on cliffs. These coffins were also boat-shaped. Grave goods found in the coffins included blue and white porcelain bowls dated back from the Ming dynasty, iron knife, another smaller knife and two iron spear points. The Bo people were massacred by the Imperial Army in the later years of the Ming dynasty, and those who survived changed their names in order to escape oppression. Scenes of the typical daily life of the Bo people can also be seen through the cliff and wall paintings they have left behind.\n\nIn the area of Sichuan several boat-shaped coffins have been found and dated to the Eastern Zhou Period (770–255 BC). The tombs also contains a big amount of ritual objects.\n\nA boat-shaped coffin was found in Japan during the construction of the Kita Ward of Nagoya. This coffin was found to be older than any other previously found in Japan. Another boat-shaped coffin was found in the tomb of the Ohoburo Minami Kofun-gun in Northern Kyoto, dated to the latter half of the Yayoi Period (4 B.C.-4 A.D.). The tomb contained grave goods including a cobalt blue glass bangle, an iron bangle, and several iron swords. Boat-shaped coffins called haniwa were more common during the Kofun period, and these coffins were seen in paintings along with the representation of the sun, moon, and the stars. This suggests the ritual symbols associated with boats even in Japan.\n\nThe Dong Son culture in Vietnam is known by archaeologists due to a great concentration of boat-shaped coffins. 171 boat-shaped coffins were recovered from 44 sites in Vietnam, and most of these were found from Dong Son sites. Some of these burials included carefully arranged grave goods inside the coffin along with the corpse of the dead. Also, the coffins were found strategically close to water, either rivers or small streams of sea.\n\nThere are numerous burial sites in the Philippines that include boat burials and boat-shaped burials. In fact, present-day coffins in the Philippines still resemble canoes made from hollowed out logs. There are two famous sites of burials, the jar burials in Batanes and in Catanauan.The burial markers in Batanes are shaped like a boat, with the bow and stern appearing prominently. The markers were made from stone, and were made to appear like the outline of the traditional boat \"tataya\". Inspection of the Chuhangin and Nakamaya sites in Batanes reveals that the markers were oriented in a Northwest-Southeast direction. Principal site investigators also discovered that the bow of the markers pointed towards the sea. But apparently, when the storms cease to pound on the islands of Batanes, the bow of the boats align with the appearance of the band of the Milky Way Galaxy. This further increases the possibility that the burials were made to align with the cosmos in belief that the boats will carry the dead to the heavens and the stars.\n\nSome 1500 kilometers from Batanes, the Tuhian beach in Catanauan, Quezon lies another boat-shaped burial site. The boats in Catanauan are also oriented in a Northwest-Southeast direction, with the bow pointing towards the sea. The only difference is that the markers in Batanes were made from andesite and limestone, while those present in Catanauan were made from coral slabs. Also, while the markers in Batanes contained a single burial, the Catanauan markers were multiple burials.\n\nThe alignment of both of these burial sites served as evidence that people from both sites believed in the idea of the afterlife. Also, the boats were thought as a vessel for “sailing” to the heavens and the stars. This belief is a widespread idea all around the world, as we know from different burial sites all throughout Europe, the Americas and Asia.\n\nAnother burial site in Bohol was observed by the Spanish during the 16th century One account of the burial states:\n\n“In some places, they kill slaves and bury them with their masters in order to serve them in the afterlife, this practice is carried out to the extent that many load a ship with more than sixty slaves, fill it up with food and drink, place the dead on board, and the entire vessel including live slaves buried in the earth (Quirino and Garcia, 1958)”\n\nPerhaps the most famous boat-shaped burial found in the Philippines is the Manunggul Jar. The jars were excavated from a Neolithic burial site in Manunggul cave of Tabon Caves at Lipuun Point at Palawan. The jars were found to be from 890–710 B.C. The main feature of the Manunggul jar is the two human figures seated on a boat at the top handle of its cover. The figures represent the journey of the soul to the afterlife, with another figure serving as his oarsman.\n\nThe burial jar with a cover featuring a ship-of-the-dead […] is perhaps unrivaled in Southeast Asia; the work of an artist and master potter. This vessel provides a clear example of a cultural link between the archaeological past and the ethnographic present. The boatman […] is steering rather than paddling the “ship”. The mast of the boat was not recovered. Both figures appear to be wearing bands tied over the crowns of their heads and under their jaws; a pattern still found in burial practices among the indigenous peoples in the Southern Philippines. The manner in which the hands of the front figure are folded across the chest is also a widespread practice in the islands when arranging the corpse.\n\nThe carved prow and the eye motif of the spirit boat is\nstill found on the traditional watercraft of the Sulu Archipelago, Borneo, and\nMalaysia. Similarities in the execution of the ears, eyes, nose, and mouth of\nthe figures may be seen today in the wood carving of Taiwan, the Philippines,\nand elsewhere in Southeast Asia.\n\n"}
{"id": "47949651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47949651", "title": "Tea and toast syndrome", "text": "Tea and toast syndrome\n\nTea and toast syndrome is a form of malnutrition commonly experienced by elderly people who are unable to prepare meals and tend to themselves. Their diets often dwindle to tea and toast resulting in a deficiency of vitamins and other nutrients. The syndrome often manifests itself as hyponatremia, a low concentration of the electrolyte sodium in the bloodstream, due to the lack of salt in the diet. \n\nThe syndrome often occurs once children have moved away, and a partner has died or is dying. An elderly person with nobody left to cook for, or without the skills to cook, will revert to a diet of simple foods such as bread, cheese and crackers, and tinned foods. According to the New York Times, as many as 60% of seniors living at home are either malnourished or at risk of becoming malnourished. In addition to the problems lack of nutrients will cause, this state also means that the complications of other illnesses, even the common cold, can be much more severe.\n\nFactors that lead to the syndrome include social isolation, psychological issues such as depression, illness, and physical limitations. Though less of a factor than psychological issues, the increased number of medications often taken by elderly people can also affect eating habits. These medications may suppress appetite, make food taste different, or affect how nutrients are absorbed, making it even less likely seniors will get the required nutrients. Typical laboratory findings for tea and toast syndrome include a low serum osmolality (hypotonicity) with a normal urine osmolality since antidiuretic hormone levels are normal. \n\nBeer potomania\n"}
{"id": "45059323", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45059323", "title": "Unnao dead bodies row", "text": "Unnao dead bodies row\n\nOn 14 January 2015, more than one hundred unidentified dead bodies were found floating in the River Ganges in Unnao district in the Indian state of Uttar Pradesh. The dead bodies are believed to be of mostly unmarried girls and children. They were later buried at the riverbank.\n\nThe bodies, which were mostly of children and unmarried girls, were first noticed on 14 January 2015 by some villagers at Ganga Ghat Shuklaganj balu ghat in Unnao district when crows and dogs were feeding on them. The area was cordoned off by officials and 104 dead bodies were retrieved from the river. Samples were taken for forensic DNA profiling, as, according to officials, postmortem was not possible. Without going for cremation the dead bodies were buried at the riverbank. On the same day, six more dead bodies were found floating in the river and retrieved from the neighbouring district of Jhansi. \n\nOne of the explanations given by the officials was that since the river had changed its course due to the construction of a new barrage, the water level became lower and the bodies surfaced. A magisterial enquiry was ordered by the then Chief Minister of Uttar Pradesh Akhilesh Yadav to uncover the facts of the incident. The chairperson of Bahujan Samaj Party, Mayawati, demanded CBI enquiry into the incident and said that it \"has infused fear among people\". Azam Khan, a cabinet minister in Uttar Pradesh government, has accused Sakshi Maharaj of being responsible for the incident; \n\nThe dead bodies were found floating in a canal at Ganga Ghat Shuklaganj balu ghat, which connects to the Ganges and is 60 km southwest from Lucknow, the state capital of Uttar Pradesh and 30 km northeast from Kanpur.\n\nThe Ganges River is regarded as a holy river by Hindus and many crematory ghats are on its banks. Police officials of Unnao have offered an explanation that the bodies were of \"people who were dumped in the river or buried on the banks after their families could not afford a proper cremation.\"\n"}
{"id": "52471270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52471270", "title": "Wild Field (wilderness reserve)", "text": "Wild Field (wilderness reserve)\n\nWild Field ( \"Dikoe pole\") is a 300 ha (740 ac) nature reserve near the city of Tula in Tula Oblast in the European part of Russia, approximately 250 km (150 mi) south of Moscow. It was established in 2012 by Russian scientists Sergey Zimov and Nikita Zimov as a companion to Pleistocene Park in Siberia.\n\nUnlike Pleistocene Park, Wild Field’s primary purpose is not scientific research but public outreach, i.e. it will provide a model of what an unregulated steppe ecosystem looked like before the advent of humans. It is situated near a federal road and a railway station and is accessible to the general public.\n\nWild Field comprises 300 ha (740 ac) of which at first 150 ha were fenced off and stocked with animals. In 2017 the fenced area was increased to 280 hectares.\n\nThe area of the reserve will be increased to 500 ha in 2018/2019. For the future, plans call for a continuous increase of the area in relation to the increasing population of animals in the reserve.\n\nIntroduced between 2012 and 2015 were\nThe total number of large herbivores in Wild Field Park numbered around 150 in April 2015.\n\nIn 2016, several wild boars (\"Sus scrofa\") and a female elk/moose (\"Alces alces\") entered the reserve through special one-way entrances built into the fences. Several young wild boar/domestic pig hybrids (\"Sus scrofa × domesticus\") have also been purchased to be released into the park upon maturing.\n\nIn 2017, four reindeer (\"Rangifer tarandus\") and 73 domestic Pridonskaya goats (a strain of \"Capra aegagrus hircus\") were added.\n\nA herd of 20 plains bison (\"Bison bison bison\") which was to be delivered in March 2014 by the True Nature Foundation, a European organization for ecological restoration and rewilding, could not be imported due to a blanket import ban on cattle from countries affected by the Schmallenberg virus.\n\nThe introduction of a test group of camels (\"Camelus spec.\") is under consideration. Further plans call for the introduction of bison, saiga antelopes, vultures, bobak marmots and speckled ground squirrels.\n\n"}
{"id": "41061373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41061373", "title": "William Bell (artist)", "text": "William Bell (artist)\n\nWilliam Bell, born about 1734/5, was an English portrait painter originally from Newcastle upon Tyne. In around 1768 he moved to London, to be a student in the Royal Academy of Arts. While there, in the year of 1771, he received a gold medal for his painting of Venus entreating Vulcan to forge arms for her son Æneas. William Bell's best-known works were the portraits painted for the family of Delaval, of Seaton Delaval Hall. These paintings earned Bell the patronage of Lord Delaval, and in 1775 he exhibited two views of Delaval Hall. A portrait he painted of Robert Harrison, 1715-1802, is displayed in the National Portrait Gallery, London. William Bell died on 8 June 1794 and was buried on 10 June, in St Andrew's Church, Newcastle upon Tyne; his death was reported in the \"Newcastle Courant\" (14 June 1794) thus: \"DIED, Sunday morning, Mr William Bell, an eminent Portrait Painter, whose memory will be esteemed at long as his animated productions remain, many of which bear testimony to his abilities in this part of the kingdom\".\n"}
{"id": "33718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33718", "title": "William Faulkner", "text": "William Faulkner\n\nWilliam Cuthbert Faulkner (; September 25, 1897 – July 6, 1962) was an American writer and Nobel Prize laureate from Oxford, Mississippi. Faulkner wrote novels, short stories, screenplays, poetry, essays, and a play. He is primarily known for his novels and short stories set in the fictional Yoknapatawpha County, based on Lafayette County, Mississippi, where he spent most of his life.\n\nFaulkner is one of the most celebrated writers in American literature generally and Southern literature specifically. Though his work was published as early as 1919, and largely during the 1920s and 1930s, Faulkner was not widely known until receiving the 1949 Nobel Prize in Literature, for which he became the only Mississippi-born Nobel winner. Two of his works, \"A Fable\" (1954) and his last novel \"The Reivers\" (1962), won the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction. In 1998, the Modern Library ranked his 1929 novel \"The Sound and the Fury\" sixth on its list of the 100 best English-language novels of the 20th century; also on the list were \"As I Lay Dying\" (1930) and \"Light in August\" (1932). \"Absalom, Absalom!\" (1936) appears on similar lists. \n\nBorn William Cuthbert Falkner in New Albany, Mississippi, William Faulkner was the first of four sons of Murry Cuthbert Falkner (August 17, 1870 – August 7, 1932) and Maud Butler (November 27, 1871 – October 16, 1960). He had three younger brothers: Murry Charles \"Jack\" Falkner (June 26, 1899 – December 24, 1975), author John Faulkner (September 24, 1901 – March 28, 1963), and Dean Swift Falkner (August 15, 1907 – November 10, 1935).\n\nSoon after his first birthday, his family moved to Ripley, Mississippi, where his father Murry worked as the treasurer for the family-owned Gulf & Chicago Railroad Company. Murry hoped to inherit the railroad from his father, John Wesley Thompson Falkner, but John had little confidence in Murry's ability to run a business and sold it for $75,000. Following the sale of the railroad business, Murry proposed a plan to get a new start for his family by moving to Texas and becoming a rancher. Maud disagreed with this proposition, however, and they moved instead to Oxford, Mississippi, where Murry's father owned several businesses, making it easy for Murry to find work. Thus, four days prior to William's fifth birthday, the Falkner family settled in Oxford, where he lived on and off for the rest of his life.\n\nHis family, particularly his mother Maud, his maternal grandmother Lelia Butler, and Caroline \"Callie\" Barr (the African American nanny who raised him from infancy) crucially influenced the development of Faulkner's artistic imagination. Both his mother and grandmother were avid readers as well as painters and photographers, educating him in visual language. While Murry enjoyed the outdoors and encouraged his sons to hunt, track, and fish, Maud valued education and took pleasure in reading and going to church. She taught her sons to read before sending them to public school and exposed them to classics such as Charles Dickens and Grimms' Fairy Tales.\n\nFaulkner's lifelong education by Callie Barr is central to his novels' preoccupations with the politics of sexuality and race.\n\nAs a schoolchild, Faulkner had success early on. He excelled in the first grade, skipped the second, and did well through the third and fourth grades. However, beginning somewhere in the fourth and fifth grades of his schooling, Faulkner became a much quieter and more withdrawn child. He began to play hooky occasionally and became somewhat indifferent to his schoolwork, instead taking interest in studying the history of Mississippi on his own time beginning in the seventh grade. The decline of his performance in school continued, and Faulkner wound up repeating the eleventh and twelfth grade, never graduating from high school.\n\nFaulkner spent his boyhood listening to stories told to him by his elders including those of the Civil War, slavery, the Ku Klux Klan, and the Falkner family. Faulkner's grandfather would also tell him of the exploits of William's great-grandfather and namesake, William Clark Falkner, who was a successful businessman, writer, and Civil War hero. Telling stories about \"Old Colonel\", as his family called him, had already become something of a family pastime when Faulkner was a boy. According to one of Faulkner's biographers, by the time William was born, his great-grandfather had \"been enshrined long since as a household deity.\"\n\nWhen he was 17, Faulkner met Philip Stone, who became an important early influence on his writing. Stone was four years his senior and came from one of Oxford's older families; he was passionate about literature and had already earned bachelor's degrees from Yale and the University of Mississippi. Faulkner also attended the latter, joined the Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity, and pursued his dream to become a writer. Stone read and was impressed by some of Faulkner's early poetry, becoming one of the first to recognize and encourage Faulkner's talent. Stone mentored the young Faulkner, introducing him to the works of writers such as James Joyce, who influenced Faulkner's own writing. In his early 20s, Faulkner gave poems and short stories he had written to Stone in hopes of their being published. Stone would in turn send these to publishers, but they were uniformly rejected.\n\nThe younger Faulkner was greatly influenced by the history of his family and the region in which he lived. Mississippi marked his sense of humor, his sense of the tragic position of \"black and white\" Americans, his characterization of Southern characters, and his timeless themes, including fiercely intelligent people dwelling behind the façades of good ol' boys and simpletons. Unable to join the United States Army due to his height (he was 5' 5½\"), Faulkner enlisted in a reservist unit of the British Army in Toronto. Despite his claims, records indicate that Faulkner was never actually a member of the British Royal Flying Corps and never saw service during the First World War.\n\nIn 1918, Faulkner's surname went from \"Falkner\" to Faulkner. According to one story, a careless typesetter simply made an error. When the misprint appeared on the title page of his first book, Faulkner was asked whether he wanted the change. He supposedly replied, \"Either way suits me.\"\n\nIn adolescence, Faulkner began writing poetry almost exclusively. He did not write his first novel until 1925. His literary influences are deep and wide. He once stated that he modeled his early writing on the Romantic era in late 18th- and early 19th-century England. He attended the University of Mississippi (\"Ole Miss\") in Oxford, enrolling in 1919, going three semesters before dropping out in November 1920.\n\nWilliam was able to attend classes at the university because his father had a job there as a business manager. He skipped classes often and received a \"D\" grade in English. However, some of his poems were published in campus publications.\n\nAlthough Faulkner is identified with Mississippi, he was residing in New Orleans, Louisiana, in 1925 when he wrote his first novel, \"Soldiers' Pay.\" After being directly influenced by Sherwood Anderson, he made his first attempt at fiction writing. Anderson assisted in the publication of \"Soldiers' Pay\" and \"Mosquitoes\", Faulkner's second novel, set in New Orleans, by recommending them to his publisher.\nThe miniature house at 624 Pirate's Alley, just around the corner from St. Louis Cathedral in New Orleans, is now the site of Faulkner House Books, where it also serves as the headquarters of the Pirate's Alley Faulkner Society.\n\nDuring the summer of 1927, Faulkner wrote his first novel set in his fictional Yoknapatawpha County, titled \"Flags in the Dust.\" This novel drew heavily on the traditions and history of the South, in which Faulkner had been engrossed in his youth. He was extremely proud of the novel upon its completion and he believed it to be a significant step up from his previous two novels. However, when submitted for publication, it was rejected by the publishers Boni & Liveright. Faulkner was devastated by this rejection, but he eventually allowed his literary agent, Ben Wasson, to significantly edit the text, and the novel was published in 1929 as \"Sartoris.\" (The original version was issued as \"Flags in the Dust\" in 1973.)\n\nIn the autumn of 1928, just after his 31st birthday, he began working on \"The Sound and the Fury\". He started by writing three short stories about a group of children with the last name Compson, but soon began to feel that the characters he had created might be better suited for a full-length novel. Perhaps as a result of disappointment in the initial rejection of \"Flags in the Dust\", Faulkner had now become indifferent to his publishers and wrote this novel in a much more experimental style. In describing the writing process for this work, Faulkner would later say, \"One day I seemed to shut the door between me and all publisher's addresses and book lists. I said to myself, 'Now I can write.'\" After its completion, Faulkner insisted that Ben Wasson not do any editing or add any punctuation for clarity.\n\nIn 1929, Faulkner married Estelle Oldham, Andrew Kuhn serving as best man at the wedding. Estelle brought with her two children from her previous marriage to Cornell Franklin and Faulkner hoped to support his new family as a writer. He began writing \"As I Lay Dying\" in 1929 while working night shifts at the University of Mississippi Power House. The novel would be published in 1930. Beginning in 1930, Faulkner sent out some of his short stories to various national magazines. Several of his stories were published, which brought him enough income to buy a house in Oxford for his family to inhabit, which he named Rowan Oak. He made money on his 1931 novel, \"Sanctuary\", which was widely reviewed and read (but widely disliked for its perceived criticism of the South).\n\nBy 1932, Faulkner was in need of money. He asked Wasson to sell the serialization rights for his newly completed novel, \"Light in August\", to a magazine for $5,000, but none accepted the offer. Then MGM Studios offered Faulkner work as a screenwriter in Hollywood. Although not an avid moviegoer, he needed the money, and so accepted the job offer and arrived in Culver City, California, in May 1932. There he worked with director Howard Hawks, with whom he quickly developed a friendship, as they both enjoyed drinking and hunting. Howard Hawks' brother, William Hawks, became Faulkner's Hollywood agent. Faulkner would continue to find reliable work as a screenwriter from the 1930s to the 1950s.\n\nFaulkner served as Writer-in-Residence at the University of Virginia at Charlottesville from February to June 1957 and again in 1958.\nAs a teenager in Oxford, Faulkner dated Estelle Oldham (1897–1972), the popular daughter of Major Lemuel and Lida Oldham, and believed he would some day marry her. However, Estelle dated other boys during their romance, and in 1918 one of them, Cornell Franklin, proposed marriage to her before Faulkner did. Estelle's parents insisted she marry Cornell, as he was an Ole Miss law graduate, had recently been commissioned as a major in the Hawaiian Territorial Forces, and came from a respectable family with which they were old friends. Estelle's marriage to Franklin fell apart ten years later, and they divorced in April 1929.\n\nTwo months later, Faulkner and Estelle wed in June 1929 at College Hill Presbyterian Church just outside Oxford, Mississippi. They honeymooned on the Mississippi Gulf Coast at Pascagoula, then returned to Oxford, first living with relatives while they searched for a home of their own to purchase. In 1930, Faulkner purchased the antebellum home Rowan Oak, known at that time as The Shegog Place from Irish planter Robert Shegog. After his death, Estelle and their daughter, Jill, lived at Rowan Oak until Estelle's death in 1972. The property was sold to the University of Mississippi that same year. The house and furnishings are maintained much as they were in Faulkner's day. Faulkner's scribblings are preserved on the wall, including the day-by-day outline covering a week he wrote on the walls of his small study to help him keep track of the plot twists in his novel, \"A Fable\".\n\nThe quality and quantity of Faulkner's literary output were achieved despite a lifelong drinking problem. He rarely drank while writing, preferring instead to binge after a project's completion.\n\nFaulkner had several extramarital affairs. One was with Howard Hawks's secretary and script girl, Meta Carpenter, later known as Meta Wilde. The affair was chronicled in her book \"A Loving Gentleman\". Another, from 1949–53, was with a young writer, Joan Williams, who made her relationship with Faulkner the subject of her 1971 novel, \"The Wintering\".\n\nWhen Faulkner visited Stockholm in December 1950 to receive the Nobel Prize, he met Else Jonsson (1912–1996), widow of journalist Thorsten Jonsson (1910–1950), reporter for \"Dagens Nyheter\" in New York from 1943–46, who had interviewed Faulkner in 1946 and introduced his works to Swedish readers. Faulkner and Else had an affair that lasted until the end of 1953. At the banquet where they met in 1950, publisher Tor Bonnier introduced Else as the widow of the man responsible for Faulkner's winning the prize.\n\nOn June 17, 1962, Faulkner suffered a serious injury in a fall from his horse, which led to thrombosis. He suffered a fatal heart attack on July 6, 1962, at the age of 64 at Wright's Sanatorium in Byhalia, Mississippi. Faulkner is buried with his family in St. Peter's Cemetery in Oxford, alongside the grave of an unidentified family friend, whose stone is marked only with the initials \"E.T.\"\n\nFrom the early 1920s to the outbreak of World War II, Faulkner published 13 novels and many short stories. Such a body of work formed the basis of his reputation and earned him the Nobel Prize at age 52. Faulkner's prodigious output includes his most celebrated novels such as \"The Sound and the Fury\" (1929), \"As I Lay Dying\" (1930), \"Light in August\" (1932), and \"Absalom, Absalom!\" (1936). Faulkner was also a prolific writer of short stories.\n\nHis first short story collection, \"These 13\" (1931), includes many of his most acclaimed (and most frequently anthologized) stories, including \"A Rose for Emily\", \"Red Leaves\", \"That Evening Sun\", and \"Dry September\". Faulkner set many of his short stories and novels in Yoknapatawpha County — based on, and nearly geographically identical to, Lafayette County, of which his hometown of Oxford, Mississippi, is the county seat. Yoknapatawpha was Faulkner's \"postage stamp\", and the bulk of work that it represents is widely considered by critics to amount to one of the most monumental fictional creations in the history of literature. Three of his novels, \"The Hamlet\", \"The Town\" and \"The Mansion\", known collectively as the Snopes Trilogy, document the town of Jefferson and its environs, as an extended family headed by Flem Snopes insinuates itself into the lives and psyches of the general populace.\n\nHis short story \"A Rose for Emily\" was his first story published in a major magazine, the \"Forum\", but received little attention from the public. After revisions and reissues, it gained popularity and is now considered one of his best.\n\nFaulkner was known for his experimental style with meticulous attention to diction and cadence. In contrast to the minimalist understatement of his contemporary Ernest Hemingway, Faulkner made frequent use of \"stream of consciousness\" in his writing, and wrote often highly emotional, subtle, cerebral, complex, and sometimes Gothic or grotesque stories of a wide variety of characters including former slaves or descendants of slaves, poor white, agrarian, or working-class Southerners, and Southern aristocrats.\n\nIn an interview with \"The Paris Review\" in 1956, Faulkner remarked: Let the writer take up surgery or bricklaying if he is interested in technique. There is no mechanical way to get the writing done, no shortcut. The young writer would be a fool to follow a theory. Teach yourself by your own mistakes; people learn only by error. The good artist believes that nobody is good enough to give him advice. He has supreme vanity. No matter how much he admires the old writer, he wants to beat him. Another esteemed Southern writer, Flannery O'Connor, stated that \"the presence alone of Faulkner in our midst makes a great difference in what the writer can and cannot permit himself to do. Nobody wants his mule and wagon stalled on the same track the Dixie Limited is roaring down\".\n\nFaulkner wrote two volumes of poetry which were published in small printings, \"The Marble Faun\" (1924), and \"A Green Bough\" (1933), and a collection of mystery stories, \"Knight's Gambit\" (1949).\n\nFaulkner's work has been examined by many critics from a wide variety of critical perspectives.\n\nThe New Critics became very interested in Faulkner's work, with Cleanth Brooks writing \"The Yoknapatawpha Country\" and Michael Millgate writing \"The Achievement of William Faulkner\". Since then, critics have looked at Faulkner's work using other approaches, such as feminist and psychoanalytic methods. Faulkner's works have been placed within the literary traditions of modernism and the Southern Renaissance.\n\nAccording to critic and translator Valerie Miles, Faulkner's influence on Latin American fiction is considerable, with fictional worlds created by Gabriel García Márquez (Macondo) and Juan Carlos Onetti (Santa Maria) being \"very much in the vein of\" Yoknapatawpha: \"[ Carlos Fuentes'] \"The Death of Artemio Cruz\" wouldn't exist if not for \"As I Lay Dying\"\".\n\nThe works of William Faulkner are a clear influence on the French novelist Claude Simon.\n\nFaulkner was awarded the 1949 Nobel Prize for Literature for \"his powerful and artistically unique contribution to the modern American novel\". It was awarded at the following year's banquet along with the 1950 Prize to Bertrand Russell. Faulkner detested the fame and glory that resulted from his recognition. His aversion was so great that his 17-year-old daughter learned of the Nobel Prize only when she was called to the principal's office during the school day.\n\nHe donated part of his Nobel money \"to establish a fund to support and encourage new fiction writers\", eventually resulting in the PEN/Faulkner Award for Fiction, and donated another part to a local Oxford bank, establishing a scholarship fund to help educate African-American teachers at Rust College in nearby Holly Springs, Mississippi. The government of France made Faulkner a Chevalier de la Légion d'honneur in 1951.\n\nFaulkner was awarded two Pulitzer Prizes for what are considered \"minor\" novels: his 1954 novel \"A Fable\", which took the Pulitzer in 1955, and the 1962 novel, \"The Reivers\", which was posthumously awarded the Pulitzer in 1963. (The award for \"A Fable\" was a controversial political choice. The jury had selected Milton Lott's \"The Last Hunt\" for the prize, but Pulitzer Prize Administrator Professor John Hohenberg convinced the Pulitzer board that Faulkner was long overdue for the award, despite \"A Fable\" being a lesser work of his, and the board overrode the jury's selection, much to the disgust of its members.) He also won the U.S. National Book Award twice, for \"Collected Stories\" in 1951 and \"A Fable\" in 1955. In 1946 he was one of three finalists for the first \"Ellery Queen Mystery Magazine\" Award and placed second to Rhea Galati.\n\nThe United States Postal Service issued a 22-cent postage stamp in his honor on August 3, 1987. Faulkner had once served as Postmaster at the University of Mississippi, and in his letter of resignation in 1923 wrote:\nAs long as I live under the capitalistic system, I expect to have my life influenced by the demands of moneyed people. But I will be damned if I propose to be at the beck and call of every itinerant scoundrel who has two cents to invest in a postage stamp.This, sir, is my resignation.\n\nThe manuscripts of most of Faulkner's works, correspondence, personal papers, and over 300 books from his working library reside at the Albert and Shirley Small Special Collections Library at the University of Virginia, where he spent much of his time in his final years. The library also houses some of the writer's personal effects and the papers of major Faulkner associates and scholars, such as his biographer Joseph Blotner, bibliographer Linton Massey, and Random House editor Albert Erskine.\n\nSoutheast Missouri State University, where the Center for Faulkner Studies is located, also owns a generous collection of Faulkner materials, including first editions, manuscripts, letters, photographs, artwork, and many materials pertaining to Faulkner's time in Hollywood. The university possesses many personal files and letters kept by Joseph Blotner, along with books and letters that once belonged to Malcolm Cowley, another famous editor for William Faulkner. The university achieved the collection due to a generous donation by Louis Daniel Brodsky, a collector of Faulkner materials, in 1989.\n\nFurther significant Faulkner materials reside at the University of Mississippi, the Harry Ransom Center, and the New York Public Library.\n\nThe Random House records at Columbia University also include letters by and to Faulkner.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43184939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43184939", "title": "Zainul Abidin of Aceh", "text": "Zainul Abidin of Aceh\n\nSultan Zainul Abidin (died 5 October 1579) was the seventh sultan of Aceh in northern Sumatra. His reign was the last of three brief ones in the year 1579.\n\nZainul Abidin was the son of Sultan Ghori alias Abdullah, who was the vassal ruler of Aru (Deli) and died in battle in 1568. He was the grandson of Sultan Alauddin al-Kahar. After the rapid deaths of the sultans Ali Ri'ayat Syah I, Sultan Muda and Sri Alam, he was placed on the throne of Aceh in 1579. However, according to the chronicles he was only interested in pleasures and especially enjoyed animal fights and life-and-death fights between humans. It was even alleged that he had no appetite before he had seen blood flowing. He also behaved in a tyrannical way towards his \"uleëbalangs\" (chiefs). The chiefs therefore resolved to get rid of him. The plotters put him on an elephant and brought him to Makota Alam where he was murdered. This happened on 5 October 1579. He was succeeded by Alauddin Mansur Syah who did not belong to the old sultan's family.\n\n"}
