{"id": "57748105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57748105", "title": "African immigration to Canada", "text": "African immigration to Canada\n\nAfrican immigration to Canada comprises citizens of countries in Africa who emigrated to Canada, as well as their descendants.\n\nAccording to Statistics Canada, African-born individuals comprised 13.4% of recent immigrants to Canada as of 2016. This was the second largest number of recent immigrants to the nation after Europe, and a four-fold increase from the number of African-born immigrants in 1971 (3.2%). As of 2016, the top five countries of birth of recent African-born immigrants to Canada were Nigeria, Algeria, Egypt, Morocco and Cameroon.\n\nAmong the population in Canada with an immigrant background, persons with ancestry from Africa were the youngest residents as of 2016, with the largest proportion aged between 0-14 years old (~12%).\n\nMany immigrants from French-speaking African countries have settled in Quebec. Of these, most were from Côte d'Ivoire, the Democratic Republic of Congo and Senegal, as well as Algeria, Morocco and Tunisia.\n\n"}
{"id": "13390560", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13390560", "title": "Alberto Fujimori's arrest and trial", "text": "Alberto Fujimori's arrest and trial\n\nFormer Peruvian President Alberto Fujimori was arrested, tried, and convicted for a number of crimes related to corruption and human rights abuses that occurred during his government. Fujimori was president from 1990 to 2000. His presidency ended when he fled the country in the midst of a scandal involving corruption and human rights violations.\n\nWanted in Peru, Fujimori maintained a self-imposed exile until his arrest while visiting Chile in November 2005. He was extradited to face criminal charges in Peru in September 2007.\n\nIn December 2007, Fujimori was convicted of ordering an illegal search and seizure, and was sentenced to six years in prison. The Supreme Court upheld the decision upon his appeal. In April 2009 Fujimori was convicted of human rights violations and sentenced to 25 years in prison for his role in killings and kidnappings by the Grupo Colina death squad during his government's battle against leftist guerrillas in the 1990s.\n\nThe verdict, delivered by a three-judge panel, marked the first time that an elected head of state has been extradited to his home country, tried, and convicted of human rights violations. Fujimori was specifically found guilty of murder, bodily harm, and two cases of kidnapping. In July 2009 Fujimori was sentenced to seven and a half years in prison for embezzlement after he admitted to giving $15 million from the Peruvian treasury to his intelligence service chief, Vladimiro Montesinos. Two months later he pled guilty in a fourth trial to bribery and received an additional six-year term. Under Peruvian law all the sentences must run concurrently, with a maximum length of imprisonment of 25 years.\n\nOn 24 December 2017, President Pedro Pablo Kuczynski pardoned him on health grounds. The pardon was overturned by the Peruvian Supreme Court in October 2018.\n\nAfter Fujimori fled to Japan, the government of Peru requested his extradition. Because Japan recognizes Fujimori as a Japanese citizen rather than a Peruvian citizen due to the Master Nationality Rule, and because Japan refuses to extradite its citizens to other countries, Fujimori was not extradited from Japan.\n\nOn 6 November 2005, Alberto Fujimori unexpectedly arrived in Santiago, Chile, on a private aircraft, having flown via Tijuana from Tokyo. His flight had passed through Peruvian airspace on its path from Mexico to Chile. There were numerous firings over alleged negligence in the handling of the Fujimori flight to Chile. As investigations continued, two Chilean and four Mexican immigration officers were dismissed for failing to notify superiors of Fujimori's stop at the time of his arrival. Colonel Carlos Medel, head of Interpol in Lima, was also fired for negligence, apparently having ordered his staff to switch off the 24-hour Interpol warning system at the time of the overflight.\n\nMexican officials suggested Fujimori was not arrested in Mexico because there was no judicial order for his arrest. Peruvian president Alejandro Toledo, after learning of the arrival of Fujimori in Chile, called for an \"urgent meeting\" in the governmental palace. Toledo called Chile's foreign minister, Ignacio Walker, and requested the detention of Fujimori. A few hours later, Fujimori was detained on an arrest warrant issued by a Chilean judge, who was told by Chile's Supreme Court to consider Lima's request for Fujimori's pre-trial detention, as part of the extradition process.\n\nFujimori was then transferred to the School of Investigations, Chile's Investigative Police academy, where he spent the night. Notified of the reasons for his arrest, Fujimori petitioned for provisional freedom during the extradition proceedings, but his petition was denied. Later in the day, he was transferred to the School of Gendarmerie, a training academy for corrections officers, where he was detained until May 2006.\n\nThe decision whether or not to extradite Fujimori was delegated by the Chilean government to the Supreme Court, following precedent dating to a 1932 extradition treaty between the two nations. Chilean law suggests that in addition to the terms of the treaty, extradition requests must also be based on whether there is sufficient evidence against the accused – not necessarily enough to convict him of the charges, but sufficient to justify (from a Chilean legal point of view) the indictments the accused faces. This meant that Peruvian prosecutors had to demonstrate that the crimes for which Fujimori has been charged in Peru were just as severe in Chile.\n\nPeru, which had sixty days to issue an extradition request, sent a high-level delegation led by Interior Minister Rómulo Pizarro and a top prosecutor. The government of Japan asked for \"fair treatment\" for Fujimori.\n\nOn 18 May 2006 Fujimori was granted bail (set at US $2,830) by the Chilean Supreme Court and was released from detention and whisked away to a house rented for him by his family in the Las Condes neighborhood of Santiago. According to Fujii Takahiko, one of the Japanese financiers who had been covering some of Fujimori's expenses, \"Fujimori [calmly waited] for the decision of the Chilean Supreme Court because he [had] the assurance that he [would] not be extradited.\" It was reported that Fujii covered the cost of renting the house, while a cadre of businessmen and Japanese friends covered his living expenses. Fujii, a car exporter by trade, reported that Fujimori had largely forgotten his knowledge of the Japanese language.,\n\nFujimori arrived at a time of tense relations between Chile and Peru, after Peru's Congress passed a law the previous week in an attempt to reclaim sea territory from Chile. Chilean foreign minister, Ignacio Walker, said Fujimori's action demonstrated \"a very imprudent, very irresponsible attitude, considering this is the most difficult week we have had with Peru in the last decade\". In a media statement, Fujimori said that he would stay in Chile temporarily while launching his candidacy for Peruvian president in the April 2006 elections.\n\nThe government of Peru sent a number of extradition requests to Chile concerning Fujimori. It requested his extradition to stand trial for murder in the cases of the Barrios Altos massacre and the La Cantuta massacre, both carried out by Grupo Colina. It also requested his extradition for kidnapping Samuel Dyer and Gustavo Gorriti, both of whom were abducted by Peruvian Army personnel during Fujimori's self-coup and brought to the basements of the Intelligence Service.\n\nAdditionally, he was charged with usurpation of powers and abuse of authority for ordering the illegal search and seizure of a house owned by Vladimiro Montesinos' wife; illicit association to commit a crime, embezzlement, and inserting false statements in a public document for paying Montesinos US$15 million; illicit association to commit a crime and active corruption of authorities for paying congressmen to switch parties and inform on the opposition parties; telephonic interference or eavesdropping, illicit association to commit a crime, and embezzlement for authorizing the illegal wiretapping of opposition figure's phones; and illicit association to commit a crime, embezzlement, and usurpation of powers for engaging in a fraudulent purchase of tractors from China and bribing newspapers and television stations with state money in order to obtain favorable news coverage.\nSubsequently, the Chilean judge overseeing the extradition proceedings refused to accept new evidence regarding the 10 corruption and two human rights charges, which, according to the BBC News' Dan Collyns, \"would have prolonged the case by several months\". On 22 November 2006, the Peruvian government issued a new arrest warrant for Fujimori, alleging that he ordered the death of 20 members of Sendero Luminoso in 1992. Fujimori denied the charge.\n\nOn 11 January 2007 Chile's Supreme Court rejected a motion for an additional investigation filed by lawyers representing Fujimori. The new ruling coincided with the Peruvian government's anger over a recent Inter-American Court of Human Rights (IACHR) ruling that found Peru guilty of crimes committed during former president’s regime. The Peruvian government expressed fresh concern that Fujimori might try to escape from Chile. Although Fujimori was on parole, with stipulations banning him from leaving Chile, at the end of January 2007 he traveled to a beach resort aboard a private airplane.\n\nOn 1 February 2007 Reuters reported that the Peruvian government's final report on Fujimori's extradition included additional evidence supporting the former president's links to human rights abuses. In the words of Carlos Briceno, Peru's special corruption prosecutor, \"We've practically finished the report, in which there is irrefutable proof [against Fujimori]\". For his part, Fujimori denied the human rights and embezzlement charges.\n\nOn 8 February 2007 the Peruvian government filed a formal request with the United States for the extradition of Fujimori's younger brother, Pedro Fujimori. According to the head of the Peruvian Justice Ministry's Unit for Extraditions, Omar Chehade, Pedro Fujimori was charged with corruption associated with reception of illegal donations for an NGO, Apenkai, founded at the outset of Fujimori’s first term in office. Chehade reported to Reuters that Pedro Fujimori oversaw Japanese donations to the Peruvian government, and that he allegedly siphoned off as much as US $30 million into his own personal bank accounts in the United States. A spokesperson for the Fujimorista party, Congressman Carlos Raffo, denied the charges calling them unsubstantiated, and noted that there are no signs of corruption on the part of Pedro Fujimori.\n\nOn 20 July 2007 the Chilean Supreme Court judge Orlando Álvarez, ruled that he had not found any evidence linking former president Alberto Fujimori with all the corruption cases and alleged human rights violations of which the Toledo congress had accused him. Judge Álvarez stated that all the accusations were based on hearsay; \"he [Fujimori] was supposed to know those criminal acts\".\n\nThe opinion was immediately appealed to the Supreme Court.\n\nThe Chilean Supreme Court granted Fujimori's extradition to Peru on 21 September 2007, on 7 of 13 charges. The Barrios Altos massacre and La Cantuta massacre related charges were accepted unanimously, while four other corruption-related charges were passed by a majority of votes. One corruption charge was passed unanimously.\n\nOn the same day, Peruvian police sent an airplane to receive Fujimori. The plane (with Peru's General Director of National Police, David Rodriguez, four Interpol officers and physicians) arrived in Santiago on the morning of 22 September. The following day, the plane returned to Lima's Las Palmas air force base with Fujimori on board. He was flown by helicopter to a police base, to be held in detention until a permanent facility was prepared.\n\nFujimori confessed that he had ordered a warrantless search of Vladimiro Montesinos's wife's apartment, and on 11 December 2007, the Peruvian court sentenced him to six years in prison and fined him 400,000 soles (135,000 U.S. dollars) for abuse of powers in ordering this search, which took place shortly before he left office.\n\nOn 10 April 2008, the Supreme Court of Peru upheld Fujimori's sentence of six years in the case.\n\nMartha Chávez was \"Sí Cumple\"'s presidential candidate in the April 9, 2006 general election (under the \"Alianza por el Futuro\" banner). Fujimori's daughter, Keiko Fujimori was a congressional candidate representing the same alliance. While Chávez got 7.43% of the first-round vote (placed 4th) for presidency and was eliminated, Keiko Fujimori received the highest vote for any single candidate (with 602,869 votes) and took one of \"Sí Cumple's\" 13 seats in the new Congress.\n\nSome of \"Sí Cumple\"'s members have occupied powerful positions in congress, such as Luisa María Cuculiza, who was first elected to Congress in 2006; Rolando Souza, who was formerly\nAlberto Fujimori's lawyer and later appointed to the Constitutional Court; and Santiago Fujimori, who was president of the Energy Committee. Keiko Fujimori, was president of the Peruvian-Chilean Friendship Commission.\n\nIn June 2007, Fujimori announced his candidacy for the House of Councillors, the upper house of the Diet of Japan, under the banner of the People's New Party, a minor party with only eight lawmakers. Still under house arrest in Chile at the time, Fujimori's initial campaign statements were conveyed by party head Shizuka Kamei. Japan's government had determined in 2000 that Fujimori holds Japanese citizenship. The Japanese Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications issued a statement in response, pointing out that there is no law banning participation in an election by someone under house arrest in a foreign country.\n\nThe announcement sparked speculation that Fujimori's candidacy was a maneuver to win diplomatic immunity as an elected official and avoid trial in Peru. Chilean President Michelle Bachelet said her country's Supreme Court would not be influenced by the move and would soon decide whether to grant an extradition request to return Fujimori to Peru.\n\nOn 11 July 2007, Chile's Supreme Court turned down the Peruvian government's request that Fujimori be extradited there to face charges of human rights violations; however he remained under house arrest in Chile and it was unclear whether he would be permitted to depart for Japan. Though much of the Japanese public have a favorable view of Fujimori due to his role in the resolution of the 1997 Japanese embassy hostage crisis, members of the Democratic Party of Japan and the Japanese Communist Party questioned his commitment to Japan and accused him of using the election to avoid justice in Peru.\n\nJapan indicated on 5 July 2007 that it had no plans to ask Chile to allow Alberto Fujimori to return for that month's upper house elections. The leader of the People's New Party had urged Japan's Foreign Minister to take up the issue with the government of Chile. Fujimori ultimately lost the election.\n\nOn 7 April 2009, a three-judge panel of Peru's Supreme Court convicted Fujimori on charges of human rights abuses, declaring that the \"charges against him have been proven beyond all reasonable doubt\". The panel found him guilty of ordering the Grupo Colina death squad to execute the November 1991 Barrios Altos massacre and the July 1992 La Cantuta massacre, which resulted in the deaths of 25 people, and for taking part in the kidnappings of Peruvian journalist Gustavo Gorriti and businessman Samuel Dyer. Fujimori's conviction marked the first time in history that a democratically elected president had been tried and found guilty of human rights abuses in his own country. Fujimori was already serving a six-year prison sentence for his December 2007 conviction on abuse of power charges. The trial for Fujimori's human rights abuses lasted 15 months, and was postponed on multiple occasions due to his ill health. Later on 7 April, the court sentenced Fujimori to 25 years in prison.\n\nRonald Gamarra Herrera, Executive Secretary of National Coordinator for Human Rights of Peru and one of the lawyers representing the civil parties –the families of the Barrios Altos and La Cantuta victims– said to the press that \"there has not been hate, or revenge, or cruelty in Fujimori's trial. What there has been is justice. We are not happy for the pain of a man, nor of what tragedy his family is going through. But yes it is comforting to know that justice has been served and that the victims, after so many years, can rest in peace\".\n\nThe \"Financial Times\" claimed that international observers had \"hailed the trial as a model of due process even before the verdict was read out\". Michael Reed of the International Center for Transitional Justice stated that, \"Throughout 15 months the whole Peruvian people have been actively living this process. This social engagement is important … the decision will in fact demonstrate polarisation. The issue is how the Peruvian state and Peruvian society deal with that polarization towards the future.\" Maria McFarland, a Senior Researcher for Human Rights Watch, noted that the verdict was \"absolutely the right decision ... [and] well grounded in all the evidence\" and that the special court would \"go down in history as a model of what we want to see in terms of rule of law and justice and progress in Latin America. So much has always been focused on the power of the executive and the president and the strong man; now suddenly the judiciary is having a say.\"\n\nAfter Fujimori's conviction had been announced, riots broke out in the streets. In the Ate District, approximately twenty police officers had to break up a fight between members of Fujimori's political party and a group from the local Peru's Workers Confederation (CTP). It was believed that the riot broke out when about fifty CTP members went to the police station and provoked a fight with some 300 Fujimori supporters. Outside the court, relatives of victims clashed with Fujimori supporters; the fights were broken up by riot police.\n\n\"Correo\", a right-wing newspaper in Lima, published a poll on 9 April claiming that 59.4% was against Fujimori's conviction, with rejection of the sentence reaching 68.3% among the lower classes. Nevertheless, the poll doesn't clarify if those interviewed considered Fujimori innocent or if they considered him guilty but did't approve of the sentence itself.\n\nOn 24 December 2017, President Pedro Pablo Kuczynski pardoned Fujimori and seven other prisoners on health grounds. Fujimori had been rushed to the hospital days earlier for low blood pressure and an abnormal heart rhythm, and Kuczynski had been saved from impeachment less than a week earlier, largely due to the support of Fujimori's son Kenji. Fujimori's daughter Keiko had led the impeachment proceedings against Kuczynski, who had defeated her the year before in a tightly contested presidential election. The \"Christmas pardon\", as it became known in Spanish, was met with angry protests and at least two resignations from members of Kuczynski's party. The Peruvian non-profit law office Legal Defense Institute denounced the pardon as political and illegal and vowed to appeal it to the Inter-American Court of Human Rights.\n\nThe Supreme Court of Peru overturned the pardon in October 2018, calling it unlawful.\n\n"}
{"id": "41831802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41831802", "title": "American anthropology", "text": "American anthropology\n\nAmerican anthropology has culture as its central and unifying concept. This most commonly refers to the universal human capacity to classify and encode human experiences symbolically, and to communicate symbolically encoded experiences socially. American anthropology is organized into four fields, each of which plays an important role in research on culture:\n\n\nResearch in these fields has influenced anthropologists working in other countries to different degrees.\n\nDiscussion concerning culture among biological anthropologists centers around two debates. First, is culture uniquely human or shared by other species (most notably, other primates)? This is an important question, as the theory of evolution holds that humans are descended from (now extinct) non-human primates. Second, how did culture evolve among human beings?\n\nGerald Weiss noted that although Tylor's classic definition of culture was restricted to humans, many anthropologists take this for granted and thus elide that important qualification from later definitions, merely equating culture with any learned behavior. This slippage is a problem because during the formative years of modern primatology, some primatologists were trained in anthropology (and understood that culture refers to learned behavior among humans), and others were not. Notable non-anthropologists, like Robert Yerkes and Jane Goodall thus argued that since chimpanzees have learned behaviors, they have culture. Today, anthropological primatologists are divided, several arguing that non-human primates have culture, others arguing that they do not.\n\nThis scientific debate is complicated by ethical concerns. The subjects of primatology are non-human primates, and whatever culture these primates have is threatened by human activity. After reviewing the research on primate culture, W. C. McGrew concluded, \"[a] discipline requires subjects, and most species of nonhuman primates are endangered by their human cousins. Ultimately, whatever its merit, cultural primatology must be committed to cultural survival [i.e. to the survival of primate cultures].\"\n\nMcGrew suggests a definition of culture that he finds scientifically useful for studying primate culture. He points out that scientists do not have access to the subjective thoughts or knowledge of non-human primates. Thus, if culture is defined in terms of knowledge, then scientists are severely limited in their attempts to study primate culture. Instead of defining culture as a kind of knowledge, McGrew suggests that we view culture as a process. He lists six steps in the process:\nMcGrew admits that all six criteria may be strict, given the difficulties in observing primate behavior in the wild. But he also insists on the need to be as inclusive as possible, on the need for a definition of culture that \"casts the net widely\":\n\nAs Charles Frederick Voegelin pointed out, if \"culture\" is reduced to \"learned behavior,\" then all animals have culture. Certainly all specialists agree that all primate species evidence common cognitive skills: knowledge of object-permanence, cognitive mapping, the ability to categorize objects, and creative problem solving. Moreover, all primate species show evidence of shared social skills: they recognize members of their social group; they form direct relationships based on degrees of kinship and rank; they recognize third-party social relationships; they predict future behavior; and they cooperate in problem-solving.\n\nNevertheless, the term \"culture\" applies to non-human animals only if we define culture as any or all learned behavior. Within mainstream physical anthropology, scholars tend to think that a more restrictive definition is necessary. These researchers are concerned with how human beings evolved to be different from other species. A more precise definition of culture, which excludes non-human social behavior, would allow physical anthropologists to study how humans evolved their unique capacity for \"culture\".\n\nChimpanzees (\"Pan troglodytes\" and \"Pan paniscus\") are humans' (\"Homo sapiens\") closest living relatives; both are descended from a common ancestor which lived around seven million years ago. Human evolution has been rapid with modern humans appearing about 340,000 years ago. During this time humanity evolved three distinctive features:\n\nIn a recent review of the major research on human and primate tool-use, communication, and learning strategies, Tomasello argues that the key human advances over primates (language, complex technologies, and complex social organization) are all the results of humans pooling cognitive resources. This is called \"the ratchet effect:\" innovations spread and are shared by a group, and mastered \"by youngsters, which enables them to remain in their new and improved form within the group until something better comes along.\" The key point is that children are born good at a particular kind of social learning; this creates a favored environment for social innovations, making them more likely to be maintained and transmitted to new generations than individual innovations. For Tomasello, human social learning—the kind of learning that distinguishes humans from other primates and that played a decisive role in human evolution—is based on two elements: first, what he calls \"imitative learning,\" (as opposed to \"emulative learning\" characteristic of other primates) and second, the fact that humans represent their experiences symbolically (rather than iconically, as is characteristic of other primates). Together, these elements enable humans to be both inventive, and to preserve useful inventions. It is this combination that produces the ratchet effect.\n\nThe kind of learning found among other primates is \"emulation learning,\" which \"focuses on the environmental events involved – results or changes of state in the environment that the other produced – rather than on the actions that produced those results.\" Tomasello emphasizes that emulation learning is a highly adaptive strategy for apes because it focuses on the effects of an act. In laboratory experiments, chimpanzees were shown two different ways for using a rake-like tool to obtain an out-of-reach-object. Both methods were effective, but one was more efficient than the other. Chimpanzees consistently emulated the more efficient method.\n\nExamples of emulation learning are well documented among primates. Notable examples include Japanese macaque potato washing, chimpanzee tool use, and chimpanzee gestural communication. In 1953, an 18-month-old female macaque monkey was observed taking sandy pieces of sweet potato (given to the monkeys by observers) to a stream (and later, to the ocean) to wash off the sand. After three months, the same behavior was observed in her mother and two playmates, and then the playmates' mothers. Over the next two years seven other young macaques were observed washing their potatoes, and by the end of the third year 40% of the troop had adopted the practice. Although this story is popularly represented as a straightforward example of human-like learning, evidence suggests that it is not. Many monkeys naturally brush sand off food; this behavior had been observed in the macaque troop prior to the first observed washing. Moreover, potato washing was observed in four other separate macaque troops, suggesting that at least four other individual monkeys had learned to wash off sand on their own. Other monkey species in captivity quickly learn to wash off their food. Finally, the spread of learning among the Japanese macaques was fairly slow, and the rate at which new members of the troop learned did not keep pace with the growth of the troop. If the form of learning were imitation, the rate of learning should have been exponential. It is more likely that the monkeys' washing behavior is based on the common behavior of cleaning off food, and that monkeys that spent time by the water independently learned to wash, rather than wipe their food. This explains both why those monkeys that kept company with the original washer, and who thus spent a good deal of time by the water, also figured out how to wash their potatoes. It also explains why the rate at which this behavior spread was slow.\n\nChimpanzees exhibit a variety of population-specific tool use: termite-fishing, ant-fishing, ant-dipping, nut-cracking, and leaf-sponging. Gombe Chimpanzees fish for termites using small, thin sticks, but chimpanzees in Western Africa use large sticks to break holes in mounds and use their hands to scoop up termites. Some of this variation may be the result of \"environmental shaping\" (there is more rainfall in western Africa, softening termite mounds and making them easier to break apart, than in the Gombe reserve in eastern Africa). Nevertheless, it is clear that chimpanzees are good at emulation learning. Chimpanzee children independently know how to roll over logs, and know how to eat insects. When children see their mothers rolling over logs to eat the insects beneath, they quickly learn to do the same. In other words, this form of learning builds on activities the children already know.\n\nThe kind of learning characteristic of human children is imitative learning, which \"means reproducing an instrumental act understood intentionally.\" Human infants begin to display some evidence of this form of learning between the ages of nine and 12 months, when infants fix their attention not only on an object, but on the gaze of an adult which enables them to use adults as points of reference and thus \"act on objects in the way adults are acting on them.\" This dynamic is well documented and has also been termed \"joint engagement\" or \"joint attention.\" Essential to this dynamic is the infant's growing capacity to recognize others as \"intentional agents:\" people \"with the power to control their spontaneous behavior\" and who \"have goals and make active choices among behavioral means for attaining those goals.\"\n\nThe development of skills in joint attention by the end of a human child's first year of life provides the basis for the development of imitative learning in the second year. In one study 14-month-old children imitated an adult's over-complex method of turning on a light, even when they could have used an easier and more natural motion to the same effect. In another study, 16-month-old children interacted with adults who alternated between a complex series of motions that appeared intentional and a comparable set of motions that appeared accidental; they imitated only those motions that appeared intentional. Another study of 18-month old children revealed that children imitate actions that adults intend, yet in some way fail, to perform.\n\nTomasello emphasizes that this kind of imitative learning \"relies fundamentally on infants' tendency to identify with adults, and on their ability to distinguish in the actions of others the underlying goal and the different means that might be used to achieve it.\" He calls this kind of imitative learning \"cultural learning because the child is not just learning about things from other persons, she is also learning things through them — in the sense that she must know something of the adult's perspective on a situation to learn the active use of this same intentional act.\" He concludes that the key feature of cultural learning is that it occurs only when an individual \"understands others as intentional agents, like the self, who have a perspective on the world that can be followed into, directed and shared.\"\n\nEmulation learning and imitative learning are two different adaptations that can only be assessed in their larger environmental and evolutionary contexts. In one experiment, chimpanzees and two-year-old children were separately presented with a rake-like-tool and an out-of-reach object. Adult humans then demonstrated two different ways to use the tool, one more efficient, one less efficient. Chimpanzees used the same efficient method following both demonstrations, regardless of what was demonstrated. Most of the human children, however, imitated whichever method the adult was demonstrating. If the chimps and humans were to be compared on the basis of these results, one might think that chimpanzees are more intelligent. From an evolutionary perspective they are equally intelligent, but with different kinds of intelligence adapted to different environments. Chimpanzee learning strategies are well-suited to a stable physical environment that requires little social cooperation (compared to humans). Human learning strategies are well-suited to a more complex social environment in which understanding the intentions of others may be more important than success at a specific task. Tomasello argues that this strategy has made possible the \"ratchet effect\" that enabled humans to evolve complex social systems that have enabled humans to adapt to virtually every physical environment on the surface of the earth.\n\nTomasello further argues that cultural learning is essential for language-acquisition. Most children in any society, and all children in some, do not learn all words through the direct efforts of adults. \"In general, for the vast majority of words in their language, children must find a way to learn in the ongoing flow of social interaction, sometimes from speech not even addressed to them.\" This finding has been confirmed by a variety of experiments in which children learned words even when the referent was not present, multiple referents were possible, and the adult was not directly trying to teach the word to the child. Tomasello concludes that \"a linguistic symbol is nothing other than a marker for an intersubjectively shared understanding of a situation.\"\n\nTomasello's 1999 review of the research contrasting human and non-human primate learning strategies confirms biological anthropologist Ralph Holloway's 1969 argument that a specific kind of sociality linked to symbolic cognition were the keys to human evolution, and constitute the nature of culture. According to Holloway, the key issue in the evolution of \"H. sapiens\", and the key to understanding \"culture,\" \"is how man organizes his experience.\" Culture is \"the \"imposition of arbitrary form upon the environment.\"\" This fact, Holloway argued, is primary to and explains what is distinctive about human learning strategies, tool-use, and language. Human tool-making and language express \"similar, if not identical, cognitive processes\" and provide important evidence for how humankind evolved.\n\nIn other words, whereas McGrew argues that anthropologists must focus on behaviors like communication and tool-use because they have no access to the mind, Holloway argues that human language and tool-use, including the earliest stone tools in the fossil record 2.6 million years ago, are highly suggestive of cognitive differences between humans and non-humans, and that such cognitive differences in turn explain human evolution. For Holloway, the question is not \"whether\" other primates communicate, learn or make tools, but the \"way\" they do these things. \"Washing potatoes in the ocean ... stripping branches of leaves to get termites,\" and other examples of primate tool-use and learning \"are iconic, and there is no feedback from the environment to the animal.\" Human tools, however, express an independence from natural form that manifests symbolic thinking. \"In the preparation of the stick for termite-eating, the relation between product and raw material is iconic. In the making of a stone tool, in contrast, there is no necessary relation between the form of the final product and the original material.\"\n\nIn Holloway's view, our non-human ancestors, like those of modern chimpanzees and other primates, shared motor and sensory skills, curiosity, memory, and intelligence, with perhaps differences in degree. He adds: \"It is when these are integrated with the unique attributes of arbitrary production (symbolization) and imposition that man qua cultural man appears.\"\n\nHe also adds:\n\nThis is comparable to the \"ratcheting\" aspect suggested by Tomasello and others that enabled human evolution to accelerate. Holloway concludes that the first instance of symbolic thought among humans provided a \"kick-start\" for brain development, tool complexity, social structure, and language to evolve through a constant dynamic of positive feedback. \"This interaction between the propensity to structure the environment arbitrarily and the feedback from the environment to the organism is an emergent process, a process different in kind from anything that preceded it.\"\n\nLinguists Charles Hockett and R. Ascher have identified thirteen design-features of language, some shared by other forms of animal communication. One feature that distinguishes human language is its tremendous productivity; in other words, competent speakers of a language are capable of producing an exponential number of original utterances. This productivity seems to be made possible by a few critical features unique to human language. One is \"duality of patterning,\" meaning that human language consists of the articulation of several distinct processes, each with its own set of rules: combining phonemes to produce morphemes, combining morphemes to produce words, and combining words to produce sentences. This means that a person can master a relatively limited number of signals and sets of rules, to create infinite combinations. Another crucial element is that human language is symbolic: the sound of words (or their shape, when written) typically bear no relation to what they represent. In other words, their meaning is arbitrary. That words have meaning is a matter of convention. Since the meaning of words are arbitrary, any word may have several meanings, and any object may be referred to using a variety of words; the actual word used to describe a particular object depends on the context, the intention of the speaker, and the ability of the listener to judge these appropriately. As Tomasello notes,\n\nHolloway argues that the stone tools associated with genus \"Homo\" have the same features of human language:\nHe also adds:\n\nAs Tomasello demonstrates, symbolic thought can operate only in a particular social environment:\n\nBiological anthropologist Terrence Deacon, in a synthesis of over twenty years of research on human evolution, human neurology, and primatology, describes this \"ratcheting effect\" as a form of \"Baldwinian Evolution.\" Named after psychologist James Baldwin, this describes a situation in which an animal's behavior has evolutionary consequences when it changes the natural environment and thus the selective forces acting on the animal.\n\nAccording to Deacon, this occurred between 2 and 2.5 million years ago, when we have the first fossil evidence of stone tool use and the beginning of a trend in an increase in brain size. But it is the evolution of symbolic language which is the cause—and not the effect—of these trends. More specifically, Deacon is suggesting that \"Australopithecines\", like contemporary apes, used tools; it is possible that over the millions of years of \"Australopithecine\" history, many troops developed symbolic communication systems. All that was necessary was that one of these groups so altered their environment that \"it introduced selection for very different learning abilities than affected prior species.\" This troop or population kick-started the Baldwinian process (the \"ratchet effect\") that led to their evolution to genus \"Homo\".\n\nThe question for Deacon is what behavioral-environmental changes could have made the development of symbolic thinking adaptive? Here he emphasizes the importance of distinguishing humans from all other species, not to privilege human intelligence but to problematize it. Given that the evolution of \"H. sapiens\" began with ancestors who did not yet have \"culture,\" what led them to move away from cognitive, learning, communication, and tool-making strategies that were and continued to be adaptive for most other primates (and, some have suggested, most other species of animals)? Learning symbol systems is more time consuming than other forms of communication, so symbolic thought made possible a different communication strategy, but not a more efficient one than other primates. Nevertheless, it must have offered some selective advantage to \"H. sapiens\" to have evolved. Deacon starts by looking at two key determinants in evolutionary history: foraging behavior, and patterns of sexual relations. As he observes competition for sexual access limits the possibilities for social cooperation in many species; yet, Deacon observes, there are three consistent patterns in human reproduction that distinguish them from other species:\nMoreover, there is one feature common to all known human foraging societies (all humans prior to ten or fifteen thousand years ago), and markedly different from other primates: \"the use of meat. . . . The appearance of the first stone tools nearly 2.5 million years ago almost certainly correlates with a radical shift in foraging behavior to gain access to meat.\" Deacon does not believe that symbolic thought was necessary for hunting or tool-making (although tool-making may be a reliable index of symbolic thought); rather, it was necessary for the success of distinctive social relations.\n\nThe key is that while men and women are equally effective foragers, mothers carrying dependent children are not effective hunters. They must thus depend on male hunters. This favors a system in which males have exclusive sexual access to females, and females can predict that their sexual partner will provide food for them and their children. In most mammalian species the result is a system of rank or sexual competition that results in either polygyny, or lifelong pair-bonding between two individuals who live relatively independent of other adults of their species; in both cases male aggression plays an important role in maintaining sexual access to mate(s).\n\nWhat is uniquely characteristic about human societies is what required symbolic cognition, which consequently leads to the evolution of culture: \"cooperative, mixed-sex social groups, with significant male care and provisioning of offspring, and relatively stable patterns of reproductive exclusion.\" This combination is relatively rare in other species because it is \"highly susceptible to disintegration.\" Language and culture provide the glue that holds it together.\n\nChimpanzees also, on occasion, hunt meat; in most cases, however, males consume the meat immediately, and only on occasion share with females who happen to be nearby. Among chimpanzees, hunting for meat increases when other sources of food become scarce, but under these conditions sharing decreases. The first forms of symbolic thinking made stone tools possible, which in turn made hunting for meat a more dependable source of food for our nonhuman ancestors while making possible forms of social communication that make sharing between males and females, but also among males, decreasing sexual competition:\n\nSymbols and symbolic thinking thus make possible a central feature of social relations in every human population: reciprocity. Evolutionary scientists have developed a model to explain reciprocal altruism among closely related individuals. Symbolic thought makes possible reciprocity between distantly related individuals.\n\nIn the 19th century archaeology was often a supplement to history, and the goal of archaeologists was to identify artifacts according to their typology and stratigraphy, thus marking their location in time and space. Franz Boas established that archaeology be one of American anthropology's four fields, and debates among archaeologists have often paralleled debates among cultural anthropologists. In the 1920s and 1930s, Australian-British archaeologist V. Gordon Childe and American archaeologist W. C. McKern independently began moving from asking about the date of an artifact, to asking about the people who produced it — when archaeologists work alongside historians, historical materials generally help answer these questions, but when historical materials are unavailable, archaeologists had to develop new methods. Childe and McKern focused on analyzing the relationships among objects found together; their work established the foundation for a three-tiered model:\nChilde argued that a \"constantly recurring assemblage of artifacts\" is an \"archaeological culture.\" Childe and others viewed \"each archaeological culture ... the manifestation in material terms of a specific \"people\".\"\n\nIn 1948, Walter Taylor systematized the methods and concepts that archaeologists had developed and proposed a general model for the archaeological contribution to knowledge of cultures. He began with the mainstream understanding of culture as the product of human cognitive activity, and the Boasian emphasis on the subjective meanings of objects as dependent on their cultural context. He defined culture as \"a mental phenomenon, consisting of the contents of minds, not of material objects or observable behavior.\" He then devised a three-tiered model linking cultural anthropology to archeology, which he called conjunctive archaeology:\nThat is, material artifacts were the material residue of culture, but not culture itself. Taylor's point was that the archaeological record could contribute to anthropological knowledge, but only if archaeologists reconceived their work not just as digging up artifacts and recording their location in time and space, but as inferring from material remains the behaviors through which they were produced and used, and inferring from these behaviors the mental activities of people. Although many archaeologists agreed that their research was integral to anthropology, Taylor's program was never fully implemented. One reason was that his three-tier model of inferences required too much fieldwork and laboratory analysis to be practical. Moreover, his view that material remains were not themselves cultural, and in fact twice-removed from culture, in fact left archaeology marginal to cultural anthropology.\n\nIn 1962, Leslie White's former student Lewis Binford proposed a new model for anthropological archaeology, called \"the New Archaeology\" or \"Processual Archaeology,\" based on White's definition of culture as \"the extra-somatic means of adaptation for the human organism.\" This definition allowed Binford to establish archaeology as a crucial field for the pursuit of the methodology of Julian Steward's cultural ecology:\n\nIn other words, Binford proposed an archaeology that would be central to the dominant project of cultural anthropologists at the time (culture as non-genetic adaptations to the environment); the \"new archaeology\" was the cultural anthropology (in the form of cultural ecology or ecological anthropology) of the past.\n\nIn the 1980s, there was a movement in the United Kingdom and Europe against the view of archeology as a field of anthropology, echoing Radcliffe-Brown's earlier rejection of cultural anthropology. During this same period, then-Cambridge archaeologist Ian Hodder developed \"post-processual archaeology\" as an alternative. Like Binford (and unlike Taylor) Hodder views artifacts not as objectifications of culture but \"as\" culture itself. Unlike Binford, however, Hodder does not view culture as an environmental adaptation. Instead, he \"is committed to a fluid semiotic version of the traditional culture concept in which material items, artifacts, are full participants in the creation, deployment, alteration, and fading away of symbolic complexes.\" His 1982 book, \"Symbols in Action\", evokes the symbolic anthropology of Geertz, Schneider, with their focus on the context dependent meanings of cultural things, as an alternative to White and Steward's materialist view of culture. In his 1991 textbook, \"Reading the Past: Current Approaches to Interpretation in Archaeology\" Hodder argued that archaeology is more closely aligned to history than to anthropology.\n\nThe connection between culture and language has been noted as far back as the classical period and probably long before. The ancient Greeks, for example, distinguished between civilized peoples and bárbaroi \"those who babble\", i.e. those who speak unintelligible languages. The fact that different groups speak different, unintelligible languages is often considered more tangible evidence for cultural differences than other less obvious cultural traits.\n\nThe German romanticists of the 19th century such as Johann Gottfried Herder and Wilhelm von Humboldt, often saw language not just as one cultural trait among many but rather as the direct expression of a people's national character, and as such as culture in a kind of condensed form. Herder for example suggests, \"Denn jedes Volk ist Volk; es hat seine National Bildung wie seine Sprache\" (Since every people is a People, it has its own national culture expressed through its own language).\n\nFranz Boas, founder of American anthropology, like his German forerunners, maintained that the shared language of a community is the most essential carrier of their common culture. Boas was the first anthropologist who considered it unimaginable to study the culture of a foreign people without also becoming acquainted with their language. For Boas, the fact that the intellectual culture of a people was largely constructed, shared and maintained through the use of language, meant that understanding the language of a cultural group was the key to understanding its culture. At the same time, though, Boas and his students were aware that culture and language are not directly dependent on one another. That is, groups with widely different cultures may share a common language, and speakers of completely unrelated languages may share the same fundamental cultural traits. Numerous other scholars have suggested that the form of language determines specific cultural traits. This is similar to the notion of linguistic determinism, which states that the form of language determines individual thought. While Boas himself rejected a causal link between language and culture, some of his intellectual heirs entertained the idea that habitual patterns of speaking and thinking in a particular language may influence the culture of the linguistic group. Such belief is related to the theory of linguistic relativity. Boas, like most modern anthropologists, however, was more inclined to relate the interconnectedness between language and culture to the fact that, as B.L. Whorf put it, \"they have grown up together\".\n\nIndeed, the origin of language, understood as the human capacity of complex symbolic communication, and the origin of complex culture is often thought to stem from the same evolutionary process in early man. Evolutionary anthropologist Robin I. Dunbar has proposed that language evolved as early humans began to live in large communities which required the use of complex communication to maintain social coherence. Language and culture then both emerged as a means of using symbols to construct social identity and maintain coherence within a social group too large to rely exclusively on pre-human ways of building community such as for example grooming. Since language and culture are both in essence symbolic systems, twentieth century cultural theorists have applied the methods of analyzing language developed in the science of linguistics to also analyze culture. Particularly the structural theory of Ferdinand de Saussure which describes symbolic systems as consisting of signs (a pairing of a particular form with a particular meaning) has come to be applied widely in the study of culture. But also post-structuralist theories that nonetheless still rely on the parallel between language and culture as systems of symbolic communication, have been applied in the field of semiotics. The parallel between language and culture can then be understood as analog to the parallel between a linguistic sign, consisting for example of the sound <nowiki>[kau]</nowiki> and the meaning \"cow\", and a cultural sign, consisting for example of the cultural form of \"wearing a crown\" and the cultural meaning of \"being king\". In this way it can be argued that culture is itself a kind of language. Another parallel between cultural and linguistic systems is that they are both systems of practice, that is, they are a set of special ways of doing things that is constructed and perpetuated through social interactions. Children, for example, acquire language in the same way as they acquire the basic cultural norms of the society they grow up in – through interaction with older members of their cultural group.\n\nHowever, languages, now understood as the particular set of speech norms of a particular community, are also a part of the larger culture of the community that speak them. Humans use language as a way of signalling identity with one cultural group and difference from others. Even among speakers of one language several different ways of using the language exist, and each is used to signal affiliation with particular subgroups within a larger culture. In linguistics such different ways of using the same language are called \"varieties\". For example, the English language is spoken differently in the US, the UK and Australia, and even within English-speaking countries there are hundreds of dialects of English that each signals a belonging to a particular region and/or subculture. For example, in the UK the cockney dialect signals its speakers' belonging to the group of lower class workers of east London. Differences between varieties of the same language often consist in different pronunciations and vocabulary, but also sometimes of different grammatical systems and very often in using different styles (e.g. cockney rhyming slang or lawyers' jargon). Linguists and anthropologists, particularly sociolinguists, ethnolinguists and linguistic anthropologists have specialized in studying how ways of speaking vary between speech communities.\n\nA community's ways of speaking or signing are a part of the community's culture, just as other shared practices are. Language use is a way of establishing and displaying group identity. Ways of speaking function not only to facilitate communication, but also to identify the social position of the speaker. Linguists call different ways of speaking language varieties, a term that encompasses geographically or socioculturally defined dialects as well as the jargons or styles of subcultures. Linguistic anthropologists and sociologists of language define communicative style as the ways that language is used and understood within a particular culture.\n\nThe difference between languages does not consist only in differences in pronunciation, vocabulary or grammar, but also in different \"cultures of speaking\". Some cultures for example have elaborate systems of \"social deixis\", systems of signalling social distance through linguistic means. In English, social deixis is shown mostly though distinguishing between addressing some people by first name and others by surname, but also in titles such as \"Mrs.\", \"boy\", \"Doctor\" or \"Your Honor\", but in other languages such systems may be highly complex and codified in the entire grammar and vocabulary of the language. In several languages of east Asia, for example Thai, Burmese and Javanese, different words are used according to whether a speaker is addressing someone of higher or lower rank than oneself in a ranking system with animals and children ranking the lowest and gods and members of royalty as the highest. Other languages may use different forms of address when speaking to speakers of the opposite gender or in-law relatives and many languages have special ways of speaking to infants and children. Among other groups, the culture of speaking may entail \"not speaking\" to particular people, for example many indigenous cultures of Australia have a taboo against talking to one's in-law relatives, and in some cultures speech is not addressed directly to children. Some languages also require different ways of speaking for different social classes of speakers, and often such a system is based on gender differences, as in Japanese and Koasati.\n\nThe modern anthropological concept of culture has its origins in the 19th century with German anthropologist Adolf Bastian's theory of the \"psychic unity of mankind,\" which, influenced by Herder and von Humboldt, challenged the identification of \"culture\" with the way of life of European elites, and British anthropologist Edward Burnett Tylor's attempt to define culture as inclusively as possible. Tylor in 1874 described culture in the following way: \"Culture or civilization, taken in its wide ethnographic sense, is that complex whole which includes knowledge, belief, art, morals, law, custom, and any other capabilities and habits acquired by man as a member of society.\" Although Tylor was not aiming to propose a general theory of culture (he explained his understanding of culture in the course of a larger argument about the nature of religion), American anthropologists have generally presented their various definitions of culture as refinements of Tylor's. Franz Boas's student Alfred Kroeber (1876–1970) identified culture with the \"superorganic,\" that is, a domain with ordering principles and laws that could not be explained by or reduced to biology. In 1973, Gerald Weiss reviewed various definitions of culture and debates as to their parsimony and power, and proposed as the most scientifically useful definition that \"culture\" be defined \"as our generic term for all human nongenetic, or metabiological, phenomena\" (italics in the original).\nFranz Boas founded modern American anthropology with the establishment of the first graduate program in anthropology at Columbia University in 1896. At the time the dominant model of culture was that of cultural evolution, which posited that human societies progressed through stages of savagery to barbarism to civilization; thus, societies that for example are based on horticulture and Iroquois kinship terminology are less evolved than societies based on agriculture and Eskimo kinship terminology. One of Boas's greatest accomplishments was to demonstrate convincingly that this model is fundamentally flawed, empirically, methodologically, and theoretically. Moreover, he felt that our knowledge of different cultures was so incomplete, and often based on unsystematic or unscientific research, that it was impossible to develop any scientifically valid general model of human cultures. Instead, he established the principle of cultural relativism and trained students to conduct rigorous participant observation field research in different societies. Boas understood the capacity for culture to involve symbolic thought and social learning, and considered the evolution of a capacity for culture to coincide with the evolution of other, biological, features defining genus Homo. Nevertheless, he argued that culture could not be reduced to biology or other expressions of symbolic thought, such as language. Boas and his students understood culture inclusively and resisted developing a general definition of culture. Indeed, they resisted identifying \"culture\" as a thing, instead using culture as an adjective rather than a noun. Boas argued that cultural \"types\" or \"forms\" are always in a state of flux. His student Alfred Kroeber argued that the \"unlimited receptivity and assimilativeness of culture\" made it practically impossible to think of cultures as discrete things.\n\nBoas's students dominated cultural anthropology through World War II, and continued to have great influence through the 1960s. They were especially interested in two phenomena: the great variety of forms culture took around the world, and the many ways individuals were shaped by and acted creatively through their own cultures. This led his students to focus on the history of cultural traits: how they spread from one society to another, and how their meanings changed over time—and the life histories of members of other societies. Others, such as Ruth Benedict (1887–1948) and Margaret Mead (1901–1978), produced monographs or comparative studies analyzing the forms of creativity possible to individuals within specific cultural configurations. Essential to their research was the concept of \"context\": culture provided a context that made the behavior of individuals understandable; geography and history provided a context for understanding the differences between cultures. Thus, although Boasians were committed to the belief in the psychic unity of humankind and the universality of culture, their emphasis on local context and cultural diversity led them away from proposing cultural universals or universal theories of culture.\n\nThere is a tension in cultural anthropology between the claim that culture is a universal (the fact that all human societies have culture), and that it is also particular (culture takes a tremendous variety of forms around the world). Since Boas, two debates have dominated cultural anthropology. The first has to do with ways of modeling particular cultures. Specifically, anthropologists have argued as to whether \"culture\" can be thought of as a bounded and integrated thing, or as a quality of a diverse collection of things, the numbers and meanings of which are in constant flux. Boas's student Ruth Benedict suggested that in any given society cultural traits may be more or less \"integrated,\" that is, constituting a pattern of action and thought that gives purpose to people's lives, and provides them with a basis from which to evaluate new actions and thoughts, although she implies that there are various degrees of integration; indeed, she observes that some cultures fail to integrate. Boas, however, argued that complete integration is rare and that a given culture only appears to be integrated because of observer bias. For Boas, the appearance of such patterns—a national culture, for example—was the effect of a particular point of view.\n\nThe first debate was effectively suspended in 1934 when Ruth Benedict published \"Patterns of Culture\", which has continuously been in print. Although this book is well known for popularizing the Boasian principle of cultural relativism, among anthropologists it constituted both an important summary of the discoveries of Boasians, and a decisive break from Boas's emphasis on the mobility of diverse cultural traits. \"Anthropological work has been overwhelmingly devoted to the analysis of cultural traits,\" she wrote \"rather than to the study of cultures as articulated wholes.\" Influenced by Polish-British social anthropologist Bronisław Malinowski, however, she argued that \"The first essential, so it seems today, is to study the living culture, to know its habits of thought and the functions of its institutions\" and that \"the only way in which we can know the significance of the selected detail of behavior is against the background of the motives and emotions and values that are institutionalized in that culture.\" Influenced by German historians Wilhelm Dilthey and Oswald Spengler, as well as by gestalt psychology, she argued that \"the whole determines its parts, not only their relation but their very nature,\" and that \"cultures, likewise, are more than the sum of their traits.\" She observed that \"Just as each spoken language draws very selectively from an extensive, but finite, set of sounds any human mouth (free from defect) can make, she concluded that in each society people, over time and through both conscious and unconscious processes, selected from an extensive but finite set of cultural traits which then combine to form a unique and distinctive pattern.\" Further, Benedict argues\n\nAlthough Benedict felt that virtually all cultures are patterned, she argued that these patterns change over time as a consequence of human creativity, and therefore different societies around the world had distinct characters. \"Patterns of Culture\" contrasts Zuňi, Dobu and Kwakiutl cultures as a way of highlighting different ways of being human. Benedict observed that many Westerners felt that this view forced them to abandon their \"dreams of permanence and ideality and with the individual's illusions of autonomy\" and that for many, this made existence \"empty.\" She argued however that once people accepted the results of scientific research, people would \"arrive then at a more realistic social faith, accepting as grounds of hope and as new bases for tolerance the coexisting and equally valid patterns of life which mankind has created for itself from the raw materials of existence.\"\n\nThis view of culture has had a tremendous impact outside of anthropology, and dominated American anthropology until the Cold War, when anthropologists like Sidney Mintz and Eric Wolf rejected the validity and value of approaching \"each culture\" as \"a world in itself\" and \"relatively stable.\" They felt that, too often, this approach ignored the impact of imperialism, colonialism, and the world capitalist economy on the peoples Benedict and her followers studied (and thus re-opened the debate on the relationship between the universal and the particular, in the form of the relationship between the global and the local). In the meantime, its emphasis on metamorphosing patterns influenced French structuralism and made American anthropologists receptive to British structural-functionalism.\n\nThe second debate has been over the ability to make universal claims about all cultures. Although Boas argued that anthropologists had yet to collect enough solid evidence from a diverse sample of societies to make any valid general or universal claims about culture, by the 1940s some felt ready. Whereas Kroeber and Benedict had argued that \"culture\"—which could refer to local, regional, or trans-regional scales—was in some way \"patterned\" or \"configured,\" some anthropologists now felt that enough data had been collected to demonstrate that it often took highly structured forms. The question these anthropologists debated was, were these structures statistical artifacts, or where they expressions of mental models? This debate emerged full-fledged in 1949, with the publication of George Murdock's \"Social Structure\", and Claude Lévi-Strauss's \"Les Structures Élémentaires de la Parenté\".\n\nOpposing Boas and his students was Yale anthropologist George Murdock, who compiled the Human Relations Area Files. These files code cultural variables found in different societies, so that anthropologists can use statistical methods to study correlations among different variables. The ultimate aim of this project is to develop generalizations that apply to increasingly larger numbers of individual cultures. Later, Murdock and Douglas R. White developed the standard cross-cultural sample as a way to refine this method.\n\nFrench anthropologist Claude Lévi-Strauss's structuralist anthropology brought together ideas of Boas (especially Boas's belief in the mutability of cultural forms, and Bastian's belief in the psychic unity of humankind) and French sociologist's Émile Durkheim's focus on social structures (institutionalized relationships among persons and groups of persons). Instead of making generalizations that applied to large numbers of societies, Lévi-Strauss sought to derive from concrete cases increasingly abstract models of human nature. His method begins with the supposition that culture exists in two different forms: the many distinct structures that could be inferred from observing members of the same society interact (and of which members of a society are themselves aware), and abstract structures developed by analyzing shared ways (such as myths and rituals) members of a society represent their social life (and of which members of a society are not only \"not\" consciously aware, but which moreover typically stand in opposition to, or negate, the social structures of which people \"are\" aware). He then sought to develop one universal mental structure that could only be inferred through the systematic comparison of particular social and cultural structures. He argued that just as there are laws through which a finite and relatively small number of chemical elements could be combined to create a seemingly infinite variety of things, there were a finite and relatively small number of cultural elements which people combine to create the great variety of cultures anthropologists observe. The systematic comparison of societies would enable an anthropologist to develop this cultural \"table of elements,\" and once completed, this table of cultural elements would enable an anthropologist to analyze specific cultures and achieve insights hidden to the very people who produced and lived through these cultures. Structuralism came to dominate French anthropology and, in the late 1960s and 1970s, came to have great influence on American and British anthropology.\n\nMurdock's HRAF and Lévi-Strauss's structuralism provide two ambitious ways to seek the universal in the particular, and both approaches continue to appeal to different anthropologists. However, the differences between them reveal a tension implicit in the heritage of Tylor and Bastian. Is culture to be found in empirically observed behaviors that may form the basis of generalizations? Or does it consist of universal mental processes, which must be inferred and abstracted from observed behavior? This question has driven debates among biological anthropologists and archeologists as well.\n\nIn structural functionalism, as a social theory, society is viewed as \"a reality of structural and cultural components or \"facts\" that can be investigated\". Thus in the 1940s the Boasian understanding of culture was challenged by that new paradigm for anthropological and social science research. This paradigm developed independently but in parallel in both the United Kingdom and in the United States (In both cases it is \"sui generis\": it has no direct relationship to \"structuralism\" except that both French structuralism and Anglo-American Structural-Functionalism were all influenced by Durkheim. It is also analogous, but unrelated to, other forms of \"functionalism\"). Whereas the Boasians viewed anthropology as that natural science dedicated to the study of humankind, structural functionalists viewed anthropology as one social science among many, dedicated to the study of one specific facet of humanity. This led structural-functionalists to redefine and minimize the scope of \"culture.\"\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the creation of structural functionalism was anticipated by Raymond Firth's (1901–2002) \"We the Tikopia\", published in 1936, and marked by the publication of \"African Political Systems\", edited by Meyer Fortes (1906–1983) and E.E. Evans-Pritchard (1902–1973) in 1940. In these works these anthropologists forwarded a synthesis of the ideas of their mentor, Bronisław Malinowski (1884–1942), and his rival, A. R. Radcliffe-Brown (1881–1955). Both Malinowski and Radcliffe-Brown viewed anthropology—what they call \"social anthropology\"—as that branch of sociology that studied so-called primitive societies. According to Malinowski's theory of functionalism, all human beings have certain biological needs, such as the need for food and shelter, and humankind has the biological need to reproduce. Every society develops its own institutions, which function to fulfill these needs. In order for these institutions to function, individuals take on particular social roles that regulate how they act and interact. Although members of any given society may not understand the ultimate functions of their roles and institutions, an ethnographer can develop a model of these functions through the careful observation of social life. Radcliffe-Brown rejected Malinowski's notion of function, and believed that a general theory of primitive social life could only be built up through the careful comparison of different societies. Influenced by the work of French sociologist Émile Durkheim (1858–1917), who argued that primitive and modern societies are distinguished by distinct social structures, Radcliffe-Brown argued that anthropologists first had to map out the social structure of any given society before comparing the structures of different societies. Firth, Fortes, and Evans-Pritchard found it easy to combine Malinowski's attention to social roles and institutions with Radcliffe-Brown's concern with social structures. They distinguished between \"social organization\" (observable social interactions) and \"social structure\" (rule-governed patterns of social interaction), and shifted their attention from biological functions to social functions. For example, how different institutions are functionally integrated, and the extent to, and ways in, which institutions function to promote social solidarity and stability. In short, instead of culture (understood as all human non-genetic or extra-somatic phenomena) they made \"sociality\" (interactions and relationships among persons and groups of people) their object of study. (Indeed, Radcliffe-Brown once wrote \"I should like to invoke a taboo on the word \"culture\".\")\n\nCoincidentally, in 1946 sociologist Talcott Parsons (1902–1979) founded the Department of Social Relations at Harvard University. Influenced by such European sociologists as Émile Durkheim and Max Weber, Parsons developed a theory of social action that was closer to British social anthropology than to Boas's American anthropology, and which he also called \"structural functionalism.\" Parson's intention was to develop a total theory of social action (why people act as they do), and to develop at Harvard an inter-disciplinary program that would direct research according to this theory. His model explained human action as the result of four systems:\n\nAccording to this theory, the second system was the proper object of study for psychologists; the third system for sociologists, and the fourth system for cultural anthropologists. Whereas the Boasians considered all of these systems to be objects of study by anthropologists, and \"personality\" and \"status and role\" to be as much a part of \"culture\" as \"norms and values,\" Parsons envisioned a much narrower role for anthropology and a much narrower definition of culture.\n\nAlthough Boasian cultural anthropologists were interested in norms and values, among many other things, it was only with the rise of structural functionalism that people came to identify \"culture\" with \"norms and values.\" Many American anthropologists rejected this view of culture (and by implication, anthropology). In 1980, anthropologist Eric Wolf wrote,\n\nNevertheless, several of Talcott Parsons' students emerged as leading American anthropologists. At the same time, many American anthropologists had a high regard for the research produced by social anthropologists in the 1940s and 1950s, and found structural-functionalism to provide a very useful model for conducting ethnographic research.\n\nThe combination of American cultural anthropology theory with British social anthropology methods has led to some confusion between the concepts of \"society\" and \"culture.\" For most anthropologists, these are distinct concepts. Society refers to a group of people; culture refers to a pan-human capacity and the totality of non-genetic human phenomena. Societies are often clearly bounded; cultural traits are often mobile, and cultural boundaries, such as they are, can be typically porous, permeable, and plural. During the 1950s, and 1960s anthropologists often worked in places where social and cultural boundaries coincided, thus obscuring the distinction. When disjunctures between these boundaries become highly salient, for example during the period of European de-colonization of Africa in the 1960s and 1970s, or during the post-Bretton Woods realignment of globalization, however, the difference often becomes central to anthropological debates.\n\nParsons' students Clifford Geertz and David M. Schneider, and Schneider's student Roy Wagner, went on to important careers as cultural anthropologists and developed a school within American cultural anthropology called \"symbolic anthropology,\" the study of the social construction and social effects of symbols. Since symbolic anthropology easily complemented social anthropologists' studies of social life and social structure, many British structural-functionalists (who rejected or were uninterested in Boasian cultural anthropology) accepted the Parsonian definition of \"culture\" and \"cultural anthropology.\" British anthropologist Victor Turner (who eventually left the United Kingdom to teach in the United States) was an important bridge between American and British symbolic anthropology.\n\nAttention to symbols, the meaning of which depended almost entirely on their historical and social context, appealed to many Boasians. Leslie White asked of cultural things, \"What sort of objects are they? Are they physical objects? Mental objects? Both? Metaphors? Symbols? Reifications?\" In \"Science of Culture\" (1949), he concluded that they are objects \"sui generis\"; that is, of their own kind. In trying to define that kind, he hit upon a previously unrealized aspect of symbolization, which he called \"the symbolate\"—an object created by the act of symbolization. He thus defined culture as \"symbolates understood in an extra-somatic context.\"\n\nNevertheless, by the 1930s White began turning away from the Boasian approach. He wrote,\n\nAlthough this view echoes that of Malinowski, the key concept for White was not \"function\" but \"adaptation.\" Whereas the Boasians were interested in the history of specific traits, White was interested in the cultural history of the human species, which he felt should be studied from an evolutionary perspective. Thus, the task of anthropology is to study \"not only how culture evolves, but why as well... In the case of man ... the power to invent and to discover, the ability to select and use the better of two tools or ways of doing something— these are the factors of cultural evolution.\" Unlike 19th century evolutionists, who were concerned with how civilized societies rose above primitive societies, White was interested in documenting how, over time, humankind as a whole has through cultural means discovered more and more ways for capturing and harnessing energy from the environment, in the process transforming culture.\n\nAt the same time that White was developing his theory of cultural evolution, Kroeber's student Julian Steward was developing his theory of cultural ecology. In 1938, he published \"Basin-Plateau Aboriginal Socio-Political Groups\" in which he argued that diverse societies—for example the indigenous Shoshone or White farmers on the Great Plains—were not less or more evolved; rather, they had adapted to different environments in different ways. Whereas Leslie White was interested in culture understood holistically as a property of the human species, Julian Steward was interested in culture as the property of distinct societies. Like White he viewed culture as a means of adapting to the environment, but he criticized Whites \"unilineal\" (one direction) theory of cultural evolution and instead proposed a model of \"multilineal\" evolution in which (in the Boasian tradition) each society has its own cultural history.\n\nWhen Julian Steward left a teaching position at the University of Michigan to work in Utah in 1930, Leslie White took his place; in 1946 Julian Steward was made Chair of the Columbia University Anthropology Department. In the 1940s and 1950s their students, most notably Marvin Harris, Sidney Mintz, Robert Murphy, Roy Rappaport, Marshall Sahlins, Elman Service, Andrew P. Vayda and Eric Wolf dominated American anthropology. Most promoted materialist understandings of culture in opposition to the symbolic approaches of Geertz and Schneider. Harris, Rappaport, and Vayda were especially important for their contributions to cultural materialism and ecological anthropology, both of which argued that \"culture\" constituted an extra-somatic (or non-biological) means through which human beings could adapt to life in drastically differing physical environments.\n\nThe debate between symbolic and materialist approaches to culture dominated American anthropologists in the 1960s and 1970s. The Vietnam War and the publication of Dell Hymes' \"Reinventing Anthropology\", however, marked a growing dissatisfaction with the then dominant approaches to culture. Hymes argued that fundamental elements of the Boasian project such as holism and an interest in diversity were still worth pursuing: \"interest in other peoples and their ways of life, and concern to explain them within a frame of reference that includes ourselves.\" Moreover, he argued that cultural anthropologists are singularly well-equipped to lead this study (with an indirect rebuke to sociologists like Parsons who sought to subsume anthropology to their own project):\n\nIt is these elements, Hymes argued, that justify a \"general study of man,\" that is, \"anthropology\".\n\nDuring this time notable anthropologists such as Mintz, Murphy, Sahlins, and Wolf eventually broke away; experimenting with structuralist and Marxist approaches to culture, they continued to promote cultural anthropology against structural functionalism.\n\nBoas and Malinowski established ethnographic research as a highly localized method for studying culture. Yet Boas emphasized that culture is dynamic, moving from one group of people to another, and that specific cultural forms have to be analyzed in a larger context. This has led anthropologists to explore different ways of understanding the global dimensions of culture.\n\nIn the 1940s and 1950s, several key studies focused on how trade between indigenous peoples and the Europeans who had conquered and colonized the Americas influenced indigenous culture, either through change in the organization of labor, or change in critical technologies. Bernard Mishkin studied the effect of the introduction of horses on Kiowa political organization and warfare. Oscar Lewis explored the influence of the fur trade on Blackfoot culture (relying heavily on historical sources). Joseph Jablow documented how Cheyenne social organization and subsistence strategy between 1795 and 1840 were determined by their position in trade networks linking Whites and other Indians. Frank Secoy argued that Great Plains Indians' social organization and military tactics changed as horses, introduced by the Spanish in the south, diffused north, and guns, introduced by the British and French in the east, diffused west.\nIn the 1950s, Robert Redfield and students of Julian Steward pioneered \"community studies,\" namely, the study of distinct communities (whether identified by race, ethnicity, or economic class) in Western or \"Westernized\" societies, especially cities. They thus encountered the antagonisms 19th century critics described using the terms \"high culture\" and \"low culture.\" These 20th-century anthropologists struggled to describe people who were politically and economically inferior but not, they believed, culturally inferior. Oscar Lewis proposed the concept of a \"culture of poverty\" to describe the cultural mechanisms through which people adapted to a life of economic poverty. Other anthropologists and sociologists began using the term \"sub-culture\" to describe culturally distinct communities that were part of larger societies.\n\nOne important kind of subculture is that formed by an immigrant community. In dealing with immigrant groups and their cultures, there are various approaches:\n\nThe way nation states treat immigrant cultures rarely falls neatly into one or another of the above approaches. The degree of difference with the host culture (i.e., \"foreignness\"), the number of immigrants, attitudes of the resident population, the type of government policies that are enacted, and the effectiveness of those policies all make it difficult to generalize about the effects. Similarly with other subcultures within a society, attitudes of the mainstream population and communications between various cultural groups play a major role in determining outcomes. The study of cultures within a society is complex and research must take into account a myriad of variables.\n"}
{"id": "33995954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33995954", "title": "Anti-monumentalism", "text": "Anti-monumentalism\n\nAnti-monumentalism (or Counter-monumentalism) is a philosophy in art that denies the presence of any imposing, authoritative social force in public spaces. It developed as an opposition to monumentalism whereby authorities (usually the state or dictator) establish monuments in public spaces to symbolize themselves or their ideology, and influence the historical narrative of the place. According to artist Rafael Lozano-Hemmer, anti-monument \"refers to an action, a performance, which clearly rejects the notion of a monument developed from an elitist point of view as an emblem of power.\" Krzysztof Wodiczko's \"Bunker Hill Monument Projections\" and Do-Ho Suh's \"Public Figures\" can be considered examples of anti-monumentalism.\n"}
{"id": "20788303", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20788303", "title": "Armenians in Bangladesh", "text": "Armenians in Bangladesh\n\nThe Armenians in Bangladesh are ethnic Armenians who lived in what is now called Bangladesh. Their numbers have diminished significantly, but there is a notable presence in the country, particularly in Dhaka.\nThere was a fairly large Armenian colony in Dhaka during the early part of the 18th century, most of whom were engaged in the jute trade. Prominent Armenian jute merchants had their own companies, like Messrs Sarkies & Sons, Messrs David & Co., etc. Gradually, the jute business was monopolised by the more powerful and better-organised British firms. The early Armenian settlers built a small chapel in the midst of their community graveyard. By the end of the 18th century, the Armenian community had grown considerably, and the chapel was found inadequate for the needs of the community, so it was replaced by the Holy Resurrection Church. The church was completed in 1781 and consecrated by Bishop Ephreim. A belfry was added in 1837. In 1910 a parsonage was added and the floor of the church was decorated with marble, and electric lights.\n\nThe Armenian Apostolic Church of Holy Resurrection of Dhaka still remains today.\n\nThe Armenian community of Dhaka played a significant role in Bengali trade and commerce in the 17th and 18th centuries. In the early part of 18th Century, Armenians settled in Dhaka, then one of the commercial centres in Bengal. They initially built a chapel and cemetery at Tejgaon, five miles from Dhaka. The oldest tombstone is “Avetis” an Armenian merchant who died on 15 August 1714. Apart from Dhaka there was a significant Armenian presence in Saidabad (a suburb of the capital Murshidabad), Hoogli, Kolkata, Chinsura, Patna and Kasimbazar. A neighborhood in Dhaka, Armanitola, bears their name; there is the Church of the Holy Resurrection and the cemetery established by the community in 1781 standing as major landmarks. Their assertive presence, however, began to decline from the beginning of British rule. Michael Joseph Martin (Mikel Housep Martirossian) is reported to have been the last Armenian in Dhaka.\n\n"}
{"id": "3627271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3627271", "title": "Aztec philosophy", "text": "Aztec philosophy\n\nAztec philosophy was a school of philosophy that developed out of Aztec culture. The Aztecs had a well-developed school of philosophy, perhaps the most developed in the Americas and in many ways comparable to Ancient Greek philosophy, even amassing more texts than the ancient Greeks. Aztec philosophy focused on dualism, monism, and aesthetics, and Aztec philosophers attempted to answer the main Aztec philosophical question of how to gain stability and balance in an ephemeral world.\n\nAztec philosophy saw the concept of \"Ometeotl\" as a unity that underlies the universe. Ometeotl forms, shapes, and is all things. Even things in opposition—light and dark, life and death—were seen as expressions of the same unity, Ometeotl. The belief in a unity with dualistic expressions compares with similar dialectical monist ideas in both Western and Eastern philosophies.\n\nAztec priests had a panentheistic view of religion but the popular Aztec religion maintained polytheism. Priests saw the different gods as aspects of the singular and transcendent unity of Teotl but the masses were allowed to practice polytheism without understanding the true, unified nature of their Aztec gods.\n\nAztec philosophers focused on morality as establishing balance. The world was seen as constantly shifting with the ever-changing teotl. Morality focused on finding the path to living a balanced life, which would provide stability in the shifting world.\n\nAztec philosophy saw the arts as a way to express the true nature of teotl. Art was considered to be good if it in some way brought about a better understanding of teotl. Aztec poetry was closely tied to philosophy and often used to express philosophic concepts. Below is an example of such a poem, translated from the original Nahuatl:\n\n\"No one comes on this earth to stay\"<br>\n\"Our bodies are like rose trees - \"<br>\n\"They grow petals then wither and die.\"<br>\n\"But our hearts are like grass in the springtime,\"<br>\n\"They live on and forever grow green again.<br>\"\n\nThere is a dearth of material from which Aztec philosophy can be studied with a majority of extant texts written after conquest by either Spanish colonists and missionaries, or Christianised Spanish educated natives. Pre-conquest sources include the Codex Borgia and the Codex Borbonicus (written about the time of conquest). Post-conquest texts include the Florentine Codex, Codex Mendoza and the Codex Magliabechiano, including others.\n\n\nSources:\n"}
{"id": "651004", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=651004", "title": "Balinese caste system", "text": "Balinese caste system\n\nThe Balinese caste system is a system of social organization similar to the Indian caste system.\n\nThe four castes of Bali are:\n\nNote the similarity of the castes to the four \"varnas\" \"(shudra, vaishya, kshatriya, brahmin)\" of India.\n\nPre-modern Bali had four castes, as Jeff Lewis and Belinda Lewis state, but with a \"very strong tradition of communal decision-making and interdependence\". The four castes have been classified as Soedra (Shudra), Wesia (Vaishyas), Satrias (Kshatriyas) and Brahmana (Brahmin).\n\nThe 19th-century scholars such as Crawfurd and Friederich suggested that Balinese caste had Indian origins, but Helen Creese states that scholars such as Brumund who had visited and stayed on the island of Bali suggested that his field observations conflicted with the \"received understandings concerning its Indian origins\". In Bali, the Shudra (locally spelled \"Soedra\") have typically been the temple priests, though depending on the demographics, a temple priest may also be from the other three castes. \n\nIn most regions, it has been the Shudra who typically make offerings to the gods on behalf of the Hindu devotees, chant prayers, recite \"meweda\" (Vedas), and set the course of Balinese temple festivals.\n\nThe members of the four castes use different levels of the Balinese language to address members of a different caste. Middle Balinese is generally used to speak to people whose caste is unknown in an encounter. Once the caste status of the participants are established, the proper language is used to address each other.\n\nNowadays, the caste system is used more in religious settings where the members of the lower caste would ask the members of the Brahman caste (the Pedandas) to conduct ceremonies. Since the Dutch colonial years and more recently after the Indonesian independence, the differences in the economic roles of the members of the caste system are slowly eroding as the government prohibits treatments based on the caste system.\n\nMost of the Kshatriya families in Java and Bali became extinct during the fall of the Majapahit and the numerous Javanese wars. Almost all of the Balinese Kshatriyas trace their origin to the royal family of King Deva Agung, who ruled 500 years before. Some of the original Kshatriyas, like those claiming descent from Arya Damar were relegated to Wesia status, so only those claiming descent from Deva Agung are recognized as proper Kshatriya in Bali.\n\nDuring the 1950s and 1960s there were conflicts between supporters of the traditional caste system in Bali and its opponents. Many of the latter were affiliated with the PKI, the Communist Party of Indonesia, which was violently oppressed during the Indonesian killings of 1965–1966.\n\n"}
{"id": "3719895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3719895", "title": "Banat Swabians", "text": "Banat Swabians\n\nThe Banat Swabians are an ethnic German population in Southeast Europe, part of the Danube Swabians.\n\nThey emigrated in the 18th century to what was then the Austrian Empire's Banat of Temeswar province, later included in the Habsburg Kingdom of Hungary, a province which had been left sparsely populated by the wars with Turkey. At the end of World War I in 1918, the Swabian minority worked to establish an independent multi-ethnic Banat Republic; however, the province was divided by the Treaty of Versailles of 1919, and the Treaty of Trianon of 1920. The greater part was annexed by Romania, a smaller part by former Yugoslavia, and a small region around Szeged remained part of Hungary.\n\nFollowing World War II most Banat Swabians were expelled to the West by the Soviet Union and its subsidiaries, and after 1990 and the fall of the Soviet Union and its republics many of those remaining left for economic and emotional reasons.\n\nThe Banat colonists are often grouped with other German-speaking ethnic groups in the area under the name \"Danube Swabians\". Besides the Banat, these groups lived in nearby western Bačka in Vojvodina, Serbia, in Swabian Turkey (present-day southern Hungary), in Slavonia, (present-day Croatia), and in Satu Mare, Romania. All of these areas were under Austrian rule, when the Crown recruited German immigrants, particularly farmers. It wanted to repopulate the lands newly recovered from Turkish occupation and to revive agriculture in an area that had been frequently overrun by war.\n\nImmigrants were encouraged to settle in the Banat by the Austrian emperors in the 18th century to repopulate a frontier province bordering the Turkish empire, and to add an ethnic European Christians to the population of the newly occupied region. The Germans were offered free land and the privilege of keeping their language and religion. The Crown was seeking Roman Catholic immigrants, as were the Italian and the Spanish colonists who had come to the region. Most of the German settlers came from Alsace-Lorraine, Austria, Bavaria, Franconia, and the Palatinate. A small group can be traced to Middle Germany. However, comparatively few came from the Swabian regions of what was then known as Further Austria. It is unclear how the group came to be called the Banat \"Swabians\", but it is probably because the majority registered and embarked from the Swabian city of Ulm. They were transported on the \"Ulmer Schachteln\" (barges) down the Danube to Budapest or Belgrade, whence they set off on foot for their new homes.\n\nThe colonists were generally the younger sons of poor farming families, who saw little chance of success at home. Under Maria Theresa, they received financial support and long-term tax relief. Many of the earliest immigrants never married, since few German women traveled among them. Craftsmen were financially encouraged, as were teachers, doctors, and other professionals. Over the decades and more, the German spoken by these colonists became separate from that developing in Germany, particularly after its unification. It became known as Donau-Swabian, an archaic form of the language.\n\nThose who came from French-speaking or linguistically mixed communes in Lorraine maintained the French language (labelled Banat French or \"Français du Banat\"), as well as a separate ethnic identity for several generations.\n\nBeginning with 1893, because of the Magyarisation policies of the nationalistic Hungarian State, some Banat Swabians began to move to Bulgaria, where they settled in the village of Bardarski Geran, Vratsa Province, founded earlier by Banat Bulgarians. Their number eventually exceeded 90 families. In 1929 they built a separate Roman Catholic church after disagreements with Bulgarian Catholics. Some of these German-speaking families later moved to Tsarev Brod, Shumen Province along with a handful of Banat Bulgarian families who went to another Banat Bulgarian village, Gostilya, Pleven Province.\n\nBetween 1941 and 1943, 2,150 ethnic German Bulgarian citizens were relocated to Germany as part of Hitler's \"Heim ins Reich\" policy. These included 164 Banat Swabians from Bardarski Geran and 33 from Gostilya.\n\nThe collapse of the Austro-Hungarian rule and its replacement by Romanian rule over the Banat after World War I had some benefits. In the late 19th century, Hungary had undergone a period of rapid Magyarization, during which it attempted to assimilate all of its minorities. Schools were required to teach only in the Hungarian language.\n\nUnder Romanian rule, Banat Swabians could have German-language schools again for the first time since 1868. Banat Swabian culture flourished. A German-language theatre operated in Timişoara, and across Banat, German-language newspapers were established. In 1921 a cultural association called the \"Verband der Deutschen in Rumaenien\" (Union of Germans in Romania) was founded.\n\nEconomically, however, things did not go well. The Crash of the Stock Market on Black Friday and the subsequent financial crises of the Great Depression in the 1930s hit the Banat hard. Many Swabians left to work in Argentina, Brazil, and the United States, never to return.\n\nAfter 1933, the Nazi Party gained some influence among the ethnic Germans of Eastern Europe, including the Banat Swabians. During the Second World War, many ethnic Germans were conscripted into the Romanian Army and served on the Eastern Front. After 1943, a German-Romanian treaty allowed them to serve instead in the Wehrmacht, without having to give up their Romanian citizenship. Initially, some were virtually forced to serve in the 7th SS Volunteer Mountain Division Prinz Eugen, fearing there would be sanctions against their families if they refused. After August 1941 Nazi German instituted involuntary conscription of Banat Swabians into the SS. Towards the end of the war, some Banat Swabians openly opposed the Nazis, who in retaliation publicly executed a group of them in Jimbolia (Hatzfeld).\n\nBanat Swabians who served in the Prinz Eugen Division gained notoriety because of the division's war crimes against Jews and Serbs during the Banat (1941–1944) period. They became alienated and were distrusted by their non-Banat Swabian neighbors. This was one of the reasons Tito's Yugoslavia decided to incarcerate and starve to death all Banat Swabians who lived in Yugoslavia.\n\nThe Kingdom of Romania, formerly Nazi Germany's ally, joined the Allies on 23 August 1944. Overnight, all Banat Swabians in Romania became regarded as potential enemies of the state. The approach of the Red Army caused a flood of refugees to flee to the safety of Hitler's Germany.\n\nBy January 1945, Romania was completely under Soviet control. Early in 1945, under Stalin's orders, many Banat Swabians were expelled or deported to forced labor camps in the Soviet Union, where thousands of them died. Those who remained had their land confiscated and lost ownership of their homes (partially returned during the 1950s), while those who fled also lost their citizenship. In 1951 more than a thousand Banat Swabians were displaced to the Bărăgan Steppe of southeast Romania, where they founded new villages. Almost all were finally allowed to return home in 1956, but some were kept interned by force until 1963.\n\nSome Swabian families from both Romanian and Yugoslavian Banat managed to flee to Germany in the immediate postwar years. Others were helped by French Prime Minister Robert Schuman to settle in France as \"Français du Banat\".\n\nIn the 1960s, however, the political atmosphere relaxed. The policy of disfranchising and dispossessing alleged Nazi collaborators within the German-speaking minority ended. Banat Swabians were extended the full rights of Romanian citizenship. Nevertheless, many Banat Swabians chose to use the looser conditions to emigrate to Germany, since they no longer trusted Romania's communist government's promises. The Transylvanian Saxons, who had lived in the region since the Middle Ages, made a similar decision. Even though the Swabian families of the Danube and Banat Swabians had lived there for ten generations or more, and their cultures had developed quite differently from Germany's, they no longer felt safe.\n\nIn 1965, Nicolae Ceauşescu came to power in Romania. At first he opened the country to the West, but by the end of the 1970s, he had become ultra-nationalistic and an opponent of all ethnic minorities. Under his rule, any Banat Swabian who chose to emigrate had to pay a bounty of more than a thousand marks (depending on age and education) for a permanent emigration visa. Still, thousands of Banat Swabians left each year into the 1980s. An economic crisis of the communist state, as well as a rumor concerning a village destruction project, caused some 200,000 to flee Romania.\n\nAfter Ceaușescu's fall in 1989 and German Reunification in 1990, almost all the remaining Banat Germans in Romania left for Germany. As a consequence, the ethnic German population in Romania is greatly reduced. Some are returning, generally entrepreneurs with economic ambitions supported by the German non-returnable grants for development projects outside Germany. Some former Banat Swabians now have a renewed desire to return to their long-time home, but most had to sell their property when they left and have no home to return to.\n\nOf the 750,000 ethnic Germans who once lived in Romania, less than one-tenth of that number remain today. Only in cities with large populations is there still a functioning German cultural life, usually aided by uninterrupted Romanian State subsidies and help from ethnic Romanians. Still, the \"Allgemeine Deutsche Zeitung\" is a thriving weekly paper, and the German State Theater in Timişoara (\"Deutsches Staatstheater Temeswar\"), subsidized by the Romanian government, produces permanent theatre shows. In Timişoara and Arad, there are German-language primary and secondary schools, attended mostly by Romanian students. The remaining ethnic Germans (including Banat Swabians) in Romania are represented in politics by the DFDR or \"Demokratisches Forum der Deutschen in Rumänien\" (Democratic Forum of Germans in Romania).\n\nWhile the Swabians from other areas of Yugoslavia escaped or were expelled, the destiny of Banat and Bačka Swabians was much less fortunate. Due to the high level of military conscription, mostly women, children and elderly people remained in the villages, and they were unwilling or unable to flee. Near the end of the war, all Swabians who were suspected of having been involved with the Nazi military administration were placed in provisional internment camps. Many were tortured, and at least 5,800 were killed. Others were used as forced labor. After Christmas in 1944, about 30,000 younger people, mostly women, were transferred to labor camps in the Soviet Union by train, escorted by communist partisans.\n\nIn the framework of agricultural reform, partisan families - mainly migrants from war-torn Bosnia, Lika and Montenegro— took over the confiscated Swabian farms and houses. In March 1945, the surviving Swabians were ghettoized in \"village camps\", later described as \"extermination camps\" by the survivors, where the death rate ranged as high as 50%.\n\nThe most notorious camp was at Knićanin (formerly Rudolfsgnad), where an estimated 11,000 to 12,500 Swabians died. The situation improved in 1947, when foreign humanitarian aid reached the camps, and their work routines were loosened. The camp system was closed in March 1948, with the surviving inmates being conscripted for forced labor in the army or industry. Their flight also was usually tolerated. By the end of the 1950s, about 300,000 Yugoslav Swabians had managed to emigrate to Western countries, including the United States.\n\nAccording to a study conducted in 1961 by the German historian Hans-Ulrich Wehler, later supported by German emigrant organizations, at least 7,200 Swabians were executed by the Partisans, about 2,000 deported to the Soviet Union, and roughly 48,000 died in labor camps. About 16.8% of the Swabians in Yugoslavia died during and after the war.\n\nThe Serbian census from 2002 records only 3,901 Germans in Serbia, 3,154 of whom were in the province of Vojvodina. In December 2007 the remaining Swabians formed their own minority council in Novi Sad, having gained the required 3,000 voter signatures. The president, Andreas Biegermeier, stated the council would focus on property restitution, as well as marking mass graves and camp sites. He estimated the total number of remaining Danube Swabians in Serbia and their descendants as between 5,000 and 8,000.\n\nIn Hungary fewer than 62,000 Danube Swabians remain, but they do have political representation. One city and several villages have German-speaking mayors . Expulsion of the Swabian minority from Hungary by the communist government, dictated by Soviet Union, took place between 1945 and 1948. As a result, many have assimilated and changed their ethnicity to become Magyars as well in Hungary as former Yugoslavia and Romania.\n\nThe Banat Swabians who emigrated to Germany are generally well integrated into the society in which they live. They keep contact through cultural organisations (\"Landsmannschaften\"). In Vienna and in southern Germany, where most Banat Swabians now live, some maintain their customs and dialect, and offer support to those who remain in Romania.\n\nBanat Swabians in the United States, whose ancestors emigrated beginning in the 1950s, have also formed community associations, including one in the New York metropolitan area, one in the Detroit area, and one in the Cincinnati area.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14852762", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14852762", "title": "Beti language", "text": "Beti language\n\nBeti is a group of Bantu languages, spoken by the Beti-Pahuin peoples who inhabit the rain forest regions of Cameroon, Republic of the Congo, Equatorial Guinea, Gabon, and São Tomé and Príncipe. The varieties, which are largely mutually intelligible and variously considered dialects or closely related languages, are:\n\nBeti had an ISO 639-3 code, but this was retired in 2010 because the varieties of Beti already had their own codes.\n\nThere is a Beti-based pidgin called Ewondo Populaire.\n"}
{"id": "26561771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26561771", "title": "Capital punishment in Aruba", "text": "Capital punishment in Aruba\n\nCapital punishment in Aruba has been prohibited by Article I.4 of the Constitution of Aruba since January 1, 1986, the day Aruba became a constituent country of the Kingdom of the Netherlands in its own right. The inclusion of a capital punishment prohibition in the constitution was following the example provided by the 1983 constitution of the Netherlands, but rather than putting it in the judiciary section like the example, it was put in the basic rights, following the related Article I.3 about the inviolability of the body, to ensure that the prohibition would not be perceived as exclusively applying to judges.\n"}
{"id": "23082942", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23082942", "title": "Chennai Trekking Club", "text": "Chennai Trekking Club\n\nThe Chennai Trekking Club (CTC) is a voluntary nonprofit organization whose members meet weekly for outdoor recreation, environmental education and social responsibility activities. The club was established on 22 February 2008 by a small group of trekking enthusiasts in Chennai, India. It started as an informal group of several friends in the computer industry and quickly grew into a 10,000+ member organization that primarily facilitates trekking as an organized sport.\n\nCTC mainly organizes 2-3 day weekend treks in and around South India. It also organizes related activities such as short treks for disadvantaged people and walks for charity, nature photography tours, one day hikes and workshops on navigation using GPS, photography, first aid and survival skills. CTC has organized more than 300 treks and more than 500 new members join each month.\n\nThe Chennai Trekking Club (CTC) was started by a few trekking enthusiasts from CISCO, Thoraipakkam, Chennai a few years ago. In February 2008, after completing around 10 treks throughout South India this small group published their adventures and photos online in their blog, and allowed new people to join their group. After that, many people found them by word of mouth or on Google and joined the club. There is no membership fee. Three years later they have 10,000+ members in the club, with over 6,000 active members who have participated in at least one trek. On average over 15 new members join every day. CTC has completed over 300 treks throughout India.\n\nSeveral trekking destinations undertaken by the club include: Anaikatti, Barapalli, Charmadi Ghat, Chembra Peak, Coorg, Pune Forts, Javadi Hills, Kalrayan Hills, Kolli Hills, Kondaveedu Fort, Nagalapuram, Nagari, Ombattu Gudde, Ootacamund, Palani Hills, Parvadhamalai, Pulicat, Roopkund, Sakleshpur, Savandurga, Skandagiri, Tada, Tadiyandamol, Tadkalpudipeak, Talakona, Tirumala, Top Slip, Vavulmala, Vellarimala, Venkatagiri, Venkateshwara, Wayanad, Yelagiri, Yercaud\n\nFor their 2nd anniversary celebration on 20–21 February 2010, CTC organized 14 simultaneous treks for 444 members. For their 3rd anniversary celebration on 19–20 February 2011, CTC organized 14 simultaneous treks for 427 members.\n\nCTC organizes member-led treks during weekends, and travels through mountains and wilderness areas in the Eastern Ghats and the Western Ghats. Occasionally, long treks are organized in the Himalayas. CTC's growth is attributed to a large fan base, mainly in South India, and to the volunteers who spend many hours researching and organizing the treks. It also has members from outside India, mainly expatriates who live or lived in Chennai and Bangalore and became part of CTC. In addition to providing a nice break from urban and corporate life, activities organized by CTC stimulate awareness of environmental issues and encourages physical fitness among its members. Chennai Trekking Club organizes periodic photography trips and treks especially for those members who are interested in Natural and Wildlife photography. Photography workshops for members are also conducted by experienced wildlife photographers.In addition to all these things CTC organizes Social Treks with unprivileged kids, Tree Plantation & Maintenance activities, Lake cleanup, Beach cleanup.CTC also organises yearly Trail Marathons and trained hundreds of aspiring runners.\n\nSeveral core members volunteer weeks in advance to plan and organize each trek. CTC leaders are known as \"pathfinders\". They often do not follow existing trails but trek through unexplored jungles and mountains creating their own trail using topographic maps, compass and GPS (satellite guided navigation).\n\nThe leaders and volunteers of CTC organize treks every weekend. Sometimes there may be 3-4 simultaneous treks on any given weekend. Treks are planned to forests & wilderness both nearby Chennai as well as further away in the Eastern Ghats and Western Ghats in Tamil Nadu, Karnataka, Andhra Pradesh, Kerala and occasionally, North India. Levels of treks goes from easy to intermediate to difficult. The number of participants for a trek varies typically between 10 and 40.\n\nIn addition to the regular treks, CTC organizes a variety of other events. Periodically they organize social outings for underprivileged groups in the Chennai area, including: orphans, street children lost or run away from home, destitute women, downs Syndrome kids, AIDS victims and other disadvantaged groups. CTC periodically organizes educational workshops like first aid and survival skills training, training on maps and navigation, photography workshops, climbing events and snake workshops. They also organize ladies treks, senior treks, couples treks and family treks. They periodically organize long distance multiday motorcycling trips over mountain roads and trail riding through scenic locations.\n\nCTC has programs to keep the forests clean - in addition to their no-pollution guidelines, periodic cleanup events are organized to clean up polluted natural locations. On 1 November 2009, 200+ members of CTC organized a mega cleanup trek to Tada which had become very polluted and abused over the past several years. On 9 January 2011, over 800 volunteer members collected 800 bags of garbage from of the beaches of Chennai.\n\nOn 11 March 2018, a group of trekkers on their way from Kolukkumalai, trekking downhill towards Kurangani got trapped by wildfire. This group included 27 members of a 2-day trek organized by CTC to celebrate Woman’s Day and another 12 member group on a trek organized by a private tour company. 3 of the trekkers reportedly turned back before the rest faced the wildfire. Unfortunately, 16 trekkers lost their lives in the disaster.\n\nChennai Trekking Club allowed children in the trek that met with Theni Forest Fire Disaster, but later it was revealed that there was another group of trekkers from Erode, on a trekking tour organized by a private tour company. It was this company who allowed three children in the trek. It was also reported in the media that Chennai Trekking Club had organised the trekking without proper permission or approval from the authorities. Chennai Trekking Club has disputed this claim and this is currently under investigation.\n\nCTC members also document landscapes and wildlife discovered during the treks. Photos are geo-tagged, published and shared on the CTC blog and the photographers' own Picassa pages. CTC has published more than 30,000 photos taken during their treks.\n\nCTC's has an extensive presence on the Internet, mostly built using Google tools. Treks and photos are published using Blogger on their blog. CTC also has online communities on Facebook. Most information regarding the group and its treks is published in their Google blog. The group maintains an active photography blog and discussion forum. Past and future treks are published on their Google Calendar and Google Maps. New treks are also announced on google groups.\n\nThe club has had over 45 news stories and feature articles about the club and its activities published in the local print media including The Hindu, Economic Times, Deccan Chronicle, Times of India, Indian Express and several Tamil Language dailies.\n\n"}
{"id": "13139078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13139078", "title": "Chinese people in Iran", "text": "Chinese people in Iran\n\nChinese people in Iran form one of the smaller groups of overseas Chinese; Iran's total Chinese population is estimated at between 2,000 and 3,000 people.\n\nDuring the Safavid dynasty, Abbas I (reigned 1587–1629) brought 300 Chinese potters to Iran to enhance local production of Chinese-style ceramics. From E. Sykes's \"Persia and Its People\": \"Early in the seventeenth century, Shah Abbas imported Chinese workmen into his country to teach his subjects the art of making porcelain, and the Chinese influence is very strong in the designs on this ware. Chinese marks are also copied, so that to scratch an article is sometimes the only means of proving it to be of Persian manufacture, for the Chinese glaze, hard as iron, will take no mark.\"\n\nOf the Chinese Li family in Quanzhou, Li Nu, the son of Li Lu, visited Hormuz in Persia in 1376, converted to Islam, married a Persian or an Arab woman, and brought her back to Quanzhou. Li Nu was the ancestor of the Ming Dynasty reformer Li Chih.\n\nIn 1756, the Dutch reported that 80 Chinese families lived in Kharg Island, where they worked as farmers.\n\nThe numbers of expatriates from the People's Republic of China began to increase noticeably between 2002 and 2005.\n\nMost modern Chinese expatriates work on construction or other engineering projects; a few run import/export companies or other small businesses. Large-scale investment projects are also becoming more common; businessmen from Zhejiang began building Iran's first Chinese trade complex in 2006. The 330,000 square-metre site in the south of the country, located five kilometres from Khorramshahr and twenty kilometres from the Iraqi border, is expected to contain 1,500 businesses and cost RMB600 million to complete.\n\nOne \"People's Daily\" reporter described Chinese people in Iran often have trouble adapting to local life. They live in a separate sphere from Iranians. Most cannot speak much Persian. Because the number of Chinese in the country is so small, Chinese people are typically taken to be Koreans or Japanese people instead, unlike in other countries where the opposite mistake is more common. Chinese cuisine is largely unavailable. Aside from Chinese people married to Iranians, international students are the group of Chinese in Iran best integrated into mainstream society, in terms of lifestyle and language. Their total number is estimated at roughly 100; unlike other Chinese residents, most live outside of Tehran, because the number of scholarships offered by universities in the capital has been decreasing. There is a small Chinatown in Iran built on a Chinese theme, known as Mahale Chiniha.\n\n"}
{"id": "37104757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37104757", "title": "ConventionCamp", "text": "ConventionCamp\n\nConvention Camp is a conference on digital future, social media and web culture. It takes place annually since 2008 at Hanover fairground and is the largest BarCamp in Germany.\n\nThe Convention Camp was launched in 2008 by the publisher \"yeebase media\" and the web agency \"w3design\". The first event was held on October 2, 2008 at the University of Hanover. It initially focused knowledge management and social media software for companies in the foreground.\n\nThe second event was held on November 26, 2009. Beginning 2010, the \"Institute for Marketing and Management\" of the University of Hannover supports the ConventionCamp.\n\nOn November 8, 2011, the fourth ConventionCamp took place. In the background of Stuttgart 21 and Occupy Wall Street, focus of the program was the relationship of society and the Internet. A total of 1,500 visitors attended the conference. In the evening the \"t3n Web Awards\" were awarded for the best German websites in several categories.\n\nIn 2012, Julian Assange has taken part by videoconference. In other sessions for example speaker \"Markus Franz\" posed the question of the Wikipedias in the future.\n\nThe Convention Camp is a mix of classic conference with fixed program and unconference where early visitors can submit their own proposals. With 1,500 participants, the last ConventionCamp is currently (as of September 2012) the largest BarCamp and after the \"re:publica\" the second largest conference on Internet issues in Germany. The topics discussed at the event reach a wide reception in the trade press, including the participation of prominent speakers contribute.\n\nThe ConventionCamp or its initiators were awarded in March 2011 with the so-called LIDA Award. The abbreviation LIDA stands for \"Leader in the Digital Age\", patron of the award was the Lower Saxony Minister of Economics Jörg Bode.\n\n"}
{"id": "41030671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41030671", "title": "Corruption in Australia", "text": "Corruption in Australia\n\nThis article discusses Corruption in Australia, in both private sector and public sectors.\n\nCorruption in Australia is relatively uncommon when compared to other nations worldwide. Transparency International's 2016 Corruption Perceptions Index ranks the country 13th place out of 176 countries.\n\nPublic sector corruption in Australia is similar to that in other developed nations like Canada and Norway as of 2014. However, according to this same index, corruption perception is increasing in Australia. In the 2015 Index Australia ranked 13th, dropping six positions since 2012.\n\nThe phenomenon has also been studied by the Australian National University, which produced a report called \"Perceptions of Corruption and Ethical Conduct\" (2012), which concluded: \"there is a widespread perception that corruption in Australia has increased\" and that \"the media, trade unions and political parties were seen as Australia's most corrupt institutions.\n\nResearch published in 2015 by Chartered Accountants Australia and New Zealand found government and private firms in Australia and nearby New Zealand both display widespread \"complacent\" attitudes about corruption, particularly in regards to companies bidding for government contracts.\n\nIn January 2018, a discussion paper published by the Australia Institute, suggested that the trust in the Australian government is at a historical low, which could have reduced the GDP by as much as 4% or $72.3 billion.\n\nA report by Australian Public Service Commission's released in 2018, stated that investigations were conducted in only 0.3% of the workforce, meaning a total of 596 employees.\n\nAustralia has a strong record of global, regional and domestic action to prevent and expose corrupt activity. These include the G20 Anti-Corruption Working Group, APEC Anti-Corruption and Transparency Working Group and the United Nations Convention against Corruption Working Groups.\n\nMost Australians regard the acceptance of luxury gifts by Australian politicians to be a form of corruption through bribery.\n"}
{"id": "52361361", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52361361", "title": "Czech Tourist Club", "text": "Czech Tourist Club\n\nCzech Tourist Club (, KČT), known also as Czech Hiking Club was created in 1888. With over 40.000 members, it is a large organisation responsible for maintaining the dense Czech Hiking Markers System.\n"}
{"id": "59127289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59127289", "title": "Denise Gottfredson", "text": "Denise Gottfredson\n\nDenise Claire Gottfredson (née Denise Claire Ruff) is an American criminologist and professor in the Department of Criminal Justice and Criminology at the University of Maryland, College Park. She is an expert on school violence and juvenile delinquency. She is recognized for her research applying the techniques of program evaluation to certain crime prevention initiatives, such as Drug Abuse Resistance Education, the Strengthening Families Program, and the Baltimore City Drug Treatment Court. She has also researched the effects of school resource officers on schools, finding that such officers spend an average of about half of their time engaged in law enforcement activities. She served as vice president of the American Society of Criminology (ASC) from 2005 to 2006, and as editor-in-chief of its journal, \"Criminology\", from 2005 to 2011. She received the ASC's August Vollmer Award in 2016. She is a fellow of the ASC and of the Academy of Experimental Criminology.\n\nGottfredson earned her B.A. in psychology from Fairleigh Dickinson University in 1974 and her Ph.D. in social relations from Johns Hopkins University in 1980. She became an assistant professor at the University of Maryland, College Park's Department of Criminal Justice and Criminology in 1991, and was promoted to full professor there in 1995.\n\n"}
{"id": "7536920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7536920", "title": "Desicritics", "text": "Desicritics\n\nDesicritics is an online magazine that explores the world from the perspective of Desis, that is, people from South Asia. It provides news and opinion with a global South Asian perspective. The site is over four years old, and is recognized as \"a leading source of information in the Indian Blogosphere.\"\n\nThe site was launched on January 26, 2006 by Aaman Lamba, who previously worked with Eric Olsen on Blogcritics. \n\nThe site features articles from over 700 bloggers from around the world that cover a wide range of topics, from the \"macaca\" scandal to the assassination of Pakistani tribal chieftain Akbar Bugti. Desicritics covers news in the areas of culture, politics, business, sports, media and technology among others. The site also features fiction from up and coming authors. \n\nDesicritics aims to deal with South Asia in particular, including about what South Asians think about any what topic, as well as non-\"desis\" viewpoints on global topics. Articles are syndicated by numerous news aggregator sites and online magazines including IndiaSphere, Topix, Indianpad and mytoday.com. Desicritics.org also serves as an official news source for Google. Desicritics was a finalist in the Best Asian Blog category of the Web Log Awards 2006.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31898604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31898604", "title": "Emil Wiesel", "text": "Emil Wiesel\n\nEmíl Wíesel (1 March 1866, Saint-Petersburg – 2 May 1943, Leningrad) – a painter, museum curator and a board member of the Imperial Academy of Arts, Russia (since 1914), organizer of international art exhibitions, councilor of Hermitage and Russian museum and Legion of Honor holder. During soviet times he was an expert in Russian and Western fine arts and sculpture in the Glavnauka (central administrative board of science, science-artistic and museum institutions) museum department.\n\nEmil Oskarovich Wiesel (Wiesel Emil Anton Joseph) – baron, the son of Acting State Councilor (rank in civil service in pre-1917 Russia), descended from the German-Austrian Wiesel family.\n\nFather – Oskar Borisovich Wiesel (Wiesel Oscar Sigismund), born in Russia in 1826, graduated from Prince Bezborodko's Gymnasium of Higher Learning in Nizhyn (nowadays Nizhyn Gogol State University), worked in the Russian Ministry of Finance, repeatedly visited Berlin, Amsterdam, Paris on behalf of their Majesties tsars Alexander II and Alexander III.\n\nMother – Marie Christine de Pointin was born in 1835. Her father Fransois de Pointin who had family roots from the French province of Picardy was born at Louis XVIII's court in exile in Warsaw. He was notable for building the silver iconostasis of the Kazan Cathedral (St. Petersburg) and was awarded the Order of St. Anna by graf Yuliy Pompeevich Litte (ital., Giulio Renato de Litta Visconti Arese).\n\nBrother – Oskar Oskarovich Wiesel (Wiesel Osсar Bernhard Franz) was born in Russia in 1864. Graduated as a lawyer, worked in Spitsbergen and in Switzerland as a Russian consul, later as a general consul in Italy (Napoli) in rank of acting state councilor.\n\nWife – Alexandra Emilievna Straus (Strauss Alexandra Hermina) (1866–1939) studied in Kiev gymnasium and passed a course of applied art at the Imperator’s artists encouragement society in St.Petersburg in the fields of “china-ware painting” and “wood carving”.\nEmil Wiesel graduated from St.Petersburg University, from physics and mathematics faculty. His interest in drawing and painting induced him at the same time to attend evening lessons at school of the Imperator’s artists encouragement society, which was followed by attending the Imperial Academy of Arts. Subsequently he proceeded his education in Munich at Alexander von Wagner’s studio, there he mastered the drawing technique typical for this school, which includes the well-defined outline and highly detailed image.\n\nLater, together with his friend, Ivan Endogurov, also an artist, he moved to Paris. There they were admitted to Fernand Cormon’s studio, which was famous during that period, being a place where academism could contest with the strengthening impressionism. Cormon’s classes were attended by such distinctive artists as Henri de Toulouse-Lautrec and Vincent van Gogh. It was Cormon who showed Wiesel new graphic methods that became a basis of his impressionistic picture technique that relied not on the outline but on treatment of light and shade. Wiesel has also studied in Académie Colarossi in Paris.\n\nWiesel was recognized as a mature artist after his and Endogurov’s paintings were started to exhibit in Paris Salons (1894 and 1901). At the beginning of the 20th century Emil Wiesel performed a portrait series of his eminent contemporaries: graf Vladimir Kokovtsev, academician Alexander Karpinsky, astronomer Sergey Glazenap, artist Ilya Repin, physician Gundobin N.P., singer Leonid Sobinov, ballet dancers Marie Petipa and Galina Ulanova, composers Pyotr Ilyich Tchaikovsky, Nikolai Rimsky-Korsakov, Ilya Glazunov and others. On demand he created portraits of the presidents of the Academy of Arts, tsar’s family members, and later Vladimir Lenin. A particular place in his heritage is given to numerous pictures performed in his impressionistic manner reflecting his love for St.Petersturg and its surroundings: impressions on his events, journeys and meetings with various people.\n\nHis portraits in oil paint and a huge series of pictures of Vladimir Sofronitsky are run through with lyricism. Wiesel worked in painting and graphic arts using oil, watercolor, gouache, Indian ink, Italian and lead pencils. He proved himself as a master in the portrait, landscape, interior imaging, and scenic genre.\n\nWiesel’s pictures are stored and exhibited in museums of Moscow, St. Petersburg, Saratov and Kazan. The Theatre museum in St. Petersburg keeps his watercolor and pencil scenes and actors sketches. A part of Wiesel’s documents, correspondence and pictures are kept by the Academy of Arts, the Bibliotheca named after Mikhail Saltykov-Shchedrin, and the St. Petersburg History Museum. The first personal exhibition was held at the date of the 100th anniversary in 1966 in the Academy of Arts Museum. More than 160 Wiesel’s canvases were exhibited in 1998 in Kazan Museum of Fine Arts together with other pictures of the members of Wiesel dynasty. The Emil Wiesel's art heritage was exhibited twice in 2012:\n\nIn 1894 Emil Wiesel was invited to become the assistant to the curator of the Academy of Arts Museum. It was a Wiesel’s initiative to found new department in the Imperial Academy of Arts. He took part in the Russian Museum’s collection development (1898). He reissued a new charter, held reorganizations, supported provincial museum launches and controlled their activities.\n\nIn 1900 Wiesel went to Paris as a representative of Russia to run the Russian department of fine arts at the international exhibition. The French government appreciated his activities and granted him with a Legion of Honor. Later he organized the Russian departments of fine arts at the international exhibitions in Munich (1901), Brussels (1910), Rome (1911), and Turin (1913). In 1914 Emil Wiesel was chosen to become a full member of the Imperial Academy of Arts. He worked as a Russian and Western fine arts and sculpture expert in the committee in Glavnauka (the central administrative board of science, the science-artistic institution and the museum institution) museum department and a councilor of the Hermitage and Russian museums.\nDuring the revolution Emil Wiesel evacuated the Academy of Arts Museum’s collections to Moscow in order to save the masterpieces, and later returned them back to Pertograd (St.Petersburg).\n\nEmil Wiesel also performed scientific work: he performed reports and wrote articles in mass media on the topic of museums activities. He participated in cataloguing the exhibits of the Academy of Arts Museum (1915). There survives his fundamental scientific work “The interrelation of visual perceptions and the expression of fine art” (1930).\n\nDuring the period of Stalin’s repressions, Emil Wiesel, his wife, his son Oscar Wiesel (ethno-linguist, professor of Institute of Oriental Studies in Leningrad (St. Petersburg)) with his wife Vera Sholpo, and Emil’s grandson Andrey Wiesel were sent to Kazakhstan, to the village Chelkar (1935). Despite financial and living difficulties, Emil Wiesel and Vera Sholpo, both artists, continued creating portraits and landscapes, now on the Central Asian plot. Emil Wiesel and his wife managed to return to Leningrad after two years thanks to a close family friend Vladimir Sofronitsky. One year later his son Oscar Wiesel and family also left Kazakhstan. Since they were not allowed to settle in Moscow or Leningrad, they chose Kazan as a place of living, a city with a university, rich with museums, theaters and intellectual and artistic life, where both an artist and a linguist could find a job.\n\nThe Siege of Leningrad was the last challenge to Emil Wiesel. He died at the age of 77 years in 1943.\n\nSaint-Petersburg, 4th Line (Liniya), Vasilyevsky Island, 1.\n\nThe family Wiesel owned a house on the Medumi lake (Medumi, Latvia), and the village Grinishki (nowadays Teteri, Latvia).\n\n"}
{"id": "57349014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57349014", "title": "Entuzjastki", "text": "Entuzjastki\n\nEntuzjastki was a Polish women's organisation, counted as the first women's organisation in Poland. It was a progressive association founded in 1830 by a group of women intellectuals in favor of equal rights between men and women. It encouraged the independence of women and regarded education, professional life and the economic independence this gave as the means to achieve this. \n\nThe organisation was centered around Narcyza Żmichowska. Among its members where Emilia Gosselin, Wiktoria Lewińska, Zofia Mielęcka-Węgierska, Bibianna Moraczewska, Faustyna Morzycka, Kryspina Siewielińska-Stelmowska, Anna z Sokołowskich Skimborowiczowa, Wincenta Zabłocka, Paulina Zbyszewska and Kazimiera Ziemięcka.\n\n"}
{"id": "55477410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55477410", "title": "Football Lads Alliance", "text": "Football Lads Alliance\n\nThe Football Lads Alliance (FLA) is a movement in the United Kingdom founded by John Meighan in 2017. According to \"The Times\", \"the movement was set up as a self-proclaimed 'anti-extremist' movement\" but has increasingly become associated with far-right politics and far-right activists.\n\nThe Premier League has warned clubs that \"the group is using fans and stadiums to push an anti-Muslim agenda\". Concern has also been expressed that the Alliance is \"giving cover to the far right\" and \"uses a secret Facebook page full of violent, racist and misogynistic posts\".\n\nFollowing a number of terror attacks in the UK, including the Westminster Bridge attack (22 March 2017) and the bombing of Manchester Arena (22 May 2017), a group of Tottenham Hotspur (Spurs) supporters organised a march in London, June 2017 against extremism, led by Spurs supporter John Meighan. \n\nThe FLA was registered as a private company in August 2017. A store was opened online selling t-shirts, hoodies and caps. \n\nThe second FLA march was in October 2017, present were members \"Veterans Against Terrorism\" (VAT), an advocacy group made up of claimed military veterans which opposes what it describes as \"Islamist extremists\". The Institute for Strategic Dialogue (ISD) monitored the FLA’s social media posts as part of their ongoing research into extremist movements and tactics online. It reported that, in less than a year, the FLA has moved to the right.\n\nFLA organized a campaign selling pin badges featuring the poppy symbol of the Royal British Legion donating sums collected to the Legion. The charity however returned a £1,104 donation back to the FLA on 11 April 2018 saying that, \"a small number of FLA supporters have expressed views and opinions that are not compatible with the values of The Royal British Legion.\" \n\nFLA founder Meighan stood down on 16 April 2018 saying that the company would be dissolved.\n\nAn FLA march was held on 19 May 2018 to mark the first anniversary of Manchester Arena bombing with around 200 attending. An opposition rally was organized with around 800 with speakers from anti-racist and anti-fascist movements, local councillors and trade union bodies.\n\nThe organisation split over certain issues, with some senior activists setting up the Democratic Football Lads Alliance (DFLA or the \"Democratic FLA\" or \"true FLA\"). It has adopted the slogan \"Against All Extremism\". The DFLA leader and march organiser is Phillip Hickin.\n\nOn 13 October 2018, the DLFA staged a rally in central London which was stopped by anti-fascist protesters, and resulted in violence against the police. Later that week, Premier League club, West Ham United suspended their under-18s coach, Mark Phillips, following his attendance at the DFLA rally. The club said \"We have a zero tolerance policy to any form of violent or abusive behaviour. We continue to protect and cherish those values and we remain committed to ensuring that every single member of the West Ham family feels safe, respected and included.\"\n"}
{"id": "35725902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35725902", "title": "Gal language", "text": "Gal language\n\nGal is a Madang language of Papua New Guinea. It is closely related to Baimak, and sometimes goes by that name.\n\n"}
{"id": "1371871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1371871", "title": "Gang rape", "text": "Gang rape\n\nGang rape occurs when a group of people participate in the rape of a single victim. Rape involving at least two or more violators (typically at least three) is reported throughout the world. Systematic information and statistics on the extent of the problem is limited.\n\nOne study showed that offenders and victims in gang rape incidents were younger and more likely to be unemployed compared to cases of rape by one perpetrator. Gang rapes involved more alcohol and drug use, night attacks and severe sexual assault outcomes and less victim resistance and fewer weapons than individual rapes. Another study found that group sexual assaults were more violent and had greater resistance from the victim than individual sexual assaults and that victims of group sexual assaults were more likely to seek crisis and police services, to contemplate suicide and seek psychotherapy than those involved in individual assaults. The two groups were about the same in the amount of drug use and drinking during the assault.\n\nGang rape is sometimes referred to as \"group rape\", \"party rape\", or \"multiple perpetrator rape\" in scholarly literature.\n\nGang rapes often involve three or more men as perpetrators. These rapes have characteristics beyond those found in rape by individuals; for example, gang rapists tend to be younger and serial in their crimes, the gang is more often under the influence of drugs or alcohol, of the same race or religion or place of residence thereby forming a close-knit peer pressure group, encouraged by the behavior of their fellow criminals. Gang rapes are more violent; the sexual and non-sexual injuries to the victim are often far more severe. The gang members typically dehumanize their target victim(s) before and during the rape.\n\nPorter and Alison have analyzed 739 gang rape cases from US and UK, and found over 20% of the gang rape victims died from injuries from the gang rape. A 2013 study based on 25 year crime data from US and Europe, between 10% to 20% of all rapes were gang rapes. Less than one in three gang rapes are reported, while less than 1 in 20 attempted but failed gang rapes are reported.\n\nA 2013 Lancet report on rape and gang rape in Bangladesh, China, Cambodia, Indonesia, Papua New Guinea, and Sri Lanka found that the crime was committed for various motives, such as sexual entitlement, seeking of entertainment, and a means to inflict punishment on the victim. Associated factors in the crime included alcohol misuse, poverty, personal history of childhood victimization, need to prove heterosexual performance, dominance over women, and participation in gangs and related activities. Most cases were not reported to law enforcement, and just 23% of single or multiple perpetrator rapes that were reported by the victims ended in prison sentence.\n\nGang rapes during civil wars and ethnic riots take added dimension of becoming a means of revenge, sending a message to the victims' community, inducing fear in the opponent, and creating a sense of solidarity among the soldiers or militants or the violent group.\n\nGang rape is sometimes stereotyped in media as a crime of poor, minorities, or culture; however, gang rape incidence rates are high in wealthy college campuses, among non-minorities and every culture. Everywhere there is a tendency to blame the victim; however, gang rapes are almost always premeditated in their intent, target victim(s), social proof, and psychological causes. Certain events such as civil wars, hate propaganda, and ethnic conflicts increase the incidence rate of gang rapes.\n\nAccording to one study, over 70% of the victims were gang raped by rapists of same race and religion. Most covered and debated gang rapes tend to be those involving victim and rapists of different race or religion or social class.\n\nGang rape can be interpreted as an example of a group criminal spin. Accordingly, a group of individuals may perform an initial behavior that proceeds in a criminal direction far beyond the initial intention of its participants. Within this process, each group member contributes a certain role towards the development of the criminal spin—even the passive members, who are silent participants, support the spin by their very presence. It is considered a group criminal spin because the most gang members perform this act only during a group interaction, \"letting themselves\" deviate from their everyday norms. On these occasions, the group interaction provides an \"I can\" component of a spin: Although each member does not usually sense an inner ability and permission to act in the criminal direction, i.e., to gang rape, the perceived power of the group supplies this sense and allows the act. In the same way, a group interaction may display an \"I must\" motive, thus social forces within the group directs it towards raping. In any case, the interaction of members of a group in a spin gives rise to self-centered norms that contribute to the further development of the criminal spin till the extreme point of an accomplishment of the rape.\n\nA 2013 Lancet study reports 1.9% of all rural men in Bangladesh have committed multiple perpetrator rape (gang rape) of a woman who was not a partner, compared to 1.4% urban men. 35% of those who have committed gang rapes against women have also committed additional rapes where the victim was a man. The motives of rape included a combination of reasons. Two thirds of the gang rape perpetrators claimed entertainment as their motive, 30% claimed they participated in gang rape out of anger and to inflict punishment on the victim, while 11% indicated the crime followed alcohol consumption.\n\nGang rape, or \"estupro coletivo\", is prevalent in Brazil. In the state of Rio de Janeiro alone, over 6,000 rapes are reported every year (or about 37 per 100,000 people). Nationwide, the rape rate varied between 26 and 32 per 100,000 women in 2009. The arrest rates on rape complaints, was 4% in Rio. About 19.6% of 2011 rapes were gang rapes.\n\nPeer pressure and sexual aggression are among the cited reasons for the crime. Since 1983, Canada does not track rape or gang rape statistics separately, but tracks and reports Sexual Assault Tier 3 which includes both rape and gang rape. The average Sexual Assault Tier 3 victim rate in Canada was 15 per 100,000 women, and 0 per 100,000 men, according to a 2013 Statistics Canada article.\n\nA 2013 Tianjin University survey claims 20% of men said they had physically abused their partner\n\nA Lancet study reports，an online survey of 980 Chinese men, 2.2% of them admitted to having committed gang rape (multiple perpetrator rape) of a non-partner woman. About 36% of the perpetrators had raped more than one woman, 50% of those who had committed gang rape had raped both partner as single perpetrator as well as non-partner during a gang rape, while 32% had gang raped a woman and raped a man. The study also found that 90% of the rapists were in the 15–29 age group at the time they perpetrated the first rape.\n\nIn July 2013, the son of a Chinese general was charged with four other men to being part of a gang rape. This case raised significant public anger over seemingly privileged treatment of elite gang rape criminals.\n\nOver two dozen gang rapes were reported during civil protests in Egypt from January to March 2013; however, activists claim that many more gang rapes often go unreported because most women are too ashamed to go to the police or even tell their relatives.\n\nDuring July 2013 at Tahrir Square, mobs assaulted and gang raped at least 46 women in 4 days. A Dutch journalist was also gang-raped in Tahrir Square. A similar gang rape and gang beating was reported by an American journalist in 2011. In a separate survey, over 90% of Egyptian women claimed to have experienced sexual violence in their lifetime.\n\nBetween 5000 and 7000 gang rapes are reported in France every year.\n\nIn banlieues organised gang-rapes are referred to as , or \"pass-arounds\"). One of the first people to bring public attention to the culture of gang rape was Samira Bellil, who published a book called \"Dans l'enfer des tournantes\" (\"In Gang Rape Hell\").\n\nIn October 2012, two girls in Fontenay-sous-Bois on the outskirts of Paris reported experiencing daily gang rapes in the high-rise tower blocks, sometimes by scores of boys. One witness described 50 boys \"queuing\" to rape her. 10 of the 14 defendants who were minors at the time of gang rape were acquitted, while the remaining 4 adults found guilty were given 0 to 12 months in prison. This case shocked the country. In 2014, the case of a Canadian tourist allegedly gang raped by four police officers in Paris received international attention.\n\nIndia has been characterized as one of the \"countries with the lowest per capita rates of rape\". As with other countries, India does not collect separate data on gang rapes. Rapes are also suggested to be underreported.\n\nThe gang rape of a 23-year-old student on a public bus, on 16 December 2012 brought international attention, and sparked large protests across the capital of India, Delhi. Other reports include gang rape of an American tourist by three Nepalese men in Himachal Pradesh, gang rape where the victim and rapists were of different castes.\n\nReported cases of gang rape include Jakarta International School gang rape of a six-year-old, gang rape of a Malaysian student in Indonesia, and Aceh gang rape case where the victim was charged with adultery when she reported the crime.\n\nA Lancet study of Jakarta and Jayapura city on New Guinea island, found gang rape prevalence rate to be 2% and 6.8% of all Indonesian men respectively who, at some point in their lifetime, have committed multiple perpetrator rape. About 52% of the perpetrators had raped more than one woman, 64% of those who had committed gang rape had raped both partner as single perpetrator as well as non-partner during a gang rape, while 12% had gang raped a woman and raped a man. The study also found that 90% of the rapists in Indonesia were in the 15–29 age group when they committed their first rape.\n\nMany incidents of gang rapes have been reported in Iran. In several cases, the police officials have blamed the victim for not wearing \"hijab\", and in one case arresting the victim and two activists, who were trying to bring attention to the gang rape.\n\nWhile official statistics on reported and pending gang rapes in Iran are not published by the Iranian government, public hangings for gang rapes are routinely reported in Iranian newspapers.\n\nA 15-year-old schoolgirl in Ketereh Kelantan, was gang raped by more than 30 men. Malaysia reported about 3,000 rape cases in 2012, a rape incidence rate of about 10.7 rapes per 100,000 people. About 52% of these victims were less than 16 years old. Like other nations, Malaysia does not segregate rape and gang rape cases.\n\nNigeria reports thousands of gang rapes every year. In 2011, ABSU gang rape, where the gang videotaped their crime, drew widespread attention and protests inside Nigeria. The prevalence of group rape has been proposed as a significant contributor to spread of sexual diseases and AIDS.\n\nThe 2013 National Crime Data report for Pakistan suggest a current rape rate of 8.4 women per 100,000 population, of which about 10% were gang rapes.\n\nIn some cases such as Mukhtar Mai gang rape in Muzaffargarh, village elder's council (\"jirga\") in Pakistan have ordered that the girl in a family be gang-raped as a means of punishing her brother, and this punishment was then carried out in public with everyone watching. In 2011, Pakistan's Supreme Court freed 5 men who committed the gang-rape because their action was on orders of the village council. Other gang rape cases reported in 2013 include Bahawalpur gang rape, Lahore gang rape, Peshawar gang rape, Karachi gang rape of a polio-disabled girl, among others.\n\nTrans women are not immune. In 2018, a trans woman from Peshawar was kidnapped and raped by eleven men, who filmed the assault and shared it on social media.\n\nA Lancet study reports 14.1% of all men admitted to having committed gang rape (multiple perpetrator rape) of a non-partner woman sometime in their lifetime. 44% of these perpetrators had raped more than 1 woman over their lifetime. In Papua New Guinea, 25% of the first rape was committed at a juvenile age less than 15, while in 70% of the cases the perpetrator's age was 15–29 at the time of first crime.\n\nThe Qatif rape case was a 2006 gang rape of a teenage girl by seven men. The justice received criticism because the victim was lashed 200 times.\n\nGang rapes occur frequently in South Africa, and in certain parts it is called \"jackrolling\". South Africa reported over 64,000 rapes in 2012, or about 127.5 women per 100,000 population. With one woman raped every 4 minutes, South Africa has world's highest rape incidence rate per 100,000 women. Between 10% to 33% of all rapes are gang rapes involving three or more people. About 25% of youth near Johannesburg described gang rape as recreational and fun.\n\nIn certain parts of South Africa where boys are often involved in gang rapes, called jackrolling, rape rates are higher. 40% of reported rape cases are on children below the age of 12.\n\nVogelman and Lewis report 44% of rapists in South Africa have engaged in gang rape. The National Institute of Crime Rehabilitation of South Africa claims only 1 out of 20 rapes are reported in South Africa, suggesting 1,300 women are raped every day. A 2010 nationwide survey reported that about 27% of all South African men above the age of 18 have raped a woman in their lifetime one or more times, while 8.9% of all adult men have participated in a gang rape. The gang rape prevalence rate varied significantly in different provinces of South Africa; for example, in Eastern Cape, 13.9% of men had gang raped a woman who was not a partner.\n\nIn February 2013, a 17-year-old girl was gang raped, mutilated and left to die in a town near Cape Town. This led to widespread protests.\n\nReported gang rape cases include gang rape of a British tourist in Spain where one of the rapists was a 70-year-old man, and gang rape in Huelva of a 13-year-old girl with mental disability.\n\nOn 21 January 2017, in Uppsala, Sweden, Facebook users allegedly committed a live streaming crime, gang raping an unconscious woman for several hours. The crime was stopped when viewers of the Facebook live feed realized what was happening and phoned the police, who entered the apartment and interrupted the crime still in progress. As well as on 14 July 2017, in Västerås, Sweden, three Somalian 17-year-olds raped a 13-year-old girl multiple times. They were then sentenced with 8 months of youthcare and fined a total of 196 428 swedish crowns.\n\nIn several cases in 2013, the courts of the UAE have sentenced the gang raped woman to prison under its laws. For example, a British woman, after she reported being gang raped by three men, was charged with the crime of drinking alcohol in UAE; an Arab woman was sentenced to one year in prison for illicit sex after she complained of gang rape; an Australian woman was similarly sentenced to jail after she reported gang rape in the UAE, while a Norwegian woman was jailed for illicit sex when she reported rape by Arab men. In another case, an 18-year Arab woman withdrew her complaint of gang rape inside a car by six men when the prosecution threatened her with a long jail term for consensual sex with multiple men.\n\nAccording to ABC News, a French teenage boy was gang raped by three Dubai men. The authorities demanded that the tourist confess he is gay and that he asked for sex. The boy insisted he was raped and diplomatic pressure led to the arrest and conviction of the gang members.\n\nA number of gang rapes have taken place in the United Kingdom, although the UK authorities had not separately collected data on gang rapes until the 2011 Child Exploitation and Online Protection Centre report on localised grooming entitled \"Out of Mind, Out of Sight\", but which only deals with adolescent victims. However Scotland Yard earlier in 2009, stated a concern over the rise of 'gang sex attacks' in London, detailing an increase of 71 cases in 2003/2004 to 93 cases in 2008/2009.\n\nAn increased number of gang rapes have been reported in the United Kingdom since at least 1996. A 15-year-old girl in 1996, from Birmingham, was gang raped by three Asian males in their mid- to late-twenties. In the 1997 case, a 33-year-old Austrian tourist woman on visit to King's Cross, London was dumped in the Regent's Canal to drown after a gang-rape attack by eight teenagers. On 30 April 2007 at Hackney, East London, a 14-year-old girl was gang raped by six boys, who were later convicted. Two others, aged 14 and 16, did not participate but helped prevent her escape. In 2011, a 24-year-old woman was abducted and raped by three men after a night out in Preston, Lancashire. Two Kurdish men were convicted and sentenced; police are looking for the third attacker.\n\nMedia reports of gang rapes in the UK are often racially charged since late 2000. This due to a particular pattern of repeated non-white perpetrated gang rapes in the metropolitan areas. The Rochdale sex trafficking gang would later epitomise the phenomenon. The Home Office report of 2013 described these cases as '[showing] a particular model... of organised, serious exploitation and abuse that involves predominantly Pakistani-heritage men grooming and abusing predominantly white British girls.' The report stresses that the Government does not believe 'localised grooming' is intrinsic of any culture, religion, and or race, despite acknowledging the phenomenon\n\nIn March 2014, Crime Prevention Minister Norman Baker described \"ground breaking work\" to identify women and girls who can get drawn into gangs. \"Girls associated with gangs can face sexual violence and we have provided £1.2m for 13 Young People's Advocates to support those at risk,\" he said on the launch of a report by the Centre for Social Justice (CSJ), a think-tank established in 2002 by Iain Duncan Smith, another Cabinet minister. Baker said the government had set up a network of more than 70 people with experience of dealing with gangs to work with 33 of the worst affected areas of the country, including 20 in London. In one case cited by the CSJ report, a schoolgirl was abducted and sexually assaulted by nine males because she criticised a gang member. The report found that girls as young as eight were being used to carry drugs while female gang members in their teens were being pressured to have sex with boys as young as 10 to initiate males into gangs. A 2014 report by the Office of the Children's Commissioner suggested that almost 2,500 children had been known to be victims of child sexual exploitation by gangs and groups.\n\nThe US reports about 85,000 rapes a year, an average of 27.3 rapes per 100,000 population. There is a rape in the US every 6.2 minutes. As with other countries, the US does not collect separate data on gang rapes; Vogelman and Lewis estimate 25% of all rapes in the US are gang rapes. Another source indicates 21.8% of American rapes are gang rapes.\nA Roger Williams University study estimates from survey of crime data that 16% of all male rapists in the US participated in a gang rape crime.\n\nA 15-year-old girl in Chicago was gang raped on Facebook live in 2017 while watched by over 40 people. On a separate occasion two teens, one 15 years old and one 16, were gang raped by over 11 men.\n\nSome examples of gang rapes reported in local media in 2013 include the Cleveland, Texas gang rape, Richmond gang rape, New Orleans gang rape, St Paul gang rape, Miami gang rape/murder, Chicago gang rape, and Delaware park gang rape, among others.\n\nMajor ethnic conflicts and wars within the last 50 years have witnessed a campaign of gang rapes.\n\nThe Congo war saw thousands of gang rapes every week, with each relief center reporting 10 or more daily victims of gang rape with battering of women. The Rwandan genocide of 1994 witnessed numerous gang rapes by soldiers. Bosnia war during the 1990s saw a similar campaign of gang rapes.\n\nIn the 2000s, civil war-torn in countries such as Sudan, Afghanistan, Syria, and Pakistan reported high rates of gang rapes by government soldiers as well as Islamist militants. Similar incidents have been recorded in Libya, and Mali.\n\nTraditionally, the Cheyenne people of North America used gang rape as punishment for female transgressions. A similar practice existed among the Munduruku people of South America.\n\nAmong the Mpumalanga of South Africa, there are instances of gang rape as punishment. In countries such as Argentina and Pakistan, gang rape has been reported to have been ordered as punishment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "234371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234371", "title": "Governess", "text": "Governess\n\nA governess is a woman employed to teach and train children in a private household. In contrast to a nanny (formerly called a nurse), she concentrates on teaching children instead of meeting their physical needs. Her charges are of school age rather than babies.\n\nThe position of governess used to be common in well-off European families before the First World War, especially in the countryside where no suitable school existed nearby. Parents' preference to educate their children at home—rather than send them away to boarding school for months at a time—varied across time and countries. Governesses were usually in charge of girls and younger boys. When a boy was old enough, he left his governess for a tutor or a school.\n\nGovernesses are rarer now, except within large and wealthy households or royal families such as the Saudi royal family and in remote regions such as outback Australia. There has been a recent resurgence amongst families worldwide to employ governesses or full-time tutors. The reasons for this include personal security, the benefits of a tailored education, and the flexibility to travel or live in multiple locations.\n\nTraditionally, governesses taught \"the three Rs\" (reading, writing, and arithmetic) to young children. They also taught the \"accomplishments\" expected of middle class women to the young ladies under their care, such as French or another language, the piano or another musical instrument, and often painting (usually the more ladylike watercolours rather than oils) or poetry. It was also possible for other teachers (usually male) with specialist knowledge and skills to be brought in, such as, a drawing master or dancing master.\n\nThe governess occupied a uniquely awkward position in the Victorian household, because she was neither a servant nor yet a member of the host family. She worked in the upper-class home of the landed gentry or aristocracy. She herself had a middle-class background and education, yet was paid for her services. As a sign of this social limbo she frequently ate on her own, away from the rest of the family and servants. By definition, a governess was an unmarried woman who lived in someone else's home, which meant that she was subject to their rules. In any case, she had to maintain an impeccable reputation by avoiding anything which could embarrass or offend her employers. If a particular governess was young and attractive, the lady of the house might well perceive a potential threat to her marriage, and enforce the governess' social exclusion more rigorously. As a result of these various restrictions, the lifestyle of the typical Victorian governess was often one of social isolation and solitude, without the opportunity to make friends. The fact that her presence in the household was underpinned by an employment contract emphasized that she could never truly be part of the host family.\n\nHowever, being a governess was one of the few legitimate ways by which an unmarried middle class woman could support herself in Victorian society. Not surprisingly, her position was often depicted as one to be pitied, and the only way out of it was to get married. Unfortunately, it was difficult for a governess to find a suitable husband because most of the eligible men she encountered were her social superiors, who preferred a bride from within their own social class, particularly since such women generally had better financial resources.\n\nOnce a governess's charges grew up, she had to seek a new position, or, exceptionally, might be retained by the grown-up daughter as a paid companion.\n\nAn option for the more adventurous was to find an appointment abroad. The Russian Empire proved to be a relatively well-paid option for many. According to Harvey Pitcher in \"When Miss Emmie was in Russia: English Governesses before, during and after the October Revolution\", as many as thousands of English-speaking governesses went there. As English became the fashionable language of choice among the aristocracy during the later days of the regime, clearly they were displacing opportunities formerly spread more across the French-speaking world. The estimate of numbers ('thousands'), although necessarily vague, is justified by some knowledge of the main lodging house used by those not accommodated with their host families, St. Andrew's House, Moscow, and by the places of worship they preferentially frequented, for example the church associated with the House. Pitcher drew extensively on the archives of the Governesses' Benevolent Institution in London; there is also some allusion to the phenomenon of governesses being engaged abroad in \"A galaxy of governesses\" by Bea Howe.\n\n\nSeveral well-known works of fiction, particularly in the nineteenth century, have focused on governesses.\n\n\n\n\nThe term \"governess\" is an archaic gendered job title for a politician; now the word \"governor\" is used for men or women. For example, Keʻelikōlani was known as the governess of Hawaii.\n\nAnne Hegerty, one of the Chasers on the British and Australian versions of \"The Chase\", is nicknamed \"The Governess\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42518492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42518492", "title": "Green criminology", "text": "Green criminology\n\nGreen criminology is a branch of criminology that involves the study of harms and crimes against the environment broadly conceived, including the study of environmental law and policy, the study of corporate crimes against the environment, and environmental justice from a criminological perspective.\n\nThe term \"green criminology\" was introduced by Michael J. Lynch in 1990, and expanded upon in Nancy Frank and Michael J. Lynch’s 1992 book, \"Corporate Crime, Corporate Violence\", which examined the political economic origins of green crime and injustice, and the scope of environmental law. The term became more widely used following publication of a special issue on green criminology in the journal \"Theoretical Criminology\" edited by Piers Beirne and Nigel South (1998, volume 2, number 2). Green criminology has recently started to feature in university-level curriculum and textbooks in criminology and other disciplinary fields.\n\nThe study of green criminology has expanded significantly over time, and is supported by groups such as the \"International Green Criminology Working Group\" See http://greencriminology.org/. There are increasing interfaces and hybrid empirical and theoretical influences between the study of green criminology, which focuses on environmental harms and crimes, and mainstream criminology and criminal justice, with criminologists studying the 'greening' of criminal justice institutions and practices in efforts to become more environmentally sustainable and the involvement of people in prison or on probation in ecological justice initiatives.\n\nThough green criminology was originally proposed as a political economic approach for the study of environmental harm, crime, law and justice, there are now several varieties of green criminology as noted below.\n\nThe initial grounding of green criminology was in political economic theory and analysis. In his original 1990 article, Lynch proposed green criminology as an extension of radical criminology and its focus on political economic theory and analysis. In that view, it was essential to examine the political economic dimensions of green crime and justice in order to understand the major environmental issues of our times and how they connect with the political economy of capitalism. The political economic approach was expanded upon by Lynch and Paul B. Stretesky in two additional articles in the Critical Criminologist. In those articles, Lynch and Stretesky extended the scope of green criminology to apply to the study of environmental justice, and followed that work with a series of studies addressing environmental justice concerns, the distribution of environmental crimes and hazards, and empirical studies of environmental justice movements and enforcement. Later, working with Michael A. Long and then Kimberly L. Barrett, the political economic explanation and empirical studies of green crimes were adapted to include a perspective on the structural influence of the treadmill of production on the creation of green crimes drawn from the work of Allan Schnaiberg, environmental sociology, eco-socialism and ecological Marxism. Throughout the development of the political economic approach to green criminology, scholars have made significant use of scientific and ecological literatures, as well as empirical analysis, which have become characteristics of this approach and distinguish it from other varieties of green criminology.\n\nThe second major variation of green criminology is the nonspeciesist argument proposed by Piers Beirne. In Beirne’s view, the study of harms against nonhuman animals is an important criminological topic which requires attention and at the same time illustrates the limits of current criminological theorizing about, crime/harm, law and justice with its focus almost exclusively on humans. This approach also includes discussions of animal rights. Beirne’s approach to green criminology has been extremely influential, and there are now a significant number of studies within the green criminological literature focusing on nonhuman animal crimes and animal abuse. In addition to studies of animal abuse, included within the scope of nonhuman animal studies are those focused on illegal wildlife trade, poaching, wildlife smuggling, animal trafficking and the international trade in endangered species. Many of the studies green criminologists undertake in this area of research are theoretical or qualitative. Ron Clarke and several colleagues, however, have explored empirical examinations of illegal animal trade and trafficking, and this has become a useful approach for examining green crimes. Clarke’s approach draws on more traditional criminological theory such as rational choice theory and crime opportunity theory, and hence is not within the mainstream of green criminological approaches. Nevertheless, Clarke’s approach has drawn attention to important empirical explanations of green crimes.\n\nSimilar to the political economic approach but without grounding in political economic theory, some green criminologists have explored the issue of green crime by examining how corporate behavior impacts green crimes. Among other issues, this approach has included discussions of eco-crimes and activities such as bio-piracy as discussed by Nigel South. Bio-piracy is largely an effort by corporations to commodify native knowledge and to turn native knowledge and practices into for-profit products while depriving native peoples of their rights to that knowledge and those products, and in most cases, avoiding payments to natives for their knowledge or products. Bio-piracy includes issues of social and economic justice for native peoples. These kinds of crimes fall into the category of eco-crimes, a term associated with the work of Reece Walters. Also included within the examination of eco-crimes is the analysis of other ecologically harmful corporate behaviors such as the production of genetically modified foods and various forms of toxic pollution.\n\nSome of those who study environmental crime and justice prefer the use of Rob White’s term, eco-global criminology. In proposing this term, White suggested that it is necessary to employ a critical analysis of environmental crime as it occurs in its global context and connections. Similar to Lynch’s political economic approach to green criminology, White has also noted that it is desirable to refer to the political economy of environmental crime, and to social and environmental justice issues.\n\nAs proposed by Avi Brisman and Nigel South green-cultural criminology attempts to integrate green and cultural criminology to explore the cultural meaning and significance of terms such as “environment” and “environmental crime.”\n\nConservation criminology is compliment to green criminology. Originally proposed by an interdisciplinary group of scholars from the Department of Fisheries & Wildlife, School of Criminal Justice, and Environmental Science & Policy Program at Michigan State University, conservation criminology seeks to overcome limitations inherent to single-discipline science and provide practical guidance about on-the-ground reforms. Conservation criminology is an interdisciplinary and applied paradigm for understanding programs and policies associated with global conservation risks. By integrating natural resources management, risk and decision science, and criminology, conservation criminology-based approaches ideally result in improved environmental resilience, biodiversity conservation, and secure human livelihoods. As an interdisciplinary science, conservation criminology requires the constant and creative combination of theories, methods, and techniques from diverse disciplines throughout the entire processes of research, practice, education, and policy. Thinking about the interdisciplinary nature of conservation criminology can be quite exciting but does require patience and understanding of the different languages, epistemologies and ontologies of the core disciplines. Conservation criminology has been extensively applied to extralegal exploitation of natural resources such as wildlife poaching in Namibia and Madagascar corruption in conservation, e-waste, and general noncompliance with conservation rules. By relying on multiple disciplines, conservation criminology leapfrogs this ideal; it promotes thinking about second- and third-order consequences of risks, not just isolated trends.\n\nIt is often noted that green criminology is interdisciplinary and as a result, lacks its own unique theory or any preferred theoretical approach. Moreover, significant portions of the green criminological literature are qualitative and descriptive, and those studies have generally not proposed a unique or unifying theory. Despite this general lack of a singular theory, some of the approaches noted above indicate certain theoretical preferences. For example, as noted, the political economic approach to green criminology develops explanations of green crime, victimization and environmental justice consistent with several existing strains of political economic analysis. Beirne’s approach takes an interdisciplinary view of theory with respect to various animal rights models and arguments. Clarke’s rational choice models of animal poaching and trafficking build on the rational choice tradition found within the criminological literature. To date, these different theoretical approaches have not been examined as competing explanations for green crime and justice, a situation that is found with respect to orthodox or traditional criminological theories of street crime.\n\n"}
{"id": "2960754", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2960754", "title": "Immigration to France", "text": "Immigration to France\n\nAccording to the French national institute of statistics INSEE, the 2014 census counted nearly 6 million immigrants (foreign-born people) in France, representing 9.1% of the total population. Eurostat estimated the foreign-born population to be 7.9 million, corresponding to 11.8% of the French population as of January 2016.\n\nIn 2008, a previous INSEE census estimated that 5.3 million foreign-born immigrants and 6.5 million direct descendants of immigrants (born in France with at least one immigrant parent) lived in France representing a total of 11.8 million and 19% of the total population in metropolitan France (62.1 million in 2008). Among them, about 5.5 million are of European origin (Portuguese, Spaniards, Italians, Britons and Several people from Eastern European countries.), 4 million of North African (either Arab-Berber) origin, 1 million of Sub-Saharan African origin and 400,000 of Turkish origin.\n\nThe area with the largest proportion of immigrants is the Parisian urban area (Greater Paris), where almost 40% of immigrants lived in 2012. Other regions with important immigrant populations are Rhône-Alpes (Lyon) and Provence-Alpes-Côte d’Azur (Marseille).\n\nAmong the 802,000 newborns in metropolitan France in 2010, 27.3% had one or both parents foreign-born, and about one quarter (23.9%) had one parent or both born outside of Europe. Including grandparents, about 40% of newborns in France between 2006 and 2008 had at least one foreign-born grandparent (11% born in another European country, 16% born in Maghreb but some have European ancestry and 12% born in another region of the world).\n\nFrance's population dynamics began to change in the middle of the 19th century, as France joined the Industrial Revolution. The pace of industrial growth attracted millions of European immigrants over the next century, with especially large numbers arriving from Poland, Belgium, Portugal, Italy, and Spain. In the wake of the First World War, in which France suffered six million casualties, significant numbers of workers from French colonies came. By 1930, the Paris region alone had a North African Muslim population of 70,000.\n\nRight after the Second World War, immigration to France significantly increased. During the period of reconstruction, France lacked labor, and as a result, the French government was eager to recruit immigrants coming from all over Europe, the Americas, Africa and Asia.\n\nAlthough there was a presence of, Vietnamese in France since the late 19th century (mostly students and workers), a wave of Vietnamese migrated to the country after the Battle of Dien Bien Phu and the Geneva Accords, which granted Vietnam its independence from France in 1954. These migrants consisted of those who were loyal to the colonial government and those married to French colonists. Following the partition of Vietnam, students and professionals from South Vietnam continued to arrive in France. Although many initially returned to the country after a few years, as the Vietnam War situation worsened, a majority decided to remain in France and brought their families over as well.\n\nThis period also saw a significant wave of immigrants from Algeria. As the Algerian War started in 1954, there were already 200,000 Algerian immigrants in France. However, because of the tension between the Algerians and the French, these immigrants were no longer welcome. This conflict between the two sides led to the Paris Massacre of 17 October 1961, when the police used force against an Algerian demonstration on the streets of Paris. After the war, after Algeria gained its independence, the free circulation between France and Algeria was once again allowed, and the number of Algerian immigrants started to increase drastically. From 1962 to 1975, the Algerian immigrant population increased from 350,000 to 700,000. Many of these immigrants were known as the \"harkis,\" and the others were known as the \"pieds-noirs.\" The \"harkis\" were Algerians who supported the French during the Algerian War; once the war was over, they were deeply resented by other Algerians, and thus had to flee to France. The \"pieds-noirs\" were Europeans settlers who moved to Algeria, but migrated back to France since 1962 when Algeria declared independence.\n\nAdditionally, the number of Pakistani and Japanese immigrants also increased during this period. There was also a great number of students and workers from former French colonies in Africa.\n\nWith this massive influx of immigrants, France became an asylum for refugees. According to the convention in Geneva, refugee status was granted to four out of five immigrant applicants. Many of these refugees came from countries in Eastern Europe (i.e. Hungary) and Latin America, because they feared the dictatorship in their home countries.\n\nAlthough the majority of immigrants at this time came from rural regions, only 6% of them were willing to work in agriculture. About two-third of the immigrants worked in mining, steel, construction, and automotive industries. Approximately 12% of male immigrants and the majority of female immigrants worked in domestic services, restoration, and commerce (as for French women, a woman working was subject to her husband's authorisation until 1965.) Minor and aged immigrants usually worked in craftsmanship and small scale trades.\n\nDuring the 1970s, France simultaneously faced economic crisis and allowed immigrants (mostly from the Muslim World) to permanently settle in France with their families and to acquire French citizenship. It resulted in hundreds of thousands of Muslims, especially to the larger cities, living in subsidized public housing and suffering from very high unemployment rates.\n\nAlongside this, France renounced its policy of assimilation, instead pursuing a policy of integration.\n\nImmigration to France exceeded 200,000 in recent years, as shown in table below.\n\nRecent immigrants arriving to France as per 2014:\n\nIn 2014 The National Institute of Statistics (INSEE, for its acronym in French) published a study, accordingly the number of Spanish immigrants, Portuguese and Italians in France between 2009 and 2012 has doubled.\nAs determined by the French Institute, this increase resulting from the financial crisis that hit several European countries in that period, has pushed up the number of Europeans settled in France.\nStatistics on Spanish immigrants in France show a growth of 107 percent between 2009 and 2012, i.e. in this period went from 5300 to 11,000 people.\nOf the total of 229,000 new foreigners coming to France in 2012, nearly 8% were Portuguese, British 5%, Spanish 5%, Italians 4%, Germans 4%, Romanians 3%, and Belgians 3%.\n\nWith the increase of Spanish, Portuguese and Italians in France, the weight of European immigrants arrived in 2012 to 46 percent, while this percentage for African reached 30%, with a presence in Morocco (7%), Algeria (7%) and Tunisia (3%).\nMeanwhile, 14 percent of all immigrants who settled in France that year were from Asian countries - 3% of China and 2% in Turkey, while in America and Oceania constitute 10% of Americans and Brazilians accounted for higher percentage, 2 percent each.\n\nIn 2008, according to The National Institute of Statistics (INSEE, for its acronym in French), there were 12 million immigrants and their direct descendants (2nd generation) making up about 20% of the population. with an immigrant defined as a foreign born person without French citizenship at birth. Without considering citizenship at birth, people not born in metropolitan France and their direct descendants made up 30% of the population aged 18–50 in metropolitan France in 2008.\n\nIn 2008, there were 5.3 million immigrants corresponding to 8.5% of the total population in France (63.9 million in 2008). 42% were from Africa (30% from Maghreb and 12% from Sub-Saharan Africa), 38% from Europe (mainly from Portugal, Italy and Spain), 14% from Asia and 5% from the Americas and Oceania. Of this total, 40% have assumed French citizenship. In addition, 1.8 million people born in foreign countries (including 1 million in Maghreb) with French citizenship at birth were not included in this total.\n\nThere were also 6.7 million direct descendants of immigrants (born in France with at least one immigrant parent) living in France in 2008, corresponding to 11% of the total population in France. Immigrants aged 18–50 count for 2,7 millions (10% of population aged 18–50) and 5.3 millions for all ages (8% of population). 2nd Generation aged 18–50 make up 3.1 millions (12% of 18-50) and 6.5 millions for all ages (11% of population). The regions with the largest proportion of immigrants and direct descendants of immigrants are the Île-de-France and Provence-Alpes-Côte d'Azur/Languedoc-Roussillon, where more than one third and one quarter of the inhabitants respectively were either immigrants or direct descendants of immigrants.\n\nThe table shows immigrants and 2nd generation immigrants by origin in 2008. 3rd generation immigrants, illegal immigrants, as well as ethnic minorities like Black people from the French overseas territories residing in metropolitan France (800,000), Roms (500,000) or people born in Maghreb with French citizenship at birth (about 4 million Maghrebi Jews, Harkis and Pied-Noir including their descendants live in France) were not taken into account.\n\nIn 2005, 18.1% of young people under 18 were of foreign origin (at least one immigrant parent) in France including 13.5% of non-European origin. Ile-de-France has the highest proportion at about 37%.\n\nPeople under 18 of Maghrebi, Sub-saharian and Turkish origin became a majority in several cities of Ile-de-France (Clichy-sous-Bois, Mantes-la-Jolie, Grigny, Saint-Denis, Les Mureaux, Saint-Ouen, Sarcelles, Pierrefitte-sur-Seine, Garges-lès-Gonesse, Aubervilliers, Stains, Gennevilliers et Épinay-sur-Seine) and in several arrondissements of Marseilles. In Grigny, 31% of young people are of Sub-saharian origin.\n\nBetween 2006 and 2008 about 40% of newborns in France had at least one foreign-born grandparent (11% born in another European country, 16% born in Maghreb and 12% born in another region of the world). In 2010, 27.3% of the 802,000 newborns in metropolitan France had at least one foreign-born parent. About one quarter (24%) of all the newborns had at least one parent born outside of Europe including about 17% from Africa (11% from Maghreb and 6% from Subsaharan Africa).\n\nRegarding the country of origin of \"posted workers\", the same document states the origin of the posted workers: Poles represent the largest contingent of employees posted to France (18% of the total), followed by the Portuguese (15%) and Romania (13%). The majority of these employees, about 60% comes from the historical countries of the European Union, but the share from the new Member States \"EU\" is growing very rapidly, and the nationals of countries outside \"EU \"also increases.\n\nIn France, the three largest cities (Paris, Lyon and Marseille) also attract the largest share of immigrants to the country. According to a study of the INSEE, in France, Immigrants are more concentrated in urban areas than the native population. 90.1% of the immigrant population is located in urban areas which is significantly more than the proportion for the native population, 81.9% of them living in urban areas. In 2012, 38.2% of the total immigrant population lived in the Parisian urban area compared to 4.1% and 3.1% respectively for Lyon and Marseille.\n\nThe region with the largest proportion of immigrants is the Île-de-France (Greater Paris), where 40% of immigrants live. According to INSEE, French National Institute for Statistics and Economic Studies, responsible for the production and analysis of official statistics in France, about 35% of people (4 millions) living in Île-de-France, are either immigrant (17%) or born to at least one immigrant parent (18%) in 2006.\n\nIn the city of Paris, 20% of people living are immigrants and 41.3% of people under 20 have at least one immigrant parent. Among the young people under 18, 12.1% are of Maghrebi origin, 9.9% of Subsaharan African origin (not including Blacks from French West Indies) and 4.0% of South European origin.\n\nIn département of Seine-Saint-Denis (population of 1.5 million), 56.7% of young under 18 are or foreign origin including 38% of African origin. Islam is the main religion.\n\nReading: 436 576 immigrants live in Paris, representing 20% of Parisians and 22.4% of immigrants in Ile-de-France.\n162 635 children under 20 with at least one immigrant parent live in Paris, representing 41.3% of the total of children under 20 in Paris\nand 15.4% of the total of children under 20 with at least one immigrant parent in Ile-de-France.\n\nCitizens of the United States of America total more than 100,000 permanent residents in France, Canadians 11,931, followed by Latin Americans are a growing sub-group the most numerous are the Brazilians 44,622, followed by Venezuelans 30,000, Peruvians 22,002, Chileans (esp. arrived in the 1970s) 15,782, and Argentineans 11,899 (or up to 15,000). Latinos or Latin Americans are increasingly emigrating to France for economic reasons, study, work, family, and sometimes political asylum.\n\nIn 2014 The National Institute of Statistics (INSEE, for its acronym in French) published a study on Thursday, according to which has doubled the number of Italian, Portuguese and Spanish immigrants in France between 2009 and 2012.\nAccording to the French Institute, this increase resulting from the financial crisis that hit several European countries in that period, has pushed up the number of Europeans installed in France.\nStatistics on Spanish immigrants in France show a growth of 107 percent between 2009 and 2012, i.e. in this period went from 5300 to 11,000 people.\nOf the total of 229,000 foreigners arriving to France in 2012, nearly 8% were Portuguese, British 5%, Spanish 5%, Italians 4%, Germans 4%, Romanians 3%, and Belgians 3%.\n\nWith the increase of Italian, Portuguese and Spanish immigrants to France, the weight of European immigrants arrived in 2012 to 46 percent, while this percentage for African reached 30%, with a presence in Morocco (7%), Algeria (7%) and Tunisia (3%).\nMeanwhile, 14 percent of all immigrants who settled in France that year were from Asian countries—3% of China and 2% in Turkey, while in America and Oceania constitute 10% of Americans and Brazilians accounted for higher percentage, 2 percent each.\n\nFrench of Maghrebi (either Arabs or Berbers) origin in France form the largest ethnic group after French of European origin.\n\nAccording to Michel Tribalat, a researcher at INED, there were 3.5 million people of Maghrebi origin (with at least one grandparent from Algeria, Morocco or Tunisia) living in France in 2005 corresponding to 5.8% of the total French metropolitan population (60.7 millions in 2005). Maghrebis have settled mainly in the industrial regions in France, especially in the Paris region. Many famous French people like Edith Piaf, Isabelle Adjani, Arnaud Montebourg, Alain Bashung, Dany Boon, Zinedine Zidane and Karim Benzema have Maghrebi ancestry.\n\nBelow is a table of population of Maghrebi origin in France, numbers are in thousands:\n\nIn 2005, the percentage of young people under 18 of Maghrebi origin (at least one immigrant parent) were about 7% in Metropolitan France, 12% in Greater Paris, 13% in Lyon, 21% in Perpignan, 22% in French département of Seine-Saint-Denis, 37% in 18th arrondissement of Paris and 40% in several arrondissements of Marseilles.\n\n16% of newborns in France between 2006 and 2008 have at least one Maghrebi grandparent.\n\nAccording to other sources between 5 and 6 million people of Maghrebi origin live in France corresponding to about 7-9% of the total French metropolitan population.\n\nIllegal immigration to France has developed as the country's immigration policy has become more rigid. In 2006, The French Ministry of the Interior estimated clandestine immigrants (\"sans-papiers \") in France numbered anywhere between 200,000 and 400,000, also expecting between 80,000 and 100,000 people to enter the country illegally each year.\n\nIn 2011, 28,000 illegal immigrants were expelled from France. The French government set a goal of 35,000 for 2012.\n\nThe French government has threatened to withdraw from the Schengen accord in 2009, 2011 and 2012.\n\nAs of 2016, many undocumented immigrants tried to jump the fences at Calais and board a train or truck heading for Britain. The Home Office has agents working alongside French police and immigration agents to prevent unauthorized people from entering the British border zone.\n\nChildren born in France to foreign parents are automatically granted French citizenship upon reaching the age of 18. People born abroad and living in France can acquire French citizenship if they satisfy certain conditions. In 2009 the number of naturalised persons was 135,000, mainly from Maghreb (41.2%).\n\nAccording to Eurostat 47.3 million people lived in the European Union in 2010 who were born outside their resident country. This corresponds to 9.4% of the total EU population. Of these, 31.4 million (6.3%) were born outside the EU and 16.0 million (3.2%) were born in another EU member state.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18531614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18531614", "title": "Irantxe language", "text": "Irantxe language\n\nIrantxe (Iranxe, Iranshe), also known as Münkü (Mỹky), is an indigenous American language that is spoken in Mato Grosso, Brazil, by about 200 people. It is generally left unclassified due to lack of data. The most recent descriptions treat it as a language isolate, saying that it \"bears no similarity with other language families\" (Arruda 2003), though this may not be based on new data (Monserrat 2010).\n\nMonserrat (2010) is a well-reviewed grammar.\n\nAs of 2011, the 280 Irantxe (Iránxe, Iranche, Manoki, Munku) have largely assimilated to Brazilian culture. Most are monolingual in Portuguese, and the remaining Irantxe speakers are over 50 years old. A splinter group, the Mỹky (Mynky, Münkü, Munku, Menku, Kenku, Myy), however, moved to escape assimilation, and were isolated until 1971. As of 2011, there were 80 ethnic Mỹky, all of whom spoke the language.\n\nMonserrat posits a series of palatalized stops. For several reasons, however, reviewer D’Angelis (2011) suggests these are simply /Cj/ sequences.\n/m/ is optionally [mb] word initially, especially among the Irantxe: \"muhu\" [mbuhu], \"mjehy\" [mbjɛhɨ]. /s/ is pronounced [ʃ] before /j/. [r] and [l] are in free variation.\n\nThere are 28 vowels: Seven qualities, , all appear long, short, and nasalized. The schwa, however, alternates with /ɛ/ in many words.\n\nSyllables may be CjVC, though words may not end in a consonant. The role of tone is not clear.\n\n"}
{"id": "24222204", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24222204", "title": "Irish Brazilians", "text": "Irish Brazilians\n\nIrish Brazilians ( or ; ) are Brazilian citizens of Irish ancestry, or Irish-born people residing in Brazil. Many Irish immigrants to Brazil changed their surnames to resemble Portuguese names more closely, often losing the common prefix 'O'.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23398510", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23398510", "title": "Jersey child abuse investigation 2008", "text": "Jersey child abuse investigation 2008\n\nThe Jersey child abuse investigation 2008 is an investigation into historic child abuse in Jersey. It started in the spring of 2007. Before that, social worker Simon Bellwood had made a complaint about a \"'Dickensian' system\" where children as young as 11 were routinely locked up for 24 hours or more in solitary confinement in a secure unit where he worked. The wider investigation into child abuse over several decades became public in November that year. It received international attention when police moved into Haut de la Garenne, then being used as a youth hostel.\n\nA wide-ranging government investigation into child abuse had begun in 2006, and escalated into a States of Jersey Police investigation in 2007 during which witness evidence repeatedly indicated Haut de la Garenne, which housed up to 60 children at any one time, to be one of the places where abuse took place.\n\nThere was widespread media coverage as forensic teams conducted searches in the building between the end of February 2008 and July 2008.\n\nAn initial finding of a fragment of what was believed to be a child's skull was widely publicised, but forensic tests later confirmed that the finding was irrelevant. It later transpired that the forensic team had informed the police prior to the announcement of the discovery of supposed human remains that the item might predate the inquiry timeframe, being from infill from a graveyard or of prehistoric origin. In February 2009 States of Jersey Police sent the fragment to Kew Gardens in the UK for testing. In May 2009 the Kew experts stated that the fragment was a piece of endocarp of \"Cocos nucifera\", i.e. a piece of coconut.\n\nBy the end of the excavations and investigations at Haut de la Garenne in July 2008, police had sifted over 150 tonnes of earth. 65 human milk teeth were found, coming from between 10 and 65 individuals aged between 6–12 years and generally seeming to have been shed naturally. Discounting a large quantity of animal bones, only three bone fragments (the largest 25 mm = 1 inch long) were identified as possibly human; two of them have been dated to a range from 1470 to 1650 and the other 1650 to 1950.\n\nIn September 2008, Detective Superintendent Mick Gradwell of Lancashire Police took over as Senior Investigating Officer in the abuse enquiry. In August 2008 David Warcup, Deputy Chief Constable of Northumbria Police, took over as Deputy Chief Officer of the States of Jersey Police. The new team launched a review of the investigation to date.\n\nIn November 2008, the Deputy Chief Officer, David Warcup, expressed \"much regret\" that misleading information had been released throughout the conduct of the enquiry, although this has been bitterly contested. Warcup stated that there was \"no evidence\" of any child murders at Haut de la Garenne, although the \"Sunday Times\" and other media have pointed out that the original investigation had also made this point, nor was there any indication that bodies may have been destroyed at the property. He said that initial reports of blood spots, secret underground chambers, mysterious pits, and metal restraint shackles, were all innocuous or misidentified.\n\nIn March 2008, BBC television personality Jimmy Savile started legal proceedings against \"The Sun\" newspaper which had, wrongly he claimed, linked him in several articles to the child abuse scandal at Haut de la Garenne. Savile initially denied visiting Haut de la Garenne, but later admitted that he had done so, following the publication of a photograph showing him at the home surrounded by children. The States of Jersey Police said that in 2008 an allegation of an indecent assault by Savile at the home in the 1970s had been investigated, but there had been insufficient evidence to proceed. After his death, hundreds of people from all over the UK came forward to accuse him of past abuse. Several people from Haut de la Garenne also came forward at this time.\n\nIn 2012 the deceased actor Wilfrid Brambell was accused of abusing two boys aged 12–13 during the 1970s in Jersey. One of the boys was from the Haut de la Garenne children's home.\n\nJersey Police have so far recorded claims of abuse from 100 people. The police investigated 18 key suspects in the wider investigation, but the Attorney General stated in 2009 that a significant number of these complaints were unsuitable for the criminal courts, including \"being made to take cold showers, being clipped around the ear, slapped about the head and flicked with a wet towel\". Arrests and charges have been made and as of August 2009 the investigation continues. However the police have stated that there will not be the number of prosecutions which were originally reported, and Detective Superintendent Gradwell stated in August 2009 that the problems with the handling of the inquiry before he took over had \"generated a very high level of expectation among complainants and the public\" that \"a large number of people would be prosecuted\". Out of six files received by the prosecution lawyers in August 2008, charges were laid in respect of three of them and it was concluded by June 2009 that no charges would be brought in respect of the remaining three for \"legal and evidential reasons\" as explained by the Attorney General. Detective Superintendent Gradwell stated in August 2009 that all the police officers from the UK working with the States police had agreed with decisions made by the Attorney General, lawyers and the independent legal team about cases submitted for prosecution, but that \"a few more people are likely to be charged\". On 27 February 2010 a married couple from Scotland were charged with a number of common assaults on children while they were working at Haut de la Garenne in the 1970s and 1980s.\n\nIn May 2009, Michael Aubin, then 46, admitted in the Royal Court of Jersey two counts of gross indecency and two counts of indecent assault on children under 10 years old while he himself was a child resident of Haut de la Garenne. He was sentenced on 22 June 2009 to two years' probation, having spent 19 months on remand. The trial was presided over by Royal Court Commissioner Julian Clyde-Smith.\n\nIn August 2009, Gordon Claude Wateridge, then 78, was found guilty of eight counts of indecent assault and one count of assault but acquitted on 11 counts of indecent assault and one count of incitement to indecent assault, all relating to his time as a house parent at Haut de la Garenne in the 1970s. Royal Court Commissioner Sir Christopher Pitchers, presiding, warned Wateridge to expect a custodial sentence for such a \"breach of trust\". On 21 September Wateridge was sentenced to 2 years imprisonment by the Inferior Number of the Royal Court.\n\nIn August 2009, Claude Donnelly, then 69, was sentenced by the Superior Number of Royal Court to a total of 15 years in prison after two trials in May 2009 and June 2009 for offences against young girls between 1968 and 1982. These offences were unconnected to Haut de la Garenne. He was convicted in May 2009 on one count of rape and three counts of indecent assault and in June 2009 on ten counts of indecent assault, four counts of rape and one count of procuring an act of gross indecency. Royal Court Commissioner Sir Christopher Pitchers, presiding, said that the abuse had had a terrible effect on Donnelly's victims, and that the substantial period of imprisonment recommended by the Attorney General was correct.\n\nIn November 2010, Morag and Anthony Jordan, a married couple who worked as house parents at Haut de la Garenne during the 1970s, were convicted of eight separate counts relating to physical abuse and subsequently received jail terms of nine and six months. Morag Jordan was acquitted of a further 28 counts and her husband of four. \n\nThere have been criticisms of the original investigation at Haut de la Garenne, both in Jersey and elsewhere.\n\nThe former minister for health and social services, Senator Stuart Syvret, said that he had been made aware in early 2007 of abuse at the home and had called for an independent enquiry. Frank Walker, the Chief Minister, accused him of damaging Jersey's reputation by speaking to the media, but stated that he had \"every confidence that the criminal investigations and any subsequent prosecutions will be, and will be seen to be, thorough and pursued with the utmost rigour and professionalism\" and that \"there is no hiding place in Jersey for anyone who abused children or, who in any way may have colluded with that abuse and no stone will be left unturned to bring them to justice.\"\n\nIt was suggested that some finds may actually be props from the TV series \"Bergerac\".\n\nThe Attorney General, who has the responsibility for prosecutions, stated that \"justice should be done\" in spite of delays in the investigation. United Kingdom MP John Hemming said that he thought that there was no doubt that there were efforts to cover up. He and Senator Syvret sought permission to apply for a judicial review of UK Justice Secretary Jack Straw's decision not to intervene over the prosecution of historic child abuse cases. They called for UK government intervention and assurance that cases were heard outside Jersey, on the grounds that Jersey's legal system could not guarantee a fair trial of an inquiry of this scale. At a hearing before the High Court in London in March 2009, the application for judicial review was dismissed.\n\nCriticism intensified after the November 2008 withdrawal by police of claims of evidence with the investigation being described variously as \"farcical\" and a \"shambles\". It was suggested that those leading the enquiry had leaped too readily to conclusions. The reliance on indications given by the same sniffer dogs criticised in connection with the disappearance of Madeleine McCann was also questioned.\n\nThe Chief Officer of the States of Jersey Police, Graham Power, was suspended in November 2008 pending an inquiry into his handling of the case, in particular into his release of preliminary findings to the press.\n\nDefence advocates for Aubin, Wateridge and Donnelly argued in pre-trial proceedings that inaccurate and sensational publicity surrounding the inquiry would seriously adversely affect the cases against their clients, and that there had been political pressure to bring charges. Royal Court Commissioner Sir Christopher Pitchers (a retired High Court of England and Wales judge appointed to preside over the trials of Wateridge and Donnelly) rejected the defence applications to halt proceedings and permitted the prosecutions to continue, despite what he described as the way in which the senior investigating officer \"whipped up a frenzied interest in the inquiry\", as he believed that the November 2008 statements by States of Jersey Police that there had been no child murders had done much to mitigate the effects of earlier publicity.\n\nDetective Superintendent Gradwell retired in August 2009 at the end of his contract and returned to the UK. On retiring, he described the investigation prior to the time he took over as a \"poorly managed mess\" and, in particular, the decision to excavate at Haut de la Garenne as being without justification and as \"a complete and total waste of public money, time and effort\". In September 2009, Lenny Harper published a point-by-point counterblast to these claims.\n\nIn 2011, Leah McGrath Goodman, an American journalist, claimed that she was banned from re-entering either the United Kingdom or the Bailiwick of Jersey for a period of two years, whilst in the middle of undertaking research on the abuse allegations. The alleged ban was then reportedly reduced subsequently to one year, after the intervention of John Hemming, a Member of the Westminster Parliament in the United Kingdom, and others. In September 2012, Trevor Pitman, one of the Deputies for the Parish of Saint Helier, started a campaign and a petition-drive to lift her ban from the UK and Jersey, so that she could be granted a new visa and work permit and finish her investigative work. The ban was lifted in 2013, and Goodman was issued a visa.\n\nA new major inquiry headed by Sally Bradley QC, a Deputy Judge of the High Court of England and Wales, was announced in July 2013. The start of the inquiry was delayed when Sally Bradley became ill soon after her appointment and she was replaced by Frances Oldham QC. The inquiry presented its report in July 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "38046809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38046809", "title": "Kenya Anti-Corruption Authority", "text": "Kenya Anti-Corruption Authority\n\nThe Kenya Anti-Corruption Authority (KACA) of Kenya was established in 1997 after the amendment of the Prevention of Corruption Act (Cap 65, LOK) in early 1997. The first director was John Harun Mwau who was appointed in December 1997. In April 2003, it was replaced by the Kenya Anti-Corruption Commission KACC which was subsequently replaced by the Ethics and Anti-Corruption Commission (EACC).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3913469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3913469", "title": "Kurdish culture", "text": "Kurdish culture\n\nKurdish culture is a group of distinctive cultural traits practiced by Kurdish people. The Kurdish culture is a legacy from ancient peoples who shaped modern Kurds and their society.\n\nKurds or Kurds are people living in western Asia in the north of the Middle East along the Zacros Mountains and the Taurus Mountains in the region that the Kurds call Greater Kurdistan. Today they are parts of north-eastern Iraq, north-west of Iran and north East of Syria and southeast Turkey. In addition to these areas, the Kurds are present in a few numbers in south-western Armenia and some areas of Azerbaijan and Lebanon. Kurds are one of the largest ethnic groups that does not have an independent state or a unified political entity recognized universally. There is a lot of controversy about the Kurdish people from their origins, their history, and even their political future. This historical controversy has intensified in recent years, especially after the changes in the reality of the Kurds in Iraq following the Second Gulf War, and the formation of the United States of the no-fly zone that led to the emergence of the Kurdistan region in northern Iraq.\n\nKurdish (کوردی, Kurdî) is part of the North-Western division of the Iranian branch of the Indo-European language family.Basic languages: sorani and kurmanji\nIn various forms: Sorani, Armenian, Vile, Southern Kurdish, Royal, Zacakian, Bajelian, and Gorani\nOther languages: Arabic, Turkish, Persian\n\nKurdish folk music is an important part of Kurdish culture and has traditionally been used to transmit stories about Kurdish history by Dengbej (bards). According to thekurdishproject.org, 'The word ‘deng’ means voice and ‘bej’ means ‘to sing.’ Dengbej are best known for their “stran,” or song of mourning.' Many popular Kurdish musicians of the 20th century like Hassan Zirak and Ahmet Kaya sang in Turkish or Persian as well as in Kurdish. Apart from the language it is sung in, Western Kurdish music has a more Anatolian, Turkish, Greek or Balkan sound, whereas Southern Kurdish music is influenced by Arab musical styles, Eastern Kurdish music by Persian styles and North-Eastern by Armenian and Caucasian styles.\n\nFood is widely recognised to be a fundamental part of what it means to be Kurdish. Foods such as Yapraxi galamew (rice stuffed in grape leaves), kfta (spiced minced meat cased in thin layer of mashed pudding rice), Ser u pe (goats head, tongue and feet), shifta (meat patties), are traditional Kurdish foods. Lamb and chicken have been staple meats in Kurdish cuisine for centuries. Vegetables, pilaf and dairy products also comprise a large portion of traditional Kurdish food. Tea is also staple to a Kurdish diet. It is commonly drunk 2-3 times a day, commonly a social activity. Kurds also drink Mastaw/Do'h/Ayran, a yogurt-based drink.\n\nThe Kurdish people have different religions depending on the country in which they live in or they have cultural and ethnic links to that religion, the most common religion among Kurds is Sunni Islam, practiced by 98% of Kurds living in Iraqi Kurdistan. The Kurds of Turkey are 30% Alevi out of a population of approximately 15-22 million Kurds and 68% follow Sunni Islam. Religion has become a fundamental part of what it means to be a Kurd. The first known religion of the Kurds was Zoroastrianism, an ancient Iranian religion. As Zoroastrianism was fading from the ancient areas of Mesopotamia and Anatolia Yezidism was becoming more accepted as the main religion of the Kurds in the Shingal area (Sinjar) the 12-13th Century and more Yezidi tribes expanded into South-eastern Anatolia. The areas where the Kurds consider their homeland have a wide variety of religions including Islam, Christianity and Judaism which have all at one point existed in the Kurdish areas. The Religion of the Kurds has been changing constantly throughout history.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "603166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=603166", "title": "Labor history (discipline)", "text": "Labor history (discipline)\n\nLabor history or labour history is a sub-discipline of social history which specialises on the history of the working classes and the labor movement. The central concerns of labor historians include industrial relations and forms of labor protest (strikes, lock-outs), the rise of mass politics (especially the rise of socialism) and the social and cultural history of the industrial working classes. Labor historians may also concern themselves with issues of gender, race, ethnicity and other factors besides class but chiefly focus on urban or industrial societies which distinguishes it from rural history.\n\nLabor history developed in tandem with the growth of a self-conscious working-class political movement in many Western countries in the latter half of the nineteenth century. Whilst early labor historians were drawn to protest movements such as Luddism and Chartism, the focus of labor history was often on institutions: chiefly the labor unions and political parties. Exponents of this \"institutional\" approach included Sidney and Beatrice Webb. The work of the Webbs, and other pioneers of the discipline, was marked by optimism about the capacity of the labor movement to effect fundamental social change and a tendency to see its development as a process of steady, inevitable and unstoppable progress. As two contemporary labor historians have noted, early work in the field was \"designed to service and celebrate the Labour movement.\"\n\nIn the 1950s to 1970s, labor history was redefined and expanded in focus by a number of historians, amongst whom the most prominent and influential figures were E. P. Thompson and Eric Hobsbawm. The motivation came from current left-wing politics in Britain and the United States and reached red-hot intensity. Kenneth O. Morgan, a more traditional liberal historian, explains the dynamic:\n\nMorgan sees benefits: \nMorgan tells of the downside as well:\n\nThompson and Hobsbawm were Marxists who were critical of the existing labour movement in Britain. They were concerned to approach history \"from below\" and to explore the agency and activity of working people at the workplace, in protest movements and in social and cultural activities. Thompson's seminal study \"The Making of the English Working Class\" was particularly influential in setting a new agenda for labor historians and locating the importance of the study of labor for social history in general. Also in the 1950s and 1960s, historians began to give serious attention to groups who had previously been largely neglected, such as women and non-caucasian ethnic groups. Some historians situated their studies of gender and race within a class analysis: for example, C. L. R. James, a Marxist who wrote about the struggles of blacks in the Haitian Revolution. Others questioned whether class was a more important social category than gender or race and pointed to racism, patriarchy and other examples of division and oppression \"within\" the working class.\n\nLabor history remains centered on two fundamental sets of interest: institutional histories of workers' organizations, and the \"history from below\" approach of the Marxist historians.\n\nDespite the influence of the Marxists, many labor historians rejected the revolutionary implications implicit in the work of Thompson, Hobsbawm et al. In the 1980s, the importance of class itself, as an historical social relationship and explanatory concept, began to be widely challenged. Some notable labor historians turned from Marxism to embrace a postmodernist approach, emphasizing the importance of language and questioning whether classes could be so considered if they did not use a \"language of class\". Other historians emphasized the weaknesses and moderation of the historic labor movement, arguing that social development had been characterized more by accommodation, acceptance of the social order and cross-class collaboration than by conflict and dramatic change.\n\nLabor history in the United States is primarily based in history departments, with occasional representation inside labor unions. The scholarship deals with the institutional history of labor unions and the social history of workers. In recent years there's been special attention to historically marginal groups, especially blacks, women, Hispanics and Asians.\nThe Study Group on International Labor and Working-Class History was established: 1971 and has a membership of 1000. It publishes \"International Labor and Working-Class History\". H-LABOR is a daily email-based discussion group formed in 1993 that reaches over a thousand scholars and advanced students. the Labor and Working-Class History Association formed in 1988 and publishes \"\".\n\nProminent scholars include John R. Commons (1862–1945), David Brody (b. 1930), Melvyn Dubofsky, and David Montgomery (1927-2011).\n\nKirk (2010) surveys labor historiography in Britain since the formation of the Society for the Study of Labour History in 1960. He reports that labor history has been mostly pragmatic, eclectic and empirical; it has played an important role in historiographical debates, such as those revolving around history from below, institutionalism versus the social history of labor, class, populism, gender, language, postmodernism and the turn to politics. Kirk rejects suggestions that the field is declining, and stresses its innovation, modification and renewal. Kirk also detects a move into conservative insularity and academicism. He recommends a more extensive and critical engagement with the kinds of comparative, transnational and global concerns increasingly popular among labor historians elsewhere, and calls for a revival of public and political interest in the topics. Meanwhile, Navickas, (2011) examines recent scholarship including the histories of collective action, environment and human ecology, and gender issues, with a focus on work by James Epstein, Malcolm Chase, and Peter Jones.\n\nOutside the Marxist orbit, social historians paid a good deal of attention to labour history as well.\n\nAddison notes that in Britain by the 1990s, labour history was, \"in sharp decline,\" because:\n\n\n\nCanada\n\nUnited States\n\nEurope\n"}
{"id": "4006362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4006362", "title": "Languages of Finland", "text": "Languages of Finland\n\nThe two main official languages of Finland are Finnish and Swedish. There are also several official minority languages: three variants of Sami, Romani, Finnish Sign Language and Karelian.\n\nFinnish is the language of the majority, 91% of the population. It is a Finnic language closely related to Estonian and less closely to the Sami languages. The Finnic languages belong to the Uralic language family, so Finnish is distantly related to languages as diverse as Hungarian (a Ugric language) and Nenets (a Samoyedic language) in Siberia.\n\nSwedish is the main language of 5.5% of the population (92.4% in the Åland autonomous province), down from 14% at the beginning of the 20th century. In 2012, 44% of Finnish citizens with another registered primary language than Swedish could hold a conversation in this language. Swedish is a North Germanic language, closely related to Norwegian and Danish. As a subbranch of Indo-European, it is also closely related to other Germanic languages such as German, Dutch, and English.\n\nSwedish was the language of the administration until the late 19th century. Today it is one of the two main official languages, with a position equal to Finnish in most legislation, though the working language in most governmental bodies is Finnish. Both Finnish and Swedish are compulsory subjects in school with an exception for children with a third language as their native language. A successfully completed language test is a prerequisite for governmental offices where a university degree is required.\n\nThe four largest Swedish-speaking communities in Finland, in absolute numbers, are those of Helsinki, Espoo, Porvoo and Vaasa, where they constitute significant minorities. Helsinki, the capital, had a Swedish-speaking majority until late in the 19th century. Currently of the population of Helsinki are Swedish-speaking and 9.6% speaks languages other than Finnish and Swedish.\n\nThe Swedish dialects spoken in Finland mainland are known as Finland-Swedish. There is a rich Finland-Swedish literature, including authors such as Tove Jansson, Johan Ludvig Runeberg, Edith Södergran and Zacharias Topelius. Runeberg is considered Finland's national poet and wrote the national anthem, \"Vårt land\", which was only later translated to Finnish.\n\nThe Sami languages are a group of related languages spoken across Lapland. They are distantly related to Finnish. The three Sami languages spoken in Finland, Northern Sami, Inari Sami and Skolt Sami, have a combined native speaker population of roughly 1,800.\n\nUp to World War II, Karelian was spoken in the historical Border-Karelian region on the northern shore of Lake Ladoga. After the war, immigrant Karelians were settled all over Finland. In 2001 the Karelian Language Society estimated that the language is understood by 11,000–12,000 people in Finland, most of whom are elderly. A more recent estimate is that the size of the language community is 30,000. \n\nKarelian was recognized in a regulation by the President in November 2009, in accordance with the European Charter for Regional or Minority Languages.\n\nAlthough the older generations tend to know Russian as a third or fourth language in Finland due to previous Soviet influence over Europe, in the last decade or two Russian language is being replaced by English language, especially among the younger generations. Finland is placed among the top four countries in the world in terms of fluency of English.\n\nThe Russian language is the third most spoken native language in Finland (1%) The Russian language has no official status in Finland, though historically it served as the third co-official language with Finnish and Swedish for a relatively brief period between 1900 and 1917.\n\nAll municipalities outside Åland where both official languages are spoken by either at least 8% of the population or at least 3,000 people are considered bilingual. Swedish reaches these criteria in 59 out of 336 municipalities located in Åland (where this does not matter) and the coastal areas of Ostrobothnia region, Southwest Finland (especially in Åboland outside Turku) and Uusimaa.< Outside these areas there are some towns with significant Swedish-speaking minorities not reaching the criteria. Thus the inland is officially unilingually Finnish-speaking. Finnish reaches the criteria everywhere but in Åland and in three municipalities in the Ostrobothnia region, which is also the only region on the Finnish mainland with a Swedish-speaking majority (52% to 46%).\n\nThe Sami languages have an official status in the northernmost Finland, in Utsjoki, Inari, Enontekiö and part of Sodankylä, regardless of proportion of speakers.\n\nIn the bilingual municipalities signs are in both languages, important documents are translated and authorities have to be able to serve in both languages. Authorities of the central administration have to serve the public in both official languages, regardless of location, and in Sami in certain circumstances.\n\nPlaces often have different names in Finnish and in Swedish, both names being equally official as name of the town. For a list, see Names of places in Finland in Finnish and in Swedish.\n\n"}
{"id": "40231780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40231780", "title": "List of Bosnia and Herzegovina folk songs", "text": "List of Bosnia and Herzegovina folk songs\n\nThis is a list of folk songs and traditional sevdalinka songs which originated in Bosnia and Herzegovina but are also popular in Croatia, Macedonia, Montenegro and Serbia.\n\n\"Emina\" was originally a poem written by Bosnian Serb poet Aleksa Šantić, first published in 1902. It became a popular sevdalinka covered by many artists from the former Yugoslav republics over the course of the 20th century. The subject of the song is Šantić's teenage neighbor, a Bosniak girl named Emina Sefić. It is one of the most well-known sevdalinkas of all time.\nMany artists have covered the song, but the version by fellow Mostar native, Bosnian singer Himzo Polovina, remains the most popular. Upon hearing of the death of Emina Sefić, Polovina went to poet Sevda Katica's home in the village of Donja Mahala. He found her in the yard of the family home, informed her of Emina's death and she shuddered with grief and spoke the verses:\n\nPolovina recorded the song and added Sevda's new verses.\n\nA Bosnian traditional folk song. Although the song is much older, the first known recording was in 1935 in Gacko to the voice of a Bosniak peasant singer in her 60s named Halima Hrvo (\"née\" Đemo) from the village of Tjentište near Foča.\n\n\"Kraj tanana šadrvana\" was translated into Bosnian in 1923 by Aleksa Šantić from a poem called \"Der Asra\" (\"The Azra\") by the German poet Heinrich Heine.\n\n\"Moj dilbere\" has been in Bosnia since Ottoman times. The exact authors are unknown and \"Moj dilbere\" is considered to be a traditional song.\n\n\n\n\"Sejdefu majka buđaše\" is a folk song that is believed to have originated in Sarajevo centuries ago, while the region of Bosnia was a part of the Ottoman Empire. The exact author is unknown.\n\nOver the centuries, the song spread amongst the Muslim populations in Podgorica and the Sandžak regions of Montenegro and Serbia.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54139490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54139490", "title": "Media pluralism", "text": "Media pluralism\n\nMedia pluralism defines the state of having a plurality of voices, opinions and analyses on media system (internal pluralism) or the coexistence of different and diverse types of medias and media support (external pluralism).\n\nMedia pluralism is often recognized by international organizations and non-governmental organizations as being an essential part of a democratic state, Reporters Without Borders considers \"access to a plurality of editorial lines and analyses [as] essential for citizens to be able to confront ideas, to make their own informed choices and to conduct their life freely\".\n\nExpanded access to the Internet and the digital switch-over has enabled an increased availability of media content, largely through sharing and user-generated content on social media, in addition to the digital channels to which individuals have access across television and radio. The diversity of content is however accompanied by what Hallin and Mancini call polarized pluralism in a media system.\n\nAccording to the World Trends Report, a sharper division in the way we use news is coming up due to the interaction between consumption habits, changing economic models and technical systems. This signifies that even if multiple kinds of information and programming are available, each segmented group may only ingest one branch of the whole. The increase of Internet penetration and reliance on online sources for news is thought of to producing siloed debates.\n\nAt the infrastructural level, ‘zero rating’— in which Internet or mobile service providers allow users to access specific content or applications without counting towards the user’s data ‘cap’— expands in parallel to mobile uptakes, particularly in emerging countries. Traditional business models for the news media continue to be disrupted, leading to vertical and horizontal concentration and introduction of new types of ownership. Challenges to media funding introduce new types of economic models such as pay-walls and crowd-funding initiatives.\n\nGender is a part of media pluralism and is characterized by the under-representation of women in the media workforce, in decision-making and in media content. People with disabilities are also under-represented in the media system.\n\n\nJakubowicz focuses on \"provisions\" or \"supply\" of media content and the impact of available information in a society. Evaluations of media pluralism have commonly explored the number of media outlets available; how comprehensively media outlets represent different groups and interests in society; and who owns or is able to influence the media. The explosion of access to media through the Internet, the increasingly common practice for users to consume information across a variety of platforms, and the rise of algorithmic profiling bring to the fore questions about users and how they access—or are shielded from accessing—a plurality of sources.\n\nAccess to information, as the ability for an individual to seek, receive and impart information effectively, is an aspect of media pluralism. It can include or allow \"scientific, indigenous, and traditional knowledge; freedom of information, building of open knowledge resources, including open Internet and open standards, and open access and availability of data; preservation of digital heritage; respect for cultural and linguistic diversity, such as fostering access to local content in accessible languages; quality education for all, including lifelong and e-learning; diffusion of new media and information literacy and skills, and social inclusion online, including addressing inequalities based on skills, education, gender, age, race, ethnicity, and accessibility by those with disabilities; and the development of connectivity and affordable ICTs, including mobile, the Internet, and broadband infrastructures\".\n\nMichael Buckland defines six types of barriers that have to be overcome in order for access to information to be achieved: identification of the source, availability of the source, price of the user, cost to the provider, cognitive access, acceptability. While “access to information”, “right to information”, “right to know” and “freedom of information” are sometimes used as synonyms, the diverse terminology does highlight particular (albeit related) dimensions of the issue.\nAccording to the World Trends Report, access to all types of media has increased between 2012 and 2017, but this is especially true for access to the Internet. International commitments such as the UN 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, the work of the Broadband Commission for Sustainable Development and the Internet Governance Forum’s intersessional work on ‘Connecting the Next Billion’ testify of this.\n\nAccording to the International Telecommunication Union (ITU), by the end of 2017, an estimated 48 per cent of individuals regularly connect to the internet, up from 34 per cent in 2012. Despite the significant increase in absolute numbers, however, in the same period the annual growth rate of Internet users has slowed down, with five per cent annual growth in 2017, dropping from a 10 per cent growth rate in 2012.\n\nMobile Internet connectivity has an impact in expanding access. The number of unique mobile cellular subscriptions increased from 3.89 billion in 2012 to 4.83 billion in 2016, two-thirds of the world’s population, with more than half of subscriptions located in Asia and the Pacific. The number of subscriptions is predicted to rise to 5.69 billion users in 2020. As of 2016, almost 60 per cent of the world’s population had access to a 4G broadband cellular network, up from almost 50 per cent in 2015 and 11 per cent in 2012. Unlike the open web affords explorations beyond a user’s immediate range of interests, Mobile Internet has the singularity of creating siloed information spaces predisposing mobile users to access only a limited portion of the available information. Censorship and surveillance are also factors of media pluralism as they cause different experiences for users accessing the Internet in different States.\n\nThe limits that users face on accessing information via mobile applications coincide with a broader process of fragmentation of the Internet. Zero-rating, the practice of internet providers allowing users free connectivity to access specific content or applications for free, has offered some opportunities for individuals to surmount economic hurdles, but has also been accused by its critics as creating a ‘two-tiered’ internet. To address the issues with zero-rating, an alternative model has emerged in the concept of ‘equal rating’ and is being tested in experiments by Mozilla and Orange in Africa. Equal rating prevents prioritization of one type of content and zero-rates all content up to a specified data cap. Some countries in the region had a handful of plans to choose from (across all mobile network operators) while others, such as Colombia, offered as many as 30 pre-paid and 34 post-paid plans.\n\nA study led by the Alliance for Affordable Internet (A4AI) of eight countries in the Global South found that zero-rated data plans exist in every country, although there is a great range in the frequency with which they are offered and actually used in each. Across the 181 plans examined, 13 per cent were offering zero-rated services. Another study, covering Ghana, Kenya, Nigeria and South Africa, found Facebook’s Free Basics and Wikipedia Zero to be the most commonly zero-rated content.\n\nIn Western Europe and North America, the primacy of television as a main source of information is being challenged by the internet, while in other regions, such as Africa, television is gaining greater audience share than radio, which has historically been the most widely accessed media platform. In the Arab region, geopolitical interests has contributed to the growing reach of state-owned global news broadcasters and has determined the launching of Arabic-language channels.\n\nAge plays a profound role in determining the balance between radio, television and the Internet as the leading source of news. According to the 2017 Reuters Institute Digital News Report, in 36 countries and territories surveyed, 51 per cent of adults 55 years and older consider television as their main news source, compared to only 24 per cent of respondents between 18 and 24. The pattern is reversed when it comes to online media, chosen by 64 per cent of users between 18 and 24 as their primary source, but only by 28 per cent of users 55 and older. According to the Arab Youth Survey, in 2016, 45 per cent of the young people interviewed considered social media as a major source of news.\n\nDigital transition is the process in which older analog television broadcasting is converted to and replaced by digital television.The International Telecommunication Union (ITU) has been mapping the progress in digital switchovers across the globe. According to them, the switch from analogue television to digital television has been completed in 56 countries in 2017, and was ongoing in 68, steadily increasing the range of channels to which individuals have access.\n\n\n\n\nThe Internet has challenged the press as an alternative source of information and opinion but has also provided a new platform for newspaper organizations to reach new audiences. Between 2012 and 2016, print newspaper circulation continued to fall in almost all regions, with the exception of Asia and the Pacific, where the dramatic increase in sales in a few select countries has offset falls in historically strong Asian markets such as Japan and the Republic of Korea. Between 2012 and 2016, India’s print circulation grew by 89 per cent. As many newspapers make the transition to online platforms, revenues from digital subscriptions and digital advertising have been growing significantly. How to capture more of this growth remains a pressing challenge for newspapers.\n\nPrint media is continuously affected by changing trends in advertising: in 2012 its share of total news media revenues globally dropped below 50 per cent and continued falling to 38 per cent in 2016. Newspapers transition to online platforms increase the volume of revenues from digital subscriptions and digital advertising. The main challenge that newspapers face, according to Cecilia Campbell, is how to capture more of the digital subscriptions and advertising growth.\n\nMedia systems are built from a variety of economic models including mixes of market, public service, community and state entities. A plurality of media owners and economic models serves as an essential element of external pluralism, guaranteed by competition in the market. Nonprofit public service and community media can help achieve internal pluralism by incorporating social and cultural diversity in the content they produce. Community media, drawing especially on volunteers, can be a unique source of local dialogue and information exchange. The lack of adaption and of efficient economic strategies from traditional media has led to proliferation of privately owned media. This involves a diversification of newspapers but may also affects quality journalism and media independence, especially with the financial contributions from \"backers\".\n\nIn 2012, the Arab States Broadcasting Union (ASBU) counted 1,230 television stations broadcasting via Arab and international satellites, of which 133 were state-owned and 1,097 private. The reduction of government owned channels in the media sector is paralleled by a growth in outlets with a sectarian agenda. In some countries, private media outlets often maintain close ties to governments or individual politicians , while media houses owned by politically non-aligned individuals have struggled to survive, often in the face of advertising boycotts by state agencies. According to the European Broadcasting Union (EBU), public service broadcasting tend to struggle with fundings and to decline since 2012.\n\nMedia privatization and the lessening of the State dominance over media content is a global trend, according to the World Trends Report.\n\n\nCross-ownership is a method of reinforcing business relationships by owning stock in the companies with which a given company does business. Drawing the line between the media and other industries is a challenge for new types of cross-ownership. The acquisition of the Washington Post by the founder of online retailer Amazon raised concerns about the newspaper independence, the newspaper has significantly increased its standing in the online media—and print—and introduced significant innovations.\n\nMost common in isolated, rural or disadvantaged areas community-centered media ownership is also mostly pertaining to radio. Through this model, not-for-profit media outlets are run and managed by the communities. They are also characterized as \"independent and governed by and in the service of the communities they serve\" and represent what UNESCO calls the \"third pillar\" of the media with commercial and public broadcasters.\n\nOne of the challenges to traditional media is advertisement, which has evolved since 2010. According to the World Trends Report, between 2012 and 2016, revenues from advertisement in print have decreased by 27 percent In 2012, print advertising’s share of total news advertising revenue was 48 per cent, falling to 38 per cent by 2016. Circulation of digital versions of traditional newspapers and digital advertisements have grown significantly, but have not been sufficient to offset losses in print. Once the transitioning phase from old media to digital media is over, revenues from digital advertisement tend to increase. This phenomenon pushed advertisers to pay premium prices to quality publications.\n\nTauel Harper considers that with the rise of big data, media have been seen to lose the \"advertising subsidy\" for journalistic content, through which \"private\" advertising paid for \"public journalism\". Big data analytics place their ads in front of individual media consumers regardless of the particular content they are consuming. This includes political advertising, which sometimes serves to bypass the significance of news in election contexts.\n\nThe New York Times in the United States, or the Mail & Guardian in South Africa use extensions or variations of existing schemes such as pay-walls created by publications considered to be of particularly high quality or addressing a particular niche.\n\nThe Guardian uses Wikipedia's borrowed strategy of frequently asking readers for donations in support to quality journalism or free content.\n\nIn various sectors, the number of crowdfunded journalism projects has increased significantly. While in 2012, 88 projects received funding through the platform, in 2015, the number of projects rose to 173, scattered across 60 countries (even if North America continues to register the majority of funded projects). The funds collected grew from $1.1 million in 2012 to $1.9 million in 2015.\n\nEconomic models also depend on larger structural reconfiguration of the market. While in 2012 advertising revenues from mobile represented a tiny portion of the market in the United States, in 2016 they surpassed revenues from all other platforms.\n\nMedia actors have also started testing new formats and technologies of journalism, experimenting with how virtual reality or gaming can facilitate immersive experiences of relatively distant events. In 2015 for example, the New York Times opened its Virtual Reality Lab, seeking to provide original perspectives on issues ranging from the war in Iraq, to the conflict in South Sudan, to the thinning of the ice cap in Antarctica. The Virtual Reality app proved the most downloaded in the history of interactive applications launched by the paper. Awareness raising video games have also been developed such as Games for Social Change, which involve students.\n\nAccording to Cisco Systems, in 2016 an average of 96,000 petabytes was transferred monthly over the Internet, more than twice as many as in 2012. In 2016, the number of active websites surpassed 1 billion, up from approximately 700 million in 2012.\n\nReaching two billion daily active users in June 2017, Facebook has emerged as the most popular social media platform globally. Other social media platforms are also dominant at the regional level such as: Twitter in Japan, Naver in the Republic of Korea, Instagram (owned by Facebook) and LinkedIn (owned by Microsoft) in Africa, VKontakte (VK) and Odnoklassniki in Russia and other countries in Central and Eastern Europe, WeChat and QQ in China.\n\nHowever, a concentration phenomenon is occurring globally giving the dominance to a few online platforms that become popular for some unique features they provide, most commonly for the added privacy they offer users through disappearing messages or end-to-end encryption (e.g. WhatsApp, Snapchat, Signal, and Telegram), but they have tended to occupy niches and to facilitate the exchanges of information that remain rather invisible to larger audiences.\n\nProduction of freely accessible information has been increasing since 2012. In January 2017, Wikipedia had more than 43 million articles, almost twice as many as in January 2012. This corresponded to a progressive diversification of content and increase in contributions in languages other than English. In 2017, less than 12 per cent of Wikipedia content was in English, down from 18 per cent in 2012. Graham, Straumann, and Hogan say that increase in the availability and diversity of content has not radically changed the structures and processes for the production of knowledge. For example, while content on Africa has dramatically increased, a significant portion of this content has continued to be produced by contributors operating from North America and Europe, rather than from Africa itself.\n\nThe proliferation of online sources represents a vector leading to an increase in pluralism but algorithms used by social networking platforms and search engines to provide users with a personalized experience based on their individual preferences represent a challenge to pluralism, restricting exposure to differing viewpoints and news feed. This is commonly referred to as \"eco-chambers\" and \"filter-bubbles\".\n\nWith the help of algorithms, filter bubbles influence users choices and perception of reality by giving the impression that a particular point of view or representation is widely shared. Following the 2016 referendum of membership of the European Union in the United Kingdom and the United States presidential elections, this gained attention as many individuals confessed their surprise at results that seemed very distant from their expectations. The range of pluralism is influenced by the personalized individualization of the services and the way it diminishes choice.\n\nResearch on echo chambers from Flaxman, Goel, and Rao, Pariser, and Grömping suggest that use of social media and search engines tends to increase ideological distance among individuals.\n\nComparisons between online and off-line segregation have indicated how segregation tends to be higher in face-to-face interactions with neighbors, co-workers, or family members, and reviews of existing research have indicated how available empirical evidence does not support the most pessimistic views about polarization. A study conducted by researchers from Facebook and the University of Michigan, for example, has suggested that individuals’ own choices drive algorithmic filtering, limiting exposure to a range of content. While algorithms may not be causing polarization, they could amplify it, representing a significant component of the new information landscape.\n\nThe term \"fake news\" gained importance with the electoral context in Western Europe and North America. It is determined by fraudulent content in news format and its velocity. According to Bounegru, Gray, Venturini and Mauri, fake news is when a deliberate lie \"is picked up by dozens of other blogs, retransmitted by hundreds of websites, cross-posted over thousands of social media accounts and read by hundreds of thousands\" that it then effectively becomes \"fake news\".\n\nThe evolving nature of online business models encourages the production of information that is \"click-worthy\" independently of its accuracy.\n\nThe nature of trust depends on the assumptions that non-institutional forms of communication are freer from power and more able to report information that mainstream media are perceived as unable or unwilling to reveal. Declines in confidence in much traditional media and expert knowledge have created fertile grounds for alternative, and often obscure sources of information to appear as authoritative and credible. This ultimately leaves users confused about basic facts.\n\nInternet companies with threatened credibility tend to develop new responses to limit fake news and reduce financial incentives for its proliferation.\n\nThe media covering of marginalized groups such as refugees tend to be influenced by and influence the political and social perceptions. While a large proportion of the European press initially articulated a sympathetic and empathetic response towards the humanitarian crisis caused by the conflict in Syria, according to Georgiou and Zaborowski, this sentiment was gradually replaced by suspicion and, in some cases, hostility towards refugees and migrants. Both the quality and tabloid press tended to employ ‘established, stereotyped narratives’ of security threats and economic costs. Gábor and Messing consider that a portion of the press, especially in Central and Eastern Europe, turned to systematic hostility towards migrants and refugees.\n\nGate-keeping mechanisms continue to influence not only what is being communicated, but also who is given the opportunity to frame events. Citizens’ voices have indeed increased in new stories, individuals included in these stories tend to be treated, not as agents capable of asserting their world views and their interpretation of events, but rather as vox-pol, employed to add color to a narrative. Harlow and Johnson consider that in the case of protests, demonstrations or conflicts, established institutions and elites tend to prevail as news sources. Although novel media operations and actors have had a smaller impact on mainstream reporting, they have been instrumental in animating intermediate spaces, which aggregate content in ways that can reach broader audiences.\n\nAs users increasingly move from broadcast to online media to access information, the same large media institutions tend to predominate online spaces, even if filtered and mediated in much of their social media presence. A decade later, the majority of the most visited and viewed news websites remain traditional media outlets (CNN, New York Times, the Guardian, Washington Post, BBC), although news aggregation websites such as Reddit and Google News have emerged among the top five sites with the highest web traffic.\n\nAuthors Frau-Meigs, Velez, and Michel (2017) and Frau-Meigs and Torrent (2009) consider diversity in media can also be enhanced by media and information literacy (MIL). They argue that it can be useful in understanding the consequences of algorithms on modes of diffusion. Many types of MIL exist from information literacy, media literacy, news literacy, advertising literacy, digital literacy, media education, to digital and media literacy. A few initiatives already exist in the field:\n\n\n\nTuchman, Daniels, and Benoit (1978) use the term \"symbolic annihilation\" (originally credited to George Gerbner) to describe women's relationship to and visibility in mass media. According to the Global Media Monitoring Project, women’s visibility in newspaper, television and radio increased by only seven percentage points between 1995 (17 per cent) and 2015 (24 per cent).\n\nRegional and international organizations also recognize gender and media pluralism as often being problematic:\n\n\nAccording to Byerly, in many countries, as many women as men are graduating from media, journalism and communication degree programmes and entering the industry. In 1995, when the first substantial analysis of women media professionals across 43 nations was produced, women constituted around 40 per cent of the media workforce. A Global Media Monitoring Project (GMMP) 2015 report found that 31 per cent of stories on politics and 39 per cent of stories about the economy have female by-lines. Researchers from the US, Harp, Bachmann, and Loke, show that while women journalists are writing on a wider range of topics, they are still a minority of columnist at the major dailies. In terms of presenting on broadcast news, the 2015 GMMP found that the global proportion of women was 49 per cent, the same as in 2000 and two percentage points below the 1995 finding. Since 2005, the number of women working as reporters in broadcast news has dropped by four percentage points in television and radio.\n\nCloser analysis shows that women were more numerous on television (57 per cent), for example, and less numerous on radio (41 per cent), where ‘looks’ are obviously far less important. The majority of younger presenters were women, but that trend reversed for older presenters, nearly all of whom were men. There were almost no women reporters recorded as older than 65. Part of this is likely due to recent improvements that have allowed more young women to enter the field, but it could also relate to the differences in how aging is perceived between men and women, as well as limitations in career advancement.\n\nThe Women’s Media Center (WMC) 2017 report on women and the media in the USA shows that at 20 of the nation’s top news outlets, women produced 37.7 per cent of news reports, an increase of 0.4 percentage points compared to 2016. In broadcast news, women’s presence as anchors, reporters and field journalists actually declined by nearly seven percentage points between 2015 and 2016.\n\nThe Global Report on the Status of Women in the News Media found that women in media occupied just over a quarter of the jobs in top management (27 per cent) and governance (26 per cent) positions. The regions that fared best for women representation were Central (33 per cent) and Eastern Europe (43 per cent) and the Nordic countries (36 per cent). Elsewhere, women comprised only about a fifth of governance positions and held less than 10 per cent of top management jobs in Asia and the Pacific region. A major European project funded by the European Institute for Gender Equality (EIGE) found very similar findings: men held most of the senior management positions and board membership in 99 media houses across the European Union.\n\nIn the Asia and Pacific region, a joint report by the UNESCO Office in Bangkok, UN Women and the International Federation of Journalists (IFJ) Asia Pacific found women were significantly under-represented in decision-making roles. In Southern Africa, a Gender Links study found that women constitute 40 per cent of media employees and 34 per cent of media managers. The study also revealed that sexual harassment remains a key issue for women: just under 20 per cent of women media professionals said that they had personal experience of sexual harassment and the majority of those women said that the perpetrator was a senior colleague.\n\nThe 2015 GMMP made a comparison across 20 years of women's representation in the media and assessed that between 1995 (17 percent) and 2015 (24 percent), female appearances in television, radio and print rose by only seven percentage points. Sarah Macharia highlights the fact that where women most often appear in media, it is when they speak from personal experience (representing 38 per cent), while only 20 per cent of spokespersons and 19 per cent of experts featured in stories are women. Women featured in stories as 32 per cent of experts interviewed in North America, followed by the Caribbean (29 per cent) and Latin America (27 per cent). In the southern African region, Gender Links’ 2016 Gender and Media Progress Study covered 14 countries and found that women’s views and voices accounted for a mere 20 per cent of news sources across Southern Africa media.\n\n"}
{"id": "32380102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32380102", "title": "Multi-step flow theory", "text": "Multi-step flow theory\n\nThe multi-step flow theory assumes ideas flow from mass media to opinion leaders before being disseminated to a wider population. This theory was first introduced by sociologist Paul Lazarsfeld et al. in 1944 and elaborated by Elihu Katz and Lazarsfeld in 1955.\n\nThe multi-step flow theory also states opinion leaders are affected more by “elite media” than run-of-the-mill, mass media. This is evident by political opinion leaders receiving their information from unconventional sources such as The Huffington Post, instead of Fox News or MSNBC.\n\nAccording to the multi-step flow theory, opinion leaders intervene between the “media’s direct message and the audience’s reaction to that message.” Opinion leaders tend to have the great effect on those they are most similar to—based on personality, interests, demographics, or socio-economic factors. These leaders tend to influence others to change their attitudes and behaviors more quickly than conventional media because the audience is able to better identify or relate to an opinion leader than an article in a newspaper or a news program.\n\nThis media influence theory shows that information dissemination is a social occurrence, which may explain why certain media campaigns do not alter audiences’ attitudes.\n\nAn important factor of the multi-step flow theory is how the social influence is modified. Information is affected by the social norms of each new community group that it enters. It is also shaped by conflicting views surrounding it.\n\nBusinesses and politicians have harnessed the power of opinion leaders. An example of this phenomenon is how individuals and companies have turned to Twitter influencers and bloggers to increase hype around specific topics.\n\nDuring the 2008 Presidential Elections, Sean Combs became an opinion leader for voting with his \"Vote or Die\" campaign.\n\nFormer Vice President, Al Gore also utilized the multi-step flow theory to gain support for his nonprofit, The Climate Project. Gore recruited individuals who were educated on environmental issues and had the ability to be influential in their community and amongst their friends and family. He then trained his opinion leaders on the information he wanted them to disseminate. This ultimately enabled them to educate many Americans about The Climate Project and Gore’s overall ideas about climate change.\n\n\"Media Now: understanding media, culture and technology\"; Straubhaar, LaRose, Davenport\n"}
{"id": "13886217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13886217", "title": "Nordland (boat)", "text": "Nordland (boat)\n\nThe Nordland boat (or ), is a type of fishing boat that has been used for centuries in northern counties of Nordland, Troms and Finnmark of Norway and derives its name from Nordland county where it has a long history. It has dominated the Lofoten and Vesterålen islands fishing industry for centuries and is closely related to the old Viking longships.\n\nThe Nordland boat has a clinker, or lapstrake hull design and has its rudder on the sternpost. Its length varies from 14 to well over 40 feet and usually has a length to beam ratio of 3-1 to 4-1. It has a high prow and stern, shallow keel, v-hull and has an inboard gunwale, which can be used to drain off the fishing nets when they are drawn on board. Some of the larger Nordlanders have a detachable cabin that is used for shelter, often having a wood burning stove inside.\n\nThe Nordlander normally carries a large single square sail with the largest boats carrying a topsail. It's one of the few types of boats that still carries such a sail to the present day.\n\nOak had been a favorite wood for ship builders for centuries for its resistance to rot, strength, and durability. However, oak is not native to Norway north of the county of Trøndelag and is also a heavy wood which would make such boats difficult to pull up on shore, which was done on a daily basis. For these reasons, the materials used for the Nordland is almost exclusively pine, and in the northern regions, fir. Pine and fir are lighter woods which would make it easier to be drawn up on shore, but at the expense of durability.\n\nThe Nordland boat has a very long history in the north Norwegian coastline, with both Norwegians and Sami, who are first recorded as sailing such boats from about 950 onwards. Around 1000 AD the Sami were described as producing Nordlandbots for their Norwegian customers along the northern coastal farming communities, which the Norwegians soon started to build for themselves.\n\nOne of the biggest differences between the Norwegian and Sami built Nordlands is that the Sami 'sewed' the lapstrakes together using reindeer intestines, while the Norwegians used iron rivets. Nordland boats continued to be built for over 1,000 years, and in the early 20th century it was still used for fishing and coastal transport.\nOne of the unique features of the Nordland is its ballast system. Dozens of fist size round rocks are placed at the bottom of the boat to keep the boat weighted down. In the event that the boat is either swamped or capsizes, the rocks are designed to roll out of the boat which would lighten the boat and thus keep it afloat.\n\nNordland boats today are no longer used as primarily fishing boats but as pleasure craft and have annual races. The coat-of-arms of Nordland County shows the traditional boat - \"the Nordlandsbåt\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28880633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28880633", "title": "Ouled Djerir", "text": "Ouled Djerir\n\nThe Ouled Djerir () are a small Arab tribe of the Bechar area in southwestern Algeria. Their close alliance with the neighbouring Doui-Menia has led them to be counted as the \"sixth fifth\" of that tribe. Their economy was traditionally based on camel-herding along with a little agriculture.\n"}
{"id": "47603798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47603798", "title": "Pashtun Americans", "text": "Pashtun Americans\n\nPashtun Americans () are Americans who are of ethnic Pashtun origin, hailing from Afghanistan and Pakistan.\n\nIn the United States, the Pashtuns are a sub-community within the wider Pakistani American and Afghan American communities. Areas with large populations include New York City, where there are over 12,000 Pashtuns, as well as the San Francisco Bay Area, Virginia, Los Angeles, Georgia and Oregon. Fremont, California has the largest Afghan community in the United States. According to the 2010 Census, 15,788 individuals identified Pashto as their first language spoken at home.\n\nA small number of Pashtun Americans have served in the United States Armed Forces, in varying roles in the War in Afghanistan. Lieutenant Colonel Asad A. Khan, a Pakistani-American marine, was a member of one of the first conventional units to enter Afghanistan. Khan would return to Afghanistan in command of the 1st Battalion 6th Marines in 2004; only to be later relieved of command. Pfc. Usman Khattak, an ethnic Pashtun from northwest Pakistan, is a US Army Food Specialist with the 539th Transportation Division and is based at the US Army camp in Kuwait.\n\nThe Voice of America has a Pashto language service.\n\nThe Pakhtoon American Community Association (PACA) is a cultural association based in Maryland, which organizes an annual Pashto Conference, in addition to other events. The Khyber Society, founded in 1986 in New York, also arranges cultural events.\n\n"}
{"id": "37757013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37757013", "title": "Purigpa", "text": "Purigpa\n\nThe Purigpa are a community found in Jammu and Kashmir in India.\n\n, the Purigpa were classified as a Scheduled Tribe under the Indian government's reservation program of positive discrimination.\n"}
{"id": "3614810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3614810", "title": "RosUkrEnergo", "text": "RosUkrEnergo\n\nRosUkrEnergo is a Swiss-registered venture company that transports natural gas from Turkmenistan to East European countries. 50% of the company is owned by Gazprom, through its daughter Swiss-registered Rosgas Holding A.G., and another 50% by Swiss-registered private company Centragas Holding A.G., acting on behalf of a consortium of GDF Group owned by Dmytro Firtash and .\n\nBefore 2009 Russia–Ukraine gas dispute, it was the sole importer of natural gas from Gazprom reselling it to Naftogaz Ukrainy.\n\nThe company was created in July 2004 in a deal by former Ukrainian President Leonid Kuchma and his Russian counterpart Vladimir Putin to replace Eural Trans Gas. Until 2006 the company acted as a middleman between Turkmenistan and Ukraine. The company also sells Turkmenistan gas to Poland. Due to an agreement between Gazprom and Naftogaz, from 2006 till January 2009 the company supplied all of Ukraine's natural gas imports from Russia and other Central Asian countries, in addition to Turkmenistan. On October 24, 2008 Gazprom and Ukraine's national energy company Naftogaz signed a long-term cooperation deal in which was stated that Ukraine will receive Russian natural gas directly from Gazprom and Naftogaz will be the sole importer of Russian natural gas.\n\nAfter weeks of disputes the head of Gazprom Alexei Miller and the head of Naftohaz Ukrainy Oleh Dubyna signed the 10-year agreement on natural gas supplies to Ukraine for the period of 2009-2019 on 19 January 2009. It was agreed that RosUkrEnergo will no longer supply all of Ukraine's natural gas imports from Russia and other Central Asian countries. A claim of a $600 million debt of Naftohaz to RosUkrEnergo was also dropped.\n\nOn March 4, 2009 Officers of the Security Service of Ukraine (SBU) and the Alfa special police unit searched the headquarters of Naftohaz Ukrainy in a case against officials of Naftohaz Ukrainy on embezzlement of 6.3 billion cubic meters of transit natural gas, according to Valerii Khoroshkovskyi, first deputy chairman of the Security Service of Ukraine, the RosUkrEnergo Company and a number of Verkhovna Rada’s deputies had filed in a claim against Naftohaz Ukrainy. On March 17, 2009 a criminal case was filed against officials of the Naftohaz Ukrainy national joint-stock company on suspicion of stealing 6.3 billion cubic meters of natural gas intended for transit through Ukraine by the SBU.\n\nOn March 30, 2010 an international arbitration court in Stockholm ordered Naftohas Ukrainy to pay RosUkrEnergo around $200 million as a penalty for various breaches of supply, transit and storage contracts. On June 8, 2010 the Stockholm Arbitration Tribunal ordered Naftohaz to return 11 bcm of natural gas to RosUkrEnergo and that RosUkrEnergo would receive from Naftohaz a further 1.1 bcm of natural gas in lieu of RosUkrEnergo's entitlement to penalties for breach of contract. On April 26, 2011 former Ukrainian Prime Minister Yulia Tymoshenko sued Dmytro Firtash and RosUkrEnergo in a U.S. District Court in Manhattan accusing them of \"defrauding Ukraine's citizenry\" by manipulating an arbitration court ruling, \"undermining the rule of law in Ukraine\" in connection with the 2010 international arbitration court ruling in Stockholm.\n\nEural Trans Gas (ETG) was an energy company registered in Budapest, Hungary, on December 6, 2002. It was suspected of acting as a Gazprom front. Andras Knopp, a former Hungarian communist cultural functionary with no knowledge of the gas business, became director of the company. The registered owner was Dmytro Firtash, an obscure Ukrainian national who reportedly had little if any known assets. Yet the person received almost $300 million in credits from Russian banks.\n\nETG maintained an account at a Budapest branch of Vienna's Raiffeisen Bank and had a number of accounts in Vienna's Meinl Bank.\n\nFormer Ukrainian Prime-Minister Yulia Tymoshenko stated in November 2006, the company is controlled by notorious Ukrainian-born Jewish Russian mafia boss Semion Mogilevich, while in 2009 Vladimir Putin was quoted as claiming that RosUkrEnergo is owned by a business ally of Viktor Yushchenko. The Ukrainian investigation into RosUkrEnergo begun during Tymoshenko's previous term as Prime Minister was closed after she lost her position as Prime Minister in September 2005. According to a document uncovered during the United States diplomatic cables leak US-diplomats shared Tymoshenko's suspicions.\n\nIn April 2006, London-based corruption watchdog Global Witness published a report focusing on RosUkrEnergo and other transit companies that have acted as intermediaries between Turkmenistan, Russia and Ukraine. The report highlighted the many links in personnel between RosUkrEnergo and the previous intermediary Eural Trans Gas. According to the report, Israeli lawyer Zeev Gordon had registered Eural Trans Gas on behalf of Ukrainian businessman Dmytro Firtash. Also in late April 2006, \"Izvestia\" reported that the primary shareholder of RosUkrEnergo is Dmytro Firtash. The report stated that he owned 90% of CentraGas Holding, equaling 45% of RosUkrEnergo. The report stated that a further owner is another Ukrainian businessman Ivan Fursin, the primary shareholder of the Odessa Film Studio and an owner of Misto-bank. His stake was revealed to be 10% of CentraGas and therefore a 5% owner of RosUkrEnergo.\n\nRosUkrEnergo reported a 2005 profit of $755 million and paid $735 million in dividends.\n\nThe company's 2006 profit is listed at over $785 million.\n\nRosUkrEnergo profit for January–September 2007 is reported at $213 million.\n\nThe company makes its profit on re-exporting gas to Europe. The size of the profit is defined by Gazprom through the export allowances of about 9 billion cubic meters a year. RosUkrEnergo supplies gas to the Hungarian gas distributor Emfesz, for example, which is also controlled by Firtash via his holding company Group DF.\n\nEffectively, by engaging in this supply scheme Gazprom transfers profits from its shareholders to the shareholders of RosUkrEnergo.\n\nBoard of Directors:\n\nExecutive Directors:\n\nCoordination Committee:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2265903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2265903", "title": "Sokwanele", "text": "Sokwanele\n\nSokwanele is a popular protest underground movement based in Zimbabwe. They are pro-democracy, and they embrace supporters of all pro-democratic political parties, civic organisations and institutions. Sokwanele is committed to challenging and confronting – through non-violent activism – the way in which the ruling party, Zanu-PF, governs Zimbabwe. Sokwanele is not affiliated to the opposition Movement for Democratic Change (MDC) at all; in fact, the group's website very clearly states that they do not aspire to political office. \n\nSokwanele means 'enough is enough' in Ndebele; the Shona equivalent of the name is 'Zvakwana'.\n\nSokwanele communicates with its supporters primarily via a newsletter that people can subscribe to online. They also have a website, and they run a regularly updated blog entitled \"This is Zimbabwe\". The government has imposed very tight restrictions on the media in Zimbabwe, and very few newspapers or radio stations that are critical of the government are permitted to operate. Sokwanele's communications provide a critical and impartial assessment of the government's actions, regularly reporting on corruption, human rights violations and bad governance.\n\nSokwanele closely monitored, in the 22 weeks leading up to the parliamentary elections on 31 March 2005, the government's compliance with the Southern African Development Community (SADC) protocol 'Principles and Guidelines Governing Democratic Elections'. The protocol was agreed by SADC leaders in Mauritius on 17 August 2004 and Zimbabwe was one of the signatories. Sokwanele circulated their weekly assessments through a special newsletter entitled 'Mauritius Watch'. Their final report based on the mounting evidence of non-compliance concluded that the elections were deeply flawed and did not satisfy the SADC principles and guidelines, and therefore could not possibly be considered 'free and fair'. They reached this conclusion before the elections took place.\n\nOn polling day itself, Sokwanele blogged regular updates from activists on the ground who alerted them to unscrupulous government activities which included refusing access to polling agents from the main opposition party, imprisoning MDC agents, incommunicado, after the vote; and controlling all forms of communication to and from the polling stations. They also reported on the difficulty that some voters had in trying to vote, and reports from voters of the presence of dead relatives on the voter's roll. On the basis of this evidence, after the voting was over, Sokwanele went on to produce a report that detailed the hour by hour events on polling day into how they allege the government comprehensively rigged the elections.\n\nMore recently, Sokwanele has written several articles critical of the government's 'Operation Murambatsvina (Operation Drive Out Trash).' Using Flickr, Sokwanele has also compiled a set of photographs depicting the impact of Operation Murambatsvina on ordinary Zimbabwean civilians.\n\nSokwanele – key links\nMedia reports\nOther useful links\n"}
{"id": "44805347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44805347", "title": "The Gypsy (film)", "text": "The Gypsy (film)\n\nThe Gypsy (, ) is a 1975 French-Italian crime-drama film written and directed by José Giovanni. It is based on Giovanni's novel \"Histoire de fou\".\n\nIt recorded admissions of 1,788,111 in France.\n\n"}
{"id": "32847552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32847552", "title": "The Milky Way Project", "text": "The Milky Way Project\n\nThe Milky Way Project is a Zooniverse project whose main goal is to identify stellar-wind bubbles in the Milky Way Galaxy. Users classify sets of infrared images from the Spitzer Space Telescope and the Wide-field Infrared Survey Explorer (WISE). Scientists believe bubbles in these images are the result of young, massive stars whose light causes shocks in interstellar gas.\n\nThe Milky Way Project works with data taken from the Multiband Imaging Photometer for Spitzer Galactic Plane Survey (MIPSGAL) and Galactic Legacy Infrared Mid-Plane Survey Extraordinaire (GLIMPSE). Only a small part uses WISE data. The project looks for bubbles, which can mean the formation of stars. The project also looks for knots, star clusters, and other objects such as young stars, supernova remnants, and newly discovered galaxies.\n\nThe Milky Way Project started as the ninth Zooniverse project in December 2010. The \"phase 1\" worked with the colors: 4.5 μm for blue, 8.0 μm for green and 24 μm for red. This resulted in the Data Release 1 (DR1) of the Milky Way Project in 2012 with 5,106 bubbles, which can also be found in SIMBAD.\n\nThe \"annulus tool\" that was used to mark the bubbles in the Milky Way Project \"phase 1\" was at random round and needed improvement. This problem was solved after the introduction of the \"ellipse tool\". This new tool was used in the \"phase 2\" of the project, short after DR1. This changed the classification and the tool does fit the actual shape of the bubbles. The phase 2 also used different colors: 3.6 μm for blue, 4.5 μm for green and 8.0 μm for red. The same three colors as GLIMPSE 360 in Aladin Lite. \"Phase 3\" is also called Phoenix since it started after a year offline and it is now active. Phase 3 uses the same colors as phase 1 and the same ellipse tool as phase 2, combining the strength of phase 1+2.\n\nThe Milky Way Project did also search for star clusters and galaxies. Phase 2 additionally did search for Extended Green Objects (EGO), 4.5 μm emissions that seem to be connected to outflow from massive young stellar objects. The volunteers did mention objects that are compact and yellow in the Milky Way Project. They are now called \"yellow balls\", a mix of compact star-forming regions that show transition into bubbles. In the phase 3 the volunteers can additionally search for yellowballs, pillars and bowshocks. Phase 3 aims to create a reliable bubble catalog (DR2) with the data from phase 2+3 (4.4 million classifications), an improved yellowball catalog and the largest bowshock catalog to date. For this goal the 24 μm part of the image is important: Bubbles are more easy to spot and bowshocks are most of the time visible at this wavelength.\n\nThe \"MWP classification aggregation pipeline\" is continuously tested and modified to avoid issues that were encountered in DR1.\n\nZooniverse projects:\n"}
{"id": "96386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=96386", "title": "Tiki culture", "text": "Tiki culture\n\nTiki culture is a 20th-century theme used in Polynesian-style restaurants and clubs originally in the United States and then, to a lesser degree, around the world. Although inspired in part by tiki carvings and mythology, the connection is loose and stylized, being an American form and not a Polynesian fine art form. \n\nTiki culture in the United States began in 1933 with the opening of Don's Beachcomber, later changed to Don the Beachcomber, a Polynesian-themed bar and restaurant in Hollywood. The proprietor was Ernest Raymond Beaumont-Gantt, a young man from Texas who had sailed throughout the South Pacific; later he legally changed his name to Donn Beach. His restaurant featured Cantonese cuisine and exotic rum punches, with a decor of flaming torches, rattan furniture, flower leis, and brightly colored fabrics. Three years later, Victor Bergeron, better known as Trader Vic, adopted a tiki theme for his restaurant in Oakland, which eventually grew to become a worldwide chain. The theme took on a life of its own during the restaurant's growth in the Bay Area. The Trader Vic's in Palo Alto even spawned architectural choices, such as the concept behind the odd-looking Tiki Inn Motel, which still exists as the Stanford Terrace Inn.\n\nCalifornia's World's Fair in 1939 – the Golden Gate International Exposition – celebrated for the first time Polynesian culture in the United States. The theme of this fair was \"Pageant of the Pacific\" primarily showcasing the goods of nations bordering the Pacific Ocean. The theme was physically symbolized by \"The Tower of the Sun\" and a giant, 80-foot statue of Pacifica, goddess of the Pacific Ocean.\n\nTiki culture of mid-century America was primarily born in the restaurant industry. Don the Beachcomber's in Hollywood, California, is largely credited as being the first tiki restaurant from which all other eateries and bars \"borrowed.\" Donn Beach, the founder of Don The Beachcomber, is also credited as having created the tropical drink genre singlehandedly. Beach was the first restaurateur to mix flavored syrups and fresh fruit juices with rum. These drinks were called Rhum Rhapsodies and made Don the Beachcomber's restaurant the hot spot for Hollywood elite and stars from the 1940s well into the 1960s. By the mid to late 1950s, many restaurateurs had begun to copy, and in some cases, steal Beach's theme, food and cocktails. Many eventually created their own cocktails and signature food dishes based on Asian themes. Beach is credited for having created some of the most memorable exotic cocktails such as the Scorpion and the Zombie. Howard Hughes was a regular at the Hollywood Don the Beachcomber, as were Charlie Chaplin and Frank Sinatra.\n\nVictor \"Trader Vic\" Bergeron was a Beach contemporary and the founder of Trader Vic's restaurant chain. Both created a variety of \"Polynesian\" dishes, including crab Rangoon and rumaki.\n\nThe Mai Tai is considered to be the quintessential tiki cocktail. A protracted feud between Beach and Bergeron erupted when both claimed to have invented the Mai Tai.\n\nMost tiki-themed establishments served at least some of their cocktails in ceramic mugs depicting tikis, also known as tiki mugs. The styles and sizes varied widely. Most restaurants offered their signature drink in a tiki mug that the patron was able to take home. This led to a large number of tiki mugs surviving as souvenirs. Today, the tiki mug is a highly prized find and is considered to be as much a symbol of the tiki culture as a tiki itself.\n\nWith the resurgence of tiki culture in the later part of the 1990s, a resurgence in the interest of the original exotic cocktails has grown as well. Jeff \"Beachbum\" Berry released several drink books containing the recipes for many of the signature drinks from long lost tiki restaurants and bars, as well as classic tiki cocktails from Trader Vic's and Don the Beachcombers.\n\nToday, Trader Vic's is the only major restaurant chain still in operation. However, a new Don The Beachcomber was opened in Huntington Beach, California in 2009—having taken over Sam's Seafood Restaurant/Kona. Sam's was also a long lived tiki-themed restaurant that dated back to the 1940s. It was sold in 2007 and the name was changed to Kona for a short period before the current owner of the Don The Beachcomber corporate name took it over.\n\nWhen American servicemen returned home from World War II, they brought with them stories and souvenirs from the South Pacific. James Michener won the 1948 Pulitzer Prize for his collection of short stories, \"Tales of the South Pacific\", which in turn was the basis for \"South Pacific\", the 1949 musical by Rodgers and Hammerstein, also a Pulitzer Prize winner.\n\nIn addition to the returning WWII veterans, several other factors contributed to the mid-century American explosion in Polynesian pop culture or tiki culture. Post-war America saw the rise of the middle class as an economic force. This coupled with ever-increasing affordability of travel, particularly newly established air travel to Hawaii, helped to propel the nation's interest in all things tropical. The excitement surrounding the 1947 Kon-Tiki expedition helped to promote tiki culture. Hawaiian statehood in 1959 was a major factor which further drove the tropical lifestyle popularity, and Americans fell in love with their romanticized version of an exotic culture.\n\nPolynesian design began to infuse every aspect of the country's visual aesthetic, from home accessories to architecture. Single family homes, apartment complexes, business and even large shopping and living districts of some cities were heavily influenced by Polynesian aesthetics. However, by the 1980s, most of the Polynesian aesthetic had been completely wiped away in the name of progress. Nevertheless, some architectural examples of homes, apartments and restaurant buildings remain. A small handful of locations still contain carved tikis.\n\nSoon came integration of the idea into music by artists like Les Baxter, Arthur Lyman, and Martin Denny, who blended the tiki idea through jazz augmented with Polynesian, Asian, and Latin instruments and \"tropical\" themes creating the Exotica genre. This music blended the elements of Afro-Cuban rhythms, unusual instrumentations, environmental sounds, and lush romantic themes from Hollywood movies, topped off with evocative titles like \"Jaguar God\", into a cultural hybrid native to nowhere.\n\nThere were two primary strains of this kind of exotica: jungle and tiki. Jungle exotica was a Hollywood creation, with its roots in Tarzan movies and further back, to William Henry Hudson's novel \"Green Mansions\". Les Baxter was the king of jungle exotica, and spawned a host of imitators.\n\nTiki exotica was introduced with Martin Denny's Waikiki nightclub jungle noises arrangement of Baxter's \"Quiet Village\". Tiki rode a wave of popularity in the late 1950s and early 1960s marked by the entrance of Hawaii as the 50th state in 1959 and the introduction of tiki bars and restaurants around the continental United States.\n\nThe visual iconography of the CBS-TV series \"Gilligan's Island\", which was originally broadcast in 1964-1967, borrowed significantly from tiki culture, with the \"castaways\" depicted as building huts, furniture, and housewares that resembled elements of fantasy-Polynesian culture presented to Americans by period bars and restaurants.\n\nA 1972 episode of \"The Brady Bunch\" took place in Hawaii and involved a magical, taboo tiki idol that becomes the center of the plot.\n\nThe mid-1990s saw the beginning of a revival of the tiki culture and a rise in popularity for traditional tiki cocktails in craft cocktail bars.\n\nContemporary \"Lowbrow\" artists such as Shag, Mark Ryden, and Derek Yaniger use tiki imagery in their paintings.\n\nSeveral books on the subject of tiki have been published, including \"The Book of Tiki\" by Sven Kirsten, published by Taschen.\n\nThe revival also spawned \"Tiki Noir\", a literary subgenre of hard-boiled crime fiction in a tiki setting, in which the main character, often a detective, but not always, is world-weary and deeply flawed; \"Ritual of the Savage\" by Jay Strongman being the prime example.\n\nTiki-themed events and conventions have begun to spring up across America—with the majority happening in Southern California. Large annual events include Tiki Oasis in San Diego; Hukilau in Fort Lauderdale, Tiki Caliente in Palm Springs, and Ohana: Luau at the Lake in Lake George, NY.\n\nA variety of online communities have formed for tikiphiles. The Fraternal Order of Moai is also a tiki-themed social organization in the United States.\n\nThe question of whether tiki bars should be considered a type of cultural appropriation has arisen in recent years.\n\nScholars at the University of Exeter and Claremont Graduate University argue that tiki culture's stylish and seemingly innocuous cultural imagery can obscure and subsume native traditions and divert attention from the history of violent colonialism in the region.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19200875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19200875", "title": "Trialeti Ossetians", "text": "Trialeti Ossetians\n\nThe Ossetians in Trialeti () are a group of ethnic Ossetians, settling the central Georgian districts of Khashuri and Borjomi, historically part of the Trialeti province. The Ossetians resettled there in the 19th century from the territory, which is now known as South Ossetia).\n\nIn 1922, after the conflict between the Georgian government forces and Bolshevik-sympathizing Ossetian rebels, and the forcible Sovietization of Georgia, the recently created South Ossetian Autonomous Oblast within the Georgian SSR claimed the villages, mainly settled by Ossetians in Trialeti as its exclave - to no avail, however.\n\nIn 1989 there were 38,000 Ossetians in the region, living in 134 villages. They had been incorporated into the Georgian society with a high degree of intermarriages with Georgians. During the 1991–1992 South Ossetia War, the area was unaffected by armed confrontation, but many Ossetian families had to flee rising ethnic discord to South Ossetia and Russia's North Ossetia–Alania.\n"}
{"id": "1737566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1737566", "title": "Tzompantli", "text": "Tzompantli\n\nA tzompantli or skull rack is a type of wooden rack or palisade documented in several Mesoamerican civilizations, which was used for the public display of human skulls, typically those of war captives or other sacrificial victims. It is a scaffold-like construction of poles on which heads and skulls were placed after holes had been made in them. Many have been documented throughout Mesoamerica, and range from the Epiclassic (ca. 600–900 CE) through early Post-Classic (ca. 900–1250 CE). In 2017 archeologists announced the discovery of the Huey Tzompantli, with more than 650 skulls, in the archeological zone of the Templo Mayor in Mexico city.\n\nThe name comes from the Classical Nahuatl language of the Aztecs but is also commonly applied to similar structures depicted in other civilizations. Its precise etymology is uncertain although its general interpretation is \"skull rack,\" \"wall of skulls,\" or \"skull banner.\" It's most likely a compound of the Nahuatl words \"tzontecomatl\" (\"skull\"; from \"tzontli\" or \"tzom-\" \"hair\", \"scalp\" and \"tecomatl\" (\"gourd\" or \"container\"), and \"pamitl\" (\"banner\"). That derivation has been ascribed to explain the depictions in several codices that associate these with banners; however, Nahuatl linguist Frances Karttunen has proposed that \"pantli\" means merely \"row\" or \"wall.\"\n\nIt was most commonly erected as a linearly-arranged series of vertical posts connected by a series of horizontal crossbeams. The skulls were pierced or threaded laterally along these horizontal stakes. An alternate arrangement, more common in the Maya regions, was for the skulls to be impaled on top of one another along the vertical posts.\n\n\"Tzompantli\" are known chiefly from their depiction in Late Postclassic (13th to 16th centuries) and post-Conquest (mid-16th to 17th centuries) codices, contemporary accounts of the conquistadores, and several other inscriptions. However, a \"tzompantli\"-like structure, thought to be the first instance of such structures, has been excavated from the Proto-Classic Zapotec civilization at the La Coyotera, Oaxaca site, dated from c. 2nd century BCE to 3rd century CE. The Zapotecs called this structure a \"\"yàgabetoo\",\" and it displayed 61 skulls.\n\n\"Tzompantli\" are also noted in other Mesoamerican pre-Columbian cultures, such as the Toltec and Mixtec.\n\nAt the Toltec capital of Tula exists the first indications in Central Mexico of a real fascination with skulls and skeletons. Tula flourished from the ninth until the thirteenth century. The site includes the decimated remains of a tzompantli. The tzompantli at Tula displayed multiple rows of stone carved skulls adorning the sides of a broad platform upon which the actual skulls of sacrificial victims were exhibited. The tzompantli appeared during the final phases of civilization at Tula, which was destroyed around 1200.\n\nOther examples are indicated from Maya civilization sites such as Uxmal and other Puuc region sites of the Yucatán, dating from around the late 9th-century decline of the Maya Classical Era. A particularly fine and intact inscription example survives at the extensive Chichen Itza site.\nHuman sacrifice on a large scale was introduced to the Maya by the Toltecs from the appearances of the tzompantli by the Chichen Itza ball courts. Six ball court reliefs at Chichen Itza depict the decapitation of a ball player; it seems that the losers would be beheaded and would have their skulls placed on the Tzompantli.\n\nThe word \"tzompantli\" is Nahuatl and was used by the Aztecs to refer to the skull-racks found in many Aztec cities; The first and most prominent example is the Huey Tzompantli (Great Skull-rack) located the Aztec capital of Tenochtitlan and described by the early conquistadors. There were at least five more skull racks in Tenochtitlan but by all accounts they were much smaller. \n\nAccording to Bernal Díaz del Castillo's eye-witness account, the \"Historia verdadera de la conquista de la Nueva España\", written several decades after the event, after Cortes' expedition was forced to make their initial retreat from Tenochtitlan, the Aztecs erected a makeshift tzompantli to display the severed heads of men and horses they had captured from the invaders. This \"tzompantli\" is depicted in the twelfth book of the Florentine Codex. This taunting is also depicted in an Aztec codex which relates the story, and the subsequent battles which led to the eventual capture of the city by the Spanish forces and their allies.\n\nDuring the stay of Cortes' expedition in the Aztec capital Tenochtitlan (initially as guest-captives of the Emperor Moctezuma II, before the battle which would lead to the conquest), they reported a wooden \"tzompantli\" altar adorned with the skulls from recent sacrifices. Within the complex of the Templo Mayor itself, a relief in stucco depicted these sacrifices; the remains of this relief have survived and may now be seen in the ruins in the Zócalo of present-day Mexico City. \n\nExcavations at Templo Mayor in the Aztec capital Tenochtitlan have revealed many skulls belonging to women and children, in addition to those of men, a demonstration of the diversity of the human sacrifices in Aztec culture. After displaying severed heads, many scholars have determined that limbs of Aztec victims would be cannibalized Fray Diego Durán confirms this, stating that skulls were delivered to temples after \"the flesh had been eaten\".\n\nDurán notes that the \"tzompantli\" were periodically renovated. Regarding this, Durán states\"When [the skulls] become old and deteriorated, they fell in pieces. When the palisade become old, however, it was renovated, and on its removal many [skulls] broke. Others were removed to make room for more, so that there would be a place for those were to be killed later\"Archeologist Eduardo Contreras believes that the tissue attached to skulls was removed prior to a \"tzompantli\" pole being inserted through the side of the skulls. He bases these assumptions off of excavations of the Plaza de las Tres Culturas at Tlatelolco, Mexico City between 1960 and 1965. \n\nThe Huey Tzompantli was the central \"tzompantli\" found in Tenochtitlan. The skull rack here served as a reminder of the Aztec's ongoing Flowery Wars. An important aspect of Aztec warfare was the capture of enemy warriors to serve as sacrificial victims, which is evident from the number of warriors found sacrificed around Aztec structures. One conquistador, Andrés de Tapia, was given the task of counting the skulls on the \"tzompantli\" at Tenochtitlan and estimated that there were 136,000 skulls on it. However, based on numbers given by Taipa and Fray Diego Durán, Bernard Ortiz de Montellano has calculated that there were at most 60,000 skulls on the \"Hueyi Tzompantli\" (Great Skullrack) of Tenochtitlan. The \"Hueyi Tzompantli\" consisted of a massive masonry platform composed of “thirty long steps” measuring fully 60 meters in length by 30 meters wide at its summit. Atop of the aforementioned platform was erected an equally formidable wooden palisade and scaffolding consisting of between 60 and 70 massive uprights or timbers woven together with an impressive constellation of horizontal cross beams upon which were suspended the tens of thousands of decapitated human heads once impaled thereon. Regarding, this Bernal Díaz de Castillo states \"I remember that they had in a plaza, where there were some shrines, so many places of dead skulls, which could be counted, according to the concert as they were set, that when they appeared they would be more than one hundred thousand; and I say again about one hundred thousand. And in another part of the square were as many rowers of bones without meat, bones of dead, that could not be counted; and they had in many beams many heads hanging from one part to another. And  keeping those bones and skulls were three priests, who, as we understood, wherein charge of them.  Of which we had to look more after we entered the land well: in all the villages they were that way, and also in Tascala.\"Various scholarly interpretations of the cosmological importance of Huey Tzompantli's placement have emerged. Matos Monteczum claims that a central \"tzompantli\" was placed north of the Templo Mayor. Monteczuma notes that no corresponding shrine was found south. Monteczuma also notes that Mexica views of the universe, which divide the universe into a horizontal and vertical plane, claim that the northern sector of the horizontal plane corresponds to Mictlampa, or the land of the dead. On the other hand, Rubén G. Mendoza contends that the Huey Tzompantli was placed on an east-west axis between the Templo Mayor and a principal ball court. The Huey Tzompantli would have been aligned with the marker within the Templo Mayor dividing one half for Tlaloc and the other half for Huitzilopochtli. Mendoza argues that as the sun traveled through the sky, it would have ascended into the \"vault of the heavens,\" represented by the Huey Tzompantli. \n\nModern archeological evidence has found that this large palisade was flanked by two circular towers made out of skulls and mortar. \n\nThere are numerous depictions of \"tzompantli\" in Aztec codices, dating from around the time or shortly after the Spanish conquest of the Aztec Empire, such as the \"Durán Codex\", \"Ramírez Codex\", and \"Codex Borgia\". The Codex Mendoza contains multiple depictions of \"tzompantli.\" The Frontispiece of the Codex Mendoza depicts a \"tzompantli\" holding single skull next to an eagle perched on a cactus. A similar depiction of a \"tzompantli is\" used to represent the town of Tzompanco in the Codex Mendoza. Folio 45v of the Codex Borgia depicts a platform adorned with skulls. \n\nArchaeologists affilitated with the National Institute of Anthropology and History have partaken in a series of excavations since 2015 that have resulted in the finding of \"tzompantli.\" These excavations took place near the Mexico City Metropolitan Cathedral and resulted in the finding of one \"tzompantli\" tower. These excavations have revealed that women and children were sacrificed, despite men making up 75% of sacrificial victims. \n\nApart from their use to display the skulls of ritualistically-executed war captives, \"tzompantli\" often occur in the contexts of Mesoamerican ball courts, which were widespread throughout the region's civilizations and sites. The game was 'played for keeps' ending with the losing team being sacrificed. The captain of the winning team was tasked with taking the head of the losing team's captain to be displayed on a tzompantli. In these contexts it appears that the tzompantli was used to display the losers' heads of this often highly ritualised game. Not all games resulted in this outcome, however, and for those that did it is surmised that these participants were often notable captives. An alternative theory is that it was the captain of the winning team who lost his head, but there is little evidence that this was the case. Still, it is acknowledged that in Mesoamerican culture to be sacrificed was to be honored with feeding the gods.\nTula, the former Toltec capital, has a well-preserved \"tzompantli\" inscription on its ball court.\n\nThe association with ball courts is also reflected in the \"Popol Vuh\", the famous religious, mythological and cultural account of the K'iche' Maya. When Hun Hunahpu, father of the Maya Hero Twins, was killed by the lords of the Underworld (Xibalba), his head was hung in a gourd tree next to a ball court. The gourd tree is a clear representation of a \"tzompantli\", and the image of skulls in trees as if they were fruits is also a common indicator of a tzompantli and the associations with some of the game's metaphorical interpretations.\n\n\"Tzompantli\" have been the subject of multiple artworks made by during the twentieth century. Jose Chavez Morado depicted \"tzompantli\" in a 1961 painting. George O. Jackson, as part of his Essence of Mexico project, photographed various representations of skulls, which he refers to as \"calaveras.\" Jackson refers to groups of these pictures as \"tzompantli.\" \"Tzompantli\" were also the subject of murals created for the festival Mextonia, which celebrates Mexican culture and occurs in Estonia, by the art collective Nueve Arte Urbano. The Museo de Arte de Querétaro featured an exhibit titled \"Tzompantli,\" which featured works made by various artists depicting skulls. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "37853969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37853969", "title": "University Club of San Francisco", "text": "University Club of San Francisco\n\nThe University Club of San Francisco is a private social club located atop Nob Hill in San Francisco, California. Notable members have included President Herbert Hoover and conservationist John Muir.\n\nThe University Club of San Francisco was founded in 1890 by William Thomas, an alumnus of Harvard University (class of 1873) and the President of the Harvard Club of San Francisco. Thomas wished to have a club that would accept alumni of more universities than just Harvard, including other Ivy League schools and West Coast schools like Stanford University and the University of California, Berkeley.\n\nIts first clubhouse was located in a two-story Victorian manse at 722 Sutter Street near Taylor Street, in the Union Square district and just around the corner from the Bohemian Club and the Olympic Club. Like most clubs of its time, membership was limited to men, and any proposed member had to have completed at least two years at university, which was somewhat uncommon at the time. The facility included a private dining room, a forum for after-dinner speakers, and guestrooms.\n\nThe Club quickly outgrew the Sutter Street building and, in 1903, Club President William Bowers Bourn II hired architect Willis Polk to design a new clubhouse at the corner of Sutter and Van Ness Streets. Before the plans could be developed or the site purchased, however, the Sutter Street clubhouse was destroyed by fire in the 1906 San Francisco earthquake. For the next two years, the Club rented and occupied temporary locations.\n\nIn 1908, the Club purchased a lot atop Nob Hill at what is now 800 Powell Street, on the northeast corner of California Street, across from the Fairmont Hotel at the intersection of the two lines of the San Francisco cable car system. It previously had been the location of the mansion of Leland Stanford, which also had been destroyed in the earthquake. There, the Club built a new four-story brick Italianate-style clubhouse, designed by the local firm of Bliss & Faville, who also designed the Westin St. Francis Hotel, the Southern Pacific Building, and portions of the 1915 Panama–Pacific International Exposition. The new clubhouse devoted the second floor, and part of the first, to guestrooms. The third floor contained a restaurant and bar, and the fourth floor contained a bar, library and other rooms. The Club also obtained the site of Stanford's former stables, situated just east of the Clubhouse. There, in the early 1970s, it constructed its athletic facilities, including singles and doubles squash courts.\n\nIn 1988, under pressure from anti-discrimination lawsuits and judicial trends, the University Club agreed to accept women as members.\n\nMembership in the University Club is extended by invitation only, and is limited by its by-laws to no more than 400 members. The Club has reciprocal membership privileges with over 400 clubs worldwide. The Club is listed by the Complex (magazine) as one of the \"10 Exclusive Places In San Francisco You'll Never Get Into\", as its \"Membership at the \"venue for the city's cultural and intellectual life and a worldwide center for the sport of squash is by invitation only and maxes out at 400 people, so if you didn't attend one of our country's prestigious schools, or if you don't know anyone who's a member, leave your racquet at home\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16089655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16089655", "title": "Women in Algeria", "text": "Women in Algeria\n\nDuring the 1962 Algerian War of Independence, Algerian women fought as equals alongside men. They thus achieved a new sense of their own identity and a measure of acceptance from men. In the aftermath of the war, women maintained their new-found emancipation and became more involved in the development of the new state. Among the countries of the region, Algeria is regarded as a relatively liberal nation and the status of women reflects this. However, while the constitution guarantees equality between genders, family law discriminates against women. Women can vote and run for political positions.\n\nAlgeria is a country in North Africa on the Mediterranean coast. After a prolonged rule by France, Algeria obtained independence from France in 1962. The Algerian Civil War (1991-2002) had a negative influence on women's wellbeing. 99% of the population is Arab-Berber, and a similar percentage is Muslim, predominantly Sunni. In Algeria, as in the rest of the Middle East, women are traditionally regarded as weaker than men and expected to be subordinate to men. Algeria also has a strong culture of family honor, which is connected to women's modesty.\n\nThe legal age for marriage is eighteen for women, twenty-one for men. Many Algerian women are getting married and starting families at much older ages than they did under French Rule. Education, work commitment, and changing social attitudes are the reasons for the change.\n\nIn 2010, the total fertility rate was 1.76 children born/woman. This is a drop from 2.41 in 2009 and 7.12 in the 1970s just after the Algerian War of Independence from France.\n\nFrench colonizers opposed veiling because of their secular sovereign constitution and the concept of Laicite. The French secular constitution is based in the Declaration of the Rights of the Man and of the Citizen of 1789, however, which intentionally confers rights in men and denies them to women.\n\nAlgerians clung to Islamic veiling under French rule, and after independence actually increased its use.\n\nPrior to the country's Independence, very few native Algerian women could read and write. This was the result of a French-imposed ban on Islamic education for the entire native Algerian population. Which also led to the shut down of many schools, until there were barely enough schools to fit the needs of the country. The remnants of this policy still manifests today in the significantly low literacy rate found in women over the age of 40.\n\nThe literacy rate of women is still lower than that of men (it is female: 73.1% and male: 87.2%\nas of 2015 estimates, population 15 years and older).\n\nPost-Independence, North African and Algerian women enjoy many more human rights than their counterparts in neighboring and other African countries. Algerian women can inherit property, obtain a divorce, retain custody of their children, gain an education and work in many sectors of society. Women make up 70 percent of Algeria’s lawyers and 60 percent of its judges. They also dominate the fields of medicine, healthcare and science. Increasingly, women contribute more to household income than men. As of 2007, sixty-five percent of university students are women, with more than 80% joining the workforce after graduation. They are encouraged by family members to become educated and contribute to Algerian society. Algerian women are among the first in North Africa to become taxi and bus drivers. Their numbers are also increasing in the police force and security positions.\n\nWomen fulfilled a number of different functions during the Algerian War. The majority of Muslim women who became active participants did so on the side of the National Liberation Front (FLN). The French included some women, both Muslim and French, in their war effort, but they were not as fully integrated, nor were they charged with the same breadth of tasks as their Algerian sisters. The total number of women involved in the conflict, as determined by post-war veteran registration, is numbered at 11,000, but it is possible that this number was significantly higher due to underreporting.\n\nThere exists a distinction between two different types of women who became involved, urban and rural. Urban women, who constituted about twenty percent of the overall force, had received some kind of education and usually chose to enter on the side of the FLN of their own accord. Largely illiterate rural women, on the other hand, the remaining eighty percent, due to their geographic location in respect to the operations of FLN often became involved in the conflict as a result of proximity paired with force.\n\nWomen operated in a number of different areas during the course of the rebellion. \"Women participated actively as combatants, spies, fundraisers, as well as nurses, launderers, and cooks\", \"women assisted the male fighting forces in areas like transportation, communication and administration\", the range of involvement by a woman could include both combatant and non-combatant roles. While the majority of the tasks that women undertook centered on the realm of the non-combatant, those that surrounded the limited number that took part in acts of violence were more frequently noticed. The reality was that \"rural women in maquis [rural areas] support networks\" contained the overwhelming majority of those who participated. This is not to marginalize those women who did engage in acts of violence but simply to illustrate that they constituted in the minority.\nEducation for both girls and boys are equal (93% and 95% respectively). Although Algerian women account for 53% enrolled in universities, they tend to be more focused on \"traditional women careers\" such as education and nursing. Algerian women are allowed to pick whatever career they choose to be in, but social/cultural norms and their husbands are the main obstacles in their way. The literacy rate for males are a little higher than female youth (94% and 89%). Overall, the education system is comparably equal, but the problem is if these women break traditional \"gender based career roles\", there would not be a lot of option for them to be hired.\n\nPrior to the war of independence, women were in general excluded from the political life. After independence in 1962, where women played an active role, they were badly represented in the building of the new state. During the first National Assembly, there were only 10 women out of the 194 members that were present. These women had all taken part in the war for independence. In the second meeting of the National Assembly, 2 out of 138 members were women. \n\nThe uprising that took place in October 1988 brought in a new a new constitution introducing a multi-party system. This led to the creation of many associations, among them associations for feminists and women in general. These associations made women more visible on the public arena. The four most visible and important among these associations were “equal rights for men and women”; “the triumph of women’s rights”; “the defence and promotion of women” and “the emancipation of women”.\n\nFrom 1981 to 1991, women were proportionally represented in the small and marginal parties of the extreme left side. The Workers Party (PT) was led by a woman: Louisa Hanoune. Both the parties at the left wing and FLN represented women candidates at elections. The religious Islamist parties did not represent women candidates at elections, but women were allowed to be members.\n\nToday, women are represented, although still not proportionally to men, in both parliament and in ministerial positions. In 2012, Algerian women occupied 31 percent of parliamentary seats, placing the country 26th worldwide and 1st in the Arab world.. In 2012 political reforms were established, with the support of the United Nations Development Program, to provide a legal framework that granted women 30 percent representation in elected assemblies. On the local level, the rate is only 18 percent, due to the fact that it is difficult to find women willing to appear on ballots in the communes. \n\nFollowing President Bouteflika’s re-election in 2014, seven women were appointed as ministers in his cabinet. This adds up to 20 percent of all the ministerial positions. The women occupying the seven new ministerial posts are: Minister of Education Nouria Benghebrit; Minister of Land-Use Planning and Environment Dalila Boudjemaa; Minister of Culture Nadia Labidi; Minister of Family and Women Mounia Meslem; Minister of Post, Information Technology and Communication Zahra Dardouri; Minister of Tourism Nouria Yamina Zerhouni and Delegate Minister of Handicrafts Aish Tabagho . There has until this day not been a female head of state. Louisa Hanoune became the first women in both Algeria and the Arab world to run for office in 2004. \n\nWhen it comes to owning land, women are at a major disadvantage. Their access to owning land is limited by the traditional laws of Algeria. Even through Algerian women by law have the right to access bank loans and are free to negotiate financial or business contracts, these actions are usually restricted by their husbands. Women in the workforce accounted for 37% versus men who accounted for 80%. The youth unemployment rate for males (43%) was slight lower than it was for females (46%). 60% of Algerian women are employed, but only half are on a salaried status. Basically speaking, the majority of women do not benefit from their employ ability status. Most Algerian women are employed by public administration and they occupy a lot of the teaching professions and \"traditional\" women careers in Algeria. \"One exception is the medical profession; more than half of Algeria's doctors are women.\" In the year 2002, the National Committee of Working Women provided a center to help victims of sexual harassment in the workplace. In addition, there has been activists who have been campaigning for there to be a law to protect women from sexual harassment in the workplace.\n\nIn regards to reproductive services, 96 percent of births were attended by a skilled health staff in 2002. Maternal mortality is still an issue somewhat in Algeria with some differences in different areas of the region. According to the Ministry of Health and Population, maternal mortality rates were cut in half in ten years. The maternal mortality ration in 2010 was 1 in 430 women. In 2011, Algerian women's use of sanitation facilities were at 95.1%. From the years 2008 to 2011, the number of females who had a comprehensive knowledge about HIV/AIDS at the ages of 15 to 24 years were 13.1%. 68% of women who were between the ages of 15 – 49 years thought that violence by their spouse was acceptable with in some certain situations. However, the people seemed that they did not believe in child marriage and only had 4 total in that year. Mothers seeking immunization for newborns and children ranged between 90% to 99% in the year 2012.\n\nWhen it comes to legal protections for women in Algeria, the current protections in place are general/vague and insufficient. Women activists have had success bringing awareness to change the original family code to a more modernized equivalent benefiting and protecting women. The Family Code of 1984 is based on conservative religious principles. While the law was modified by Ordinance No. 05-02 of 27 February 2005, it still maintains many discriminatory provisions.\n\n\n\n (Data as of 1993.)\n"}
{"id": "33213836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33213836", "title": "Yom language", "text": "Yom language\n\nYom, or Pilapila, and formerly \"Kiliŋa\" or \"Kilir\", is a Gur language of Benin. It is spoken in the town of Djougou and the surrounding area. A very closely related dialect called \"taŋgələm\" is also spoken by the Taneka people.\n\nWhere it differs from the IPA symbol, the conventional orthography is given below the phoneme.\n\nIn Yom orthography, long vowels are written as double vowels, e.g. for .\n\nGenerally, /l/ is realised by [ɾ] in medial and final position. For some speakers, the two allophones are in free variation.\nNouns are divided into genders or noun classes which can be distinguished by the pronoun used to refer to them and by their suffix, which generally bears some resemblance to the pronoun. If the noun is modified by adjectives, then the suffix appears on the adjectives and not on the noun. The table gives the singular and plural forms of the pronouns used to refer to a noun of each gender. There are also some nouns which have the pronoun \"də\" or \"bə\" without having a plural form.\nYom is predominantly an SVO language, although SOV word order is also possible. Genitives precede nouns and relative clauses follow. Adjectives, numerals and demonstratives follow the noun in that order and agree with it in number and gender. Many different constituents can preposed to the beginning of the sentence using a focus construction - for example:\n"}
{"id": "1530039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1530039", "title": "Zamalek SC", "text": "Zamalek SC\n\nZamalek Sporting Club () is an Egyptian sports club based in Giza, Egypt. They are best known for their professional football team, which plays in the Egyptian Premier League, the top tier of the Egyptian football league system. The club was founded on 5 January 1911 as Qasr Al Neel Club and was first headed by Belgian lawyer George Marzbach. The name was changed to \"Al Mokhtalat Club\" in 1913 and in 1941 it was changed again to \"King Farouk Club\", named after King Farouk. The name finally settled as \"Zamalek SC\" after the 1952 Egyptian revolution. Zamalek Sporting Club has many sports. Zamalek has won many Olympic and non-Olympic sports alongside football, such as handball, athletics, volleyball and basketball. They have won many local, Arab and African tournaments, participated in world championships and achieved advanced positions.\n\nZamalek has never been relegated to the Second Division. On the continental side, Zamalek has won more CAF trophies than any other African team in the Twentieth century. The club has 5 CAF Champions League titles, 3 CAF Super Cup titles and 1 African Cup Winners' Cup title. Internationally, Zamalek has also won 2 Afro-Asian Cup titles.\n\nThe club started out as football Club by a Belgian lawyer, Mr. Merzbach on 5 January 1911. It was the first football club in Cairo emerged from its non-English expatriate communities. They formed sports and social clubs each with its own identity. A very important aspect of Zamalek was that it was a club for all people and not for any specific social, economical, or ethnic status. Zamalek started out and continued through World War I under the presidency of Merzbach, and its Belgian secretaries (first Shoduan, then Bochu). The next president was Nicola Arfagi who also played left wing for the club's football team.\n\nFollowing the 1919 revolution, the club became Egyptian controlled in 1923 under the presidency of General Haidar Pasha and secretary Youssef Mohamad. In the winter of 1924, the club moved for the third time to what is now known as El Balloon Theater. Then in 1940, the club was renamed Farouk El Awal Club after being honored by its acknowledgement from the King of Egypt and Sudan, King Farouk. Following the army coup against the King in 1952, the club was renamed \"Al Zamalek\" after the area where the club was situated. The club then moved yet again for the fourth time in its history to its final destination on 26 July Street, just 500 meters west of the Zamalek bridge, occupying an area of 35 acres (140,000 m2) and hosting 24 different sports.\n\nIn 1917, Egyptian members attempted to form a first Egyptian board for the club, but this was blocked by the President of the club, a Frenchman called M. Piankie and the secretary M. Shoudoi who was Belgian, and as a result, no general members meetings were held for the next few years. The Egyptian members realized that it was important to increase the number of Egyptian members to gain a majority at the next general members meeting. As a result, the elections were held and the first Egyptian board was elected with Dr. Mohammad Badr as President, Mostafa Hassan as Deputy President, Ibrahim Allam as General Secretary, and Nicola Arkaji, Mahmoud Bassyouni, Hussein Fawzy and Abdo El Jabalawy as board members.\n\nAfter the first board, a new board in 1923 was formed with General Mohammad Haidar as a president. At the beginning of 1941, General Haidar was selected from the assistants of the king. Due to being the favorites of the king, the club's name was changed from AL Moukhtalat to Farouk Al Awal and General Mohammad Haidar stayed as a president at the club for almost thirty years which was unusual at an Egyptian club at the time. ** The biggest victory in the history of the summit [derby] meetings with al ahly and was the biggest result of 6–0 for Zamalek in 1942, 1944 [3] and has not been broken so far since about 75 years.\n\nThen in 1952, the Egyptian army revolution came and a new club's board was formed with Dr. Mohammad Shawky as a president who was also the secretary. He is thwarts team in the world 11 leagues only general of the legislation office with high social status right then. In the same board, there was Mohammad Hassan Helmy who is one of the most popular Zamalek figures taking the position of the secretary assistant. Due to the rules right then, half the club board was changed every year and Mohammad Hassan Helmy took the position of secretary general.\n\nIn 1954, the idea of renovating the club stadium was emerging due to the bad state of the current stadium right then. This led the board to look for a businessman to take over the club and thus help in the stadium renovation. Abd El Hamid El Shawarbi took the presidency and, although, he was elected for a second period, he was not able to do the job he wanted. Right then, some Zamalek Faithful figures as General Haidar Pasha, and Haj Sayed El Annany contributed to setting the VIP stand and the first class stand in a way that suits the high status of the club. All of this happened while Abd El Hamid El Shawarbi was outside Egypt, so when he came back. he resigned without helping the club in any aspect and the board continued after Shawky stepped up from his Deputy position (after he left the presidency kindheartedly) to continue till September 1955. Still the idea of bringing a businessman to help the club did not subside, and thus, the famous businessman Abd El Latif Abo Regeila came as the club president in 1956 where by then, the rules have been changed allowing the board to stay for 3 years. And once again, Dr. Shawky steps down for the new businessman; although, he was reelected as a club president and all for the sake of the club's prosperity. Although Abd El Latif Abo Regeila was reelected for a second presidency period, he had to leave Egypt after he lost his money due to the governmental policy against private property (Bus Company and a mansion at Marg which was the hiding place for many players during the season of resignations). But still the club continued to search for another businessman, and Alwe El Gazzar came as a president who was the owner of El Sheikh Sherieb Company and also the president of the board of the Coca-Cola Company right then. Although he was only president for a short period, he was able to bring Real Madrid at his own expense in 1961 to play against Zamalek. But still, he lost his property due to governmental rules and he left Egypt. In 1962, came a new board with Eng. Hassan Amer as a president and emeritus deputy was given to Dr. Mohammad Shawky, Mohammad Lateef, Galal Kereitam, Mahmoud Emam, and Mahmoud Hafez. Eng. Hassan Amer stayed as president till the defeat of Egyptian army in 1967. In 1967, the minister of youth and sports Talat Khairy decided that the club boards will be appointed rather than elected and hence Mohammad Hassan Helmy took the presidency to become the first sportsman in Egypt to become a president of a club. He stayed in presidency till July 1971 where the rules came back to let the board come from elections and not to let anyone to become a president if this person hold presidency for two consecutive boards. Thus came Tawfeek El Kheshen who took the presidency of the board and the honorary presidency was given to Mohammad Hassan Helmy. In 1973, Mohammad Hassan Helmy was elected to become the president and stayed as the head of the board till 1984 and during this period he was continually elected as the president of one of Egypt's biggest clubs. Then in 1984 came the\". Eng. Hassan Amer and after him came the Eng. Hasan Abo el Fetouh in 1988. During his period, came a new rule by the ministry of youth increasing the number of elected board members to ten which was removed again in 1990. Eng. Hasan Abo el Fetouh helped in building many of the new building the club is proud of as the gymnasium building which is considered one of the biggest in the Middle East. He also increased the funding for most of the sports teams in the club assisting the winning of many championships during his era.\n\nIn 1990, came Galal Ibrhim became the president of the club due to the death of Eng. Hasan Abo el Fetouh. This temporary board was held till September 1990 when the general club meeting was held with the elections of which Eng. \"Mohamad Nour El Daly\" became the president of the new board till 1992. In 1992, Galal Ibrhim came as the new president of the club. As the rules were changed right then and the vice treasurer was to be selected mostly by the board members, and then Hamada emam was selected by default to that position while Abdel Hamid Shaheen was elected to the treasurer position. As for the board members, it consisted of: Dr. Ahmed Shereen Fawzy, Mahmoud Marouf, Mohamad Fayez El Zummur, Raouf Gaser, and Tarek Ghonaim. As per the rules, it was also new to have two members of the board under the age of 30. For these two spots, Samy Abo El Kheir and Ihab Ibrahim were elected. As for the appointed members by the high committee for youth and sports, Dr. Mohamad Amer, General Hanafy Reyad, and Farouk Abo El Nasr were added to the board. By 1994, Abdel Hamid Shaheen was not able to continue his duties due to his sickness, but the board chose to keep him in the position in honor of his devotion to the club, and thus Farouk Abo El Nasr was appointed to take the duties while keeping Abdel Hamid Shaheen in the position. In 1995, changes came to the board due to the court removal of four members in the board due to their absence from the board meetings for 6 times. These members were Mahmoud Marouf, Mohamad Fayez El Zummur, Dr. Mohamad Amer. The newly appointed members were Mortada Mansour, Mahmoud Abdallah, Mounnir Hassan, and Ibrahim Latif. Still the high committee for youth and sports objected on linking the appointed members with the elected ones and as a result Mounnir Hassan, and Ibrahim Latif forfeited their positions for the better good of the club and to remove any embarrassment happening to the board. And as a surprise, the newly two appointed members for the club board were Dr. Mohamad Amer and Farouk Abo El Nasr in support of their abilities and their dedication. As a result, Dr. Shereen Fawzy was selected to be treasurer till the new elections. On Thursday 4 July, came the decision by Dr. Abd El Menem Emarah to release the club board and the Egyptian Football Federation board after the sad incidence in the game between Ahly and Zamalek season 95/96, as the board decided to freeze the football activity in the club. Meanwhile, the EFF made a series of wrong decisions which caused it to be released too. As a result, a one-year temporary club board was selected of which Dr. Kamal Darweesh was the president and General Abd EL Aziz Kabil was vice president with the board members consisting of General Hanafy Reyad, Magdy Sharaf, Ismail Selim\", Azmy megahed, and \"Mohamad Abd El Rahman Fawzy. Also, accountant Mahmoud Badr El Deen was appointed as treasurer. Zamalek was named the best club in the world by the IFFHS in February 2003. It was also the first Egyptian team to qualify for the 2001 FIFA Club World Cup in Spain, which was not due to funding problems.\n\nThe year 1974 saw a deadly crush at a Zamalek game, as at least forty-eight people attending the friendly game against Czechoslovak club Dukla Prague were killed in a stampede at the Helmy Zamora Stadium.\n\nThe second disaster was in 2015, 8 February, twenty supporters were killed by policemen outside the stadium of 30 June Stadium.\n\n\nThe home jersey uses the original Zamalek colours: White jersey with two horizontal or vertical red stripes and White shorts. The away jersey is blue. Zamalek chose white because it symbolises peace and red colour because it is symbolised for fighting for win.\n\nThe word Zamalek Turkish origin known to the Egyptians for the first time when Mohammed Ali its ruler in the first half of the nineteenth century to establish camps for the leaders of the army in that island, which lies in the lap of the River Nile and the middle of Cairo and be close to the Navy .. The vernacular of your fellowship to Zamalek.\n\nThe Zamalek Club logo is a Pharaonic archer, aiming for a goal. This slogan is meant to express the Egyptian affiliation and pride for their culture and heritage. It also indicates that the club's goal is always to win.\n\nThe club has no home ground. Their old stadium, Helmi Zamora Stadium, is not suitable for hosting the first team's official matches due to its limited capacity, its central downtown location, the fact that it has not been seriously renovated since its inauguration more than 50 years ago and the terrace is threatened to fall. Zamalek train in Helmi Zamora until today. Consequently, Zamalek play their home matches at Cairo International Stadium.\n\nZamalek has an ultras named Ultras White Knights (UWK)[that was founded on 17 March 2007 which is known for its pyro displays. Their motto is \"Brotherhood in blood and fans of the free public\". In clashes on February 8, 2015 before the league match between Zamalek and ENPI Club at the Cairo Air Defense Stadium, 20 people were killed\nThe administration of the club adopted the \"Real Club of 20th Century\" as an official club's nickname. It was based on the fact that the football team achieved the greatest number of African titles during the 20th century, in addition to being the only club to have won the CAF Champions League four times against three of its closest rivals.\n\nThe various administrations have objected to the classification method followed by CAF, where did not take into consideration the differences between the three African tournaments, nor did adopt any points for the Afro-Asian Club Championship, although recognized it as an official title later.\n\n 72\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nLeague\n\nThe following players have won the top scorer award in the league while playing with Zamalek:\nCup\n\nNote: this list includes players that have appeared in at least 100 league games and/or have reached international status.\n\n\"see also List of Zamalek SC players\"\n\nSee More: List of Zamalek SC managers\n\n(MY) appointed by the Ministry of Youth.<br>\n(D) return due court decision.<br>\n(NCS) appointed by the National Council for Sports.<br>\n(MS) appointed by the Ministry of Sports.\n\n\n"}
