{"id": "49856", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49856", "title": "Abbasid Caliphate", "text": "Abbasid Caliphate\n\nThe Abbasid Caliphate ( or , \"\") was the third of the Islamic caliphates to succeed the Islamic prophet Muhammad. It was founded by a dynasty descended from Muhammad's uncle, Abbas ibn Abdul-Muttalib (566–653 CE), from whom the dynasty takes its name. They ruled as caliphs for most of the caliphate from their capital in Baghdad in modern-day Iraq, after having overthrown the Umayyad Caliphate in the Abbasid Revolution of 750 CE (132 AH).\n\nThe Abbasid Caliphate first centred its government in Kufa, modern-day Iraq, but in 762 the caliph Al-Mansur founded the city of Baghdad, near the ancient Sasanian capital city of Ctesiphon. The Abbasid period was marked by reliance on Persian bureaucrats (notably the Barmakid family) for governing the territories as well as an increasing inclusion of non-Arab Muslims in the \"ummah\" (national community). Persianate customs were broadly adopted by the ruling elite, and they began patronage of artists and scholars. Baghdad became a centre of science, culture, philosophy and invention in what became known as the Golden Age of Islam.\n\nDespite this initial cooperation, the Abbasids of the late 8th century had alienated both non-Arab \"mawali\" (clients) and Iranian bureaucrats. They were forced to cede authority over Al-Andalus and the Maghreb to the Umayyads in 756, Morocco to the Idrisid dynasty in 788, Ifriqiya to the Aghlabids in 800 and Egypt to the Isma'ili-Shia caliphate of the Fatimids in 969. \n\nThe political power of the caliphs largely ended with the rise of the Iranian Buyids and the Seljuq Turks, which each captured Baghdad in 945 and 1055 respectively. Although Abbasid leadership over the vast Islamic empire was gradually reduced to a ceremonial religious function, the dynasty retained control over its Mesopotamian domain. The Abbasids' period of cultural fruition ended in 1258 with the sack of Baghdad by the Mongols under Hulagu Khan. The Abbasid line of rulers, and Muslim culture in general, re-centred themselves in the Mamluk capital of Cairo in 1261. Though lacking in political power, the dynasty continued to claim religious authority until after the Ottoman conquest of Egypt in 1517.\n\nThe Abbasid caliphs were Arabs descended from Abbas ibn Abd al-Muttalib, one of the youngest uncles of Muhammad and of the same Banu Hashim clan. The Abbasids claimed to be the true successors of Prophet Muhammad in replacing the Umayyad descendants of Banu Umayya by virtue of their closer bloodline to Muhammad.\n\nThe Abbasids also distinguished themselves from the Umayyads by attacking their moral character and administration in general. According to Ira Lapidus, \"The Abbasid revolt was supported largely by Arabs, mainly the aggrieved settlers of Merv with the addition of the Yemeni faction and their Mawali\". The Abbasids also appealed to non-Arab Muslims, known as \"mawali\", who remained outside the kinship-based society of the Arabs and were perceived as a lower class within the Umayyad empire. Muhammad ibn 'Ali, a great-grandson of Abbas, began to campaign in Persia for the return of power to the family of Prophet Muhammad, the Hashimites, during the reign of Umar II.\n\nDuring the reign of Marwan II, this opposition culminated in the rebellion of Ibrahim the Imam, the fourth in descent from Abbas. Supported by the province of Khorasan (Eastern Persia), even though the governor opposed them, and the Shia Arabs, he achieved considerable success, but was captured in the year 747 and died, possibly assassinated, in prison.\n\nOn 9 June 747 (15 Ramadan AH 129), Abu Muslim, rising from Khorasan, successfully initiated an open revolt against Umayyad rule, which was carried out under the sign of the Black Standard. Close to 10,000 soldiers were under Abu Muslim's command when the hostilities officially began in Merv. General Qahtaba followed the fleeing governor Nasr ibn Sayyar west defeating the Umayyads at the Battle of Gorgan, the Battle of Nahāvand and finally in the Battle of Karbala, all in the year 748.\n\nThe quarrel was taken up by Ibrahim's brother Abdallah, known by the name of Abu al-'Abbas as-Saffah, who defeated the Umayyads in 750 in the battle near the Great Zab and was subsequently proclaimed caliph. After this loss, Marwan fled to Egypt, where he was subsequently assassinated. The remainder of his family, barring one male, were also eliminated.\n\nImmediately after their victory, As-Saffah sent his forces to Central Asia, where his forces fought against Tang expansion during the Battle of Talas. The noble Iranian family Barmakids, who were instrumental in building Baghdad, introduced the world's first recorded paper mill in the city, thus beginning a new era of intellectual rebirth in the Abbasid domain. As-Saffah focused on putting down numerous rebellions in Syria and Mesopotamia. The Byzantines conducted raids during these early distractions.\n\nThe first change the Abbasids, under Al-Mansur, made was to move the empire's capital from Damascus, in Syria, to Baghdad in Iraq. This was to both appease as well to be closer to the Persian \"mawali\" support base that existed in this region more influenced by Persian history and culture, and part of the Persian mawali demand for less Arab dominance in the empire. Baghdad was established on the Tigris River in 762. A new position, that of the vizier, was also established to delegate central authority, and even greater authority was delegated to local emirs.\n\nThis eventually meant that many Abbasid caliphs were relegated to a more ceremonial role than under the Umayyads, as the viziers began to exert greater influence, and the role of the old Arab aristocracy was slowly replaced by a Persian bureaucracy. During Al-Mansur's time control of Al-Andalus was lost, and the Shia revolted and were defeated a year later at the Battle of Bakhamra.\n\nThe Abbasids had depended heavily on the support of Persians in their overthrow of the Umayyads. Abu al-'Abbas' successor, Al-Mansur welcomed non-Arab Muslims to his court. While this helped integrate Arab and Persian cultures, it alienated many of their Arab supporters, particularly the Khorasanian Arabs who had supported them in their battles against the Umayyads.\n\nThese fissures in their support led to immediate problems. The Umayyads, while out of power, were not destroyed. The only surviving member of the Umayyad royal family, which had been all but annihilated, ultimately made his way to Spain where he established himself as an independent Emir (Abd ar-Rahman I, 756). In 929, Abd ar-Rahman III assumed the title of Caliph, establishing Al Andalus from Córdoba as a rival to Baghdad as the legitimate capital of the Islamic Empire.\n\nIn 756, the Abbasid Caliph Al-Mansur sent over 4,000 Arab mercenaries to assist the Chinese Tang dynasty in the An Shi Rebellion against An Lushan. The Abbasides or \"Black Flags,\" as they were commonly called, were known in Tang dynasty chronicles as the \"hēiyī Dàshí\", \"The Black-robed Tazi\", () (\"Tazi\" being a borrowing from Persian \"Tāzī\", the word for \"Arab\"). Al-Rashid sent embassies to the Chinese Tang dynasty and established good relations with them. After the war, these embassies remained in China with Caliph Harun al-Rashid establishing an alliance with China. Several embassies from the Abbasid Caliphs to the Chinese court have been recorded in the T'ang Annals, the most important of these being those of Abul Abbas al-Saffah, the first Abbasid caliph, his successor Abu Jafar, and Harun al-Rashid.\n\nThe Abbasid leadership had to work hard in the last half of the 8th century (750–800), under several competent caliphs and their viziers to overcome the political challenges created by the far flung nature of the empire, and the limited communication across it and usher in the administrative changes needed to keep order. It was also during this early period of the dynasty, in particular during the governance of al-Mansur, Harun al-Rashid, and al-Ma'mun, that the reputation and power of the dynasty was created.\n\nAl-Mahdi restarted the fighting with the Byzantines and his sons continued the conflict until Empress Irene pushed for peace. After several years of peace, Nikephoros I broke the treaty, then fended off multiple incursions during the first decade of the 9th century. These attacks pushed into the Taurus Mountains culminating with a victory at the Battle of Krasos and the massive invasion of 806, led by Rashid himself.\n\nRashid's navy also proved successful as he took Cyprus. Eventually, the momentum turned and much of the land gained was lost. Rashid decided to focus on the rebellion of Rafi ibn al-Layth in Khorasan and died while there. While the Byzantine Empire was fighting Abbasid rule in Syria and Anatolia, military operations during this period were minimal, as the caliphate focused on internal matters, its governors exerting greater autonomy and using their increasing power to make their positions hereditary.\n\nAt the same time, the Abbasids faced challenges closer to home. Harun al-Rashid turned on the Barmakids, a Persian family that had grown significantly in power within the administration of the state and killed most of the family. During the same period, several factions began either to leave the empire for other lands or to take control of distant parts of the empire away from the Abbasids. The reign of al-Rashid and his sons were considered to be the apex of the Abbasids.\nAfter Rashid's death, the empire was split by a civil war between the caliph al-Amin and his brother al-Ma'mun who had the support of Khorasan. This war ended with a two-year siege of Baghdad and the eventual death of al-Amin in 813. Al-Ma'mun ruled for 20 years of relative calm interspersed with a rebellion supported by the Byzantines in Azerbaijan by the Khurramites. Al-Ma'mun was also responsible for the creation of an autonomous Khorasan, and the continued repulsing of Byzantine forays.\n\nAl-Mu'tasim gained power in 833 and his rule marked the end of the strong caliphs. He strengthened his personal army with Turkish mercenaries and promptly restarted the war with the Byzantines. His military excursions were generally successful culminating with a resounding victory in the Sack of Amorium. His attempt at seizing Constantinople failed when his fleet was destroyed by a storm. The Byzantines restarted the fighting by sacking Damietta in Egypt. Al-Mutawakkil responded by sending his troops into Anatolia again, sacking and marauding until they were eventually annihilated in 863.\n\nEven by 820, the Samanids had begun the process of exercising independent authority in Transoxiana and Greater Khorasan, as had the Twelver-Shia Hamdanids in Northern Syria, and the succeeding Tahirid and Saffarid dynasties of Iran. The Saffarids, from Khorasan, nearly seized Baghdad in 876, and the Tulunids took control of most of Syria. The trend of weakening of the central power and strengthening of the minor caliphates on the periphery continued.\n\nAn exception was the 10-year period of Al-Mu'tadid's rule. He brought parts of Egypt, Syria, and Khorasan back into the Abbasid's control. Especially after the \"Anarchy at Samarra\", the Abbasid central government was weakened and centrifugal tendencies became more prominent in the Caliphate's provinces. By the early 10th century, the Abbasids almost lost control of Iraq to various amirs, and the caliph al-Radi was forced to acknowledge their power by creating the position of \"Prince of Princes\" (\"amir al-umara\").\n\nAl-Mustakfi had a short reign from 944–946, and it was during this period that the Persian faction known as the Buyids from Daylam swept into power and assumed control over the bureaucracy in Baghdad. According to the history of Miskawayh, they began distributing iqtas (fiefs in the form of tax farms) to their supporters. This period of localized secular control was to last nearly 100 years. The loss of Abbasid power to the Buyids would shift as the Seljuks would take over from the Persians.\n\nAt the end of the eighth century the Abbasids found they could no longer keep a huge polity larger than that of Rome together from Baghdad. In 793 the Zaydi-Shia dynasty of Idrisids set up a state from Fez in Morocco, while a family of governors under the Abbasids became increasingly independent until they founded the Aghlabid Emirate from the 830s. Al-Mu'tasim started the downward slide by utilizing non-Muslim mercenaries in his personal army. Also during this period officers started assassinating superiors with whom they disagreed, in particular the caliphs.\n\nBy the 870s Egypt became autonomous under Ahmad ibn Tulun. In the East as well, governors decreased their ties to the center. The Saffarids of Herat and the Samanids of Bukhara had broken away from the 870s, cultivating a much more Persianate culture and statecraft. By this time only the central lands of Mesopotamia were under direct Abbasid control, with Palestine and the Hijaz often managed by the Tulunids. Byzantium, for its part, had begun to push Arab Muslims farther east in Anatolia.\n\nBy the 920s, the situation had changed further, as North Africa was lost to the Abbasids. An Shia sect only recognizing the first five Imams and tracing its roots to Muhammad's daughter Fatima took control of Idrisid and then Aghlabid domains. Called the Fatimid dynasty, they had advanced to Egypt in 969, establishing their capital near Fustat in Cairo, which they built as a bastion of Shia learning and politics. By 1000 they had become the chief political and ideological challenge to Sunni Islam in the form of the Abbasids. By this time the latter state had fragmented into several governorships that, while recognizing caliphal authority from Baghdad, did mostly as they wanted, fighting with each other. The Caliph himself was under 'protection' of the Buyid Emirs who possessed all of Iraq and western Iran, and were quietly Shia in their sympathies.\n\nOutside Iraq, all the autonomous provinces slowly took on the characteristic of de facto states with hereditary rulers, armies, and revenues and operated under only nominal caliph suzerainty, which may not necessarily be reflected by any contribution to the treasury, such as the Soomro Emirs that had gained control of Sindh and ruled the entire province from their capital of Mansura. Mahmud of Ghazni took the title of sultan, as opposed to the \"amir\" that had been in more common usage, signifying the Ghaznavid Empire's independence from caliphal authority, despite Mahmud's ostentatious displays of Sunni orthodoxy and ritual submission to the caliph. In the 11th century, the loss of respect for the caliphs continued, as some Islamic rulers no longer mentioned the caliph's name in the Friday khutba, or struck it off their coinage.\n\nThe Isma'ili Fatimid dynasty of Cairo contested the Abbasids for even the titular authority of the Islamic ummah. They commanded some support in the Shia sections of Baghdad (such as Karkh), although Baghdad was the city most closely connected to the caliphate, even in the Buyid and Seljuq eras. The Fatimids' green banners contrasted with Abbasids' black, and the challenge of the Fatimids only ended with their downfall in the 12th century.\n\nDespite the power of the Buyid amirs, the Abbasids retained a highly ritualized court in Baghdad, as described by the Buyid bureaucrat Hilal al-Sabi', and they retained a certain influence over Baghdad as well as religious life. As Buyid power waned after the death of Baha' al-Daula, the caliphate was able to regain some measure of strength. The caliph al-Qadir, for example, led the ideological struggle against the Shia with writings such as the \"Baghdad Manifesto\". The caliphs kept order in Baghdad itself, attempting to prevent the outbreak of fitnas in the capital, often contending with the \"ayyarun'\n\nWith the Buyid dynasty on the wane, a vacuum was created that was eventually filled by the dynasty of Oghuz Turks known as the Seljuqs. By 1055, the Seljuqs had wrested control from the Buyids and Abbasids, and took any remaining temporal power. When the amir and former slave Basasiri took up the Shia Fatimid banner in Baghdad in, the caliph al-Qa'im was unable to defeat him without outside help. Toghril Beg, the Seljuq sultan, restored Baghdad to Sunni rule and took Iraq for his dynasty.\n\nOnce again, the Abbasids were forced to deal with a military power that they could not match, though the Abbasid caliph remained the titular head of the Islamic community. The succeeding sultans Alp Arslan and Malikshah, as well as their vizier Nizam al-Mulk, took up residence in Persia, but held power over the Abbasids in Baghdad. When the dynasty began to weaken in the 12th century, the Abbasids gained greater independence once again.\n\nWhile the Caliph al-Mustarshid was the first caliph to build an army capable of meeting a Seljuk army in battle, he was nonetheless defeated in 1135 and assassinated. The Caliph al-Muqtafi was the first Abbasid Caliph to regain the full military independence of the Caliphate, with the help of his vizier Ibn Hubayra. After nearly 250 years of subjection to foreign dynasties, he successfully defended Baghdad against the Seljuqs in the siege of Baghdad (1157), thus securing Iraq for the Abbasids. The reign of al-Nasir (d. 1225) brought the caliphate back into power throughout Iraq, based in large part on the Sufi futuwwa organizations that the caliph headed. Al-Mustansir built the Mustansiriya School, in an attempt to eclipse the Seljuq-era Nizamiyya built by Nizam al-Mulk.\n\nIn 1206, Genghis Khan established a powerful dynasty among the Mongols of central Asia. During the 13th century, this Mongol Empire conquered most of the Eurasian land mass, including both China in the east and much of the old Islamic caliphate (as well as Kievan Rus') in the west. Hulagu Khan's destruction of Baghdad in 1258 is traditionally seen as the approximate end of the Golden Age. Mongols feared that a supernatural disaster would strike if the blood of Al-Musta'sim, a direct descendant of Muhammad's uncle Al-‘Abbas ibn ‘Abd al-Muttalib, and the last reigning Abbasid caliph in Baghdad, was spilled. The Shia of Persia stated that no such calamity had happened after the death of Husayn ibn Ali in the Battle of Kerbala; nevertheless, as a precaution and in accordance with a Mongol taboo which forbade spilling royal blood, Hulagu had Al-Musta'sim wrapped in a carpet and trampled to death by horses on 20 February 1258. The Caliph's immediate family was also executed, with the lone exceptions of his youngest son who was sent to Mongolia, and a daughter who became a slave in the harem of Hulagu.\n\nIn the 9th century, the Abbasids created an army loyal only to their caliphate, composed of non-Arab origin people, known as Mamluks. This force, created in the reign of al-Ma'mun (813–33) and his brother and successor al-Mu'tasim (833–42), prevented the further disintegration of the empire. The Mamluk army, though often viewed negatively, both helped and hurt the caliphate. Early on, it provided the government with a stable force to address domestic and foreign problems. However, creation of this foreign army and al-Mu'tasim's transfer of the capital from Baghdad to Samarra created a division between the caliphate and the peoples they claimed to rule. In addition, the power of the Mamluks steadily grew until al-Radi (934–41) was constrained to hand over most of the royal functions to Muhammad ibn Ra'iq.\n\nThe Mamluks eventually came to power in Egypt. In 1261, following the devastation of Baghdad by the Mongols, the Mamluk rulers of Egypt re-established the Abbasid caliphate in Cairo. The first Abbasid caliph of Cairo was Al-Mustansir. The Abbasid caliphs in Egypt continued to maintain the presence of authority, but it was confined to religious matters. The Abbasid caliphate of Cairo lasted until the time of Al-Mutawakkil III, who was taken away as a prisoner by Selim I to Constantinople where he had a ceremonial role. He died in 1543, following his return to Cairo.\n\nThe Abbasid historical period lasting to the Mongol conquest of Baghdad in 1258 CE is considered the Islamic Golden Age. The Islamic Golden Age was inaugurated by the middle of the 8th century by the ascension of the Abbasid Caliphate and the transfer of the capital from Damascus to Baghdad. The Abbassids were influenced by the Qur'anic injunctions and hadith such as \"the ink of a scholar is more holy than the blood of a martyr\" stressing the value of knowledge. During this period the Muslim world became an intellectual center for science, philosophy, medicine and education as the Abbasids championed the cause of knowledge and established the House of Wisdom in Baghdad; where both Muslim and non-Muslim scholars sought to translate and gather all the world's knowledge into Arabic. Many classic works of antiquity that would otherwise have been lost were translated into Arabic and Persian and later in turn translated into Turkish, Hebrew and Latin. During this period the Muslim world was a cauldron of cultures which collected, synthesized and significantly advanced the knowledge gained from the ancient Roman, Chinese, Indian, Persian, Egyptian, North African, Greek and Byzantine civilizations. \"In virtually every field of endeavor—in astronomy, alchemy, mathematics, medicine, optics and so forth—the Caliphate's scientists were in the forefront of scientific advance.\"\n\nThe reigns of Harun al-Rashid (786–809) and his successors fostered an age of great intellectual achievement. In large part, this was the result of the schismatic forces that had undermined the Umayyad regime, which relied on the assertion of the superiority of Arab culture as part of its claim to legitimacy, and the Abbasids' welcoming of support from non-Arab Muslims. It is well established that the Abbasid caliphs modeled their administration on that of the Sassanids. Harun al-Rashid's son, Al-Ma'mun (whose mother was Persian), is even quoted as saying:\nA number of medieval thinkers and scientists living under Islamic rule played a role in transmitting Islamic science to the Christian West. In addition, the period saw the recovery of much of the Alexandrian mathematical, geometric and astronomical knowledge, such as that of Euclid and Claudius Ptolemy. These recovered mathematical methods were later enhanced and developed by other Islamic scholars, notably by Persian scientists Al-Biruni and Abu Nasr Mansur.\nChristians (particularly Nestorian Christians) contributed to the Arab Islamic Civilization during the Ummayads and the Abbasids by translating works of Greek philosophers to Syriac and afterwards to Arabic. Nestorians played a prominent role in the formation of Arab culture, with the Jundishapur school being prominent in the late Sassanid, Umayyad and early Abbasid periods. Notably, eight generations of the Nestorian Bukhtishu family served as private doctors to caliphs and sultans between the eighth and eleventh centuries.\n\nAlgebra was significantly developed by Persian scientist Muhammad ibn Mūsā al-Khwārizmī during this time in his landmark text, \"Kitab al-Jabr wa-l-Muqabala\", from which the term \"algebra\" is derived. He is thus considered to be the father of algebra by some, although the Greek mathematician Diophantus has also been given this title. The terms algorism and algorithm are derived from the name of al-Khwarizmi, who was also responsible for introducing the Arabic numerals and Hindu-Arabic numeral system beyond the Indian subcontinent.\nArab scientist Ibn al-Haytham (Alhazen) developed an early scientific method in his \"Book of Optics\" (1021). The most important development of the scientific method was the use of experiments to distinguish between competing scientific theories set within a generally empirical orientation, which began among Muslim scientists. Ibn al-Haytham's empirical proof of the intromission theory of light (that is, that light rays entered the eyes rather than being emitted by them) was particularly important. Alhazen was significant in the history of scientific method, particularly in his approach to experimentation, and has been referred to as the \"world’s first true scientist\".\n\nMedicine in medieval Islam was an area of science that advanced particularly during the Abbasids' reign. During the 9th century, Baghdad contained over 800 doctors, and great discoveries in the understanding of anatomy and diseases were made. The clinical distinction between measles and smallpox was described during this time. Famous Persian scientist Ibn Sina (known to the West as Avicenna) produced treatises and works that summarized the vast amount of knowledge that scientists had accumulated, and was very influential through his encyclopedias, \"The Canon of Medicine\" and \"The Book of Healing\". The work of him and many others directly influenced the research of European scientists during the Renaissance.\n\nAstronomy in medieval Islam was advanced by Al-Battani, who improved the precision of the measurement of the precession of the Earth's axis. The corrections made to the geocentric model by al-Battani, Averroes, Nasir al-Din al-Tusi, Mo'ayyeduddin Urdi and Ibn al-Shatir were later incorporated into the Copernican heliocentric model. The astrolabe, though originally developed by the Greeks, was developed further by Islamic astronomers and engineers, and subsequently brought to medieval Europe.\n\nMuslim alchemists influenced medieval European alchemists, particularly the writings attributed to Jābir ibn Hayyān (Geber). A number of chemical processes such as distillation techniques were developed in the Muslim world and then spread to Europe.\n\nThe best known fiction from the Islamic world is \"The Book of One Thousand and One Nights\", a collection of fantastical folk tales, legends and parables compiled primarily during the Abbassid era. The collection is recorded as having originated from an Arabic translation of a Sassanian era Persian prototype, with likely origins in Indian literary traditions. Stories from Arabic, Persian, Mesopotamian, and Egyptian folklore and literature were later incorporated. The epic is believed to have taken shape in the 10th century and reached its final form by the 14th century; the number and type of tales have varied from one manuscript to another. All Arabian fantasy tales were often called \"Arabian Nights\" when translated into English, regardless of whether they appeared in \"The Book of One Thousand and One Nights\". This epic has been influential in the West since it was translated in the 18th century, first by Antoine Galland. Many imitations were written, especially in France. Various characters from this epic have themselves become cultural icons in Western culture, such as Aladdin, Sinbad and Ali Baba.\n\nA famous example of Islamic poetry on romance was \"Layla and Majnun\", an originally Arabic story which was further developed by Iranian, Azerbaijani and other poets in Persian, Azerbaijani, Turkish languages. It is a tragic story of undying love much like the later \"Romeo and Juliet\".\n\nArabic poetry reached its greatest height in the Abbasid era, especially before the loss of central authority and the rise of the Persianate dynasties. Writers like Abu Tammam and Abu Nuwas were closely connected to the caliphal court in Baghdad during the early 9th century, while others such as al-Mutanabbi received their patronage from regional courts.\n\nOne of the common definitions for \"Islamic philosophy\" is \"the style of philosophy produced within the framework of Islamic culture.\" Islamic philosophy, in this definition is neither necessarily concerned with religious issues, nor is exclusively produced by Muslims. Their works on Aristotle was a key step in the transmission of learning from ancient Greeks to the Islamic world and the West. They often corrected the philosopher, encouraging a lively debate in the spirit of ijtihad. They also wrote influential original philosophical works, and their thinking was incorporated into Christian philosophy during the Middle Ages, notably by Thomas Aquinas.\n\nThree speculative thinkers, al-Kindi, al-Farabi, and Avicenna, combined Aristotelianism and Neoplatonism with other ideas introduced through Islam, and Avicennism was later established as a result. Other influential Abbasid philosophers include al-Jahiz, and Ibn al-Haytham (Alhacen).\n\nAs the power shifted from the Umayyads to the Abbasids, the architecture styles changed also. The Christian styles evolved into a style based more on the Sasanian Empire utilizing mud bricks and baked bricks with carved stucco. Another major development was the creation or vast enlargement of cities as they were turned into the capital of the empire. First, starting with the creation of Baghdad, starting in 762, which was planned as a walled city with a mosque and palace in the center. The walls were to have four gates to exit the city. Al-Mansur, who was responsible for the creation of Baghdad, also planned the city of Raqqa, along the Euphrates. Finally, in 836, al-Mu'tasim moved the capital to a new site that he created along the Tigris, called Samarra. This city saw 60 years of work, with race-courses and game preserves to add to the atmosphere. Due to the dry remote nature of the environment, some of the palaces built in this era were isolated havens. Al-Ukhaidir Fortress is a fine example of this type of building which has stables, living quarters, and a mosque, all surrounding inner courtyards. Other mosques of this era, such as the Mosque of Ibn Tulun, in Cairo, and the Great Mosque of Kairouan in Tunisia while ultimately built during the Umayyad dynasty, it was substantially renovated in the 9th century. This renovation was so extensive as to ostensibly be a rebuild, was in the furthest reaches of the Muslim world, in an area that the Aghlabids controlled; however the styles utilized were mainly of the Abbasids. Mesopotamia only has one surviving mausoleum from this era, in Samarra. This octagonal dome is the final resting place of al-Muntasir. Other architectural innovations and styles were few, such as the four-centered arch, and a dome erected on squinches. Unfortunately, much was lost due to the ephemeral nature of the stucco and luster tiles.\n\nThe Near East has, since Roman times, been recognized as a center of quality glassware and crystal. 9th century finds from Samarra show styles similar to Sassanian forms. The types of objects made were bottles, flasks, vases, and cups utilized for domestic use. Decorations on these domestic items include molded flutes, honeycomb patterns, and inscriptions. Other styles seen that may not have come from the Sassanians were stamped items. These were typically round stamps, such as medallions or disks with animals, birds, or Kufic inscriptions. Colored lead glass, typically blue or green, have been found in Nishapur, along with prismatic perfume bottles. Finally, cut glass may have been the high point of Abbasid glass-working, decorated with floral and animal designs.\n\nEarly Abbasid painting has not survived in great quantities, and sometimes harder to differentiate; however Samarra is a good example as it was built by the Abbasids and abandoned 56 years later. The walls of the principal rooms of the palace that has been excavated show wall paintings and lively carved stucco dadoes. The style is obviously adopted with little variation from Sassanian art, as not only the styles is similar with harems, animals, and dancing people, all enclosed in scrollwork, but also the garments are Persian. Nishapur had its own school of painting. Excavations at Nishapur show artwork both monochrome and polychrome from the 8th and 9th centuries. One famous piece of art consists of hunting nobles with falcons and on horseback, in full regalia; the clothing identifies him as Tahirid, which was again, a sub-dynasty of the Abbasids. Other styles are of vegetation, and fruit in nice colors on a four foot high dedo.\n\nWhereas painting and architecture were not areas of strength for the Abbasid dynasty, pottery was a different story. The Islamic culture as a whole and the Abbasid's, in particular, were at the forefront of new ideas and techniques. Some examples of their work were pieces engraved with decorations and then colored with yellow-brown, green, and purple glazes. Designs were diverse with geometric patterns, Kufic lettering, arabesque scrollwork, along with rosettes, animals, birds, and humans. Abbasid pottery from the 8th and 9th centuries have been found throughout the region, as far as Cairo. These were generally made with a yellow clay and fired multiple times with separate glazes to produce metallic luster in shades of gold, brown, or red. By the 9th century, the potters had mastered their techniques and their decorative designs could be divided into two styles. The Persian style would show animals, birds, humans, along with Kufic lettering in gold. Pieces excavated from Samarra exceed in vibrancy and beauty any from later periods. These predominantly being made for the Caliphs use. Tiles were also made utilizing this same technique to create both monochromic and polychromic luster tiles.\n\nEgypt being a center of the textile industry was part of the Abbasid cultural advancement. Copts were employed in the textile industry and produced linens and silks. Tinnis was famous for its factories and had over 5,000 looms. Kasab, a fine linen for turbans and badana for garments of the upper class to name a couple. In a town named Tuna near Tinnis, was made the kiswah for the kaaba in Mecca. Fine silk was also made in Dabik and Damietta. Of particular interest is the stamped and inscribed fabrics. Not only did they utilize inks but also liquid gold. Some of the finer pieces were colored in such a manner as to require six separate stamps to achieve the proper design and color. This technology spread to Europe eventually.\n\nIn technology, the Abbasids adopted papermaking from China. The use of paper spread from China into the caliphate in the 8th century CE, arriving in al-Andalus (Islamic Spain) and then the rest of Europe in the 10th century. It was easier to manufacture than parchment, less likely to crack than papyrus, and could absorb ink, making it ideal for making records and making copies of the Koran. \"Islamic paper makers devised assembly-line methods of hand-copying manuscripts to turn out editions far larger than any available in Europe for centuries.\" It was from the Abbasids that the rest of the world learned to make paper from linen. The knowledge of gunpowder was also transmitted from China via the caliphate, where the formulas for pure potassium nitrate and an explosive gunpowder effect were first developed.\n\nAdvances were made in irrigation and farming, using new technology such as the windmill. Crops such as almonds and citrus fruit were brought to Europe through al-Andalus, and sugar cultivation was gradually adopted by the Europeans. Apart from the Nile, Tigris and Euphrates, navigable rivers were uncommon, so transport by sea was very important. Navigational sciences were highly developed, making use of a rudimentary sextant (known as a kamal). When combined with detailed maps of the period, sailors were able to sail across oceans rather than skirt along the coast. Abbasid sailors were also responsible for reintroducing large three masted merchant vessels to the Mediterranean. The name caravel may derive from an earlier Arab ship known as the \"qārib\". Arab merchants dominated trade in the Indian Ocean until the arrival of the Portuguese in the 16th century. Hormuz was an important center for this trade. There was also a dense network of trade routes in the Mediterranean, along which Muslim countries traded with each other and with European powers such as Venice, Genoa and Catalonia. The Silk Road crossing Central Asia passed through Abbasid caliphate between China and Europe.\n\nEngineers in the Abbasid caliphate made a number of innovative industrial uses of hydropower, and early industrial uses of tidal power, wind power, and petroleum (notably by distillation into kerosene). The industrial uses of watermills in the Islamic world date back to the 7th century, while horizontal-wheeled and vertical-wheeled water mills were both in widespread use since at least the 9th century. By the time of the Crusades, every province throughout the Islamic world had mills in operation, from al-Andalus and North Africa to the Middle East and Central Asia. These mills performed a variety of agricultural and industrial tasks. Abbasid engineers also developed machines (such as pumps) incorporating crankshafts, employed gears in mills and water-raising machines, and used dams to provide additional power to watermills and water-raising machines. Such advances made it possible for many industrial tasks that were previously driven by manual labour in ancient times to be mechanized and driven by machinery instead in the medieval Islamic world. It has been argued that the industrial use of waterpower had spread from Islamic to Christian Spain, where fulling mills, paper mills, and forge mills were recorded for the first time in Catalonia.\n\nA number of industries were generated during the Arab Agricultural Revolution, including early industries for textiles, sugar, rope-making, matting, silk, and paper. Latin translations of the 12th century passed on knowledge of chemistry and instrument making in particular. The agricultural and handicraft industries also experienced high levels of growth during this period.\n\nIn contrast to the earlier era, women in Abbasid society were absent from all arenas of the community's central affairs. While their Muslim forbearers led men into battle, started rebellions, and played an active role in community life, as demonstrated in the Hadith literature, Abbasid women were ideally kept in seclusion. Conquests had brought enormous wealth and large numbers of slaves to the Muslim elite. The majority of the slaves were women and children, many of whom had been dependents or harem-members of the defeated Sassanian upper classes. In the wake of the conquests an elite man could potentially own a thousand slaves, and ordinary soldiers could have ten people serving them.\n\nNabia Abbott, preeminent historian of elite women of the Abbasid Caliphate, describes the lives of harem women as follows.\nThe choicest women were imprisoned behind heavy curtains and locked doors, the strings and keys of which were entrusted into the hands of that pitiable creature – the eunuch. As the size of the harem grew, men indulged to satiety. Satiety within the individual harem meant boredom for the one man and neglect for the many women. Under these conditions ... satisfaction by perverse and unnatural means crept into society, particularly in its upper classes.\n\nThe marketing of human beings, particularly women, as objects for sexual use meant that elite men owned the vast majority of women they interacted with, and related to them as would masters to slaves. Being a slave meant relative lack of autonomy during this time period, and belonging to a harem caused a wife and her children to have little insurance of stability and continued support due to the volatile politics of harem life.\n\nElite men expressed in literature the horror they felt for the humiliation and degradation of their daughters and female relatives. For example, the verses addressed to Hasan ibn al-Firat on the death of his daughter read:\n\nEven so, courtesans and princesses produced prestigious and important poetry. Enough survives to give us access to women's historical experiences, and reveals some vivacious and powerful figures, such as the Sufi mystic Raabi'a al-Adwiyya (714–801 CE), the princess and poet 'Ulayya bint al-Mahdi (777–825 CE), and the singing-girls Shāriyah (–70 CE), Fadl Ashsha'ira (d. 871 CE) and Arib al-Ma'muniyya (797–890 CE).\n\nWhile the Abbasids originally gained power by exploiting the social inequalities against non-Arabs in the Umayyad Empire, during Abbasid rule the empire rapidly Arabized, particularly in the Fertile Crescent region (namely Mesopotamia and the Levant) as had begun under Umayyad rule. As knowledge was shared in the Arabic language throughout the empire, many people from different nationalities and religions began to speak Arabic in their everyday lives. Resources from other languages began to be translated into Arabic, and a unique Islamic identity began to form that fused previous cultures with Arab culture, creating a level of civilization and knowledge that was considered a marvel in Europe at the time.\n\nIn Baghdad there were many Abbasid military leaders who were or said they were of Arab descent. However, it is clear that most of the ranks were of Iranian origin, the vast majority being from Khorasan and Transoxania, not from western Iran or Azerbaijan. with most of the Khorasani soldiers who brought the Abbasids to power were Arabs.\n\nthe standing army of the Muslims in Khurasan was overwhelmingly Arab, The unit organization of the Abbasids was designed with the goal of ethnic and racial equality among supporters. When Abu Muslim recruited officers along the Silk Road, he registered them based not on their tribal or ethno-national affiliations but on their current places of residence.\n\nAbbasids found themselves at odds with the Shia Muslims, most of whom had supported their war against the Umayyads, since the Abbasids and the Shias claimed legitimacy by their familial connection to Prophet Muhammad; once in power, the Abbasids had disavowed any support for Shia beliefs in favor of Sunni Islam. Shortly thereafter, Berber Kharijites set up an independent state in North Africa in 801. Within 50 years the Idrisids in the Maghreb and Aghlabids of Ifriqiya and a little later the Tulunids and Ikshidids of Misr were effectively independent in Africa. The Abbasid authority began to deteriorate during the reign of al-Radi when their Turkic Army generals, who already had de facto independence, stopped paying the Caliphate. Even provinces close to Baghdad began to seek local dynastic rule. Also, the Abbasids found themselves to often be at conflict with the Umayyads in Spain. The Abbasid financial position weakened as well, with tax revenues from the Sawād decreasing in the 9th and 10th centuries.\n\nThe Abbasid Caliphate differed from others in that it did not have the same borders and extent as Islam. Particularly, in the west of the Caliphate, there were multiple smaller caliphates that existed in relative peace with them. This list represents the succession of Islamic dynasties that emerged from the fractured Abbasid empire by their general geographic location. Dynasties often overlap, where a vassal emir revolted from and later conquered his lord. Gaps appear during periods of contest where the dominating power was unclear. Except for the Fatimid Caliphate in Egypt, recognizing a Shia succession through Ali, and the Andalusian Caliphates of the Umayyads and Almohads, every Muslim dynasty at least acknowledged the nominal suzerainty of the Abbasids as Caliph and Commander of the Faithful.\n\n\nIn 656 AH/1258 CE, the year of the fall of Baghdad, and following the sack of the city, a few surviving members of the Abbasid dynastic family led by the eldest amongst them, Ismail II son of Hamza son of Ahmed son of Mohamed, made their way into the region of Fars in Southern Persia. They settled in the city of Khonj, then a great centre for learning and scholarship. Shaikh Abdulsalam Khonji (b. 661 AH – d. 746 AH) son of Abbas son of Ismail II was born in Khonj only five years after the fall of Baghdad and the arrival of his grandfather in the city. He became a great religious scholar and Sufi saint, held in high esteem by the local populace. His tomb still stands in Khonj and is a site visited by people from near and far.\n\nThe descendants of Shaikh Abdulsalam Khonji were religious scholars and figures of great respect and repute for generation after generation. One such scholar and direct descendant of Shaikh Abdulsalam Khonji in the male line, Shaikh Mohamed (d. around 905 AH) son of Shaikh Jaber son of Shaikh Ismail IV, moved to Bastak. His grandson, Shaikh Mohamed the Elder (d. 950 or 975 AH) son of Shaikh Nasser al-Din Ahmed son of Shaikh Mohamed, settled in Khonj for a time. But in 938 AH, in response to growing Safavid power, Shaikh Mohamed the Elder moved permanently to Bastak as his grandfather had done. His own grandson, Shaikh Hassan (d. 1084 AH) (also called Mulla Hassan) son of Shaikh Mohamed the Younger son of Shaikh Mohamed the Elder, is the common ancestor of all the Abbasids of Bastak and its neighbouring areas.\n\nShaikh Hassan’s grandsons, Shaikh Mohamed Saeed (b. 1096 AH – d. 1152 AH) and Shaikh Mohamed Khan (b. 1113 AH – d. 1197 AH) son of Shaikh Abdulqader son of Shaikh Hassan, became the first two Abbasid rulers of the region. In 1137 AH, Shaikh Mohamed Saeed began gathering support for an armed force. Following the capture of Lar, he ruled the city and its dependencies for 12 or 14 years before dying in 1152 AH.\n\nShaikh Mohamed Khan Bastaki, his brother, was meanwhile the ruler of Bastak and the region of Jahangiriyeh. In 1161 AH, Shaikh Mohamed Khan Bastaki departed for Didehban Fortress, leaving Bastak and its dependencies in the hands of his eldest son Shaikh Mohamed Sadeq and his cousin Agha Hassan Khan son of Mulla Ismail. Shaikh Mohamed Khan ruled Jahangiriyeh from Didehban Fortress for a period of roughly 20 to 24 years, for which reason he has been referred to as Shaikh Mohamed \"Didehban\". He eventually returned to Bastak and continued to reign from there up to the time of his death. At the height of his rule, the Khanate of Bastak included not only the region of Jahangiriyeh, but its power also extended to Lar and Bandar Abbas as well as their dependencies, not to mention several islands in the Persian Gulf.\n\nShaikh Mohamed Khan Bastaki was the first Abbasid ruler of Bastak to hold the title of \"Khan\" (Persian: خان, Arabic: الحاكم), meaning \"ruler\" or \"king\", which was bestowed upon him by Karim Khan Zand. The title then became that of all the subsequent Abbasid rulers of Bastak and Jahangiriyeh, and also collectively refers in plural form – i.e., \"Khans\" (Persian: خوانين) - to the descendants of Shaikh Mohamed Khan Bastaki.\n\nThe last Abbasid ruler of Bastak and Jahangiriyeh was Mohamed A’zam Khan Baniabbassian son of Mohamed Reza Khan \"Satvat al-Mamalek\" Baniabbasi. He authored the book \"Tarikh-e Jahangiriyeh va Baniabbassian-e Bastak\" (1960), in which is recounted the history of the region and the Abbasid family that ruled it. Mohamed A’zam Khan Baniabbassian died in 1967, a year regarded as marking the end of the Abbasid reign in Bastak.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "482939", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=482939", "title": "Al-Hakim bi-Amr Allah", "text": "Al-Hakim bi-Amr Allah\n\nAbū ʿAlī Manṣūr (13 August 985 – 13 February 1021), better known by his regnal title al-Ḥākim bi-Amr Allāh (; literally \"Ruler by God's Command\"), was the sixth Fatimid caliph and 16th Ismaili imam (996–1021). Al-Hakim is an important figure in a number of Shia Ismaili religions, such as the world's 15 million Nizaris, in addition to the 2 million Druze of the Levant whose eponymous founder ad-Darazi proclaimed him as the incarnation of God in 1018.\n\nHistories of al-Hakim can prove controversial, as diverse views of his life and legacy exist. Historian Paul Walker writes: “Ultimately, both views of him, the mad and despotic tyrant (like Germanic and Roman despots) irrationally given to killing those around him on a whim, and the ideal supreme ruler, divinely ordained and chosen, whose every action was just and righteous, were to persist, the one among his enemies and those who rebelled against him, and the other in the hearts of true believers, who, while perhaps perplexed by events, nonetheless remained avidly loyal to him to the end.\"\n\nBorn in 985 CE, Abu `Ali \"Mansur\" was the first Fatimid ruler to have been born in Egypt. Abu `Ali \"Mansur\" had been proclaimed as heir-apparent (wali al-‘ahd) in 993 CE and succeeded his father Abū Mansūr Nizār al-Azīz (975–996) at the age of eleven on 14 October 996 with the caliphal title of \"al-Hakim Bi-Amr Allah\". Al-Ḥākim had blue eyes flecked with reddish gold.\n\nAl-Ḥākim was born on Thursday, 3 Rābi‘u l-Awwal in 985 (375 A.H.). His father, Caliph Abū Mansūr al-‘Azīz bil-Lāh, had two consorts. One was an \"umm al-walad\" who is only known by the title \"as-Sayyidah al-‘Azīziyyah\" or \"al-‘Azīzah\" (d. 385/995). She was a Melkite Christian whose two brothers were appointed patriarchs of the Melkite Church by Caliph al-‘Azīz. Different sources say either one of her brothers or her father was sent by al-‘Azīz as an ambassador to Sicily.\n\nAl-‘Azīzah is considered to be the mother of Sitt al-Mulk, one of the most famous women in Islamic history, who had a stormy relationship with her half-brother al-Ḥākim and may have had him murdered. Some, such as the Crusader chronicler William of Tyre, claimed that \"al-‘Azīzah\" was also the mother of Caliph al-Ḥākim, though most historians dismiss this . William of Tyre went so far as to claim that al-Ḥākim's destruction of the Church of the Holy Sepulchre in 1009 was due to his eagerness to disprove taunts that he was a Christian born of a Christian woman. By contrast, the chronicler al-Musabbihi recounts that in 981, al-Ḥākim's Muslim mother sought the aid of an imprisoned Islamic sage named ibn al-Washa and asked him to pray for her son who had fallen ill. The sage wrote the entire Qur'an in the inner surface of a bowl and bade her wash her son out of it. When al-Ḥākim recovered, she demanded the release of the sage in gratitude. Her request was granted and the sage and his associates were freed from prison.\n\nDruze sources claim that al-Ḥākim's mother was the daughter of ‘Abdu l-Lāh, one of al-Mu‘īzz li Dīn al-Lāh's sons and therefore al-‘Azīz's niece. Historians such as Delia Cortese are critical of this claim:\n\nIn 996, al-Ḥākim's father Caliph al-‘Azīz began a trip to visit Syria (which was held by the Fatimids only by force of arms and was under pressure from the Byzantines). The Caliph fell ill at the beginning of the trip at Bilbeis and lay in sickbed for several days. He suffered from \"stone with pains in the bowels.\" When he felt that his end was nearing he charged Qadi Muhammad ibn an-Nu‘man and General Abū Muhammad al-Hasan ibn ‘Ammar to take care of al-Ḥākim, who was then only eleven. He then spoke to his son. Al-Ḥākim later recalled the event:\n\nBecause it had been unclear whether he would inherit his father's position, this successful transfer of power was a demonstration of the stability of the Fatimid dynasty.\n\nNevertheless, the Kutama Berbers seized the chance to recover their dominant position in the state, which had eroded under al-Aziz due to the influx of Turkish and Daylamite mercenaries from the Islamic East (the \"Mashāriqa\", \"Easterners\"). They compelled the underage al-Hakim to dismiss the Christian vizier Ibn Nasturis (who was executed shortly after) and appoint their leader Ibn Ammar to head the government, with the title of \"wāsiṭa\" (\"intermediary\") rather than full vizier. Ibn Ammar's rule quickly descended into a Berber tyranny: he immediately began staffing the government with Berbers, who engaged in a virtual pillaging of the state coffers. The Berbers' attempts to exclude the other interest groups from power—not only the Turks and the other ethnic contingents of the army, but also the civilian bureaucracy, whose salary was cut—alienated not only the \"Mashāriqa\", but alarmed Barjawan as well. Barjawan contacted the Fatimid governor of Damascus, the Turk Manjutakin, and invited him to march onto Egypt and depose Ibn Ammar. Manjutakin accepted, but was defeated by Ibn Ammar's troops under Sulayman ibn Ja'far ibn Falah at Ascalon and taken prisoner. Barjawan however soon found a new ally, in the person of the Kutama leader Jaysh ibn Samsam, governor of Tripoli, whom Ibn Falah dismissed and replaced with his own brother. Jaysh and Barjawan gathered a following of other dissatisfied Berber leaders, and launched an uprising in Cairo in October 997. Ibn Ammar was forced to flee, and Barjawan replaced him as \"wāsiṭa\".\n\nDuring his predominance, Barjawan managed to balance the two factions, fulfilling the demands of the \"Mashāriqa\" while taking care of the Kutama as well. In this vein, he pardoned Ibn Ammar and restored him his monthly salary of 500 gold dinars. After Bajarwan's murder on 26 March 1000, however, Caliph al-Hakim assumed the reins of government and launched a purge of the Fatimid elites, during which Ibn Ammar and many of the other Kutama leaders were executed. To ensure his own power, Hakim limited the authority and terms of office of his wasitas and viziers, of whom there were more than 15 during the remaining 20 years of his caliphate.\n\nAl-Ḥākim's father had intended the eunuch Barjawan to act as regent until Al-Ḥākim was old enough to rule by himself. Ibn ‘Ammar and the Qadi Muhammad ibn Nu‘man were to assist in the guardianship of the new caliph. Instead, al-Hasan ibn 'Ammar (the leader of the Kutama) immediately seized the office of \"wasīta\" \"chief minister\" from ‘Īsa ibn Nestorius. At the time the office of \"sifāra\" \"secretary of state\" was also combined within that office. Ibn ‘Ammar then took the title of \"Amīn ad-Dawla\" \"the one trusted in the empire\". This was the first time that the term \"empire\" was associated with the Fatimid state.\n\nAl-Ḥākim's most rigorous and consistent opponent was the Abbāsid Caliphate in Baghdad, which sought to halt the influence of Ismailism. This competition led to the Baghdad Manifesto of 1011, in which the Abbāsids claimed that the line al-Ḥākim represented did not legitimately descend from ‘Alī.\n\nAl-Ḥākim also struggled with the Qarmatiyya rulers of Bahrain, an island in the Persian Gulf as well as territory in Eastern Arabia. His diplomatic and missionary vehicle was the Ismā'īlī \"da‘wah\" \"Mission\", with its organizational power center in Cairo.\n\nAl-Ḥākim's reign was characterized by a general unrest. The Fatimid army was troubled by a rivalry between two opposing factions, the Turks and the Berbers. Tension grew between the Caliph and his viziers (called \"wasīta\"s), and near the end of his reign the Druze movement, a religious sect centered around al-Ḥākim, began to form. Members of that sect were reported to address prayers to al-Ḥākim, whom they regarded as \"a manifestation of God in His unity.\"\n\nAlarmed by the expansion of the Fatimid dominion, the ‘Abbasid caliph Al-Qadir of Baghdad adopted retaliatory measures to halt the spread of Ismailism within the very seat of his realm. In particular, in 1011 he assembled a number of Sunni and Twelver Shiite scholars at his court and commanded them to declare in a written document that Hakim and his predecessors lacked genuine descent from Ali and Fatima. This so-called Baghdad Manifesto was read out in Friday mosques throughout the ‘Abbasid domains accusing the Fatimids of Jewish ancestry. In addition, because of Al-Hakim's alleged Christian mother, he was accused of being over-sympathetic to non-Muslims, giving them more privileges than they should have been given under Islamic rule. Such accusations were manifested through poetry criticizing the Fatimids. Qadir also commissioned several refutations of Ismaili doctrines, including those written by the Mu‘tazili ‘Ali b. Sa‘id al-Istakri (1013).\n\nHakim confronted numerous difficulties and uprisings during his relatively long reign. While he did not lose any important territories in North Africa, the Ismaili communities there were attacked by Sunni fighters led by their influential Maliki jurists. Relations between the Fatimids and the Qarmatians of Bahrain also remained hostile. On the other hand, Hakim's Syrian policy was successful as he managed to extend Fatimid hegemony to the emirate of Aleppo. Above all, the persistent rivalries between the various factions of the Fatimid armies, especially the Berbers and the Turks, overshadowed the other problems of Hakim's caliphate.\n\nAl-Ḥākim upheld diplomatic relations between the Fatimid Empire and many different countries. Skillful diplomacy was needed in establishing a friendly if not neutral basis of relations with the Byzantine Empire, which had expansionary goals in the early 11th century. Perhaps the farthest reaching diplomatic mission of al-Ḥākim's was to Song Dynasty era China. The Fatimid Egyptian sea captain known as Domiyat traveled to a Buddhist site of pilgrimage in Shandong in the year 1008 AD. It was on this mission that he sought to present to the Chinese Emperor Zhenzong of Song gifts from his ruling Caliph al-Ḥākim. This reestablished diplomatic relations between Egypt and China that had been lost during the collapse of the Tang Dynasty in 907.\n\nIn the final years of his reign, Hakim displayed a growing inclination toward asceticism and withdrew for meditation regularly. On the night of 12/13 February 1021 and at the age of 36, Hakim left for one of his night journeys to the Mokattam hills outside of Cairo, and never returned. A search found only his donkey and bloodstained garments. The disappearance has remained a mystery.\n\nAl-Ḥākim was succeeded by his young son Ali az-Zahir under the regency of his sister Sitt al-Mulk.\n\nIn Western literature he has been referred to as the \"Mad Caliph\". This title is largely due to his erratic and oppressive behavior concerning religious minorities under his command, as historian Hunt Janin relates: al-Hakim \"was known as the 'Mad Caliph' because of his many cruelties and eccentricities\". Historian Michael Bonner points out that the term is also used due to the dramatic difference between al-Hakim and his predecessors and his successors while also pointing out such persecution is an extreme rarity in Islam during this era. \"In his capital of Cairo, this unbalanced (and, in the view of most, mad) caliph raged against the Christians in particular...On the whole such episodes remained exceptional, like the episodes of forced conversion to Islam.\" Historian Michael Foss also notes this contrast \"For more than three hundred and fifty years, from the time when the Caliph Omar made a treaty with the Patriarch Sophronius until 1009, when mad al-Hakim began attacks on Christians and Jews, the city of Jerusalem and the Holy Land were open to the West, with an easy welcome and the way there was no more dangerous than a journey from Paris to Rome...Soon [after al-Hakim] the panic was over. In 1037 al-Mustansir came to an amicable agreement with Emperor Michael IV.\"\n\nAs one prominent journal has noted, al-Ḥākim has attracted the interest of modern historians more than any other member of the Fatimid dynasty because: \"His eccentric character, the inconsistencies and radical shifts in his conduct and policies, the extreme austerity of his personal life, the vindictive and sanguinary ruthlessness of his dealing with the highest officials of his government coupled with an obsession to suppress all signs of corruption and immorality in public life, his attempted annihilation of Christians and call for the systematic destruction of all Christian holy places in the middle east culminating in the destruction of the most holy Church of the Resurrection in Jerusalem, his deification by a group of extremist Isma'li missionaries who became the forerunners and founders of the Druze religion, [which] all combine to contrast his reign sharply with that of any of his predecessors and successors and indeed of any Muslim ruler... The question is to what extent his conduct can be explained as rationally motivated and conditioned by the circumstances rather than as the inscrutable workings of an insane mind.\"\n\nThe claim that al-Hakim was mad and the version of events around him is disputed as mere propaganda by some scholars, such as Willi Frischaue, who states: \"His enemies called him the 'Mad Caliph' but he enhanced Cairo's reputation as a centre of civilization.\" The writing of historian Heinz Halm attempts to dispel \"those distorted and hostile accounts, stating that the anti-Fatimid tradition tried to make a real monster of this caliph.\"\n\nHakim maintained a keen interest in the organization and operation of the Fatimid Ismaili da‘wa (preaching) centred in Cairo. Under his reign it was systematically intensified outside the Fatimid dominions especially in Iraq and Persia. In Iraq, the da‘is now concentrated their efforts on a number of local amirs and influential tribal chiefs with whose support they aimed to uproot the Abbasids. Foremost among the Fatimid da‘is of this period operating in the eastern provinces was Hamid al-Din Kirmani, the most accomplished Ismaili theologian-philosopher of the entire Fatimid period. The activities of Kirmani and other da‘is soon led to concrete results in Iraq: in 1010 the ruler of Mosul, Kufa and other towns acknowledged the suzerainty of Hakim.\n\nIn the area of education and learning, one of Hakim's most important contributions was the founding in 1005 of the \"Dar al-Alem\" (House of Knowledge) or \"Dar al-Hikma\" (House of Wisdom). A wide range of subjects ranging from the Qur'an and hadith to philosophy and astronomy were taught at the Dar al-alem, which was equipped with a vast library. Access to education was made available to the public and many Fatimid da‘is received at least part of their training in this major institution of learning which served the Ismaili da‘wa (mission) until the downfall of the Fatimid dynasty.\n\nIn 1013 he completed the mosque in Cairo begun by his father, the Masjid al-Hākim \"Hākim's Mosque\" whose official name is \"Jame-ul-Anwar\". Over time the mosque fell to ruins. In the 1970s the Bohras Mission group (who claim to be descendants of the Fatimid dynasty) under Dr. Syedna Mohammed Burhanuddin, attempted a restoration of the then dilapidated Al-Hakim Mosque. Their attempts received strong criticism from academics, conservators, and art historians who saw the effort as entirely reconstructing to \"a new building\" rather than restoration. In response to the criticism the Bohras group ceased attempts at any more building restorations in Cairo.\n\nHakim made the education of the Ismailis and the Fatimid da‘is a priority; in his time various study sessions (\"majalis\") were established in Cairo. Hakim provided financial support and endowments for these educational activities. The private ‘wisdom sessions’ (majalis al-hikma) devoted to esoteric Ismaili doctrines and reserved exclusively for initiates, now became organized so as to be accessible to different categories of participants. Al Hakim himself often attended these sessions which were held at the Fatimid palace. The name (majalis al-hikma) is still adopted by the Druze and Taiyabi Ismailis as the name of the building in which their religious assembly and worship is carried, it's often abbreviated as Majlis (session).\n\nAl-Hakim is a central figure in the history of the Druze religious sect.\n\nAccording to the religious scholar Nissim Dana, al-Ḥākim's relationship with other monotheistic religions can be divided into three separate stages.\n\nFrom 996 to 1006 when most of the executive functions of the Khalif were performed by his advisors, the Shiite al-Ḥākim \"behaved like the Shiite khalifs, who he succeeded, exhibiting a hostile attitude with respect to Sunni Muslims, whereas the attitude toward 'People of the Book' – Jews and Christians – was one of relative tolerance, in exchange for the jizya tax.\"\n\nIn 1005, al-Ḥākim ordered a public posting of curses against the first three Caliphs (Abu Bakr, Umar and Uthman) and against Aisha, wife of Muhammad, for denying the caliphate to Muhammad's cousin and son-in-law ‘Alī, who according to Shia beliefs, was the rightful prophetic successor.\n\nAccording to historian Nissîm Dānā, al-Ḥākim ordered that \"curses were registered against the warrior Muawiyah I, founder of the Umayyad Caliphate, and against others in the inner circle of Muhammad from the Sahabah - the compatriots of Muhammad in the way of Islam.\" This was in accordance with Shia practice, as laid out by Muslim scholar Ayatollah Haydari \"the followers of Ahl al-Bayt [Shias] say 'O Allah curse all of the Banu Umayya'.\" The Shia maintain that out of hatred for ‘Alī, Mu‘awiyah ordered the Talbiyah not be said (as it was promoted by ‘Alī) and ordered people to curse him (Sa`d ibn Abi Waqqas refused to do so). The Shia hold that Mu‘awiyah and all of the Umayyid caliphs (with the possible exception of Umar II) were Nasibi who \"are the hypocrites for whom hatred of ‘Alī is their religion...They don't just hate ‘Alī, but they worship Allah and seek closeness to Him by hating ‘Alī.\"\n\nAfter only two years of posting the curses, al-Ḥākim ended the practice. During this era, al-Ḥākim ordered that the inclusion of the phrase \"as-salāh khayr min an-nawm\" \"prayer is preferable to sleep\", which followed fajr prayer, be stopped – he saw it as a Sunni addition. In its place he ordered that \"ḥayyi ‘alā khayr al-‘amal\" \"come to the best of deeds\" should be said after the summons was made. He further forbade the use of two prayers – \"Salāt at-Tarāwih\" and \"Salāt ad-Duha\" as they were believed to have been formulated by Sunni sages.\n\nIn 1004 Al-Hakim decreed that the Christians could no longer celebrate Epiphany or Easter. He also outlawed the use of wine (\"nabidh\") and even other intoxicating drinks not made from grapes (\"fuqa\") to both Muslims and non-Muslims alike. This produced a hardship for both Christians (who used wine in their religious rites) and Jews (who used it in their religious festivals).\n\nIn 1005, al-Ḥākim ordered that Jews and Christians follow \"ghiyār\" \"the law of differentiation\" – in this case, the \"mintaq\" or \"zunnar\" \"belt\" (Greek ζωνάριον) and \"‘imāmah\" \"turban\", both in black. In addition, Jews must wear a wooden calf necklace and Christians an iron cross. In the public baths, Jews must replace the calf with a bell. In addition, women of the People of the Book had to wear two different coloured shoes, one red and one black. These remained in place until 1014.\n\nFollowing contemporary Shiite thinking, during this period al-Ḥākim also issued many other restrictive ordinances (\"sijillat\"). These \"sijill\" included outlawing entrance to a public bath with uncovered loins, forbidding women from appearing in public with their faces uncovered, and closing many clubs and places of entertainment.\n\nFrom 1007 to 1012 \"there was a notably tolerant attitude toward the Sunnis and less zeal for Shiite Islam, while the attitude with regard to the 'People of the Book' was hostile.\" On 18 October 1009, al- Hakim ordered the destruction of the Holy Sepulchre and its associated buildings, apparently outraged by what he regarded as the fraud practiced by the monks in the \"miraculous\" Descent of the Holy Fire, celebrated annually at the church during the Easter Vigil. The chronicler Yahia noted that \"only those things that were too difficult to demolish were spared.\" Processions were prohibited, and a few years later all of the convents and churches in Palestine were said to have been destroyed or confiscated. It was only in 1042 that the Byzantine Emperor Constantine IX undertook to reconstruct the Holy Sepulchre with the permission of Al-Hakim's successor.\n\nal-Ḥākim ultimately allowed the unwilling Christian and Jewish converts to Islam to return to their faith and rebuild their ruined houses of worship. Indeed, from 1012 to 1021 al-Ḥākim \n\nWhile it is clear that Hamza ibn Ahmad was the Caliph's chief \"dāʿī\"; there are claims that al-Ḥākim believed in his own divinity. Other scholars disagree with this assertion of direct divinity, particularly the Druze themselves, noting that its proponent was ad-Darazi, who (according to some resources) al-Ḥākim executed for \"shirk\". Letters show that ad-Darazi was trying to gain control of the \"Muwahhidun\" movement and this claim was an attempt to gain support from the Caliph, who instead found it heretical.\n\nThe Druze find this assertion offensive; they hold ad-Darazi as the first apostate of the sect and their beliefs regarding al-Ḥākim are complex. Following a typical Isma'ili pattern, they place a preeminent teacher at the innermost circle of divinely inspired persons. For the Druze, the exoteric is taught by the Prophet, the esoteric by his secret assistants, and the esoteric of the esoteric by Imām al-Ḥākim.\n\nConfusion and slander by opponents of the Druze were generally left uncorrected as the teachings of the sect are secret and the Druze preferred taqiyya when independence was impossible.\n\nThe mother of al-Ḥākim's heir ‘Alī az-Zāhir was the \"umm al-walad\" Amīna Ruqayya, daughter to the late prince ‘Abdu l-Lāh, son of al-Mu‘īzz. Some see her as the same as the woman in the prediction reported by al-Hamidi which held \"that in 390/1000 al-Ḥākim would choose an orphan girl of good stock brought up his father al-Aziz and that she would become the mother of his successor.\" While the chronicler al-Maqrizi claims that al-Ḥākim's stepsister Sitt al-Mulk was hostile to Amīna, other sources say she gave her and her child refuge when they were fleeing al-Ḥākim's persecution. Some sources say al-Ḥākim married the \"jariya\" (young female servant) known by the title as-Sayyidah but historians are unsure if this is just another name for Amīna.\n\nBesides his son, al-Ḥākim had a daughter named Sitt Misr (d. 455/1063) who was said to be a generous patroness and of noble and good character.\n\nThe story of Hakim's life inspired (presumably through Antoine Isaac Silvestre de Sacy) the French author Gérard de Nerval (1808-1855) who recounted his version of it (“Histoire du Calife Hakem”: \"History of the Caliph Hakem\") as an appendix to his \"Voyage to the Orient\" (1851). He is a major character in \"The Prisoner of Al-Hakim\" by American novelist Bradley Steffens, which recounts the ten-year imprisonment of Ibn al-Haytham under Al-Hakim's rule.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24842756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24842756", "title": "Ashtami", "text": "Ashtami\n\nAshtami (अष्टमी \"aṣṭhamī\") is the eighth day (Tithi) of Hindu lunar calendar.\n\nKrishna Janmashtami or Gokul Ashtami is a Hindu festival celebrating the birth of Lord Krishna, an avatar of Hindu deity Vishnu.\n\nKrishna Janmashtami is observed on the Ashtami tithi, the eighth day of the dark half or Krishna Paksha of the month of Bhaadra in the Hindu calendar, when the Rohini Nakshatra (called Aldebaran in the West) is ascendant. Rasa lila or dramatic enactments of the life of Krishna are a special feature in regions of Mathura, and Vrindavan, Nalbari and regions following Vaishnavism in Manipur.\n\nTrilochana Ashtami or Trilochanashtami (त्रिलोचन अष्टमी), is a Hindu auspicious day dedicated to Lord Shiva and Goddess Parvati celebrated in Odisha and different parts of India.\n\n\"Tri\"(त्रि) means Three and \"lochan\"(लोचन) means Eye. Hence one who having three eyes is called as Trilochan (त्रिलोचन) literally means to Lord Shiva, three-eyed, that is, indication of the present, past and future.\n\nBhairava Ashtami or Kalabhairava Ashtami commemorating the day Kal Bhairav, a fierce manifestation of Lord Shiva, appeared on earth, is celebrated on Krishna paksha Ashtami of the Margashirsha month with a day special prayers and rituals.\n\nRadhastami is celebrated by Krishna devotees as the appearance anniversary of Srimati Radharani\n"}
{"id": "35938809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35938809", "title": "Atthasālinī", "text": "Atthasālinī\n\nAtthasālinī (Pali) is a Buddhist text composed by Buddhaghosa in the Theravada Abhidharma tradition. The title has been translated as \"The Expositor\" or \"Providing the Meaning\". In the \"Atthasālinī\", Buddhaghosa explains the meaning of terms that occur in the Dhammasangani, a Buddhist text that is part of the Pali Canon of Theravada Buddhism.\n\nWithin the \"Atthasālinī\", Buddhaghosa explains the meanings of the fifty-two mental factors (Pali: cetasikas) described in the Dhammasangani.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57093604", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57093604", "title": "Bolotnik", "text": "Bolotnik\n\nIn Slavic mythology, bolotnik (), Belarusian balotnik (), Ukrainian bolotyanik () is a male swamp spirit. There are many descriptions of bolotnik. Usually he was portrayed as a man or an old man who has big, frog-like eyes, a green beard and long hair. His body is covered with dirt, algae and fish scales. Other legends says, that a bolotnik is dirty, fat, eyeless creature that motionlessly sits at the bottom of the swamp. In some legends bolotnik is also said to have long arms and a tail. Like the vodyanoy or rusalka, he lures and drags people into the water if they get close to the edge. It is believed that bolotnik has neither wife nor children; in the other legends he is married on bolotnitsa (or bolotnica), a female swamp spirit, similar to a rusalka.\n\nBolotnik has a lot of names: bolotny (Russian: болотный; literally «swampy»), bolotny dedko (Russian: болотный дедко; «swamp oldman»), shut bolotny (Russian: шут болотный; «swamp jester»), bolotny chert (Russian: болотный чёрт; «swamp demon»), bolotny leshy (Russian: болотный леший), tsar bolotny (Russian: царь болотный), boloto (Russian: болото; «swamp»), ancibal (Russian: анцибал), ancibul (Russian: анцибул), ancibalka (Russian: анцибалка), ancibalit (Russian: анцибалит), anchibal (Russian: анчибал), anchibol (Russian: анчибол), Belarusian balotnik (Belarusian: балотнiк), Ukrainian bolotyanik (Ukrainian: болотяник), ocheretyanik (Russian: очеретяник).\n\nIt is believed that bolotnik and bolotnitsa lured people or animals to the swamp, where they would die.\n\nTo lure people to the swamp, a bolotnik quacked like a duck, mooed like a cow, gurgled like a black cock or screamed. He also grew near the swamp stupefying herbs, mostly rosemary and created will-o'-the-wisps on the surface of the water . When a person is already in the quagmire, bolotnik grabs him by the feet and slowly, but inevitably drags him to the depths.\n\nIn the Russian North it is believed, that bolotnitsa (bolotnica) is the mistress of the swamp and tundra. Like the bolotnik, there are many different descriptions of her. In one legend she is a rusalka (or a rusalka's sister). It was believed, for example, that a girl, who had died in a swamp or was carried away by an unclean spirit, could turn into the bolotnitsa. In some places bolotnitsa was considered to be more like a spirit that had no connections with the human race. Bolotnitsa was portrayed as a beautiful young girl with pale-white skin and goose legs instead of normal legs. To hide them, bolotnitsa would sit on a giant water lily, putting her legs under her. She lured people into the swamp with a loud cry for help and pretending that she was drowning. If they were charmed by her beauty, people would get close to her. She would then pounce on them and slowly pull them to the bottom of the swamp. It was believed that bolotnitsa liked to sing. However, in other legends bolotnitsa is described as an old swamp hag.\n\nBolotnitsas also can cause storms, rain and hail.\n\n"}
{"id": "52032905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52032905", "title": "Buddhism in Hungary", "text": "Buddhism in Hungary\n\nBuddhism in Hungary exists since 1951 when Ernő Hetényi founded Buddhist Mission in Germany as a member of the Arya Maitreya Mandala Buddhist order (Mahayana school). However, the first Buddhist community had been founded in the 1890s in Máramarossziget (today Sighetu Marmației, part of Romania). József Hollósy took refuge and he wrote \"Buddhista Kátét\" (1893) the first Buddhist catechism in Hungarian. According to this Dharma has been present in Hungary for more than a century. In 1933 Hungarian philologist and Orientalist, author of the first Tibetan-English dictionary and grammar book Sándor Kőrösi Csoma was recognised as a bodhisattva in Japan. In Hungary József Hollósy is regarded as the second bodhisattva.\n\nIn Hungary Buddhism has several forms, all of them with their own independent school of thought. The different organisations coexist fairly harmoniously, but active communication between them is rather feeble.\n\nOfficially seven stupas have been inaugurated in Hungary: two in Budapest, and one in Budakeszi, Bükkmogyorósd (Csernely), Zalaszántó, Tar, and Becskén. The Peace Stupa in Zalaszántó is the biggest Buddhist shrine in Europe with a 30 meter height and 24 meter width.\n\nHungary has a Buddhist high-school named after B. R. Ambedkar and a college (Dharma Gate Buddhist College).\n\nThe ancient religion of Hungarian tribes was shamanism but presumably they had come across Buddhism during their westward migration and some of them had probably adopted Buddhism as their religion. Due to religious tolerance of Buddhism it was possible to practice two or more traditions at the same time, just like in the case of Tibetan and Mongolian tribes. In the 15th century a Geleotti, humanist philosopher, running away from inquisition found refuge at the court of Matthias Corvinus, king of Hungary. Galeotti called the Buddha an \"Indian sage\" and he thought that the capital of the country, Buda was named after him.\n\nSándor Kőrösi Csoma, in the hope of finding the ancient homeland of the Hungarians, wanted to travel to India via Afghanistan, and further on to Mongolia via Tibet. Eventually he only got to reach Ladakh in Northern India. During this period at Zanskar (he was the first European to visit the valley), he was immersed in an intense sixteen-month study of the Tibetan language and the Indo-Tibetan Buddhism at the core of its literature, with a local lama, Sangs-rgyas-phun-tshogs. He was one of the first Europeans to master the Tibetan language and read two of the great encyclopaedias of Indo-Tibetan Buddhist literature the Kangyur (100 volumes) and the bsTan-'gyur (224 volumes) which contained translations of Buddhist books brought from India.\nKőrösi Csoma was given bodhisattva title in Tokyo in 1933 at the Taishyo Buddhist University as Csoma Bosatsu.\n\nBuddhism appeared first in Hungary in the end of the 1890s, when József Hollósy, brother of painter Simon Hollósy, took refuge and wrote \"Buddhista Káté\" (1893).\n\nLászló Mednyánszky was working on the sketches of the Arrival of the Hungarians, painting of Árpád Feszty, in Máramarossziget. József Hollósy lead a Buddhist circle which became a great influence for Mednyánszky. As a result, he dedicated the rest of his life to Buddhism. Mednyánszky was the first Hungarian artist to represent Buddhism with his choice of colours and themes.\nThere was another Buddhist community in Budapest between 1931 and 1935. The main figures were László Vágó wholesaler and Tibor Boromisza painter. Their seals represented Buddha under a székely gate (ornate door) surrounded by an epigraph: „Magyar Buddhisták” (Hungarian Buddhists).\n\nWriter Géza Gárdonyi also believed in reincarnation and there was a time when he wanted to convert to Buddhism.\n\nThe first official Sangha in Hungary was founded in 1951-ben by Ernő Hetényi who was ordained in Germany in 1938. The actual date of the foundation of the Hungarian Buddhist Mission is 18 February 1952.\nArya Maitreya Mandala German Buddhist order was founded by Lama Anagarika Govinda, German traveller, philosopher, painter, and poet. This order belongs to Mahayana and its rites follow the Tibetan tradition. Ernő Hetényi was the third person who graduated from this order. In 1956 the Buddhist Mission was declared Eastern European centre to promote Buddhism in the neighbouring countries. The mission aimed at representing all Buddhist schools without partiality. The foundation of Kőrösi Csoma Sándor International Buddhology Institute in Berlin was aimed to achieve the same goal. During his eastern travels Hetényi visited monasteries in India, Mongolia, Buryatia, and Laos. He received empowerment from Tibetan and Mongolian lamas and in 1982 he was blessed by the 14th Dalai Lama whom he met three times.\n\nIn 1990, due to several issues, the Kőrösi Csoma Sándor Institute was closed, but later, two great historical figures of Hungarian Buddhism, Dobosy Antal and Takács László, reorganised and reopened it. After this Buddhist orders and schools were open throughout the country. The sudden liberty and the large number of institutions also involved some degree of drop in quality. New books appeared which were mainly translations from English. A large part of the works of Sándor Kőrösi Csoma remain untranslated to this day.\n\nThere are seven stupas in Hungary so far: two in Budapest, and one in Budakeszi, Bükkmogyorósd (Csernely), Zalaszántó, Tar, and Becske. Three of them can be visited freely for the public: the one in Zalaszántó (the biggest, in Zala County), the one in Tar and the newest one in Becske (these later two in Nógrád County); two out of the other four are in Budapest, one in Budakeszi, and near Bükkmogyorósd, in Úszón (Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County). Furthermore, there is a stupa in Biri, Szabolcs-Szatmár-Bereg County which was built in 2010.\n\nThe Hoboji Zen Temple is in Pilisszentlászló, Von Kvang Sza International Zen Temple is near Esztergom, and Mokusho Zen House is in Szombathely.\n\nBu Yi Temple in the 15th district of Budapest is the first temple of the Chan Buddhists of the Hungarian Chinese.\n\nDhammadipa Monastery is in Bajna village in a small valley, along the road between Bajna and Epöl.\n\nThe 14th Dalai Lama, Tenzin Gyatso has visited Hungary seven times. First in 1982, then in 1990, 1992, 1993, 1996, 2000, and 2010. His first visit was during his travel to Rome (to meet Pope John Paul II) on 26 September 1982. He spent the night in the guest house of government of the Hungarian Peoples Republic. He was welcomed on behalf of the government by József Marjai, chief prime minister of Hungary. At the airport waiting lounge he met the Mongolian ambassador, and Ernő Hetényi, founder and leader of the Hungarian Buddhist Mission. The Dalai Lama was invited by several Hungarian Buddhist institutions and he paid a visit to Hungary between 25 and 30 April 1990. During his stay he gave Chenrezig empowerment at the Marx Károly University of Economics (today Corvinus University of Budapest), and he gave sermon in St. Stephen's Basilica together with Cardinal László Paskai and other representatives of the historically important churches. Between 20 and 25 July 1992 he paid visit to Hungary for the invitation of Csan Buddhist Church amongst others. His public speech in Budapest Sportcsarnok was attended by 4000 people, his teaching at Corvinus University of Budapest was also great success amongst the students. His Holiness also travelled to Tar village to give his blessings to a newly built 13-meter-high stupa dedicated to the 150th anniversary of the death of Sándor Kőrösi Csoma. One year later the Dalai Lama consecrated the 36-meter-high stupa in Zalaszántó which became the highest such building in Europe. The Dalai Lama visited Hungary on 27 and 28 October 1996 and he met several politicians, religious leaders, scientists and artists. He signed the Proclamation of Planetary Mind. He gave a public speech in the Congressional Centre of Builders. In October 2000 the Dalai Lama was invited by Central European University and Tibetet Segítő Társaság. This time he met Viktor Orbán, prime minister of Hungary. First day he had a press conference and he introduced his new book in Libri Book Palace. The next two days he gave teaching and public speech in Budapest Sportcsarnok. On 14 October he met Asztrik Várszegi abbot of Pannonhalma Archabbey and he also gave a speech. In 2010 he gave a teaching for more than ten thousand people in Budapest. Gábor Demszky mayor of Budapest gave him Honorary citizenship of the city.\n\nThe first official broadcast of Buddha FM radio, the first Buddhist on-line radio channel of Hungary, was at 6 AM on 22 September 2014. Founders of the radio are all the Hungarian Buddhist communities, members, students, and teachers of the Dharma Gate Buddhist College.\n\nBuddhist communities in alphabetical order:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24432181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24432181", "title": "C. Bertrand Thompson", "text": "C. Bertrand Thompson\n\nClarence Bertrand Thompson (1882 - 1969) was an American business academic, chemist, business consultant and Unitarian minister. He was the first African-American graduate of the University of Southern California Law School, known for his work on scientific management. Thompson was the brother of Black newspaperman Noah Davis Thompson whose wife was Eloise Bibb Thompson. Thompson was also the uncle of Anita Thompson Dickinson Reynolds.\n\nThompson was born in Denver, where his father, a former Union Navy soldier, worked as jeweler. At the age of 8 his parents got divorced, and he moved with his mother, the daughter of an escaped slave, to Los Angeles. He studied law at the University of Southern California, attending a law degree at the age of 18.\n\nAfter graduation in 1900 Thompson in Los Angeles joined an independent liberal congregation, called The Fellowship, where he became assistant minister in 1905. That year he moved to Massachusetts, where he served as minister of the Unitarian Church of Peabody, and started his studies at Harvard. In 1906 he obtained his BA in law, and in 1907 his MA in sociology and economics in 1907.\nIn 1908 he resigned from the Unitarian Church, and started working at the Boston Chamber of Commerce, where he was introduced by Edward Filene. He was an early proponent of the techniques developed by Frederick Winslow Taylor. In 1910 Harvard opened a new Business School, where he was appointed lecturer on manufacturing. He became a proponent of scientific management, and started working as business consultant. With the death of Taylor in 1914 Thompson became one of the best known speakers on Taylors methods.\n\nIn 1940 Thompson put an end to his business career, and started to study biochemistry at Harvard and Berkeley. Until his retirement he was researcher in cellular biochemistry at Berkeley. He died at the age of 87 in Montevideo, Uruguay.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27030606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27030606", "title": "DALT", "text": "DALT\n\n\"N\",\"N\"-Diallyltryptamine (DALT) is a tryptamine derivative. It has been used as an intermediate in the preparation of radiolabeled diethyltryptamine.\n\n"}
{"id": "54126521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54126521", "title": "Diocese of Armavir", "text": "Diocese of Armavir\n\nDiocese of Armavir ( \"Armaviri t'em\"), is a diocese of the Armenian Apostolic Church covering the Armavir Province of Armenia. The name is derived from the historic city of Armavir which served as the capital of the ancient Kingdom of Armenia between 331 and 210 BC. \n\nThe diocese was officially founded on May 30, 1996, by Catholicos Karekin I. The seat of the diocese is the Cathedral of Saint Gregory of Narek in the town of Armavir. Bishop Sion Adamyan is currently the primate of the diocese, serving since 2001.\n\nBeing home to many of the most important churches and monasteries of the Armenian Apostolic Church, the territory of Armavir has been the spiritual centre of the Armenian nation. Throughout the history, the territory has been regulated by several dioceses of the Armenian Church, including the diocese of Amberd, Hovhannavank and Bjni.\n\nThe territory remained an active religious centre of the Armenian church with the inauguration of many churches and monastic complexes during the medieval period. During the 7th century, the churches of Saint Hripsime, Saint Gayane, Zvartnots and Targmanchats were built.\n\nAfter the independence of Armenia, the Diocese of Armavir was officially founded upon a \"kontakion\" issued by Catholicos Karekin I on May 30, 1996. The church of Holy Mother of God in Vagharshapat has served as the seat of the diocese until 2014, when it was moved to the newly-built Saint Gregory of Narek Church in the town of Armavir.\n\nCurrently, the diocese has 26 churches under its jurisdiction, while the Etchmiadzin Cathedral and the churches of Hripsime, Gayane, Shoghakat, and the Holy Archangels are under the direct regulation of the Mother See.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5194532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5194532", "title": "Earthseed", "text": "Earthseed\n\nEarthseed is a religion based on the idea that \"God is Change.\" It is the creation of Octavia E. Butler, as revealed by her character Lauren Oya Olamina in the books: \"Parable of the Sower\" and \"Parable of the Talents\". (A third book of the trilogy, \"Parable of the Trickster\", was not completed before Butler's death.)\n\n\"Parable of the Sower\" is a futuristic, dystopian, science-fiction novel. In its reality, the United States has devolved into states and/or city-states warring for the few remaining resources. Life is cheap, and the economy is becoming reborn as company towns.\n\nThe main character in \"Parable of the Sower\", Lauren Olamina, is the daughter of a Baptist minister who serves their walled-in neighborhood. Because of her mother's addiction to a prescription drug, Olamina suffers from \"hyperempathy\", which causes her to share pain or perceived pain with any living creature she sees. When her community is attacked, burned, and looted, seventeen-year-old Olamina barely escapes with her life. She travels, at great danger, into northern California in search of a haven where she and others can build the first Earthseed community.\n\nThe beliefs of Earthseed are recorded in the fictional book \"Earthseed: The Books of the Living\". Olamina \"writes\" in short, poetic passages. Portions of this text are presented at the beginning of each section, some chapters, and occasionally throughout the text. The philosophy of Earthseed also underlies the motivations of some of the characters in these novels.\n\nThe word \"Earthseed\" comes from the idea that the seeds of all life on Earth can be transplanted, and through adaptation will grow, in many different types of situations or places. \"The Books of the Living\" is chosen in direct contrast to many other religions' use of the phrase \"The Books of the Dead\". Earthseed is a religion of the present and the future, of the living, not of the dead or the past.\n\nAlthough Olamina is raised as a Baptist, she does not feel comfortable with \"her father's God.\" Instead, she develops ideas that seem to better fit the reality she knows.\n\nBecause \"God is Change\", humans are able to direct God's malleability. Believers are enjoined to \"shape God\". By shaping themselves, they can save themselves. Believers are to accept the central tenet that \"God is Change\" primarily so that they will recognize their own power to affect and direct Change/God. Only by conscious effort can they avoid being God's victims.\n\nEarthseed also promotes the belief that \"The Destiny of Earthseed / Is to take root among the stars\" (\"The Parable of the Sower\", Octavia E. Butler). The Destiny is necessary because, eventually, we will outgrow Earth (i.e., use up its natural resources).\n\nThe central verse of Earthseed is given in the following:\n\nThe central paradox of Earthseed is:\n\nWhile the religion began as fiction, it has inspired several real-world movements.\n\nThe Terasem Movement seeks the development of humanity through technology, and to bridge the gap between science and religion. \"Terasem\" comes from the Latin \"Terra\" ('earth') and \"sēmen\" ('seed'). Like the fictional Earthseed, Terasem Movement attempts to \"shape God\", but through technology.\n\nThere is also a humanistic pagan website called Earthseed, and a social movement named SolSeed.\n\n"}
{"id": "25296983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25296983", "title": "Eli Jaxon-Bear", "text": "Eli Jaxon-Bear\n\nEli Jaxon-Bear (born Elliot J. Zeldow in 1947) is an American spiritual teacher and author. He lives in Ashland, Oregon with his wife, fellow spiritual teacher Gangaji. Before he met his teacher, Sri H.W.L. Poonja, in 1990, he was best known for his work on the spiritual dimension of the Enneagram. Following his meeting with Poonjaji he continued to teach, carrying his teacher's message to the West.\n\nJaxon-Bear was born in Brooklyn, New York. He attended the University of Pittsburgh, graduating in 1968. In 1965 he was part of a group of students who went to Montgomery, Alabama to take part in the civil rights marches. Later he wrote of this experience, \"Getting on the bus represented a much deeper commitment than simply enduring a few weeks of dangerous adventure. Finally, I had to give my life fully to getting on the bus for freedom without a thought of getting off.\" After graduating he became a community organizer in Chicago and Detroit. Freedom of Information documents show that the FBI began a file on Jaxon-Bear after his arrest during the Democratic Convention in the summer of 1968. After six months of working in a steel mill in Homestead, Pennsylvania, he was awarded a fellowship for a doctorate at the Graduate School for International Studies at the University of Denver. He was part of the student strike committee that shut down the university in 1970.\n\nJaxon-Bear's eighteen-year spiritual path began after the 1971 May Day Protests, when he became a federal fugitive during the Vietnam War. As he described, \"I was brought face-to-face with death. Through grace, I passed to the other side: I awoke to the truth of my own nature as empty, immortal consciousness.\" This experience led him on a spiritual search that took him around the world and into many traditions and practices. In 1978, Kalu Rinpoche appointed him the president of Kagyu Minjur Choling, the first Kagyu Tibetan Buddhist dharma center in Marin County. In 1982, he was presented with a Zen Teaching Fan at Cho Sho-ji Zen Temple in Beppu, Japan. Through the 1980s, Jaxon-Bear ran a Clinical Hypnosis and Neurolinguistics certification program at the Esalen Institute. Also during that time, he studied the ancient Sufi wisdom teachings of the Enneagram. His first writings and teachings on the Enneagram emerged in 1989. He was a keynote speaker at the first International Enneagram Conference at Stanford University in August, 1994. His talk was entitled \"The Enneagram and Self-Realization\".\n\nIn 1990 in India, Jaxon-Bear met the teacher Sri H.W.L. Poonja, who is called \"Papaji\" by his followers. A few months later, he took his wife, Antoinette Varner, to meet Papaji. She too became a devotee and Papaji named her Gangaji. Subsequent to the meeting with Papaji, both Jaxon-Bear and Gangaji were allowed to teach satsang in the West, and given conditional permission to publish \"Wake Up and Roar\".\n\nJaxon-Bear's teaching focuses on the nature of egoic suffering in support of self-realization. Today, Jaxon-Bear offers the living transmission of silence received from his teacher Papaji. He also helps students address egoic identification using the Enneagram as a vehicle for self-inquiry and realization of true freedom. What Papaji called \"stopping the mind,\" Jaxon-Bear called \"ending the fixation.\" He wrote, \"The great gift of the Enneagram is that it describes who you are not. It shows the veiling of pure, pristine consciousness by habits of egoic identification.\"\n\nIn 1990, Jaxon-Bear established the Pacific Center Press to publish books and videos. Volume One of \"Wake Up and Roar\", a compilation of spiritual dialogues with Papaji edited by Jaxon-Bear, was published in 1992. The second volume of \"Wake Up and Roar\" followed in 1993. In 2001, he wrote \"From Fixation to Freedom: The Enneagram of Liberation\" to reflect the evolution of his teaching of the Enneagram in light of his teacher's transmission.\n\nIn 2004, Jaxon-Bear wrote \"Sudden Awakening Into Direct Realization\". \"In this book, I offer you the gift of awakening that was given to me by my teacher, Sri H.W. L. Poonja, a fully awakened satguru called Papaji. Awakening is real: it is actually the only reality. Awakening is permanent: it doesn't come and go.\"\n\nIn 2017, a new edition of Wake Up and Roar: Satsang with Papaji was released by New Morning Books.\n\nIn 2018, An Outlaw Makes It Home: The Awakening of a Spiritual Revolutionary was released by New Morning Books.\n\nJaxon-Bear established the Leela Foundation, a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization. The organization offers events, books, videos, audios, and outreach programs dedicated to world peace and freedom through universal self-realization. Jaxon-Bear holds public meetings and retreats in the US, Europe and Australia.\n\nIn 1975, Jaxon-Bear met his life-partner, Antoinette Roberson Varner (born Merle Antoinette (\"Toni\") Roberson) in Berkeley, California. They spent their first five years together living on a small farm in Bolinas, California. In 1989, they were married in a cave in Haleakala Crater on Maui.\n\nIn October 2005, Jaxon-Bear admitted to his wife Gangaji that he had recently ended a three-year affair with an adult female student who was at the time employed as the executive director of his organization, the Leela Foundation. After a brief separation, Jaxon-Bear and Gangaji reconciled in December 2005. In October 2006, he disclosed the extramarital relationship to the Gangaji Foundation board of directors and staff. Subsequently the executive director and board of foundation issued an open letter stating, \"What was initially seen as a matter between two adults is now recognized to be a betrayal of the teacher/student relationship and an abuse of power\". The letter added: \n\nThe repercussions of this betrayal are reverberating in ways that were never imagined, but are very painful. The deepest truths do not excuse or justify our failures and betrayals as human beings. Gratefully though, without minimizing or spiritualizing the damage done, love remains and sustains all. It is only in love that we can truly meet the pain that comes with being human. Ever more so, we can commit ourselves to the compassion that love provides and to tell the truth more clearly and honestly to others and ourselves.\n\nFollowing the disclosure, Jaxon-Bear publicly apologized for the pain he had caused his wife, the woman he became involved with, and his community. At that time, Jaxon-Bear resigned from teaching. He and Gangaji held open meetings to heal the wounds experienced in their spiritual community, as well as holding retreats on the subjects of disillusionment, betrayal and relationship.\n\nSubsequently, in an interview with Bertrand Coquoz of \"Wegweiser Magazin\" in Germany, Jaxon-Bear said of his affair, \"My worst mistake thus far in this flawed life was allowing myself to be in an intimate relationship with two women at the same time. They were the two loves of my life and they both loved me deeply and truly. But it was an impossible situation for all three of us. I caused suffering to the two people that I loved most deeply. That first mistake led to my lying about my affair. This was a great mistake. I had never lied to my partner over our thirty years together and it was a terrible mistake. It was shocking to see that I was capable of this. Bearing having caused suffering and falling into the trap of lying was the greatest pain that I have ever experienced in my life. It burned a holy fire in a place that had not yet burned. As I tried to satisfy my obligations to both my partner and my lover I continued to make many mistakes.\"\n\nIn 2007, after suffering severe bone pain, Jaxon-Bear was diagnosed with last stage multiple myeloma, a severe form of blood cancer that attacks the bones. He underwent surgery for multiple fractures of his spine and participated in an experimental treatment protocol that included tandem stem cell transplants at the Myeloma Institute in Little Rock, Arkansas. He continues with maintenance level chemotherapy. In January 2008, Jaxon-Bear reestablished the Leela Foundation and returned to teaching.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "311846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=311846", "title": "Eparchy", "text": "Eparchy\n\nEparchy is an anglicized Greek word (), authentically Latinized as eparchia, which can be loosely translated as the rule or jurisdiction over something, such as a province, prefecture, or territory. It has specific meanings both in politics, history and in the hierarchy of the Eastern Christian churches.\n\nIn secular use, the word eparchy denotes an administrative district in the Roman / Byzantine Empire, or in modern Greece or Cyprus.\n\nIn ecclesiastical use, an eparchy is a territorial diocese governed by a bishop of one of the Eastern churches, who holds the title of eparch. It is part of a metropolis. Each eparchy is divided into parishes in the same manner as a diocese of western Christendom. In the Catholic Church, an archieparchy equivalent to an archdiocese of the Roman Rite and its bishop is an archieparch, equivalent to an archbishop of the Roman Rite.\n\nOriginally eparchy (ἐπαρχίᾱ, \"eparchia\") was the Greek equivalent of the Latin term \"provincia\", one of the districts of the Roman Empire. As such it was used, chiefly in the eastern parts of the Empire, to designate the Roman provinces. The term eparch (, \"eparchos\") however, designating an eparchy's governor, was most usually used to refer to the praetorian prefects (singular in Greek: , \"eparch of the praetorium\") in charge of the Empire's praetorian prefectures, and to the Eparch of Constantinople, the city's urban prefect. \n\nThe Dominate-period administrative system was retained In the Byzantine period of the Empire until the 7th century. As Greek became the Empire's main administrative language, replacing Latin, in the latter 6th century even the provinces of the Exarchate of Ravenna, in reconquered Italy, were termed \"eparchiae\" in Greek as well as in Latin.\n\nIn the latter half of the 7th century, the old provincial administration was replaced by the thematic system. Even after that however, the term \"eparchos\" remained in use until the 840s for the senior administrative official of each \"thema\", under the governing \"strategos\". Thereafter, eparchs are evident in some cases as city governors, but the most important by far amongst them was the Eparch of Constantinople, whose office had wide-ranging powers and functioned continuously until the 13th century.\n\nThe term \"eparchia\" was revived as one of the administrative sub-provincial units of post-Ottoman independent Greece, the country being divided into \"nomoi\" (\"Prefectures\"), of which in turn some were subdivided into \"eparchies\". From 1887, the \"eparchies\" were abolished as actual administrative units, but were retained for some state services, especially finance services and education, as well as for electoral purposes. Before the Second World War, there were 139 \"eparchies\", and after the war, with the addition of the Dodecanese Islands, their number grew to 147. The provinces were abolished in the mainland (but retained for the islands), in the wide-ranging administrative reform implemented in 1997 (the \"Kapodistrias Project\") and replaced by enlarged municipalities (\"demoi\").\n\nIn Cyprus, the term \"eparchia\" is used to refer to the Districts of Cyprus.\n\nThe Christian Church (before the split into Roman Catholic and Eastern Orthodox) adopted elements of political, administrative system of the late Roman Empire, as introduced by the reforms of Diocletian (284-305). Adopted elements included both organizational structure and terminology.\n\nNotwithstanding the primacies of the Apostolic Sees of Rome, Alexandria and Antioch, the bishoprics of each civil province were grouped in one ecclesiastical province, also called eparchy, under the supervision of the metropolitan, usually the bishop of the provincial capital. The First Council of Nicaea in 325 accepted this arrangement and orders that: \"the authority [of appointing bishops] shall belong to the metropolitan in each eparchy\" (can. iv), i.e., in each such civil eparchy (province) there shall be a metropolitan bishop who has authority over the others.\n\nSince the use of the term eparchy was originally linked to metropolitan rights, later in Eastern Christianity, after a process of title-inflation and multiplying the numbers of metropolitans by elevating local bishops to honorary metropolitan rank without giving them any real metropolitan powers, the use of the word \"eparchy\" was gradually modified and came to refer to dioceses of such \"metropolitan\" bishops, and later to dioceses in general. This process was initially promoted in the Ecumenical Patriarchate of Constantinople, and later the new usage of term \"eparchy\" became prevalent in the Eastern Orthodox Church, the ancient Oriental Churches, and the Eastern Catholic Churches.\n\nIn the Eastern Orthodox Church, the name eparchy is not commonly used as the usual term for a diocese except in the Bulgarian, Czechoslovak, Russian, and Serbian Orthodox Churches. The Russian Orthodox Church in the early 20th century counted 86 eparchies, of which three (Kiev, Moscow, and St. Petersburg) were ruled by bishops who always bore the title \"Metropolitan.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36680050", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36680050", "title": "Erich Šlomović", "text": "Erich Šlomović\n\nErich Šlomović (, also known as Erich Chlomovitch) (1915–1942) was a Jewish art collector in the Kingdom of Yugoslavia. He was an assistant and protégé of Ambroise Vollard.\n\nŠlomović was born in Đakovo (Austro-Hungarian Empire) in 1915 to a Jewish family of Bernard and Roza Šlomović. He had a brother, Egon.\n\nIn the 1930s, Šlomović moved to Paris, where he was befriended by legendary art collector Ambroise Vollard. Through Vollard, Šlomović met the greatest artists of the age, including Picasso, Matisse, Cocteau, Rouault among others, and was able to amass an impressive personal collection of some 600 works. Vollard died in a car accident in July 1939. Shortly after that, with France on the brink of Nazi invasion, Šlomović decided to return to Yugoslavia, where the war had not yet spread. He left about 200 artworks in a vault in the Société Générale in Paris, and the rest he had shipped via diplomatic pouch to Belgrade. These were exhibited at a highly acclaimed exhibition in Zagreb in 1940.\n\nDuring World War II, with the Independent State of Croatia establishment in 1941, Šlomović and his family moved to Bačina in Serbia in an attempt to save themselves.\nWhile in Bačina, Šlomović hid the paintings he brought with him. Later, as a part of the German reprisals of 100 Serbian men shot for every German soldier killed, Bernard, Erich and Egon were taken to detention camp in Ćuprija. Soon after, they were all killed. Erich's mother Rosa and female cousin Mara were not touched and neither was his collection. They both survived the Holocaust hidden by the local population.\n\nAfter his death, Šlomović mother donated his collection to the National Museum of Serbia. In 1989 Veljko Bulajić directed \"Donator\", a movie dedicated to Šlomović's tragic life while in 2004 Momo Kapor wrote a book about his life. The paintings in the Société Generale bank were discovered in 1979 when the bank was allowed to open the vault to recover unpaid storage fees. There is a legal dispute over the ownership of those paintings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21479291", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21479291", "title": "Ezekiel's Vision (Raphael)", "text": "Ezekiel's Vision (Raphael)\n\nEzekiel's Vision is a c. 1518 painting by Raphael showing the prophet Ezekiel's vision of God in majesty. It is housed in the Palatine Gallery of Palazzo Pitti, Florence, central Italy.\n\nThe work is remembered by Renaissance art biographer Giorgio Vasari as property of a Bolognese nobleman, Vincenzo Ercolani. There is trace of payment by him to Raphael for 8 ducats in 1510, but this is generally considered just a down payment, since stylistically the work (inspired for example by Michelangelo's Sistine Chapel ceiling) cannot be dated before 1518.\n\nIn Florence since as early as 1589, it was ceded to Francesco I de' Medici and was placed at the Uffizi. The painting is known to be at Palazzo Pitti in 1697. In 1799 it was robbed by the French, who kept it in Paris until returning it back in 1816.\n\nThe work was once considered to be by the hand of Giulio Romano, with Raphael providing only the drawing. However, it has been subsequently assigned to Raphael.\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "1036108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1036108", "title": "Hadda, Afghanistan", "text": "Hadda, Afghanistan\n\nHaḍḍa () is a Greco-Buddhist archeological site located in the ancient region of Gandhara, ten kilometers south of the city of Jalalabad, in the Nangarhar Province of eastern Afghanistan.\n\nSome 23,000 Greco-Buddhist sculptures, both clay and plaster, were excavated in Hadda during the 1930s and the 1970s. The findings combine elements of Buddhism and Hellenism in an almost perfect Hellenistic style.\n\nAlthough the style of the artifacts is typical of the late Hellenistic 2nd or 1st century BCE, the Hadda sculptures are usually dated (although with some uncertainty), to the 1st century CE or later (i.e. one or two centuries afterward). This discrepancy might be explained by a preservation of late Hellenistic styles for a few centuries in this part of the world. However it is possible that the artifacts actually were produced in the late Hellenistic period.\n\nGiven the antiquity of these sculptures and a technical refinement indicative of artists fully conversant with all the aspects of Greek sculpture, it has been suggested that Greek communities were directly involved in these realizations, and that \"the area might be the cradle of incipient Buddhist sculpture in Indo-Greek style\".\n\nThe style of many of the works at Hadda is highly Hellenistic, and can be compared to sculptures found at the Temple of Apollo in Bassae, Greece.\n\nThe toponym Hadda has its origins in Sanskrit haḍḍa n. m., \"a bone\", or, an unrecorded *haḍḍaka, adj., \"(place) of bones\". The former - if not a fossilized form - would have given rise to a Haḍḍ in the subsequent vernaculars of northern India (and in the Old Indic loans in modern Pashto). The latter would have given rise to the form \"Haḍḍa\" naturally and would well reflect the belief that Hadda housed a bone-relic of Buddha. The term haḍḍa is found as a loan in Pashto haḍḍ, n., id. and may reflect the linguistic influence of the original pre-Islamic population of the area.\n\nA sculptural group excavated at the Hadda site of Tapa-i-Shotor represents Buddha surrounded by perfectly Hellenistic Herakles and Tyche holding a cornucopia. The only adaptation of the Greek iconography is that Herakles holds the thunderbolt of Vajrapani rather than his usual club.\n\nOther attendants to the Buddha have been excavated which display manifest Hellenistic styles, such as the \"Genie au Fleur\", today in Paris at the Guimet Museum.\n\nIt is believed the oldest surviving Buddhist manuscripts-indeed the oldest surviving Indian manuscripts of any kind-were recovered around Hadda. Probably dating from around the 1st century CE, they were written on bark in Gandhari using the Kharoṣṭhī script, and were unearthed in a clay pot bearing an inscription in the same language and script. They are part of the long-lost canon of the Sarvastivadin Sect that dominated Gandhara and was instrumental in Buddhism's spread into central and east Asia via the Silk Road. The manuscripts are now in the possession of the British Library.\n\nHadda is said to have been almost entirely destroyed in the fighting during the civil war in Afghanistan.\n\nThere were also many works of art lost as a result of the civil war. One of the worst of the casualties was the loss of two statues. The Red Mountain range in Bamiyan that once housed two giant statues of the Buddha, on cliff faces, besides smaller structures of archaeological significance. The two big statues, dating back to the 5th or 6th century CE, were the largest of all Buddhist statues so far attested in the world. Only remnants of these statues were left behind.\n\n"}
{"id": "4439660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4439660", "title": "History of Dianetics", "text": "History of Dianetics\n\nThe history of Dianetics possibly begins in the 1920s. Its originator L. Ron Hubbard claimed that his ideas of Dianetics originated in the 1920s and 1930s. By his own account, he spent a great deal of time in the Oak Knoll Naval Hospital's library, where he would have encountered the work of Freud and other psychoanalysts. In April 1950, Hubbard and several others established the Hubbard Dianetic Research Foundation in Elizabeth, New Jersey to coordinate work related for the forthcoming publication. Hubbard first introduced Dianetics to the public in the article \"\" published in the May 1950 issue of the magazine \"Astounding Science Fiction\". Hubbard wrote \"\" at that time, allegedly completing the 180,000-word book in six weeks.\n\nThe success of selling \"Dianetics: The Modern Science of Mental Health\" brought in a flood of money, which Hubbard used to establish Dianetics foundations in six major American cities. The scientific and medical communities were far less enthusiastic about Dianetics, viewing it with bemusement, concern, or outright derision. Complaints were made against local Dianetics practitioners for allegedly practicing medicine without a license. This eventually prompted Dianetics advocates to disclaim any medicinal benefits in order to avoid regulation.\n\nHubbard explained the backlash as a response from various entities trying to co-opt Dianetics for their own use. Hubbard blamed the hostile press coverage in particular on a plot by the American Communist Party. In later years, Hubbard decided that the psychiatric profession was the origin of all of the criticism of Dianetics, as he believed it secretly controlled most of the world's governments.\n\nBy the autumn of 1950, financial problems had developed, and by November 1950, the six Foundations had spent around one million dollars and were more than $200,000 in debt. Disagreements emerged over the direction of the Dianetic Foundation's work, and relations between the board members became strained, with several leaving, even to support causes critical of Dianetics. One example was Harvey Jackins, founder of Re-evaluation Counselling, originally a sort of discrete reworking of Dianetics, which L Ron Hubbard later declared suppressive to Scientology.\n\nIn January 1951, the New Jersey Board of Medical Examiners instituted proceedings against the Hubbard Dianetic Research Foundation in Elizabeth for teaching medicine without a licence. The Foundation closed its doors, causing the proceedings to be vacated, but its creditors began to demand settlement of its outstanding debts. Don Purcell, a millionaire Dianeticist from Wichita, Kansas, offered a brief respite from bankruptcy, but the Foundation's finances failed again in 1952.\n\nBecause of a sale of assets resulting from the bankruptcy, Hubbard no longer owned the rights to the name \"Dianetics\", but its philosophical framework still provided the seed for Scientology to grow. Scientologists refer to the book \"Dianetics: The Modern Science of Mental Health\" as \"Book One.\" In 1952, Hubbard published a new set of teachings as \"Scientology, a religious philosophy.\" Scientology did not replace Dianetics but extended it to cover new areas. Where the goal of Dianetics is to rid the individual of his reactive mind engrams, the stated goal of Scientology is to rehabilitate the individual's spiritual nature so that he may reach his full potential.\n\nIn 1978, Hubbard released \"New Era Dianetics\" (NED), a revised version supposed to produce better results in a shorter period of time. The course consists of 11 rundowns and requires a specifically trained auditor. It is run (processed) exactly like Standard Dianetics (once very widely practiced before the advent of NED) except the pre-clear (parishioner) is encouraged to find the \"postulate\" he made as a result of the incident. (\"Postulate\" in Dianetics and Scientology has the meaning of \"a conclusion, decision or resolution made by the individual himself; to conclude, decide or resolve a problem or to set a pattern for the future or to nullify a pattern of the past\" in contrast to its conventional meanings.)\n\nThe ideas of Dianetics originated in unpublished research L. Ron Hubbard supposedly performed in the 1920s and 1930s. He recorded the results and his conclusions in an unpublished 1938 manuscript, \"Excalibur\", the contents of which formed the basis for some of his later publications.\n\nAfter Hubbard's service in the United States Navy during World War II, he was admitted to the Oak Knoll Naval Hospital in Oakland, California. While there, he claimed to have carried out research into endocrinology \"to determine whether or not structure monitors function or function monitors structure ... using nothing but Freudian Psychoanalysis and using a park bench as a consulting room\", spending a great deal of time in the hospital's library, where he would have encountered the work of Sigmund Freud and other psychoanalysts.\n\nIn January 1949, Hubbard informed his literary agent, Forrest J. Ackerman, that he was writing a book on the \"cause and cure of nervous tension\", which he was going to call either \"The Dark Sword\" or \"Excalibur\" or \"Science of the Mind\", and assured Ackerman that the book had \"more selling and publicity angles than any book of which I have ever heard.\" In the same month, he told \"Writers' Markets and Methods\" magazine that he was working on a \"book of psychology\".\n\nIn April 1949, Hubbard told the Gerontological Society at Baltimore City Hospital that he was preparing a paper with the somewhat unwieldy title of \"Certain Discoveries and Researches Leading to the Removal of Early Traumatic Experiences Including Attempted Abortion, Birth Shock and Infant Illnesses and Accidents with an Examination of their Effects Physiological and Psychological and their Potential Influence on Longevity on the Adult Individual with an Account of the Techniques Evolved and Employed.\" Hubbard's letter was \"politely received\", but the Society apparently declined involvement. He also wrote to the American Medical Association and the American Psychiatric Association. These letters, and their responses, have not been published, though Hubbard later said that they had been negative.\n\nIn 1949, Hubbard told his friend John W. Campbell, the editor of \"Astounding Science Fiction\" magazine and publisher of many of Hubbard's short stories, about his work. Campbell had been one of Hubbard's early test subjects and believed that Hubbard's techniques had cured his persistent sinusitis, so he was an enthusiastic supporter. In a letter to one of \"Astounding's\" contributors, Jack Williamson, he wrote: \"I know dianetics is one of, if not the greatest, discovery of all Man's written and unwritten history. It produces the sort of stability and sanity men have dreamed about for centuries.\"\n\nIn July 1949, Campbell wrote to another contributor, Joseph A. Winter, a physician from Michigan. Winter was intrigued by Campbell's claims about Hubbard's work, but initially skeptical; Hubbard sent him what he called \"an operator's manual for your use\" which convinced Winter that Dianetics had some promise. Winter later wrote:\n\nIn October 1949, Winter, Hubbard, and Campbell met at Hubbard's home in Bay Head, New Jersey to continue work. Winter attempted to interest some medical colleagues and psychiatrists in Dianetics, with little success, and suggested to Hubbard that he publish an article to stimulate interest in his work. Perhaps mindful of the rejection of his earlier efforts, Hubbard told Winter that \"the articles you suggest would be more acceptable coming from another pen than mine.\" Accordingly, in late 1949, Winter wrote a paper \"giving a brief resumé of the principles and methodology of dianetic therapy\" which he submitted informally to an editor of the \"Journal of the American Medical Association\". However, the editor told Winter that \"the paper as written did not contain sufficient evidence of efficacy to be acceptable and was, moreover, better suited to one of the journals which dealt with psychotherapy.\" He revised the paper, added case histories provided by Hubbard, and submitted it to the \"American Journal of Psychiatry\", which rejected it on the same grounds.\n\nAccording to the Church of Scientology, Hubbard issued his early research in the form of a manuscript entitled \"Dianetics: The Original Thesis\" in 1948; Hubbard gives the year as 1949. It received a wider public release in 1951 and is now published as the book \"The Dynamics of Life\". The original text is not available for comparison with the 1951 publication, but it may have comprised the \"operator's manual\" written by Hubbard for Winter, which is the first independently attested codification of Dianetics.\n\nAt the end of 1949, Hubbard and Campbell agreed to announce Dianetics in the upcoming May issue of \"Astounding\", to be followed by a full-length book. Campbell arranged for Hermitage House, a small New York City medical and psychiatric textbook publisher, to publish the book. Hubbard also published an article in \"The Explorers Journal\" called \"Terra Incognita: The Mind.\" Dianetics was not quite finished at this stage; engrams were called \"comanomes\", a neologism proposed by Winter that was later abandoned.\n\nIn April 1950, Hubbard, Campbell, Winter and several others established a Hubbard Dianetic Research Foundation in Elizabeth, New Jersey to coordinate work related to the forthcoming publication. Hubbard wrote \"\" at that time, allegedly completing the 180,000-word book in six weeks. This work was published on 9 May 1950 and quickly sold out its first run of 8,000 copies. Only two months after the book's publication, \"Newsweek\" reported that over 55,000 copies had been sold and enthusiasts had established 500 Dianetics clubs across the United States. In July, TIME reported that it was climbing the U.S. bestseller lists. Campbell reported in the August 1950 \"Astounding\" that the magazine was receiving up to a thousand letters a week about Dianetics. Sales reached 150,000 copies by the end of the year.\n\nCampbell's endorsement had proven invaluable; \"Astounding Science Fiction\" had over 150,000 readers, many of whom were familiar with Hubbard's science fiction and had a strong interest in new scientific discoveries. Among the wider population, Dianetics gained popularity as a cheaper, simpler and apparently more effective means of self-improvement than conventional psychotherapies. Hubbard's optimistic view that Dianetics could alleviate the Cold War climate of tension and fear also struck a chord. One of his supporters, Frederick L. Schuman, wrote in a letter to the \"New York Times\" that \"History has become a race between Dianetics and catastrophe\".\n\nThe success of Dianetics brought in a flood of money. Hubbard offered teaching courses for Dianetic \"auditors\" through the Hubbard Dianetic Research Foundation, costing $500 per person for four to six weeks of instruction and thirty-six hours of Dianetic therapy. Hubbard recruited his friend and fellow science fiction writer A. E. van Vogt to act as the Foundation's treasurer, and five other Foundations were soon established in Washington, DC, New York City, Chicago, Los Angeles and Honolulu. The Foundation's Los Angeles property alone was valued at $4.5 million.\n\nThe scientific and medical communities were far less enthusiastic about Dianetics, viewing it with bemusement, concern, or outright derision. Nobel Prize–winning physicist I.I. Rabi, reviewing \"Dianetics\" for \"Scientific American\", declared that \"this volume probably contains more promises and less evidence per page than has any publication since the invention of printing.\" He noted that the publication of \"Dianetics\" had coincided with that of \"Worlds in Collision\", a notorious work of pseudoscience by Immanuel Velikovsky, with which \"Dianetics\" shared the top of the best-seller lists. This, Rabi said, illustrated \"the most frightening proof of the confusion of the contemporary mind and its tendency to fall prey to pseudo-scientific concepts.\"\n\n\"The Nation\" pointed out the lack of documentation in \"Dianetics\": \"No case histories are offered to substantiate his claims, nor is there documentation of any kind to indicate that any previous thinker, medical or otherwise, ever made a significant contribution to the subject of human behavior.\" The \"Individual Psychology Bulletin\" also criticized Hubbard for \"not offer any other evidence than a vague reference to hundreds of cured patients, without furnishing case histories or other specific data. The book is crammed with bragging and swaggering, pseudoscientific bombast, platitudes and vulgarities, and a great deal of sheer nonsense.\" British health minister Kenneth Robinson, among others, expressed concern at the possible dangers of unskilled amateurs practicing therapy on patients, and skepticism about Hubbard's claims that Dianetics could be effective in dealing with illnesses.\n\nIn September 1950, the American Psychological Association issued a resolution calling on psychologists not to use Hubbard's methods for treatment purposes unless and until they had been shown effective through scientific testing. Complaints were made against local Dianetics practitioners for allegedly practicing medicine without a license. This eventually prompted Dianetics advocates to disclaim any medicinal benefits in order to avoid regulation.\n\nHubbard explained the backlash as a response from various entities trying to co-opt Dianetics for their own use. He claimed that \"just about the time hit the stands\" (i.e. April–May 1950), a \"very high-ranking officer\" of the US Navy had approached him to sound him out about \"using what you know about the mind to make people more suggestible.\" Hubbard apparently avoided this by resigning from the Navy. He also told the FBI in a 1952 interview that \"the Soviets apparently realized the value of Dianetics because as early as 1938 an official of Amtorg , while at The Explorers Club in New York, contacted him to suggest that he go to Russia and develop Dianetics there.\" The FBI agent conducting the interview was not convinced, describing Hubbard as \"a mental case\".\n\nHubbard blamed the hostile press coverage in particular on a plot by the American Communist Party, working through the Authors League of America. According to Hubbard,\n\nIn later years, Hubbard decided that the psychiatric profession was the origin of all of the criticism of Dianetics, as he believed it secretly controlled most of the world's governments. Current church head David Miscavige has also propagated this theory:\n\nBy the autumn of 1950, financial problems had developed. Book sales, lectures and auditor training still generated revenue, but financial controls were lax; Hubbard described the situation as \"something on the accounting system of dumping it all in a barrel outside the door and hauling the barrel down to a bank every once in a while...\" Hubbard's treasurer, A. E. van Vogt, said that Hubbard personally withdrew large sums from Foundation accounts, apparently without any prior notice or explanation of his purpose; van Vogt calculated that, by November 1950 the six Foundations had spent around one million dollars and were more than $200,000 in debt.\n\nMatters were not improved by Hubbard's experiments with a cocktail of benzedrine, vitamins and glutamic acid, called GUK after the rifle cleaning fluid used by the US Marine Corps, which he believed would provide a chemical alternative to auditing. The Foundation purchased a 110-room building in Los Angeles for the project, but Winter writes that it proved a \"dismal, expensive failure.\"\n\nDisagreements emerged over the direction of the Dianetic Foundation's work, and relations between the board members became strained. Hubbard's interest in past lives was a particular cause of tension, as he noted in his 1951 book \"Science of Survival\":\n\nWinter recorded his dissatisfaction with the state of affairs, believing that \"Foundation dianetics was becoming crystallized, ritualistic and sterile\", characterized by a \"none-too-subtle antagonism towards the medical profession in general and the psychiatric field in particular.\" He commented that \"any attempts to force the medical profession to accept it solely on the basis of the affirmation, \"It works!\" and deriding those who request more conclusive proof, is more than likely to jeopardize whatever possible benefits there might be.\" Having failed to steer the Foundation onto \"a more reasoned and conservative basis\", he resigned in October 1950. Art Ceppos, the publisher of \"Dianetics\", also resigned at this time, cutting off the Foundation's supply of books; he went on to publish Winter's critical book on Dianetics.\n\nJohn W. Campbell became dissatisfied as well, accusing Hubbard of \"dogmatism and authoritarianism\" after the latter insisted that only the Hubbard-approved \"Standard Procedure\" of Dianetics be used and condemned all other methods as dangerous \"Black Dianetics\". This was a departure from Hubbard's previously liberal outlook, when he had rejected any attempt to monopolise Dianetics. Campbell resigned from the board in March 1951; although he remained interested in Dianetics for several years afterwards, he eventually moved on to other causes.\n\nThe most serious breach occurred with Hubbard's wife Sara, the Foundation's librarian and formerly his personal auditor and research subject. According to Barbara Klowdan, his public relations assistant, both had had affairs—Sara with Miles Hollister, a Dianetics instructor in Los Angeles, and Hubbard with Klowdan herself. Sara was suspended from the Foundation's board of directors and her official post. She filed divorce papers in March 1951, and her claims of \"systematic torture\" allegedly suffered at Hubbard's hands attracted widespread media attention. A few weeks later, Hubbard told the FBI that Sara had tried to kill him: \"I was knocked out, had a needle thrust into my heart to give it a jet of air to produce \"coronary thrombosis\" and was given an electric shock with a 110 volt current.\" Hubbard later characterized the suit as \"a gal I wasn't even married to was suing me for divorce.\"\n\nHubbard appears to have believed that his organization was under sustained attack from Communist interests. From March 2, 1951, all employees of the Dianetic Foundations were \"requested to sign a strong oath of loyalty to the U.S. government, a denial of Communism and that their fingerprints be taken and forwarded to the F.B.I.\" Those who had left the organization, he claimed, were Communist agents; he called Winter a \"psycho-neurotic discharged officer of the US Army Medical Corps... Winter seemed to have Communist connections.\" In one letter to the FBI, he claimed that Ceppos was \"connected with Communists\" and had tried to obtain the Foundation's mailing list of sixteen thousand names for purposes of distributing Communist literature: in another, he denounced Sara Hubbard and Miles Hollister as \"Communist Party members or suspects\", describing Hollister as having a \"broad forehead, rather Slavic.\" He complained that \"the Communist Party or members of the Communist Party have in the past year wiped out a half a million operation for me, have cost me my health and have considerably retarded material of interest to the United States Government.\"\n\nIn January 1951, the New Jersey Board of Medical Examiners instituted proceedings against the Hubbard Dianetic Research Foundation in Elizabeth for teaching medicine without a licence. The Foundation closed its doors, causing the proceedings to be vacated, but its creditors began to demand settlement of its outstanding debts.\n\nA temporary respite from financial difficulties was provided in April 1951 by Don Purcell, a millionaire Dianeticist from Wichita, Kansas. Purcell bankrolled a new Hubbard Dianetic Research Foundation in Wichita and paid to print a new edition of \"Dianetics\", along with several new Dianetics books -- \"Self Analysis\", \"Science of Survival\", \"Notes on the Lectures\", \"Advanced Procedure and Axioms\" and \"Child Dianetics\"—and a range of other Dianetics pamphlets and publications.\n\nThe new Foundation soon found itself pursued by creditors, however, as the other Foundations collapsed under the weight of unpaid debts. The income of the Wichita Foundation was far more modest than the earlier Foundations had enjoyed, as public interest in Dianetics had waned. Only 112 people attended the first major conference held at Wichita, and only 51 students attended a subsequent lecture series in October 1951. Science writer Martin Gardner observed that \"the dianetics craze seems to have burned itself out as quickly as it caught fire\".\n\nIn 1952, creditors forced the Wichita Foundation into bankruptcy. Hubbard sold his holdings to Purcell for a nominal sum and established a \"Hubbard College\" on the other side of Wichita, leaving Purcell to sort out the bankruptcy proceedings. The remaining assets of the Foundation, comprising the copyright of all the tapes, books, techniques, processes and paraphernalia of Dianetics, including the name, went to the auction block; Purcell bought them outright, but Hubbard's financial straits were not improved. One of his staff, James Elliot, sent out an appeal on his behalf: \"Somehow Mr. Hubbard must get funds to keep Dianetics from being closed down everywhere. ... He is penniless\", and wrote of Hubbard's wish to establish a \"free school in Phoenix for the rehabilitation of auditors.\" This school was launched around April 1952 as the Hubbard Association of Scientologists; he could not use the name \"Dianetics\", as he no longer owned it.\n\nIn May 1952, Purcell's Foundation sent its members a set of accounts showing that it had earned $141,821 but was overspent by $63,222. Hubbard responded angrily, alleging that the American Medical Association had paid Purcell $500,000 to wreck Dianetics. He later claimed that the Communist Party had paid Purcell \"to do in a Central Organization\". On December 16, 1952, Hubbard was arrested in the middle of a lecture for failing to return $9,000 withdrawn from the Wichita Foundation. He eventually settled the debt by paying $1,000 and returning a car that he had borrowed from Purcell. Purcell finally tired of pursuing Hubbard over the bankruptcy and handed back the Dianetics copyrights in 1954.\n\nDianetics provided the seed from which the philosophical framework of Scientology grew. Scientologists refer to the book \"Dianetics: The Modern Science of Mental Health\" as \"Book One\". Hubbard created his own calendar based on the publication date of \"Dianetics\"; a date of \"A.D. 13\" signifies \"Year 13 After Dianetics\", or 1963.\n\nIn 1952, Hubbard published a new set of teachings as \"Scientology, a religious philosophy\". Scientology did not replace Dianetics but extended it to cover new areas, augmenting the Dianetic axioms with new, additional, Scientology axioms. Where the goal of Dianetics is to rid the individual of his reactive mind engrams, the stated goal of Scientology is to rehabilitate the individual's spiritual nature so that he may reach his full potential.\n\nIn 1975, \"Dianetics Today\" was published, an all-inclusive volume of over 1000 pages. The book introduced the use of the E-Meter, the Original Assessment or standardized interview and a rote routine (Referred to as \"R3R\") for the application of Dianetics. This was known as Standard Dianetics.\n\nIn 1978, Hubbard released \"New Era Dianetics\", a revised version supposed to produce better results in a shorter period of time; \"Preclears who might have needed over 2,000 hours of auditing to achieve the highest results obtainable from 1950 technology might now achieve comparable gains in a tenth of that time with modern Dianetics and Scientology auditing.\" The Church of Scientology practices and disseminates both the original Dianetics and New Era Dianetics, and views Dianetics as an introduction to Scientology. As of 2001, the Church of Scientology continued to run television advertisements promoting \"Dianetics: The Modern Science of Mental Health\". In spite of this, an analysis of the approximate annual sales of Dianetics that was based on the Church's published data indicated that 2002 sales of Dianetics were similar to sales levels of the book in the early 1970s, and sales of the book reached its peak in the late 1980s. Perhaps indicative of the reason for that peak, \"Time Magazine\", in 1991, alleged that the Church asked its members to purchase large quantities of the book with their own money, or with money supplied by the Church, for the sole purpose of keeping the book on the New York Times Best Seller list.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2278852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2278852", "title": "Inipi", "text": "Inipi\n\nThe I-ni-pi ceremony (lakota: \"ini-\" from \"inyan\", rock + \"-pi\", lodge), a type of sweat lodge, is a Lakota purification ceremony, and one of the Seven Sacred Rites of the Lakota people. It is an ancient and sacred ceremony of the Lakota people and has been passed down through the generations of Lakota.\n\nThe full ceremony is not taught to non-Lakotas, but in rough detail it involves an \"I-ni-pi\" lodge - a frame of saplings covered with hides or blankets. Stones are heated in a fire, then placed into a central pit in the lodge. Water is then poured on the stones to create hot steam. Traditional prayers and songs are offered in the Lakota language.\n\nThose who have inherited and maintained these traditions have issued statements about the standards to be observed in the \"I-ni-pi\". In the March 2003 meeting it was agreed among the spiritual leaders and Bundle Keepers of the Lakota, Dakota, Nakota, Cheyenne and Arapahoe Nations that:\n\nI-ni-pi (Purification Ceremony): Those that run this sacred rite should be able to communicate with Tun-ca-s'i-la (our Sacred Grandfathers) in their Native Plains tongue. They should also have earned this rite by completing Han-ble-c'i-ya and the four days and four years of the Wi-wanyang wa-c'i-pi.\n\nThis also follows upon the decisions made at the Lakota Summit V, an international gathering of US and Canadian Lakota, Dakota and Nakota Nations, where about 500 representatives from 40 different tribes and bands of the Lakota unanimously passed a \"Declaration of War Against Exploiters of Lakota Spirituality.\" The declaration was unanimously passed on June 10, 1993. Among other things, it specifies that these ceremonies are only for those of the Lakota, Dakota and Nakota Nations.\n\nOne concern about outsiders trying to perform these ceremonies is that, not only does it go against the express wishes of the traditional healers who have inherited these ceremonies, but that those who do not know how to do them properly have in some cases caused dehydration and heat stroke, resulting in injury and even deaths.\n"}
{"id": "17544918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17544918", "title": "Isidorus", "text": "Isidorus\n\nIsidorus (born c. 139) was a native ancient Egyptian priest in the 2nd century during the Roman rule in Egypt. He led the native Egyptian revolt against Roman rule during the reign of emperor Marcus Aurelius.\n\nAccording to the Roman historian Dio Cassius, Isidorus surpassed all his contemporaries in bravery while leading the Egyptians in this revolt, most often called the Bucolic War. It broke out in 172–173 as a result of oppressive taxation in the Boucolia marshes of the Nile Delta. At first the Egyptians were successful, having defeated the Romans in a pitched battle. After this victory, they almost captured Alexandria, and probably would have taken the city if Avidius Cassius, the governor of Syria, had not been sent against them from the place he governed. Cassius did not dare to attack the rebels while they were united, knowing that they were too numerous and powerful to be defeated; however, he managed to destroy them by separating them from one another. Thus, the rebels were finally subdued only when they fell to quarreling.\n\nThe revolt had bad consequences for Egypt: it caused great damage to the Egyptian economy and marked the beginning of Egypt's economic decline.\n"}
{"id": "1402872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1402872", "title": "Jean Meslier", "text": "Jean Meslier\n\nJean Meslier (; also Mellier; 15 June 1664 – 17 June 1729), was a French Catholic priest (abbé) who was discovered, upon his death, to have written a book-length philosophical essay promoting atheism and materialism. Described by the author as his \"testament\" to his parishioners, the text criticizes and denounces all religions.\n\nJean Meslier was born in Mazerny in the Ardennes. He began learning Latin from a neighborhood priest in 1678 and eventually joined the seminary; he later claimed, in the Author's Preface to his \"Testament\", this was done to please his parents. At the end of his studies, he took Holy Orders and, on 7 January 1689, became priest at Étrépigny, in Champagne.\n\nOne public disagreement with a local nobleman aside, Meslier was to all appearances generally unremarkable, and he performed his office without complaint or problem for 40 years. He lived like a pauper, and every penny left over was donated to the poor.\n\nWhen Meslier died in Étrépigny, there were found in his house three copies of a 633-page octavo manuscript in which the village curate denounces organized religion as \"but a castle in the air\" and theology as \"but ignorance of natural causes reduced to a system\".\n\nIn his \"Testament\", Meslier repudiated not only the God of conventional Christianity, but even the generic God of the natural religion of the deists. For Meslier, the existence of evil was incompatible with the idea of a good and wise God. He denied that any spiritual value could be gained from suffering, and he used the deist's argument from design against god, by showing the evils that he had permitted in this world. To him, religions were fabrications fostered by ruling elites; although the earliest Christians had been exemplary in sharing their goods, Christianity had long since degenerated into encouraging the acceptance of suffering and submission to tyranny as practised by the kings of France: injustice was explained away as being the will of an all-wise Being. None of the arguments used by Meslier against the existence of God were original. In fact, he derived them from books written by orthodox theologians in the debate between the Jesuits, Cartesians, and Jansenists. Their inability to agree on a proof for God's existence was taken by Meslier as a good reason not to presume that there were compelling grounds for belief in God.\n\nMeslier's philosophy was that of an atheist. He also denied the existence of the soul and dismissed the notion of free will. In Chapter V, the priest writes, \"If God is incomprehensible to man, it would seem rational never to think of Him at all\". Meslier later describes God as \"a chimera\" and argues that the supposition of God is not prerequisite to morality. In fact, he concludes that \"[w]hether there exists a God or not [...] men's moral duties will always be the same so long as they possess their own nature\".\nIn his most famous quote, Meslier refers to a man who \"...wished that all the great men in the world and all the nobility could be hanged, and strangled with the guts of the priests.\" Meslier admits that the statement may seem crude and shocking, but comments that this is what the priests and nobility deserve, not for reasons of revenge or hatred, but for love of justice and truth.\n\nEqually well-known is the version by Diderot: \"And [with] the guts of the last priest let's strangle the neck of the last king.\" During the political unrest of May 1968, the radical students of the Sorbonne Occupation Committee paraphrased Meslier's epigram, stating that \"humanity won’t be happy till the last capitalist is hung with the guts of the last bureaucrat.\"\nMeslier also vehemently attacked social injustice and sketched out a kind of rural proto-communism. All the people in a region would belong to a commune in which wealth would be held in common, and everybody would work. Founded on love and brotherhood, the communes would ally to help each other and preserve peace.\n\nVarious edited abstracts (known as \"extraits\") of the \"Testament\" were printed and circulated, condensing the multi-volume original manuscript and sometimes adding material that was not written by Meslier. Abstracts were popular because of the length and convoluted style of the original.\n\nVoltaire often mentions Meslier (referring to him as \"a good priest\") in his correspondence, in which he tells his daughter to \"read and read again\" Meslier's only work, and says that \"every honest man should have Meslier's \"Testament\" in his pocket.\" However, he also described Meslier as writing \"in the style of a carriage-horse\".\n\nVoltaire published his own expurgated version as \"Extraits des sentiments de Jean Meslier\" (first edition, 1762). Voltaire's edition changed the thrust of Meslier's arguments (or drew on other Extraits which did this) so that he appeared to be a deist—like Voltaire—rather than an atheist.\n\nThe following passage is found at the end of Voltaire's \"Extrait\", and has been cited in support of the view that Meslier was not really an atheist. However, the passage does not appear in either the 1864 complete edition of the \"Testament\", published in Amsterdam by Rudolf Charles, or in the complete works of Meslier published 1970–1972.\n\nAnother book, \"Good Sense\" (), published anonymously in 1772, was long attributed to Meslier, but was in fact written by Baron d'Holbach.\n\nThe complete \"Testament\" of Meslier was published in English translation (by Michael Shreve) for the first time in 2009.\n\nIn his book \"In Defense of Atheism\" (2007) the atheist philosopher Michel Onfray describes Meslier as the first person to write an entire text in support of atheism:\n\nPrior to announcing Meslier as the first atheist philosopher, Onfray considers and dismisses Cristóvão Ferreira, a Portuguese and former Jesuit who renounced his faith under Japanese torture in 1633 and went on to write a book titled \"The Deception Revealed\". However, Onfray decides that Ferreira was not such a good candidate as Meslier, since Ferreira converted to Zen Buddhism.\n\nThe Situationist cultural theorist Raoul Vaneigem praised Meslier's resistance to hierarchical authority, claiming that \"the last full-fledged exemplars of priests genuinely loyal to the revolutionary origins of their religion were Jean Meslier and Jacques Roux fomenting jacquerie and riot\".\n\nAccording to Colin Brewer (2007), who co-produced a play about Meslier's life,\nHistorians argue about who was the first overt, post-Classical atheist but Meslier was arguably the first to put his name to an incontrovertibly atheist document. That this important event is largely unrecognised (Meslier was absent from both Richard Dawkins’ and Jonathan Miller's recent TV series on atheism) is due partly to Voltaire who published, in 1761, a grossly distorted \"Extract\" that portrayed Meslier as a fellow-deist and entirely suppressed Meslier's anti-monarchist, proto-communist opinions.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55847758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55847758", "title": "Journal of Moral Theology", "text": "Journal of Moral Theology\n\nThe Journal of Moral Theology is a journal that publishes peer-reviewed scholarly articles in the field of Roman Catholic moral theology. The journal is published semi-annually, with regular issues in January and June, that cover theological treatments of related topics in philosophy, economics, political philosophy, and psychology. Articles published in the journal undergo at least two double blind peer reviews before being selected for publication.\n\nThe journal was established by David Matzko McCarthy of Mount St. Mary's University, then the Fr. James M. Forker Professor of Catholic Social Teaching. He received considerable assistance from Joshua Hochschild, who was the Mount’s Dean of the College of Liberal Arts at that time, and from David Cloutier and William Mattison III, who edited the inaugural issue (January 2012). McCarthy’s work on the journal started in early in 2009, and by the end of the year, an intrepid editorial board was formed.\nThe initial board membership was constituted by Melanie Barrett, University of St. Mary of the Lake/Mundelein Seminary; Joseph Capizzi, The Catholic University of America; David Cloutier, The Catholic University of America; Kelly Johnson, University of Dayton; M. Therese Lysaught, Loyola University Chicago; Bryan Massingale, Fordham University; William C. Mattison III, University of Notre Dame; Jeanne Heffernan Schindler, John Paul II Institute; Christopher P. Vogt, St. John’s University. The affiliations noted are current (not 2012). David McCarthy is the Associate Provost at Mount St. Mary’s University.\n\nIn 2016, Jason King took on the role of associate editor, and in 2017, he became the editor. Dr. King is the chair of the Department of Theology, St. Vincent College, Latrobe, PA. The managing editor is Kathy Criasia, Dean's Assistant, the College of Liberal Arts, Mount St. Mary's University. William College is the associate editor; he is Emeritus Professor of Theology and Philosophy, Mount St. Mary's University. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "15562708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15562708", "title": "Kahn Singh Nabha", "text": "Kahn Singh Nabha\n\nBhai Kahn Singh Nabha (30 August 1861 – 24 November 1938) was a Punjabi Sikh lexicographer and encyclopedist. His most influential work, Mahan Kosh, inspired generations of scholars after him. He also played a role in the Singh Sabha movement.\n\nHe was born to Narain Singh and Har Kaur at the village of Sabaz Banera, located in what was then Patiala State. His father, Narain Singh succeeded to the charge of Gurdwara Dera Baba Ajaypal Singh at Nabha, after the death of his grandfather Sarup Singh in 1861. Kahn Singh was the eldest of three brothers (the other two being Meehan Singh and Bishan Singh) and one sister (Kahn Kaur).\n\nHe did not attend any school or college for formal education, but studied several branches of learning on his own. By the age of 10 he was able to quote freely from the Guru Granth Sahib and Dasam Granth. In Nabha, he studied sanskrit classics with local pandits and studied under the famous musicologist Mahant Gajja Singh. In Delhi, he studied persian with Mawlawis.\n\nIn 1883, he continued his study of persian for two years and assisted Bhai Gurmukh Singh, a leader in the Singh Sabha Movement, in publishing \"Sudhararak\". In 1887, he was appointed the tutor to Ripudaman Singh, heir apparent to Nabha State. He continued to serve Nabha State in several capacities, from the personal secretary of Maharaja Hira Singh to judge of the High Court. Between 1915-17, he served Patiala State.\n\nIn 1885, he had a chance meeting with Max Arthur Macauliffe which led to a lifelong friendship as well as scholarly collaboration between the two. When Max Arthur Macauliffe was researching his six volume work entitled \"The Sikh Religion\", Kahn Singh helped Macauliffe in his study of Sikh scriptures and the history of early Sikhism. When it was published by the Clarendon Press Kahn Singh was assigned the copyright of the work.\n\nHis books \"Gurmat Prabhakar\" and \"Gurmat Sudhakar\" are the standard guide books for understanding Sikhism. His work, \"Mahan Kosh\" (known as the Sikh encyclopedia), is his magnum opus. He published magazine \"Khalsa Gazette\" and is also regarded as one of the founders of the weekly newspaper, \"Khalsa Akhbar\". Works from the period 1882-1911 include: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "3583937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3583937", "title": "Khanqah", "text": "Khanqah\n\nA khanqah or khaniqah (also transliterated as khankahs , khaneqa, khanegah or khaneqah ()), also known as a ribat () – among other terms – is a building designed specifically for gatherings of a Sufi brotherhood or \"tariqa\" and is a place for spiritual retreat and character reformation. In the past, and to a lesser extent nowadays, they often served as hospices for saliks (Sufi travelers), Murids (initiates) and talibs (Islamic students). Khanqahs are very often found adjoined to dargahs (shrines of Sufi saints), mosques and madrasas (Islamic schools). \n\nIn the Arab world, especially North Africa, the khanqah is known as a zāwiyah (, plural \"zāwiyāt\"; also transliterated as \"zawiya\", \"zāwiya\" or \"zaouia\"). In Turkey, Iran and formerly Ottoman areas like Albania and Bosnia, they are locally referred to as tekije (تكيه; also transliterated as tekke, \"tekyeh\", \"teqe\" or \"takiyah\"). In South Asia, the words \"khanqah\" and \"dargah\" are used interchangeably for Sufi shrines. In addition, there are lodges in Central and South Asia often referred to as Qalander Khane that serve as rest houses for the unaffiliated malang, dervishes and fakirs.\n\nKhanqahs later spread across the Islamic world, from Morocco to Indonesia.\n\nThe first khanqah in India is located in Maner sharif. It is established approx more than 800 years ago. Khanquah Maner Sharif has been the centre of fourteen sufi's Order. Of them - Soharvardia order(silsila) and Firdausia order(silsila) have spread vastly throughout the Indian sub-continent. The Khanqah Maner Sharif still exists and are following on the path shown by Imam Taj Faqih and Sultan-ul-Makhdoom.\n\nAll khanqahs, regardless of size, feature a large central hall. The daily ritual prayers incumbent on all Muslims, salat, are held in this hall, as are the specifically Sufi forms of dhikr, meditation and celebration of the divine.\n\nLarge khanqahs often grew up around the dargah of a tariqa's founder or of a Sufi saint.\n\nSome khanqahs include dwellings for the Sufi sheikh or pir, and his family, or cells for Sufis who wish to pursue their dhikr in quiet and isolation. They may also include lodgings for traveling Sufis and pilgrims and premises for charities such as hospitals.\n\nSufi movements have been banned in some Muslim-majority countries such as Turkey, Iran, Saudi Arabia, or the communist and post-communist states of Central Asia. In these countries, khanqahs have been converted to other purposes, turned into museums or mosques. In other countries, Sufism survives and the old khanqahs are still in use.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11088134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11088134", "title": "Lieberman clause", "text": "Lieberman clause\n\nThe Lieberman clause is a clause included in a ketubah, a Jewish wedding document, created by and named after Talmudic scholar and Jewish Theological Seminary of America professor Saul Lieberman, that stipulates that divorce will be adjudicated by a modern Bet Din (rabbinic court) in order to prevent the problem of the agunah, a woman not allowed to remarry because she had never been granted a religious divorce. It was first introduced in the 1950s by rabbis in Judaism's Conservative movement. \n\nAccording to Halakha (Jewish law) when a couple gets divorced it is the man who has to present the woman with a bill of divorce, called a \"get\". Without one the couple is still viewed as married, whether a civil divorce is obtained or not. In the past, if a woman was refused a divorce because a man would not give his wife a \"get\", the rabbis of the local Jewish community were authorized, under certain circumstances, to force the husband to do so (e.g., his refusal to be intimate with his wife as well as not giving the \"get\", or other such serious matters). However since the Haskalah, local Jewish communities lost their autonomous status, and were subsumed into the nation in which they existed. The Jewish community lost its civil powers to enforce marriage and divorce laws. The unintended result was that rabbis lost the power to force a man to give his wife a \"get\", and Jewish law does not allow a woman to give a \"get\" to the husband. Without a \"get\", a Jewish woman is forbidden to remarry and is therefore called an \"agunah\" (literally \"an anchored woman\").\n\nFor decades traditional voices within the Rabbinical Assembly counseled that Conservative Jews should take no unilateral action on this issue, and should wait for solutions from the Orthodox community, or joint action with the Orthodox community. While numerous solutions were offered, none were accepted. Eventually liberal voices within the Rabbinical Assembly won out, and the movement authorized unilateral action.\n\nLieberman developed a clause to be added to the ketubah (Jewish wedding document). In effect, it was an arbitration agreement used in the case of a divorce; if the marriage dissolved and the woman was refused a \"get\" from her husband, both the husband and wife were to go to a rabbinic court authorized by the Jewish Theological Seminary of America and heed their directives, which could (and usually did) include ordering a man to give his wife a \"get\". \n\nAccording to leaders of the Conservative movement, a meeting was held between the leaders of the Rabbinical Assembly (RA), representing the Conservative movement, and the Rabbinical Council of America (RCA), the largest organization of Orthodox rabbis, in an effort to find agreement that the clause was valid from the standpoint of Jewish law, and would be included in both Orthodox and Conservative documents. At the time this clause was proposed it had some support in the Modern Orthodox community, and Orthodox leader Rabbi Joseph Soloveitchik gave this proposal his approval. However, the Orthodox movement never acted to include the clause, and eventually most Orthodox rabbis seem to have united in their rejection of the clause as a violation of Jewish law. As a result, it has only been used for wedding documents and ceremonies in some (but not all) non-Orthodox denominations of Judaism.\n\nThis clause is still used in many \"ketubot\" (wedding documents) used by Conservative Jews today. However, in the intervening years there has been growing concern regarding the legal validity of this clause due to the United States stand on the separation of church and state. For that reason, state courts have disagreed in terms of recognition of this clause, in a religious document, in a civilian legal setting.\n\nAs a response to this concern, a separate letter was drawn up, and signed by the prospective bride and groom, acknowledging that the conditions of the \"ketuba\" had been explained to them, and that this letter would be recognized by them as a separate civil document, enforceable in U.S. courts. \n\nHowever, even some Conservative rabbis grew to have misgivings about the religious validity of this approach, eventually leading the Joint Bet Din (rabbinical court) of the Conservative Movement to develop alternative approaches to the problem of the \"agunah\", which include but are not limited to \"hafka'at kiddushin\", retroactive annulment of the marriage.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "335877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=335877", "title": "Lingayatism", "text": "Lingayatism\n\nLingayatism is a Shaivite Hindu religious tradition in India. Initially known as \"Veerashaivas\", since the 18th century adherents of this faith are known as \"Lingayats\".\n\nThe terms \"Lingayatism\" and \"Veerashaivism\" have been used synonymously, but \"Veerashaivism\" may refer to the broader \"Veerashaiva\" philosophy which predates Lingayatism, to the historical community now called \"Lingayats\", and to a contemporary (sub)tradition within Lingayatism with Vedic influences. Meanwhile, \"Lingayatism\" may refer to the whole Lingayat community, but also to a contemporary (sub)tradition dedicated to Basava's original thought, and to a movement within this community which strives toward recognition as an independent religion. While some Vedic oriented Veerashaivas consider the two contemporary (sub)traditions to be \"one and the same community\" belonging to Hinduism,\n\nLingayatism was founded, or revived, by the 12th-century philosopher and statesman Basava in Karnataka. Lingayat scholars thrived in northern Karnataka during the Vijayanagara Empire (14th-18th century). In the 21st century, some Lingayats have sought legal recognition as a religion distinct from Hinduism and Veerashaivas, a request which gained support from the Congress-led Karnataka government in 2018.\n\nLingayatism is generally considered a Hindu sect as their beliefs include many Hindu elements. Worship is centred on Shiva as the universal god in the iconographic form of \"Ishtalinga\". Lingayatism emphasises qualified monism, with philosophical foundations similar to those of the 11th–12th-century South Indian philosopher Ramanuja. Lingayatism rejects any form of social discrimination including the caste system.\n\nContemporary Lingayatism is influential in South India, especially in the state of Karnataka. Lingayats celebrate anniversaries (\"jayanti\") of major religious leaders of their tradition, as well as Hindu festivals such as the Shivaratri and Ganesh Chaturthi. Lingayatism has its own pilgrimage places, temples, shrines and religious poetry based on Shiva. Today, Lingayats, along with Shaiva Siddhanta followers, Naths, Pashupaths, Kapalikas and others constitute the Shaiva population.\n\nLingayatism is derived from the Sanskrit root \"linga\" (Shiva icon) and suffix \"ayta\". The adherents of Lingayatism are known as \"Lingayats\". In historical literature, they are sometimes referred to as Lingawants, Lingangis, Lingadharis, Sivabhaktas, Virasaivas or Veerashaivas. The term Lingayat is based on the practice of both genders of Lingayats wearing an \"iṣṭaliṅga\" contained inside a silver box with a necklace all the time. The \"istalinga\" is an oval-shaped emblem symbolising Parashiva, the absolute reality and icon of their spirituality.\n\nHistorically, \"Lingayats\" were known as \"Virashaivas\", or \"ardent, heroic worshippers of Shiva.\" According to Blake Michael, the term \"Veerashaivism\" refers both to a \"philosophical or theological system as well as to the historical, social and religious movement which originated from that system.\" \"Lingayatism\" refers to the modern adherents of this religion. The term Lingayats came to be commonly used during the British colonial period.\n\nIn 1926, the Bombay High Court ruled that \"the Veerashaivas are not Shudras; they are Lingi Brahmins [Brahmins who wear the Linga] of\nthe highest order.\" While the administrators of the 1931 Census \"were instructed to list them as Lingi Brahmins,\" the term was not being used by Lingayats to describe themselves.\n\nThe terms \"Lingayatism\" and \"Veerashaivism\" have been used synonymously. \"Veerashaivism\" refers to the broader \"Veerashaiva\" philosophy and theology as well as the movement, states Blake Michael, while Lingayata refers to the modern community, sect or caste that adheres to this philosophy. In the contemporary era, some state that Veerashaiva is a (sub)tradition within Lingayatism with Vedic influences, and these sources have been seeking a political recognition of Lingayatism to be separate from Veerashaivism, and Lingayatism to be a separate religion. In contrast, Veerashaivas consider the two contemporary (sub)traditions to be \"one and the same community\" belonging to Hinduism.\n\nThe origins of Lingayatism is traced to the 11th- and 12th-century CE in a region that includes northern Karnataka and nearby districts of South India. This region was a stronghold of Jainism and Shaivism. According to Iyer and other scholars, the Lingayatism theology emerged as a definitive egalitarian movement in this theological milieu, grew rapidly beyond north Karnataka. The Lingayats, states Burjor Avari quoting Jha, were \"extremely anti-Jain\". The Veerashaiva philosophy enabled Lingayats to \"win over the Jains to Shiva worship\". The Lingayats were also anti-Brahamin as evidenced by the polemics against the Brahmins in early Veerashaiva literature, much like the periodic anti-Brahmin polemics found in South Indian Hindu literature.\n\nAccording to a tradition which developed after Basava's time, \"Veerashaivism\" was transmitted by five \"Panchacharyas\", namely Renukacharya, Darukacharya, Ekorama, Panditharadhya, and Vishweswara, and first taught by Renukacharya to sage Agasthya, a Vedic seer. A central text in this tradition is Siddhanta Shikhamani, which was written in Sanskrit, and gives an elaboration of \"the primitive traits of Veerashaivism [found] in the Vedas and the Upanishads\" and \"the concrete features given to it in the latter parts (Uttarabhaga) of the Saivagamas.\" While Veerashaivas regard the \"Siddhanta Shikhamani\" to predate Basava, it may actually have been composed in the 13th or 14th century, post-dating Basava.\n\nAccording to Gauri Lankesh, \"Lingayats are followers of Basavanna,\" while Veerashaivism is a Vedic Shaiva tradition, which \"accepts the Vedic texts and practices like caste and gender discrimination.\" Basava's reform movement attracted Shaivite Brahmins from Andhra Pradesh; a century after Basava, \"their descendants started mixing practices from their former religion with Lingayatism.\" Basava's teachings also got mixed-up with Vedic teachings because much sharana literature was lost after the exile of sharana authors from the Bijjala kingdom.\n\nAccording to Gauri Lankesh, Veerashaivism is preserved and transmitted by five peethas (Rambhapuri, Ujjaini, Kedar, Shreeshail, Kashi), which play an essential role in the Veerashaiva tradition. In contrast, the \"virakta\" monastic organisation upheld \"the ideals of Basava and his contemporaries.\" According to Bairy, the \"virakta\" tradition criticised \"[t]he Panchacharya tradition, the Mathas which belonged to it and the (upper) castes which owed their allegiance to them\" for their support of Brahmins and their deviation from Basava's ideals.\n\nAccording to Sri Sharanbasava Devaru of Charanteshwar Mutt, interviewed in 2013, Lingayatism is a separate religion, distinct from the Hindu cultural identity, while Veerashaivism is a Shaivite sect \"based on Vedic philosophy.\" Sri Sharanbasava Devaru further states that Veerashaivism \"started gaining importance only after 1904 with some mutts mixing Veerashaivism with Lingayatism.\"\n\nAccording to India Today, while \"Veerashaivas' claim that the two communities are one and the same,\" orthodox Lingayats claim that they are different. Lingayats claim that Veerashaivas do not truly follow Basava, accept Vedic literature, and \"worship idols of Lord Shiva.\" Veerashaivas further \"owe allegiance to various religious centres (mutts), [while] the Lingayats mostly follow their own gurus.\"\n\nThe Sharana-movement, which started in the 11th century, is regarded by some as the start of Veerashaivism. It started in a time when Kalamukha Shaivism, which was supported by the ruling classes, was dominant, and in control of the monasteries. The Sharana-movement was inspired by the Nayanars, and emphasised personal religious experience over text-based dogmatism.\n\nThe traditional legends and hagiographic texts state Basava to be the founder of the Lingayats and its secular practices. He was a 12th-century Hindu philosopher, statesman, Kannada poet in the Shiva-focused Bhakti movement and a social reformer during the reign of the Kalachuri king Bijjala II (reigned 1157–1167) in Karnataka, India.\n\nBasava grew up in a Brahmin family with a tradition of Shaivism. As a leader, he developed and inspired a new devotional movement named \"Virashaivas\", or \"ardent, heroic worshippers of Shiva\". This movement shared its roots in the ongoing Tamil Bhakti movement, particularly the Shaiva Nayanars traditions, over the 7th- to 11th-century. However, Basava championed devotional worship that rejected temple worship with rituals led by Brahmins, and emphasized personalised direct worship of Shiva through practices such as individually worn icons and symbols like a small linga.\n\nBasavanna spread social awareness through his poetry, popularly known as \"Vachanaas\". Basavanna rejected gender or social discrimination, and caste distinctions, as well as some extant practices such as the wearing of sacred thread, and replaced this with the ritual of wearing \"Ishtalinga\" necklace, with an image of the Shiva Liṅga, by every person regardless of his or her birth, to be a constant reminder of one's bhakti (loving devotion) to god Shiva. As the chief minister of his kingdom, he introduced new public institutions such as the \"Anubhava Mantapa\" (or, the \"hall of spiritual experience\"), which welcomed men and women from all socio-economic backgrounds to discuss spiritual and mundane questions of life, in open.\n\nAfter initially supporting Basava, king Bijjala II disagreed with Basava's rejection of caste distinctions. In 1167 the Veerashaivas were repressed, and most of them left Kalyāna, Bijjala's new capital, spreading Basava's teachings into a wider area in southern India. The king was assassinated by the Veerashaivas in 1168.\n\nAfter Basava's death, Shaivism consolidated its influence in southern India, meanwhile adjusting to Hindu orthodoxy. Basava's nephew Channabasava organised the community and systematised Virasaiva theology, moving the Virashaiva community toward the mainstream Hindu culture. Basava's role in the origins of Shaivism was downplayed, and a mythology developed in which the origins of Veerashaivism were attributed to the five Panchacharyas, descending to earth in the different world-ages to teach Shaivism. In this narrative, Basava was regarded as a reviver of this ancient teaching.\n\nMonasteries of the older Saiva schools, \"such as the Kalamukha,\" were taken over by the Virasaivas. Two kinds of monastic orders developed. Due to their roots in the traditional schools, the \"gurusthalada\" monasteries were more conservative, while the \"viraktas\" \"constituted the true Virasaiva monastic organisation, shaped by the ideals of Basava and his contemporaries.\"\n\nIn the 14th-15th century, a Lingayat revival took place in northern Karnataka in the Vijayanagara Empire. The Lingayats likely were a part of the reason why Vijayanagara succeeded in territorial expansion and in withstanding the Deccan Sultanate wars. The Lingayat text \"Sunyasampadane\" grew out of the scholarly discussions in an Anubhava Mantapa, and according to Bill Aitken, these were \"compiled at the Vijayanagara court during the reign of Praudha Deva Raya\". Similarly, the scripture of Lingayatism \"Basava Purana\" was completed in 1369 during the reign of Vijayanagara ruler Bukka Raya I.\n\nThe Virasaivas were an important part of the Vijayanagara empire army. They fought the Bijapur Sultans, and the Virasaiva leader Sadasiva Nayaka played a key role in leading the capture of Sultanate fortress such as at Gulbarga. This success led to Nayaka being appointed as the governor of the coastal Karnataka Kanara region. This emerged as a Lingayat dynasty, called the Nayakas of Keladi. Another group of Virasaivas merchants turned warriors of the Vijayanagara empire were successful in defeating the Deccan Sultanates in the Lepakshi region (Karnataka-Andhra Pradesh border region). After the collapse of the Vijayanagara empire, the Lingayat Keladi/Ikkeri dynasty ruled the coastal Karnataka till the invasion and their defeat by Hyder Ali seeking a Mysore-based Sultanate.\n\nThe Virasaiva dynasty Nayaka rulers built major 16th to 18th-century shrines and seminaries of Lingayatism, repaired and built new Hindu and Jain temples, sponsored major Hindu monasteries such as the Advaita Sringeri matha and the Vaishnava Udupi mathas, as well as forts and temples such as at Chitradurga. They also started new towns and merchant centers in coastal and interior Karnataka.\n\nIn early decades of the 19th-century, the Lingayats were described by British officials such as Francis Buchanan as a conglomeration of Hindu castes with enormous diversity and eclectic, egalitarian social system that accepted converts from all social strata and religions. However, the British officials also noted the endogamous tradition and hereditary occupations of many Lingayats, which made their classification difficult. In the 1871 and the 1881 colonial era census of British India, Lingayats were listed as \"shudras\". According to the sociologist M. N. Srinivas, Lingayats traditionally believed themselves to be equal in status to Brahmins, and some orthodox Lingayats were so anti-Brahmin that they would not eat food cooked or handled by Brahmins. The egalitarian Lingayats, states Srinivas, had been a major force in Sanskritization of Kannada-speaking (Karnataka) and nearby regions but against elitism.\n\nAfter being placed in the shudra category in the 1881 census, Lingayats demanded a higher caste status. This was objected and ridiculed by a Brahmin named Ranganna who said that Lingayats were not Shaiva Brahmins given their eclectic occupations that included washermen, traders, agriculture and others, as well as their exogamous relationships with the royal family. Lingayats persisted in their claims for decades, and their persistence was strengthened by Lingayat presence within the government, and a growing level of literacy and employment in journalism and the judiciary. In 1926, the Bombay High Court ruled that \"the Veerashaivas are not Shudras.\"\n\nAccording to Schouten, in the early 20th century Lingayats tried to raise their social status, by stressing the specific characteristics of their history and of their religious thought as being distinctive from the Brahmin-dominated Hindu-culture. In the 1910s, the narrative of Basava and Allama as the \"founding pillars\" of the Lingayats gained new importance for the identity of parts of the Lingayat-community, with other parts responded with rejection of this \"resurrection.\"\n\nAccording to Ramanujan, \"A modern attempt was made to show Lingayats as having a religion separate from Hindu when Lingayats received discrete entry in the Indian constitution of 1950.\" Individuals and community leaders have made intermittent claims for the legal recognition of either being distinct from Hinduism or a caste within Hinduism.\n\nIn 2000, the \"Akhila Bharatha [All India] Veerashaiva Mahasabha\" started a campaign for recognition of \"Veerashaivas or Lingayats\" as a non-Hindu religion, and a separate listing in the Census. Recognition as a religious minority would make Lingayats \"eligible for rights to open and manage educational institutions given by the Constitution to religious and linguistic minorities.\" In 2013, the \"Akhila Bharatha [All India] Veerashaiva Mahasabha\" president was still lobbying for recognition of Lingayatism as a separate religion, arguing that Lingayatism rejects the social discrimination propagated by Hinduism.\n\nIn 2017, the demands for a separate religious identity gained further momentum on the eve of the 2018 elections in Karnataka. While the Congress party supports the calls for Lingayatism as a separate religion, the BJP regards Lingayats as Veerashaivas and Hindus. In August 2017, a rally march supporting Lingayatism as \"not Hinduism\" attracted almost 200,000 people, while the issue further divides the Lingayat and Veerashaiva communities, and various opinions exist within the Lingayat and Veerashaiva communities. According to India Today, \"Veerashaivas claim that the two communities are one and the same,\" while orthodox Lingayats claim that they are different. Veerashaivas further \"owe allegiance to various religious centres (mutts), [while] the Lingayats mostly follow their own gurus.\" Nevertheless, some mutts support the campaign for the status of a separate religion, while \"others content to be counted as a caste within Hinduism.\"\n\nIn March 2018, the Nagamohan Das committee advised \"to form a separate religion status for the Lingayats community.\" In response, the Karnataka government approved this separate religious status, a decision which was decried by Veerashaivas. It recommended the Indian government to grant the religious minority status to the sect.\n\nLingayatism is often considered a Hindu sect. because it shares beliefs with Indian religions, and \"their [Lingayats] beliefs are syncretistic and include an assemblage of many Hindu elements, including the name of their god, Shiva, who is one of the chief figures of the Hindu pantheon.\" Its worship is centred on Hindu god Shiva as the universal god in the iconographic form of \"Ishtalinga\". They believe that they will be reunited with Shiva after their death by wearing the \"lingam\".\n\nLingayatism worship is centred on the Hindu god Shiva as the universal god in the iconographic form of \"Ishtalinga\". The Lingayats always wear the \"Ishtalinga\" held with a necklace. The Istalinga is made up of small blue-black stone coated with fine durable thick black paste of cow dung ashes mixed with some suitable oil to withstand wear and tear. The \"Ishtalinga\" is a symbolism for Lord Shiva. It is viewed as a \"living, moving\" divinity with the Lingayat devotee. Everyday, the devotee removes this personal linga from its box, places it in left palm, offers puja and then meditates about becoming one with the linga, in his or her journey towards the \"atma-linga\".\n\nLingayatism teaches a path to an individual's spiritual progress, and describes it as a six-stage \"Satsthalasiddhanta\". This concept progressively evolves:\n\nThus bhakti progresses from external icon-aided loving devotional worship of Shiva to deeper fusion of awareness with abstract Shiva, ultimately to advaita (oneness) of one's soul and god for \"moksha\".\n\nWhile they accept the concept of transmigration of soul (metempsychosis, reincarnation), they believe that Lingayats are in their last lifetime, and believe that will be reunited with Shiva after their death by wearing the \"lingam\". Lingayats are not cremated, but \"are buried in a sitting, meditative position, holding their personal linga in the right hand.\"\n\nIndologist F. Otto Schrader was among early scholars who studied Lingayat texts and its stand on metempsychosis. According to Schrader, it was Abbe Dubois who first remarked that Lingayatism rejects metempsychosis – the belief that the soul of a human being or animal transmigrates into a new body after death. This remark about \"rejecting rebirth\" was repeated by others, states Schrader, and it led to the question whether Lingayatism is a religion distinct from other Indian religions such as Hinduism where metempsychosis and rebirth is a fundamental premise. According to Schrader, Dubois was incorrect and Lingayat texts such as \"Viramahesvaracara-samgraha\", \"Anadi-virasaivasara-samgraha\", \"Sivatattva ratnakara\" (by Basava), and \"Lingait Paramesvara Agama\" confirm that metempsychosis is a fundamental premise of Lingayatism. According to Schrader, Lingayats believe that if they live an ethical life then this will be their last life, and they will merge into Shiva, a belief that has fed the confusion that they do not believe in rebirth. According to R. Blake Michael, rebirth and ways to end rebirth was extensively discussed by Basava, Allama Prabhu, Siddharameshawar and other religious saints of Lingayatism.\n\n\"Shunya\", in a series of Kannada language texts, is equated with the Virashaiva concept of the Supreme. In particular, the \"Shunya Sampadane\" texts present the ideas of Allama Prabhu in a form of dialogue, where \"shunya\" is that void and distinctions which a spiritual journey seeks to fill and eliminate. It is the described as state of union of one's soul with the infinite Shiva, the state of blissful moksha.\n\nThis Lingayat concept is similar to \"shunya Brahma\" concept found in certain texts of Vaishnavism, particularly in Odiya, such as the poetic \"Panchasakhas\". It explains the \"Nirguna Brahman\" idea of Vedanta, that is the eternal unchanging metaphysical reality as \"personified void\". Alternate names for this concept of Hinduism, include \"shunya purusha\" and \"Jagannatha\" in certain texts. However, both in Lingayatism and various flavors of Vaishnavism such as \"Mahima Dharma\", the idea of \"Shunya\" is closer to the Hindu concept of metaphysical \"Brahman\", rather than to the \"Śūnyatā\" concept of Buddhism. However, there is some overlap, such as in the works of Bhima Bhoi.\n\nSripati, a Veerashaiva scholar, explained Lingayatism philosophy in \"Srikara Bhashya\", in Vedanta terms, stating Lingayatism to be a form of qualified non-dualism, wherein the individual Atman (soul) is the body of God, and that there is no difference between Shiva and Atman (self, soul), Shiva is one's Atman, one's Atman is Shiva. Sripati's analysis places Lingayatism in a form closer to the 11th century Vishishtadvaita philosopher Ramanuja, than to Advaita philosopher Adi Shankara.\n\nOther scholars state that Lingayatism is more complex than the description of the Virasaiva scholar Sripati. It united diverse spiritual trends during Basava's era. Jan Peter Schouten states that it tends towards monotheism with Shiva as the godhead, but with a strong awareness of the monistic unity of the Ultimate Reality. Schouten calls this as a synthesis of Ramanuja's Vishishtadvaita and Shankara's Advaita traditions, naming it \"Shakti-Vishishtadvaita\", that is monism fused with Shakti beliefs. But Basava's approach is different than Adi Shankara, states Schouten, in that Basava emphasises the path of devotion, compared to Shankara's emphasis on the path of knowledge—a system of monistic Advaita philosophy widely discussed in Karnataka in the time of Basava.\n\nThe \"Panchacharas\" describe the five codes of conduct to be followed by the Lingayats. The \"Panchacharas\" include:\n\nThe \"Ashtavaranas\", the eight-fold armour that shields the devotee from extraneous distraction and worldly attachments. The \"Ashtavaranas\" include:\n\n\"Kayakave kailasa\" is a slogan in Virasaivism. It means \"work is heaven\" or \"to work [\"Kayakave\"] is to be in the Lord's Kingdom [\"Kailasa\"]\". Some scholars translate \"Kayaka\" as \"worship, ritual\", while others translate it as \"work, labour\". The slogan is attributed to Basava, and generally interpreted to signify a work ethic for all social classes.\n\nLingayat poet-saints accepted the concept of \"karma\" and repeatedly mention it in their Shiva poetry. For example, states Ramanujan, Mahadeviyakka mentions karma and resulting chain of rebirths that are cut short by bhakti to Shiva. Lingayatism has the concepts of karma and dharma, but the Lingayatism doctrine of karma is not one of fate and destiny. Lingayats believe in \"kayaka\" (work) and the transformative potential of \"one's work in the here and now\". According to Schouten, Siddharama and Allama debated the doctrine of karma as the law of work and merit, but Allama persuaded Siddharama that such merit is a low level mechanism, and real mystical achievement transcends \"the sphere of works and rewards\" and is void of self-interest. These ideas, states Schouten, are similar to those found in Bhagavad Gita which teaches \"work must be done without any attachment to the results\".\n\n\"Dasoha\" is the purpose and result of \"Kāyakavē Kailāsa\" in Lingayatism. \"Dasoha\" means \"service\", and more specifically \"service to other Lingayats\" including the \"Jangama\". Regardless of one's vocation, Lingayatism suggests giving and donating a part of one's time, effort and income to one's community and to religious mendicants.\n\nAccording to Virasaivism, skilful work and service to one's community, without discrimination, is a means to experiencing the divine, a sentiment that continues to be revered in present-day Virasaivas. According to Jan Peter Schouten, this doctrine is philosophically rooted in the more ancient So'ham Sanskrit oneness mantra related to Shiva, and which means \"I am He\". This social ethic is also found among other Hindu communities of South India, and includes community provisioning of grains and sharing other essentials particularly with poorer members of society and those affected by natural or other disasters.\n\n\"Lingadharane\" is the ceremony of initiation among Lingayats. Though \"lingadharane\" can be performed at any age, it is usually performed when a fetus in the womb is 7–8 months old. The family Guru performs pooja and provides the ishtalinga to the mother, who then ties it to her own ishtalinga until birth. At birth the mother secures the new ishtalinga to her child. Upon attaining the age of 8–11 years, the child receives \"Diksha\" from the family Guru to know the proper procedure to perform pooja of ishtalinga. From birth to death, the child wears the Linga at all times and it is worshipped as a personal ishtalinga. The \"Linga\" is wrapped in a cloth housed in a small silver and wooden box. It is to be worn on the chest, over the seat of the indwelling deity within the heart. Some people wear it on the chest or around the body using a thread.\n\nLingayats are strict vegetarians. Devout Lingayats do not consume beef, or meat of any kind including fish. The drinking of alcohol is prohibited.\n\nThe early Lingayat literature, including the Basava Purana, highly praises militant action against anyone who persecutes a fellow Lingayat or their ability to practice their Shiva-bhakti traditions. According to Schouten, one of earliest assassinations in retaliation for persecution happened in the 12th-century when king Bijjala was murdered. However, states Schouten, the early texts of Lingayats give different accounts on who ordered the assassination leading to doubts about the trustworthiness of these historic texts.\n\nVirashaivas believe that the human body is a temple. In addition, they have continued to build the community halls and Shaiva temple traditions of South India. Their temples include Shiva linga in the sanctum, a sitting Nandi facing the linga, with mandapa and other features. However, the prayers and offerings are not led by Brahmin priests but by Lingayat priests. The temple format is simpler than those of Jains and Hindus found in north Karnataka. In some parts of Karnataka, these temples are samadhis of Lingayat saints, in others such as the Veerabhadra temple of Belgavi – one of the important pilgrimage sites for Lingayats, and other historic temples, the Shiva temple is operated and maintained by Lingayat priests. Many rural Lingayat communities include the images of Shiva, Parvati and Ganesha in their wedding invitations, while Ganesha festivities are observed by both rural and urban Lingayats in many parts of Karnata. Colonial era reports by British officials confirm that Lingayats observed Ganesha Chaturthi in the 19th-century.\n\n\nSeveral works are attributed to the founder of Lingayatism movement, Basava, and these texts are revered in the Lingayat community. In particular, these include various \"Vachana\" (literally, \"what is said\") such as the \"Shat-sthala-vachana\", \"Kala-jnana-vachana\", \"Mantra-gopya\", \"Ghatachakra-vachana\" and \"Raja-yoga-vachana\". Saints and Sharanas like Allamaprabhu, Akka Mahadevi, Siddarama and Basava were at the forefront of this development during the 12th century.\n\nOther important Lingayat literature includes:\n\nThe \"Basava Purana\", a Telugu biographical epic poem which narrates the life story of Basava, was written by Palkuriki Somanatha in 13th-century, and an updated 14th century Kannada version was written by Bhima Kavi in 1369. Both are sacred texts in Lingayatism.\n\nLingayat (Veerashaiva) thinkers rejected the custodial hold of Brahmins over the Vedas and the shastras, but they did not outright reject the Vedic knowledge. The 13th-century Telugu Virashaiva poet Palkuriki Somanatha, author of Basava Purana—a scripture of Veerashaivas, for example asserted, \"Virashaivism fully conformed to the Vedas and the shastras.\" Somanatha repeatedly stated that \"he was a scholar of the four Vedas\".\n\nLingayatism considers the Vedas as a means, but not the sanctimonious end. It rejected various forms of ritualism and the uncritical adherence to any text including the Vedas.\n\nThe \"Anubhava Mantapa\" literally means the \"hall of spiritual experience\". It has been a Lingayat institution since the time of Basava, serving as an academy of mystics, saints and poet-philosophers for discussion of spiritual and mundane questions of life, in open. It was the fountainhead of all religious and philosophical thought pertaining to the Lingayata. It was presided over by the mystic Allamaprabhu, and numerous sharanas from all over Karnataka and other parts of India were participants. This institution also helped propagate Lingayatism religious and philosophical thought. Akka Mahadevi, Channabasavanna and Basavanna himself were participants in the Anubhava Mantapa.\n\nLingayats today are found predominantly in the state of Karnataka, especially in North and Central Karnataka with a sizeable population native to South Karnataka. Lingayats have been estimated to be about 20% of Karnataka's population.\n& in the state of Maharastra forming for about 9% of state population.\n\nSignificant populations are also found in parts of Andhra Pradesh and Telangana bordering Karnataka, as well as Tamil Nadu, Kerala and Gujarat. The Lingayat diaspora can be found in countries around the world, particularly the United States, Britain and Australia.\n\nToday, the Lingayat community is a blend of various castes, consisting of SC, OBC, working classes and various Vaishya castes, that have come together to form the single political entity.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10227302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10227302", "title": "List of Shinto shrines in Taiwan", "text": "List of Shinto shrines in Taiwan\n\nOn June 17, 1895 (Meiji 28), Taiwan came under the rule of the Empire of Japan. In the following year on December 3, 1896, the first Shinto shrine was created in Taiwan. This was actually an already existing located in Tainan but renamed .\n\nSince then, Shinto shrines were built in the major cities between the Meiji and Taishō period, while the majority of Shinto shrines in Taiwan were built from the late 1930s until Japan's defeat in World War II. In total, 204 shrines were built in Taiwan–66 of which were officially sanctioned by the Japanese Empire.\n\nAlthough many shrines in the such as Hokkaidō had such as the which consisted of , and ; the Sun Goddess Amaterasu; Meiji Emperor etc., in Taiwan, most shrines had Prince Yoshihisa as a \"Saijin\". Prince Yoshihisa was sent to Taiwan to subjugate the anti-Japanese rebellion but fell ill and died from malaria in Tainan in 1895. This fate was so similar to that of the legendary Prince Yamato Takeru that Prince Yoshihisa was made a of Taiwan. In 1901 (Meiji 34), the Taiwan Shrine (later Taiwan Grand Shrine) was built and Prince Yoshihisa along with the Three Kami Deities of Cultivation were enshrined. Amaterasu was later included in the shrine. The shrines in Taiwan followed in its lead and Prince Yoshihisa became a \"Saijin\" in most shrines throughout Taiwan. Furthermore, in Tainan, the place of Prince Yoshihisa's demise, the Tainan Shrine was built.\n\nAfter Japan's defeat in World War II, the shrines were either abandoned, destroyed or converted into Chinese Martyr Shrines.\n\nBelow is a list of Shinto shrines which were built during Japanese colonial rule. The shrines were ranked according to their importance such as Grand Shrine (官幣大社 \"kokuhei taisha\"), Small Shrine (国幣小社 \"kokuhei shōsha\") and Martyr Shrine (護国神社 \"gokoku jinja\"), the last of which was designated by the Governor-General of Taiwan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "705931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=705931", "title": "List of predictions", "text": "List of predictions\n\nThere have been various notable predictions made throughout history, including those by scientists based on the scientific method, predictions of social and technological change of futurologists, economic forecasts, religious prophecies and the fictional imaginings of authors and science fiction. Science fiction author Arthur C. Clarke wrote three laws of prediction.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54432160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54432160", "title": "Marxist ethics", "text": "Marxist ethics\n\nMarxist ethics is a doctrine of morality, i.e. ethics that is based on, or derived from, Marxist philosophy. Marxism–Leninism believes that morality, like other forms of ideology, is of a class character and is manifested in people’s behaviour in different ways in different historical conditions in accordance with the interests of what classes or social strata a person advocates.\n\nThe main methodological principles of Marxist ethics are materialism and dialectics. Marxist–Leninist ethics is materialist: the ideals, standards and virtues prevailing in society are interpreted as a reflection of actually existing interpersonal (value) relations, an expression of interests and requirements of social groups and classes. Morality is not reduced to an ethical ideology that has isolated itself from the world and lays claim to absolute value. Marxist ethics describes morality as a property of man’s behaviour conditioned by his social and historical existence as those moral values that bring together (or force apart) living individuals. \n\nMarxist–Leninist ethics is dialectical, i.e. it maintains that like morality as a whole, each of its manifestations, each standard and virtue, is in perpetual motion, emerging, developing, disappearing, passing from one qualitative state to another. Torn out of the concrete historical process, morality in general simply does not exist. Each type of morality is socially and historically conditioned—this is the fundamental tenet of Marxist ethics. The objective core of morality conveys the character of definite social relations—relations of ownership of the means of production, interaction of the various classes and social groups and the forms of distribution and exchange. It follows from this that morality has class content. If the nature of social bonds determines the essence of morality (and in a class society these bonds manifest themselves, first and foremost, in the relations between classes), then the morality reflecting them has a class stamp.\n\n"}
{"id": "53502615", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53502615", "title": "Muslim Association of Hawaii", "text": "Muslim Association of Hawaii\n\nThe Muslim Association of Hawaii is a nonprofit and charitable organization or a mosque in Manoa.\n\nIsmail Elshikh is the imam of the association, and is from Cairo, Egypt.\n\nHakim Ouansafi, from Morocco, is the Arab head of the mosque committee, and is the president of the Muslim Association of Hawaii. Rashid Abdullah is the Information officer.\n\nThe Muslim Students' Association of Hawaii was originally composed of students from the University of Hawaii at Manoa. They were members of the East West Center and came from various parts of the world: India, Pakistan, Afghanistan, Indonesia, Malaysia and from the Middle East. They prayed at a cottage in the East West center prior to the purchase of the Manoa building, which became the Muslim Association of Hawaii in 1990. It was the first organization to represent Hawaii's Muslim population. Mohammad Asad Khan was a founding member of the Muslim Students' Association.\n\nIn 1979, the MSA incorporated becoming the first official organization to represent Muslims in Hawaii.\nThe group helped form the mosque, which is near the University of Hawaii.\nThe majority of Muslim converts in Hawaii are military personnel.\n\nIn 2011, it was reported that the organization receives funds from Prince Abdulaziz Bin Fahad Al-Faisal of Saudi Arabia and that Ouansafi said, “foreign money ... come(s) with strings attached.”\n\nIn 2010, Abdel Hameed Shehadeh, freshman at Kapiolani Community College was arrested for devising a plan to travel to Pakistan to join the Taliban or a similar terrorist group. The student was pursuing a liberal arts degree and frequented the Hawaii Islamic center to worship. The Association assisted law enforcement agencies.\n\n"}
{"id": "93738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=93738", "title": "Pawnee mythology", "text": "Pawnee mythology\n\nPawnee mythology is the body of oral history, cosmology, and myths of the Pawnee people concerning their gods and heroes. The Pawnee are a federally recognized tribe of Native Americans, originally located on the Great Plains along tributaries of the Missouri and Platte Rivers in Nebraska and Kansas and now are currently in Oklahoma. They traditionally speak Pawnee, a Caddoan language. The Pawnees lived in villages of earth lodges. They grew corn and went on long bison hunts on the open plains twice a year. The tribe has four bands: the Skidi and \"the South Bands\" consisted of the Chawi, the Kitkahahki and the Pitahawirata Pawnee.\n\nThere were some differences in the mythology of the Skidi and the South Bands. The Skidis were \"the great star specialists\", with a belief system focusing on visible objects on the night sky. Stars east of the Milky Way were regarded as male gods, while the female powers reigned in the western sky. The South Bands acknowledged the creative powers of some celestial objects and meteorological phenomena, but largely counted upon animals for support and guidance.\n\nAtius Tirawa, which means \"Father Above\" in the Pawnee language (often translated, inaccurately, as \"Great Spirit\"), was the creator god. Other terms used, and perhaps most used, are Tirawahat or Tirawahut. He was believed to have taught the Pawnee people tattooing, fire-building, hunting, agriculture, speech and clothing, religious rituals (including the use of tobacco and sacred bundles), and sacrifices. He was associated with most natural phenomena, including stars and planets, wind, lightning, rain, and thunder. The wife of Tirawa was Atira, goddess of the Earth. Atira (literally, Mother Corn) was associated with corn.\n\nThe male Morning Star in the East was believed to be created first. Being the war god he wore the dress of a warrior. After him came the female Evening Star in the West. She resisted the divine plan to create humankind. Morning Star had to fight and overcome a number of forces in the western sky with his fireball to finally mate with her. The first human being thus created was a girl.\n\nSix major stars represented other gods controlled by Tirawahut. Two of them were the female Southwest and Northwest Stars. The male stars were the North, the Northeast, the Southeast and the South Stars. Some had specific tasks to fulfill:\n\nThe Thunder, the Lightning, the Cloud and the Wind were four great powers in the west. They obeyed the Evening Star. By means of constant song they generated the Earth on which the first girl (the child of Evening and Morning Stars) was placed.\n\nThe solar and lunar deities were Shakuru and Pah, respectively. They were the last of all gods placed in the heavens. Their offspring was a boy, and he was put on Earth, too. Aside from this, the Sun and the Moon are of relatively minor standing in the Skidi Pawnee mythology.\n\nMeteorites brought good fortune to the finders. They were seen as the children of Tirawahut sent down to Earth.\n\nWhile the Skidi Pawnee relied a great deal on the powers and the aid of stars and other objects in cosmos, the South Bands came through foremost by the assistance and advice of a number of animals. Yet, the gods in heaven existed, and the animals acted as go-betweens when they instructed and guided the South Bands.\n\nThe White Beaver ceremony of the Chawi served nearly the same purpose as the renewing or restarting Spring Awakening ceremony (Thunder ceremony) of the Skidi. However hibernating animals were revitalized through this rite rather than the renewal of corn crops.\n\nTirawa conferred miraculous powers on certain animals. These spirit animals, the \"nahurac\", would act as Tirawa's messengers and servants, and could intercede with him on behalf of the Pawnee. The nahurac had five dwellings or lodges:\n\nThe Pawnee seasonal rituals were tied to the observation of the stars and planets. Their earthwork lodges were built at the same time as observatories and as \"microcosm\" (scale-model of the universe).\nEach lodge \"was at the same time the universe and also the womb of a woman, and the household activities represented her reproductive powers.\" \nThe lodge also represented the universe in a more practical way. The physical construction of the house required setting up four posts to represent the four cardinal directions, \"aligned almost exactly with the north–south, east–west axis.\"\nA Pawnee observatory-lodge also required an unobstructed view of the eastern sky. The lodge's axis would be oriented east–west in such a way that the sunrise of vernal equinox would cast light on the altar. The dimensions of the lodge's smoke hole and door would be designed to allow observation of the sky, e.g. with the smoke-hole aligned to enable observation of the Pleiades.\n\nAccording to one Skidi-band Pawnee man at the beginning of the twentieth century, \"The Skidi were organized by the stars; these powers above made them into families and villages, and taught them how to live and how to perform their ceremonies. The shrines of the four leading villages were given by the four leading stars and represent those stars which guide and rule the people.\"\n\nRegular ceremonies were performed before major events, such as semi-annual buffalo hunts. Kawaha, an often-besought god of good luck, was closely connected to buffalo hunts. Many other important activities of the year were started with a ceremony, such as sowing seeds in the spring and harvesting in the fall .\n\nThe most important ceremony of the Pawnee culture, the Spring Awakening ceremony, was meant to awaken the earth and ready it for planting. It can be tied to celestial observation, held at the time when the priest first tracked \"two small twinkling stars known as the Swimming Ducks in the northeastern horizon near the Milky Way.\" and then heard a rolling thunder from the West. (See above for the role of Thunder in the Creation myth).\n\nThe Morning Star ceremony was a ritual human sacrifice of a young girl, performed only by a single village (Village Across a Hill) of the Skidi band of the Pawnee. It was connected to the Pawnee creation narrative, in which the mating of the male Morning Star with the female Evening Star created the first human being, a girl.\nThe Skidi Pawnee practiced the Morning Star ritual regularly, although seemingly not annually, through the 1810s. In June 1818, the \"Missouri Gazette\" reported a sacrifice \"some time ago\". The newborn of a captive Comanche woman was sacrificed after the woman herself had managed to escape on a stolen horse. However, two members of the Long Expedition in 1820 believed that the young Pawnee man Petalesharo had rescued the Comanche girl. Edwin James gave the year for this action as 1817, while John R. Bell placed it around 1815.\n\nUS Indian agents sought to convince chiefs to suppress the ritual, and major leaders, such as Knife Chief and his relative Petalesharo or Man Chief, worked to change the practices objected to by the increasing number of American settlers on the Plains. An additional aim of the agents could have been to protect the fur trade by reducing intertribal animosity.\n\nThe custom came to the wider attention of the public in the Eastern United States in 1820 due to reports of a young Pawnee warrior, Man Chief, who risked his life to rescue a Comanche girl from the sacrificial scaffold in defiance of the Skidi Pawnee priesthood. Indian Agent John Dougherty and some influential Pawnees tried without luck to save the life of a Cheyenne girl before mid-April 1827. The last known sacrifice was of Haxti, a 14-year-old Oglala Lakota girl on April 22, 1838. (A later stated 1833 sacrifice was confused with the one in April 1827).\n\nThe identity of the Morning Star is not clear. \"The earliest accounts specified Venus as Morning Star, while most ethnographers favored Mars\", given it was said to be red. Jupiter is also a candidate.\n\nDuring the known 1827 and 1838 ceremonies, calculations show that Venus rose on the morning sky.\n\nThe ceremony was performed in spring, in years when \"Mars was morning star\" (see above: The identity of the Morning Star), but usually not as an actual human sacrifice, but merely as a symbolic ceremony. However, one source states, \"Several or more years frequently elapsed between occurrences of the Morning Star Ceremony\". An actual human sacrifice would be performed only when a man of the village dreamed that the Morning Star had come to him and told him to perform the proper ceremony. He would then consult with the keeper of the Morning Star bundle, receiving from him a warrior costume. At the first instruction, both the visionary and the priest would cry, knowing that the mission put upon them by the Morning Star was wrong to carry out. The man, aided by volunteers, then had to carry out an attack on an enemy village and capture a girl of suitable age.\n\nReturning to the village, the captured girl would be handed over to the servant (priest) of the Morning Star. The people in contact with the girl treated her with respect, but kept her isolated from the rest of the tribe. When it was time for the spring sacrifice, she was ritually cleansed. A five-day ceremony then began with the priest singing songs describing the advancing stages in the rite, and the girl was symbolically transformed from human to celestial form, as the ritual representation of the Evening Star. On the final day of the ceremony, a procession of men, boys and male infants carried by their mothers accompanied the girl outside the village to a scaffold. The scaffold was made of sacred woods and skins, representing \"Evening Star's garden in the west, the source of all animal and plant life.\"\n\nThe priests removed her clothing and she was left alone on the scaffold at the moment of the rising of the Morning Star (Mars). Symbolizing the Morning Star and his fireballs, two men would come from the east and touch flaming branches to her armpits and groin. She would then be touched with war clubs by four other men. A sacred arrow from the Skull bundle was shot through her heart by the man who captured her while simultaneously another man struck her over the head with the war club from the Morning Star bundle. The dead girl's chest would then be cut open by the priest with a flint knife while her captor caught her blood on dried meat. (\"A very small cut is made ... The heart is not exposed or removed.\") All male members of the tribe would then press forward and shoot arrows into the dead body, then circle the scaffold four times and disperse.\n\nBy shooting arrows into her body, the village men, as embodiments of Morning Star, were symbolically mating with her. Her blood would drip down from the scaffolding and onto the ground which had been made to represent the Evening Star's garden of all plant and animal life. They took her body and lay the girl face down on the prairie, where her blood would enter the earth and fertilize the ground. The spirit of the Evening Star was released and ceremony ensured the Skidi Pawnee participants of the success of the crops, all life on the Plains, and the perpetuation of the Universe.\n"}
{"id": "50915346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50915346", "title": "Pester Women's Charitable Society", "text": "Pester Women's Charitable Society\n\nThe Pester Women's Charitable Society (Pesti Jótékony Nőegylet), founded in 1817 in Pest, was the first women’s organization to form in Hungary. It was a Christian organization. In this organization middle and upper-class women worked together. The organization provided welfare services. It ended in 1892.\n"}
{"id": "3803890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3803890", "title": "Philadelphia Jewish Voice", "text": "Philadelphia Jewish Voice\n\nThe Philadelphia Jewish Voice is a monthly online journal that addresses the critical social and political issues facing the Jewish community of the metropolitan Philadelphia area and beyond. Founded in the summer of 2005, \"Philadelphia Jewish Voice\" functions as a non-profit corporation and is staffed entirely by volunteers committed to reflecting the diversity of opinion within the Jewish community. Subscriptions are free. The current editor-in-chief is Adena Potok, widow of the author Chaim Potok.\nThe publisher is Daniel Elliott Loeb.\n\n"}
{"id": "25597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25597", "title": "Religious conversion", "text": "Religious conversion\n\nReligious conversion is the adoption of a set of beliefs identified with one particular religious denomination to the exclusion of others. Thus \"religious conversion\" would describe the abandoning of adherence to one denomination and affiliating with another. This might be from one to another denomination within the same religion, for example, from Baptist to Catholic Christianity or from Shi’a to Sunni Islam. In some cases, religious conversion \"marks a transformation of religious identity and is symbolized by special rituals\".\n\nPeople convert to a different religion for various reasons, including active conversion by free choice due to a change in beliefs, secondary conversion, deathbed conversion, conversion for convenience, marital conversion, and forced conversion.\n\nConversion or reaffiliation for convenience is an insincere act, sometimes for relatively trivial reasons such as a parent converting to enable a child to be admitted to a good school associated with a religion, or a person adopting a religion more in keeping with the social class they aspire to. When people marry, one spouse may convert to the religion of the other.\n\nForced conversion is adoption of a different religion under duress. The convert may secretly retain the previous beliefs and continue, covertly, with the practices of the original religion, while outwardly maintaining the forms of the new religion. Over generations a family forced against their will to convert may wholeheartedly adopt the new religion.\n\n\"Proselytism\" is the act of attempting to convert by persuasion another individual from a different religion or belief system. (See proselyte).\n\nApostate is a term used by members of a religion or denomination to refer to someone who has left that religion or denomination.\n\nIn sharing their faith with others, Bahá'ís are cautioned to \"obtain a hearing\" – meaning to make sure the person they are proposing to teach is open to hearing what they have to say. \"Bahá'í pioneers\", rather than attempting to supplant the cultural underpinnings of the people in their adopted communities, are encouraged to integrate into the society and apply Bahá'í principles in living and working with their neighbors.\n\nBahá'ís recognize the divine origins of all revealed religion, and believe that these religions occurred sequentially as part of a divine plan (see Progressive revelation), with each new revelation superseding and fulfilling that of its predecessors. Bahá'ís regard their own faith as the most recent (but not the last), and believe its teachings – which are centered around the principle of the oneness of humanity – are most suited to meeting the needs of a global community.\n\nIn most countries conversion is a simple matter of filling out a card stating a declaration of belief. This includes acknowledgement of Bahá'u'llah – the Founder of the Faith – as the Messenger of God for this age, awareness and acceptance of his teachings, and intention to be obedient to the institutions and laws he established.\n\nConversion to the Bahá'í Faith carries with it an explicit belief in the common foundation of all revealed religion, a commitment to the unity of mankind, and active service to the community at large, especially in areas that will foster unity and concord. Since the Bahá'í Faith has no clergy, converts are encouraged to be active in all aspects of community life. Even a recent convert may be elected to serve on a local Spiritual Assembly – the guiding Bahá'í institution at the community level.\n\nWithin Christianity conversion refers variously to three different phenomena: a person becoming Christian who was previously not Christian; a Christian moving from one Christian denomination to another; a particular spiritual development, sometimes called the \"second conversion\", or \"the conversion of the baptised\".\n\nConversion to Christianity is the religious conversion of a previously non-Christian person to some form of Christianity. Some Christian sects require full conversion for new members regardless of any history in other Christian sects, or from certain other sects. The exact requirements vary between different churches and denominations. Baptism is traditionally seen as a sacrament of admission to Christianity. Christian baptism has some parallels with Jewish immersion by \"mikvah\".\n\nIn the New Testament, Jesus commanded his disciples in the Great Commission to \"go and make disciples of all nations\" (, ). Evangelization—sharing the Gospel message or \"Good News\" in deed and word, is an expectation of Christians.\n\nThis table summarizes three Protestant beliefs.\nMuch of the theology of Latter Day Saint baptism was established during the early Latter Day Saint movement founded by Joseph Smith. According to this theology, baptism must be by immersion, for the remission of sins (meaning that through baptism, past sins are forgiven), and occurs after one has shown faith and repentance. Mormon baptism does not purport to remit any sins other than personal ones, as adherents do not believe in original sin. Latter Day Saints baptisms also occur only after an \"age of accountability\" which is defined as the age of eight years. The theology thus rejects infant baptism.\n\nIn addition, Latter Day Saint theology requires that baptism may only be performed with one who has been called and ordained by God with priesthood authority. Because the churches of the Latter Day Saint movement operate under a lay priesthood, children raised in a Mormon family are usually baptized by a father or close male friend or family member who has achieved the office of priest, which is conferred upon worthy male members at least 16 years old in the LDS Church.\n\nBaptism is seen as symbolic both of Jesus' death, burial and resurrection and is also symbolic of the baptized individual putting off of the natural or sinful man and becoming spiritually reborn as a disciple of Jesus.\n\nMembership into a Latter Day Saint church is granted only by baptism whether or not a person has been raised in the church. Latter Day Saint churches do not recognize baptisms of other faiths as valid because they believe baptisms must be performed under the church's unique authority. Thus, all who come into one of the Latter Day Saint faiths as converts are baptized, even if they have previously received baptism in another faith.\n\nWhen performing a Baptism, Latter Day Saints say the following prayer before performing the ordinance:\n\nBaptisms inside and outside the temples are usually done in a baptistry, although they can be performed in any body of water in which the person may be completely immersed. The person administering the baptism must recite the prayer exactly, and immerse every part, limb, hair and clothing of the person being baptized. If there are any mistakes, or if any part of the person being baptized is not fully immersed, the baptism must be redone. In addition to the baptizer, two priesthood holders witness the baptism to ensure that it is performed properly.\n\nFollowing baptism, Latter Day Saints receive the Gift of the Holy Ghost by the laying on of hands of a Melchizedek Priesthood holder.\n\nLatter Day Saints hold that one may be baptized after death through the vicarious act of a living individual, and holders of the Melchezidek Priesthood practice baptism for the dead as a missionary ritual. This doctrine answers the question of the righteous non-believer and the unevangelized by providing a post-mortem means of repentance and salvation.\n\nThere are five pillars, or foundations, of Islam but the primary, and most important is to believe that there is only one God and creator, referred to as Allah (the word for God in Arabic) and that the Islamic prophet, Muhammad, is God's final messenger. The time of a person's conversion is counted from the moment they sincerely make this \"declaration of faith\", called the shahadah in front of witnesses.\n\nIslam teaches that everyone is Muslim at birth but the parents or society can cause them to deviate from the straight path. When someone accepts Islam, they are considered to revert to the original condition. In Islam, circumcision is a \"Sunnah\" custom not mentioned in the Qur'an. The majority clerical opinion holds that circumcision is not a condition for entering Islam. The Shafi`i and Hanbali schools regard it as obligatory, while the Maliki and Hanafi schools regard it as only recommended. However, it is not a precondition for the acceptance of a person's Islamic practices, nor is choosing to forgo circumcision considered a sin. It is not one of the Five Pillars of Islam.\n\nConversion to Judaism is the religious conversion of non-Jews to become members of the Jewish religion and Jewish ethnoreligious community. The procedure and requirements for conversion depend on the sponsoring denomination. A conversion in accordance with the process of a denomination is not a guarantee of recognition by another denomination. A formal conversion is also sometimes undertaken by individuals whose Jewish ancestry is questioned, even if they were raised Jewish, but may not actually be considered Jews according to traditional Jewish law.\n\nAs late as the 6th century the Eastern Roman empire and Caliph Umar ibn Khattab were issuing decrees against conversion to Judaism, implying that this was still occurring.\n\nIn some cases, a person may forgo a formal conversion to Judaism and adopt some or all beliefs and practices of Judaism. However, without a formal conversion, many highly observant Jews will reject a convert's Jewish status.\n\nThere are no rituals or dogmas, nor any sort of procedures in conversion to Spiritism. The doctrine is first considered as science, then philosophy and lastly as a religion. Allan Kardec's codification of Spiritism occurred between the years 1857 and 1868. Currently there are 25 to 60 million people studying Spiritism in various countries, mainly in Brazil, through its essential books, which include \"The Spirits Book\", \"The Book on Mediums\", \"The Gospel According to Spiritism\", \"Heaven and Hell\" and \"The Genesis According to Spiritism\". \n\nChico Xavier wrote over 490 additional books, which expand on the spiritualist doctrine. \n\nAs explained in the first of the 1,019 questions and answers in \"The Spirits Book\": \n1. What is God? Answer: \"God is the Supreme Intelligence-First Cause of all things.\"\n\nThe consensus in Spiritism is that God, the Great Creator, is above everything, including all human things such as rituals, dogmas, denominations or any other thing.\n\nPersons newly adhering to Buddhism traditionally \"take Refuge\" (express faith in the Three Jewels—Buddha, Dharma, and Sangha) before a monk, nun, or similar representative, with often the sangha, the community of practitioners, also in ritual attendance.\n\nThroughout the timeline of Buddhism, conversions of entire countries and regions to Buddhism were frequent, as Buddhism spread throughout Asia. For example, in the 11th century in Burma, king Anoratha converted his entire country to Theravada Buddhism. At the end of the 12th century, Jayavarman VII set the stage for conversion of the Khmer people to Theravada Buddhism. Mass conversions of areas and communities to Buddhism occur up to the present day, for example, in the Dalit Buddhist movement in India there have been organized mass conversions.\n\nExceptions to encouraging conversion may occur in some Buddhist movements. In Tibetan Buddhism, for example, the current Dalai Lama discourages active attempts to win converts.\n\nSince 1800 CE, religious conversion from and to Hinduism has been a controversial subject within Hinduism. Some have suggested that the concept of missionary conversion, either way, is contrary to the precepts of Hinduism. Religious leaders of some of Hinduism sects such as Brahmo Samaj have seen Hinduism as a non-missionary religion yet welcomed new members, while other leaders of Hinduism's diverse schools have stated that with the arrival of missionary Islam and Christianity in India, this \"there is no such thing as proselytism in Hinduism\" view must be re-examined.\n\nHinduism is a diverse system of thought with beliefs spanning monotheism, polytheism, panentheism, pantheism, pandeism, monism, and atheism among others. Hinduism has no traditional ecclesiastical order, no centralized religious authorities, no universally accepted governing body, no prophet(s), no binding holy book nor any mandatory prayer attendance requirements. Hinduism has been described as a way of life. In its diffuse and open structure, numerous schools and sects of Hinduism have developed and spun off in India with help from its ascetic scholars, since the Vedic age. The six Astika and two Nastika schools of Hindu philosophy, in its history, did not develop a missionary or proselytization methodology, and they co-existed with each other. Most Hindu sub-schools and sects do not actively seek converts. Individuals have had a choice to enter, leave or change their god(s), spiritual convictions, accept or discard any rituals and practices, and pursue spiritual knowledge and liberation (moksha) in different ways. However, various schools of Hinduism do have some core common beliefs, such as the belief that all living beings have Atman (soul), a belief in karma theory, spirituality, ahimsa (non-violence) as the greatest dharma or virtue, and others.\n\nReligious conversion to Hinduism has a long history outside India. Merchants and traders of India, particularly from Indian peninsula, carried their religious ideas, which led to religious conversions to Hinduism in Indonesia, Vietnam, Cambodia and Burma. Some sects of Hindus, particularly of the Bhakti schools began seeking or accepting converts in early to mid 20th century. For example, Arya Samaj, Saiva Siddhanta Church, BAPS, and the International Society for Krishna Consciousness accept those who have a desire to follow their sects of Hinduism, and each has its own religious conversion procedure.\n\nIn recent decades, mainstream Hinduism schools have attempted to systematize ways to accept religious converts, with an increase in inter-religious mixed marriages. The steps involved in becoming a Hindu have variously included a period where the interested person gets an informal \"ardha-Hindu\" name and studies ancient literature on spiritual path and practices (English translations of Upanishads, Agamas, Epics, ethics in Sutras, festivals, yoga). If after a period of study, the individual still wants to convert, a \"Namakarana Samskaras\" ceremony is held, where the individual adopts a traditional Hindu name. The initiation ceremony may also include \"Yajna\" (i.e., fire ritual with Sanskrit hymns) under guidance of a local Hindu priest. Some of these places are \"mathas\" and \"asramas\" (hermitage, monastery), where one or more \"gurus\" (spiritual guide) conduct the conversion and offer spiritual discussions. Some schools encourage the new convert to learn and participate in community activities such as festivals (Diwali etc.), read and discuss ancient literature, learn and engage in rites of passages (ceremonies of birth, first feeding, first learning day, age of majority, wedding, cremation and others).\n\nJainism accepts anyone who wants to embrace the religion. There is no specific ritual for becoming a Jain. One does not need to ask any authorities for admission. One becomes a Jain on one's own by observing the five vows (\"vratas\") The five main vows as mentioned in the ancient Jain texts like Tattvarthasutra are:\n\nFollowing the five vows is the main requirement in Jainism. All other aspects such as visiting temples are secondary. Jain monks and nuns are required to observe these five vows strictly.\nSikhism is not known to openly proselytize, but accepts converts.\n\nIn the second half of the 20th century, the rapid growth of new religious movements (NRMs) led some psychologists and other scholars to propose that these groups were using \"brainwashing\" or \"mind control\" techniques to gain converts. This theory was publicized by the popular news media but disputed by other scholars, including some sociologists of religion.\n\nIn the 1960s sociologist John Lofland lived with Unification Church missionary Young Oon Kim and a small group of American church members in California and studied their activities in trying to promote their beliefs and win converts to their church. Lofland noted that most of their efforts were ineffective and that most of the people who joined did so because of personal relationships with other members, often family relationships. Lofland published his findings in 1964 as a doctoral thesis entitled \"The World Savers: A Field Study of Cult Processes\", and in 1966 in book form by Prentice-Hall as \"\". It is considered to be one of the most important and widely cited studies of the process of religious conversion, and one of the first modern sociological studies of a new religious movement.\n\nThe Church of Scientology attempts to gain converts by offering \"free stress tests\". It has also used the celebrity status of some of its members (most famously the American actor Tom Cruise) to attract converts. The Church of Scientology requires that all converts sign a legal waiver which covers their relationship with the Church of Scientology before engaging in Scientology services.\n\nResearch in the United States and the Netherlands has shown a positive correlation between areas lacking mainstream churches and the percentage of people who are a member of a new religious movement. This applies also for the presence of New Age centres.\n\nOn the other end of the scale are religions that do not accept any converts, or do so very rarely. Often these are relatively small, close-knit minority religions that are ethnically based such as the Yazidis, Druze, and Mandaeans. Zoroastrianism classically does not accept converts, but this issue has become controversial in the 20th century due to the rapid decline in membership. Chinese traditional religion lacks clear criteria for membership, and hence for conversion. The Shakers and some Indian eunuch brotherhoods do not allow procreation, so that every member is a convert.\n\nThe United Nations Universal Declaration of Human Rights defines religious conversion as a human right: \"Everyone has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion; this right includes freedom to change his religion or belief\" (Article 18). Despite this UN-declared human right, some groups forbid or restrict religious conversion (see below).\n\nBased on the declaration the United Nations Commission on Human Rights (UNCHR) drafted the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, a legally binding treaty. It states that \"Everyone shall have the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion. This right shall include freedom to have or to adopt a religion or belief of his choice\" (Article 18.1). \"No one shall be subject to coercion which would impair his freedom to have or to adopt a religion or belief of his choice\" (Article 18.2).\n\nThe UNCHR issued a General Comment on this Article in 1993: \"The Committee observes that the freedom to 'have or to adopt' a religion or belief necessarily entails the freedom to choose a religion or belief, \"including the right to replace one's current religion or belief with another\" or to adopt atheistic views [...] Article 18.2 bars coercion that would impair the right to have or adopt a religion or belief, including the use of threat of physical force or penal sanctions to compel believers or non-believers to adhere to their religious beliefs and congregations, to recant their religion or belief \"or to convert\".\" (CCPR/C/21/Rev.1/Add.4, General Comment No. 22.; emphasis added)\n\nSome countries distinguish voluntary, motivated conversion from organized proselytism, attempting to restrict the latter. The boundary between them is not easily defined: what one person considers legitimate evangelizing, or witness-bearing, another may consider intrusive and improper. Illustrating the problems that can arise from such subjective viewpoints is this extract from an article by Dr. C. Davis, published in Cleveland State University's \"Journal of Law and Health\": \"According to the Union of American Hebrew Congregations, Jews for Jesus and Hebrew Christians constitute two of the most dangerous cults, and its members are appropriate candidates for deprogramming. Anti-cult evangelicals ... protest that 'aggressiveness and proselytizing ... are basic to authentic Christianity,' and that Jews for Jesus and Campus Crusade for Christ are not to be labeled as cults. Furthermore, certain Hassidic groups who physically attacked a meeting of the Hebrew Christian 'cult' have themselves been labeled a 'cult' and equated with the followers of Reverend Moon, by none other than the President of the Central Conference of American Rabbis.\"\n\nSince the collapse of the former Soviet Union the Russian Orthodox Church has enjoyed a revival. However, it takes exception to what it considers illegitimate proselytizing by the Roman Catholic Church, the Salvation Army, Jehovah's Witnesses, and other religious movements in what it refers to as its \"canonical territory\".\n\nGreece has a long history of conflict, mostly with Jehovah's Witnesses, but also with some Pentecostals, over its laws on proselytism. This situation stems from a law passed in the 1930s by the dictator Ioannis Metaxas. A Jehovah's Witness, Minos Kokkinakis, won the equivalent of $14,400 in damages from the Greek state after being arrested for trying to preach his faith from door to door. In another case, \"Larissis v. Greece\", a member of the Pentecostal church also won a case in the European Court of Human Rights.\n\n\nConference on Religious and Philosophical Conversion in the Ancient Mediterranean\n"}
{"id": "6928023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6928023", "title": "Religious exclusivism", "text": "Religious exclusivism\n\nReligious exclusivism, or exclusivity, is the doctrine or belief that only one particular religion or belief system is true.\n\nMuslims believe that Islam is the original and primordial faith, or fitrah, that was revealed by Muhammad. Muslims maintain that previous messages and revelations have been partially changed or corrupted over time and consider the Quran to be the unaltered and the final revelation from Allah. Religious concepts and practices include the five pillars of Islam, which are basic concepts and obligatory acts of worship, and following Islamic law, which touches on virtually every aspect of life and society, encompassing everything from banking and welfare, to warfare and the environment.\n\nIslam began its history with an exclusivist attitude toward polytheist religions, but an inclusivist attitude toward monotheists, including Christians and Jews. Believers in the oneness of God were given the status of \"dhimmi\", conferring on them certain rights, including the right to practice their religions openly and not to be pressured to accept Islam. \n\nIn practice, however, neither the inclusion of Jews and Christians nor militant exclusivism toward \"pagans\" was always practiced. Trinitarian Christians were accused of idolatry because of their veneration of icons and were also sometimes treated as polytheists because of the doctrines of the Trinity and the Incarnation. As strict monotheists, Jews generally fared better than Christians under Islamic rule. Jews and Christians are viewed largely favorably as compared to any other religion.\n\nThe basic attitude of Islam toward other religions remains unchanged today, and certain Islamic nations, such as Saudi Arabia and Iran, are more exclusivistic toward other religions than are others, such as Indonesia and Egypt.\n\nIslam does accept sincere Jews, Christians, and Sabians as people \"of the Book\" along with Muslims.\n\nAlthough most Jews are pluralist or inclusivist some Jews believe that the God of Abraham is the one true God. The Jews believe the God of Abraham entered into a covenant with the ancient Israelites, marking them as his Chosen People, giving them a mission to spread the concept of monotheism. Jews do not consider their chosenness to be a mark of superiority to other nations, but a responsibility to be an example of behavior for other nations to emulate.\n\nBuddhist religious exclusivism may be seen in the implication that those who do not accept the teachings of the Buddha, such as the Eightfold Path, are destined to repeat the cycle of suffering through endless reincarnations; while those who practice the true way can reach enlightenment. Neo-Buddhist groups sometimes consider their tradition the true path to enlightenment and engage in strong evangelical efforts to influence those they consider to be in darkness. Several sects associated with Nichiren Buddhism may be included in this category.\n\nHowever, many followers of Eastern religions are not exclusivist. For example, there are millions of Buddhists who would also consider themselves to follow Confucianism or Taoism.\n\n"}
{"id": "80651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=80651", "title": "Rharian Field", "text": "Rharian Field\n\nThe Rharian Field (Ράριον [sic!] πεδίον) was located in Eleusis in Greece and was supposedly where the first plot of grain was grown after Demeter (through Triptolemus) taught humanity agriculture. It was associated with the Eleusinian Mysteries.\n\nDemeter was surnamed \"Rharias\" after the field, or after its mythical eponym Rarus.\n"}
{"id": "355519", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=355519", "title": "Rita of Cascia", "text": "Rita of Cascia\n\nSaint Rita of Cascia (Born Margherita Lotti 1381 – 22 May 1457) was an Italian widow and Augustinian nun venerated as a saint in the Roman Catholic Church. Rita was married at an early age. The marriage lasted for eighteen years, during which she is remembered for her Christian values as a model wife and mother who made efforts to convert her husband from his abusive behavior. Upon the murder of her husband by another feuding family, she sought to dissuade her sons from revenge.\n\nShe subsequently joined an Augustinian community of religious sisters, where she was known both for practicing mortification of the flesh and for the efficacy of her prayers. Various miracles are attributed to her intercession, and she is often portrayed with a bleeding wound on her forehead, which is understood to indicate a partial stigmata.\n\nPope Leo XIII canonized Rita on 24 May 1900. Her feast day is celebrated on May 22. At her canonization ceremony she was bestowed the title of \"Patroness of Impossible Causes\", while in many Catholic countries, Rita came to be known to be as the patroness of abused wives and heartbroken women.\n\nSaint Rita (Margherita Lotti) was born in 1381 in the city of Roccaporena a small suburb of Cascia (near Spoleto, Umbria, Italy) where various sites connected with her are the focus of pilgrimages. Her parents, Antonio and Amata Ferri Lotti, were known to be noble, charitable persons, who gained the epithet \"Conciliatore di Cristo\" (English: \"Peacemakers of Christ\").\n\nAccording to pious accounts, Rita was originally pursued by a notary named \"Gubbio\" but she resisted his offer. She was married at age twelve to a nobleman named Paolo Mancini. Her parents arranged her marriage, a common practice at the time, despite her repeated requests to be allowed to enter a convent of religious sisters. Her husband, Paolo Mancini, was known to be a rich, quick-tempered, immoral man, who had many enemies in the region of Cascia. Rita had her first child at the age of twelve.\n\nRita endured his insults, physical abuse, and infidelities for many years. According to popular tales, through humility, kindness, and patience, Rita was able to convert her husband into a better person, more specifically renouncing a family feud known at the time as \"La Vendetta\". Rita eventually bore two sons, Giangiacomo (Giovanni) Antonio, and Paulo Maria, and brought them up in the Christian faith. As time went by and the family feud between the Chiqui and Mancini families became more intense, Paolo Mancini became congenial, but his allies betrayed him and he was violently stabbed to death by Guido Chiqui, a member of the feuding family.\n\nRita gave a public pardon at Paolo's funeral to her husband's murderers. Paolo Mancini's brother, Bernardo, was said to have continued the blood family feud and hoped to convince Rita's sons to seek revenge. Bernardo convinced Rita's sons to leave their manor and live at the Mancini villa ancestral home. As her sons grew, their characters began to change as Bernardo became their tutor. Rita's sons wished to revenge their father's murder. Rita, fearing that her sons would lose their souls, tried to persuade them from retaliating, but to no avail. Accordingly, she petitioned God to take her sons rather than submit them to possible mortal sin and murder. Her sons died of dysentery a year later, which pious Catholics believe was God's answer to her prayer, taking them by natural death rather than risk them committing a mortal sin punishable by Hell.\n\nAfter the deaths of her husband and sons, Rita desired to enter the monastery of Saint Mary Magdalene in Cascia but was turned away. Although the convent acknowledged Rita's good character and piety, the nuns were afraid of being associated with her due to the scandal of her husband's violent death. However, she persisted in her cause and was given a condition before the convent could accept her: the task of reconciling her family with her husband's murderers. She implored her three patron saints (John the Baptist, Augustine of Hippo, and Nicholas of Tolentino) to assist her, and she set about the task of establishing peace between the hostile parties of Cascia. Popular religious tales recall that the bubonic plague, which ravaged Italy at the time, infected Bernardo Mancini, causing him to relinquish his desire to feud any longer with the Chiqui family. She was able to resolve the conflicts between the families and, at the age of thirty-six, was allowed to enter the monastery.\n\nPious Catholic legends later recount that she was transported into the monastery of Saint Magdalene via levitation at night into the garden courtyard by her three patron saints. She remained at the monastery, living by the Augustinian Rule, until her death from tuberculosis on 22 May 1457.\n\nThe \"Acta\" or life story of Saint Rita was compiled by the Augustinian priest, Father Jacob Carelicci. Rita was beatified by Pope Urban VIII in 1626. The pope's private secretary, Cardinal Fausto Poli, had been born some fifteen kilometers (nine miles) from her birthplace and much of the impetus behind her cult is due to his enthusiasm. She was canonized on May 24, 1900 by Pope Leo XIII. Her feast day is May 22. On the 100th anniversary of her canonization in 2000, Pope John Paul II noted her remarkable qualities as a Christian woman: “Rita interpreted well the 'feminine genius' by living it intensely in both physical and spiritual motherhood.”\n\nShe has acquired the reputation, together with St. Jude, as a saint of impossible cases. She is also the patron saint of sterility, abuse victims, loneliness, marriage difficulties, parenthood, widows, the sick, bodily ills, and wounds.\n\nHer body, which has remained incorrupt over the centuries, is venerated today in the shrine at Cascia, which bears her name. Many people visit her tomb each year from all over the world. French painter Yves Klein had been dedicated to her as an infant. In 1961, he created a Shrine of St. Rita, which is placed in Cascia Convent.\n\nVarious religious symbols are related to Saint Rita. She is depicted holding a thorn (symbol of her penance and stigmata), holding a large Crucifix, holding a Palm leaf with three crowns (representing her two sons and husband), flanked by two small children (her sons), holding a Gospel book, holding a skull (a symbol of mortality) and holding a flagella whip (a symbol of her mortification of the flesh).\n\nWhen St. Rita was approximately sixty years of age, she was meditating before an image of Christ crucified. Suddenly, a small wound appeared on her forehead, as though a thorn from the crown that encircled Christ’s head had loosened itself and penetrated her own flesh. For the next fifteen years she bore this external sign of union with Christ.\n\nIt is said that near the end of her life Rita was bedridden at the convent. While visiting her, a cousin asked if she desired anything from her old home. Rita responded by asking for a rose from the garden. It was January, and her cousin did not expect to find one due to the season. However, when her relative went to the house, a single blooming rose was found in the garden, and her cousin brought it back to Rita at the convent. St. Rita is often depicted holding roses or with roses nearby. On her feast day churches and shrines of St. Rita provide roses to the congregation that are blessed by the priest during Mass.\n\nIn the parish church of Laarne, near Ghent, Belgium, there is a statue of St. Rita in which several bees are featured. This depiction originates from the story of her baptism as an infant. On the day after her baptism, her family noticed a swarm of white bees flying around her as she slept in her crib. However, the bees peacefully entered and exited her mouth without causing her any harm or injury. Instead of being alarmed for her safety, her family was mystified by this sight. According to Butler, this was taken to indicate that the career of the child was to be marked by industry, virtue, and devotion.\n\nA large sanctuary of St. Rita was built in the early 20th century in Cascia. The sanctuary and the house where she was born are among the most active pilgrimage sites of Umbria.\n\nFrench singer Mireille Mathieu adopted St. Rita as her patron saint on the advice of her paternal grandmother. In her autobiography, Mathieu describes buying a candle for St. Rita using her last franc. Though Mathieu claims that her prayers did not always come true, she testifies that they inspired her to become a strong and determined woman.\n\nIn 1943, \"Rita of Cascia\", a film based on St. Rita's life, was made starring Elena Zareschi. The story of St. Rita increased in popularity due to a 2004 film \"Santa Rita da Cascia\", filmed in Florence, Italy. The latter film altered the facts of St. Rita's early life.\n\nSt. Rita is often credited as also being the unofficial patron saint of baseball due to a reference made to her in the 2002 film \"The Rookie\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2975808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2975808", "title": "S'chach", "text": "S'chach\n\nS'chach (סכך) is the Hebrew name for the material used as a roof for a sukkah, used on the Jewish holiday of Sukkot.\n\nS'chach has to derive from things that have \"grown from the ground\", such as palm leaves, bamboo sticks and pine tree branches. Some types of wooden slats and other types of organic material can be used for s'chach, unless they were processed for a different use. The s'chach must have been disconnected from the ground so, for example, placing a sukkah under the boughs of a tree would render it not valid. As a minimum, the s'chach must be thick enough that it provides more shade than light in the sukkah. As a maximum, there is a concept of being able to see the stars through the s'chach, but the absolute maximum is that rain should be able to penetrate into the sukkah.\nIf the sukkah is kept year round, the s'chach must be replaced no more than 30 days before Sukkos. It is not necessary to completely remove the s'chach; it would be sufficient to lift each piece of s'chach up one foot or more into the air, and then put it back down.\n"}
{"id": "29861040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29861040", "title": "Swami Kamal Nayanacharya", "text": "Swami Kamal Nayanacharya\n\nSwami Kamalnayanacharya Shree Ji Maharaj (born 24 May 1966) is a Hindu spiritual leader with his origin in Nepal. Swami Kamalnayanacharya, or \"Swami\" as his followers address him ase is appreciated by people of other faiths for his humanitarian work.\n\n"}
{"id": "8530055", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8530055", "title": "Tagin people", "text": "Tagin people\n\nThe Tagin is one of the major tribe of Arunachal Pradesh, a member of the larger designation of Tani Tribes, the descendants of Abu Tani. Mostly Tagins are in Upper Subansiri district but are also found to be dispersed among the adjoining districts especially in West Siang and Papum Pare.\n\nOriginally the traditional Donyi-Poloism as a religion was being followed all around. Which follows the cult of animism and ritualistic nature worshipping in the form of spiritual deities. Where particular kind of animals or bird are sacrificed at the alter (Nyúgè-made out of the bamboos and woods with particular leaves or vines in stuffed shape) to please the spirits, more likely not anger them and keep them in their kind form. Priest or Nyibu shaman who are born with their powers are the one's who communicate and negotiate between the other world. They are the in between messager from this world to other world. \n\nAlthough recent years has seen mass conversion in local community into Christianity. Which has intensified Western influx in the culture, with more and more of the people embracing western culture. Thus has lead them to leave their tradition and cultural even the dialect.\n\nThe most important festival of the Tagins is the Si-Donyi Festival, involves the veneration of the earth (si) and the sun (donyi). Si-Donyi is celebrated from 4 to 7 January every year. It is celebrated as New Year, Where the Nyibu (local priest) presides over and performs all the rituals with chanting of Uuyu Benam (celestial chantings). And sacrifice of Mithun (Gayal) for peace and prosperity in the community as a whole.\n\n"}
{"id": "57013803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57013803", "title": "Techno-animism", "text": "Techno-animism\n\nTechno-animism is a culture of technological practice where technology is imbued with human and spiritual characteristics. It assumes that technology, humanity and religion can be integrated into one entity. As an anthropology theory, techno-animism examines the interactions between the material and the spiritual aspects of technology in relation to humans. Techno-animism is often studied in the context of Japan since techno-animism traces most of its roots to the Shinto religion.\n\nThe practice of instilling human and spiritual characteristics into physical objects has always been part of the Shinto religion. Deities in the Shinto religion often symbolizes objects of the physical world and their statues often take human forms. With these practices, people form tighter bonds with physical objects. In Japanese culture, the interaction between humans and non-human objects is critical to the harmonious coexistence of men and nature. A prime example of this type of interaction is that before meals, Japanese people always say \"itadakimasu\" which expresses gratitude for the ingredients of the meal may it be animals or plants.\n\nTechno-animism builds upon the practices of the Shinto religion by instilling human and spiritual characteristics into technology. As for representation, techno-animism is often embodied in the engineering design of objects and the way that people interact with those objects. In a larger social context, Techno-animism provides a means for technology to be integrated into the human society because new technology can always be instilled with traditional values.\n\nThe design of certain objects can have human-related traits that illustrate techno-animism. A robot designed by Honda called ASIMO takes the form of an astronaut wearing a spacesuit. The form factor along with the spiritual values associated with space exploration makes ASIMO an embodiment of techno-animism. In addition, ASIMO can also communicate with humans through language and gestures. Communication is a defining factor of determining whether something is an individual being or not. In Japan, the robot industry offers a wide range of functions from talking robots to sex robots. Conversation and sexual relationships used to be concepts that only belonged to humans. However, technological advancements and techno-animism are breaking down that barrier with engineering designs that embodies human and spiritual characteristics. \n\nBeyond the design of objects, the way that people choose to interact with objects could also demonstrate techno-animism. In Shinjuku, Tokyo, there is a restaurant where the waiters are robots instead of humans. Rather than talking to another person, customers only interact with machines throughout the dining process. In this process, customers accept the fact that technology has become part of the human society and has a unique way of interacting with humans.\n\nJapanese culture and legislation are generally supportive of the techno-animism trend. Considering that Japan's modernization took place in a relatively short period of time in comparison to western nations, techno-animism is seen as a major reason why Japan has been one of the world's centers of technological innovations. As a result, acceptance of techno-animism is the current attitude in Japan both culturally and legislatively.\n"}
{"id": "38238694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38238694", "title": "Tecpatl", "text": "Tecpatl\n\nIn the Aztec culture, a tecpatl was a flint or obsidian knife with a lanceolate figure and double-edged blade, with elongated ends. Both ends could be rounded or pointed, but other designs were made with a blade attached to a handle. It can be represented with the top half red, reminiscent of the color of blood, in representations of human sacrifice and the rest white, indicating the color of the flint blade.\n\nIt was the sign of the eighteenth day, the twentieth day of the month of the Aztec calendar and the beginning of one of the twenty trecenas of the tonalpohualli.\n\nThe Tecpatl knife was traditionally used for human sacrifice by the Aztecs, but it also was the short-range weapon of the jaguar warriors. Although it may have seen only limited use on the battlefield, its sharp edges would have made it an effective sidearm.\n\nTecpatl, is one of the most complex iconographic symbols of Aztec mythology. This knife expresses multiple meanings that carry a complex view of the world which are closely associated with the notions of origin and human sacrifice.\n\nThe Tecpatl (Flint) was born in the height of heaven shaped as a knife, and was thrown down by his brother, and it was destined to descend from heaven to earth. It falls in Chicomoztoc(The Place of the Seven Caves) primary array of peoples, fragmenting into 1600 pieces, and from those fragments a thousand and six hundred gods emerge, the first gods here on earth. These gods emerging from the Seven Caves are the Centzonmimixcoa (four snakes clouds). This is confirmed by another version of the myth where the Flint serves as a temporary event marker, appearing as a calendar date, as a carrier of the year Centzonmimixcoa are born: \"In year 1 Tecpatl Centzonmimixcoa were born, Iztac Chalchiuhtlicue (She of the Jade Skirt) begat the fourhundreth mixcohua. Then they went into a cave; and upon entering, their mother gave birth to five more Mimixcoa\".\"\n\nIn the version of the Legend of the Five Suns, Tecpatl becomes temporal marker of the birth of the Centzonmimixcoa, and the name of the mother goddess switches to Iztac Chalchiuhtlicue(She of the Jade Skirt).\n\nAccording to Bernardino de Sahagún and Diego Durán they present the homology between this myth and ritual. \"Among the ornaments worn by the women representing Cihuacoatl at parties, they also brought a crib on their back, so to bring your child in it, and stood in the tianguis among the other women, and disappearing left the crib there . When the other women looked at what was in it, it was a flint and iron were sandeel , with which they killed those whom they sacrificed.\" Meanwhile, Duran tells his priests\" sought a child cot and put into it a flint knife with which they sacrificed the one they called the son of Cihuacoatl.\"\n\nIn the version where the Centzonmimixcoa are born from the Tecpatl, the mother's name is Citlalinicue. In the version that is temporary marker Tecpatl birth, the mother is Iztac Chalchiuhtlicue, and in rites the mother of Tecpatl is Cihuacoatl. Three different invocations of the primordial mothers: skirt stars, She of the Jade Skirt, the snake woman who is at once a warrior deity, Tecpatl mother of the fourhundreth Centonmimixcoa born, the first gods on earth, in Chicomoztoc, the womb of the peoples.\n\nIn Aztec mythology, the tecpatl was sometimes drawn as a simple flint blade, sharpened with some notches on the edge, in the Codex Borgia it appears red.\n\nTecpatl was associated with Northern cardinal point (Mictlan)., the dark place of eternal stillness and rest of the dead.\n\nThe ancient Anahuac, considered the Tecpatl as a symbol of Xiuhtecuhtli tletl (fire protector of the grass or fire protector of the year), being the oldest method to produce sparks(and fire) by colliding two flints. It also relates to Ehecatl, since in the codices it's represented by high winds, meaning that the air cuts like razor, so it represented xopantla ( spring ), the time of high winds. According to Diego Durán, the former Anahuac considered the tecpatl as the worst sign of the zodiac, because the men and women born under this sign were happy but prone to infertility.\n\nThe image of the tecpatl was a lunar symbol and therefore ruled agricultural events. Their patron gods were: Chalchiuhtotolin and Tezcatlipoca.\n\nIn the trecena of Ce Tecpatl(One Flint), the gods were Tonatiuh and Mictlantecuhtli. On day Ce Tecpatl(One Flint), there was a festival dedicated to Huitzilopochtli, patron god of Tenochtitlan.\n\nTecpatl Year 1 (1168): the Aztec people left their place of origin, Aztlán, to undertake a long and difficult journey through the arid northern lands, part of what is now known as Mexico City.\n\nThe tecpatl or sacrificial knife, was an important element in Aztec rituals. The tecpatl was used by Aztec priests to open the chest of the victims of human sacrifice to extract the heart that would feed the gods, in the hope that the offerings would bring blessings to mankind. The most widespread sacrificial procedure among Aztecs, was removal of the heart (cardiectomy).\n\nThere were different types of knives, some of them allude to human sacrifice, being carved as a skull silhouette, where the nose was used as the cutting edge of the weapon.\n\nIn the few técpatls that have survived, there are some representations of deities in their handles. A famous pre-Columbian example is the carved image of a figure using circular plugs in its ears and a big bow ornament made out of feathers, which associates this figure with Tonatiuh, the sun god. Tonatiuh's arms appears to be holding the knife's blade. This particular knife, emphasizes the importance of human sacrifices to feed the gods, especially the sun god, who illuminates the earth and sustains life.\n\nThe flint knife, is also represented in the following sections of the Sun Stone:\n\n\nIn the accounts written by Fray Gerónimo de Mendieta on the origin of Tecpatl: The Centzonmimixcoa were the first man-gods, \"they shall be as gods who created mankind and subsequently be slaughtered at Teotihuacan, some by jumping into fire, the others by opening their chest with a flint knife, this in order that the new Sun has movement and life\".\n\nThis story is related to two main iconographic elements from Sunstone: one is the Flint Knife (Tecpatl), and the other is the glyph: Four Movement (Nahui Ollin)\n\nIn the version of the Legend of the Five Suns, as well as the fourhundreth, five more Centzonmimixcoa are born. The Sun god (Tonatiuh) sends these five Centzonmimixcoa to destroy their older siblings, but they do not offer any of their kill to the Sun god, or the Earth Lord(Tlaltecuhtli) . Among these five is Mixcoatl, who after destroying the fourhundreth Mimixcoa is given a white flint that came gushing out of Itzpapalotl's body. It was burned (dedicated to Itzpapalotl) and broken several times. From there first came the azure flint; the second time flowed white flint. They took the white and wrapped it in a blanket. The third time sprouted yellow flint; neither took only saw. The fourth time flowed red flint; neither took . The fifth time sprang the black flint; neither took. Mixcoatl worshiped the gods by offering the white flint, which he wrapped in another blanket; and carried it on his back and went to fight in the place named Comallan, carrying it as an affering to his god, Itzpapalotl.\n\nIn Aztec codices, the myth goes that Tezcatlipoca changed his name to Mixcoatl in the second year after the flood and makes fire from two pieces of flint. Which would explain the reason why, in the Sun Stone, the Tecpatl is carrying the glyph of Tezcatlipoca. The Tecpatl, linked to the origin of the fire, is also identified as a symbol of the sun and stars.\n\nIn the codices, the moon is usually shown on a framework of dark night, as a kind of vessel cross-cut and usually filled with a liquid form. The vessel appears to be formed by a crooked bone, and inside is almost always the figure of a rabbit, a tecpatl or sometimes a small snail. Sometimes the moon is represented in the same way as the sun, with rays, but with different colors and with a snail or tecpatl in the center.\n\nIn the Codex Borgia, the flint knife is imposed inside the lunar glyph replacing the rabbit. This substitution, undoubtedly refers to the relationship between the moon and death. The Legend of the Five Suns, the name of the moon god is Nahui be Tecpatl (Four-Flint knife).\n\nIn other more elaborate representations in addition to the basic form, the tecpatl can appear anthropomorphized, with two to seven teeth and an eye in the central region, which has a pupil center and an eyebrow on top; this eye is similar to that shown in the image of mizquitli (death). Other times it was built into an elaborate handle made of wood or stone inlaid with turquoise and shell.\n\nOther times, the flint was represented deified bristling with teeth or fangs and jaws with one eye.\n\nA knife found in the Templo Mayor of Tenochtitlan, shows a profile of a face that presumably represents the carrier of the tecpatl year(a minor deity). Its teeth and eyes were accented with inlaid white flint and obsidian, a volcanic rock. As it is a sacred sacrificial knife it is symbolically related to Mictlan, the lower part of the universe where the emaciated beings live . Mictlan was associated with the color black and the tecpatl (sacrificial knife). This knife is associated with the black god Tezcatlipoca, who embodies an obsidian knife representing the black wind. As sacrificial knife, it is also associated with the North (the direction of death) and the flayed\ngod Xipe Totec.\n\nThe knife inserted into the nasal cavity symbolizes \"cut the air\", which is a vital element in symbolizing death. The tongue in the form of an obsidian knife (tecpatl) exposed to outside, indicates the need to be fed with the magical substance that was human blood flowing from the heart.\n\nIn excavations of the Templo Mayor, 33 skull-masks representing Mictlantecuhtli (god of death) were found; made out of the rostral portion of human skulls, adorned with shell and pyrite to represent the eyes, and sacrificial knives to simulate nose and tongue.\n\nIn the Codex Borbonicus, Xolotl's tongue is made out of flint and he is carrying another knife with his right hand. Tlaltecuhtli (Lord of the Earth), is found in various sculptures and manuscripts, with tecpatl representing the tongue of the deity. In the Sun Stone, the tongue of the central face of Tonatiuh is a tecpatl. In the Codex Borgia, Mictlantecuhtli (lord of the underworld) appears as an active sacrificer armed with an ax or a técpal, ready to draw the hearts of his victims, his nose and tongue accuse the form of sharp knives.\n\nThe Tecpatl was in the middle of Aztec mythology, it is in the center of the Sun Stone, and it was instrumental in the ritual to bring out the heart of the sacrificial victim, which allowed light to reach the heart of the victim and therefore, was a mediator between life and death, between the divine realm and the human, between heaven, earth and the underworld. Since flint had the potential to make fire, it was considered an expression of celestial starlight on earth.\n"}
{"id": "30614884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30614884", "title": "Temple of All Religions", "text": "Temple of All Religions\n\nThe Temple of All Religions (, ) or the Universal Temple () is a unique architectural complex in the Staroye Arakchino Microdistrict of Kazan, Tatarstan, Russia. It consists of several types of religious architecture including an Orthodox church, a mosque, and a synagogue, among others. It is currently under construction since 1992, started by local artist and philanthropist Ildar Khanov. The structure serves as a cultural center and a residence for Khanov and his assistants.\n\nKhanov is known for his efforts in the treatment of alcoholism, drug addiction, and various other diseases. His former and current patients help him to maintain and develop the Temple, either by direct involvement in the construction work or through sponsorship.\n\nThe structure is not an active temple of any religion, but rather, as Khanov describes its mission, a \"temple of culture and truth\". It has become a popular landmark in the city of Kazan, which takes pride in the peaceful combination of different cultures (Islamic Tatar culture, Orthodox Russian, and others). The Temple is visited both by tourists and by people seeking Khanov's help.\n\nKhanov says that eventually the structure will have 16 cupolas, corresponding to the 16 major world religions including past religions that are no longer practiced.\n\n"}
{"id": "34921642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34921642", "title": "The Huron Feast of the Dead", "text": "The Huron Feast of the Dead\n\nThe Huron Feast of the Dead was a mortuary custom of the Wyandot people of what is today central Ontario, Canada, which involved the disinterment of deceased relatives from their initial individual graves followed by their reburial in a final communal grave.\nA time for both mourning and celebration, the custom became spiritually and culturally significant.\n\nEarly in the custom's development, as whole villages moved to a new location, other Wyandot would travel to join them in arranging mass reburials of their dead, who were transported to the new location. The people would take dead bodies out of their first graves and clean the remains in preparation for reburial in a new location. Customs evolved over the centuries as populations migrated and increased. They continued to follow traditional beliefs about the afterlife. The arrival of Europeans added new aspects to the process. The Huron adopted a practice of exchanging material gifts as a central part of these festivals. Some among the Wyandot criticized these practices. The French missionary Jean de Brébeuf discussed such a ceremony which he saw in 1636 at the Wyandot capital of \"Ossossané.\" (now in Simcoe County, Ontario). Twentieth-century archeological excavations revealed and confirmed information about these traditions.\n\nIn the twelfth and thirteenth centuries, Wyandot communities rapidly expanded in population and in the territory they occupied. Settlements were small compared to later standards and their ossuaries were small. Ceremonies were carried out independently as each village would separately rebury their dead when they moved. In contrast to later examples, no ossuary ever held more than thirty individuals. The survivors left modest grave offerings made of non-durable materials. Burials were communal, a characteristic that persisted as other aspects of Wyandot culture changed.\n\nBy the 1500s Wyandot population growth began to stabilize. With this demographic change, well before European arrival, the traditional mortuary customs started evolving into what are more recognizable as Feasts of the Dead. With the increase of population, it became the norm to wait for a period of several years between the first and the second burial. This change considerably increased the size of the ossuaries, as the extended period meant that graves held several hundred individuals.\n\nHuron communities changed the location of their village every ten to fifteen years. They believed that they had to protect their dead when they moved, and they started to rebury them every time a large village migrated. The ceremonies occurred at the end of the winter months, before the Huron had to undertake tasks associated with agriculture and spring hunting. The symbolism of the end of winter and start of spring fit into their beliefs that separated the living and the dead.\n\nBy the period when the Wyandot migrated to Wendake (on the south shore of Georgian Bay in modern-day Simcoe and Grey counties in Ontario), these mortuary rituals came to represent the unity and friendship of Wyandot bands. Multiple villages would gather together for combined ceremonies and to exchange gifts. The exchange of gifts and the symbolism of a united burial ground became defining elements of the Feasts of the Dead.\n\nGabriel Sagard, a French missionary writing in the 1620s, described the purpose of the rituals:\n\nThese ceremonies of remembrance and celebration fostered a sense of community among the people. They continued as an important community building practice through the seventeenth century.\n\nContact with Europeans introduced new goods and materials that were extremely useful in everyday life. The acquisition of these goods transformed Wyandot society and by extension, the nature of their mortuary customs as well. In the pre-contact era, material grave offerings had been minimal, but the quantity and quality of material goods offered to the deceased became a sign of reverence. Significant grave offerings were expected as they demonstrated the generosity and wealth of the giver, as well as theoretically guaranteeing the goodwill of the deceased souls.\n\nThis increase was not only due to the circulation of European goods of more durable materials. Archaeological excavations and historical accounts indicate that it became customary to offer a great number of Indigenous items too. The fur trade increased the circulation of goods between native groups, and new tools facilitated craftsmanship. The people used their new material wealth to demonstrate devotion to the most sacred of traditional customs.\n\nThe feast had evolved into a way to strengthen alliances, but after European contact, this became all the more important. It was customary to invite friends and relatives from other tribes to promote Huron unity. All communities were warned when a feast was to take place, and the dead were transported from great distances so friends and relatives could be buried together.\n\nMembers of other native groups were often invited, in order to confirm powerful bonds, but combined burials among different tribes were rare. It was in this period that the Feasts of the dead were most impressive. The ties were reaffirmed by many gifts, and the presence of foreigners encouraged the Huron to impress their visitors. This change in customs both encouraged and required the fur trade, as the process of renewal of alliances was a key part of the Feasts. In 1636 French missionaries were invited to a ceremony to ally with, and impress, the Europeans. There was also a secondary motivation to confirm the ties that maintained the fur trade.\n\nJean de Brébeuf, a Jesuit missionary, was invited in the spring of 1636 to a large Feast of the Dead outside the village of \"Ossossané,\" the capital of Wendake. His first-person account provided insight into contemporary Huron mortuary customs and has remained the most cited source on the topic. The Huron dispersal occurred in 1650, following epidemics, and conflict with the more powerful Iroquois Confederacy. Their cultural traditions changed after this upheaval. Brébeuf's account is a unique view of a notable feast that occurred at the height of Huron mortuary customs just before their rapid decline.\n\nThe Feast of the Dead took place over a period of ten days. During the first eight days, the participants gathered and prepared the bodies for the reburial. Relatives of the deceased took out their remains, and the corpses, in various degrees of putrefaction, were clothed with beaver robes. Flesh and skin were removed from the corpses and the bones were individually cleaned. They were wrapped again in another set of beaver furs. Generally women carried out this task, and any sign of revulsion was traditionally discouraged.\nWrapped in fur packages, the bones were returned to the homes of relatives, where a feast was held in memory of the dead. Gifts and offerings were placed next to these packages, and visitors were welcomed and treated generously. This was a time to feast, and gather the food and offerings to be used for the main burial event.\n\nThe village leader announced when all families should transport the bodies. The journey to the new site was often long (possibly several days) and was a time for public mourning, punctuated by sharp cries of the participants. When the chief decided and everyone was present, all would gather around the burial pit for the main ceremony.\nBrébeuf described the scene:\n\nHe noted there were 15 to 20 baptized Huron among the dead (rings with Christian symbols were later found at the site.) That evening, the bodies were lowered into the pit with three kettles, which were to help the souls reach the after life. If a bundle fell, it was time for everything else (bundles, gifts, corn, wooden stakes and sand) to be thrown in as well. As the pit was filled and covered over, the crowds screamed and sang. Brébeuf described the scene as emotional and chaotic, representing the Huron’s perception of mortality and life in general.\n\nThe following and final morning consisted of gift giving among the living; it was a time for celebration. Those who had made the journey were thanked, and ties were reaffirmed.\n\nA high rate of mortality from infectious European diseases and warfare due to the fur trade increased the frequency and size of the Feasts of the Dead until the Wyandot dispersal in the middle of the seventeenth century. The last reported Feast of the Dead occurred in 1695. It was held jointly by the Wyandot and Ottawa nations.\n\nModern archaeology has revealed significant data about Huron mortuary customs. It has revealed otherwise unattainable details about pre-contact or undocumented burial sites. Archaeological evidence has also been used to verify claims made by Brébeuf about the 1636 feast.\n\nArchaeological finds from burial sites began in the early nineteenth century. Originally these finds were often accidental. As farmers moved into the region north of Lake Ontario, they unintentionally plowed up areas that had once been Huron ossuaries. The bones and grave goods had otherwise been untouched since they had been ritually buried. First amateurs, and later professionals documented the finds and conducted excavations. The gathered information has provided answers to several questions.\n\nPre-contact era finds have been used to interpret burial practices and understand how customs changed over the course of three centuries.\nComparison with more recent finds confirmed the continued evolution of mortuary customs.\n\nBetween 1947 and 1948, archaeologists from the Royal Ontario Museum uncovered the ossuary burial site of Ossossané, which Brébeuf had described in his account. Led by Kenneth E. Kidd, the excavation was hailed by contemporaries for its use of modern and efficient scientific techniques. These added to and confirmed knowledge of Huron feasts of the Dead. The 3-Inch method was a way to preserve the layers, and showed the order of individuals in graves and what burial goods were placed with them. The lavish nature of grave offerings was confirmed, as were other details from Brébeuf’s account. The Jesuit’s estimates concerning size of the pit, the scaffolding, and contents proved to be relatively accurate. Comparisons with older sites highlighted the evolution of these traditions. It also showed a dramatic decline in the average age of the dead, from 30 to 21, believed to be evidence of disease epidemics.\n\nThe 1947 excavation at Ossossané was carried out without any consultation with the Wyandot, which proved to be a later source of controversy.\n\nIn 1990, the U.S. Congress passed the Native American Graves Protection and Repatriation Act, which provided modern-day descendants of American native groups the right to demand the return of human remains from museums and other institutions. Its effects were felt in Canada as well. In 1999 the Royal Ontario Museum bowed to pressure and agreed to return the Ossossané remains to the Huron groups for reburial according to their traditions.\n\nThe ceremony was held in Midland Ontario, a few miles away from Brébeuf’s grave. The dispersed Wyandot peoples were reunited on the morning of August 29, 1999. The human remains were lowered into a pit, with the items that had been dug up by Kenneth Kidd and his team. These were covered by earth, over which cement was poured, to ensure the remains were never disturbed again.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3171366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3171366", "title": "Vira Nirvana Samvat", "text": "Vira Nirvana Samvat\n\nThe Vira Nirvana Samvat (era) is a calendar era beginning on 15 October 527 BCE. It commemorates the nirvana of Mahavira, the 24th Jain Tirthankara. This is one of the oldest system of chronological reckoning which is still used in India.\n\nThe earliest text to mention 527 BCE as the year of Mahavira's nirvana is Yati-Vrishabha's \"Tiloya-Pannatti\" (5th century CE). Subsequent works such as Jinasena's \"Harivamśa\" (783 CE) mention the Vira Nirvana era, and give the difference between it and the Shaka era (beginning in 78 CE) as 605 years and 5 months.\n\nOn 21 October 1974 the 2500th Nirvana Mahotsava was celebrated by the Jains throughout India. and overseas \n\nThe Jain year Vira Nirvana Samvat is obtained by adding 470 years to the Kartikadi Vikram samvat. For example, The Vira Nirvana Samvat 2544 started right after Diwali of October 20, 2017 on Vikram 2074, Kartika Krishna Amavasya (Chaitradi and Purnimanta). The new Chaitradiadi Vikram samvat (common in North India) starts seven months earier in Chaitra, thus during Chaitra-Kartika Krishna, the difference between Vikram and Vir Nivana samvat is 469 years.\n\nThe Jain business people traditionally started their accounting year from Diwali. The relationship between the Vir and Shaka era is given in Titthogali Painnaya and Dhavalaa by Acharya Virasena:\n\nThus the Nirvana occurred 605 years and 5 months before the Saka era.\n\nThe Jain calendar (Panchāng) is a lunisolar calendar, just like the traditional Vikarm or Saka calendars . The months based on the position of the Moon with respect to the Earth and it is adjusted by adding an extra month (adhika masa) once every three years, to coincide with the Sun to bring month in phase with the season. Its day or date which is known as Tithi, indicates the moon phase and the month indicates the approximate season of the solar year.\n\nThe lunisolar calendar has the following arrangement:\nA regular or normal year has 12 months; a leap year has 13 months.\nA regular or normal year has 353, 354, or 355 days; a leap year has 383, 384, or 385 days.\n\nThe average number of days in a month is 30 but the average number of days in a Lunisolar year is 354 and not 360 (12 months in a year) because it takes the Moon about 29.5 days (not 30 days) to complete the circle around the Earth. Hence one Tithi is eliminated in about duration of two months.\nThe Hebrew, Hindu lunar, Buddhist, and Tibetan calendars are all lunisolar, and so were the Japanese calendars until 1873 and the Chinese calendars until 1912.\n\nThe Islamic calendar is a pure Lunar Calendar because its date (Tithi) indicates the moon phase but its months are not in phase with the time of the solar year or the season. It does not adjust its calendar to coincide with the sun or the season. Hence no extra month is added every three years.\n\nThe Gregorian calendar (English CE) is a pure Solar Calendar and its date indicates the time of the solar season but not the moon phase.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12787589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12787589", "title": "Wabokieshiek", "text": "Wabokieshiek\n\nWabokieshiek (translated White Cloud, The Light or White Sky Light in English, though \"Waapakiishik\" in the Sauk language means \"White Sky\") (c. 1794 – c. 1841) was an important Native American of the Ho-Chunk (Winnebago) and Sauk tribes in 19th century Illinois, playing a key role in the Black Hawk War of 1832. Known as a medicine man and prophet, he is sometimes called the Winnebago Prophet.\n\nWabokieshiek was born as \"Poweshiek\" to a Sauk father and a Ho-Chunk mother in the vicinity of Prophetstown, Illinois, which is named after him. Like his father, he was considered a Sac chief, and was also very influential among the Ho-Chunk, and he was known for his promotion of a traditional way of life among the local tribes. However, his influence waned after he promised/prophesied to Sauk/Fox chief Black Hawk that the British and other tribes (such as the Ho-Chunk and Potawatomi) would aid him against the United States in what became the Black Hawk War, a prediction that proved false. At the end of the war, on August 27, 1832, Wabokieshiek was taken prisoner along with the remnant of Black Hawk's band. The prisoners were sent to Washington D.C. (meeting with Andrew Jackson) and then to Fort Monroe, Virginia in April, 1833. On June 5, 1833, they were sent back West to be released; Wabokieshiek and his son were released at Prairie du Chien, Wisconsin. After this time, he lived quietly until he died circa 1841.\n\nWabokieshiek is sometimes confused with Red Cloud, a Lakota chief, and Mahaska, an Ioway also called White Cloud.\n\n"}
{"id": "44035836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44035836", "title": "Yoga Alliance", "text": "Yoga Alliance\n\nYoga Alliance is a U.S.-based nonprofit membership trade and professional organization for yoga teachers. The organization is headquartered in Arlington, Virginia.\n\nRegistered Yoga Teacher, a title in the United States that designates a yoga teacher who has received a certain standard of yoga teacher training at a Registered Yoga School, is offered by the Yoga Alliance at the 200-, 300- and 500-hour levels. As of 2007, there were 9,940 yoga teachers who had met the criteria needed to be registered with Yoga Alliance.\n\nAccording to the Yoga Alliance, the Yoga Alliance Registry is a voluntary credentialing system. The teacher registry is not a certification program, but a listing of teachers who meet Yoga Alliance's Requirements for teaching experience and have completed their training at a Registered Yoga School.\n"}
